Remember the days when Bitcoin used to move a lot? Lately, it hardly does anything and has been stuck in the 400s forever. Until today. Briefly, the digital currency hit $500 before falling down. Bigger picture, Bitcoin looks really stable these days. Bitcoinwisdom FREE AppDownload
US search engine Google has overtaken rival technology titan Apple as the world's top brand in terms of value, global market research agency Millward Brown said Wednesday. Google's brand value shot up 40 percent in a year to $158.84 billion (115 billion euros), Millward Brown said in its 2014 100 Top BrandZ report. "Google has been extremely innovative this year with Google Glass, investments in artificial intelligence and a range of partnerships," said Benoit Tranzer, the head of Millward Brown France. Google Glass is Internet-linked eyewear for which the firm has joined hands with Luxottica, a frame giant behind Ray-Ban and other high-end brands, to sell the new product in the United States. "All these activities send a very strong signal to consumers about the essence of Google," Tranzer said. Apple, which dominated the top position for three straight years, saw its brand value fall by 20 percent to $147.88 billion. The top 10 of the 100 slots were dominated by US firms. IBM was in third place at $107.54 billion, a fall of 4 percent, followed by Microsoft at $90.19 billion -- a 29 percent rise. Fast food chain McDonald's ranked next at $85.71 billion, followed by Coca Cola ($80.68 billion), it said. China led in the insurance sector with Ping An valued at $12.4 billion and China Life ($12 billion). French luxury goods manufacturer Louis Vuitton ranked 30th overall but was the top luxury brand with a value of more than $25 billion. Brand value is calculated on the basis of the firms' financial performance and their standing among consumers. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
en.wikipedia.orgFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. The Key Concerns Among Vanguard Clients (Vanguard) Joe Davis, chief economist at Vanguard Investment Strategy Group, says the two key client concerns center on the outlook for stocks and duration risk when it comes to fixed income. "So we’ve seen a very significant performance in the United States," says Davis on the U.S. equity market. "It’s generally been consistent with our outlook even several years ago, returns have significantly outperformed bonds. But then the key question is, are we overvalued or so forth? …You know, we still remain optimistic on the equity market but we find ourselves stressing the importance of rebalancing overseas, where if anything the valuations at the margin are a little bit more compelling than the U.S." On the fixed income side, "either shedding duration risk and getting much shorter portfolios," and questions about having bonds at all were the biggest concerns, Davis said.  Larry Fink: 'As An Industry We Have To Stop Focusing On The Moment' (FA Mag)  BlackRock chairman Larry Fink said financial advisors need to shift their clients' focus away from news that impacts stocks in the short-term to their long-term investment goals, reports Ted Knutson at FA Mag. "The human condition focuses on the moment. We as an industry have to stop focusing on the moment,” Fink said. He is also thinking about whether advisors should look beyond just their fiduciary duty and returns for clients, to the impact that these investments have on the clients' home countries. The Demand For Gold Is Going Nowhere (The World Gold Council)  Gold prices fell 30% in 2013. Q1 data from the latest World Gold Council report shows that gold demand was steady at 1,074.5 tonnes. From the report: "Jewellery demand made moderate gains of 3% largely due to lower gold prices compared with Q1 2013 and seasonal factors, notably Chinese New Year, which contributed to record first-quarter jewelery demand in China. Movements within the investment space were more striking: net ETF flows were zero, compared with 177t of outflows in Q1 2013, while bar and coin investment unsurprisingly fell far short (-39%) of the record levels of demand seen a year ago. The net impact on Q1 investment demand was minimal: it was down by just 6t (2%) year-on-year." World Gold CouncilInternational Investors Like The Canadian Corporate Landscape (Gluskin Sheff) International investors seem to like the Canadian corporate landscape, writes Gluskin Sheff's David Rosenberg. "Foreign investors reduced their holdings of Canadian securities by $1.2 billion in March, to mark the first monthly divestment so far this year and only the second in the last nine month," according to Rosenberg. "…Government bond holdings also declined in March but this was offset by foreign investment in Canadian corporate bonds to keep net flows into Canadian bonds in the plus column in the month."  "The strong investment into Canadian corporate bonds and equities represents the international investor base holding constructive views of the Canadian corporate landscape with the weaker Canadian dollar provid[ing] a boost to domestic profit prospects, while the ongoing foreign divestment of government bond holdings is consistent with the vanishing yield premium on these debt securities as the BoC continues to remain stuck in neutral." Wells Fargo Advisors Join Raymond James (The Wall Street Journal) Robert J. Wood, Carlton Brown, and Robert J. Wood Jr. have left Wells Fargo to join Raymond James Private Client Group, reports Corrie Driebusch at the WSJ. The trio together generated $2 million a year in fees and commissions at Wells Fargo. FREE AppDownload
Students of economics 101 are taught that economic recoveries come with rising interest rates, which means bond prices are falling. This is why people are a bit confounded by the fact that interest rates have remain subdued five years into the current recovery. However, you'd actually have a hard time seeing a pattern of rising rates during recoveries in recent history. Jan Loeys of JP Morgan's global asset allocation team explains. "Bonds tend to have a hard time selling off if central banks are not tightening," he said. "The steadily lower growth rates over the last 3 recoveries have induced steadily lower policy rates, which in turn have created faster and a greater number of asset bubbles that have been imploding before inflation has a chance to accelerate and central banks can move into a tight stance." Things just aren't as simple as you're taught in entry-level economics. "Chart 2 shows how in the last 3 cycles, US bond yields are no longer rising through the economic expansion." Take one look at this chart and you'll appreciate that the relationship between interest rates (like the 10-year Treasury yield) and economic growth is not a simple one. JP Morgan FREE AppDownload
I bet that, like me, when you’ve donated to charity you’ve had a slightly queasy feeling. You probably wrestled with questions like: Will my donation do any good? Is the charity well run? Is this the most effective way I can help a cause I care about? I’m actually now feeling more confident about being an effective donor, thanks to help I just received from Warren Buffett, Patrick Dempsey, Cal Ripken Jr., Ben &amp; Jerry and — most of all — Northeastern University Professor Rebecca Riccio, director of the school’s Social Impact Lab.  I was one of 7,500 students who enrolled in Riccio’s terrific, six-week Giving With Purpose MOOC (Massively Open Online Course). Northeastern offered it in partnership with Doris Buffett’s (Warren’s sister) Learning by Giving Foundation, through theEdX MOOC platform.(MORE: How to Check Out a Charity) What Giving With Purpose MeansGiving with purpose, Riccio told us, “means achieving two distinct, but highly compatible goals" — to satisfy your personal motivations for giving and to give money to high-performing organizations where it can make a real difference. Riccio finished each class interviewing all-star philanthropists including the ones I mentioned. “We set a high bar for who we wanted to interview,” says Riccio. “It wasn’t enough to be rich, famous and generous. It was very important that the guest speakers had something meaningful to say and were strategic in their giving.” Buffett's View on PhilanthropyWarren Buffett, of course, has persuaded 127 billionaires to give away more than half their wealth. But in the MOOC, he had a tip for the rest of us: When you’re deciding where to donate your money or time, Buffett said, “the important thing is that you feel good about it when you’ve done it.” He conceded that evaluating nonprofits can be tough. “Business is easy, because the market tells you whether you’re right or wrong. But with philanthropy, you can keep doing something that doesn’t make any sense and there’s no playback from the market,” Buffett said.(MORE: 6 Mistakes to Avoid When Giving to Charity) Measuring Charities With RISEYou’ll increase your chances of donating wisely, though, if you find ones that score well on something Riccio invented, known as the RISE framework. RISE stands for: Relevance  — This includes how well the group: articulates and understands the need it’s addressing; knows what works in response to the need; is connected to the community or individuals it serves and does work that has meaning to you, the prospective donor Impact — This includes how well the group: explains its results and holds itself accountable as well as whether supporting it will let you make a difference with your resources (money, time or both) Sustainability — This includes how well the group: has defined its business model; has demonstrated it has reliable revenue sources now and into the future; shows it manages its money effectively and fits into your personal giving plan. One of Riccio’s tips to measure sustainability: Read a nonprofit’s tax return known as Form 990. You can get it online either from the group’s site or on sites of charity raters, such as Guidestar or Charity Navigator.Excellence in Management and Operations — This includes: how well-qualified the executive director and board members are; how informative and professional the group’s marketing materials are and whether you’ve done your own due diligence Once you’ve put a nonprofit under the RISE microscope, you’ll have a stronger sense of whether it deserves your donations.(MORE: A Charity Expert's Tips on Giving Wisely) Think of Donating Like You're Investing“Ultimately, I’d like people to think of their charitable giving as an investment in the change they’d like to see in the world,” Riccio told me. “Just as if you’re investing in a company and want to feel confident it will determine the financial returns you’re looking for, when you invest in a nonprofit, you should try to see if it will deliver the social returns you’re looking for.” Riccio wouldn’t say how well nonprofits do, overall, on the RISE scale. “What I can say is that organizations that seem to be making a real diference and achieving financial sustainability typically score very high,” she says. What You May Have Trouble FindingAs part of the MOOC homework, I needed to evaluate nonprofits on the RISE scale and was surprised — no, disappointed — by how few provided the kind of specifics about their financials and staffing that would let prospective donors make informed decisions. “I don’t think they’re hiding things,” Riccio says. “I think because many donors don’t realize how important it is to look at that information, there hasn’t been much demand for it. The demand has come for more of the anecdotal stories — the things that pull on our heartstrings.” Riccio would like to see nonprofits do better providing prospective donors with what investors would call their fundamentals. Me too. The Snapshot 2014 survey of 240 nonprofits by America’s Charities —a coalition of charities — found that only 53 percent think it’s very important to deliver financial and other key information on their website. Riccio says charity raters — such as Charity Navigator, the Better Business Bureau’s Wise Giving Alliance, Give Well and Charity Watch — “provide an incredibly valuable service” to help you choose where to donate. But, she says, you need to scrutinize the raters, too. “I encourage people to use these evaluators, but to recognize the strengths and limitations of them. They all have their own methodology and worldview," says Riccio. "Before you use their data, it’s important to understand where they’re coming from and what they value.” Nuanced View of Nonprofit SalariesRiccio urges donors not to be dismissive of charities merely because they pay their executives significant salaries or have fairly high overhead. “We have placed extraordinary expectations on what the nonprofit sector should be doing to care for our most vulnerable populations and yet we somehow want them to do that on the cheap,” she says. Be a Sustained GiverShe also encourages you to be a sustained giver — making regular, repeated donations to the same groups that you want to help.  (You may have just heard your local public radio station’s spring pledge drive urging you to become a sustaining member, perhaps ad nauseum.) Being a sustained giver, “helps nonprofits have a reliable income and gives them confidence to take a longer-term view of how they’d like their programs to work over the years,” says Riccio. “A lot of the work nonprofit organizations do takes time to see results. By sustaining an organization for the long haul and providing a reliable source of support, you’re giving them the breathing room it takes and they won’t be as subject to fluctuations in funding that can force them to stop and start programs.” Taking the Next Giving With Purpose MOOCIf you’re interested in enrolling in the next Giving With Purpose MOOC, which will probably be offered next spring, join the mailing list of the Northeastern Social Impact Lab or the Learning by Giving Foundation. Then you’ll get the details.  Incidentally, the students in the MOOC evaluated 29 nonprofits that classmates nominated and the ones with the best RISE scores will receive Giving With Purpose grants totaling $100,000 or more. I’m glad to know the money will go to charities with proven effectiveness and hope you’ll find — and give to — worthy nonprofits that you think RISE above others. This story was originally published by Next Avenue. FREE AppDownload
Salesforce.com just revealed a beat-the-street quarter and said it expects to do better next quarter and next year. But one startling statistic is just how much the company is spending on stock options for its employees: $578 million against full year expected revenue of $5.29 billion. It expects stock to account for 88 cents per share next quarter, the biggest contributing factor to the 47-49 cents per share loss it expects to post, it said. Revenue came in at $1.23 billion, up 37% over the year-ago quarter and better than what analysts expected at $1.209 billion. Non-GAAP Earnings per share were $0.11. Analysts expected $0.10. One reason for the big stock expense: Salesforce is by far the biggest tech employer in San Francisco, with about 4,000 employees in the area. And it is leasing not one, but two new towers currently under construction in San Francisco to hire many more, at least another 1,000 this year alone, the company tells us. On a GAAP basis, the company posted a loss of $0.16 per share. This largely thanks to $131 million in stock-based compensation expense in the quarter, up from $115 million in stock awards in the year-ago quarter. The company also raised guidance for the quarter and year. Revenue for next quarter will be in the range of $1.285 billion to $1.290 billion, with non-GAAP EPS of 11-12 cents and a GAAP loss of 12 cents to 13 cents per share. That compares to the average estimates of $1.27 billion and 12 cents. For the year, the company expects to hit revenue of $5.30 billion to $5.34 billion, an increase of 30% to 31% year-over-year. Non-GAAP EPS is expected to be 49-51 cents and, as we mentioned, a GAAP loss of -47-49 cents is expected.  The full year numbers are better than analysts estimates of $5.29 billion and 50 cents non-GAAP EPS. The stock is up slightly in after-hours trading. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Cathal McNaughtonA man walks through a field of maize, planted under a film of biodegradable plastic which raises the soil temperature at the start of the season, near the city of Londonderry May 19, 2014. There wasn't anything on the economic data calendar today. But some bad news from retailers and some hawkish words from Fed officials kept things interesting today. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
The 10 highest-paying work from home jobs. Here’s how Apple’s newest iPads compare to their biggest competitors. Surprising differences between Apple people and Microsoft people. A beginner’s guide to money laundering.
Dick's Sporting GoodsDick's Sporting Goods is expanding clothing offerings for women.  The company plans to open specialty stores for women in its existing retail locations. "Think a colorful wall of sports bras, vibrant tables filled with color coded tees/tanks, and racks organized by specific needs, like running jackets and yoga pants," the company told Business Insider in an email. "Accessories will also have a designated space, so women can match everything from their socks, to their gym bags, to their headbands." The expanded product offerings will also be online. With the advent of brands like Lululemon, Gap's Athleta, and Under Armour, demand for women's athletic apparel is soaring like never before.  But the brand faces a ton of competition from retailers who have already established themselves with female clientele.  The mounting competition has even begun to threaten Lululemon, long seen as the paramount purveyor of fitness clothing for women.  In an earnings conference call with analysts, Dick's CEO Ed Stack said that the women's business has the most growth potential of any segment. He also cited youth and footwear as growth opportunities.  The company also has the advantage of partnerships with mega-brands like Adidas, Nike, and Under Armour.  Dick's shares are tanking following disappointing sales numbers. The company said that weak golf and hunting sales led to the decline.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Toby MelvilleBank of England Governor Mark Carney (R) chats with deputy Governor Charlie Bean.LONDON (Reuters) - Low levels of volatility in financial markets are "eerily reminiscent" of the run-up to the financial crisis even as central banks face the challenge of unwinding their huge stimulus programs, a Bank of England policymaker said. But BoE deputy governor Charlie Bean also said in a speech that a combination of better-capitalized banks, lower leverage levels and more powers for regulators to deal with troubled lenders meant "the risk of major financial problems crystallizing in the advanced countries should be much lower." (Writing by William Schomberg) FREE AppDownload

REUTERS/Carlos BarriaIn China, Putin said that "Russia firmly places China at the top of its foreign trade partners." Ukraine is in crisis amid Russian meddling, and Putin is looking East as the West threatens more sanctions. The situation is good for China, which can benefit from Russia's raw materials and Western inaction. Geopolitical expert Ian Bremmer of the Eurasia Group explained how Beijing is making the most of the climate. "[China is] the big winner from the Ukraine crisis — everybody wants to work with them," Bremmer told Business Insider in an email. "I’d say not only are they ignoring U.S./E.U. sanctions, they’re actually taking advantage of them." And strategically, China is in a position to make aggressive moves against the interests of nearby countries that are not strong U.S. allies — much like Russia is doing in Ukraine. "The U.S. has a treaty that directly commits the Americans to defend Japan in the case of an attack; that’s not the case with Vietnam. The U.S. isn’t as directly committed (the recent U.S.-Philippines announcement of tighter military cooperation notwithstanding), and China sees that they can push more militarily against non-U.S. allies (as the Russians have in Ukraine, for example) without much pushback. " Bremmer noted that while tensions in the South China Sea are deepening, the U.S. has had some success: President Obama's recent trip to Japan reaffirmed America's strong presence in the region at a time when relations between Beijing and Tokyo are becoming more functional. Obama accomplished this by emphasizing American support for Tokyo and "diminishing the opportunity for China to drive a wedge between Japan and the U.S," Bremmer said. "That’s what Obama needed to accomplish in Japan. I’d say the effort has been successful." Nevertheless, fundamental problems remain. America's indictment of five Chinese military hackers is the latest signal that relations may be contentious as events evolve in Ukraine and the South China Sea. "The biggest structural problem between the U.S. and China is that the two countries are at war with each other over cyber," Bremmer told BI. "That’s ebbed greatly of late given the change in the Obama second term administration (away from the pivot) and the Snowden scandal making it harder for the U.S. to play offense on China publicly on cyber. But the confrontation is surely growing. And this is an indication." FREE AppDownload
Jamie McCaffrey via FlickrHousing data has been very weak in recent months, reeling from the impact of the cold winter and because of elevated mortgage rates. Supply and affordability have also weighed on new home sales. Economists have been slashing their housing forecasts recently following the deteriorating data. Even Federal Reserve chair Janet Yellen has expressed concern about the housing recovery as well. But with the weather warming up and mortgage rates declining, some economists expect the housing recovery to get back on track. This week we get existing and new home sales data that should show a modest improvement. Existing home sales are expected to rise 2.2% month-over-month to an annualized pace of 4.69 million. Moreover, the pending home sales index increased modestly in March, and the series leads existing home. New home sales are expected to rise 10.7% MoM to an annualized pace of 425,000. This comes after a dramatic 14.5% fall the previous month.  A key thing to note is that the mortgage applications purchase index has been trending up since early March. Here's a chart from Jim O'Sullivan, chief economist at High Frequency Economics. HFEPaul Diggle at Capital Economics also points to the jump in April housing starts, that should "ease fears that the recent soft patch in housing market activity will turn into an extended slowdown." Taking April's data along with the gains we've seen in February and March, Diggle writes that starts are up 26.4% over the past year and "have made up pretty much all of their earlier losses relating to the severe winter weather." Housing starts are below the 1.5 million level needed to meet demand from household formation and he thinks there is scope for starts to rise more. Unlike the increasing Wall Street consensus that housing won't contribute as much to GDP growth, Diggle writes that "this suggests that, following negative contributions in the past two quarters, residential investment will be a tailwind for GDP growth again soon." He also isn't too alarmed by the modest decline in homebuilder confidence. "Previous similar run-ups and subsequent moderations in homebuilder confidence have not signalled the end of recoveries in housing starts," he writes. And then there's the 0.7% rise in the Fed's measure of closed mortgages — where you can't refinance the loan or renegotiate it. "That partly reflects rising house prices and higher loan-to-value ratios increasing the value of the typical mortgage application, to a record high of $277,500 in April. That’s above the peak of $250,000 reached during the boom years," writes Diggle. And the average FICO credit score of newly approved mortgages was 725 in March, down from 750 a year ago (although it's above the average of 690) — something we previously discussed. Diggle admits that not all the data has been positive but he thinks the housing market is "bouncing back from its weather- related lull," and "that’s consistent with the fundamentals of an undervalued and affordable market, and means that the housing market is unlikely to experience the extended weak period that Yellen fears." FREE AppDownload
williams_jt / FlickrEach of the major stock market indexes has fallen to their worst levels of the session over the last hour, as the Nasdaq has forfeited most all of its gains from yesterday.  The Dow is down 150 points (0.9%), the S&amp;P 500 is down 16 points (0.8%) and the Nasdaq is down 32 points (1.0%). No major economic data was released this morning, but two Fed Presidents, William Dudley of the New York Fed and Richard Plosser of the Philadelphia Fed, made speeches today.  In his speech, Dudley said he would favor continuing reducing the Fed's monthly asset purchases by $10 billion and said with respect to interest rates that his, "current thinking is that the pace of tightening will probably be relatively slow." Plosser was more hawkish, saying that if the Fed continues its pace of reductions and the economy continues improving, the Fed could find itself, "still trying to increase accommodation in an environment in which history suggests that policy should perhaps be moving in the opposite direction." Plosser also said that if inflation moves closer to the Fed's 2% target, it could warrant raising rates sooner rather than later.  Retail stocks are also broadly lower after a number of disappointing earnings reports.  Industrial bellwether Caterpillar this morning disclosed that on a three month rolling basis, its machine sales in Asia are down 25% as of the end of April.   FREE AppDownload
APFourteen Democratic senators today announced a legislative fix to stop American companies from easily shifting their tax base overseas.  Their proposal came in the wake of the drug company Pfizer's well-publicized attempt to shift its tax incorporation from the United States to what critics have labeled a "tax shelter" in the United Kingdom. (Pfizer's "final" offer to the British company AstraZeneca was reportedly rejected Monday.) Led by Michigan Senator Carl Levin, the group introduced the Stop Corporate Inversions Act of 2014 to "significantly reduce a tax loophole" that allows companies to use partial foreign ownership to relocate to countries with lower corporate tax rates. “These transactions are about tax avoidance, plain and simple,” Levin said in a statement. “Our legislation would clamp down on this loophole to prevent corporations from shifting their tax burden onto their competitors and average Americans while Congress is considering comprehensive tax reform.” Under Levin’s plan, U.S. businesses attempting to buy a foreign company and relocate their headquarters for tax purposes must meet a higher threshold of stock owned by the foreign firm. Currently, according to Levin's office, a company only needs 20% foreign ownership to relocate to the other country for tax purposes. Levin wants to raise that to 50%. The legislation would also bar companies from shifting tax residence offshore "if their management and control and significant business operations remain in the United States." A group of nearly one dozen House Democrats released a plan in the House today that aligns with Levin's. Levin's plan mirrors one contained in the budget proposal released by President Barack Obama earlier this year. Along with a plan put forward by Rep. Dave Camp, the Republican chair of the House Ways and Means Committee, Obama's budget was one of two proposals to overhaul the tax code released this year. However, despite apparent bipartisan support for tax reform, few observers believe any significant changes will be made to the tax code until after the midterm elections. In his statement, Levin characterized his bill as an intermediary step that could be taken while more comprehensive tax reform remains tabled.    "The Treasury is bleeding red ink, and we can’t wait for comprehensive tax reform to stop the bleeding," he said. However, according to Bloomberg, which first reported Levin's proposal, the bill has little chance of passing because Republicans believe any changes to the tax code must be considered as part of a wider tax reform. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike SegarAmerica is undergoing a twin energy boom. You may have heard about the shale revolution, which helped make natural gas plants the No. 1 new energy source in the U.S. last year. Though not on the same scale, the rise of solar energy has been just as impressive. New photovoltaic and concentrated solar installations constituted the second-largest source of new energy in 2013, and the number of solar jobs in the U.S. climbed 20%, according to The Solar Foundation, making it one of the fastest-growing industries in the country. With nearly a quarter of the residential installation market, Elon Musk's SolarCity has been at the vanguard of this movement, thanks to its leasing model and its financing strategy, which includes things like solar-backed bonds.  Still, as GigaOm's Katie Fehrenbacher reports, this could have been an opportunity that an established energy player like GE could have tapped — and GE is now acknowledging as much. She writes: At the World Energy Innovation Forum at the Tesla factory in Fremont, Calif. this week, the CEO of GE, Jeff Immelt, said during an onstage interview that GE had focused so intently on how bad the solar panel business was that they “missed SolarCity.” “My God I wish I had thought of that,” said Immelt. In its latest earnings presentation, SolarCity says it now expects to install a full gigawatt's worth of solar — or up t0 1 million homes — by 2015. FREE AppDownload
YouTubeEvery year Bill Ackman's hedge fund, Pershing Square, sponsors an investment idea contest. The winners get $100,000 and all the street cred that comes with impressing one of the world's top investors. This year three students at Columbia Business School, Oystein Kvaerner '15, Matt Ford '15, and Brian Waterhouse '15, claimed the prize for their long thesis on security firm, Allegion. The stock is currently at $49.92, and but they've set a price target of $77. The guys had collectively done four or five ideas previously, and really started digging into this in mid-March. That meant reading every transcript and contacting everyone in the industry they could find. They plan to donate a portion of their winnings to Columbia Business School. The rest will be used to pay tuition, get married — you know, the usual stuff.   FREE AppDownload
There are people who are leaders simply because of their position, and then there are leaders who are in their positions because they've earned them. You want to be in the latter camp. In anticipation of Memorial Day, the folks at finance career site OneWire released an interview with one of our nation’s greatest military leaders: Lieutenant General Joseph Anderson, Commanding General of Fort Bragg and the XVIII Airborne Division, and he shared some thoughts about how to know if you've earned the right to lead. But first, a little about the Lt. General. He assumed command of the XVIII Airborne Corps and Fort Bragg in June of 2013, after serving as commander of the 4th Infantry Division and Fort Carson, CO from November 2011 to March 2013. He has served tours in Iraq, Albania, and Kosovo, amongst others, and is currently deployed in Afghanistan. Anderson has received over twenty awards recognizing his service to his country, including the Legion of Merit with two Oak Leaf Clusters, Bronze Star Medal with four Oak Leaf Clusters, Defense Meritorious Service Medal, and the Meritorious Service Medal with silver Oak Leaf Cluster. In the interview, OneWire CEO Skiddy von Stade asks Lt. General Anderson to shed some light on the values and traits he looks for when evaluating potential military leaders…and there are a lot of factors. He specifically listed off 12 of the them. Watch the full interview below and visit OneWire’s YouTube channel to see the whole series.  FREE AppDownload
YouTube"Total Recall"General Motors just announced it is recalling an additional 2.42 million vehicles as part of four separate recalls. GM also said that it now expects to take a charge of approximately $400 million the second quarter, which includes the $200 million charge the company announced last week as part of a separate recall of 2.7 million cars. On Friday, GM was also handed its stiffest penalty yet from federal regulators, with the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration fining the company $35 million.  And according to CNBC's Phil LeBeau, as of mid-May GM has designated $1.7 billion in recall charges.  GM shares are down 1.4% to trade below $34 near noon.   From GM: In a continuing effort to quickly address emerging safety issues, General Motors announced today it is recalling about 2.42 million vehicles in four separate U.S. recalls. The recalls are for: There have been no fatalities associated with these recalls. Read the full announcement from GM here.  FREE AppDownload
We downloaded all Social Security name data since 1880 and adjusted the data to show only people still living today. We ended up with age distributions for every name in the database. Using the mode of each distribution we were able to determine the most likely age for anyone based on their name.  Produced by Sara Silverstein. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Rebecca Cook/ReutersIf you've bought Whole Foods Market stock anytime in the past two years, you're probably not very happy about what's happened. In a nutshell, one of the great growth stocks of the past 15 years has been an absolute dud, unless you decided to sell out last October. While the rest of the market was on a tear, Whole Foods' stock has fallen, as much as 41% if you bought at the peak. Instead of telling you why you should hold your shares -- I have no intention to sell mine -- I want to share an investing parallel from almost 40 years ago. A little context about the importance of patience and time will serve us all well in the interim. Let's talk about The Coca-Cola Company, and 1975.  Selling the world a Coke, but Mr. Market wasn't buying itBack in the '70s, Coca-Cola was already all over the world, but it was still relatively early in its expansion. Most of the world was much poorer than today, and consumer goods like Coca-Cola weren't either affordable or readily available to the masses. This is the Coke of the 1970s:   However, the stock market wasn't buying it: The Motley Fool We're talking about almost five years of being handily outperformed by by the market. This is by far a worse beating than Whole Foods investors like me have taken, and for a muchlonger period of time.  The Whole Foods/Coca-Cola parallelOn the surface, these don't seem to be very similar businesses at all -- I get that. But when you peel back the layers, there are a handful of characteristics that today's Whole Foods shares with 1975 Coca-Cola.  The market sentiment for Whole Foods right now is that the company's growth days and fat margins are long gone. Wal-Mart is making a big push into organics; Sprouts and other upstarts are all trying to take a slice from what has been a relatively unchallenged market for Whole Foods over the past 20 years. All of a sudden, it seems that the worst is happening.  In 1975, PepsiCo launched its "Pepsi Challenge" marketing campaign, and actually started taking market share from Coca-Cola. At one point in 1978, Pepsi's stock had actually gone up almost 50% while Coke shares were basically flat. However, Coca-Cola thebusiness would continue to sell its trademark product, produce profits, and expand sales both domestically and internationally over the half-decade that its stock was a loser. Here's what Coca-Cola stock has done since 1980: The Motley Fool   In short, we're talking about one of the best stocks to own over the past 35 years. An investment of $1,000 turned into $56,200, before dividends. With dividends, we are talking about turning a grand into more than $101,000. It gets even better: That $1,000 investment in 1980 would be paying about $1,600 in annual dividends today.  Think about that for a second: paying back 160% of your original investment to you, every single year! Whole Foods' advantage goes far beyond just fresh organics.  The long view is really hard to take The thing is, we're hard-wired to think that what's happening right now will keep happening. The result? It's hard to imagine that Whole Foods -- much like Coca-Cola back in 1975 -- is still a best-of-breed company, with raving fans of the brand and what it stands for. Businesses face competition all the time. Think about today: There's arguably more competition in most industries today than there has ever been. Yet corporate profits are higher than ever.  The point? Competition isn't always (or even usually) a death knell; especially for the excellent business with real advantages, like the power of its brand, the quality of its product, and the loyalty of its customers. And just like Coca-Cola for the past 120 years, Whole Foods Market has an enduring brand that engenders loyalty from its customers.  Foolish final thoughts Am I telling you that Whole Foods will be the once-in-a-generation stock that Coca-Cola was 35 years ago? Maybe not in so many words. But what I most certainly am saying is that -- even with increased competition -- Whole Foods is an undeniably well-run business with some very real -- and very durable -- advantages that its price-driven competitors won't be able to erode as easily as it seems.  If you've bought Whole Foods stock in the past couple of years, relax. It's been only a couple of years, and you still own the same portion of the same great business. Don't mistake Mr. Market's reaction for an indication that the business is failing. Plenty of investors did that with Coca-Cola, and you see what they missed.  John Mackey, co-CEO of Whole Foods Market, is a member of The Motley Fool’s board of directors. Jason Hall owns shares of and has options on Whole Foods Market, and also manages an account with shares of Coca-Cola. The Motley Fool recommends Coca-Cola, PepsiCo, and Whole Foods Market; owns shares of PepsiCo and Whole Foods Market; and has options on Coca-Cola. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days. We Fools don't all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. FREE AppDownload
Mark Wilson/Getty ImagesTourists pass a statue of a man listening to the radio during the Great Depression at the FDR Memorial in Washington, D.C.Benjamin Roth wasn't a professional writer or investor. But he wrote one of the most instructive investment books ever published. Roth, an Ohio lawyer, kept a diary during the Great Depression, writing several times per week from 1931 through the early 1940s. His son published it in 2010. The entries are rarely more than three sentences, but vividly describe life during America's worst economic tragedy. One entry from April 6, 1932 simply states, "Insanity and suicide among prominent business men is on the increase." Roth was fascinated with the stock market, and how smart people could be destroyed by it. He repeats, over and over again, a simple investing lesson obvious to everyone who lived through the depression: the incredible value of having ample cash in the bank. July, 1931: "Magazines and newspapers are full of articles telling people to buy stocks, real estate etc. at present bargain prices. They say that times are sure to get better and that many big fortunes have been built this way. The trouble is that nobody has any money." Aug., 1931: "I see now how very important it is for the professional man to build up a surplus in normal times. A surplus capital of $2500 wisely invested during the depression might have meant financial security for the rest of his life. Without it he is at the mercy of the economic winds." Dec., 1931: "It is generally believed that good stocks and bonds can now be bought at very attractive prices. The difficulty is that nobody has the cash to buy." Sep., 1932: "I believe it can be truly said that the man who has money during this depression to invest in the highest grade investment stocks and can hold on for 2 or 3 years will be the rich man of 1935." June, 1933: "I am afraid the opportunity to buy a fortune in stocks at about 10¢ on the dollar is past and so far I have been unable to take advantage of it." July, 1933: "Again and again during this depression it is driven home to me that opportunity is a stern goddess who passes up those who are unprepared with liquid capital." Aug., 1936: "This depression has indelibly impressed on my mind one thing, and that is the value of having on hand sufficient capital to cover emergencies. My experience as a lawyer shows that a large proportion of business failures are caused by lack of capital rather than by lack of technical business knowledge." May, 1937: "The greatest chance in a lifetime to build a fortune has gone and will probably not come again soon. Very few people had any surplus to invest—it was a matter of earning enough to buy the necessaries of life." Keep in mind what happened during this period. The Dow Jones fell 89% from 1929 to 1932, and unemployment shot to 25%. Those without enough cash to endure were forced to liquidate assets for pennies on the dollar. Then the market rose almost fivefold from 1932 to 1937 in the biggest five-year rally in history. Several blue-chip companies increased 10 or 20 times over. Those without cash (and guts) saw the greatest investment opportunity of their lives waltz right past them. This story repeats itself throughout history, just not as severe. During booms, all people care about is return, and complain about how worthless cash in the bank is, earning a puny yield. During a crash they realize that nothing is more precious than cash in the bank, even if you had to sit on it for years earning that puny yield. We're doing this again today. So many are livid that their cash in the bank earns no more than 0.01%, losing money every day to inflation. I think this is a terrible way to think about the value of cash, and it causes people to chronically underestimate its real worth. Cash doesn't earn much today, but it gives you options in the future. Over time, that potential can more than offset the dismal yield earned today. If earning 0.01% today allows you to become a financial vulture in a future market crash -- or avoid becoming a desperate seller -- then you're really earning far more than 0.01% on your cash today. It's hard to convince some people of this, because all they see is the advertised 0.01% return. But having options has real value. "Cash combined with courage in a crisis is priceless," Warren Buffet once said. Most investors have never heard of Arnold Van Den Berg, but he's one of the greatest investors of our time. Since 1974, Van Den Berg's fund has returned 14.5% a year, versus 11.9% a year in the S&amp;P 500. $1,000 invested in his fund in 1974 would be worth $196,000 today, versus $80,000 in the S&amp;P. On average, cash has made up more than 20% of Van Den Berg's assets, compared with closer to 5% for the typical mutual fund. He was once asked why, as a stock-picker, he hoards so much cash. "Think of it this way," he said. "If we sit in cash and wait for a $15 stock to get down to our $10 buy point, then when it eventually goes back up to $15, we get a 50 per cent return on our investment. We think this more than makes up for the few months or quarters we might have to wait in cash, even if cash paid no yield at all." When you come to terms with how common market volatility is, this attitude can be a huge advantage. "That cash you're holding today is the raw material of tomorrow's superior returns," Van Den Berg said. He understands what it took a depression for most to learn. For more, see: This article originally appeared at The Motley Fool.  Copyright 2014. Follow The Motley Fool on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
The Colbert ReportComedian Stephen Colbert dedicated a substantial part of his show Monday night to Democratic Massachusetts Senator Elizabeth Warren and what he mocked as her "commie" approach to economic policy. At one point during this very special episode of the "Colbert Report," the host played a clip of various pundits claiming Warren, an outspoken populist and consumer protection advocate, is "loathed" and "hated" on Wall Street. "It's just like the old Wall Street adage: 'If you don't have anything nice to say, it's probably about Elizabeth Warren," Colbert quipped.  "Now she's introduced the Bank on Students Emergency Loan Refinancing Act, a bill so socialist that socialist Senator Bernie Sanders praised it," he continued, displaying a photo of Sanders literally holding a hammer and sickle. "She's out-commie-ing the commie!" Colbert also had a lengthy  interview with Warren in which she touted her modest upbringing on the "ragged edge of the middle class." "Don't you try and out-humble me, okay?" Colbert interjected. "I will not be out-humbled. My father was an Appalachian turd miner, okay? Don't you dare." Colbert also addressed speculation Warren might run for president in 2016 by playing a series of clips in which she denied she is planning a White House bid. He followed this up by asking her the question again. "No, I'm not running for president," Warren said.  Watch Colbert's skits and interview featuring Warren below.     FREE AppDownload
Dick's Sporting Goods (DKS), one of the nation's largest golf retailers, this morning reported earnings and sales that disappointed, citing notable weakness in its golf and hunting segments.  Dick's shares are off more than 15% following its report. Shares of golf-club maker Callaway Golf (ELY) are also down about 4% following the report from Dick's.  Dick's CEO Edward Stack said the company expected a modest improvement in its golf segment during the first quarter, but instead saw declines. Same-store sales at its Golf Galaxy stores fell 10.4% during the quarter. In the prior year period, same-store sales at Golf Galaxy fell 11.8%.  "Our difficulties this quarter were isolated to two categories: golf and hunting. After a very challenging first quarter in golf last year, we expected some further headwinds and only modest improvement, but instead we saw a continued significant decline. In the case of hunting, we planned the business down based on last year's catalysts, but it was even weaker than expected," Stack said.  A report from GOLF 20/20 helps explain the pain. Total rounds played in February fell 4.6% from the prior year, with rounds played in the West North Central and Mid Atlantic regions, which endured historically cold and snowy winters, falling by more than half. golf2020.com  FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Heisenberg MediaIn April 2012 I wrote a blog post titled The 12 Crucial Questions About Stock Options. It was meant to be a comprehensive list of option-related questions you need to ask when you receive an offer to join a private company.  Based on the outstanding feedback I received from our readers on this and subsequent posts about options, I’m now expanding the original post a bit. I’ve done just a little updating and posed two new questions — hence the slight title change: The 14 Crucial Questions About Stock Options. Next time someone offers you 100,000 options to join their company, don’t get too excited. Over my 30-year career in Silicon Valley, I’ve watched many employees fall into the trap of focusing on the number of options they were offered. (Quick definition: A stock option is the right, but not the obligation, to buy a share of the company stock at some point in the future at the exercise price.) In truth, the raw number is a way that companies play on employees’ naiveté. What really matters is the percentage of the company the options represent, and the rapidity with which they vest. When you receive an offer to join a company, ask these 14 questions to ascertain the attractiveness of your option offer: 1. What percentage of the company do the options offered represent? This is the single most important question. Obviously, when it comes to options a larger number is better than a smaller number, but percentage ownership is what really matters. For example if one company offers 100,000 options out of 100 million shares outstanding and another company offers 10,000 options out of 1 million shares outstanding, then the second offer is 10 times as attractive. That’s right. The smaller share offer in this case is much more attractive because if the company is acquired or goes public then you will be worth 10 times as much (for anyone lacking in sleep or caffeine, your 1% share of the company in that latter offer trumps the 0.1% of the former). 2. Are you including all shares in the total shares outstanding for the purpose of calculating the percentage above? Some companies attempt to make their offers look more attractive by calculating the ownership percentage your offer represents using a smaller share count than what they could. To make the percentage seem bigger, the company may not include everything it should in the denominator. You’ll want to make sure the company uses fully diluted shares outstanding to calculate the percentage, including all of the following: It’s a huge red flag if a prospective employer won’t disclose their number of shares outstanding once you’ve reached the offer stage. It’s usually a signal that they have something they’re trying to hide, which I doubt is the kind of company you want to work for. 3. What is the market rate for your position?  Every job has a market rate for salary and equity. Market rates are typically determined by your job function and seniority and your prospective employer’s number of employees and location. We built our Startup Salary &amp; Equity Compensation Tool to help you determine what comprises a fair offer. 4. How does your proposed option grant compare to the market? A company typically has a policy that places its option grants relative to market averages. Some companies pay higher salaries than market so they can offer less equity. Some do the opposite. Some give you a choice. All things being equal, the more successful the company, the lower percentile offer they are usually willing to offer. For example, a company like Dropbox or Uber is likely to offer equity below the 50th percentile because the certainty of the reward and the likely magnitude of the outcome is so great in terms of absolute dollars. Just because you think you’re outstanding doesn’t mean your prospective employer is going to make an offer in the 75th percentile. Percentile is most determined by the employer’s attractiveness. You’ll want to know what your prospective employer’s policy is in order to evaluate your offer within the proper context. 5. What is the vesting schedule? The typical vesting schedule is over four years with a one-year cliff. If you were to leave before the cliff, you get nothing. Following the cliff, you immediately vest 25% of your shares and then your options vest monthly. Anything other than this is odd and should cause you to question the company further. Some companies might request five-year vesting, but that should give you pause. 6. Does anything happen to my vested shares if I leave before my entire vesting schedule has been completed?  Typically you get to keep anything you vest as long as you exercise within 90 days of leaving your company. At a handful of companies, the company has the right to buy back your vested shares at the exercise price if you leave the company before a liquidity event. In essence, this means that if you leave a company in two or three years, your options are worth nothing, even if some of them have vested. Skype and its backers came under fire last year for such a policy. 7. Do you allow early exercise of my options? Allowing employees to exercise their options before they have vested can be a tax benefit to employees, because they have the opportunity to have their gains taxed at long-term capital gains rates. This feature is usually only offered to early employees because they are the only ones who could benefit. 8. Is there any acceleration of my vesting if the company is acquired? Let’s say you work at a company for two years and then it gets acquired. You may have joined the private company because you didn’t want to work for a big company. If so, you would probably want some acceleration so you could leave the company after the acquisition. Many companies also offer an additional six months of vesting upon acquisition if you are fired. You wouldn’t want to serve a prison sentence at a company you’re not comfortable with, and, of course, a lay-off is not uncommon after an acquisition. From the company’s perspective, the downside of offering acceleration is the acquirer will likely pay a lower acquisition price because it might have to issue more options to replace the people who leave early. But acceleration is a potential benefit, and it’s a really nice thing to have. 9. Are options priced at fair market value determined by an independent appraisal? What is the exercise price relative to the price of the preferred stock issued in your last round? Venture capital-backed startups issue options to employees at an exercise price that’s a fraction of what the investors pay. If your options are priced near the value of the preferred stock, the options have less value. When you ask this question, you’re looking for a big discount. But a discount of more than 67% is likely to be looked upon unfavorably by the IRS and could lead to an unexpected tax liability because you would owe a tax on any gain that results from being issued options at an exercise price below fair market value. If the preferred stock was issued, say, at a value of $5 a share, and your options have an exercise price of $1 per share vs. the fair market value of $2 per share, then you’ll likely owe taxes on your unfair benefit — which is the difference between $2 and $1. 10. When was your proposed employer’s last common stock appraisal? Only boards of directors can technically issue options, so you will typically not know the exercise price of the options in your offer letter until your board next meets. If your proposed employer is private then your board must determine the exercise price of your options by what is referred to as a 409A appraisal (the name, 409A, comes from the governing section of the tax code). If it’s been a long time since the last appraisal, the company will have to do another one. Most likely that means your exercise price will go up, and, correspondingly, your options will be less valuable. 409A appraisals are typically done every six months. 11. What did the last round value the company at? The value tells you the context for how valuable your options could be. Common stock is not worth as much as preferred stock until your company is acquired or goes public, so don’t fall for a sales pitch that promotes the value of your proposed options at the latest preferred price.  Again it’s a huge red flag if a prospective employer won’t disclose the valuation from their financing once you’ve reached the offer stage. It’s usually a signal that they have something they’re trying to hide which I doubt is the kind of company you want to work for. 12. How long will your current funding last? Additional financings mean additional dilution. If a financing is imminent, then you need to consider what your ownership will be post-financing (i.e. including the new dilution) to make a fair comparison to the market. Refer back to question number one for why this is important. 13. How much money has the company raised? This might seem counterintuitive, but there are many instances where you are worse off in a company that has raised a lot of money vs. a little. The issue is one of Liquidity Preference. Venture capital investors always receive the right to have first call on the proceeds from the sale of the company in a downside scenario up to the amount they have invested (in other words priority access to any proceeds raised). For example, if a company has raised $40 million dollars then all proceeds will go to the investors in a sale of $40 million or less. Investors will only convert their preferred stock into common stock once the sale valuation is equal to the amount they invested divided by their ownership. In this example if investors own 50% of the company and have invested $40 million then they won’t convert into common stock until the company receives an offer of $80 million. If the company is sold for $60 million they’ll still get $40 million. However if the company is sold for $90 million they’ll get $45 million (the remainder goes to the founders and employees). You never want to join a company that has raised a lot of money and has very little traction after a few years because you are unlikely to get any benefit from your options. 14. Does your prospective employer have a policy regarding follow-on stock grants? As we explained in The Wealthfront Equity Plan, enlightened companies understand they need to issue additional stock to employees post-start-date to address promotions and incredible performance and as an incentive to retain you once you get far into your vesting. It’s important to understand under what circumstance you might get additional options and how your total options after four years might compare at companies that make competing offers.  For more perspective on this issue we encourage you to read An Employee Perspective on Equity. RSUs Almost every issue raised in this post is equally relevant to Restricted Stock Units or RSUs. RSUs differ from stock options in that with them you receive value independent of whether your employer’s company value increases or not. As a result employees tend to be given fewer RSU shares than they might receive in the form of stock options for the same job. RSUs are most often issued in circumstances when a prospective employer has recently raised money at a huge valuation (well in excess of $1 billion) and it will take them a while to grow into that price. In that case a stock option might not have much value because it only appreciates when and if your company’s value rises. We hope you find our new and improved list helpful. Please keep your feedback and questions coming and let us know if you think we missed anything. FREE AppDownload
We believe that the ultra-easy monetary policies of the major central banks might actually be keeping a lid on inflation. That’s not what we all learned in school, of course. We were taught that easy money stimulates demand, which boosts inflation, especially when economies are growing at full capacity. However, easy money can also boost capacity. That certainly might explain why the commodity “super cycle” lasted only 10 years (from 2001-2010) rather than 25-50 years, as was widely hyped. China’s borrowing binge financed lots of excess capacity, as evidenced by its PPI, which has been falling for the past 26 months. The core CPI inflation rate for the 34 advanced economies in the OECD remains subdued below 2.0% y/y. However, it did rise during March to 1.7%, the highest since October 2012. The comparable inflation rate for the G7 was only 1.4% for the fifth consecutive month through March. Credit conditions are especially easy in the advanced economies. Rather than stimulating demand and consumer price inflation, easy money has boosted asset prices. It has also facilitated financial engineering, especially stock buybacks. Private equity investors are funding capacity expansion by seeding entrepreneurs who are developing productivity-enhancing innovations. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Tracking Global Inflation. (1) The Comeback Kid? (2) World inflation remains subdued according to IMF. (3) Theory vs. practice. (4) Easy money can boost capacity too. (5) The not-so-super cycle in commodities. (6) Easy money can also boost asset prices rather than CPIs. (7) Is Eurozone’s lowflation due to strong euro or structural reforms? (8) Does the world really need more capacity in Japan? (9) New and old PPI in the US telling same story. (10) Rent inflation inflating US CPI. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
By EscoPhotog on FlickrRetail stocks are getting hammered this morning, with TJX Companies (TJX) down 6%, Dick's Sporting Goods (DKS), down 16%, and Urban Outfitters (URBN), down 7%, all falling after disappointing quarterly reports.  TJX, which owns the T.J. Maxx and Marshalls brands, earlier this morning reported first quarter earnings of $0.64 per share, which was short of expectations for $0.67, on revenue of $6.49 billion against analysts' estimates for $6.6 billion. TJX also cut its fiscal year earnings outlook. Dick's also reported earnings and revenues that disappointed, with the sporting goods retailer citing difficulties in its golf and hunting segments.  Monday night, Urban Outfitters reported same-store sales in its namesake store fell 12% during the first quarter.  Other retailers under pressure today include TJX peer Ross Stores (ROST), down about 3%, Dick's peer Cabelas (CAB), down more than 5%, and Urban Outfitters teen-retail peers American Eagle (AEO), down 4% and American Apparel (APP), down 2.5%.  FREE AppDownload
TwitterKristi Culpepper.The fate of "Bond Girl," a lauded Twitter voice in the world of municipal debt commentary, remains in limbo after the woman behind the account says she felt pressured to reveal her identity. Kristi Culpepper, the head of Kentucky's School Facilities Construction Commission, had been tweeting from the @munilass handle as "Bond Girl" since April 2011 and was a frequent informal source for reporters covering muni markets. She also published her own work under the "Bond Girl" handle on Business Insider, FT.com, and Calculated Risk, among other outlets. Among her other duties, she handles bond sales for school-related debt in Kentucky. "As an anonymous tweeter, Bond Girl is probably a top-five contributor to the severely lacking universe" of municipal credit markets, one Chicago-based muni analyst told BI.   Last week, after years of pseudonymity, Culpepper abruptly revealed her identity, deleted almost all of her past tweets, and accused the Bond Buyer newspaper of attempting to out her. Bloomberg's Michelle Kaske and Brian Chappatta subsequently filed a story in which they discussed more publicly available details about Culpepper's life.  Bond Buyer subsequently tweeted they weren't planning a story to out her. But according to two people familiar with the matter, a former Bond Buyer employee was able to determine Culpepper's identity through Culpepper's occasional references to Kentucky and her announcements about attending Bond Buyer-sponsored conferences. The attendee lists for the conferences are accessible to anyone within the company — there is no Chinese wall separating Bond Buyer's conference side with its editorial — as well as anyone attending the conference . "The pool of people she could have been kept getting narrower and narrower," one of the sources said.  Bond Buyer may not have been planning on writing a specific article, but there was a natural journalistic inquisitiveness about who in this small world she could have been. A recent Culpepper tweet about attending Bond Buyer's conference at Brandeis University in Boston appears to have been the final piece of the puzzle for those who were looking. A Bond Buyer employee subsequently sent her a Facebook friend request, and a fund manager called Culpepper saying Bond Buyer had been asking around. That appeared to be the last straw, as Culpepper outed herself in a preemptive strike.  Twitter was outraged that she'd apparently been forced to do so, fearing a prominent commentator would be lost. Let's hope that the latest twitter-essay from @munilass really is the last word on this whole tale. She deserved much better. The @munilass outing is a 'orrible news. Best sources ALWAYS have possessive employers. Public finance needs better and informed scrutiny. ugh why why why did they doxx @munilass? such a smart, sharp, great writer, why ruin it for the rest of us by not honoring her privacy? Is it too late to nominate @munilass for webby or Pulitzer or medal of honor or something? FWIW I respect, trust and appreciate @munilass. I learned from her- that is saying something, especially here on Twitter. The issue raises questions about the role of online anonymity and whether prominent Twitter personalities rise to the level of a journalistic "public figure," making them fair game for news. Culpepper declined to comment, though she for now has begun tweeting again, this time as herself. She does not appear to be facing any disciplinary action from the commonwealth of Kentucky. Bond Buyer could not be reached for comment early Tuesday.  FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesCredit Suisse's top lawyer begged for mercy before federal regulators who decided to pursue criminal prosecution and a $2.6 billion fine against the bank — the first against a major bank in 10 years. Credit Suisse pleaded guilty. Jessica Silver-Greenberg and Ben Protess of The New York Times have the full, sad blow-by-blow of how the Justice Department cornered the proud Swiss bank for helping clients evade U.S. taxes. If this doesn't sound withering, we're not sure what does: Romeo Cerutti, a Swiss and Italian citizen who once practiced law at a corporate firm in California, arrived just weeks after prosecutors warned that Credit Suisse would need to plead guilty for helping American account holders hide their wealth and evade taxes. In a fourth-floor Justice Department conference room overlooking the National Museum of Natural History, Mr. Cerutti mounted a defense, assuring a group of high-ranking prosecutors that the wrongdoing was contained to a few low-level bankers. With a quiver in his voice, the lawyer urged prosecutors to settle for a so-called deferred prosecution agreement that would spare the bank criminal charges in exchange for various concessions, according to people briefed on the meeting. Criminal charges, he warned, could have serious consequences for Credit Suisse, and for the broader financial system. “Please don’t do this,” Mr. Cerutti asked the prosecutors, the people briefed on the meeting said. “Please give us a D.P.A.” Whether or not you think the NYT is being a bit romantic with its language, there's no denying that this is classic Wall Street. It's basically written in the playbook. You go to the feds, you tell them it was some junior guys  — a few bad apples — then (and this is key) you bring on the Apocalypse. What the Apocalypse looks like, we don't know for sure. What we do know is that it starts with prosecuting a bank criminally. After that the lion lays with the lamb and the four horsemen get in the saddle. Smaller firms, like Drexel Burnham Lambert back in 1989, crumbled under the weight of criminal prosecution, but that's not the best indicator of what could happen to a firm Credit Suisse's size. There isn't much modern precedent for that, actually. So, the idea was that the law of unintended consequences would bite regulators back if they prosecuted a bank. Now that it's been tested, reports indicate that they'll move on to other banks, like France's BNP Paribas. And then who knows what will happen. However, those who criticize the government for its lax treatment of Wall Street still quibble with this settlement. Credit Suisse did not have to turn over the names of their tax evading clients, and no individual bankers will be punished for this either. Senator Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa, for one, was upset about this: "... it might turn heads on Main Street that this is characterized as a sharp rebuke when the bar has been so low for Wall Street for years," he said. "Maybe we'll see some top individuals held criminally liable at some point but not today." That said, if this works out, who knows what could happen tomorrow.   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Larry DowningChinese tourists have caught the international travel bug — and the rest of the world is desperately hoping they never lose it.  The number of tourist departures from China hit a whopping 97.3 million in 2013, up more than nine fold from 2000, according to the Germany-based China Outbound Tourism Research Institute. To put this staggering figure into context, that means about one in 10 international tourists is now Chinese.  Chinese globetrotters also spend more than any other country: $129 billion in 2013, up 26 percent on the previous year and well ahead of the $86 billion spent by American travelers.  And if you think these figures are huge, consider this: only about 4 percent of China’s 1.3 billion people own passports.  It's a safe bet that the dizzying pace of growth of Chinese outbound tourism will continue as more people earn enough money to visit the likes of Paris, New York, Sydney and London. Understandably, Chinese tourists have become a hot commodity, particularly after the financial crisis plunged much of the world into a deep recession. Countries and companies are now falling all over themselves to attract increasingly wealthy Chinese travelers to their shores. Here's some examples: Jason Lee/Reuters Paris might be one of the most beautiful cities in the world, but it’s also becoming increasingly dangerous — at least for Chinese tourists. Travelers from China often carry large amounts of cash, making them easy prey for pickpockets and muggers. Concerned that the rising number of assaults on Chinese tourists could frighten them away, French authorities are recruiting Chinese police to help patrol tourist hot spots and keep their fellow citizens safe. Wikipedia To lure more Chinese tourists to their shores, several countries, including the United Statesand Britain, have cut the red tape for Chinese visitors applying for visas. Some nations are even considering doing away with the document altogether.  In October, the British government announced a 24-hour “super priority” visa application for Chinese business visitors and a scheme to allow Chinese tourists to apply for a UK and Schengen visa at the same time, instead of filing two separate applications.  The move came after a barrage of criticism that the British visa process was deterring visitors. Let’s be honest: It’s not Chinese tourists that companies want, it’s their money. To that end British luxury department store Harrods announced in April 2012 that it had installed 75 UnionPay (China’s main credit card) terminals in its store in Knightsbridge, London, as well as eight at its airport branches. Keen to attract more Chinese guests, hotels around the world are adjusting their services. French hotel group Accor, for example, employs Mandarin speaking staff and offers translations of maps and menus, adaptor plugs and Chinese newspapers. It also serves up Chinese dishes such as congee, soup and noodles for guests wanting a taste of home. Shutterstock As overseas vacations become more commonplace, Chinese tourists increasingly want to do more than just shop at big-brand stores and take snapshots of landmarks. Now they want adventure holidays such as skiing. Canada is going after this small but growing market by hiring Chinese or Chinese-speaking ski instructors at its ski resorts. Some countries are using Chinese celebrities to attract more tourists. Take New Zealand for example. Tourism authorities there have cashed in on the popularity of Chinese actress Yao Chen, pictured above, who has more than 66 million followers on Chinese microblogging service Weibo, by hosting her wedding and making her the face of its '100% Pure New Zealand' campaign in China. The number of Chinese visitors to Thailand more than doubled in the first nine months of 2013 from the previous year to over 3.24 million, making the Southeast Asian country the second most popular destination for Chinese tourists. The sharp increase was largely credited to the 2012 box-office hit “Lost in Thailand,” a Chinese comedy about two businessmen who go searching for their boss in Thailand. The tiny island of Mauritius is now hoping for the same spike after the release of the China-Japan co-production “Five Minutes to Tomorrow” this year.  FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ Brian McDermidTodd Harrison, the founder and CEO of Minyanville Thirteen year-old financial news website Minyanville is getting out of the digital media business because it's a "broken" model, the company's CEO and founder Todd Harrison writes. Here's the core of his argument:  The secular online publishing dynamic has shifted quickly, and there's desperation in the air. I would argue the digital media model is broken, with most of the players chasing clicks and treading water. Online financial-content companies have been struggling to reach profitability for years, and many are still hugging the flatline; simply put, it's not a destination we aspire to. (Minyanville was marginally profitable last year.) And the fundamentals are deteriorating. As syndication algorithms shift and content becomes even more commoditized, the volume of noise is rising with less being said, while CPMs (what advertisers pay publishers) trend lower as a function of automation. That leaves subscriptions and licenses, which become tougher sells in an information-overloaded, in-your-face multichannel environment. That devolved into a fear-mongering, can-you-top-that headline chase, which is both unfortunate and inconsistent with our brand ethos.  Minyanville doesn't appear to be going away, though. Harrison, a former Wall Street trader, makes it sound as if they're willing to sell to a financial firm.  ...I also believe that there is demand for our assets and abilities; entry into this space is a buy-or-build decision for the brokers. We'll soon see if 13 years later, we're in the right place at the right time -- the market will determine fair value, and we'll know by year-end. As we pivot toward financial services, we'll publish our real-time smart market commentary, work with clients to drive results, and satisfy our obligations in the marketplace.  All the while, we'll maintain an open dialogue with our community as we explore next steps with potential partners. I don't know what the future holds, but we're shifting our strategic approach and communicating in good faith.  Read Harrison's full blog at Minyanville » FREE AppDownload
CaterpillarCaterpillar (CAT) just filed its latest rolling 3 month retail sales as of the end of April, and its global sales are continuing to crater. Total international machine sales are down 13%, with its total machine sales in Asia down 25%.  Caterpillar's April sales drop in Asia compares to March and February declines of 20% and 17%, respectively. Caterpillar, which is seen as a proxy for building activity in China, reported 2013 sales and revenues of $55.66 billion, down from $65.88 billion in 2012. Last summer, Jim Chanos, a long-time China bear, gave a presentation outlining a short position in Caterpillar. On CNBC last week, Chanos said he remains short the stock. Shares of Caterpillar are down about 1% in morning trade.  FREE AppDownload
WikimediaFor years, many analysts have been warning about the dangers of the Fed's unusually easy monetary policy, mostly fearing that inflation would suddenly begin accelerating, as it occasionally did in past dovish eras. In the post-Great Recession period, those widespread price increases have yet to truly materialize (though there are signs that is slowly beginning to change), which is why the Fed has been comfortable keeping rates low.   In a recent note, JPMorgan's Jan Loeys, the bank's head of global asset allocation, warns inflation is coming, but not in the goods and services where we may have thought. It will be in asset prices, in what he calls "financial overheating," which will increase faster than consumer prices, which he calls "economic overheating." This, he says, will create a "financial bubble" that will inevitably pop.  Here's how it will go down: Where do we go from here? To this analyst, still very subdued economic growth, both at the US and global level, implies continued easy monetary policy. The risk is that bond yields rise no faster than the forwards. Financial overheating (asset inflation) proceeds much faster than economic overheating (CPI inflation). Before CPI inflation has a chance to emerge, and before monetary policy is truly above neutral, a financial bubble will have popped up somewhere and will have corrected, pushing the economy down. That is what has happened in the past 25 years. The behavior of central banks gives us no confidence that this time will be different: Central banks talk about financial instability, but appear to define this mostly in term of bank leverage. Each successive boom and bust is always in another place. A bubble can emerge without leverage. It is not possible to project exactly where this boom and bust cycle will take place as knowing where it will be would induce evasive actions that should prevent it from occurring. One possible ending, among many, is that ultra-easy rates having induced credit markets to grow much faster than equity markets, combines with reduced market making by banks (many of whom have become like brokers) to create a liquidity crisis when the Fed starts the first set of rate hikes. This could then be bad enough to close primary markets, and thus push us into a credit crisis. The good news is this won't happen for another two or three years. "We need blindness to risk, and some normalization of policy rates to induce a broad asset correction," he says. As far as positioning, Loeys says it makes sense to steadily shift from less liquid to more liquid assets, namely from credit to equities.  Still, none of this sounds good. FREE AppDownload
Despite last year's 30% price plunge, people around the world continue to buy gold. "First quarter gold demand held steady at 1,074.5 tonnes, maintaining the lofty levels seen last year," said the World Gold Council in its new Gold Demand Trends report. Here's a little more color: Jewellery demand made moderate gains of 3% largely due to lower gold prices compared with Q1 2013 and seasonal factors, notably Chinese New Year, which contributed to record first-quarter jewellery demand in China. Movements within the investment space were more striking: net ETF flows were zero, compared with 177t of outflows in Q1 2013, while bar and coin investment unsurprisingly fell far short (-39%) of the record levels of demand seen a year ago. The net impact on Q1 investment demand was minimal: it was down by just 6t (2%) year-on-year. In the official sector, central banks continued to purchase gold for its diversification and risk management properties, adding 122.4t, while substitution to other materials continued to impact gold demand in the technology space – down 4% year-on-year.... Demand isn't growing, but it certainly hasn't plunged either. World Gold Council FREE AppDownload
It can be incredibly difficult to leave work on time with so much to do, and bosses to impress. But it's important, and this is how to do it. Produced By Matt Johnston.Follow BI Video: On Facebook
In the larger view, it is clear that the major economies are not near to firing on all, or even a preponderance of, cylinders. While the U.S. was thought to be defying gravity, the Q1 GDP number (up 0.1% and likely to be revised into negative territory) gave markets and forecasters a bracing splash of icy cold water.  While weather may have played a significant role in that data point, it did reflect a deepening of slowing that was already felt in November and December of 2013. More importantly, as recent data has demonstrated, the three other large economic engines of the world—the Eurozone, China and Japan—are incredibly soft. There was one other bit of additional non-data news hit this month concerning another large nation that seeks to be competitive with U.S.  Narendra Modi’s party won undisputed control of the parliament of India, tossing out the Congress Party that has governed India almost continuously since its independence from Britain.  The Congress Party’s cronyism and its tolerance of structural economic barriers to growth and competitiveness has meant that India has heretofore not been able to become a sustained net export economy, challenging the advanced nations much as China has.  Imagine if those barriers now fall. All of the foregoing portend an absence of demand growth necessary to reverse disinflationary (and, quite possibly, deflationary) trends in advanced economies.  As I have written before, the disinflationary forces present in this "Age of Oversupply," coupled with the persistent debt overhang in the developed nations that is constraining consumer and government spending, are overwhelming. Those consistently fearing inflation are being proved more and more misguided as time goes on and, this month has demonstrated that bond markets are beginning to catch on to deflationary risk, even as equity markets hover around new highs (although small cap stocks and indices have seen meaningful retracements). So how has this fundamental global macroeconomic problem been reflected in U.S. data and what are we not seeing clearly enough that has given rise to market and analytical confusion?  One area of dispute has been over the issue of the severe weather in the U.S. during Q1 2014. This certainly had an adverse impact on Q1 economic results, but the “catch up” effect is also wreaking havoc with trend analysis in Q2. Nevertheless, given the larger global macroeconomic picture and its logical impact on the U.S. economy, I don’t think snowstorms were the only things keeping the U.S. economy grounded.   The following is a summary of recent headline data, together with underlying facts and mitigating factors, that should bring us closer to appreciating what is really going on (which I shall summarize at the end of this piece).  Note that I have avoided poll data below, simply because I think such data has relevance only over very long time frames and is not particularly accurate in reflecting macroeconomic conditions in real time.  I tag each item with [BETTER] or [WORSE] to make clear my assessment of each situation, relative to the U.S. economy.   Consumer Price Index – Commodities were up only 0.1% excluding food and energy. There was a pass through of energy prices through gasoline that was reflective of previously higher crude oil prices that have since fallen.  With respect to food, all of the increase was in perishables, with huge M/M jumps in beef (3.0%) and pork (4.1%), as well as meaningful moves in dairy (0.5%) and fruits and vegetables (0.7%). As it happens, the U.S. is experiencing severe drought conditions in the far west and they are undoubtedly impacting prices on the supply, rather than reflecting pressures on the—healthier—demand side.  Proof of this conclusion may be found in the fact that all other foodstuffs were down or flat.  On the services side, all price rises were in rents (with future rises likely unsustainable given stagnant wages—more about that below), airfare and medical services.  Both of the latter two are the subject of unique industry circumstance—consolidation of U.S. airlines (decreased competition) and fluctuations in insurance costs relating to the phase in of the ACA law. [WORSE]                     Keep in mind that much of the foregoing—starts, CPI, GDP, even payrolls—is impacted by the housing sector.  Moreover, the Fed has been relying on the post-June 2012 housing sector recovery as its shining star and generator of overall economic health going forward.  During the month, Fed Chair Yellen expressed some concerns about housing and I will add my own words of caution here. U.S. housing, which did not reach its post-bubble statistical low valuation until early 2012 (a fact that seems forgotten two years later), took off in correlation with the historically low bond yields that were reached between the Fed’s QE2 and QE3 initiatives, and then accelerated greatly during QE3. By the end of 2013, U.S. housing prices had, on average, retraced nearly half the value lost since their bubble-era peak.  Prices were fueled by low interest rates, but were driven higher-still by what is still a post-crises anomaly…tight inventories of for-sale housing, amid rates of household formation (and thus incremental demand) that continue at levels lower than at any time since the Great Depression (no, that isn't a typo - and that's in nominal, non-population-adjusted terms). Looking back at the recovery in home prices that occurred simultaneously with QE3, we saw inventories constrained by homeowners remaining underwater relative to their bubble-era mortgage and thus unable, or unwilling, to sell their homes—combined with those with very low levels of home equity, insufficient to afford a down payment on a new home and therefore de-facto non-sellers. We also experienced a large number of investor purchasers of homes able to access low cost capital to acquire the limited inventory that was available, and pay up for it when necessary. Writing about the third quarter of 2013, the real estate database firm, Zillow, noted “…one in five American homeowners with a mortgage remains underwater, a stubbornly high rate that is contributing to inventory shortages and holding back a full market recovery. The “effective” negative equity rate, which includes those homeowners with a mortgage with 20 percent or less equity in their homes, was 39.2 percent in the third quarter. Listing a home for sale and buying a new one generally requires equity of 20 percent or more to comfortably meet related expenses.” One cannot find a more classic example of a market unable to find a true “clearing” price level because of non-market influences (i.e. government policy initiatives).  And like much of post-crisis history, much has been made of headline data in housing without careful consideration of underlying dynamics. We are living with an economy that appears to have been able to generate annual growth in the 2% range and has created enough jobs to replace those lost in the Great Recession, but nowhere near enough to absorb the increase in working age population since then.  Certainly, the U.S. economy has not achieved anything remotely close to the escape velocity necessary to sustain the virtuous circle of job and wage growth, consumption, and creation/absorption of new capacity.  To a certain extent, the devilish data unveiled so far this month merely underscores that.  The household debt overhang of the bubble period remains with us, and it is only an acceleration of growth that can whittle that away. Meanwhile, we remain beset by continuing, and possibly worsening, global wage and price imbalances with, and insufficient domestic demand in, our trading partners. The data is still mixed and so are the markets. Equities (at least large cap equities) are near all-time highs, while 10 year bond yields are around 50 basis points lower than they were at year end. One market is telling us that we are on the cusp of something big. The other market is signaling more of the same or worse.  What I don’t see is the event that will give rise to vigorous growth in 2014, and this month may prove to have been the period in which those more optimistic than I battled with the data devil and lost their innocence.  This article originally appeared at Westwood Capital.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
 REUTERS/Stefan Wermuth Good morning! Here's what you need to know. GoPro IPO Coming. The camera maker filed an S-1 Monday afternoon. They generated just under $1 billion in revenue last year and they're already profitable. AstraZeneca Deal On Life Support. Some shareholders of the British drug giant are trying to revive talks with Pfizer after the American firm said it was done making offers.  Home Depot Earnings. The home supplies giant reported Q1 revenue that missed forecasts, but said sales in non weather-related items were steady, and did not change its full-year outlook. Still, shares were down more than 1% premarket. Credit Suisse Guilty. The Justice Department wrung out a guilty plea in a criminal tax fraud case from the Swiss bank, which agreed to pay a $2.6 billion fine.  Microsoft Presents. CEO Satya Nadella is expected to present an update on the Surface tablet at 11 a.m. eastern. UK Inflation Higher. British consumer price data topped forecasts but there was little market reaction. The FT quotes PIMCO's Mike Amey: "The basic theme of little inflation risk remains intact. For the MPC, the labour market is the key to the path of monetary policy. The MPC will start to raise interest rates when the economy can withstand it – that means average earnings need to rise from their current 1.7%." Australian Dollar Dips. Australia’s dollar dropped to a two-week low against the greenback as the nation’s central bank signaled it was likely to maintain record-low interest rates, Businessweek said. “The picture is turning quite negative for the Australian dollar,” said Ian Stannard, head of European foreign-exchange strategy at Morgan Stanley in London. “The RBA assessment is fairly downbeat. The Aussie’s recovery since the beginning of the year could well be tested.” Futures Lower. U.S. markets are set to open down. Stocks in Europe were also off. Hong Kong's Hang Seng was up 0.57%, and Japan's Nikkei climbed 0.49%.   No data. The New York Fed's William Dudley and the Philadelphia Fed's Charles Plosser speak today.  JP Morgan: A Bubble Is Out There. In a recent note, Jan Loeys, the bank's global head of asset allocation, warned of a new financial crisis when the Fed begins raising rates, the FT says. "Before CPI inflation has a chance to emerge, and before monetary policy is truly above neutral, a financial bubble will have popped up somewhere and will have corrected, pushing the economy down," Loeys writes. "That is what has happened in the past 25 years. The behavior of central banks gives us no confidence that this time will be different: Central banks talk about financial instability, but appear to define this mostly in term of bank leverage. Each successive boom and bust is always in another place. A bubble can emerge without leverage." FREE AppDownload
REUTERSFutures Traders make signals on the floor of the Sydney Futures Exchange May 13, 1997.Dave Lutz of Stifel, Nicolaus has the things traders are talking about today: US Futures are off small this AM, mirroring slight weakness in Europe.   Volumes look to be abysmal again (yesterday 2nd slowest day in 2014 in USA) – with the DAX unchanged but trading 20% light to normal averages.   Lack of Catalysts = Lack of volumes, and today may be sharply influenced by the week’s largest POMO, as 2 Fed speakers the only other catalysts on the docket ahead of the BOJ (and FOMC Minutes) tomorrow.   Ukraine Stress continues to fall to the sidelines, with Russia’s Micex off small, but driven more by the delay in the China Natty Deal (rumored $400b).  Focus on Emerging Markets was on Thailand, where the army declared martial law before dawn “to keep peace and order” but denied this was an attempt at a coup (Thai off 1.2%).   In Asia, we had a bounce back in China (lowered # of IPOs allowed) – and Japan managed to gain 50bp despite the Yen being bid higher.   Watch the Miners - Aussie miners under stress as Ore breaks $100/ton in China.   We have Options expiry for many VIX measures today – and we will see if the Momentum stocks can build on yesterday’s sharp outperformance as MoMo darling FEYE speaks this AM at JPM (FEYE up 5% this AM).  The Homebuilders and Home Improvement space will be a focus as HD is offered lower this AM (#s) FREE AppDownload
From CoreLogic: Cash Sales Made up 40 Percent of Total Home Sales in February Cash sales made up 40.2 percent of total home sales in February 2014, down from 43.7 percent the previous year and 40.8 percent the previous month. Cash sales share comparisons should be made on a year-over-year basis due to the seasonal nature of the housing market , and by that measurement, the trend in cash sales is clearly down. Prior to the housing crisis, the cash sales share of total home sales averaged approximately 25 percent. The peak occurred in January 2011, when cash transactions made up 46.2 percent of total home sales. Reports that cash sales were up sharply in 2014 were incorrect. This fits with data from Tom Lawler.And a post from Sam Khater at CoreLogic: REO Inventory Rising Once Again After reaching a trough in August of 2013 of 375,000 properties, the number of real estate owned (REO) properties increased 15 percent to 430,000 as of March 2014 (Figure 1). The increase in REO properties was broad based, rising in 46 states. While the increase was moderate nationally, some states had large increases. Idaho led the way with the stock of REO properties nearly doubling between August 2013 and March 2014. Maryland had the 2nd largest increase in the number of REO properties, which increased 78 percent, followed by Nevada (up 70 percent), Oregon (up 47 percent) and North Dakota (up 42 percent). The rise in REOs across most states reflects several inter-related factors ... This graph from CoreLogic shows the recent increase in REOs. CorelogicNote: The number of REOs at Fannie and Freddie was down slightly in Q1, but has increased in recent quarters. The FDIC reported a slight decrease in REOs in Q4 (dollars). So most of the recent increase in REOs reported by CoreLogic was probably due to private label (the worst of the worst). FREE AppDownload
AFP Photo/Bruce WeaverNASA's Curiosity rover, formally known as the Mars Science Laboratory, heads for space on November 26, 2011, atop an Atlas 5 rocket from launch pad 41 at Cape Canaveral in Florida.Sea level rise is threatening the majority of NASA's launch pads and multi-billion dollar complexes famous for training astronauts and launching historic missions to space, scientists said on Tuesday. From Cape Canaveral in Florida to mission control in Houston, the US space agency is busily building seawalls where possible and moving some buildings further inland. Five of seven major NASA centers are located along the coast. Experts say that proximity to water is a logistical necessity for launching rockets and testing spacecraft. Many NASA centers have already faced costly damage from encroaching water, coastal erosion and potent hurricanes, said a report by the Union of Concerned Scientists. Perhaps the most iconic launchpad lies in Florida at the Kennedy Space Center, the liftoff point for the Apollo missions to the Moon and many space shuttle flights over the past three decades. "According to NASA's planning and development office, rising sea levels are the single largest threat to the Kennedy Space Center's continued operations," said the report, which also listed other historic sites across the United States that are threatened by sea level rise. They include the Statue of Liberty in New York, the first permanent British colony in North America at Jamestown Island in Virginia, and historic Charleston, South Carolina. One key NASA site that is succumbing to rising seas is Wallops Flight Facility in Virginia, where 16,000 rockets have launched and where sea levels have surged nine inches (23 centimeters) since it opened in 1945. Others are Ames Research Center in San Francisco and Langley Research Center in Virginia, which is a $3.5 billion facility with specialized wind tunnels for simulating flight. "Retreat is the way to go here, because you just can't like, get up and move. The infrastructure is too great here," Russell De Young of the NASA science directorate at Langley told AFP. "They are tearing down buildings that are at the water's edge and building new structures as far back as we can against the fence of the property line," he said. The new complex is aptly named "New Town." De Young is among a handful of NASA employees who are tasked with monitoring climate change and analyzing the impacts it would have on NASA facilities. President Barack Obama in 2009 called on all government agencies to take steps to prepare for climate change. De Young said the space agency, like other government facilities that find themselves on the coast, are trying to make incremental changes over the coming decades. "This is not imminent," he said, noting that the forecast at Langley, which is in Hampton, Virginia, is for five feet (30 centimeters) of sea level rise from the 1980s until the year 2100. "With sea level rise you can always manage it, but if a hurricane hits us, that is what worries us. The combination of the two is a devastating blow that we dread." Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Edgard GarridoMexican billionaire Carlos SlimMEXICO CITY (Reuters) - For a generation, AT&amp;T and Mexican billionaire Carlos Slim's telephone business stood side by side and grew to become giants of the industry north and south of the Rio Grande. Now, AT&amp;T Inc's planned $48.5 billion purchase of U.S. satellite provider DirecTV is severing a connection with Slim that goes back to 1990, and turning them into competitors. AT&amp;T said on Sunday it would sell its 8.4 percent stake in America Movil, Slim's main cash cow, and withdraw its board members from the company to avoid conflicts of interest with the Mexican's TV operations across Latin America. News of the divestment hit Slim immediately. America Movil's shares fell more than 5 percent early on Monday, wiping over $3.5 billion off the company's value, although they recovered some ground in late morning trade and were down about 3 percent. AT&amp;T's chief executive officer, Randall Stephenson, wasted no time in acknowledging that the relationship had changed. "I learned a lot from Carlos and so, obviously, Carlos and I have spoken and he is a very dear friend, but now he is going to be a competitor and we recognize that and off we go," Stephenson said on a call with investors on Monday. A spokeswoman for America Movil declined to comment on the deal. Slim, who was the world's richest man from 2010-2013, has nearly 20 million pay television subscribers in Latin America, putting him squarely into competition with DirecTV, especially in Brazil. He has not yet been allowed into the Mexican pay TV market, however, due to fears he could crush competitors. DirecTV has 18 million subscribers across Latin America. "By dumping (America Movil) shares, AT&amp;T can pursue a more aggressive strategy in Latam," BTIG Research analyst Walter Piecyk said on Twitter. The exit of AT&amp;T from America Movil also creates a potential new rival to Slim in the very telecoms industry where the 74-year-old made his fortune. America Movil dominates Mexico's telecoms market but the government is carrying out the biggest shake-up of the industry since Slim took control of former state phone monopoly Telmex in the early 1990s. Telmex was swallowed by America Movil, its former mobile unit, in 2011. Seeking to reduce America Movil's control of 70 percent of the mobile business in Mexico and 80 percent of the fixed line market, the government has rolled out a range of new antitrust measures against Slim and threatened a break-up of his firm. America Movil's stock hit a near four-year low after the government presented its reform in March 2013, and it remains well below mid-2012 levels. The firm also has capital committed to taking control of Telekom Austria. There are few telecoms companies with the financial clout to take Slim on in Mexico, where he has for years successfully resisted attempts to cut him down to size. One of those companies is AT&amp;T, which has had two members as well as one former executive on the 17-strong board of America Movil, a connection dating back to Slim's takeover of Telmex. In 1990, Slim bought a majority stake in Telmex with France Telecom and Southwestern Bell Corporation, which in 2005 took over former parent ArastT&amp;T and with it, its name. Today, Texas-based AT&amp;T is the biggest telecoms company in North America, while its Mexican peer is the largest in Latin America. As recently as September, AT&amp;T said it would use its connections with America Movil's network to improve access for corporate clients in 15 Latin American markets including Brazil, Mexico and Argentina. Still, the two companies are already competing in the United States, where Slim's U.S. business Tracfone Wireless had 25.5 millions subscribers as of end March. Macquarie analyst Kevin Smithen said that America Movil may now try to make deeper inroads into AT&amp;T's home turf. "I think we will see that America Movil is now free to enter the U.S. We may see it try to partner with one of the other players be it Sprint, T-Mobile or Dish," Smithen said. (Additional reporting by Marina Lopes in New York and Elinor Comlay in Mexico City; Writing by Dave Graham; Editing by Kieran Murray) FREE AppDownload
The Aussie dollar is down 1 cent to 0.9268 since Monday’s opening, as traders assess the implications of a potential budget crisis – legislation being blocked in the Senate and claims by the PM that S&amp;P could downgrade the nation’s AAA rating – and the recent crash in iron ore prices. It’s an unhelpful cocktail if you own Aussie dollars, but might finally signal that its recent rally to 94 cents is finally over. Throw in comments by RBA Assistant Governor Guy Debelle today implying capital flows will no longer support the Aussie, and we have preconditions that could knock it lower in the weeks, maybe even days ahead. Traders don’t normally worry about the federal budget, but they are keeping an eye on the actions of the minor parties, emboldened by the crash in government polling support and thecollapse in consumer confidence. It’s the uncertainty that traders and markets abhor. The debate over the budget and the downturn in confidence and government support will leave AUD buyers and holders concerned that about the impact on economic growth in the quarters ahead. The normal reaction in times of uncertainty is to sell. Indeed the RBA has already argued that the AUD is too high – it should be down around the mid 80s range according the RBA Governor Glenn Stevens – so the preconditions are there for selling. Annette Beacher, TD Securities Head of Asia Pacific, says Debelle’s speech today makes for a “busy day for soggy AUD-related headlines”. Beacher says Debelle covers three structural capital flow issues that won’t help the Aussie going forward. On the third topic Debelle said: My general sense is that the bulk of sovereign asset managers now have Australian dollar assets as part of their portfolios, so there are not many new buyers left to emerge. The main chunk of diversification occurred through 2010 to 2012, although demand has remained robust since then. Beacher says this is code for while there may not be too much selling the “impetus for further accumulation has faded somewhat.” Indeed as the chart below shows, the Aussie rally looks to be rolling over. How far it falls will tell us if its ability to defy gravity, which has characterised it over the last few years, will remain. A fall back under 90 cents means it will be back doing the economic job it’s supposed to. It would also be a strong counter balance to any emerging economic weakness as a result of the fall in iron ore or the budget. BI Australia Disclaimer: Greg McKenna as a very small short AUD position.   This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
It’s commonly believed that gold is a safe haven asset that can protect us from not only purchasing power risk, but also permanent loss risk.  This is believed to be particularly true during periods of crisis.  But this great piece from Vanguard shows that T-bonds are actually a better safe haven than gold.  Here’s what they show: Vanguard That’s probably not surprising to readers here.  Gold is essentially a commodity with a special currency component.  This makes it slightly different than other commodities, but only because of what I refer to as a “faith put” that is a remnant of the gold standard and the metallist monetary era.  This gives gold some unique and interesting elements and even makes it a potentially useful non-correlated asset at times, but it’s important to keep the facts straight when considering an allocation towards gold.Read more at http://pragcap.com/green-is-the-new-gold#Ybdzu4lweE5rSpsz.99 FREE AppDownload
Chris Jackson/Getty ImagesFor those perpetually on the lookout for any tiny hint of inflation in this lowflation world, here's a nugget: UK inflation rose to 1.8% to 1.6%, although there may have been some one-time factors at play. From the ONS: The Consumer Prices Index (CPI) grew by 1.8% in the year to April 2014, up from 1.6% in March. Increases in transport costs, notably air fares, sea fares and motor fuels, provided the largest contribution to the rise in the rate. An overall fall in the price of food was the largest offsetting factor. The timing of Easter is likely to have had an impact on the index – most notably for air fares and sea fares.  Core inflation rose, meanwhile, to 2.0%. FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Renzo ApostoliGood morning! Markets are going nowhere. Around the world, from Asia to Europe to US futures, markets are essentially flat today. One of the few notable losers is Thailand, where the military has imposed martial law, though the selling in Thai stocks is not particularly dramatic (they're down about 1%). Once again, we're looking at a very quiet week for economic data and corporate news. FREE AppDownload
