The Wyss Institute at Harvard University has developed a device that can remove Ebola among other viruses from the bloodstream. Produced by Matthew Stuart Follow BI Video: On Facebook
US stock futures are trading lower after the first case of Ebola in New York City was confirmed on Thursday night. Near 10:00 pm ET, Dow futures were down about 65 points, S&amp;P 500 futures were down about 10 points, and Nasdaq futures were down 23 points. On Thursday night, The New York Times reported that a doctor who recently returned Guinea tested positive for Ebola. The patient, Dr. Craig Spencer has been placed in isolation at Bellevue Hospital as health workers attempt to find others he may have been in contact recently, according to the Times' report. News that a patient was being monitored for Ebola-like symptoms broke on Thursday afternoon, and dinged the markets a bit late in the day. Stocks still finished Thursday with big gains, as the Dow gained more than 200 points. Initial news that a patient was being monitored for Ebola also sent shares of hazmat suit maker Lakeland Industries, which has been rallying in recent weeks amid Ebola cases in the US, sharply higher. Here's the chart of Dow futures on Thursday night.  FinViz And S&amp;P futures. FinViz FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTokyo Stock Exchange staff members work at the bourse at TSE in TokyoBy Hideyuki Sano TOKYO (Reuters) - Asian shares climbed on Friday after upbeat U.S. corporate earnings, solid U.S. economic data, and an unexpected uptick in euro zone business sentiment helped ease concerns that the global economy was losing momentum. Japan's Nikkei share average  rose 1.4 percent while MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan  was up 0.1 percent. Results from Caterpillar Inc  and 3M Co  reassured investors that companies with large overseas revenue streams could deliver solid profits, despite concerns about global economic growth. The markets ignored positive earnings earlier this month, when the world's share prices hit multi-month lows, overwhelmed by fears that sluggishness in Europe and Asia could deal a severe blow to the U.S. economy as well. But a steady flow of solid earnings helped to ease many such concerns for now. With 177 of the S&amp;P 500 companies having posted third-quarter results, 69.5 percent have beaten expectations, better than the 67 percent beat rate over the past four quarters, and higher than the 20-year average of 63 percent, Thomson Reuters data showed. "The markets had fallen on sentiment rather than on facts. And the sentiment is coming back," said Soichiro Monji, chief strategist at Daiwa SB Investments. New claims for U.S. unemployment benefits also held below 300,000 for a sixth straight week last week. In the euro zone a survey showed businesses performed much better than anyone expected this month, even though it also pointed to strong deflationary pressure in the region. Wall Street shares rose on Thursday as a result, with S&amp;P 500 index  hitting two-week highs, although their gains were pared back in late session on news of the first Ebola case seen in New York. U.S. debt prices fell, lifting their yields. The 10-year notes yield hit a two-week high of 2.300 percent on Thursday and last stood at 2.277 percent. The U.S. dollar also rose, reaching as high as 108.36 yen, its highest level in two weeks and up about 3.0 percent from this month's low. The euro drew some support from the surprise strength in the euro zone data, but was still near a two-week low of $1.2614 hit on Thursday. It last stood at $1.2649. Oil prices rebounded on news Saudi Arabia cut supply to the market in September, even though its overall production grew month on month, and on strong economic data from Europe and China. Brent crude oil traded at $86.68 per barrel , after gaining nearly 3 percent on Thursday.  (Editing by Eric Meijer) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe DOJ logo is pictured on a wall after a news conference in New York(Reuters) - Lawyers representing 73 Swiss banks seeking to avoid a tax-evasion probe by U.S. authorities wrote a letter to the U.S. Department of Justice raising questions over a dozen demands, including the banks' cooperation with other nations. In the letter dated Oct. 21, the lawyers questioned the terms of a proposed non-prosecution agreement over how banks can achieve amnesty through the disclosure program announced last year. The disclosure program that allows some Swiss banks to pay fines to avoid or defer prosecution over tax evasion by their U.S. customers was signed by more than 100 Swiss banks in December, Bloomberg reported earlier. In the 11-page letter seen by Reuters, lawyers from 18 law firms have requested the U.S. DOJ to discuss issues which present substantial obstacles to their clients’ to "cooperate fully with . . . any other domestic or foreign law enforcement agency designated by the Department,” among a wide range of other changes. "This requirement is not found in the Program and, indeed, turns a Program specifically focused on U.S. tax issues into a global cooperation agreement without any safeguards or guarantees of appropriate consideration of the banks’ cooperation," the document argued. The United States in recent years has stepped up its pursuit of Swiss banks for aiding tax evasion and has increasingly pressured individual bankers. The letter comes as UBS AG  and other Swiss banks struggle to put behind them their pasts as willing accomplices to tax evasion and outright tax fraud. "The Department of Justice has been in contact with representatives of the Swiss government as well as the legal representatives of the specific banks that entered Category 2 of the Department's Swiss Bank Program," U.S. Department of Justice spokeswoman Nicole Navas said. "We are working through a number of issues in order to implement the requirements of the program and conclude agreements with the individual banks in Category 2," Navas added.  (Reporting By Aurindom Mukherjee in Bangalore, Karen Freifeld in New York &amp; Aruna Viswanatha in Washington; Editing by Bernard Orr) FREE AppDownload
Mike Nudelman/Business InsiderMarc AndreessenMarc Andreessen is no stranger to Silicon Valley. He was around during the dot com boom and bust of the early aughts, and he's still there today. Netscape, which he co-founded in 1994, went on to become the first mainstream web browser. And his venture capital firm, Andreessen Horowitz, has backed some of the biggest startups around.  His thoughts, which he abundantly shares on Twitter, have made him an icon.  The venture capitalist recently sat down with New York Magazine's Kevin Roose to discuss the state of Silicon Valley and the worldwide tech industry. Here are three entrepreneurial truisms upon which he consistently adheres:  1. All feedback is good feedback. Andreessen loves to pour out his thoughts, and disagreements with others, on Twitter. These don't come without backlash, of course. "Every morning," says Andreessen, "I wake up and several dozen people have explained to me in detail how I'm an idiot on Twitter, which is actually fairly helpful."  This feedback keeps Andreessen from living inside of a bubble, which he warns is killer. "It’s very rare that billionaires actually stop and think, Everybody’s nicer to me than they were 10 years ago," says Andreessen. "This is not limited to billionaires. This applies to presidents, senators, congressmen, mayors, anybody who gets in a position of power."  2. An investment is more than monetary. As a venture capitalist, Andreessen doesn't just throw money at companies and wait for a return to show up.  "A lot of my time is working with founders and CEOs of companies in the portfolio," says Andreessen, "I'm basically permanently on call to all of them."  3. Regulation is not your friend. Andreessen is a vocal opponent of new legislation and regulation.  "There’s this myth that government regulation is well intentioned and benign, and implemented properly," says Andreessen. "That’s the myth. And then when people actually run into this in the real world, they’re, 'Oh, fuck, I didn’t realize.'" At the end of the day, it's ideas that move a business forward, not cynicism. "My presumptive tendency," says Andreessen: "is not to ask, 'Is it going to work?' It's, 'Well, what if it does work?'" Keep reading for Andreessen's full interview with New York Magazine. FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Ian WilsonFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisers.  Randomly Investing In Emerging Markets Isn't Going To Fly Anymore (Alliance Bernstein) "It's getting harder to generate equity returns in emerging markets. Simply chasing the index — the so-called beta trade — won't do the job anymore," writes Sammy Suzuki. In the past, it was easy to simply randomly invest in emerging markets and get returns. Now, investors will have to carefully look through options "with a discriminating eye," writes Suzuki. Investors should focus on finding specific companies that have great presence within the emerging markets. One such example that Alliance Bernstein analysts reference is the South African discount-apparel retailer, Mr Price Group. The company has posted earnings growth of 24% per year for the last 10 years, even though the South African economy has been stagnant. It's Wrong To Consider Active Management Just Because It Involves A Market That You Think Is Inefficient (Vanguard) Investors often manage their large-cap US stocks passively, but actively manage small-cap and international markets because they are less efficient. "Vanguard does believe in the potential for low-cost, talented active management to add value," but choosing active because a market is inefficient is incorrect, argues Chris Phillips. Vanguard recently conducted research on indexing, which included "dead funds", or funds that were either merged or liquidated. They found that once dead funds were considered, 84% of actively managed small-cap US funds, 73% of developed non-US, and 71% of EM funds underperformed the average return of low-cost index funds in the same categories over 10 years.  "By my count, that's three out of every four funds that failed to deliver on the theory that these markets are less efficient and therefore ripe for performance. Compare that to large-cap US stocks, where 85% of funds underperformed," writes Phillips. Those Transitioning To Advisory Roles Will Have More Managerial And Long-Term Duties (Investment News) Not everyone starts out as a financial advisor — some people transition to or graduate to that role over the course of their career. There are several major changes that a career-changing adviser will experience. First, days will be "less reactive and task-oriented," writes Stacy J. Caudill. "Certainly, I have things to do, but I now have a more proactive and holistic approach to my day. In addition, I am comfortable assigning tasks to our sales assistants, which in turn, helps me with what I need to accomplish," she writes. Assisted Living Communities Are The Cheapest Option For Elderly Care (Financial Planning) For the most part, seniors would rather stay in their own homes than move in to elderly care institutions. But as costs for elderly care continue to rise, it's important to consider the financial side of things, too. Assisted living communities are the cheapest options and offer a "compromise" between living at home and being at a nursing home. "Clients get medical supervision and daily living assistance in a home-like environment," according to Financial Planning. The costs are around $90 per day, or $32,568 per year. Nursing homes and in-home care are both more expensive. At times, in-home care can be more expensive than nursing homes. However, it's important to note that the location of the nursing home or assisted living community will greatly affect the price. Homes in Long Island, for example, cost twice as much as those in Chicago. The Two Fired Merrill Lynch Advisors Are Heading To Stifel Financial (The Wall Street Journal) Last month two high-powered financial advisors — Stephen Brown and James Goetz — at Merrill Lynch were fired after they allegedly violated their firm's policies. The reasons behind the advisors' terminations are still unclear.  However, that hasn't stopped the two from making a move. Several firms were vying for the two advisors, and ultimately Stifel Financial Corp. has picked them up. At Merrill Lynch, the advisors managed $2.5 billion in client assets, reports Michael Wursthorn. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA FedEx truck is parked next to a UPS truck as both drivers make deliveries in downtown San DiegoBy Nick Carey CHICAGO (Reuters) - Determined not to repeat a holiday season that left millions of packages delivered too late and customers seething, United Parcel Service Inc  and FedEx Corp  are investing heavily in new infrastructure - but the continued dynamic growth of e-commerce will test those efforts. The world's two largest shipping companies are building new facilities, adding more temporary holiday workers and pushing retailers to help them avoid a recurrence of a pre-Christmas shipping logjam. Even so, the rise in shipping originating with e-tailers including Amazon.com Inc  and Zappos could test even the new capacity levels. Peak days at both companies now equal roughly double their average daily volumes. Mark Wallace, vice president of engineering in the United States at UPS, said the company still has volume limits, despite substantial investment this year. "There is only so much capacity in the network." A late spike in demand last year caused by last-minute online promotions plagued express delivery companies. Some 2 million express packages were left stranded by delivery companies on Christmas Eve, according to shipment-tracking software developer ShipMatrix Inc. UPS experienced far more severe problems than FedEx. This year, UPS has allocated $500 million to expand and improve facilities and is hiring 95,000 seasonal workers - or 10,000 more than last year - to handle 2014 holiday packages. During its second-quarter conference call, UPS Chief Executive David Abney said "these projects will weigh on earnings in 2014" but pay off long-term. A spokesman declined to comment further ahead of UPS's next quarterly earnings, expected to be released on Friday. FedEx has said up to 90 percent of its $1.2 billion investments this year are to boost capacity. The company plans to hire 50,000 seasonal workers, up from 40,000 last year. Patrick Fitzgerald, senior vice president of marketing and communications at FedEx, said this year's capital investments would not affect the company's earnings forecast. The investment is designed to address the rapid growth of consumer goods ordered online. Through 2013, peak volume, referring to the busiest day of the year, had climbed 57 percent over five years at FedEx, to 22 million packages. It jumped 40 percent at UPS, to 31 million packages. Deloitte LLP predicts sales growth of up to 14 percent this holiday season, and FedEx said on Wednesday it expected peak-day package volumes to reach 22.6 million this year. The peaks have become more pronounced closer to Christmas as last-minute online free shipping deals have proliferated. Unchecked, those peaks will only grow worse, experts said. "The e-commerce shipping model isn't sustainable in its current form," said Yossi Sheffi, a professor of engineering systems and director of the Center for Transportation &amp; Logistics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). "You cannot build a shipping network to operate 365 days a year based on a spike in packages three days before Christmas."        PROTECTING THE CORE In a bid to better manage the peak, the shipping giants have asked retailers for clearer estimates of 2014 holiday volumes and have encouraged earlier deadlines for consumer orders. "We now have the kind of visibility we didn't before on what to expect from our largest customers," said UPS's Wallace. FedEx's Fitzgerald said customers could be disappointed if they offer last-minute sales without first consulting FedEx. "If we don't have the right discussions up-front, we may not be ready to handle" a sudden surge, Fitzgerald said.  In mid-August, Wal-Mart Stores Inc  gave its carriers its peak forecast, both by day and by shipping facility, three weeks earlier than usual. Contingency plans include shipping from alternate Wal-Mart distribution centers or upgrading packages to faster services if "deemed at risk" of missing Christmas, said spokeswoman Jaeme Lazckowski. Nordstrom Inc  has moved up its cutoff point for Christmas deliveries by three hours on Dec. 23, and UPS has agreed to additional last-minute flights for the company.  FedEx and UPS had no choice but to engage retailers in reducing peak loads and getting them to manage consumer expectations on realistic delivery deadlines, said veteran Cowan &amp; Co analyst Helane Becker. "They can't keep trying to squeeze more and more through such a narrow funnel," she said. Both FedEx and UPS are concerned about impact on their core business-to-business customers.  "When packages went undelivered last year, that also affected high-volume business customers," said Rick Jones, a former UPS executive and now CEO of regional delivery company Lone Star Overnight. "Have no doubt this is not about getting little Johnny his Christmas present. It's about protecting that core business." Logistics experts say the 2014 adjustments are a temporary fix, and more changes are needed for the 2015 holiday season. A price hike might help tackle ubiquitous free shipping offers, and negotiations with Amazon, in particular, likely will occur.  "What you will see is Amazon Prime with a little minus for the three days before Christmas - where free shipping doesn't apply," said MIT's Sheffi. "And Amazon will be able to blame UPS for it anyway." Amazon declined specific comment. "We work very closely with all of our delivery partners and are confident in their ability to deliver for Amazon customers this holiday," the company said in a statement.  FedEx's Fitzgerald said the company does not plan a 2015 price increase "at this point." A UPS spokesman said the company has focused on fixing last year's problems instead of pricing.  (Editing by David Greising and Matthew Lewis) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersUS Air Force handout photo of Lockheed Martin F-35B Lightning II fighter jetWASHINGTON (Reuters) - Lockheed Martin Corp  and U.S. defense officials have reached agreement on the terms of a contract worth about $4 billion for an eighth batch of 43 F-35 fighter jets, sources familiar with the deal said on Thursday. The contract will lower the cost of the radar-evading warplane by about 3 percent and includes jets to be built for the U.S. military, Britain and other U.S. allies, according to the sources, who were not authorized to speak publicly. The cost of the U.S. Air Force model of the plane, which accounts for 27 of the 43 aircraft, will go down by nearly 4 percent, said one of the sources. Both sides had expected to reach a deal in May or June, but the negotiations slowed after a June 23 engine failure on an Air Force jet grounded the entire F-35 fleet for several weeks. Lockheed Chief Financial Officer Bruce Tanner told analysts on Tuesday that the company was close to reaching a deal with the Pentagon office that runs the $399 billion weapons program, the costliest arms project. The Pentagon reached an agreement earlier this month with engine maker Pratt &amp; Whitney, a unit of United Technologies Corp  , that lowered the cost of the engines that will power the seventh batch of jets by 4.5 percent. Pratt expects to conclude an agreement with similar cost reductions for engines to power the eighth set of jets after the Lockheed deal is finalized. Lockheed, the Pentagon's No. 1 supplier, delivered the first airplane from the sixth lot of jets on Wednesday. It was the 23rd jet to be delivered this year of 36 that are due. Lockheed has said it has a plan to deliver all 36 jets that were slated for this year, despite the grounding earlier this summer and some flight restrictions that remain in place. Lockheed and the Pentagon said they were still finalizing the eighth Low-Rate Initial Production (LRIP 8). "We are encouraged by progress taking place and look forward to an agreement in the near future," said Lockheed spokesman Mike Rein.  (Reporting by Andrea Shalal; Editing by Mohammad Zargham) FREE AppDownload
Is New York City’s luxury housing bubble getting ready to pop? It’s a recurring and, as of late, frequent question — and one that industry heavyweights tackled Wednesday at the Urban Land Institute’s fall conference. Developments along the 57th Street corridor – dubbed Billionaires’ Row – have been cited most often as examples of an inflated market, thanks to eye-popping prices like the $34 million paid recently for a 4,483-square-foot condo at Extell Development’s One57.  Bruce Beal, president and general partner of Related Cos., noted that high land costs in the area helped spur the high-end projects, which also benefitted from investments of foreign capital.  “The question is how much more foreign capital is going to flow in here,” he said. “If you look domestically, you are unfortunately pricing out people who live here. Not everyone is a hedge fund manager,” said Beal. “I tend to think we’re kind of at the top of what really should be produced there now.”  Robert Toll, executive chairman of national homebuilder Toll Bros. Inc., acknowledged the push-and-pull felt by developers. “It seems like we hit the goal post last year,” he said, adding that it’s “difficult to pull the ripcord and say, ‘Enough.’” FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersMark Zuckerberg, founder and CEO of Facebook, reacts during an address to a gathering at the Internet.org Summit in New DelhiBy Saqib Iqbal Ahmed NEW YORK (Reuters) - Facebook Inc  investors used to wild swings in the company's shares following its earnings reports are looking for relative calm on Tuesday, after the social media company posts results. Facebook, whose shares rose 3 percent to a new year-high of  $80.63 on Thursday, is scheduled to report third-quarter results on Oct. 28. The cost of a Facebook straddle, in which an investor buys an at-the-money put option and a similar call option, suggests a move of about 7 percent in either direction by Oct. 31. That is short of the average move of about 10 percent in Facebook shares the day after the company reported results in the last eight quarters. The stock jumped as much as 14 percent in January, and nearly 30 percent in July last year when the company posted strong mobile advertising revenue. Given that average, the price of the straddle seems cheap, WhatsTrading.com options strategist Fred Ruffy said. Facebook's last two earnings reports showed growing strength in its mobile advertising business and have helped push the company's shares up nearly 31 percent over the last six months. The Standard &amp; Poor's 500 index rose 3.5 percent over that period. On Tuesday, Facebook investors will be looking for continuing signs that mobile ads are translating into revenue, to gauge if the company can keep up its recent momentum, said Baird Equity Research analyst Colin Sebastian. Facebook was the second busiest name in the options market on Thursday, with 191,000 calls and 153,000 puts traded, according to Livevol Inc data. Ophir Gottlieb, chief executive of Los Angeles-based Capital Market Laboratories LLC, argues that the relatively calm expectations for Facebook leaves the market exposed in case of a disappointment. "The risk into Facebook's earnings is just about lower than it has ever been into an earnings report, while at the same time the stock is trading at an all-time high," he said. The company's 30-day implied volatility, a measure of the risk of big moves in a stock, was at 40.53 percent on Thursday, in the 31st percentile of its 52-week range, Livevol data showed. That implies low expectations for wild gyrations next week, and any deviation from that could hit shares hard. With people increasingly accessing the Internet from smartphones and tablets, companies such as Facebook, Google Inc  and Twitter Inc  have been looking for ways to generate more revenue from mobile devices. "We think Facebook had a solid quarter and all of our checks appear to be positive," Sebastian said.  (Reporting by Saqib Iqbal Ahmed; Editing by Richard Chang) FREE AppDownload
It looks like Amazon's first smartphone hasn't been a hit. The company announced during quarterly earnings Thursday that it would take a $170 million charge for unsold Fire Phones and other related costs. The Fire Phone is sold exclusively through AT&amp;T in the US. Amazon said it had $83 million worth of unsold Fire Phones at the end of the third quarter this year. The Fire Phone went on sale this summer, but all indicators pointed to disappointing sales. Reviews were pretty bad across the board. Business Insider also stopped by several AT&amp;T stores during the Fire Phone's first few weeks and found that very few customers were buying the device.  Finally, Amazon and AT&amp;T also slashed the Fire Phone's price to $0.99 with a two-year contract in September, a sign that it wasn't selling well. It originally sold for $200 with a contract. Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through hispersonal investment company Bezos Expeditions. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonPfizer just announced a massive $11 billion share repurchase program. This is in addition to the $1.3 billion remaining under the company's current repurchase plan.  Pfizer said only that this repurchase would be completed "over time." In its second quarter earnings report in July, Pfizer said it expected that it would spend $5 billion over the balance of the year on share repurchases. In July, the company said that, "These 2014 repurchases and planned repurchases are expected to reduce total shares outstanding by approximately 100 million shares by the end of the year after factoring in actual and projected dilution related to employee compensation programs."  In after hours trade shares of Pfizer were up 1.4% following the announcement.  Pfizer is set to announce third quarter results on Tuesday, October 28 before the market open. FREE AppDownload
General Motors reported third-quarter earnings on Thursday. The carmaker missed Wall Street estimates, earning 81 cents per share, lower than the expected 97 cents. But GM chalked up the miss to one-time expenditures. Overall, the business in North America continues to perform well, especially where big SUVs are concerned. China operations are also strong, and even a trouble spot — Latin America — posted what GM called break-even numbers for the quarter.  Losses continue is Europe, but CEO Mary Barra said on a call with analysts after GM reported earnings that "operational improvements" continue there, even as GM's business in Russia weakens (GM isn't alone — Ford is also struggling to deal with a Russian auto market that isn't turning out to be so great, as the Ukrainian crisis grinds on and sanctions weaken the Russian economy). GM has been restructuring its European business ever since recovering from bankruptcy in 2009 — when the company briefly considered shedding Opel, its main European brand. Barra and CFO Chuck Stevens covered a lot of ground on the call — everything from profit margin expectations to the ongoing ignition-switch recall to the importance of Cadillac and mid-size pickup trucks. But an entertaining moment occurred when Morgan Stanley lead auto analyst Adam Jonas asked Barra to express her thoughts on what GM makes of various disruptive technologies in the industry, the frontiers of mobility and car sharing, and startups like Uber and Lyft. By way of background, Jonas isn't just the most out-there auto analyst on Wall Street — he's starting to give transportation futurists a run for their money. He recently predicted the "end of human driving," for example. And he's suggested that covering only carmakers isn't going to cut it for Wall Street auto analysts as the world of transportation...transforms. Barra took the question in stride — after all, she was being asked to discuss a time when GM won't be selling people individual cars! She sensibly deflected Jonas' query, but she acknowledged that the auto industry will see "more change in the next 5 to 10 years than in the past 50." "People will still need to get from point A to point B," she added, before stressing that GM is currently working on a number of initiatives, particularly those that involve what she called "urban mobility." Ford will report third-quarter earnings on Friday. It will be interesting to see if Jonas pursues this line of questioning with Ford's new CEO, Mark Fields, or whether he'll confine his more speculatively theorizing to Barra and GM. FREE AppDownload
Facebook's CEO wowed a crowd in Beijing by breaking out his newly-learned Mandarin.
Thomson ReutersAn eagle tops the U.S. Federal Reserve building's facade in WashingtonWASHINGTON (Reuters) - The U.S. Federal Reserve said on Thursday it would assume wider corporate bond spreads and a higher oil price in the most strenuous scenario it will use in next year's run of its annual check of banks' health. Overall, however, the Fed said its "severely adverse" scenario was largely similar to the one it had used in its 2014 run of the so-called stress tests, mandatory for any bank with assets of more than $50 billion. The tests were introduced after the 2007-09 financial crisis, and are an increasingly important part of the Fed's toolkit to make sure the largest banks stay safe, and to avoid a repeat of costly taxpayer bailouts. The Fed can bar a bank from raising shareholder payouts such as dividends or share buybacks if it fails to show it can survive the three increasingly dire hypothetical economic scenarios used in the stress tests. Reuters reported last week that the Fed is also considering using the tests as one of the tools it could use to prevent a buildup of excessive financial risk in the system, though there was no sign it would do so in 2015. The Fed's medium-severe, or adverse scenario, assumed a pickup in U.S. inflation and a resulting yield curve that was higher and flatter than in the baseline scenario, making it different from last year's adverse scenario.   (Reporting by Douwe Miedema; Editing by Peter Cooney) FREE AppDownload
 Stocks had a huge day on Thursday. And two of the big winners are super-huge, super-unsexy blue-chip companies: Caterpillar and 3M. Caterpillar and 3M, each a member of the Dow Jones Industrial Average, were each up by nearly 5% on Thursday after reporting earnings before the market open that topped expectations. Caterpillar on Thursday morning reported adjusted earnings per share of $1.72, topping expectations for $1.35 on revenue of $13.55 billion against expectations for $13.2 billion. Caterpillar, which is a global supplier of heavy construction and mining equipment with a $60 billion market cap, is often considered a reliable bellwether of economic activity. In the company's earnings statement, Caterpillar CEO Doug Oberhelman said, however, that global economic growth remained slower than the company would like to see. 3M, which is a classic conglomerate with a market cap of about $95 billion, posted third-quarter earnings per share of $1.98, topping expectations for $1.96, though the company's quarter sales disappointed, growing 2.8% to $8.1 billion, which was shy of expectations for $8.24 billion.  3M also narrowed its full-year earnings expectations slightly to $7.40 to $7.50 per share, from $7.30 to $7.55, and said sales are expected to grow 4% to 5% against previous expectations for growth of 3% to 6%.  In the third quarter, 3M paid out $550 million in dividends and repurchased $1.2 billion worth of its shares, converting 103% of its net income to free cash flow during the quarter. And as CNBC's Carl Quintanilla noted on Twitter, this is just a huge move in 3M, especially given that the company had a good quarter but not necessarily a complete blowout. Hard to overstate just how hard it is to move a name like $MMM by 7%+.  Best day for $MMM in 5 yrs.Best day for $CAT in 3 yrs.All-time high for $HD.All-time high for $TRV.  As we noted earlier this week amid IBM's fall, each 1-point move in a Dow stock moves the index by a little more than 6.4 points.  Near noon, the Dow was up about 250 points.   FREE AppDownload
Domino's AdReinvented pizza helped business.Domino's has executed an epic turnaround.  The company's profits soared 16% in the third quarter. Domino's also opened 160 new locations. Jesse Solomon at CNNMoney notes that Domino's made some crucial changes that turned around business.  "The pizza is actually better now, and the marketing campaigns are cheesy good instead of just cheesy," Solomon writes.  The shares have risen 30% in the past year.  In a recent earnings call with investors, Domino's CEO Patrick Doyle laid out a few reasons for the company's recent smash success.  Domino's has opened 1,800 new stores in 10 countries in the past four years, Doyle told investors. Domino's is thriving in emerging markets like Brazil and China because it is a relatively inexpensive luxury. The company said it is currently seeing growth in India, Turkey, and Japan.  Sales at Domino's have soared since the company came out with a new pizza recipe in 2009. Having a better core product was necessary for business to turn around.  Domino's has also innovated its sandwiches, pastas, and side dishes.  The "specialty chicken," strips topped with cheese and sauces increasingly ordered alongside pizzas, driving up the average ticket sale at Domino's, Doyle said.   Improving the menu has helped Domino's succeed over rivals like Pizza Hut and Papa John's.  Domino'sDomino's said specialty chicken is driving sales. Marketing guru Russell Weiner joined Domino's from Pepsi six years ago in the midst of a massive sales decline. Since then, he has implemented a self-deprecating marketing strategy that resonated with the consumer.  Domino's admitted that its pizza wasn't the greatest, and touted a new-and-improved product, helping to drive sales, QSR Magazine reports.  "We’ve always been viewed as providing good value to the consumer. We were not given credit for great-quality food," Weiner told the magazine in 2010. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe Amazon.com, Inc. logo is seen on the side of a delivery truck in Brooklyn, New YorSAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Amazon.com Inc's  sales projections for the crucial holiday quarter disappointed and third-quarter results missed Wall Street's targets, sending the online retailer's shares 7 percent lower. Amazon projected on Thursday net sales of between $27.3 billion and $30.3 billion for the holiday quarter, lagging the $30.89 billion analysts had expected on average.  (Reporting by Deepa Seetharaman; Editing by David Gregorio) FREE AppDownload
YouTubeStocks staged a big rally on Thursday, but came off their best levels late in the session after New York City officials confirmed late in the day that a healthcare worker who recently traveled to West Africa was being evaluated for Ebola-like symptoms. Earlier in the day on Thursday, stocks were on pace for their best day of the year, but still finished with gains bigger than 1% across the board. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Thursday: 1. Mega cap stocks were in focus on Thursday after Caterpillar and 3M rallied following their earnings reports. Caterpillar reported adjusted earnings per share of $1.72, better than the $1.35 expected by analysts, with revenue that rose to $13.55 billion against expectations for $13.2 billion. In its earnings statement, the company, which is often seen an economic bellwether, said: "From an economic perspective, we believe there is a reasonable likelihood that world economic growth could improve in 2015. In developed countries, growth-oriented monetary policies should support continued modest economic improvement." Caterpillar shares finished the day up 5%. 2. 3M shares also gained 5% after the conglomerate reported earnings per share that beat expectations by $0.02, though its quarterly revenue came in a little light. Shares of the Dow member rallied however, as the company narrowed both its full-year earnings and revenue outlooks. In the third quarter, 3M also said that it converted 103% of its net income to free cash flow.  3. Late afternoon reports indicated that a healthcare worker in New York City who had been traveling in West Africa, was being evaluated at New York City's Bellevue Hospital after experiencing Ebola-like symptoms. These reports, which broke just before 3:00 pm ET, took the stock market off its best levels of the day. Shares of Lakeland Industries, which makes hazmat suits and has been rallying over the last couple weeks as fears regarding Ebola have spread, spiked higher following the news. New York City health officials later confirmed that a patient was being tested for Ebola, with the results expected within 12 hours. 4. The weekly report on initial jobless claims showed that claims rose 17,000 from last week to 283,000, slightly above the 281,000 that was expected by economists. This reading, however, brought the four-week moving average down to 281,000, the lowest level since May 6, 2000. Following the report, Chris Rupkey at MUFG said, "The labor market is still strong and any slack remaining is just a figment of the Federal Reserve's imagination." 5. Also on the economic data front, Markit's US flash manufacturing PMI for October came in at 56.2, down from last month's 57.5 and below expectations for a reading of 57.0. This was the lowest reading for the report since July, and the report's new business subindex showed that new orders rose by the least in nine months.  6. Sears is planning to close stores. Business Insider's Ashley Lutz, citing a company spokesperson, reported that the company will close stores, but said that a Seeking Alpha report, which said Sears would close more than 100 stores and lay off 5,5000 wasn't accurate. "As we have previously communicated, adjusting our physical footprint to focus on our best performing locations is a core component of our transformation," the company said. 7. Shares of GT Advanced, the Apple sapphire supplier that earlier this month unexpectedly declared bankruptcy, said in a statement on Thursday that the company would exit the production of sapphire materials and shut down its factories in Arizona and Massachusetts. Following the announcement, shares of the company currently trading over the counter rose more than 40%. Don't Miss: Bill Ackman's Big Pharma Trade Is Making Wall Street A Very Awkward Place » FREE AppDownload
Flickr/n.bhupinderMicrosoft CEO Satya NadellaMicrosoft earnings are out, and they're solid.  Here are the two numbers that matter: The stock was up 4% after hours. We spoke with Chris Suh, head of investor relations at Microsoft after the report. He said the company did well across the board, but revenue growth was driven by its consumer group. In particular, hardware sales. This quarter includes Nokia sales, which didn't exist a year ago. However, even if you back out Nokia phone sales, Microsoft revenue was up 11%, says Suh.  Another thing that helped was the Xbox business, which doubled on a year-over-year basis thanks to a new console. Suh said that Microsoft's Surface business was "slightly" profitable on a gross margin basis. So, what does that mean? Gross Margin just means revenue minus the cost to build.  It doesn't include marketing costs, which are pretty massive for Microsoft with the Surface. All those Surfaces on NFL sidelines aren't free. So, the Surface is losing money overall. But, it seems to be trending in the right direction. Also of note, the phone business is also losing money, though it's not broken out in the release. It's not all hardware for Microsoft, of course. Its cloud businesses represented by Office 365 and Azure grew 128%. Last quarter Microsoft said those businesses were on a $4.4 billion revenue run rate. It didn't break out numbers this quarter, but Suh it was bigger this quarter than last. (Office 365 is the bigger of the two businesses, but Azure is catching up.) Suh said that the reason EPS dropped on a year-over-year basis due to restructuring charges. Suh says that if you back out those charges, then the company's EPS grew.  Here are Microsoft's bullet points from the report.  Microsoft FREE AppDownload
AP Photo / LM OteroThe Ebola trade is back. Shares of Lakeland Industries are spiking after reports that a doctor who treated Ebola patients has been rushed to a New York City hospital after suffering from Ebola-like symptoms. Lakeland, which makes hazmat suits and has been rallying as reports about Ebola cases in the US have circulated the last couple weeks, are spiking following the news, gaining as much as 11%. Some of the other stocks that were a part of the Ebola trade, including Alpha Pro Tech and Tekmira, were off their worst levels of the day following the news. Following the reports, the broader stock market, which was also enjoying a huge rally on Thursday, was off its best levels of the day. FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesMario DraghiBack in June the ECB initiated a small negative interest rate on deposits held at the ECB.  Over the last 5 years we’ve repeatedly heard economists and other pundits say that Central Banks just need to reduce the demand for Excess Reserves by charging a negative interest rate and that this would surely cause inflation to increase as banks would lend out their reserves or “stop sitting” on their money (as Scott Sumner likes to say). So, we’re almost 6 months into this policy change and what can we conclude thus far?  Well, as I stated back in June, this policy wasn’t likely to have much of an impact and in fact, the Eurozone has deteriorated since then.   Chart 1 shows the level of bank lending since the beginning of the year.  Clearly, the ECB’s negative rate policy isn’t forcing banks to “stop sitting on their money”: Cullen Roche Sumner also claimed that “If they did [charge a penalty] it would be easy to get inflation expectations up to 2%.”  But the rate of inflation has continued to decline since then: Cullen Roche Of course, the misguided thinking on this stems from the myth that banks lend their reserves in some money multiplier style fashion or that the Central Bank can control the rate of inflation directly by steering the banks to act in precise ways.  But bank lending is primarily a demand side function so supply side economics doesn’t apply to the degree that some economists seem to think.   This isn’t rocket science, but very smart people, even after all this time, continue to misunderstand the importance of bank lending and endogenous money…. Thus far, it’s pretty clear that this policy is having no discernible positive impact on either lending or the broader economy. FREE AppDownload
Here is a quick follow-up to the discussion on the looming rental crisis in the US. The gap in growth rates of rental costs vs. wages continues to widen. This divergence is creating a drag on the GDP growth by suppressing household formation, consumer spending, and labor mobility. Over time this trend will also increase homelessness. FRED FREE AppDownload
GT Advanced Technologies said it reached an agreement with Apple under which GT Advanced would exit the production of sapphire materials.  The company will shut down its factories in Mesa, Arizona, and Salem, Massachusetts, the company said in a statement on Thursday. Under the terms of the agreement, GT Advanced will be released from all exclusivity obligations with Apple and a mechanism will be provided for the iPhone maker to recover its $439 million prepayment to GT Advanced, without interest. In afternoon trade following the news, GT Advanced shares that were trading over the counter under the ticker 'GTATQ' were up more than 45% to about $0.78.  The announcement from GT Advanced follows the company's initial bankruptcy announcement on Oct. 6, which caught the market flat-footed and sent shares of the company tumbling by more than 90%. GT Advanced shares closed below $1 on a Monday after closing near $11 the previous Friday. Following that announcement, many on Wall Street and in the industry were left scratching their heads, though at least one analyst Business Insider spoke to at the time surmised that something must have gone awry in the agreement between Apple and GT Advanced. In November 2013, the two companies announced a $578 million supply agreement in which GT Advanced would manufacture sapphire materials for Apple. And ahead of Apple's iPhone 6 launch, many speculated that the new phone would feature a full sapphire display. Shares of GT Advanced took a huge hit after that failed to materialized.    In a statement on Thursday, GT Advanced CEO Tom Gutierrez said: "We realize that our filing for Chapter 11 protection has caused uncertainty and hardship for many of our important stakeholders. We have been working diligently to develop a restructuring plan that will allow us to emerge from Chapter 11 as quickly as possible and with the operating flexibility and resources to position GT for long-term success. This agreement with Apple is an important step in that direction as it will allow us to monetize our advanced sapphire growth and fabrication technologies in an unrestricted manner." As a result of GT's decision to close its sapphire operations, it will lay off approximately 650 employees at its Mesa plant, which the company initially built to produce sapphire for Apple.  You can read the full statement from GT Advanced here.  FREE AppDownload
Stocks are flying higher again, but some headlines related to a potential Ebola case in New York City is putting stocks under some pressure. In afternoon trade on Thursday, the Dow was up 235 points, the S&amp;P 500 was up 25 points, and the Nasdaq was up 70 points. In afternoon trade on Thursday, the Dow was up as much as 300 points, the S&amp;P 500 was up as much as 34 points, and the Nasdaq was up as much as 91 points. On a percentage basis, these gains were good for a 1.8% advance in the Dow, a 1.7% advance in the S&amp;P, and a 2% advance in the Nasdaq. In the commodity space, oil is bouncing back after an ugly close on Wednesday, and on Thursday oil was up 1.5% to north of $81.75 a barrel. Gold was falling, with the precious metal down 1.5%, while platinum was down 1.8%. The blue-chip Dow Jones Industrial Average was leading gains, led by a 4% advance in shares of economic bellwether Caterpillar, which reported better-than-expected results on Thursday morning. Dow member 3M was also having a huge day, with shares of the conglomerate gaining more than 5% after its earnings report on Thursday morning.  On the economic data front, the initial report on weekly jobless claims showed claims rose slightly from last week but remained near multiyear lows, with the four-week moving average of claims at its lowest level since May 2000.  In the US, Markit's flash manufacturing PMI came in at 56.2, below expectations for a 57.0 but indicating growth in the US manufacturing sector, though the report's new business growth measure showed new orders rose the most in nine months. In stock news, shares of Chiquita Banana were up more than 6% after the company received an increased takeover offer from Cutrale-Safra, while Yelp shares were down as much as 13% after the company on Wednesday night reported earnings that missed expectations.  FREE AppDownload
Mike NudelmanSo you got funded and you're the CEO — oddly terrifying, really, that you should be so unprepared for the biggest job of your life. Here's the crash course you didn't know you needed.  As CEO what do you do and not do? Often companies come unglued at the top when first-time CEOs exercise their right to freely invade, well, anything and everything. This might work for awhile, but you will never build a strong company this way. The tendency to meddle comes from a fundamental misunderstanding of the CEO job. It is one of several first-time sins. Here's how to avoid them:  The only way to scale is through higher quality people. Most early stage companies don't talk about people nearly enough. As CEO, talk about people all the time. In one-on-ones with your leadership team, make sure you ask about the quality and performance of their direct reports. It is the number one agenda item in each of these meetings.  Paul English, cofounder of Kayak, runs an on-going, mental enthusiasm test: When he walks down a corridor of cubes, he asks himself who he is excited to see. Those that he is not excited to see need to improve or move out. Develop your awareness of people in the same way.  Finally, talk about people at your weekly leadership team meetings. What would it mean to the company if you could get a star engineer or sales person to join you? This reminds your team that you are thinking about recruiting and people incessantly.  Up to a certain size, say 200 employees, insist on a short meeting with any finalist candidate for a new job — any job — in the company. Your role is not to test their functional capacity to do the job; it is to test for cultural fit. Will they add or subtract from the energy? You want the best people you can afford in all roles.  Putting a final stamp on new hires has several other benefits: It will make hiring managers exercise more scrutiny over their choices if final candidates have to pass muster with you; it sends a strong message to the new employee that people matter, and that she has access to you, too.  About 30% of your office time should be unscheduled. Don't squander this time on email. Get out of your office or cube. Walk around purposefully, and be seen in informal ways. One thing I like to do is drop in on a small group of product or engineering colleagues and ask them what they are working on — and why. Just listen. Express enthusiasm. If you have comments, make them, but this is not a strategy session. Thank them for their hard work, and tell them to have lunch on you today at the Mexican place downstairs. If you think they are misguided, talk to their manager, but don't undermine the manager in front of the group.  You might also grab someone for an impromptu one-on-one, or debate a partnership or strategy issue that's been on your mind. Unscheduled time is critical to your creativity and leadership.  Lastly, establish a calendar buddy, someone preferably who is a CEO also, in an unrelated industry. Every month, write him a short email stating your key priorities, give him access to your calendar, and ask him to assess whether you really used your time well. You will be surprised.  Mike Nudelman Jack Dorsey of Twitter and Square likens the CEO job, and leadership generally, to an editorial task: editing for great ideas and people, and editing out the bad. I like this metaphor but would add that the CEO needs to be alert for contrarian opportunities.  When everyone thinks things are great, ask yourself where you could stumble, and talk with the leadership team more about competitive threats. Be overtly contrarian, even paranoid. When things are bad, the CEO is the single most important voice reassuring everyone that there will be better days. Do this in a reasoned way, explain with data why you think circumstances will improve, and discuss what needs to be done.  One reason you are CEO is that you are a doer, a person of action. Yet one of the hardest things is to stop fixing every little problem you see. Establish focal length. When you see a problem, first ask yourself: Should I fix this myself, delegate it, or ignore it? It will keep you from meddling, for one; and it will put pressure on your managers to do their jobs better.  If you are temperamental, take it outside. Go for a walk. Employees mirror the mood of the CEO more than they should, but it's a fact. If you slouch and look glum, they think something is wrong with the business. If you are a screamer, well, nothing good comes of that. If you want to complain, do so at home. Don't indulge in office gossip either. You have a different role than any other in the company. Honor it.  Manage your board and investors — don't let them interfere unnecessarily. Stay close enough to large expenditures and projects to kill them if it's clear they will not create value. One of the places where CEO interference, if you will, should be tolerated is in removing distraction. It also sends a message that operational excellence, clarity of thought and strategy, is of paramount importance.  Figure out what you do best, what no one else can do as well as you — partnerships, sales, product development, fund-raising. Ask your leadership team for their assessment of your strengths. Then assign yourself to focus on those things. With everything else, fill in with the most talented people you can find.  George Bell is a five-time CEO and an XIR at the Cambridge-based venture capital firm General Catalyst Partners. FREE AppDownload
Ballet prodigy, author and star of the Under Armour commercials, Misty Copeland, gives us the secret to how dancers maintain their long, lean look. Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis. Additional camera by Sam Rega. Follow BI Video: On YouTube  
Hillary Clinton suggested women are owed money due to gender income disparities in a fiery campaign speech on Tuesday. "Ask yourself why ... we still act as if it's 1955," Clinton said. "The fact that women still get paid less than men for the same work costs them and their families thousands of dollars every year." Clinton went on to envision what women could do with the additional income when they are paid as much as men.  "Imagine what a working mom could do with the money she is owed. That extra money, she could use it to rent or even buy a better home for her kids and herself. Those groceries she could buy. That car payment she could make," Clinton said. Clinton was speaking in a packed hotel ballroom in Manhattan to endorse New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo (D), who appears to be easily coasting to re-election and likely does not need Clinton's support to win. However, the two have close ties: Cuomo once served in former President Bill Clinton's administration and Hillary Clinton represented New York in the US Senate from 2001 through 2009. Clinton, whose 2008 presidential campaign was unsuccessful, poked fun at herself and said she knows not to expect a win in any race, even when a candidate has a wide lead like Cuomo's. "We can't take anything for granted in an election," she said. "I know that from firsthand experience." FREE AppDownload
Mike Nudelman/Business InsiderWall Street is the kind of place where sometimes truth is better than fiction. Remember, Martin Scorcese's 2013 smash 'Wolf of Wall Street'  was based on one former financier's memoir, proving sometimes you can't make this stuff up. And there are a million of these stories all over The Street. They run the gamut from multi-billion trading losses to messy divorces and millionaire madams. So here are the 10 true Wall Street sagas — and the corresponding must-cast actors — that should be movies.  This story was first published on November 19th, 2013. FREE AppDownload
Former Washington Post editor Robert G. Kaiser has written an essay for The Brookings Institution on the decline of America's newspapers with devastating takeaways for those with a vested interest in the industry. All in all, the big traditional news outlets have been slow to adapt to the new media environment. People have changed their news consumption habits, ad dollars have fled out the door, and fewer and fewer people are willing to pay for news at all.  The entire essay is a fascinating dissection of how the internet has changed newspapers and the news industry in general, but we've picked out a few of the big takeaways here. FREE AppDownload
Remember when people argued Sweden was a model economy?  Fifteen months (and a scandalous mutiny) later, a lot has changed.  Deflation has arrived, just as former deputy governor Lars Svensson predicted before stepping down over resistance to rate cuts. The latest CPI number in September was -0.4%.  The current repo rate is 0.25%, and the Sweden's central bank, the Sveriges Riksbank, is expected to cut it another 10-20 basis points at its policy meeting next week. The chart to the right illustrates what the Riksbank's recent repo rates (and official forecast) look like.  The bank officially says it will keep rates flat, and expects to raise them in late 2015. Other experts are less optimistic. Morgan Stanley's Marcus Gedai and Elga Bartsch wrote in a note this week that they expect the bank to cut the rate by 10 basis points at this meeting, leaving itself room to cut even more later if needed. Walker England over at Daily FX thinks there's going to be an even bigger 15-20 bp cut. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Suzanne PlunkettBritish grocery chain Tesco is the country's biggest supermarket, Europe's largest private employer, and the world's second-largest retailer — second only to Walmart. And it's a total basket case. After revealing in late September that it overstated profits by £250 million, the grocer revised that number upward today to £263 million, culminating in the resignation of Tesco's chairman, Sir Richard Broadbent.  Tesco's new CEO Dave Lewis has been left to pick up the pieces, while at the same time dealing with a separate but equally massive problem: disastrous global sales results. The share price has dropped by more than half in the last 12 months. So what went wrong? FREE AppDownload
ReutersPershing Square CEO Bill Ackman.Things are getting awkward on Wall Street, and Bill Ackman is at the center of it.  Perhaps it was only a matter of time. The unpleasantness concerns the dogged attempts the activist investor and the pharmaceutical company Valeant have made to purchase the Botox maker Allergan. From the beginning, the situation has been fraught with the kind of moments that make one bristle, like the time DealBook's Andrew Ross Sorkin said the controversial pile-on was "too clever by half" — due to the fact that Ackman's firm had amassed a 10% stake in Allergan, effectively limiting the company's freedom to decide its fate.  Or there was the moment when Allergan sued Valeant and Ackman for insider trading, alleging that they colluded to make an offer for the company in February. Or when the SEC launched its own insider-trading investigation into the now-$56 billion matter. These were all uncomfortable moments. But they weren't personal. They were part of the usual Wall Street ebb and flow of drama and information. But on Tuesday, people started veering into more discourteous territory. It happened at the annual Grant's Interest Rate Observer conference at the Plaza Hotel, where Ackman did a short interview. The event was hosted by Jim Grant, the editor and founder of the Observer. He looks like Bill Nye but nerdier (if you can imagine), with glasses so thick you might think they could ask questions themselves.   REUTERS/Brendan McDermid Jim Grant, of Grant's Interest Rate Observer. The interview began at 2 p.m., and Grant went straight after the elephant in the room — the Valeant-Allergan deal. "May I call you Bill, or do you prefer 'Alpha'?" Grant asked playfully before launching into a series of questions. Before we go any further into this story, you should know that short-seller Jim Chanos, CEO of Kynikos Associates, was sitting in the crowd. Chanos is famously short Valeant. He says it is an accounting rollup that lacks organic growth. Ackman knew Chanos was in the crowd, because during the lunch lecture (about 20 minutes before Ackman's interview), Chanos asked a question in front of everyone present. Now, back to Ackman's interview. As Grant asked the same questions about Valeant-Allergan that critics have been asking for months — "Does the company actually make money?" "Does Valeant overpay for its acquisitions?" "Doesn't it need to spend money on R&amp;D?" — Ackman started to bristle a bit. Suddenly, he turned toward Grant. "Are you short because your daughter is working for Jim Chanos?" he asked pointedly. The room went silent, as it would the moment after your drunkest uncle goes on a tirade at Thanksgiving dinner. Ackman was correct. Jim Grant's daughter does in fact work for Kynikos, and her boss was sitting right in the room. This was very personal. Ackman went on to say that his hedge fund didn't usually invest in companies that grew by making acquisitions — "rollups" as they're called — like Valeant. Rollups can be dangerous. If you're not careful, the companies can write off losses or hide them using aggressive acquisition accounting.  However, Ackman argued, Valeant was a special case: a company that does so many acquisitions that generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) don't really apply to it. To understand Valeant, you have to think outside the normal rules of engagement. The crowd was physically present for those comments, but many in attendance were not actually there. They were still about five minutes in the past with Jim Grant's daughter and Jim Chanos.  This is how awkward the Valeant-Allergan trade has gotten. REUTERS/Mike Cassese Activist shareholder Bill Ackman of Pershing Square Capital Management during the Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. shareholders and analysts meeting in Toronto on Feb. 6, 2012. Of course, Chanos and Ackman have been at this for months. Back in June, Ackman accused Chanos of covering his Valeant short, which Chanos denied.  Chanos thinks that GAAP rules, the accounting method by which people typically assess a company's finances, do apply to Valeant. And by GAAP calculations, he says, the company doesn't actually make any money. It just cannibalizes its acquisitions' products like a bloated deer tick, moving on to the next company when its old acquisitions aren't producing enough revenue to sustain its size.  Once Valeant stops buying, though, according to Chanos' theory, the numbers will normalize and the company's lack of revenue will become tragically obvious. Until then there is room for argument everywhere. Penn State accounting professor J. Edward Ketz walked through the numbers with ProPublica's Jesse Eisinger in June. Ketz combed through Valeant's cash flow and factored in the cost of buying companies and bringing them into the Valeant fold. According to Ketz’s calculations, Valeant was negative $5.4 billion in 2013. In the past four years it has lost $1 billion annually. Allergan must be doing the same math, because this question about Valeant's actual growth is the reason it has given for stiff-arming Ackman-Valeant every step of the way. It did not care that Valeant beat third-quarter earnings forecasts in October. Allergan, in a public disclosure, argued that Valeant's earnings release lacked sufficient information about individual products and showed a lack of sales growth that was masked by increased prices. But so what? A critical professor and a skeptical short seller ... that's par for the course.  What made this week unique and gave the situation yet another special, personal kind of awkwardness was a sudden defection from the Ackman-Valeant camp.  REUTERS/Chip EastJohn Paulson of Paulson & Co.In July, John Paulson, the CEO of hedge fund Paulson &amp; Co., told CNBC that he — a stakeholder in both Allergan and Valeant — supported Ackman and Valeant in their attempt to purchase Allergan. Paulson is, for the most part, an event-driven investor. In other words, he tries to figure out when something's going to happen — or sometimes to nudge it along — and places a big bet on the outcome. For Ackman-Valeant, a vote of confidence from another multibillion-dollar hedge fund must have felt pretty good given all the controversy surrounding the deal. But last week Paulson changed his mind and decided that maybe Allergan shouldn't be acquired after all. Instead, he suggested that Allergan purchase another pharma company, Shire — a move that would effectively leave the Valeant-Ackman deal dead in the water. A representative of Paulson's called Allergan to feel out the deal, according to The New York Times. Why would Paulson do this? Shire, as it happens, is his biggest position in the stock market, and last week it started bleeding. Shire was supposed to merge with AbbVie, another pharma company, but the deal was canceled. The Obama administration is cracking down on tax inversions, and a planned inversion was part of what made the AbbVie/Shire deal particularly attractive. That news sent Shire's stock plunging 23%. Paulson was reportedly down $1.5 billion as a result. So he needs another event. Allergan's shareholders — the biggest of whom is Ackman, with an almost 10% stake — cannot vote on whether to accept Valeant's offer until the company's shareholder meeting in December. However, a lawsuit in California could disenfranchise Ackman completely. Allergan is suing Valeant and Ackman for allegedly engaging in insider trading while constructing their deal to team up and buy it. This is all based on SEC Rule 14 e-3. Basically, if company A is planning to take over company B, anyone with knowledge of that takeover can't trade in company B once company A has started to make moves to bid for the company. If Ackman loses, he could lose his vote in the shareholder meeting.  "This case is about the improper and illicit insider-trading scheme hatched in secret by a billionaire hedge fund investor on the one hand and a public-company serial acquirer on the other hand," the complaint alleges. "The method the Defendants chose was to operate in secret, flouting key provisions of the federal securities laws designed to protect investors from precisely this type of predatory conduct." For their part, Ackman and Valeant say they intended to do a merger, not buy the company outright. Ackman and Valeant CEO Mike Pearson started meeting about Allergan in February. At that time, according to Allergan's complaint, they signed an agreement saying they would not make a tender offer for Allergan. That would be a violation of SEC rule 14 e-3. Some of those February meetings also included Mason Morfit, the president of the activist hedge fund ValueAct Capital, a major shareholder in Valeant, according to court filings.  REUTERS/Christinne Muschi J. Michael Pearson, chairman of the board and chief executive officer of Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc., during their annual general meeting in Laval, Quebec, on May 20.At about this time, Ackman's fund Pershing Square created a separate fund called PS Fund 1, which promptly started purchasing Allergan shares. On April 10, Valeant contributed a small amount to that fund.  PS Fund 1's stake in Allergan reached 9.7% on April 21, and the following day, Pershing and Valeant announced that they would attempt a "friendly merger" between Valeant and Allergan, with Ackman's financial support. A deal structured like this — between a public company and a private investor — had never before been seen on Wall Street. It was stunning ... apparently too stunning for Allergan to accept. "This litigation is a complete waste of time, OK?" Ackman said during his deposition for Allergan's case. "I'm happy to stay here for five hours, OK, I'm going to do it, I know it's your job; um, but if I can deliver a message to the Board, OK, it's a complete waste of time. We did not stake one step, not one step for doing a tender offer, nor did Valeant, OK? Not one." The SEC has launched an insider-trading investigation into the matter as well. The aim, here, is to dissect these semantics to discover whether there was always an intent to buy Allergan. As Dealbook's Sorkin pointed out, Pearson said on a conference call: “On April 22, we announced our offer for Allergan. We suspected at the time it would ultimately have to go directly to Allergan shareholders. We were correct.” That's the kind of language lawyers in this case will be poring over. In Ackman's agreement with Valeant, Pershing Square and Valeant are referred to as "co-bidders" — as in to buy the company — instead of "joint venturers" — as in to merge with it. During his deposition, Ackman was asked whether he had drafted that language. He said he had not. Here's how Ackman handled the issue: Question: Referring back to Exhibit 1 for a moment, it states that on February 6 Mr. Ackman and Mr. Pearson had a telephone call to discuss conceptually a potential transaction structure in which Valeant would identify a target and disclose it confidentially to Pershing Square. Do you see that? Answer: Yes. Q: Whose idea was that, that structure? A: Oh, the transaction structure? I mean, it's some combination of myself and Mr. Pearson that came out of that conversation. Q: What do you recall about what you discussed? A: Maybe we can work together to buy — to help you acquire a company. Q: I'm just reading, a potential transaction structure in which Valeant would identify a target, disclose it to you confidentially? A: Right. Q: And then you could decide whether you were interested in working with ... A: I'm not sure I would call it a transaction structure but ... Q: A discussion structure maybe? A: A discussion structure is probably a better word to describe it. This case rests on the difference between a "structure" and a "discussion," between a "bidder" and a "venturer." It rests on semantics. Of course, Valeant-Ackman are not taking this aggression lightly. Earlier this month, Ackman told reporters in Toronto that his lawyers had seen proof that Allergan's board was misleading its investors about Valeant. Allergan was not amused. “We believe this is another blatant attempt by Valeant and Pershing Square to try to distract shareholders from the serious insider-trading allegations Allergan has raised," a representative from Allergan responded. "We believe there is no evidence that supports Valeant and Pershing Square’s counterclaims, and Allergan will defend itself vigorously. Allergan stands by its statements regarding the unsustainability of Valeant’s business, and we welcome the opportunity for a full hearing on Valeant’s business model at the appropriate time.” On Tuesday, Allergan's insider-trading suit will have a preliminary injunction hearing that could render Ackman's voting shares useless until the case is over. And the case may not be resolved until after the Dec. 18 Allergan board meeting.  Which should make for a pretty awkward session. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersAn American Airlines passenger jet comes in the land at LaGuardia airport in New YorkBy Jeffrey Dastin (Reuters) - Several U.S. airlines reported strong third-quarter profits on Thursday, helped by falling fuel costs, with many topping Wall Street's earnings per share estimates. The results sent most airline stocks higher. The exception was United Airlines  which fell 1.4 percent after it projected unit revenue for the current quarter below Wall Street's expectations. However, the Chicago-based carrier as well as American Airlines  and Delta Air Lines  eased concerns about a drop in travel after saying Ebola had not affected their bookings for the year. Investors are scrutinizing airlines for signs that the current quarter could be disrupted if the spread of the Ebola virus were to discourage travel and hurt the airlines' bottom lines. United anticipates passenger revenue per available seat mile to be between a decrease of 1 percent and an increase of 1 percent for the current quarter because of charges related to reconciling interline tickets carried over from last year. "We believe the Street did not remember to (account for) this," Cowen &amp; Co analyst Helane Becker said in a note circulated Thursday, adding that its stock should rebound after United's earnings call that concluded around 11:30 AM Eastern. American reported the largest net income at $942 million for last quarter, up nearly 87 percent compared to the combined incomes of American and US Airways last year before they merged in December 2013. The Fort Worth-based carrier, the world's largest by passenger traffic, also earned $1.66 per share, excluding special items, beating analysts' estimates of $1.63, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. Its revenue  was $11.1 billion, up 4.4 percent form a year ago. Declining prices cut American's jet fuel costs by 1.3 percent, directly improving its bottom line because the airline does not hedge against these prices. United posted a profit of $924 million, a gain of nearly 144 percent compared with last year. Diluted earnings per share were $2.75 without special charges, topping analysts' consensus estimate of $2.68. Total revenue increased 3.3 percent to about $10.6 billion, slightly beating Wall Street's expectations. Southwest Airlines  reported net profit rose about 27 percent to $329 million in the third quarter, following months of new route announcements overseas and from Dallas Love Field airport. Diluted earnings per share of $0.55 for the third quarter, excluding special items, were ahead of the Wall Street average estimate of $0.53, and up from 34 cents in the same period last year. "Thus far, revenue momentum has continued into October 2014, with favorable load factor and unit revenue trends. Current bookings for November and December are also good," Southwest said. JetBlue Airways  earned $0.24 per diluted share without special items, falling short of the Wall Street estimate of $0.26. JPMorgan analyst Jamie Baker said in a note that the New York-based carrier was "poised to guide up." Analysts expect President Robin Hayes, who will take over as chief executive in February, to herald change at the airline to boost its profitability. Hayes said there were plans to add to the company's return to capital during a conference call Thursday morning but did not disclose any pending changes at the airline. JetBlue's net income rose about 11 percent to $79 million, compared to the third quarter last year.  (Reporting By Jeffrey Dastin; Editing by Alwyn Scott and Tom Brown) FREE AppDownload
CFA InstituteJames MontierIf you agree with the economist John Maynard Keynes that “ideas shape the course of history,” then you ought to agree that the history of modern business and finance has been shaped by one influential idea: that the job of a company’s management is to maximize shareholder value. But according to James Montier, a distinguished investment professional and behavioural finance writer, shareholder value maximization is “a bad idea.” He believes it has not added any value for shareholders and it has contributed to major economic and social problems of short-termism and rising inequality. Montier made his case against shareholder value maximization when delivering the closing keynote address at the 2014 European Investment Conference in London. In his characteristic iconoclastic style with a generous use of ironic humour, Montier labelled shareholder value maximization, the way Jack Welch, the former CEO of GE, had once described it in 2009, “the dumbest idea in the world.” An academic opinion without much evidence  Montier said that the idea of shareholder value maximization didn’t come from businesses but rather originated as an opinion in academia, unsupported by much evidence. It is most directly traced to an op-ed written by economist Milton Friedman in 1970. Over the years, academic research papers on the subject, such as those by Jensen and Meckling (1976) and Jensen and Murphy (1990), have made it inseparable from the alignment of incentives. That is, top management of companies should be offered financial incentives (e.g., stock ownership and call options) to align its interest with maximizing stock price. The idea of shareholder value and incentives then worked their way into practice. Montier gave the example of Business Roundtable (BRT), an association of CEOs of major US companies. He said that in 1981, the mission of BRT referred to making quality goods and services, earning a profit, and building the economy, but by 1997, it became firmly focused on shareholder value. Failing shareholders  Montier claimed that shareholder value maximization has failed the shareholders, its intended beneficiaries. Despite enormous increases in compensation of CEOs and a rising proportion of financial incentives through stock ownership and options, shareholders are not better off. To illustrate this point with a case example, Montier compared the return performance of IBM, which switched its focus to shareholder value maximization, to that of Johnson &amp; Johnson, which retained its credo emphasizing responsibility to customers, employees, and communities. Montier showed that during 1971–2013, the stock of Johnson &amp; Johnson had indeed outperformed that of IBM. Widening his analysis, Montier asserted that during 1940–1990, what he called “the managerial era,” the annual real return to shareholders in listed equities was 7%. After after the nineties, during “the shareholder value maximization era,” it was also about 7%. But, he added, when adjusted for changes in valuation independent of shareholder value maximization, isolating yield and growth, the return in the shareholder value maximization era lags by about 2 percentage points. What went wrong  Montier said that financial incentives for management that were meant to maximize shareholder value did not work because of a flawed understanding of how human beings respond to incentives. Under the mantra of shareholder value maximization, CEOs are now being paid more than ever before and about two-thirds of that compensation is in the form of stock ownership and stock options. Call options, which only pay off if stock prices rise, encourage short-term gaming by CEOs rather than long-term value creation. More importantly, as research from behavioural finance shows, when incentives become large, those being incentivized become obsessed with the incentives themselves and lose sight of what the incentives are meant to achieve. Montier believes that rather than focusing on the long-term prosperity of their businesses, CEOs are focusing on how much more money they can make if they can game the system. Instead of observing reality and deducing their theories from what they see, economists  supporting  shareholder value maximization tried to fit available facts to their opinions about incentives and human behaviour. Montier quoted Ronald Reagan: “An economist is someone who sees something happen in practice and wonders if it’d work in theory.”  A cause of short-termism and inequality  Montier contended that shareholder value maximization and financial incentives are a direct cause of short-termism and inequality. The life span of a S&amp;P 500 company has decreased from more than 26 years in 1971–1976 to close to 15 years in 2005–2010, and tenure of a CEO has shrunk from 10 years to 6 years. Private companies, not subject to the same pressures for short-termism, invest more than public companies, and chief financial officers of listed companies are willing to forego projects with positive net present value to make quarterly earnings targets. From “retain and reinvest”, companies have moved to “downsize and distribute.” It is hard to argue that companies do not have ample investment opportunities available to them in the real economy, but many companies are instead buying back shares, often at record high prices. Connecting short-termism with its effects on society and economy, Montier pointed to “three stylized facts”: (1) Business investment as a percentage of GDP is declining; (2) there is rising income inequality in society, and the share of income of business executives and financier has increased dramatically; and (3) labor is losing its share of GDP. Short-termism and inequality hurt our societies and economies, suggested Montier. There are fewer new projects and jobs because companies are preoccupied with meeting quarterly earnings targets. There is also less spending in the economy, slowing down our economic growth, as those who spend a higher proportion of their income have a lower share of income. Montier believes that our world would have looked different if instead of maximizing shareholder value and enriching themselves with exorbitant and problematic incentives, those managing companies were required to focus on running their businesses, producing quality goods and services, treating customers and workers fairly, and creating shareholder value as a by-product, not as an objective. A video recording of James Montier’s talk from the conference is available here. You can also read an Enterprising Investor blog post on the issue: Maximization of Shareholder Value: Flawed Thinking That Threatens Our Economic Future. FREE AppDownload
Maverick Capital is launching a $50 million venture-capital fund, joining a growing number of Wall Street firms that are cashing in on Silicon Valley. The Wall Street Journal's Juliet Chung reports that Maverick's fund will focus on companies in the software, healthcare and consumer industries.  It launches on January 1. Maverick Capital is helmed by Lee Ainslie. The fund has returned 12% since its founding in 1995. The S&amp;P 500 has returned 9.4% over the same period. This will not be the first time Maverick is investing in the startup space. With some large investment banks, it bought a stake in Perzo, the instant messaging startup that will rival the Bloomberg terminal's chat function. Maverick has returned about 12% on average every year since 1995, compared to 9.4% for the S&amp;P 500. But some experts are warning that Wall Street's rush to Silicon valley may be making some startups overvalued. According to the Journal: "A similar dynamic played out in the dot-com boom, when money managers flocked to venture-capital investing after years of eye-popping valuations. Many of those managers got in just before the Internet bubble burst." David York, managing director of the San Francisco-based Top Tier Capital Partners LLC, which invests client money in venture funds, sounded a similar worry. “We are far more cautious today than we were two years ago because of the money flowing into the late-stage space both from hedge funds as well as from mutual-fund companies,” he said in an interview." For the full story head to the WSJ&gt; FREE AppDownload
With Treasury yields currently very low, mortgage rates, which are often tied to those government bond rates, are at their lowest point in a year, according to Freddie Mac's weekly Primary Mortgage Market Survey. The standard 30-year fixed rate mortgage fell to 3.92% for the week ending October 23, down 0.05% from the previous week. Also falling were 15-year fixed rate mortgages, from 3.18% last week to 3.08% this week, and 5-year Treasury-indexed hybrid adjustable rate mortgages, down to 2.91% this week from 2.92% last week. Meanwhile, 1-year Treasury-indexed adjustable rate mortgages ticked slightly up, from 2.38% last week to 2.41% this week. Freddie Mac vice president and chief economist Frank Nothaft wrote "Fixed mortgage rates continued to fall this week after the yield on 10 year Treasuries dropped to their lowest point of the year. Existing home sales beat expectations in September clocking in at an annual rate of 5.17 million units, up 2.4% from August." All of these rates are lower than they were at this time last year, and according to Freddie Mac, the 30-year rate is lower than it's been since the week of June 6, 2013.  FRED, Freddie Mac FREE AppDownload
JPMorgan officials discussed the bank's questionable hiring practices in China over a year before federal investigations started, The Wall Street Journal reports, citing internal emails and sources familiar with the matter. The Wall Street Journal reported that the internal emails showed conversations back in 2011 about the "Sons and Daughters" program, an alleged system of hiring the kids of powerful Chinese officials to score deals. In 2011, Chris Charnock, a JPMorgan compliance officer in Asia, first emailed five colleagues including one in the legal department to raise a red flag about the hiring, The Journal reported. He reportedly said the bank may have scored an IPO because it hired a senior government official’s child, and he suggested having more disclosures about new hires.  In 2013, it emerged that federal investigators had been looking into whether the bank violated anti-bribery laws through its “Sons and Daughters” program. Because JPMorgan may have hired these people to land business deals, it could be in violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.  One of the first reported cases was JPMorgan's hire of a Chinese railway official's daughter in its Hong Kong office in 2007. Meanwhile, his agency, The China Railway Group, was selected to advise JPMorgan on its IPO. The investigations are ongoing. We reached out to JPMorgan and a spokesman declined comment. FREE AppDownload
The English language has many accents and dialects but many times you are just saying some common words flat out wrong.  Produced by Matthew Stuart. Research by Christina Sterbenz. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
 Under Armour has been aggressively investing in high-profile endorsement deals and building up its women's business in a bid to chip away at Nike's athletic empire — and the strategy appears to be working.  Under Armour's footwear and apparel sales jumped 29% in the third quarter from a year ago and net income grew 22% to $89.1 million, the company reported Thursday. The Baltimore-based company says it's now on track to bring in a total of $3.03 billion in sales in 2014, which would be a 30% jump over 2013. Apparel sales rose 26% to $704.6 million in the third quarter from a year ago, while footwear sales leapt 50% and accessories sales were up 32%. Shares of Under Armour were down early Thursday, however, on concerns over a slight deceleration in apparel sales growth from a 35% pace in the previous period. But footwear sales beat expectations and the company is still successfully gaining market share. Under Armour recently surpassed Adidas to become the second biggest sportswear brand in the US by sales. Best known for its performance wear, Under Armour has grown rapidly over the last 18 years. When it was founded in 1996, it had $17,000 in revenue. This year, it's expected to bring in $3.03 billion. That's still only a fraction of Nike's sales, which are expected to total $28 billion this year.  BusinessInsider.com That's why the company has been increasing its investments in endorsement deals, an area where Nike has always excelled. Under Armour recently signed deals with supermodel Gisele Bundchen and ballerina Misty Copeland shortly after launching its largest-ever global women's marketing campaign. And earlier this year, Under Armour scored the biggest equipment deal in college sports.  The company recently lost a bid for basketball star Kevin Durant to Nike, but Under Armour CEO Kevin Plank said he wasn't deterred by the failure. "We're going to grow 20%-plus next year with or without the deal," Plank told Bloomberg TV's Stephanie Ruhle. "We wanted to send a message to every athletic director, to every president of every team club, to every league commissioner, that if you have a deal, there's no deal too big for us."  FREE AppDownload
Caterpillar's Q3 financial results beat analysts' expectations, and now the stock is spiking. Adjusted earnings jumped to $1.72 per share, which was much stronger than the $1.35 expected by analysts. Revenue increased to $13.55 billion, which was healthier than the $13.20 billion expected. As a global supplier of construction and mining equipment, Caterpillar is considered a reliable bellwether of economic activity. "We're pleased with the third-quarter profit improvement considering world economic growth remains slower than we'd like," CEO Doug Oberhelman said. "We are confident that, when we see more significant economic growth around the world, our consistent focus on operational performance will have prepared us to deliver even better results." The stock is up 5%. Management offered some perspective on the world economy as it sees it. From the report: From an economic perspective, we believe there is a reasonable likelihood that world economic growth could improve in 2015. In developed countries, growth-oriented monetary policies should support continued modest economic improvement. In addition, we believe there is potential for increased investment in infrastructure in countries such as the United States, India and Turkey. In developing countries, several governments raised interest rates or constrained liquidity in 2013 to control inflation or protect their exchange rates, and these measures have led to slower growth in 2014.  More recently, interest rates in many developing countries have stabilized and we saw the first monetary policy easing in the third quarter of 2014. Despite cautious optimism for improved global economic growth, significant risks and uncertainties remain that could temper growth in 2015. Political conflicts and social unrest continue to disrupt economic activity in several regions, in particular, the Commonwealth of Independent States, Africa and the Middle East.  The Chinese government's push for structural reform is slowing growth, and the ongoing uncertainty around the direction and timing of US fiscal and monetary policy actions may temper business confidence.  As a result, our preliminary outlook for 2015 expects sales and revenues to be flat to slightly up from 2014. "At this point, our view of 2015 sales and revenues isn't significantly different than 2014," Oberhelman said. "Our order backlog was up a little in the third quarter and was slightly higher than at this point last year. We're hopeful that economic growth will improve in 2015 but are mindful of the uncertainties and risks." FREE AppDownload
Billboards showing alluring pictures of seaside villas and luxury apartments have become a common sight here, which wouldn’t seem unusual except for the accompanying text — written not in Portuguese, but Chinese characters. That’s because Chinese investors have been first in line to take advantage of a government scheme designed to help finally pull Portugal out the euro zone debt crisis by offering European Union residency visas to foreigners who invest at least $638,000 in property here. The program has already injected more than $1.15 billion into Portugal's ailing real estate market since its launch in 2012, with Chinese citizens claiming 80 percent of the over 1,500 "golden visas" handed out so far. Spain, Greece and Cyprus have launched similar schemes. More than a simple search for investment bargains, the millionaires' rush to grab prime Atlantic and Mediterranean beachfront is evidence of a major Chinese investment pivot to Europe, part of a globalization of China’s financial industry. Here in southern Europe, the Chinese are using some of their vast currency reserves to snap up bargains from crisis-hit countries forced to sell off state companies, and to make some savvy purchases among technology leaders and global brands. European leaders anxious for capital to boost the region's stagnant economy have been loath to bother Chinese investors with pesky US-style concerns about dependency, national security or industrial espionage. "At this moment, Chinese investors are really paying attention to our country, and we are very happy about that," Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi said in Milan last week, just after inking trade deals worth more than $10 billion with his Chinese counterpart Li Keqiang. Chinese investment in Europe quadrupled from 2010-2012 at the height of the euro zone crisis, according to a report released by Deutsche Bank in July. In 2010, China's $7.8 billion stock holdings in the EU were less than those of Nigeria or Iceland, the report showed. Two years later, it had risen to $34.1 billion, overtaking the likes of Mexico and South Korea. Although the rate of investment slowed last year, there are signs the Chinese buy-up of European assets is picking up pace again. In Italy, the $3.8 billion China is estimated to have invested so far this year is more than double the total for the past three years. Recent European deals have included Chinese investments in German banks and engineering firms, buy-ups of an electric car maker and a $1.4 billion pizza parlor chain in Britain, and Fosun International's $1.3 billion acquisition of Portugal's leading insurer. Fosun also looks poised to wrap up its pursuit of Club Med, after the French vacation group’s board backed the Chinese bid valuing the company at $1 billion. Despite the current surge, Chinese spending in Europe is still dwarfed by the flow in the other direction. EU investment in China reached almost $150 billion in 2012, but the gap is narrowing. China’s investments in Europe are motivated by more than simply a desire to seize opportunities thrown up by the euro zone crisis. The Chinese know they must diversify their assets and can’t afford to leave a $3.9 trillion horde of foreign currency reserves — the world's largest — just lying around. "China needs to invest because it has such a surplus of reserves that depend on currency values and if they go down, they lose out," says Gauri Khandekar, head of the Asia-Europe program at the Madrid-based think tank FRIDE. That means looking beyond China’s traditional focus on African raw materials and the US market, where Chinese companies have been squeezed by lawmakers' security concerns. "China sees Europe as a safe investment destination, but there is also a geopolitical aspect to this, Chinese investments in the US have decreased slightly and those have been transferred to Europe," Khandekar said by phone. "There is a rebalancing of where China invests. ... China is investing its reserves strategically." Chinese investment in Europe could get a further boost from negotiations for an investment treaty that Li and EU leaders agreed to speed up during the Chinese leader's visit to Milan last week. Such an agreement could ease the concerns of Chinese business leaders who complain of high costs and bureaucratic barriers holding back investment in Europe, according to a survey published last year by the EU Chamber of Commerce in China. On the plus side, the survey found, "the EU is perceived by Chinese enterprises as a stable investment environment with advanced technologies, skilled labor and a transparent legal environment ... in addition it is regarded as a relatively open market, with few market access barriers and little history of opposition to Chinese investments on national security grounds." The last point is raising concerns thanks to the nature of some Chinese investments in the EU. In Portugal, China's firms secured a slice of the privatized power provider Energias de Portugal and 25 percent of the company that runs the electricity grid and gas pipeline network. Chinese companies are frontrunners to expand their interests in the Greek transport network ahead of the planned privatization of seaports, airports and railroads. Huwei, the Chinese telecoms company, faces severe restrictions in the US because of security concerns. But it’s welcomed in Europe, where it enjoyed sales of $4.7 billion last year and is planning to almost double its local workforce of 7,500. There are worries that state-run Chinese companies may function as the Communist government’s foreign policy tools rather than in their own interests as commercial enterprises, and that China's troubled record on export controls could result in sensitive European technologies ending up in the wrong hands. Many in the business world who say these concerns are overblown believe the benefits of Chinese investment outweigh any risks. "It's clear Chinese investment is helping Portugal out of the crisis," says Joao Marques da Cruz, president of the Portuguese-Chinese Chamber of Commerce and executive director of Energias de Portugal, which has been 21 percent owned by the China Three Gorges power company since 2011. "It would be a contradiction to welcome an investment, then admit there are sovereignty or security issues," he told GlobalPost. "That said, any government should create regulatory mechanisms that are stable, reliable and investor-friendly, while defending the state's legitimate strategic interests,” he added. “This should be a generic issue, not discriminatory against Chinese investment." FREE AppDownload
TwitterAn ISIS militantAccording to the US Treasury Department, the extremist group calling itself the Islamic State (also known as ISIS or ISIL) is garnering wealth at an alarmingly quick pace, with large chunks coming from black-market oil sales and ransom payments for hostages.  ISIS earns about $1 million each day in oil sales alone, said David Cohen, the Treasury Department's under secretary for terrorism and financial intelligence. He also said the group has netted approximately $20 million in ransom payments this year. Additionally, Cohen said ISIS has raised funds through local extortion and crime, like robbing banks. "To some extent, ISIL poses a different terrorist financing challenge," Cohen said during remarks at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in Washington on Thursday.  "It has amassed wealth at an unprecedented pace, and its revenue sources have a different composition from those of many other terrorist organizations. Unlike, for instance, core al-Qaeda, ISIL derives a relatively small share of its funds from deep-pocket donors, and thus does not, today, depend principally on moving money across international borders. Instead, ISIL obtains the vast majority of its revenues through local criminal and terrorist activities." Cohen heads the Treasury Department's efforts to disrupt and diminish the group's finances, which is part of President Barack Obama's strategy to "degrade and ultimately destroy" ISIS. During his remarks, Cohen outlined what the Treasury Department knows about ISIS' funds and the department's strategy to undermine them.  ISIS has tapped into a sophisticated oil black market in both Syria and Iraq, selling it at discounted prices to middlemen who then transport it out of ISIS strongholds. Cohen also said the Syrian regime of President Bashar al-Assad has "made an arrangement to purchase oil" from ISIS. Beginning in mid-June, he said, ISIS has made approximately $1 million a day in oil sales. Cohen said the Treasury Department would target with sanctions anyone who deals with ISIS' stolen oil.  "At some point, that oil is acquired by someone who operates in the legitimate economy and who makes use of the financial system. He has a bank account. His business may be financed, his trucks may be insured, his facilities may be licensed. All that makes ISIL oil facilitators vulnerable," Cohen said. He said the Treasury Department is "hard at work" identifying those individuals.  Dept. of Defense/Amanda Macias/Business InsiderA before and after aerial photo of an ISIS-controlled Gbiebeoil refinery. The US military has also begun targeting ISIS oil refineries in its campaign in Iraq and Syria. On ransom payments, Cohen said the US would work to make it an international consensus for countries to not pay ransoms for hostages — something that has long been US policy. "This policy rests on the sound premise – confirmed by experience – that an explicit and consistently applied no-concessions policy reduces the frequency of kidnappings by eliminating the underlying incentive to take hostages in the first place," he said. FREE AppDownload
Natural gas is creating a new reality for economies around the world.  Three major developments of the past few years have thrust natural gas into the spotlight: the shale gas revolution in the United States, the reduction in nuclear power supply following the Fukushima disaster in Japan, and geopolitical tensions between Russia and Ukraine. Over the last decade, the discovery of massive quantities of unconventional gas resources around the world has transformed global energy markets, and reshaped the geography of global energy trade (see map). Consumption of natural gas now accounts for nearly 25 percent of global primary energy consumption. Meanwhile, the share of oil has declined from 50 percent in 1970 to about 30 percent today. Natural gas, however, is different from other energy sources. Being lighter than air, it is a commodity that doesn’t travel very easily and is expensive to transport. Hence, natural gas markets tend to be regional, and much less integrated than oil markets. Shipping or transporting natural gas requires either costly pipeline networks or liquefaction infrastructure and equipment, including dedicated vessels, and then re-gasification at the destination. The limited global integration of gas markets has resulted in substantial price differences across regions in recent years due to the U.S. shale gas boom and the Fukushima disaster, in spite of increasing liquefied natural gas trade. With advances in shale rock drilling, a sharp surge in U.S. gas production has made the country the world’s largest natural gas producer, and soon expected to become a net exporter of natural gas.  The shale gas boom has also had a significant impact on the patterns of global energy trade: U.S. fossil fuel imports decreased to $225 billion in 2013 from $412 billion in 2008. Surging supply has also steeply driven down natural gas prices in the United States by about 70 percent in recent years, introducing substantial price differences across other regions (see chart). For instance, U.S. gas sells for $4 per million British thermal units, compared with $10 in Europe and close to $17 in Asia. The U.S. advantage in natural gas has also led to an increase in U.S. competitiveness in non-energy products, in turn affecting its competitors. The share of energy-intensive manufacturing exports in total U.S. manufacturing exports has been rising steadily, whereas the share of non-energy intensive exports has been declining. Estimates show that cheaper natural gas in the United States has helped lift manufacturing exports by about 6 percent since the start of the shale gas boom. Further evidence suggests that the channels through which cheaper domestic natural gas prices in the United States might have an impact on manufacturing exports are operating both at the intensive (expansion by existing firms) and extensive (new firm entry) margins. As more countries exploit new sources of natural gas, not only is the geography of trade in energy products likely to continue to change, but the geography of manufacturing exports is likely to change as well. While energy users in the United States have been the main beneficiaries of the energy price declines, the shale revolution has helped to stabilize international energy prices including by freeing global energy supply for European and Asian markets, offsetting some of the shortages due to geopolitical disruptions. The Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster in March 2011 highlighted the environmental liabilities associated with nuclear power generation, and induced a sharp increase in the use of natural gas. Before the disaster, about one-quarter of Japan’s energy was generated by means of nuclear reactors. Following the disaster, the Japanese government decided to halt production at all nuclear power plants in the country. To compensate for the resulting loss in electricity generation, Japanese electric power companies increased their use of fossil-fuel power stations and appended natural gas turbines to existing plants. As a result, Japan’s liquefied natural gas imports have increased dramatically—by about 40 percent—since the disaster, making Japan the world’s largest importer of liquefied natural gas. The sharp increase in natural gas demand has led to higher prices in Asia—and Japan in particular—double that in Europe and four times higher than in United States. The ongoing crisis in Ukraine has highlighted European energy markets’ dependence on natural gas. Ukraine and countries in southeast Europe appear particularly vulnerable to potential disruptions of Russian gas supply. Should the gas cutoffs persist and be extended to other countries, the greatest impact will be on Ukraine and countries in southeast Europe that receive Russian gas transiting through Ukraine. Other countries, however, will be affected through rising spot prices, which may spread from natural gas to other fuels. Overall, the pattern of global trade in liquefied natural gas, and energy more generally, is expected to evolve further. If the United States gradually becomes a net exporter of liquefied natural gas, we expect domestic natural gas prices to rise but still remain markedly lower than that in Europe and Asia, given liquefaction costs. Natural gas is the cleanest source of energy among other fossil fuels (petroleum products and coal) and does not suffer from the other liabilities potentially associated with nuclear power generation. The abundance of natural gas could thus provide a “bridge” between where we are now in terms of the global energy mix and a hopeful future that would chiefly involve renewable energy sources. While markets forces shape the energy mix, energy policy has a role to play, including for coal and renewable, in turn impacting global trade in energy. Here, Europe and Japan are at a crossroads, facing a difficult balance between environmental concerns, economic efficiency goals and energy security. Getting that balance right should figure prominently on policy makers’ agendas. This article originally appeared at Forumblog.org.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Steve MarcusThe drama never ends in the Steven and Patricia Cohen divorce saga. Steve Cohen, one of the richest hedge fund managers and the founder of Point72, (formerly SAC Capital) is trying to get a hold of 57 of his ex-wife's emails from 2006 and 2007, according to Bloomberg's Patricia Hurtado. The billionaire says the email exchanges will "help him defend a fraud suit she filed against him," according to the report. The emails in question were exchanged between Patricia Cohen and attorney Michael Bowe in 2006 and 2007. Bowe previously sued Steve Cohen twice when he was representing both Biovail Corp. and Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd., also back in 2006. In the suits, Steve Cohen and SAC Capital were accused of insider trading. Although the suits were eventually dismissed, SAC Capital ended its investment advisory business after pleading guilty to insider trading last year. It later changed its name to Point72 Asset Management LP. So what does Patricia Cohen have to do with all of this? Although the pair officially divorced in 1990, the fighting never stopped. In 2009, she sued Steve Cohen claiming that he concealed assets worth upward of $5.5 million during their divorce to cheat her out of money in the settlement. Some of those assets, she said, were "reaped through insider trading."  Her 2006-2007 emails with Bowe (who represented firms that accused Steve Cohen of insider trading), therefore, look suspicious.  Originally, Patricia's 2009's lawsuit was dismissed by a federal judge because she waited too long to file the case. She argued that she hadn't learned about the issue at hand until 2006, and the case was reinstated by an appeals court. Again, that's about the time that she exchanged these emails with Bowe. In the past, Patricia Cohen refused to give up her emails with Bowe. She says "they're covered by the attorney-client privilege because she was discussing hiring him as her lawyer," according to Bloomberg. But Steve Cohen's lawyer doesn't agree. He argues that because Bowe never actually represented Patricia Cohen, the attorney-client privilege does not apply to them. And Steve Cohen wants these emails to help win the "fraud suit she filed against him" in 2009. He says the emails will "help prove that Patricia Cohen waited too long to file her lawsuit," according to the report. Perhaps, Steve Cohen is hoping that that will be enough close the case once again. For the full story head to Bloomberg&gt; FREE AppDownload
One of the first Apple computers ever built has sold in New York for $905,000 (€715,000), making it the world’s most expensive computer relic, according to Bonhams auction house. The Apple-1 computer, built by hand in 1976 by Steve Wozniak in Steve Jobs’ garage (or possibly his sister’s bedroom), fetched nearly twice its pre-sale high estimate, Bonhams said. It was bought by the Henry Ford Museum in Dearborn, Michigan. BonhamsThe museum’s representative “triumphantly raised the paddle” after beating competition from a telephone bidder, the auction house said in a statement. The computer came with an intact motherboard, vintage keyboard, Sanyo monitor, a custom power supply in wooden box and two vintage tape-decks. Cassandra Hatton, Bonhams senior specialist who ran the auction said, "The provenance on the Apple-1 is excellent and the condition is outstanding, so it was not surprising that it did so well." BonhamsThe Apple-1 is considered a vanguard of the personal computer revolution, being the first pre-assembled personal computer ever sold. Bonhams said the lot was one of just 50 hand-built for the ByteShop by Wozniak in the summer of 1976. Contains reporting from AFP. FREE AppDownload
This article is adapted from the book, "Financial Serial Killers: Inside the World of Wall Street Money Hustlers, Swindlers, and Con Men" by Tom Ajamie and Bruce Kelly. There are many reasons why we fall for investment scams. As we understand and realize these factors, we are less likely to fall prey to investment scamsters — who we call "financial serial killers." Robert Cialdini, formerly Regents' Professor of Psychology and Marketing at Arizona State University, says the root cause of people falling victim to a financial fraud is their uncertainty about the details of the financial environment. When people feel uncertain about financial decisions, he notes, they look outside themselves, and this sets them up for the fraud. (MORE: 4 Scams That Target Boomers) Two ways 'experts' con us To seek reassurance and help reduce their uncertainty, people often turn to others who appear to be experts — or at least to ones who proclaim to be experts. Expertise and trustworthiness are the two components that constitute a great authority in most people's minds. Certifications and diplomas are symbols of expertise signifying that someone is an "expert." These kinds of trappings can sometimes be genuine, but they can also easily be counterfeited to convince people that their holder is somebody who knows what he or she is talking about. Cialdini notes that Bernie Madoff, who perpetuated what was likely the greatest financial fraud in history, "sat on a governing commission that was designed to offer policing policies for the financial industry." The second place we look when we are uncertain is to our peers. "That's why so often [investment] scams turn out to be affinity scams," says Cialdini. "Groups that share some kind of connection." People use groups they belong to as a source of good information. Cialdini says that they think: 'What are the people like me doing and telling me to do? I can usually trust that.' (MORE: Who Can You Trust on the Internet?) Madoff had emissaries of various sorts in Jewish congregations and in golf clubs. He had people who were selling access to his funds to the people they were friends with within those organizations. We tend to be willing to say "yes" to our friends because we think they're steering us right and because it's very awkward to say "no" to a friend who comes to us with a great proposition — and is staking his reputation and status on it. Flickr / Faltin TravelWe all want to feel like VIPs. The club you don't want to join Another compelling factor that leads us to fall for investment scams is the perceived scarcity of the opportunity. "We are drawn to those opportunities that only a few are going to be allowed in or you have to have a certain level of finances in order to be allowed in or you have to know somebody to be allowed in," explains Cialdini. These psychological impulses come from a number of human needs. We want to feel special. We want to be thought of as one-of-a-kind. We want exclusivity. The secretive, or exclusive, factor plays into our psychological need to feel special. (MORE: How to Identify Investment Fraud) All the while Madoff was giving the appearance of running an exclusive operation, he actually represented thousands of people. But he made all his customers feel like they were part of a very exclusive club, mastering his deception. Madoff's tactic — and that of many other fraudsters — was to keep his investment formula secret. Cialdini says that "if anybody challenged him, he threatened to kick them out." Cialdini says fraud victims often fall for the scarcity principle when they've just lost money on another investment. "When people are dealing with the recent experiences where they've not done well, they don't want to lose any more. So you can tell them that unless they move, they're going to lose the opportunity," he says. Cialdini has seen this firsthand working with AARP investigating phone scams of the elderly. "They get burned and are so ashamed that they become vulnerable to the next scam so they can recoup their losses. They don't want to think of themselves as losers and they don't want their family to think of them as fools and idiots financially. So they wind up getting in again and losing yet another chunk of their savings," he notes. University of Exeter/flickrGet to know possible financial advisers before choosing one. Lessons and takeaways To avoid being duped into investment scams, you need to be careful about doing business with people you know a little. Simply because you attend the same church or synagogue as someone does not mean that he is qualified to manage your money or has your best interests in mind. Look objectively at his qualifications. It's better to select a money manager by interviewing two or three candidates and narrowing the choice from there. You also need to prevent yourself from making investment decisions based on emotions. Cialdini says we often make decisions based on emotions and rationalize them later. But "if we truly take a step back and try to be dispassionate about a decision because it's going to involve considerable resources, we can do a pretty good job of countering a purely emotional decision," he notes. Don't be gullible, either. Otherwise smart and cautious people sometimes are when a financial serial killer approaches them with an investment. Says Cialdini: "I think that a lot of people who are not normally gullible can get caught up in these scams because it has to do with the distortion of — the undermining of — normally good decision-making principles." Flickr / Ian BrittonSave yourself from being a victim. 7 questions you need to ask  White-collar crime can and does pay — and it pays because of you. To prevent you from becoming a victim, we've pulled together seven questions to ask: 1. Is the broker or adviser using high-pressure sales tactics and telling you that you must invest right now? 2. Is the broker or adviser pressuring you just as you are dealing with a dramatic life change, like the death of a loved one, particularly a spouse who handled the household's money? (People are very vulnerable after the death of loved ones.) 3. Is the broker or adviser telling you the investment has a no-risk, guaranteed return of 10%, 15 % or higher? 4. Can you find information about the broker or adviser and his firm at public websites such as www.FINRA.org, www.cfp.net or www.sec.gov? (If you can't, you should probably stay away.) 5. Does the broker or adviser say the investments or strategies are too complex to explain or that they're top secret? 6. Is your investment adviser too perfect? Like Madoff, is he or she generating returns that closely resemble each other year in and year out regardless of the market's fluctuations? 7. Did the investment "opportunity" come through email? Increasingly con artists use that method of communication to target victims, the SEC warns. If you receive an unsolicited email from someone you don't know with a "can't-miss" investment, your best move is to pass up the "opportunity." This story was originally published by Next Avenue. FREE AppDownload
LinkedIn's Sohan Murthy posted a fascinating interactive map showing the most disproportionately common skills listed by LinkedIn users in cities across the US and Europe. Here's a screengrab of the basic map for the US: Sohan Murthy/LinkedIn Cities are color-coded based on what skill group most outperformed the nation as a whole. These are not necessarily the most commonly listed skills in each city. Instead, they are skills that LinkedIn users in a particular city listed on their profiles at a much higher rate than users in the US overall. Comparing the local rate to the national rate gives a handy measure called a location quotient that Business Insider has used in the past. Clicking on a particular city shows a breakdown of the most disproportionately common skills in that city: Sohan Murthy/LinkedIn Given New York City's status as a center of finance, fashion, and media, the top skills here are not much of a surprise. Using the legend on the right, you can highlight a particular skill group. The Midwest's manufacturing legacy shows through with disproportionate numbers of people in Midwestern cities listing engineering skills on their LinkedIn profiles: Sohan Murthy/LinkedIn There's a similar map for European cities as well. Here, location quotients are calculated by comparing city rates to rates for Europe as a whole: Sohan Murthy/LinkedIn The interactive map, and some further observations, can be found at the original LinkedIn blog post here. FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's BlogThe strength of the US economy is reflected in the S&amp;P 500 Transportation index. It edged down yesterday along with the broad market, but remains above its 50-day moving average and only 1.8% below its record high on September 18. The fundamentals are just as strong. Railcar loadings of intermodal containers rose to a record high in early October. The ATA Trucking Index did the same during September. The railroad and trucking industries are running on cheaper fuels. Both forward revenues and earnings are rising rapidly to new highs. Dr. Ed's BlogToday's Morning Briefing: Earnings World. (1) Is the strong dollar depressing Q4 earnings estimates? (2) Not much impact so far on S&amp;P 500/400/600. (3) US forward earnings remains on uptrends in record territory. (4) Sector search shows Energy weighing most on S&amp;P 500 earnings. (5) Cyclical sectors showing earnings resilience despite strong dollar. (6) Overseas, the earnings picture is less bright. (7) S&amp;P 500 Transportation index is on the fast track. (8) Railcar loadings and trucking freight index at record highs. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
Lockheed MartinUS manufacturing activity cooled some in October but remains in expansionary territory. Markit's flash US manufacturing PMI for October came in at 56.2. Expectations were for the reading to come in at 57.0, down slightly from 57.5 last month, but still indicating growth in the US manufacturing sector.  This is the lowest reading for the report since July, and weaker than the 57.1 average seen during the third quarter, according to Markit. Any reading over 50 indicates expansion, while a reading under 50 indicates contraction. Markit's report said that new business growth was the main negative influence on the October reading, as the rise in new orders was the slowest in nine months. Markit also said that, "A number of survey respondents commented on more cautious spending patterns among clients, especially in relation to export sales." Chris Williamson, chief economist at Markit said: "Although output growth slowed to the weakest since March, the pace of expansion remains robust. Even expanding at this slower rate, the goods producing sector should help drive another solid upturn of the economy in the final quarter of the year. A concern is that growth of new orders weakened sharply, which may translate into a further slowdown in coming months. The source of the slowdown appears to be weaker economic growth in key markets such as the Eurozone, China and other emerging markets, which has hit export performance. Many companies reported that domestic demand remains reassuringly strong." The flash PMI from the US comes after Markit's flash reading for Chinese manufacturing, which beat expectations but was not, overall, a very encouraging report.  FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesYelp CEO and cofounder Jeremy Stoppelman.Yelp shares are tumbling in the wake of the company's Q3 earnings announcement. The stock is down 13% in early trading. The company reported that quarterly revenue jumped 67% to $102.5 million, which was a bit higher than the $99 million expected by analysts. Earnings came in at $0.05 cents per share, which was well ahead of the $0.02 expected. Management's guidance, however, was a bit light. The company expects Q4 revenue between $107 million and $108 million versus expectations for $111 million. "We had an outstanding quarter driven by strong execution across all areas of our business," CEO Jeremy Stoppelman said. While the pace of growth appears to be impressive, expectations for these young tech startups tend to be quite high. As such, it's very easy to disappoint investors. It is definitely worth pointing out that Yelp is up about 185% since its IPO three years ago. Google FinanceYelp Inc. FREE AppDownload
Caterpillar announced earnings this morning and demolished Q3 expectations. It also released an earnings video that was mostly a greatest-hits montage of their most impressive machines, so you may be surprised to learn that there was also some stuff in it about the tractor business! Not only is it going well, but the company expects it to continue as such for a very long time. Here's why:  CAT thinks it has great positioning for mid-to-long term growth around the world as the growing middle class (and growing median income in this middle class) leads to more infrastructure investment globally.  Caterpillar/YouTubeA screenshot from Caterpillar's Q3 2014 earnings video It also see global energy demand as a good indicator for growing tractor demand.  Caterpillar/YouTubeA screenshot from Caterpillar's Q3 2014 earnings video But let's stop pretending that you wanted to see charts on global energy demand. Here's another tractor from the video: Caterpillar/YouTubeScreenshot from Caterpillar Q3 2014 earnings video FREE AppDownload
Chiquita shares are surging after the company received an increased takeover offer from Cutrale-Safra.  In pre-market trade on Thursday, shares of Chiquita were up nearly 8% after Cutrale-Safra offered to acquire the company for $14.50 per share. Cutrale is a juice and agribusiness giant that accounts for more than one-third of sales in the $5 billion orange juice market, and Safra is a group of businesses controlled by Brazilian billionaire Joseph Safra. The combined entities have been seeking to acquire Chiquita, which currently has agreed to be bought by Irish produce distributor Fyffes. In its letter on Thursday, Cutrale-Safra said they believe their offer represents a 20% to the current deal between Chiquita and Fyffes. Earlier this week, Chiquita issued a lengthy statement responding to what it called "inaccurate and misleading statements," made by Cutrale and Safra in their efforts to acquire the company. The Chiquita-Fyffes deal is set to be vote on at a special meeting of Chiquita shareholders on Friday. FREE AppDownload
Caterpillar announced Q3 earnings that smashed expectations. As a global supplier of construction and mining equipment, Caterpillar is a pretty good bellwether of the global economy. The company's earnings announcement was accompanied by a 10-minute YouTube video in which executive discuss the financial results, long-term outlook, and initiatives within  the company. Unfortunately, I couldn't concentrate on any of the important commentary because the video consists of back-to-back clips of awesome earthmovers and mining equipment doing awesome stuff. Here are some screengrabs from the magnificent video. Caterpillar / YouTube Caterpillar / YouTube Did we mention that Caterpillar tests new stuff using virtual reality? Caterpillar / YouTube Here's the video: 
ScreenshotThiel, Beck.Peter Thiel, the eccentric billionaire investor, had a conversation with Glenn Beck, the eccentric multimedia mogul.  During the conversation Thiel said the following, which is a bit odd: I think one of the … you know, the countercultural in the '60s was the hippies. You know, we landed on the moon in July of 1969. Woodstock started three weeks later, and with the benefit of hindsight, that’s when progress ended, and the hippies took over the country. Today the counterculture is to believe in science and technology. You know, our society, the dominant culture doesn’t like science. It doesn’t like technology. You just look at the science-fiction movies that come out of Hollywood — Terminator, Matrix, Avatar, Elysium. I watched the Gravity movie the other day. It’s like you would never want to go into outer space. You would just want to be back on some muddy island. And so I think we’re in a world where actually believing that a better future is possible that you can have agency and work towards a better future, that is actually radically countercultural. We're not so sure we agree with him, especially about that last bit. It's not particularly countercultural to like technology right now.  After all, people love their iPhones. They love Google. In fact, five of the 10 most valuable brands are technology companies.  Elon Musk, who embodies Thiel's idea about the future, is a mainstream figure. The "Iron Man" movies are partly inspired by Musk, who leads an electric car company as well as a space exploration company.  Science-fiction movies tend to have a scary take on space because 1. space is pretty scary, and 2. it wouldn't be a very fun movie if they went to space and everything was great, and that's the end of the film. Arguably, it's still nerdy and geeky to be into computers and coding if you're young. But given the popularity of people like Thiel, Musk, Mark Zuckerberg, and Steve Jobs, it's becoming increasingly cool. As for the thing about hippies taking over and killing progress: We have no idea what he means.  Anywho, here's the video of them talking about a lot of stuff: Your browser does not support iframes. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Andreas ManolisWorkers queue to register for unemployment benefits.Jobless claims rose to 283,000 last week. Expectations were for claims to rise some from last week, to 281,000 from 264,000. Last week's number was the lowest reading for the indicator since the week of April 15, 2000.  That report was also revised up to 266,000. The four-week moving average of initial claims, however, fell further to 281,000 from 284,000 last week, the lowest level for this average since May 6, 2000. Thursday's report contained no special factors, according to the Department of Labor. In a note to clients following the report, Chris Rupkey at MUFG said, "Unemployment claims, the timeliest indicators as Bernanke once dubbed them rose 17K to 283K... If there are global risks, Europe is slowing, the commodity-cycle boom-bust cycle is looking more bust like by the day,  war and terrorism, if companies were concerned enough perhaps seeing a drop in sales that they actually started firing workers, it would show up here first in the weekly unemployment claims data. Well, it’s not happening. The labor market is still strong and any slack remaining is just a figment of the Federal Reserve’s imagination." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Alexei NikolskyiRussia's President Vladimir Putin visits a Rosneft refinery in the Black Sea town of Tuapse in southern Russia October 11, 2013.Reeling from the impact of Western sanctions, Russia's top oil producer Rosneft has asked for more than 2 trillion roubles ($48.5bn) from the country's National Wealth Find, Finance Minister Anton Siluanov has said. The fund is one of two that manage Russia's oil revenues and it currently has around $83bn. The fund's main use is to support Russia's pension system, although its reserves have been deployed to help other firms suffering from Western sanctions this year. Western powers imposed wide-ranging economic penalties on Russian individuals and companies in the wake of the annexation of Crimea in March. The severity of the sanctions has increased as the conflict in eastern Ukraine has escalated, reflecting Western anger over Russia's role in the ongoing crisis. REUTERS/Sergei Karpukhin The state-run oil producer has had its access to foreign capital markets in the European Union and the United States restricted, leaving the company scrambling to repay 440 billion roubles worth of debt before the end of the year. The company has a further debt of 626 billion roubles due by the end of next year, according to its latest presentation. Russia's finance minister did not elaborate on whether the request had been approved by the government. Siluanov has previously said the government planned to maintain a 60 percent cap on the amount of the fund's revenues that can be invested domestically. FREE AppDownload
The Wyss Institute at Harvard University has developed a device that can remove Ebola among other viruses from the bloodstream. Produced by Matthew Stuart Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Thomson ReutersThe headquarters of the European Central Bank (ECB) are pictured in FrankfurtLONDON/FRANKFURT (Reuters) - At around noon on Thursday, the euro zone's 130 biggest banks will receive the European Central Bank's final verdict on their finances after a review aimed at drawing a line under persistent doubts about the health of the region's banking sector. Most banks already have a good idea of how they have fared in the region's most comprehensive ever bank tests, after getting "partial and preliminary" results from the ECB in recent weeks. But the final numbers were only agreed by senior regulators and supervisors late on Wednesday. They will not be made public until 1100 GMT on Sunday, and the ECB has asked banks not to make any disclosures until this point. The results will end months of uncertainty on what measures they will be forced to take to prove they can weather another economic crash. Markets are expecting few surprises, and there have already been some reports of how banks have fared including a Tuesday report in Spanish newswire Efe which named 11 banks as having failed and briefly moved the euro. The ECB's assessment, which is designed to allow the central bank to take over with a clean sheet when it becomes the euro zone's banking supervisor on Nov. 4, is based on the banks' financial positions at the end of 2013. The banks have strengthened their balance sheets by almost 203 billion euros ($257 billion) since mid 2013, the ECB says, which implies that several banks which failed are likely to have already raised cash to deal with any shortfall. Nonetheless, the outcome of the tests will be closely watched. "This is the one chance that the ECB gets to once and for all step out of the shadow of all the national regulators and really claim its own independence," said Jacob Funk Kirkegaard, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute in Washington D.C. Over the past year, more than 6,000 experts combed through the euro zone's 130 largest banks' books - including household names like Deutsche Bank, Santander and BNP Paribas and national champions like Bank of Cyprus and Bank of Ireland - to unearth any hidden losses and weaknesses. As well as setting the ECB up for its new role as supervisor, the tests were also designed to remove investors' lingering doubts about euro zone banks, which continue to trade at a discount to banks in the United States. (GRAPHIC: http://link.reuters.com/buf36v) Analysts say the results could pave the way for U.S. investors, who are holding historically low levels of European bank equity, to pile back in since the banks' finances will have the seal of approval from a supranational body. Emil Petrov, head of capital market solutions at Nomura, said the announcement of results would be positive for banks over the longer term, since they will remove a major source of uncertainty and pave the way for the lenders to resume issuing junior bonds. "There are other factors at play here and, at the moment these are not positive: growth fears, geopolitical conflicts etc," he said. "The immediate market reaction to the stress test results will be equally driven by the macroeconomic backdrop. Longer term, the effect ought to be positive." The ECB has repeatedly stressed the thoroughness of its review, which included a forensic assessment of whether banks had properly valued their assets and a stress test to see if they had enough capital to withstand another crash. Officials privately guide that the process - which was far more intensive than three previous EU-wide bank tests - is at least as important as the actual outcome. Kirkegaard said the ECB had done a "competent job" so far, but now it was crucial for the credibility of the tests that the ECB also acted upon the information it gathered – free of political, industry or national influence. "It may sound somewhat simplistic to say 'look, we got to have blood on the floor', but there is a lot of symbolism involved in this," Kirkegaard said.  Market estimates of how many banks will fail the tests, and who those failures will be, are diverse, but generally investors are expecting few failures and surprises, especially amongst household names. JP Morgan said it was less likely that a major bank failed the test, but some second-tier lenders may have missed the mark. "That would be a credible outcome," said Roberto Henriques, European credit analyst at JP Morgan. "You show that you are strict and some banks fail, but guess what, these are technical failures and the banks have already dealt with their problems." Technical failures would be those banks that missed the capital requirements as of end-2013, but which have since raised sufficient capital to meet the ECB's mark. German cooperative mortgage lender Muenchener Hypothekenbank, for example, has already said it did not meet the capital requirement, but raised 400 million euros in July to make up for it. Austria's part-nationalized lender Volksbanken AG has already said it would wind itself down to avoid a looming capital crunch that it was struggling to plug. If banks that have raised money this year need more, market sources say they could raise it. "If you look at Monte Paschi and the Greek banks, they've all raised a lot of equity this year and attracted a lot of interest,” a London-based fund manager said on Tuesday. "If they now need to top up by 1 or 2 billion each, which is probably a bear (worst) case, the market will give them that money ... And you haven't got much choice, quite frankly, if the alternative is to be wiped out."       (Editing by Pravin Char) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersView of the headquarters of Comcast on JFK Boulevard in PhiladelphiaBy Jennifer Saba NEW YORK (Reuters) - Comcast Corp reported on Thursday higher quarterly revenue and income as more people signed up for its high speed Internet service. Total revenue at the largest U.S. cable operator, which owns NBC Universal, rose to $16.79 billion in the third quarter, up 4 percent from the year-ago period. Analysts had been expecting $16.81 billion, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. Comcast said it added 315,000 net high speed Internet subscribers, a 5.8 percent uptick over the same period. About 81,000 customers canceled video subscriptions, far fewer than the net loss of 127,000 in the 2013 third quarter. Analysts had forecast a net loss of 93,000 subscribers, according to StreetAccount. The decrease in cable subscriptions is a closely watched figure that has taken on even more prominence given two major announcements from Time Warner Inc HBO and CBS Corp last week. Both the pay TV network and broadcaster are launching services that allow people to watch programs with only a broadband connection. Cable and satellite distributors are seeking ways to stop consumers, especially younger ones, from dumping their cable subscriptions, or "cutting the cord." On the media side, Comcast reported that revenue at NBC Universal division inched up 1.2 percent to $5.92 billion on the strength of advertising revenue at broadcast network NBC and its theme parks. Third quarter net income increased almost 50 percent to $2.59 billion, or 99 cents per share. Adjusted for a one-time tax settlement, earnings per share rose to 73 cents from 65 cents in the year-ago period. Comcast is in the process of acquiring Time Warner Cable, which it had agreed to buy for $45.3 billion earlier this year.   (Editing by Richard Chang) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/CDICPeugeot CEO Maxime Picat.Good morning! Here are the major stories making a big impact early Thursday. The World's Second Largest Retailer Is In Trouble. Tesco's profits came in down 91.9% in comparison to their last result, and shares are down another 5%, after dropping by more than half in the last year. It Looks Like France Is Back In Recession. France's PMI figures are the worst in eight months, at 48, while Germany's manufacturers look like they are out of the danger zone. British Retail Sales Dipped. Sales fell 0.3% between August and September, in comparison to the 0.1% increase that economists expected. European And Asian Markets Are Down. France's CAC 40 is down 0.37%, Germany's DAX is down 0.22%, the UK's FTSE 100 is down 0.76%. The Nikkei fell 0.37% and the Hang Seng dropped 0.30% last night.  The US Manufacturing PMI Is Coming. At 8:30 a.m. ET, jobless claims are out. At 9:45 a.m. ET, Markit's US manufacturing PMI is out. Analysts expect a 57 print. Business Activity Is Up In China. The huge developing economy's PMI reading inched up to 50.4 from 50.2, despite a lot of concerns about China's growth.  Huawei Says Q3 Smartphone Shipments Jumped 26%. Shenzhen-based Huawei shipped 16.8 million smartphones globally in the quarter ending Sept. 30. US-Led Air Strikes In Syria Have Killed 533 People. The strikes have killed 464 Islamic State group fighters, 57 militants from Al-Qaeda affiliate al-Nusra Front, and 32 civilians, the Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said. Two More Italian Banks Will Likely Have To Raise Capital After Stress Tests. Monte dei Paschi di Siena and Banca Carige will likely need additional capital to plug shortfalls found by the European Central Bank in region-wide bank stress tests, according to Bloomberg. Peugeot Says Sales Are Edging Them Out Of The Crisis. Peugeot Citroen said Wednesday strong quarterly sales in China and by its car-parts subsidiary has kept its drive away from crisis on track, despite an overall lackluster performance.  FREE AppDownload
DETROIT (Reuters) - General Motors Co &lt;gm.n&gt; on Thursday posted a higher-than-expected profit for the third quarter on strong demand in its home North American market and in China. Net income rose to $1.38 billion, or 81 cents a share, from $698 million, or 45 cents a share, a year earlier. Excluding one-time items, GM earned 97 cents a share, 2 cents above what analysts polled by Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S had expected. The quarter included $300 million in special items for flood damage sustained at the company's technical center outside Detroit and the writedown of assets in Russia. Revenue rose slightly to about $39.3 billion from $39 billion. Analysts had expected $39.8 billion. The No. 1 U.S. automaker reported a profit margin of 9.5 percent in North America, the fifth consecutive quarter of year-over-year growth. Excluding recall-related costs, the second quarter's margin in the region was 9.2 percent. GM said average transaction prices in the U.S. market and vehicle sales in China had reached record highs in the third quarter. Shares were up 2.6% in pre-market trading.   (Reporting by Ben Klayman and Bernie Woodall in Detroit; Editing by Lisa Von Ahn) FREE AppDownload
NEW YORK (Reuters) - It's not been a good time for Warren Buffett wannabes. Sharp drops in many of the stocks owned by Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway in recent weeks hit the sprawling conglomerate's equity portfolio hard. The loss on seven of those holdings alone totals more than $5 billion provided Berkshire's stakes have remained the same since June 30, the last date for which they were disclosed. In particular, Berkshire's been stung by large holdings in IBM and long-time Buffett favorite Coca-Cola, both of which tumbled after disappointing third-quarter results. His penchant for energy stocks hasn't helped either, given the damage done to the prices of energy assets by the slumping global oil price. For the world's third richest man, unrealized losses of a few billion dollars aren't necessarily anything to cry about. Buffett's ability to sit tight and ride out short-term market gyrations has been one of the keys to his success as a long-term investor. And unlike, say, mutual fund managers, he doesn't have to worry about redemptions forcing him to sell stock. But for others - fund managers, smaller institutions, even retail investors - who often try to follow in Buffett's footsteps, the losses could be harder to get over. Berkshire Hathaway did not respond to requests for comment. With 400 million shares of Coke on June 30, Berkshire is the company's largest shareholder - and Buffett is perhaps the world's most famous Cherry Coke fan. "I love Coke, I love the management," he said in a television interview in April, as the company faced a controversy over an executive compensation plan. Coke shares plunged 6 percent on Oct. 21 after it said that quarterly profit slumped. The shares are down 4.1 percent since June 30 for a possible paper loss to Berkshire of $696 million. Similarly, IBM - of which Berkshire held about 70 million shares on June 30 - is down about 11 percent since the end of the second quarter, with much of that decline occurring after it ditched its 2015 operating earnings target this week. Since June 30, IBM's slump may has cost Berkshire nearly $1.3 billion on paper. Short-seller Doug Kass has repeatedly pointed to both of those companies as weak spots in Berkshire's portfolio. Kass, who runs Seabreeze Partners Management in Palm Beach, Florida, was named Buffett's "credentialed bear" for the 2013 Berkshire Hathaway shareholders' meeting. To spice up proceedings at the gathering, which is attended by thousands of Berkshire shareholders, Buffett got Kass to present the bear case against the conglomerate, which owns dozens of businesses selling everything from ice cream to insurance. "Very few people have the sort of pain threshold and long-term time frame and risk appetite that Warren Buffett has," Kass said. "His risk profile is different than a mere mortal." Among the other stocks that were in Berkshire's portfolio at June 30 that have dropped significantly are banking group Wells Fargo, credit card group American Express, energy giant Exxon Mobil, Canadian oil producer Suncor Energy and automaker General Motors. Exxon often sees its fate tied to the price of oil. With crude down about 18 percent so far this year, Buffett's 41 million shares of Exxon at June 30 would be worth almost $311 million less now. Earlier this month, Berkshire Hathaway said that it had sold off some of its stake in troubled British grocer Tesco, taking it to below 3 percent from around 3.96 percent of Tesco's shares in May. Those shares are off 45 percent this year in the wake of its worsening performance, exacerbated by an accounting scandal. Buffett himself called that investment a "huge mistake." Because Berkshire Hathaway owns stock in dozens of companies, several of its holdings are performing better. Retail behemoth Wal-Mart, for example, is up 1.3 percent since the end of the second quarter. And consumer products maker Procter &amp; Gamble is up 7.2 percent from June 30 to Oct. 22. For all its substantial portfolio holdings, the cornerstone of Berkshire Hathaway's earnings comes from the dozens of businesses it controls, including insurance company Geico and railroad BNSF. Those companies and others helped bring Berkshire's profit last year to a record $19.48 billion. Nor have investors punished Berkshire Hathaway's own stock for the recent market gyrations. The class A shares of the conglomerate are up 16 percent this year, and up 8.75 percent since the second quarter. That handily beats the S&amp;P 500's tepid 4.3 percent gain so far this year. Last year, for the first time since Buffett took control of Berkshire in 1965, the company's five-year gain in book value per share underperformed the S&amp;P 500's five-year rise, including dividends but before tax. But Buffett has often said that Berkshire Hathaway will do best against the index in lackluster or even down markets. In recent years, stocks have been surging. And Buffett's preferred holding time of forever is well known, with the so-called Oracle of Omaha an advocate of buy-and-hold strategies for everyone from himself through Mom-and-Pop retail investors. Indeed, Buffett himself has often praised falling markets as buying opportunities. "Tumbling markets can be helpful to the true investor if he has cash available when prices get far out of line with values," he wrote in his annual letter to shareholders this year. "A climate of fear is your friend when investing; a euphoric world is your enemy."   (Reporting by Luciana Lopez; Editing by Martin Howell) FREE AppDownload
HSBC/ MarkitLate Wednesday, China released some economic data that's being characterized as an improvement and a 'beat' relative to expectations. While all of this is fair and accurate, it should not be interpreted as good. China's Flash Manufacturing PMI index climbed to 50.4 in October, up from 50.2 in September. It was better than the 50.2 expected by economists. And anything above 50 signals growth. However, the fact that it has been trending down for the last four years to a level that's only marginally above breakeven reaffirms the fact that China's economy is decelerating in a significant way. "While the manufacturing sector likely stabilized in October, the economy continues to show signs of insufficient effective demand," HSBC's Hongbin Qu said. The signals sent by the internals of the report also instilled very little confidence. "[T]he manufacturing output index fell to 50.7, a five-five month low (September:51.8), and the sub-indices for new orders and new export orders both lost momentum," Barclays' Jian Chang said. "Overall, although the improvement in the PMI is reassuring, the drivers of growth continue to come from the external sector; domestic activity remains soft. Price pressures have been declining, consistent with falling commodity prices, and the inventory buildup seems to be increasing." Deutsche BankFor much of the world, China is an important source of growth. According to IMF WEO data cited by Deutsche Bank, China will be the source of over $900 billion worth of GDP for the world. So it's not very encouraging that China's growth drivers are external while internally things are soft, as Chang says. "The Chinese economy is slowing rather than collapsing and in the current mood that’s relatively cheerful news," Societe Generale's Kit Juckes said. Of course the PMI report could've been worse. But it's not great. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock ExchangeBy Ryan Vlastelica NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stock index futures were higher on Thursday, implying a rebound from the previous session as investors used the drop to add to positions and looked ahead to the release of some key corporate reports for further incentives. * Major indexes traded higher for much of Wednesday's session but turned lower in afternoon trading, pressured in part by a shooting at the Canadian parliament. * AT&amp;T Inc  fell 1.4 percent to $34 in premarket trading, a day after the telecom giant reported weaker-than-expected revenue growth and cut its full-year forecast for consolidated revenue growth. * The Dow component's results followed similarly disappointing ones from Boeing Co  and Biogen  on Wednesday, though this earnings season has largely been positive for markets. With 27 percent of the S&amp;P 500 having reported, 68.9 percent have exceeded profit expectations, above the long-term average of 63 percent, according to Thomson Reuters data. * Among the companies reporting Thursday, Dow components 3M Co  and Caterpillar Inc  will be of particular interest, with investors looking for any impact on earnings from a robust U.S. dollar. * Multinational stocks have been hurt by the strong dollar this season. According to RBC Capital Markets, "domestically-oriented companies are on track to grow earnings by 9.1 percent vs. 1.5 percent for more global names and are beating by a greater percentage." * On the data front, weekly jobless claims due at 8:30 a.m. EDT (1230 GMT) are seen rising to 282,000 from last week's 264,000. The preliminary read on October manufacturing from financial data firm Markit at 9:45 a.m. is seen dipping to 57 from 57.5. * With Wednesday's decline, the S&amp;P fell back under its 150-day moving average, a sign that trading trends have not turned fully positive, though the index has not undergone a correction - defined as a 10 percent decline from a peak - since 2012, as investors have used market declines as buying opportunities. * The benchmark index moved 22.48 points between its high and low on Wednesday, above the 250-day average move of 15.64 points. In an indication of the market's recent volatility, the S&amp;P hasn't had a day with a below-average move since Sept. 23. Futures snapshot at 7:03 a.m.: * S&amp;P 500 e-minis  were up 5.75 points, or 0.3 percent, with 194,052 contracts changing hands. * Nasdaq 100 e-minis  were up 12.25 points, or 0.31 percent, in volume of 30,848 contracts. * Dow e-minis  were up 39 points, or 0.24 percent, with 32,439 contracts changing hands.    (Editing by Bernadette Baum) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Beawiharta Paul Polman has joined Unilever as CEO in 2009. He previously worked for Nestlé as CFO.Unilever said a "sharp" slowdown in China has weighed on sales as it reported a weaker-than-expected 2.1pc increase in third-quarter sales. The consumer goods giant said sales in China fell 20pc after retailers lowered stock levels in the face of lower demand. That dragged on global sales growth, which increased by 2.1pc to €12.2bn. Paul Polman, Unilever's chief executive, said : "Market growth slowed in emerging countries and particularly in China where we also experienced substantial trade de-stocking. Europe saw price deflation and poor summer weather compared with last year but conditions in North America started to improve." The weaker sales performance fell some way short of analysts' expectations for third-quarter sales growth of 3.7pc. The PG Tips and Dove soap maker said sales volume, measuring the amount of products sold, rose only 0.3pc, while analysts expected growth of 1.8pc. "Macro-economic conditions continued to put pressure on consumers," Mr Polman said in a statement. Nevertheless, the chief executive added that the company was confident it will achieve "another year of profitable volume growth ahead of our markets". FREE AppDownload
UK retail sales fell by 0.3% in September from August, the slowest growth seen in 2014, according to the Office of National Statistics.  Retailers said that unseasonably warm weather during the fall meant customers pushed off buying clothes for autumn and winter.  However, sales were up 2.7% compared with the same month last year, representing the 18th consecutive month of year-on-year growth. Spending was also up 1.3% compared with September 2013.  The chart below shows the amount of retail goods bought (sales volume, in red) compared with the amount spent (sales value, in blue).  ONS FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesSoros Fund Management chairman George Soros on Capitol Hill in Washington on Nov. 13, 2008. In an essay published Thursday in the New York Review of Books, Soros calls for more economic and military support for Ukraine, as well as the abandonment of the eurozone's current austerity programs. Here are his opening few lines [emphasis added]:  Europe is facing a challenge from Russia to its very existence. Neither the European leaders nor their citizens are fully aware of this challenge or know how best to deal with it. I attribute this mainly to the fact that the European Union in general and the eurozone in particular lost their way after the financial crisis of 2008. The fiscal rules that currently prevail in Europe have aroused a lot of popular resentment. Anti-Europe parties captured nearly 30 percent of the seats in the latest elections for the European Parliament but they had no realistic alternative to the EU to point to until recently. Now Russia is presenting an alternative that poses a fundamental challenge to the values and principles on which the European Union was originally founded. It is based on the use of force that manifests itself in repression at home and aggression abroad, as opposed to the rule of law. What is shocking is that Vladimir Putin’s Russia has proved to be in some ways superior to the European Union — more flexible and constantly springing surprises. That has given it a tactical advantage, at least in the near term. Soros is probably a better authority than most to talk about the threat from a divided Europe. In 1944, Soros was 13 years old and living in Hungary when Germany invaded. He goes on: It is high time for the members of the European Union to wake up and behave as countries indirectly at war. They are better off helping Ukraine to defend itself than having to fight for themselves. One way or another, the internal contradiction between being at war and remaining committed to fiscal austerity has to be eliminated. Where there is a will, there is a way. He ends on a call for the EU to be more "united, flexible, and efficient": There must be something wrong with the EU if Putin’s Russia can be so successful even in the short term. The bureaucracy of the EU no longer has a monopoly of power and it has little to be proud of. It should learn to be more united, flexible, and efficient. And Europeans themselves need to take a close look at the new Ukraine. That could help them recapture the original spirit that led to the creation of the European Union. The European Union would save itself by saving Ukraine.             FREE AppDownload
When former Unilever executive Dave Lewis took over as Tesco's new CEO in July — three months earlier than expected — he had no idea of the time bomb he was inheriting.  In September, the world's second-largest retailer announced that it overestimated its first-half profits by £250 million ($408 million), sending shares crashing. The British-based grocery chain swiftly axed four senior executives and hired an independent firm, Deloitte, to investigate the accounting scandal. On Thursday, the Deloitte review confirmed that Tesco overstated its profits by £263 million, an increase from the initial estimate. The company also announced that Sir Richard Broadbent would step down as chairman. A bunch of other executives have been asked to leave, too. The company also reported a steep fall in sales and revenue, down 4.6% and 4.5%, respectively. Pre-tax profit is down 91.9% from the same period last year to £112 million. In addition to addressing the disastrous results, Lewis discussed in a CEO call how the investigation had been progressing thus far: "The Tesco part of the investigation and the Deloitte part of investigation has been focused on identifying around commercial income exactly what the numbers are." Lewis also said that Deloitte had prevented the company from continuing its investigation: "What we can’t do is start an investigation around how those numbers came about and what it was that caused those numbers to be there, because there will be an investigation by the regulator and we will be very open and very proactive in our support of their investigation, but it’s not for us to start that investigation — that’s something that we have to support them with. So we have to wait for that." What's more, Lewis made the extraordinary admission that he would have taken the executive role even if he had known about Tesco's structural problems before being given the job. Here is what Lewis said:Tesco It is a surprising statement because it implies that the people who hired him — Broadbent et al — did not tell him about the disaster looming inside Tesco's books until after he arrived. Lewis had some idea that things were sliding at Tesco, of course. When former CEO Philip Clarke stepped down, revenue was tanking. Tesco's problem's were market-related, and Lewis, a marketing guru, was probably under the impression he could swoop in and turn things around. But Tesco's problems actually ran much deeper (words like "cover-up" and "whistleblower" are being thrown around), something Lewis was probably not aware of. FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/California High Speed Rail AuthorityA rendering of a new high speed train station to be built in California.SHANGHAI (Reuters) - China's CSR Corp Ltd is keen to supply high-speed trains to California, a company official said, in a move that will pit the trainmaker against domestic rival China CNR Corp Ltd. China has made no secret of its desire to export its high-speed technology abroad, having built over 12,000 kilometers of track at home in less than a decade. CNR and CSR are China's top locomotive makers, while China Railway Construction Corp Ltd and China Railway Group Ltd build track. U.S.-based SunGroup USA told Reuters earlier this week that it had teamed up with CNR and its unit Tangshan Railway in a pitch to supply California's $68 billion project with up to 95 trains that can travel as fast as 354 kilometers per hour (221 miles per hour). "The U.S. is a market that we have been closely watching for many years," said the official from CSR's publicity department, who gave his surname as Xu. "So when they requested expressions of interest we quickly notified them of ours," he said. Xu said CSR would be part of a group of companies including national track operator China Railway Corporation and China Railway Construction planning to pay a promotional visit to the United States at the end of this month. Officials at China Railway Corporation and China Railway Construction were not immediately available to comment. China Railway Corporation is not part of China Railway Group. Xu said it was possible for them to design a new high-speed train for the contract based on the California high-speed authority's specifications, though it would likely use its CRH380A train, which can travel up to 380 kph, as a base model. When asked about CNR, Xu said CSR's sales pitch did not involve CNR. Train manufacturers were expected to send in expressions of interest by Oct. 22 to the California High Speed Railway Authority, which will later issue formal requests for proposals. About a dozen firms from places such as Japan and Spain are expected to compete, the authority said. Separately on Thursday, CNR said on its website that it had been awarded a contract from Massachusetts to build 284 trains for the country's oldest subway system, the first win for a Chinese railway equipment maker in the United States. Local U.S. media reports said the contract was worth $566.6 million. Shares in CSR have risen 26 percent since the start of the year while CNR's have gained 49 percent. The benchmark Hang Seng index declined 0.1 percent. (Reporting by Brenda Goh; Editing by Ryan Woo) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mathieu BelangerGood morning! European markets are down early Thursday, after a similar drop in Asia overnight. Here's the scorecard, so far:  France's CAC 40 is down 0.60% Spain's IBEX is down 0.54% Italy's FTSE MIB is down 0.47% Britain's FTSE 100 is down 0.91% Germany's DAX is down 0.56% In Asia, the Nikkei closed down 0.37% and the Hang Seng is currently down 0.59% S&amp;P futures are up 0.19%, and Dow futures are climbing 0.16% higher.  Eurozone flash PMIs are out, it's good news for Germany, which looks like it's struggling a little less, and awful news for France, which increasingly looks like it's in recession. UK retail sales are out at 4:30 a.m. ET, with analysts expecting a 0.1% drop from August to September.  Later Thursday morning, in the US there are initial jobless numbers at 8:30 a.m. ET, followed by the house price index half an hour later. At 9:45 a.m. ET, Markit's manufacturing PMI figures will be released, with analysts expecting a 57 print, slightly down from last month.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Chris WattiePolice officers near Parliament Hill following a shooting incident in Ottawa on Wednesday.Good morning! Here's what you need to know for Thursday.  1. Much of downtown Ottawa was on lockdown Wednesday after a gunman, identified as Canadian Michael Zehaf-Bibeau, shot and killed a soldier at the National War Memorial on Parliament Hill.  2. Russian prosecutors have detained four Moscow airport workers, who officials say might be responsible for the plane crash that killed the CEO of the French oil giant Total, 63-year-old Christophe de Margerie.  3. The World Health Organization updated its Ebola figures, warning that the virus could infect 10,000 people in West Africa by early December, while 4,877 people had died from Ebola so far.  4. The National Institutes of Health has begun early human testing of an Ebola vaccine, called VSV-ZEBOV.  5. Tesco, the world's second-largest retailer, confirmed on Thursday that its first-half pre-tax profit had been overstated by £263 million, and the company announced that chairman Sir Richard Broadbent would step down.  6. US-led airstrikes against Islamic State militants in Syria have killed 553 people over the past month, with most of the dead being members of the jihadist group.  7. Swedish forces are still hunting for what the country believes are mysterious foreign vessels illegally operating in its waters.  8. Britain's National Health System says it needs an extra £8 billion a year after warning of a £30 billion annual shortfall that would develop by 2020.  9. Apple said the company would open 25 stores in China within the next two years.  10. Scientists have unraveled the oldest DNA ever, which comes from the femur of a man who died about 45,000 years ago. And finally ... Mark Zuckerberg speaks Mandarin.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Philippe Wojazer French President Francois Hollande at a news conference at the Elysee Palace in Paris on Jan. 14.France's PMI figure, a common business survey measure, fell to 48 and is now at an eight-month low.  Anything below 50 represents contraction. The current is figure is bad news, indicating that France's economy overall is back in recession. Germany, on the other hand, got a shot in the arm Thursday: Its PMI score was at 54.3, the highest in three months. Manufacturing was particularly good, edging back out of the contraction territory it looked like it was in last month. France's manufacturing is dreadful in comparison, coming in at 47.3. Economists had expected a 48.5 print. According to Twitter's Econhedge, the sub-index for new orders is falling even further, down to just 45.2. That's a strong signal that things could get even worse in the months ahead.  What's worse, the employment situation is deteriorating at the fastest pace in about 18 months. France's unemployment is already very high, at over 10%.Markit, Insee FREE AppDownload
The world's second-largest retailer confirmed that it overstated its profits by £263 million, an increase of £13 million from when the mis-stated amount was first announced last month.  Tesco reported a steep fall in sales, down 4.6%, and revenue, down 4.5% Pre-tax profit is down 91.9% from the same period last year to £112 million. In a statement, Broadbent said, "My decision reflects the important principle of accountability on behalf of the Board and will support the company to draw a line under the past as it enters the next phase of its development." Broadbent has received repeated to calls to resign since the massive profit error was announced in September.  FREE AppDownload
Reuters//Luke MacGregor Christophe de Margerie.Russian prosecutors have detained four more Moscow airport workers over a plane crash that killed the CEO of the French oil company Total Christophe de Margerie, the country's Investigative Committee said on Thursday. The committee has moved quickly to detain those it says might be responsible for the crash, which killed de Margerie and the crew of his private jet in a tragedy that has done little to improve Russia's reputation for poor air safety. But some have accused investigators of jumping to conclusions and trying to find a scapegoat by accusing the driver of the snowplow that hit de Margerie's plane of being drunk. His lawyer denied the allegations. The committee said in a statement that prosecutors had detained Vladimir Ledenev, the leading airfield service engineer at Moscow's Vnukovo airport, which was overseeing snow-clearing works on the night when the plane hit the snowplow. They had also detained the head of flights at the airport Roman Dunayev, dispatcher-trainee Svetlana Krivsun, as well as Vnukovo's dispatcher Alexander Kruglov. (Reporting by Katya Golubkova, editing by Elizabeth Piper) FREE AppDownload
TheRealMichaelMoore / Flickr According to UK Channel 4's Paul Mason, CEO Dave Lewis has been ordered by financial regulators not to explain the massive £250 million ($400 million) profit error that was revealed last month. That suggests that investors could be kept in the dark for months yet, just making the firm's situation worse. Here are the major takeaways from the results: New CEO Dave Lewis added: "Our business is operating in challenging times. Trading conditions are tough and our underlying profitability is under pressure." In a note, James Abbott at Accendo Markets says this is "a fall in organic British sales described as the worst performance in 40 years" in the City of London.  Since September's profit restatement, the share price has plunged and world-famous investor Warren Buffet has said his confidence in the retailer was a "huge mistake." The share price is now down to £1.83 ($2.93) from £3.71 ($5.94) a year ago, collapsing by more than 50%. What's more, financial analysts over at The Motley Fool think it could go much lower, down to more like £1: Bloomberg  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock ExchangeBy John McCrank NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. options market operators have agreed in recent months on the need for new automatic trading halts when stock options prices suddenly surge or plunge, in a bid to reduce excess volatility and blunt the impact of erroneous trades, according to five sources with knowledge of their discussions. The plan, which takes its cue from a rule known as "Limit Up/Limit Down" that U.S. stock markets put in place in response to the May 6, 2010 "Flash Crash," is still in the early stages, with market operators trying to figure out how a similar rule could be applied to options trading, the sources said.  In the stock market, if the price of a stock moves outside of a range of prices it has recently traded in for more than 15 seconds, the stock is briefly halted to give traders a chance to figure out if the move was justified, or if it might have been in error. There are currently 12 options markets in the United States, run by Nasdaq OMX Group, BATS Global Markets, Deutsche Boerse's ISE unit, TMX Group’s BOX Options Exchange, Miami International Holdings Inc and Intercontinental Exchange Inc's NYSE unit. "This initiative makes great sense for the industry to pursue and we're happy to work with market participants and regulators to make it a reality," said Jeromee Johnson, who runs BATS' options market. Boris Ilyevsky, managing director of ISE’s options exchanges, said that ISE supports the concept of a theoretical price band for options, noting that it would be an added risk protection mechanism for the market. He said the exchange is in discussion with regulators and other exchanges, adding that "much work remains to be done to create a structure that provides sufficient protection but also allows sufficient flexibility in volatile market conditions." The other market operators declined to comment. The options market plan is likely years away from being implemented. But the move by market operators highlights growing concerns over the speed and complexity of options markets, which are dominated by computerized trading, after a series of operational snafus in the markets in recent years. These include a software error by Goldman Sachs Group Inc in August 2013 that flooded stock options markets with bad trades, sending some options prices down sharply.  Operational risks are not limited to the options markets and there are worries that because of the interconnectedness of the ultra-fast electronic markets, a problem in one market could quickly spiral out of control and affect other asset classes. The idea of adding Limit Up/Limit Down to the options market has merit, said Michael Schwartz, chief options strategist at Oppenheimer &amp; Co Inc. "It would let them be able to stop and say, 'Did you mean to do that?'" he said. "It gives them a chance to make certain these are not erroneous and could affect other options that are trading."   The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority declined to comment.     LONG PROCESS Market structure changes can take time to implement, as different operators must come to agreement, figure out the technical details and have regulators sign off on the plans. The Limit Up/Limit Down rule in stock markets, for example, was proposed by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in April 2011. It was approved in June 2012, but not fully implemented at the exchanges until May 2014. The task is much more complicated in options markets, which means the equities rule cannot be simply pasted into the options rule book, the sources said.    The issues include the question of whether to base the price band on the option itself, or on the underlying stock. Further, there are around 5,000 companies publicly listed on U.S. stock exchanges to which the price bands apply. But there are more than half a million options series based on those stocks, and many of them rarely trade. Cognizant of these difficulties, options market operators have decided to take a two-step approach to bringing order to their markets, which currently operate under a disparate set of rules.    Sources previously told Reuters that the first part of the plan, which creates a uniform set of rules on how to deal with erroneous trades, is soon to be filed with regulators.  Options market operators would like to apply the price bands to options as the second phase of the plan, the sources said.  (Reporting by John McCrank; Editing by Paritosh Bansal and Martin Howell) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock ExchangeBy Tim McLaughlin BOSTON (Reuters) - U.S. corporate bond funds this year are adding Treasuries to their holdings at more than twice the rate of corporate debt amid concern that the struggling European economy and potential changes in Federal Reserve policy will drag down profits at U.S. corporations. Through September, corporate bond portfolios boosted their holdings of U.S. government debt by 15 percent, compared with a 6.5 percent increase in corporate bonds during the same period, according to Lipper Inc data. The funds now hold about $13 billion in Treasuries, 15 percent more than the $11.3 billion they held at the end of 2013. Corporate bond funds typically invest in a range of debt that includes mortgage-backed securities, U.S. Treasuries and bonds backed by student loans, credit cards and auto loans. Some corporate junk bond funds have guidelines that allow them to buy individual stocks. The move to buy Treasuries, which are more easily traded than most corporate bonds, show that managers anticipate market turmoil that could lead to redemption demands from investors. Matt Toms, head of fixed income at New York-based Voya Investment Management, said he has cut exposure to corporate bonds in favor of mortgage-backed securities, for example. In particular, he has reduced corporate debt issued by U.S. financial companies because of their exposure to the weak European economy. He sees mortgage-backed bonds as more U.S.-centric because they are backed by the ability of American homeowners to make good on their monthly mortgage payments. "The volatility in Europe could translate more quickly through the corporate debt issued by U.S. banks," Toms said. A year ago, the Voya Intermediate Bond Fund's top 10 holdings included debt issued by Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co and Goldman Sachs. But more recently, none of those banks' debt cracked the top 10 holdings of the fund, disclosures show. Toms, who runs the $1.9 billion Voya Intermediate Bond Fund, said nearly two-thirds of the portfolio's assets are in government bonds or government-related securities. "That's a highly liquid pool," he said. Michael Salm, co-head of about $60 billion in fixed-income assets at Putnam Investments, said slumping energy prices could also increase the rate of corporate defaults among junk-rated energy companies. He also said he sees subtle deterioration on the balance sheets of corporations outside the financial sector.  He didn't talk about any specific energy companies on the cusp of default and said company policy prohibits him from talking about individual securities. "They're starting to use leverage more, they're starting to do things that are less bondholder-friendly," said Salm, whose $1.7 billion Putnam Income Fund generated a 6.88 percent return during the 1-year period that ended Sept. 30. That was fifth best among core bond funds, according to Lipper. Some corporations have been issuing new debt to repurchase more of their own stock, which is viewed as a negative for bondholders. In June Fitch downgraded Monsanto's issuer default rating to "A-" from "A" after the company announced a new two year $10 billion share repurchase program. Bond fund managers would rather see the money be invested in activities that boost cash flow and growth, for example. To be sure, the average amount of corporate debt in corporate bond funds rose to 52 percent of current assets from 48.6 percent at the end of last year, according to Lipper, Inc, a unit of Thomson Reuters.  LIQUIDITY A WORRY One trouble is that it's become harder than ever to buy and sell corporate bonds in the secondary market as new regulations and capital requirements since the financial crisis forced Wall Street banks to slash their inventories. That has left a vacuum in matching buyers and sellers, and bond managers say they don't want to get caught holding too much of it in a rout. "Everyone sees the lack of liquidity as a potential risk in the corporate bond market," said Sumit Desai, the lead analyst for corporate credit funds at research firm Morningstar Inc. "But there hasn't been a major event to test the market." The value of corporate bonds held by U.S. mutual funds has more than doubled since 2007 to about $1.7 trillion.  Corporate bond issuance during the first nine months of 2014, driven by rock bottom interest rates, was $954 billion, compared with $1.08 trillion in the year-ago period, according to the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. Still, trading volumes have stayed about the same, according to research from BlackRock Inc, the world's largest asset manager. "Liquidity stinks," Toms said of corporate bonds. Last week, sales surged of 10-year Treasury notes in a flight to safety caused by weak signals from the U.S. economy. The yield on the benchmark note fell below 2 percent as the stock market gyrated. Loomis Sayles portfolio manager Matt Eagan said his $19 billion Strategic Income Fund is close to having a record level of reserves, largely in the form of government bonds. U.S. Treasuries account for about 16 percent of the portfolio, a four-fold increase since the end of 2013, he said. He said the fund has also cut exposure to the lowest rated corporate junk bonds because he doesn't believe he was getting paid for the risk he was taking. "We're giving up some yield to preserve the ability to be flexible," Eagan said. But he is still hunting for home runs. For a more aggressive investment strategy, the bond fund manager said he bought shares from the IPO of Chinese commerce company Alibaba Group Holding Ltd at $68 and then sold them at $91, for a quick 34 percent gain. "It definitely added to our performance," said Eagan, who bought the shares for the Loomis Sayles Strategic Alpha Fund, which has a mandate to invest in a wide range of fixed income and stock holdings.   At Fidelity's $10.5 billion Capital &amp; Income Fund, portfolio manager Mark Notkin made a similar play, adding Alibaba to a subportfolio of stocks that make up about 20 percent of the fund's overall assets. In the third quarter, the fund's stocks outperformed the junk bonds. Alibaba's stock was a top 10 holding in the fund at the end of September, fund disclosures show.  (Reporting By Tim McLaughlin; Additional reporting by Ross Kerber; Editing by Richard Valdmanis and John Pickering) FREE AppDownload
