REUTERS/David GrayAfter some heavy selling in Asia in recent trading sessions, markets are getting a reprieve. Japan's Nikkei is up 0.5% China's Shanghai Composite is up 0.6% Korea's KOSPI is up 0.2%  Hong Kong's Hang Seng is up 0.1% Australia's S&amp;P/ASX 200 is down 0.6% Last week saw a sell-off in the U.S. and global stock markets. After climbing during trading on Monday, U.S. stocks finished in the red.  The sell-off has largely been blamed on the emerging markets, though BlackRock's Russ Koesterich thinks the sell-off in U.S. markets is also partly because of stretched valuations and lackluster earnings. All eyes are on the FOMC meeting announcement on Wednesday, when the Fed will reveal whether it will taper its monthly asset purchase program again. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Vladimir NikolskyLast week was pretty ugly for global stock markets, and closed in the red again on Monday. The responsibility for that misery was placed squarely on the shoulders of emerging markets. Currencies in emerging market nations like Turkey, South Africa, and Argentina have taken a beating. But BlackRock's Russ Koesterich thinks, that while emerging markets did play a part, the decline in U.S. stocks could be "attributed to issues closer to home." Stretched valuations and lackluster earnings are also to blame he writes. "We have discussed previously that last year's gains were powered primarily by multiple expansion, meaning prices were rising faster than underlying corporate earnings. In fact, 2013 saw the largest single-year increase in market valuations since 1998. As stocks grew more expensive over the last year, bonds became less so. As a result, we have been seeing some investors (notably large institutional investors) shifting more assets into bonds over the past few weeks. This helps explain why bond yields have been declining since the start of the year. "On a related point, corporate earnings so far have been less than stellar for the current reporting cycle. Last year's rally was, to a large extent, based on an act of faith that the economy and corporate earnings would improve, which would, in turn, justify higher stock prices. While the economy does appear to be mending, improvements are modest and so far are not evident in corporate earnings reports. "It is still relatively early in the fourth-quarter reporting season, and to date, the results have been respectable, but hardly inspiring. The percentage of companies that are reporting better-than-expected results is actually below the four-year average, which appears to be frustrating investors. We're seeing this frustration in the form of fund flows: U.S. equity funds have been seeing outflows, while European and global equity funds have been attracting assets." Koesterich thinks investors should prepare for more volatility this year and thinks investors should diversify into international stocks. FREE AppDownload
Apple fell hard today after whiffing on iPhone sales. Now in Asian trading, companies that supply parts (such as the screens) to Apple devices are tanking. Here's a few via CNBC world: CNBC World FREE AppDownload
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVGluskin Sheff's David Rosenberg has previously warned that 2014 could see a return to inflationary pressures. Take into account that income inequality is becoming a major concern — as evidenced at the World Economic Forum in Davos, and President Obama is expected to address it in the State of the Union as well — and wage inflation is expected to trickle into inflation. Rosenberg now writes that there are "more signs of wage pressures." "The Fed's Beige Book contained no fewer than two dozen references to wage pressures and skilled job shortages and in sectors that cover around 40 million workers. I realize the average hourly and weekly earnings data from the non farm payroll survey are tepid but a big disconnect seems to have emerged between those measures and the broad wage/salary growth numbers out of the National Accounts data. After all, if Macroeconomic Advisors is anywhere near the ball park, nominal GDP growth is now advancing at over a 5% YoY clip and we know that this is not because of booming profit growth any more. "So returns to labor seem to be a proper theme. And what we get in return from whatever margin compression occurs will be social stability — income inequality is becoming a serious issue (Davos) and must be tackled. Hence the push by a variety of states to boost the minimum wage. To this end, I did notice this little ditty in the weekend FT — Organized Labor Held Steady in '13 on page A5 — keeping in mind that unionized workers have much higher median weekly earnings). In any event, the multi-year drop in union membership rates came to a screeching halt in 2013 at 11.3% and now we have more in the private sector (7.3 million) than in the government (7.2 million) which has not happened in a very long time. "But make no mistake, there is a deepening policy rush in this direction while it may well represent responsible fiscal policy,  I also sense a return to some cost-push inflation as a result (and no, globalization with no longer bail us out — not with China's unit labor costs now rising at a double-digit annual rate)." Rosenberg has previously said that inflation is "a long-forgotten word in central banking parlance," and that this could prompt the Fed to scale back its asset purchase program at an even faster pace. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Soe Zeya TunArief of Indonesia celebrates after winning first place in a rowing eventFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Four Things The Most Successful Advisors Have In Common (Vanguard)  In a post-financial crisis world advisors are under pressure to generate impressive returns and to outperform other advisory firms. But Vanguard CIO Tim Buckley thinks there are four things the most successful advisors do. 1. They are behavioral coaches who help clients "get on the right path and prevent them from taking wrong turns." 2. They are "tax-efficient through prudent asset location and tax-smart spending strategies." 3. They keep investment costs low. 4. They rebalance in a disciplined fashion. "Vanguard believes that advisors who successfully apply these basic concepts can add about three percentage points to their clients' annual returns versus advisors who don't." Millennials Are The Most Financially Conservative Since The Great Depression (FA Mag) Millennial or Generation Y investors, those in the 21-36 age group, are the most financially conservative investors since the Great Depression, according to a UBS Investor Watch survey. 34% of Millennials said their risk tolerance was conservative or somewhat conservative, with their average asset allocation of 52% cash, compared with 23% for other investors. "They have a Depression-era mindset largely because they experienced market volatility and job security issues very early in their careers, or watched their parents experience them, and it has had a significant impact on their attitudes and behaviors," Emily Pachuta, head of investor insights, UBS Wealth Management Americas told FA Mag. PIMCO To Start 19 Actively Run ETFs (Bloomberg)  PIMCO, the world's largest bond manager plans to launch 19 activity managed exchange traded funds (ETFs), according to Alexis Leondis at Bloomberg. These will be variations of mutual funds like PIMCO Income and PIMCO Municipal Bond. "We believe actively managed ETFs provide another way for investors to access Pimco’s global strategies across fixed income, equities and commodities, all backed by the firm’s time-tested investment process," the firm told Bloomberg. It's Pretty Crazy How Different Pension Funds Look Around The World (Business Insider) Pension funds which took a huge hit during the financial crisis did very well for themselves dying the 2013 stock market rally. Not experts expect many pension funds to lower their exposure to stocks and increase their exposure to bonds. "We expect nearly $150bn of annual S&amp;P pension asset allocation equity outflows in 2014 and 2015 as the average equity allocation of S&amp;P 500 plans drops from 45% to roughly 30%," Deutsche Bank's David Bianco said. "We do not see this as a threat to healthy S&amp;P 500 returns through 2015, but it should help slow the ascent in long-term interest rates and keep corporate credit spreads tight." UBS Investors Have Been Bailing Out Of The Emerging Markets For 13 Straight Weeks (UBS)  Investors are increasingly anxious about higher interest rates in the U.S. which means a stronger dollar and is bad for emerging economies with large current account deficits. This has caused money to leave emerging markets and flood into U.S. Treasuries. "[Global Emerging Market] funds saw further outflows of approx. $2.4 billion last week, after $1.3 billion of outflows in the prior week," UBS's Geoff Dennis said in a note.  "This is now the 13th consecutive week of outflows from EM funds, the longest such streak since 2002. All fund types (by region), saw outflows last week. On a four-week moving average basis, there have been net outflows of $1.1 bn from dedicated GEM funds; $0.3 bn from LatAm; $0.1bn from Asia ex Japan and $0.05 bn from EMEA," Dennis wrote. "In the first three weeks of 2014, GEM funds have seen total outflows of $5.0 billion (MSCI GEMs is down today by 5% YTD), following outflows of $15.9 billion for the whole of 2013." FREE AppDownload
Apple's earnings for the final quarter of 2013 are out. It was a big miss on iPhone sales, but revenue and profit are still looking good. Here's a quick breakdown of everything you need to know in four charts. BII BII Business Insider Intelligence BII BII FREE AppDownload
Yes, private jets are swanky. But if you can spend less money to get an equally luxurious experience in first or business class, why not fly with an airline? A quick search turns up one-way first class flights from New York to Los Angeles for around $1,000. The same flight with private jet charter company JetSuite costs over $4,500 per passenger. That's a lot of money to justify for the added luxury of having no one else around.  To find out what the real benefits to flying private are, we spoke with Steve Cass, Vice President of Communications at private jet maker Gulfstream. It all comes down to saving time, which means saving money. It starts on the way to the airport. Small jets don't need the huge runways and staffs offered by major airports, so they can fly out of smaller spots. There are many more minor airports than major ones, so you often don't have to travel as far to get to one. And they're less congested, making the experience more pleasant. You don't have to deal with the TSA or long check-in lines, so you can you arrive at airport minutes, not hours, in advance. That's time, money, and aggravation saved. And when you get off, your bags are thrown right into your car, so there's no time spent at the baggage carousel. Plus, you fly when you want. Flying commercial, Cass said, "we adjust our schedule to meet the needs of the airline." In the sphere of private aviation, it's the other way around. Private flights aren't tied to the same hub and spoke networks used by airlines, so if your plane has enough fuel capacity to reach your destination, you'll go direct. "That saves a huge amount of time," Cass said. Private jets are usually designed to climb faster than airliners, so they're above crummy weather sooner. They usually fly faster, too. Commercial jets cruise around 35,000 feet, smaller jets typically fly higher. That puts them above the traffic, so their routes are more direct — they don't compete with bigger planes for space. The extra flexibility lets the jets capture better winds and avoid adverse weather, too. On top of moving faster and wasting less time, it's easier to get work done in the air when you're alone. Even in first or business class, Cass pointed out, it's risky to have confidential conversations, because you don't know who may be around. He also directed us to a 2009 survey by the National Business Aviation Association. Respondents rated themselves as 20% more productive while on company aircraft than in the office. Their counterparts flying commercial reported a 40% drop in productivity. So the next time you wonder why companies spend tens of millions to buy their own jets instead of putting employees on commercial fights, know that it's not about creature comforts. It's about saving time and money. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Zoran MilichStocks climbed back after a rout but ended up in the red. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
Mike Nudelman/Business InsiderCharlie Shrem, the CEO of Bitcoin exchange site BitInstant, was arrested earlier today and charged with money laundering. Among other things, Shrem serves as vice chairman for the Bitcoin Foundation, the unofficial custodian for the digital currency. This afternoon the Foundation, which is based in California, released the following statement:  "We are surprised and shocked by the news today. As a foundation, we take these allegations seriously and do not condone illegal activity. "The Board was hit with the news the same time as everyone else so they will need time to assemble (since they live across multiple time zones) and discuss next steps. As a professional organization with a governance structure in place, the Board has a responsibility to respond thoughtfully and in accordance to the governing bylaws."  The Winklevoss twins also released a statement this afternoon — they'd led a major funding round for BitInstant. "We look forward to clearer regulation being implemented on the purchase and sale of bitcoins," they said. FREE AppDownload
We're looking for a hardworking individual with strong quantitative and analytical skills to join a growing team of analysts at Business Insider Intelligence. The candidate must also be an excellent writer. What Is BI Intelligence? BI Intelligence is a subscription research service from Business Insider that provides in-depth analysis and insights on the tech industry. We publish newsletters, news notes and in-depth reports as well as an exhaustive library of charts and data that help individual and corporate subscribers stay on top of key tech trends. The service, launched in 2012, has experienced rapid growth and has expanded from its original focus on mobile to cover additional tech-related topics, including digital payments, video, and e-commerce. This is an opportunity to join a team that's redefining what a professional tech research service can be. Check out BII here.  What's The Job?  The ideal Research Analyst will have a deep interest in tech news and feel comfortable analyzing a wide range of tech-related topics, including social, mobile, e-commerce, digital marketing, and mobile payments. The Research Analyst will support the research team in data-related tasks. These will include: creating charts, curating and updating data sets, researching/sourcing data, and managing data and document production. Desired Skills &amp; Experience: The candidate will complement their strong data-processing ability with excellent writing skills. The ideal candidate would also have an interest in visual data presentation — charts, graphics, etc. After a training period, the candidate will be expected to independently produce full-length research reports of value to our members. The role is full-time and based in our New York City offices. No requests for off-site or part-time work will be considered. If this role is for you, here are some of the other traits you must possess: Skills: This role offers a unique opportunity to straddle the journalism and business/consulting worlds. It would be an excellent way to sharpen your skills before business school, or launching a career in digital media, research, or business journalism.  If interested, please apply here. Thank you in advance. FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Stephen Lam Apple fell over 8% in after-hours trading after earnings results disappointed investors. Though it beat expectations on revenue and EPS, Apple had a huge miss on the only thing that really matters, iPhone sales. It sold 51 million units, a 6.7% jump in sales year-over-year, which was lower than sell-side expectations of 54.7 million. The whisper number was 56-57 million. On the earnings call with analysts, Apple hinted the low growth was due to a contraction in North American iPhone sales. Apple CEO Tim Cook blamed changes in carrier policies for the North American sales drop. Previously, customers could upgrade their iPhones after less than 24 months. Today, carriers are strictly enforcing a 24 month upgrade period. Cook thinks that in 3-6 months this will wash out, and be less of a drag on iPhone sales growth. Cook was asked if he was worried that Apple is only growing at a single digit rate compared to the overall smartphone market which is up double digits. He said that the important thing for Apple is to grow in emerging markets, and it is. He rattled off the following growth numbers:  In China, Apple just added China Mobile, the world's biggest carrier, which should boost sales in the long run. Cook called the China Mobile deal a "watershed" in Apple's history. iPhone sales weren't the only thing that were a let down. The company's guidance was also well below expectations: mid-point was $43 billion versus analysts expecting $45.74 billion for next quarter. At $43 billion, Apple would have a year-over-year drop in revenue in the March quarter.  On the call, Apple attributed the guidance to four things:  The good news from the December quarter is that Apple beat expectations on the top and bottom line, despite weaker than expected iPhone sales. Revenue was $57.6 billion, up 5.6% on a year-over-year basis. EPS was $14.08, up 2% year-over-year.  The reason revenue and EPS were stronger than expected is that the average selling price of the iPhone was well up on a quarterly basis. The average iPhone sold for $637, up from $577 last quarter. This is because the iPhone 5S sold well, better than even Apple expected relative to the less costly iPhone 5C. Another reason revenue and EPS were up: Apple sold 26 million iPads, a 13.5% increase year-over year. That's up 84.4% sequentially.  The iPad is the biggest growth opportunity in Apple's line up right now. But that could change by the end of the year.  At the end of Apple's earnings call, Piper Jaffray analyst Gene Munster asked Cook to confirm that Apple would release new products in new product categories by the end of 2014. Cook's response: "Yes, absolutely." Cook wasn't specific about any new category, but said that the world is filled with overly complex products that he thinks Apple can improve. There is no problem at Apple thinking about new products to release, says Cook. The challenge is focusing Apple's energy on the right stuff, which he says Apple is doing.  So, while this may have been a disappointing quarter for Apple, the rest of the year promises to be exciting.  Here's all the most important numbers versus expectations: Other numbers: Piper Jaffray Apple analyst Gene Munster put out a quick note on the quarter before the earnings call. He called the quarter "disappointing" and said focus will shift to the iPhone 6: The overriding theme from tonight's results will be an increased debate about iPhone unit growth going into the iPhone 6 product cycle (likely Fall 2014). More specifically, we believe the debate will be centered around the trade-off between higher ASPs (exceeded expectations in Dec-13) vs lower unit growth (lower than expectations at 7% in Dec-13). The second key topic will likely center on clarity around new products and Apple's growth outlook beyond 2014. We remain buyers of AAPL as we enter the iPhone 6 cycle and the potential for new products in the back half of 2014. BII BII BII CFO Peter Oppenheimer starting the call... 5:01: He said it was the most revenue every generated by a tech company. He said there was FX headwinds, without them, revenue would have been higher. On iPhone, he said there were 5S supply constraints.  5:06: iPad: Up 14%, represents a new all time record. iPad robust in China where sales doubled. Customers loving iPad Air and Mini w. Retina. Response to iPad Mini has been strong. ChangeWave said 72% would buy an iPad. 90%+ satisfaction among iPad owners. 5:08: Oppenheimer talking about iPad being big in the enterprise. Nearly all NFL teams used iPads for playbooks. Schools choose iPads. Over 20,000 iPads at Ohio State, over 70 iTunes U apps.  5:10: Please iOS leads in user engagement. iOS was more than twice and more than 5X online sales compared to Android, per IBM. Latest reports from Chitikia, iPad 78% of traffic in the U.S., great than the share of our devices. Shows how important to the people that own them.  5:11: 80% of devices on iOS7. Most popular OS in the world.  5:12: On Mac ... Mac sales grew in each operating segment. Up 19%. Pleased since the was a 6% y/y contraction. Happy to begin selling Mac Pro made in the U.S. Talking about 30th anniversary of the Mac. "Happy birthday Mac, imagine what we can accomplish in the next 30 years." 5:13: $4.4 billion, up 19% y/y for iTunes and software/services. Strong growth in App Stores sales. Software and services was $2 billion, a new record despite giving away iWork. Deferred revenue was $11 billion. 5:15: In China, iOS app community. 130,000 apps in App Store to date. 5:16: Top developers continue to launch first or exclusively on App Store. Clumsy Ninja had 10 million 1st week. Plants v Zombie had 60 million in first 5 days alone, biggest launch for an EA game. 5:18: Apple retail stores... $7 billion, up 9%, a new record. iPhone and iPad sales drove it. Remodeled 6 stores, opened 4 new stores. 166 outside the US. Average revenue $16.7 million comp to $16.3 million year ago. 114 million visitors, 21,000 per store per week. Now talking about iBeacon... 5:19 Op Ex: $4.4 billion. Tax: 26.2%  5:20: Cash: $158.8 billion, up $12 billion q/q. $34.4 billion domestic, down 1.1 billion, 78% was off shore at end of quarter, cash flow from operations $27.2 billion. $5 billion share purchases.  5:20: Outlook: Revenue $24-$44, compared to $43.6 billion.  5:21: Closing remarks ... happy with record numbers, happy with engaged and happy customers.  Q&amp;A WITH ANALYSTS Katy Huberty: Revenue has a sequential decline that's pretty big, talk about what is driving caution? Peter Oppenheimer: Biggest reason, changes in channel inventory. Go thru some things on the guidance... Expect 4 factors to negatively impact revenue on y/y. Channel increases in year ago, lower iPod, strong dollar, higher per unit deferral.  1. Channel inventory: In March q last year, increased for iPhone and iPad. This year, did that in December quarter. For iPhone, iPhone supply was short for December quarter for iPhone 5, didn't get balance until March quarter. This year, executed fastest roll out, exit quarter in supply and demand balance. For ipad, we introduced Mini last year, didnt get supply/demand balance until March last year. In contrast, exited near supply/demand balance. Expect value to grow y/y. 2. iPod sales declined by 52%, expect to decline in March quarter.  3. FX headwinds against strengthening dollar, especially Japan.  Huberty: Follow up... Oppenheimer: Let me let another person take you through guidance.  (Didn't catch name of new person on the call): Going through more details. Saying investing in R&amp;D, investing in services that will help for the future. Bill Shope from GS: Ramp of China Mobile would be a tailwind, no?  Oppenheimer: We're thrilled to be working with China Mobile, and DoCoMo, also. Great launch with both. These will have a positive impact y/y. China Mobile 4G only in 16 cities. Will roll out more cities by year end. With DoCoMo, achieve 69% market share in Japan, which we're thrilled with. However, benefit this quarter offset by late launch of iPhone 5 in China. Supply/demand for iPad Mini and Mac. We're pleased with what we're seeing from both carriers, but got some offsetting things. Tim Cook: I would add, we've been selling with China Mobile for a week. Last week was best week we've ever had for activations in China. Incredible start. Only in 16 cities, projected to be 300 cities by end of the year. Comes after a new high water mark last q. Grew revenue by 31% last quarter. Strong sales on iPads, up 64% y/y, Mac up 28%, compares to tablet at 21% per IDC and a PC market contracting in greater China. We're proud of quarter in China. Shope: Cost curve comments? Cook: Projected GM 37-38% going from holiday to non holiday, so one of hte primary things is cost. We're happy with how we're doing.  Shannon Cross at Cross Research: Mobile payment? What are you seeing with touch sensor?  Tim Cook: In general, seeing people love buy content from their iPhone using Touch ID, incredibly simple/easy/elegant. Mobile payments is one we're intrigued with, one of the thoughts behind touch ID, not limiting ourselves to that. You can look at demo of our customers, commerce through iOS, it's a big optty. Toni at Sanfor Bernstein: iPhone market share... look at prior 4 quarters, iPhone up 20%, market in the 40s. iPhone will be fraction of the market. Why can't you gain unit share even with "best product"? Will you do something different?  Cook: Our objective to make best, not the most. We're doing that. Look at what we did this year. Two phones. Look at last quarter, entry phone, mid phone ... all grew y/y versus prior year. Look at the emerging markets, which I think is key. In latin America up 76% y/y. Middle East/Africa up 65%, Central/Eastern Europe up 115%, in China up 20%, but as you know added China Mobile, Japan was up 40%. In North America not as well. North America contracted somewhat y/y. Reason for this: 1. As we entered the quarter, and forecasted our iPhone sales, we achieved what we thought, sold more iPhone 5Ss than projected. Took us some amount of time to build mix customers were demanding, as a result lost some units. Took all of quarter to get into 5S proper supply. Other thing in North America, some carriers changed upgrade policies, this affected last quarter, will have an affect on this quarter. Stretched to a hard and fast 24 months, a major factor for North America. As i back up, one of hte most important things: Important in EM, best in that respect. Another to grow in China, cant be in the business we're in and not have a good china business. Part of NA is a short term affect of policy changes, affects 3-6 months then it washes through. I feel good about where we are. Market numbers will be decreased as you hear what everyone is saying. Shope: Long term measure of china mobile success? Cook: Not going to give a forecast for it. But... China Mobile has more subs than anyone in the world. I see it as a watershed moment for Apple. Strong belief in the abilities of the two companies to work together.  Ben Reitzes: Are you still a growth company?  Cook: I think it's important to listen to what Peter said about guidance. Underlying sell through, confident about growth. Some look at the numbers, but way I look at business, from a sell through, less iPod. All of us have known, IPod is declining. When you look at that, look at last quarter, comes up to a double digit growth.  Follow up: Buying back stock? Cook: We've been buying back stock, progressing on that, big believer in that. Doesn't change today if stock is up or down. UBS: Steve Milunovich: GM was high, why? Answer: Above guidance range, favorable product mix and favorable commodity pricing. For Q2, we guide 37-38%, some loss of leverage because of seasonal decline. UBS: Follow up. Can you show a unit growth? 5C? Cook: To your question about 5S, if I look at the sell-thru, there was growth in that portion of our line despite a new phone underneath it and I think that's a good sign, and that's with it in short supply all quarter. I do believe that category can grow in U.S. and western Europe. In Japan grew 40%, that's fairly good. We missed the question, but this is Cook's answer ... Cook: Saw a significant new to iPhone number, particularly on the 5C. Not just upgraders. Upgraders in North America less than expected because of change in policy. [Innovation] has never been stronger, customers going to love what we're going to do.  Bank of Montreal: Tim, Growing iPhones 7%, market will be 14%. Are you happy with pricing umbrellas you have? In particular the 5C?  Cook: last quarter we did a tremendous job, mix. Demand percentage turned out to be different than we thought. If we decide it's in our interest to make a change, then we make one. Not going to predict price changes on the call. Our line in the sand is making something that's not fantastic. Follow up: Question on inventory? Is December worse than expected if inventory is better? Oppenheimer: 4 factors we expect to be over $2 billion. Inventory is the largest. Other 3 less than inventory. Not too terribly far apart.  Question about R&amp;D... Cook: Working on things you can't see today. JPM: Question, what is user data telling you on replacement cycle?  Cook: Don't have answer.  JPM: Op Ex flat, optty in enterprise?  Cook: Clear enterprise has huge potential.  Gene Munster: Previous quarters, you've talked about product categories, by end of 2014, is that on track? Cook: Yes, absolutely, no change.  Munster follow up: New product categories, beyond 2014, as they ramp in 2015, what would you say? Cook: I wouldn't answer that question. Innovation embedded here. World so full of complex products. We have 0 issues of coming up with stuff we want to do. Challenge is always focus to the very few that deserve our energy. We've always done that and we will continue to do that.  AND THAT'S IT! THANKS FOR READING! FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ Brendan McDermidBill Stiritz, the CEO/chairman of Post Holdings, is the largest individual shareholder of Herbalife stock.Shares of Herbalife spiked today on news that the stock's most bullish analyst was leaving his firm.  According to Fox Business Network's Charlie Gasparino, D.A. Davidson analyst Tim Ramey is leaving his firm.  According to Gasparino, he's possibly headed to join forces with Bill Stiritz.  CNBC's Scott Wapner reported that Ramey sent a letter out today that said he's going to do "some consulting on strategy, M&amp;A, and corporate development for a significant company working with executives where I have had a long and productive relationship."  Ramey is known for being super bullish and incredibly vocal on Herbalife. When Business Insider reached Ramey on his phone he said, "No comment."  Stiritz, 77, is the CEO/chairman of food company Post Holdings. He's also the largest individual shareholder of Herbalife.  It's been reported that he wants to help Herbalife undergo a leveraged buyout (LBO).   Herbalife is a multi-level marketing company that sells nutritional products like weightloss shakes and supplements.   It's the company that hedge fund manager Bill Ackman is massively short.  Ackman, who runs Pershing Square, believes the company operates as an illegal "pyramid scheme."  He publicly declared in December 2012 that he's short about 20 million shares of Herbalife with a price target of $0.  In other words, he thinks the company will be shut down by regulators.  A bunch of other fund managers, including Ackman's rival Carl Icahn, have disagreed with Ackman and have gone long the stock.   Last week, shares of Herbalife fell about 12% on news that a senator from Massachusetts had sent letters to the FTC and SEC asking that they investigate the nutrition company. Here's the chart:  Yahoo! Finance FREE AppDownload
U.S. equities are recovering after getting run over earlier today.  The Dow is back in positive territory at 0.14%. The S&amp;P500, which was down nearly 50 points earlier, is back up to 0.05%. And the NASDAQ, which had fallen more than 100 points, is now down just 0.50%.  Meanwhile, gold futures are down 0.55%, though crude is still off nearly 1%. Here's the S&amp;P: Bloomberg FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Athar HussainLast year Morgan Stanley declared the Brazilian real, the Indonesian rupiah, the South African rand, the Indian rupee, and the Turkish lira as the "Fragile Five." These were the troubled emerging market currencies under the most pressure against the U.S. dollar. And each of these has a significant current account deficit problem. Speaking to Business Insider's Joe Weisenthal at Davos, economist Nouriel Roubini said "there is a layer of political uncertainty, with the "Fragile Five" having parliamentary or presidential elections: India, Indonesia, Turkey, Brazil, South Africa." Here's a quick reminder of the Fragile Five and what to watch for there. Brazil real The real is down over 15% against the USD in the past year. Brazil has a current account deficit of 3.59% of GDP. Speaking in London, Brazil's central bank president Alexandre Tombini said policymakers would fight inflation in a statement that was more hawkish than some had expected. The central bank has already raised its Selic rate seven consecutive times to 10.5% to clamp down on inflation.  "The Brazilian response has been very classic – tightening policy, using foreign reserves as buffers," Tombini told the Financial Times. "Other countries will have to follow suit<U+2009>.<U+2009>.<U+2009>.<U+2009>some may be reluctant." Brazil will see presidential, general and local elections in the fourth quarter of 2013. Indian rupee The rupee is down some 14% against the USD in the past year. India has a current account deficit of 4.37% of GDP. India's wholesale price inflation has been cooling but the slowdown in food prices could be temporary. Meanwhile, consumer prices are still high at 9.87%. WPI doesn't factor in the cost of services and because it accounts for prices at the wholesale level it doesn't measure prices as they trickle down to the consumer. But the downward trend in inflation does give the Reserve Bank of India room to keep interest rates on hold, even as the government tries to curb expenditures, in an election year, as it tries to rein in its fiscal deficit. "With external demand showing signs of petering out and domestic demand remaining highly fragile, the economy is clearly on a weak footing," writes Kunal Kundu of Societe Generale. India sees general elections in May. There is some concern that no matter which party is voted into power, it will have to form a coalition with smaller parties and some states will continue to be controlled by opposition parties and that too could stall reform. Indonesian rupiah The rupiah was the worst performing emerging market currency in 2013 and is down 21% against the USD in the past year. Indonesia has a current account deficit of 3.71% of GDP. Some expect that the rupiah will strengthen in the second half of this year after its presidential elections on July 9. The country has seen some unrest following fuel price hikes. The central bank kept its key rate unchanged in January after raising it 175 basis points since early June. While Indonesia is worried about its current account deficit, it is unlikely to raise rates on account of inflation which it expects will ease to its target range this year. Turkish lira The lira is down 24% against the USD in the past year. Turkey has a current account deficit of 7.22% of GDP. The lira has been getting punished on the back of a corruption scandal threatening prime minister Tayyip Erdogan and the ruling AKP party. But Turkey also has a current account deficit and unsustainable construction fueled economic growth. The central bank has called for an emergency meeting and some are anticipating that it will raise rates to help bolster the currency. But economists warn that any reprieve could be temporary. Turkey sees municipal elections in March and a presidential election in August. South African rand The rand is down over 19% against the USD in the past year. South Africa has a current account deficit of 6.8% of GDP. Like the other countries on this list the rand is weighed down by South Africa's current account deficit (CAD) and a rising real effective exchange rate (REER) which is expected to worsen CAD concerns. The rand is also more vulnerable to a slowdown in China and the impact that it could have on commodity prices, specifically industrial metals. In South Africa, we saw wildcat protests to raise the wages of the lowest-paid miners so they were growing faster than inflation. South Africa has notoriously kept its interest rate unchanged since July 2012. Note all CAD figures are as of September 30, 2013. FREE AppDownload
I've sold the lot because I've recently become convinced that the tech boom has fully boomed, and thus I ought to sell at what appears to be a market top. First I'll discuss the technical matter of the sale, and then I'll explain what I think is happening with tech stocks more broadly. Sure, the market may yet go higher. This tech boom may go cruising onward for years, and maybe I'm missing out on the sweetest gains either company has yet to provide. But I'm pretty happy with my decision. I bought Google about four years ago when it was ~$561 a share, as it started to recover from the 2008 crash. It was trading at ~$1,125 when I sold it. (That means I turned a stake of about $1,122 into $2,250.) That's a gain of almost exactly 100%. As for Facebook, Business Insider readers laughed at me when I picked it up at ~$31 in 2012, because the stock promptly collapsed to ~$17. My investment "thesis" (modest cough) came true, however. Most people didn't understand how Facebook makes money, and as Facebook piled on the revenues quarter by quarter, investors piled in after me, bidding up the price nicely. I sold it at $54.69, a gain of 74%. (That means I turned a stake of $944 into $1,640.) And yes, I'm aware that I'm not exactly Warren Buffett when it comes to the scale of my trading. What I think is happening with stocks generally and tech stocks specifically can be seen in these two charts. First, the S&amp;P 500 index: Yahoo And here's the more tech heavy NASDAQ: Yahoo Both charts show something similar — stocks have once again neared the peaks they hit in the 2007 real estate bubble and the 2000 dot com bubble before it. If you believe that stocks are a simple matter of buying low and selling high, then now is the time to sell and walk away. Then there is this chart of the Fed's effective interest rates: FRED The Fed has held interest rates at zero for a long time. That's an awful lot of cheap money. It's a good assumption that a lot of that cheap money is ballooning the stock market right now. So the moment the Fed raises rates — to battle inflation or just to cool down an overheated period of growth — it's likely that money will pour out of stocks and into cash savings, where higher interest rates are more attractive. I'm simply getting out before the Fed does that — it's already "tapering" its support for the economy. Yahoo FinanceGoogle's stock since its 2004 IPO.There is nothing fundamentally wrong with either Google or Facebook. I want to make this clear: both companies have a lot of revenue growth ahead of them. In fact, I'm slightly stressed about selling their stocks because I think that in 10 or 20 or 30 years, we'll be talking about FB and GOOG the way people talk about AAPL stock from the 1980s — if you held it, you were smart. I'm not selling either stock because I believe the companies are facing some fundamental period of weakness or retraction. Rather, I'm selling them because I think they've both been buoyed by general market momentum, and when that momentum comes to a halt they'll tumble along with everyone else. At that point, when their prices fall, I'll consider buying them again. Yahoo FinanceFacebook's stock since its IPO in 2012.About that conflict of interest. Usually, journalists are forbidden from investing in the companies they write about because it might make them biased. It's a good rule. At BI we have a more liberal policy, merely requiring transparency and disclosure. I wondered if owning these stocks might make me biased in favor of the companies. I don't think it did. In part, it made me biased against them, because I was always on the lookout for events that might damage my holdings. And I broke my fair share of negative news about both companies. More broadly, I found that owning stock made me much more sensitive to news about the companies and what was going on inside them. It made my understanding of them much more acute. Obviously, my stake was not trivial in terms of my personal finances but nor was it large enough to change my life in any way. As a journalistic exercise I'd recommend reporters owning a small amount of disclosed stock simply so they can see how events make prices rise and fall, and to give them an incentive to stay educated on the companies they cover. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brian SnyderThis morning, federal authorities arrested Charlie Shrem, the CEO of BitInstant, and charged him with money laundering. Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss were major backers of the firm. And now they've emailed out the following statement: "When we invested in BitInstant in the fall of 2012, its management made a commitment to us that they would abide by all applicable laws - including money laundering laws - and we expected nothing less.  Although BitInstant is not named in today’s indictment of Charlie Shrem, we are obviously deeply concerned about his arrest.  We were passive investors in BitInstant and will do everything we can to help law enforcement officials. We fully support any and all governmental efforts to ensure that money laundering requirements are enforced, and look forward to clearer regulation being implemented on the purchase and sale of bitcoins." The twins are scheduled to kick off the two days' worth of Bitcoin hearings convened by the state of New York starting tomorrow.   FREE AppDownload
APInvestors may be preoccupied with the emerging market sell-off, but Washington is poised to shift attention back to the U.S. this week. "This week’s three big events (State of the Union, House GOP Strategy Retreat, and Bernanke Retirement) have the potential to determine the course of the remainder of the year in D.C. macro policy," Guggenheim's Chris Krueger wrote to clients. Krueger highlights the action:  Obama’s speech tomorrow night at 9 p.m. is likely to focus on income inequality and using executive branch tools to circumvent a gridlocked Congress. There will be three Republican lawmakers delivering responses to the President’s speech. House GOP Conference Chair Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) will deliver the official GOP response, Sen. Mike Lee (R-UT) will deliver the Tea Party response, and Sen. Ran Paul (R-KY) will deliver his own response. Three separate responses would suggest a lack of unity and cohesion among Washington Republicans as the "establishment"/Tea Party battle continues. Then the House GOP will leave for their retreat, where they will "debate their plans on immigration reform and the debt ceiling," Krueger notes. The week will likely end with the unveiling of the “ask” for the House GOP to raise the debt ceiling in late February. Predictably, President Obama and Congressional Democrats have refused any quid pro quo and describe the expected policy “ask” as a ransom. Queue the choreographed fiscal brinksmanship for February. On Wednesday, the FOMC will release its policy statement (Chairman Bernanke's last). "This FOMC meeting is not followed by a chairman's press conference or an update of economic projections so we expect the FOMC will stick to the new trajectory on asset purchases established last December," writes KBW's Brian Gardner. Plus: "The release of fourth quarter GDP on Thursday could also be market moving as could a congressional hearing on a new office within Treasury created under Dodd-Frank, which recently produced research on the asset management industry," he writes. So it's a very busy week in the U.S., and it looks like we can expect the never-ending debt battle to heat up once again. FREE AppDownload
**Editor's Note**  This is a transcript of an interview Turney Duff, the author of "The Buy Side", did for the Short List in the UK. Interview questions begin below in italics, with Duff's responses in regular type. ---------- A trader told me: ‘Nobody gives a sh-- about your education/GPA/resume. To get a job on Wall St you need to know someone who already works there, and be able to handle numbers’. Is that true? There’s a lot of truth to that statement. And even more so when you get a job. Once you’re in the only thing people care about is the bottom line: Performance. If you didn’t go to a target school getting into Wall Street is like breaking into a house. The front door is locked so you have to try every window and door until you can break in. A young aspiring kid once asked me “what’s the best way to get a trading job at Goldman Sachs?” My reply “Build a time machine and go back and convince your grandfather to work there.” What’s the go-to restaurant/bar for Wall St traders? Bloomberg talks about Smith and Wollensky’s – is that tourist bulls---? Or do the top-earning traders actually hang out there? Not to be rude, but I would rather sit in the bleachers in 100 degree heat at a NY METS game in the 7th inning when they stop selling beer than go to Smith and Wollensky’s. If you’re looking for Wall Street playgrounds that serves food you should go to HARLOW, NOBU 57 or The General. During your time, was there a ‘Dorsia’ equivalent? (You talk about Canal Room in the book… was that the place to be seen, or simply a place you liked?) The Canal Room was a great place to throw a party… But the Dorsia equivalent in my day was Bungalow 8. I guess for a minute it was also Lotus and Marquee. What’s the most extravagant party you threw at The White House?  The foot massage party was pretty insane, but I think the most extravagant one was the bring an intern after work party because they had no idea what was behind door #3… Some interns after that became members for life… Is there one Wall St party that has become legendary? (i.e. one that traders acknowledge as the benchmark when it comes to hedonism.) The benchmark for the haves and have not’s is the Super Bowl weekend invite. Typically it’s a private jet with hired help, luxury hotel suites and parties at night. Things can get a little crazy…  In terms of pranks between traders, what’s the best one you ever heard about? There’s so many of them, but one of my favorites is when an intern or new employee is asked to find “the upticks” so they are sent by cabs and subways all over Manhattan trying to find them. So the trader on the floor will tell the intern “oh man, they just left but if you go up to XYZ Capital on 57th and Park they should have them… and so on and so on…  I feel bad about it now, but I once called a sales trader on their first day and said I needed to buy 1 million shares of T-W-A-T – I spelled out the letters so it didn’t sound like a word. So he stood up on trading floor with all of his new fellow employees and screamed for a market on 1mm T-W-A-T – it took him a few minutes to realize it wasn't a real symbol and it actually spelled a word. I’m going to hell aren’t I? The hazing/initiation ceremonies sound quite tame (getting a junior member of staff to pick up a $5000 tab). Does more extreme stuff go down? Or is it all myth? It’s more about verbal humiliation. Worse stuff probably goes on in fraternity basements all across the country.  You indulged in many hedonistic pursuits. Looking back, what’s the dumbest thing you spent money on? I was on a quest to have the most comfortable bed in Manhattan for obvious reasons… I went to ABC Carpet and told the sales woman what I wanted. I really wasn’t impressed, but after prodding a little bit they finally let me into a secret backroom for linens and such. So I brought my items to the register and handed over my credit card. When I saw the total bill was $10,000 for a duvet cover, pillows and sheets I was ill, but it was too late to back out. Wall St has it’s own language (‘f-you money’, ‘elephant hunting’) – what was your favourite bit of Wall St slang? My favorite bit about Wall Street language is making fun of it. When guys and girls are so enthralled with their trader talk they start to use it in everyday life… It doesn’t work. Here is an excerpt from my book… He is coming dangerously close to becoming “Johnny Wall Street.” Randy and I have names for guys like this. We just say J Wall for short; he’s the guy who wears button down shirts un-tucked over his khakis. In the office he tells you to protect him on the lunch print as if he was asking to be protected on a block trade of a million shares. Johnny Wall says he’s a size buyer when he sees a hot chick. He tells you at Happy Hour how he whacked a bid and sold another 250,000 shares behind it. At dinner he brings up commissions and research. He asks you what your favorite stock ideas are as you put a slice of buffalo mozzarella in your mouth. He doesn’t own any stocks; he just wants to impress. Johnny is the last one to show up at your high school reunion driving his new car and checking his Rolex. Johnny Wall is a douche. Bizarrely, given the insane amounts of money that traders are responsible for, I’ve heard a lot of them are extremely superstitious. Did you have any superstitions? Superstitious or Super-vicious? No, no superstitions… If there a particular tailor’s shop where you’ll find all the top Wall St guys having their suits made? No not really. Occasionally you’ll see a guy sneak in the side door and take a few quick measurements, but there isn’t a go to place. You were in Wall St around the time of the second dot-com bubble – did the relaxed dot-com vibe change Wall St’s suit-and-tie culture? It changed here and there, but it wasn’t industry wide. You can learn a lot about your peers on casual Fridays… Black jeans and turtlenecks say so much…  Privately, did Wall St traders ever say to each other: ‘Yeah, the valuations on these dot-com companies are complete bullsh--'?  Sure – people said it all the time, but it wasn’t bulls--- until they were right. Someone much smarter than me once said… Being early and wrong are the same thing… FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Alexander DemianchukThe Sochi Winter Olympics, due to start Feb. 7, are already the most expensive Olympics ever. Their estimated cost, at a cool $51 billion, is even more than Beijing's enormous 2008 Olympics, previously the most expensive ever, and almost three times the cost of the next most expensive winter games, which were held in 1998 in Nagano, Japan. The original budget was just $12 billion, so how did the Sochi games get so expensive? Well, one of the most prevalent theories is also one of the most simple — huge, widespread, systemic corruption. One prominent report from Russian opposition figures said that $30 billion in funds were stolen from the games, but by whom and how? Today, the most exhaustive account of the alleged corruption has appeared — in a handy, easy-to-use, translated-to-English map, which you can check out here. FBK.Info The map has been published by the Anti-Corruption Foundation, a group founded by well-known opposition figure Alexei Navalny. Navalny, a 37-year-old lawyer and activist, has been one of the most prominent figures in the opposition movement that sprang up after the disputed 2011 Duma elections, and has earned himself the ire of the Russian state before. Nalavny has focused on Russian corruption in the past — his popular LiveJournal blog largely works as a way of revealing official corruption, and it's been effective, forcing some key members of the Russian elite to resign just last year. This time, his team of 23 people spent months going through documentation to find out where all of the money actually went. What's really interesting about his Sochi project, however, is just how easy it is to use. While Navalny told the Huffington Post that his investigation hasn't turned up that much that wasn't already known, having it all together in one place really makes the scale of the alleged corruption striking. For example, the main Olympic stadium is reportedly 14 times over its original budget, and 2.5 times more expensive than other similar stadiums: sochi.fbk.info Then there's the enormous cost of the now-notorious road linking Sochi with the snow-based events, which take place 30 miles away in the mountains. The project was run by a friend of Putin's, with final costs of $8.7 billion — roughly in line with the entire budget for the 2010 Vancouver Games. sochi.fbk.info Other reports of overspending include a $15 million helicopter for the local governor, a speed-skating arena seven times over budget, and the award of $2.5 million worth of contracts to Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev’s ski instructor. It may well make for a depressing read for Russians, though they had likely heard about a lot of the stories before (Michael Weiss of the Daily Beast cites one poll that found two-thirds of the country believe funds for the Olympics were misused or stolen). There is one small, tiny ray of light, however — Navalny's research found that the actual cost of the Olympics was around $45.8 billion, a minor improvement on that $51 billion estimate. Click here to see the interactive version of the map. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Adam HungerThe big news of today is that Charlie Shrem, the CEO of BitInstant was arrested at JFK airport and charged with money laundering. At least one person calls Shrem, 24, "the face of Bitcoin." He was one of the subjects featured in a Businesweek piece on Bitcoin millionaires, and served as a vice chairman at the Bitcoin foundation.  But BitInstant was a curious business. It allowed users to mysteriously purchase Bitcoins at mega retailers like Walmart and Duane Reade, though it was never really made clear how this was done. Still, it was apparently possible to do this at a total of 700,000 stores, and BitInstant was regularly listed as a cornerstone of Bitcoin e-commerce. That was good enough for the Winklevoss twins, who led a $1.5 million round of seed funding in BitInstant this past spring. This is why tomorrow could be rather awkward for the pair, who are scheduled to headline two-days worth of hearings the New York State Department of Financial Services is holding on digital currencies. The hearings are more of a fact-finding mission to figure out whether Bitcoin is prone to criminal cases exactly like this one.  The brothers have not responded to requests for comment.   FREE AppDownload
Linette Lopez / Business InsiderMaking your own liquor can be dangerous (not to mention illegal). But we're in something of a craft distilling renaissance these days, and people really want to make their own booze. For gin enthusiasts, now you can. We sampled the HomeMade Gin Kit, which provides juniper berries, botanicals, and the necessary flasks and funnels to make it all possible. All you need is 36 hours and a bottle of vodka (not included). Our verdict: Gin lovers might find this gin different from what they're used to. Given the strong botanical flavor, mixologists might be wiser to make a cocktail out of it rather than a classic G&amp;T. But for $50, it still makes for a fun novelty gift. You can read more about the HomeMade Gin Kit here. FREE AppDownload
Google Street View Authorities were on the scene Monday afternoon after reports of an explosion in the lobby of 88 Lexington Avenue in Manhattan, New York, ABC 7 reports. Police are now saying that the situation was caused by handtruck tire bursting, according to CBS New York. Reports of an emergency at 88 Lexington Ave, #Manhattan, were unfounded. NBC New York originally reported that officials were saying there may have been a "small explosion" in the lobby, but that there are no immediate reports of injuries. There was also no visible damage to the outside of the building, though at one point there were about a dozen emergency vehicles parked outside. FREE AppDownload
Apple reports earnings Monday afternoon when the market closes. We'll have live coverage of the earnings, with numbers, news, and analysis as soon as possible, so tune in!  Until then, here is what people are looking for from Apple. Unless otherwise noted, these are what buy-side investors want to see, according to Gene Munster, who polled 20 investors: Aside from the numbers, here's what else we're interested in: FREE AppDownload
That was fast. After opening higher, markets have fallen back into the red, with the S&amp;P down 0.84% and the NASDAQ falling 1.69%. After getting buoyed by solid earnings from Caterpillar, the Dow has finally succumbed and is now off 0.38%. European markets spent most of the day lower. London's FTSE closed down 1.7%, and Germany's DAX finished 0.46% lower. Gold has recovered somewhat after falling in early trading. Crude is down more than 1%. BI's Matt Boesler explained this morning why markets are spazzing out to emerging-market weaknesses.  Here's the chart from S&amp;P: Bloomberg FREE AppDownload
BitInstant CEO Charlie Shrem has been charged with money laundering. It's a blow to the Bitcoin community — Shrem is a vice chairman at the Bitcoin Foundation, and was listed as a speaker at a major Bitcoin conference in Miami this weekend. But it looks like the bust was directly related to the site's involvement in former illicit goods marketplace Silk Road, which the Feds really didn't like. Bitcoin prices aren't really moving much on the news. The Feds say BitInstant has been offline since July.  According to the criminal complaint, Shrem helped Robert Faiella, a 52-year-old Florida resident, process Bitcoin sales from customers on Silk Road who wanted to buy drugs. The scheme was allegedly a huge part of BitInstant's revenue stream. "Faiella obtained Bitcoins with the company's assistance, and then sold them to Silk Road users at a mark-up," it says. The complaint alleges Shrem himself bought drugs on the site. Here's the key part:  Justice Here's the full complaint: Faiella, Robert M. and Charlie Shrem Complaint  FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
This morning, new home sales dropped 7.1% month-over-month for December, much worse than analyst expectations for a 1.9% fall. According to Capital Economics' Paul Diggle, it's not as bad as first glance would suggest. This winter's bad weather impacted the report, Diggle wrote clients this morning. "The large decline in new home sales in December was probably driven by last month’s unseasonably severe winter weather," Diggle writes. "Sales activity in January is likely to be weak for similar reasons. But we continue to think that new home sales will stage an encouraging rise over 2014 as a whole." From Capital Economics: Looking ahead, we continue to be upbeat about the outlook for new home sales. Even after recent price increases, housing remains undervalued. And mortgage rates are very low in a historical context. Alongside the strengthening in the wider economy, that points to rising new home sales this year.  Not everyone is as enthusiastic though. Barclays' Michael Gapen writes that "the rebound in sales in Q4, albeit less robust than initially reported, suggests housing demand can digest reduced affordability, but the pace of the recovery in housing will likely slow due to stronger headwinds and less cyclical momentum." And here's Diggle's chart of annualized new home sales. Capital Economics FREE AppDownload
David Ogilvy & Associates RealtorsLast May, a Connecticut mansion went on the market for $190 million and became the most expensive home for sale in the U.S. Now, that price tag has been reduced to $130 million, meaning the property — Greenwich's Copper Beech Farm — no longer holds that title, according to Curbed (an estate in Dallas remains on the market for $135 million). The 50-acre property dates back to the 1890s, and is currently owned by timber magnate John Rudey. It carries a reported $120 million in debt, likely accounting for the sky-high initial sale price. The 12-bedroom home has 15,000 square feet of living space, 7,000 square feet of basement and attic space, and an 1,800-foot-long driveway. There's also a grass tennis court, innumerable gardens, apple orchard, greenhouses, 75-foot-long heated pool, and a carriage house. The estate is currently listed with Christie's International Real Estate and David Ogilvy &amp; Associates. FREE AppDownload
Economic meltdowns are hardly impossible in Argentina. The country has gone through a total unraveling before — at the end of 2001, it had five different presidents in two weeks when it defaulted on $132 billion of debt it could not pay.  So the question at hand right now is whether or not the economy is at that point again. According to Federico Zaldua, a bond trader at Argentine fund, SP, we're not at 2001 yet. But the year ahead promises pain for the entire country. "Best case scenario — let the peso float freely after salaries renegotiation end and fix ASAP the inflation statistics in order to get international credit at a fair price," said Zaldua, who manages $50 million worth of Argentinean government bonds. "Worst case scenario: Inflation up up and up, USD up up and up, nasty recession followed by elections." In past crises Doomsday came when Argentina's inflation soars, the peso's value dove head first against the dollar, politicians went in and out of power quickly, and there was chaos in streets and stores. The hope is that this time, the government is taking charge of the situation before it's beyond repair. Last week Argentina devalued its currency more than it has in 12 years, and the peso plunged 15%. Prices skyrocketed chaotically as the government placed the official official peso-to-dollar rate at 8 to 1, while the black market rate hit 13 pesos to the dollar. "I would expect very choppy bond yields during the next few weeks," said Zaldua. "Argentina already yields a lot for a country with a very low net debt-to-GDP ratio. The Government has opened a window to access the dollar but this window will not be very wide at least at 8 pesos per USD. We shall face an unstable market for a prolonged period of time. There is a sense the government does not have a clear plan." The plan, according to Zaldua, should include measures to deregulate and normalize the country's currency market, negotiate with Argentina's creditors — like The Paris Club, with whom the country entered into negotiations to pay off its $6.5 billion debt earlier this month — and curb inflation. "They know they need access to international capital markets and they know they have to do something. But their agenda does not look very clear," he said. "They will end up deregulating the currency market somewhat and approaching the Paris Club, Repsol (I expect a solution to this problem soon) and the IMF but they are afraid of inflation (salaries are being renegotiated soon) so I wouldn't expect a free currency market in the short term. Status quo is not an option any longer." On the currency market front, measures to ease restrictions on dollar-buying announced on Monday are hardly a revolution. It used to be that Argentinians could only apply to buy dollars if they were leaving the country for vacation, and even then the government would determine how much they could get. Now Argentinians making $900 a month or more can buy dollars, but the amount they can buy is tied to their salary. Either way, the maximum amount is $2,000. Moreover, unless they want to pay 20% tax, Argentinians have to keep those dollars in the bank for a year — they can't touch that money. This is meant to keep capital from leaving the country, as Argentina's Central Bank had about $30 billion in foreign currency reserves at the end of 2013. The timing of this economic chaos has coincided with odd times for Argentina's Presidency. At the end of last year, Cristina Fernandez underwent brain surgery. Until last week, she hadn't spoken in public for 40 days. Right now she's in Cuba for a conference leaving Cabinet Chief Jorge Capitanich and Economic Minister Hernan Lorenzino to handle the situation. "Kirchnerismo is over for good one way or the other," said Zaldua. He believes the next President will be far more business friendly, and according to a recent poll conducted by U.S. Investment Firm Graham Fisher and Argentine polling firm PoliarquíaConsultores, 34% of Argentinians think their international image would improve if Kirchner were gone. According to the same poll, inflation is one of the top three concerns shared by Argentinians, along with crime and the economy at large. "Inflation is destroying Cristina's popularity among all sectors but a very circumscribed sector," he said. Even before the government devalued the peso, independent statisticians put the country's inflation rate at 25%. The government came under fire from the IMF and other international bodies for denying that inflation had reached this level, and publishing its own, lower numbers. "...inflation statistics are the way they are because they are stubborn. There is NO rational explanation," said Zaldua. "At this point, telling the truth is all upside politically and economically. Argentina has the lowest debt-to-GDP ratio in its history, we have been going through a huge commodities boom so all the current problems are self induced." But at least the government is changing course (whatever that course may be). As leaders try to get the house in order, though, Zaldua sees peso rates going up 25% and inflation reaching 30%, but it's nothing Argentinians can't handle. They've seen panic mode before, and unless the government completely loses control, this isn't it. It's just a very dangerous time. "If you look beyond 2015, the outlook does not look grim. My sensation is, 'finally the government is seeing that something needs to be done,'" said Zaldua. "Yes it's dangerous because if they do not set expectations right, inflation will be much higher and a recession may occur with a political crisis that may end Cristina's government before its time comes due." That's a pretty big "if." FREE AppDownload
Associated PressPlenty of young people tried to wait out the recession in graduate school, and if they attended a top MBA program, that turned out to be a pretty good choice. Students who graduated from top b-schools in 2010 have seen their salaries double, according to The Financial Times. Of course, those students attended the top 100 MBA programs in the world, which represent a tiny subset (less than 1%) of all MBA degrees awarded. But it's an indication of the extraordinary earning power a top degree still affords. In its annual ranking of international business schools, in which Harvard comes out first and Stanford second, the FT also ranks schools by the average salary of their alumni three years after they graduate. Stanford may just miss in the overall rankings, but it places No. 1 in the money rankings, with an average salary of $182,054. Here are the 10 best programs for graduates' paychecks:  FREE AppDownload
The chart below captures one of the biggest themes driving markets lately: traders are scaling up bets that the Fed will have to hike rates sooner as improving economic data becomes increasingly at odds with the central bank's promise to keep short-term interest rates low (i.e., monetary policy accommodation maxed out) long into 2015. That's why investors are piling into short positions in futures and options on eurodollars (3-month dollar deposits held in banks outside the United States). Eurodollar contracts move inversely to yields, so these short positions will pay off if interest rates on those 3-month deposits are higher in the future than where the market currently prices them today. The release of Commitments of Traders data on Friday revealed that through the week ended last Tuesday, investors' collective short positions in eurodollars reached an all-time high. The chart goes a long way toward explaining the turmoil in global financial markets last week, which was exacerbated when many leveraged players covered short positions in the interest rates space, sending eurodollar contracts as well as U.S. Treasuries surging and yields plummeting. While many are quick to ascribe the global market sell-off — which hit U.S. stocks and emerging-market currencies, among other risk assets — to the prospect of further withdrawal of Federal Reserve liquidity from the markets as the central bank scales back its bond buying program, the opposite concern may have had a bigger effect. To be clear, the unwinding of leveraged positions as traders decided these outsized bets on earlier-than-expected rate hikes were getting overdone was a key feature of last week's turmoil, and it suggests that positioning became a bigger concern than the actual likely course of Fed policy itself. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg) FREE AppDownload
WikimediaThe CEO of BitInstant, a Bitcoin exchange, has been arrested at JFK airport and charged with money laundering. Charlie Shrem, along with a co-conspirator, is accused of selling over $1 million in bitcoins to Silk Road users, who would then use them to buy drugs and other illicit items. According to the criminal complaint, Shrem himself bought drugs on Silk Road. "Hiding behind their computers, both defendants are charged with knowingly contributing to and facilitating anonymous drug sales, earning substantial profits along the way," DEA agent James Hunt said in a release.  Shrem is a vice chairman at the Bitcoin Foundation. He is listed as a speaker at a Bitcoin conference in Miami that ended Sunday. Shrem is believed to own a substantial amount of bitcoins. BitInstant, which is backed by the Winklevoss twins, is currently offline. It was recently the subject of a class-action suit alleging misrepresentation of its services. The arrest comes on the eve of a two-day state hearing about the future of Bitcoin in New York. Here's the full release from the Justice Department. An embed of the full criminal complaint follows. Preet Bharara, the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York, James J. Hunt, the Acting Special-Agent-in-Charge of the New York Field Division of the Drug Enforcement Administration (“DEA”), and Toni Weirauch, the Special Agent-in-Charge of the New York Field Office of the Internal Revenue Service, Criminal Investigation (“IRS-CI”), announced the unsealing of criminal charges in Manhattan federal court against ROBERT M. FAIELLA, a/k/a “BTCKing,” an underground Bitcoin exchanger, and CHARLIE SHREM, the Chief Executive Officer and Compliance Officer of a Bitcoin exchange company, for engaging in a scheme to sell over $1 million in Bitcoins to users of “Silk Road,” the underground website that enabled its users to buy and sell illegal drugs anonymously and beyond the reach of law enforcement. Each defendant is charged with conspiring to commit money laundering, and operating an unlicensed money transmitting business. SHREM is also charged with willfully failing to file any suspicious activity report regarding FAIELLA’s illegal transactions through the Company, in violation of the Bank Secrecy Act. SCHREM was arrested yesterday at John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York, and is expected to be presented in Manhattan federal court later today before U.S. Magistrate Judge Henry Pitman. FAIELLA was arrested today at his residence in Cape Coral, Florida, and is expected to be presented in federal court in the Middle District of Florida. Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said: “As alleged, Robert Faiella and Charlie Shrem schemed to sell over $1 million in Bitcoins to criminals bent on trafficking narcotics on the dark web drug site, Silk Road. Truly innovative business models don’t need to resort to old-fashioned law-breaking, and when Bitcoins, like any traditional currency, are laundered and used to fuel criminal activity, law enforcement has no choice but to act. We will aggressively pursue those who would coopt new forms of currency for illicit purposes.” DEA Acting Special-Agent-in-Charge James J. Hunt said: “The charges announced today depict law enforcement's commitment to identifying those who promote the sale of illegal drugs throughout the world. Hiding behind their computers, both defendants are charged with knowingly contributing to and facilitating anonymous drug sales, earning substantial profits along the way. Drug law enforcement's job is to investigate and identify those who abet the illicit drug trade at all levels of production and distribution including those lining their own pockets by feigning ignorance of any wrong doing and turning a blind eye.” IRS Special-Agent-in-Charge Toni Weirauch said: “The government has been successful in swiftly identifying those responsible for the design and operation of the ‘Silk Road’ website, as well as those who helped ‘Silk Road’ customers conduct their illegal transactions by facilitating the conversion of their dollars into Bitcoins. This is yet another example of the New York Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Strike Force’s proficiency in applying financial investigative resources to the fight against illegal drugs.” According to the allegations contained in the Criminal Complaint unsealed today in Manhattan federal court: From about December 2011 to October 2013, FAIELLA ran an underground Bitcoin exchange on the Silk Road website, a website that served as a sprawling and anonymous black market bazaar where illegal drugs of virtually every variety were bought and sold regularly by the site’s users. Operating under the username “BTCKing,” FAIELLA sold Bitcoins – the only form of payment accepted on Silk Road – to users seeking to buy illegal drugs on the site. Upon receiving orders for Bitcoins from Silk Road users, he filled the orders through a company based in New York, New York (the “Company”). The Company was designed to enable customers to exchange cash for Bitcoins anonymously, that is, without providing any personal identifying information, and it charged a fee for its service. FAIELLA obtained Bitcoins with the Company’s assistance, and then sold the Bitcoins to Silk Road users at a markup. SHREM is the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, and from about August 2011 until about July 2013, when the Company ceased operating, he was also its Compliance Officer, in charge of ensuring the Company’s compliance with federal and other anti-money laundering (“AML”) laws. SHREM is also the Vice Chairman of a foundation dedicated to promoting the Bitcoin virtual currency system. SHREM, who personally bought drugs on Silk Road, was fully aware that Silk Road was a drug-trafficking website, and through his communications with FAIELLA, SHREM also knew that FAIELLA was operating a Bitcoin exchange service for Silk Road users. Nevertheless, SHREM knowingly facilitated FAIELLA’s business with the Company in order to maintain FAIELLA’s business as a lucrative source of Company revenue. SHREM knowingly allowed FAIELLA to use the Company’s services to buy Bitcoins for his Silk Road customers; personally processed FAIELLA’s orders; gave FAIELLA discounts on his high-volume transactions; failed to file a single suspicious activity report with the United States Treasury Department about FAIELLA’s illicit activity, as he was otherwise required to do in his role as the Company’s Compliance Officer; and deliberately helped FAIELLA circumvent the Company’s AML restrictions, even though it was SHREM’s job to enforce them and even though the Company had registered with the Treasury Department as a money services business. Working together, SHREM and FAIELLA exchanged over $1 million in cash for Bitcoins for the benefit of Silk Road users, so that the users could, in turn, make illegal purchases on Silk Road. In late 2012, when the Company stopped accepting cash payments, FAIELLA ceased doing business with the Company and temporarily shut down his illegal Bitcoin exchange service on Silk Road. FAIELLA resumed operating on Silk Road in April 2013 without the Company’s assistance, and continued to exchange tens of thousands of dollars a week in Bitcoins until the Silk Road website was shut down by law enforcement in October 2013. *                      *                      * FAIELLA, 52, of Cape Coral, Florida, and SHREM, 24, of New York, New York, are each charged with one count of conspiracy to commit money laundering, which carries a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison, and one count of operating an unlicensed money transmitting business, which carries a maximum sentence of five years in prison. SHREM is also charged with one count of willful failure to file a suspicious activity report, which carries a maximum sentence of five years in prison. Mr. Bharara praised the outstanding investigative work of the DEA’s New York Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Strike Force, which is comprised of agents and officers of the U. S. Drug Enforcement Administration, the New York City Police Department, Immigration and Customs Enforcement - Homeland Security Investigations, the New York State Police, the U. S. Internal Revenue Service Criminal Investigation Division, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, U.S. Secret Service, the U.S. Marshal Service, New York National Guard, Office of Foreign Assets Control and the New York Department of Taxation and Finance. Mr. Bharara also thanked the FBI’s New York Field Office. Mr. Bharara also noted that the investigation remains ongoing. The prosecution of this case is being handled by the Office’s Complex Frauds Unit. Assistant United States Attorney Serrin Turner is in charge of the prosecution, and Assistant United States Attorney Andrew Adams of the Asset Forfeiture Unit is in charge of the forfeiture aspects of the case. The charges contained in the Complaint are merely accusations, and the defendants are presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty. Here's the full complaint: Faiella, Robert M. and Charlie Shrem Complaint      FREE AppDownload
ReutersThe Turkish lira got a nice bounce today after the Central Bank of Turkey announced that it will hold an emergency meeting tomorrow. The expectations are that the central bank will announce a rate hike to stem the decline. The currency has taken a beating on a corruption scandal threatening prime minister Tayyip Erdogan and the ruling AKP party. "I think the central bank is desperate to stop the move lower, and realizes the inadequacy of its current interventions," Enis Taner macro editor at Risk Reversal and former trader at Goldman Sachs told Business Insider. "My guess is that it will be an emergency rate hike, though if it's not, and simply more talk rather than action, then the market could take it very badly.  If they do hike rates a couple percent on the upper band, then I think it will calm the currency in the near-term."  Dennis Gartman, publisher of The Gartman Letter, writes that any bounce in the lira will be temporary and that this will be an opportunity for "those long of the 'Emergers' to reduce their exposure." Turkey has, of course, in recent months, seen a rise in political instability.  A corruption probe launched in December, which led to the resignation of key cabinet members and MPs from the ruling party, has raised investor concerns. But Turkey's political sphere has been rocky since the demonstrations in Istanbul's Gezi Park last year, which  mushroomed into wider anti-government protests. More than just politics But it's more than just these domestic political problems weighing on the Turkish lira. There is of course the country's large current account deficit. "The rise in U.S. rates after the suggestion of tapering in mid-2013 put pressure on the lira (and other EM currencies) since Turkish rates had fallen to such low levels in the years leading up," Taner said.  "Moreover, the large current account deficit in Turkey and the political problems reflected in the Gezi park protests added fuel to the move." But there's also the fact that construction has helped drive Turkish economic growth over the past decade. But with higher interest rates, the yield on the 10-year is now above 11%, compared with 7.5% a year ago, financing construction projects and mortgages has increased, Taner pointed out. Where does that leave investors?  It's all about the time frame according to Enis who says he is optimistic on a 10-year time frame but is "quite cautious" in the next two years. He also expects a housing bust in 12-24 months. That being said, "there will be significant opportunities for those waiting patiently to invest in Turkey in the next couple years."  FREE AppDownload
Dallas FedThe headline index has now been positive for more than a year.The Dallas Fed's survey of manufacturing activity increased slightly to 3.8 from a revised 3.7. Consensus was for a reading of 3.5. The future company outlook climbed 9 points to 33.5, reaching its highest level in three years. A transportation equipment company official commented: "Our optimistic outlook is based on a major ramp up of our advertising and marketing expense. We increased our marketing budget by 40 percent for 2014 in order to break out of the malaise facing our business for the last five years, which have remained relatively flat. We have 47 employees, 17 of whom are direct labor. We are adding six to our direct labor workforce in anticipation of increased demand." The overall employment index climbed 1.2 points to 8.6. Full release »   Texas factory activity increased for the ninth month in a row in January, according to business executives responding to the Texas Manufacturing Outlook Survey. The production index, a key measure of state manufacturing conditions, edged up from 6 to 7.1, indicating output grew at a slightly stronger pace than in December. Other measures of current manufacturing activity also reflected a pickup in growth. The new orders index surged from 1.3 in December to 14.4 in January, reaching a seven-month high and suggesting a sharp rise in demand. The shipments index also rebounded strongly, rising from near zero to 9.2. Growth in capacity utilization held steady, with the index remaining at 8.2. Perceptions of broader business conditions continued to be optimistic in January. The general business activity index posted its eighth consecutive positive reading and was nearly unchanged at a reading of 3.8. Similarly, the company outlook index posted its eighth positive reading in a row and held steady at 15.9. Labor market indicators reflected increased hiring and longer workweeks. The January employment index edged up for a second month, rising to 8.6. Eighteen percent of firms reported net hiring compared with 10 percent reporting net layoffs. The hours worked index returned to positive territory, rising to 3.4 after dipping to -1.1 in December. Upward pressure on prices and wages continued in January. The raw materials price index fell to 26.8 but remained high relative to what it was most of last year. The finished goods price index rose to a four-month high of 11. Looking ahead, 43 percent of respondents anticipate further increases in raw materials prices over the next six months, while 41 percent expect higher finished goods prices. Compensation costs increased at about the same above-average pace this month as in December, with the wages and benefits index coming in at 21.6 after a reading of 22.2 last month. Expectations regarding future business conditions remained optimistic in January. The index of future general business activityedged down but posted a still-robust reading of 22.3. The index of future company outlook rose 9 points to 33.5, reaching its highest level in three years. Indexes for future manufacturing activity showed mixed movements but remained in solidly positive territory. The Dallas Fed conducts the Texas Manufacturing Outlook Survey monthly to obtain a timely assessment of the state’s factory activity. Data were collected Jan. 14–22, and 99 Texas manufacturers responded to the survey. Firms are asked whether output, employment, orders, prices and other indicators increased, decreased or remained unchanged over the previous month. Survey responses are used to calculate an index for each indicator. Each index is calculated by subtracting the percentage of respondents reporting a decrease from the percentage reporting an increase. When the share of firms reporting an increase exceeds the share reporting a decrease, the index will be greater than zero, suggesting the indicator has increased over the prior month. If the share of firms reporting a decrease exceeds the share reporting an increase, the index will be below zero, suggesting the indicator has decreased over the prior month. An index will be zero when the number of firms reporting an increase is equal to the number of firms reporting a decrease. Data have been seasonally adjusted as necessary. Next release: February 24, 2014   Here's what it's looked like lately: Econoday FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Stephen Lam Apple CEO Tim Cook.Apple reports earnings today, and most analysts are expecting a huge holiday quarter. However, there are two new factors that could cause Apple to miss on expectations, according to a report from analyst Brian White of Cantor Fitzgerald. First, Verizon reported weaker-than-expected smartphone activations for last quarter, which could mean not many people bought iPhones. The iPhone is the top-selling smartphone on Verizon. Then there's Samsung, which also had a disappointing quarter and reported lower-than-expected smartphone sales. Samsung is Apple's top competitor, so its sales could be an indicator for what happened to Apple last quarter. On the other hand, it's possible people chose iPhones over Samsung devices. FREE AppDownload
Today, as expected, Argentina's leaders announced new measures meant to ease restrictions on dollar buying in the country, Clarin reports.  Now, Argentines making at least $900 a month or more will be able to buy dollars once again. The amount you can take out will be tiered according to how much you make, with the maximum rate of dollar buying set at $2,000 a month. And they won't see that cash anywhere but on a bank balance sheet unless they want to pay a fee. Newly purchased dollars will be taxed at 20% per year unless they are kept on deposit in the country for at least a year — a major incentive to save, and an attempt by the government to prevent capital from leaving the country. Last week Argentina devalued its currency more than it has in 12 years, and the peso plunged 15%. Prices sky rocketed chaotically as the government placed the official official peso to dollar rate at 8 to 1, while the black market rate hit 13 pesos to the dollar. Since then, the government has said that it is coming up with a plan to ease the country's 25% inflation rate — 25% according to independant, non-government numbers — and deregulate its currency markets. Easing restrictions on dollar-buying is supposed to be part of that deregulation. Before these new measures, Argentines could only buy dollars in order to go on vacation. Anyone leaving the country had to apply to get those dollars by showing their earnings and their travel plan. The government would then decide how much money they should get. What the government determined would often be so low travelers had no choice but to go to the black market. Travelers will still go through that application process to get more dollars, and credit purchases made outside the country will remain taxed at 35%, said Cabinet Chief Jorge Capitanich. So this is a slight easing of restrictions, but it's hardly revolutionary. This new announcement was made in Cabinet Chief Jorge Capitanich's daily address. President Cristina Fernandez is currently at a meeting in Cuba. Capitanich also that the 8 peso to dollar government exchange rate is an "acceptable level." So are these new measures going to cut it? "Not at all," said Federico Zaldua, a bond trader at Argentine fund, SP. "It will take time to get where we need to be." The upside here is that at this rate, major capital flight and total 2001-style chaos unlikely. "Capital controls will ease but not much at 8 pesos per USD," says Zaldua. "The capital flight will be contained unless they really easy capital controls...The market just needs to operate freely and very sadly the price will be paid by those who earn a fixed salary." Sounds like this could go on for a while. FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg, BNP ParibasChart 1.Around the world, emerging markets are tumbling. Their currencies are getting slammed and equity markets are selling off. There are a combination of factors behind the sell-off, including the slowdown in China, unwinding of carry trades, domestic political issues, and monetary policy of the world's biggest central banks. But the escape from emerging markets (EM) has been brewing for a while. Investors have been shifting out of EM since mid-2013, when long-term interest rates began rising in the U.S. as the Federal Reserve primed the marketplace for a long-awaited reduction in monetary stimulus. Much of the inflows into EM assets in recent years were predicated on a search for yield in the absence of any in developed markets. But as U.S. interest rates have risen in recent months, there has been less and less of a justification to be invested in EM, and those flows have begun to reverse. Since the beginning of 2014, however, U.S. Treasury yields have reversed course from multi-year highs and have fallen swiftly. Yet EM currencies have continued to tumble, breaking the relationship with Treasury yields established in 2013, as Chart 1 shows. And while rising Treasury yields have proven to be a challenge for EM, falling yields in the past week or so have become even more toxic, given the environment in which that drop in yields has occurred. Disappointing manufacturing data out of China last week and grim headlines on developments in the country's shadow banking system were enough to spark the unwind of levered bets in the hedge fund community that had become too one-sided. One popular trade in this vein is shorting the yen against higher-yielding EM currencies. When market volatility picked up last week, fast money players started exiting these trades, which is why the sell-off in EM currencies has accelerated. Meanwhile, many of these EMs are dealing with country-specific issues of their own, even as their currencies come under pressure due to risk aversion. "The current period of market turmoil may have slower EM growth and the prospect of less accommodative Fed policy at its heart, but it has a lot of regional sub-drivers: China's shadow banking system, politics in Turkey, strikes in South Africa, more politics in Argentina, to name but a few," says Kit Juckes, a global strategist at Société Générale. "There are too many fires burning to expect them to all blow out simultaneously." China is perhaps the biggest concern in EM, given its importance as a commodity consumer. "This week's weakness in EM has much more to do with China than the Fed," says Dina Ahmad, a strategist at BNP Paribas. "A string of trust-product defaults and a much weaker-than-expected HSBC flash PMI reading have fuelled a resurgence of China-collapse fears." The country's systemic importance in emerging markets can't be understated, and is weighing on sentiment. "Currently China is the bulwark that stands between south/southeast Asia instability, and dramatic broadening of contagion encompassing the global economy," says Alan Ruskin, global head of G-10 FX strategy at Deutsche Bank. "China's share of global GDP is now four times what is was in 1997. If contagion stretches to China's credit cycle (not DB’s expectation for 2014), watch out — this would represent a huge escalation in contagion risk." The Turkish lira is capturing headlines as, in addition to external pressures, political crisis is sending it plummeting to all-time lows against the U.S. dollar almost every day. Today, the lira surged after the Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey announced that it would hold an emergency meeting at midnight Tuesday in Ankara. Last week, the CBRT passed on hiking interest rates at its regularly-scheduled policy meeting, and many believe this decision was influenced by political pressure. It's unclear what actions the central bank will take now, but George Magnus, former chief economist and current senior economic adviser to UBS, believes it will announce some form of capital controls. "It would be pretty unusual to have a meeting and a midnight statement where you were just going to announce a standard change in monetary policy," Magnus told Bloomberg News this morning. "The odd time does suggest, to me, something that's going to be much more market-sensitive in that it will affect the operation of markets, not just the cost of funding." South Africa is also at the forefront of the latest turmoil in EM. Last week, workers at the world's three largest platinum mines went on strike, marking the latest in an ongoing string of wage battles that have disrupted the South African economy over the last year. Platinum prices are surging as the rand declines. "The threat of major industrial action in the South African platinum industry has come to fruition with a strike at the world's top three producers having started last Thursday," says Robin Bhar, an analyst at Société Générale. "If the strike continues for a protracted period (of a month or more), refined PGM output will be hit as the pipeline is drawn down. The weakness of the rand means that South African producers are already receiving the highest rand platinum prices since mid-2008. At present rand weakness gives producers headroom to survive with lower dollar denominated prices, and, as the AMCU are doubtless arguing, in a position to settle at higher wages than would otherwise be possible." Treasury yields are rising again today as U.S. markets shrug off last week's turmoil. This may mark an end to the particular storm that gripped EM last week, but the asset class still has a bevy of longer-term issues to contend with going forward, as various developments across these markets amply illustrate. FREE AppDownload
BaiduThis Friday, the 31st of January, is the beginning of the Chinese New Year. Over in China, that means that we've entered into the period of the Chinese year named "Chunyun," the 40-day period around the holiday when people traditionally travel home or to see family. Basically, it's travel hell. It's estimated that some 3.62 billion trips will be made during Chunyun, which will last from around January 16 to February 24. During this period, the rail system becomes so bad that Beijing's major train station is known to locals as "busiest place on the planet," the BBC notes, while the road system becomes clogged with huge, horrible traffic jams (for a glimpse of what that looks like, check out these pictures from October, during the similarly bad Golden Week travel chaos). Baidu (often referred to as "China's Google"), is keeping track of all this congestion, using location data from Baidu Maps and other apps to show the most popular journeys being made. The company's map, which updates once every four hours, reveals a lot of trends in the trips being taken. You can check out the interactive version of the map here. It's a fun map to play around with, but right now the results are probably what you'd expect — Beijing is the most popular city to arrive at, and to leave. As the Wall Street Journal notes, most of the routes fit with popular economic migration patterns, from the huge coastal cities to inland regions.
Library of CongressJ.P. Morgan had nothing on today's richest Americans.One of the big topics of conversation at the World Economic Forum last week was the same one that the President of the United States will talk about in his State of the Union tomorrow: Inequality. Specifically, the fact that the richest 10% of Americans — and especially the richest 1% of Americans — are now capturing all of the income growth in the country, while the rest of America, some 300 million people, are treading water or losing ground. How bad has inequality gotten? Emmanuel Saez, UC BerkeleyThe share of income captured by the top 10% has just hit an all-time high.The richest 10% of Americans now take home a staggering 50% of all the income earned in the country, the highest level ever. This wealth gap exceeds the extremes reached in the brief "Gilded Age" portrayed in the The Great Gatsby that led to the Great Crash and Great Depression. The concern about inequality isn't just about fairness. It's about the health of the economy. The "90%" account for the vast majority of spending in the U.S. economy, so their stagnant incomes are hobbling the entire economy. The rich can keep on getting richer, but until some more money gets into the hands of the people who actually drive most consumer spending, the economy will continue to struggle. Anyway, the inequality issue is now front and center, which is encouraging. Even rich investors and executives are now talking about it. What is startling, though, is the way rich investors and executives are talking about it. Based on the conversations in Davos last week, most rich investors and executives correctly identify some of the causes of rising inequality — rapid technological advances replacing jobs, globalization (cheaper labor overseas), decline in education creating a "skills gap," etc.  What they don't do is talk about one easy way they can begin to fix the problem: Pay people more. Yes, that's right. Pay people more. Voluntarily share more of the value that successful companies create with the people who create it — the rank and file workers who dedicate their working lives to the company and its customers (and, in so doing, to increasing the wealth of the senior executives and investors who own the company). St. Louis Fed, Business InsiderProfits as a percent of the economy have hit an all-time high...One reason inequality is so bad right now, after all, is that the owners and senior managers of companies are hogging a greater percentage of the value the companies create for themselves than they ever have in history. Meanwhile, they are paying the lowest wages (as a percent of the economy) than they ever have in history. And yet, when they talk about inequality, rich executives and investors never mention this as a solution. Instead, they talk about the need for others to fix the education system. Or the need for the government to erect barriers to protect American companies against foreign competition (protectionism). Or the need to change tax policy or otherwise force income redistribution. When asked about the most simple and obvious solution to inequality, meanwhile — paying people more — most rich executives and investors assume you are joking ("What are you — a socialist?"). Or they argue, effectively, that there's a law of economics that forces them to pay their employees as little as possible. St. Louis Fed, Business InsiderWages as a percent of the economy are at an all-time low.Of course, there isn't a law of economics that forces companies to pay their employees as little as possible. The owners and senior managers of companies can pay their employees as much as they can afford to while still keeping their company financially healthy. All they have to do is be willing to share more of the company's profit with the folks who generate it, instead of keeping it all for themselves. The idea that there's a law of economics that you have to pay people as little as possible is just an excuse designed to make senior executives and investors feel better about taking almost all of the company's value for themselves. It's not a law. It's a choice — a selfish choice. So, it's encouraging that so many rich executives and investors are now talking about inequality. The next step will be helping them realize that they can do more than talk about it — that they can actually do something about it. All they have to do is stop being so selfish and share more of the value their companies create with the people who create it. SEE ALSO: We Need To Start Maximizing Value, Not Just Profit FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike BlakeNew home sales fell 7.1% month-over-month in December to an annualized pace of 414,000 units. This was worse than expectations for a 1.9% fall to an annualized rate of 455,000. The extreme cold weather is expected to have weighed on home sales and homebuilder stocks moved up on the release. The median sales price was $270,200, while the average sales price was $311,400. Meanwhile, the supply of new homes stood at 5 months at the current sales pace. This is up from 4.7 months in November. Meanwhile, last month's number's were revised down to reflect a 3.9% fall to an annualized pace of 445,000 units in November. This is down from the initial reading of a 2.1% fall to 464,000. New home sales averaged 469,000 in October and November, about 21% above the 388,000 average in the third quarter, Credit Suisse analysts pointed out in a note ahead of the data release. "We estimate they are due for some giveback in December." They expect new home sales could fall as much as 3% on the month to 450,000. New home prices have been rising and they aren't spending very long on the market. Housing starts continue to fall and the extreme cold are expected to be weighing on housing data. FREE AppDownload
The debate continues. Is Jordan Belfort — the 'Wolf of Wall Street' now immortalized in film — a reformed man out with a message, or is he a degenerate happily cashing in on his past misdeeds? Policy Mic's Vivian Giang has one take from Belfort's former head of security, detective Bo Dietl of Bo Dietl &amp; Associates. Dietl installed Belfort's home security, and was vigilant over the convicted fraudster's affairs during his darkest days — the days when Belfort was running scams and making millions in a drugged out haze during the 1990s. Dietl even played himself in 'The Wolf Of Wall Street' movie. So what's Dietl's take on his former client? Dietl thinks Belfort's remorse is "bulls**t", and that he's just trying to cash in with two books, a movie and a potential reality show. Meanwhile, Dietl points out that Belfort has only paid  $243,000 in restitution since 2007 and still owes $110.4 million to his victims.  From Policy Mic: "Just think about your life, having the greatest actors playing you ... having the Martin Scorsese directing it ... having a $100 million budget... He's like Robinhood now and he stole $200 million from grandma and grandpa .... he's a scumbag," Dietl said an interview at his office. Dietl goes on to say that the movie also glazed over a really important part of Belfort's life while he was running his firm, Stratton Oakmont — his relationship with the mob. Dietl was hired to make sure that Stratton Oakmont wasn't destroyed by these connections — kind of like the bar Tommy and Henry burned down in 'Goodfellas.' "He.. had the gangsters lurking...," Dietl told Policy Mic, "the wise guys from organized crimes ... he was making a lot of money," Dietl said. "When [these guys] see a lot of money ... well, you need some protection. [The gangsters] want to weasel their way in so [Belfort] called me up to weasel them out." Bloomberg Businessweek wrote about this in an article about the mob's relationship with Wall Street back in 1997: The Mob has also allegedly found its way into short-selling of chop stocks. According to traders and chop-house officials, Barry Gesser, a close friend of Stratton founder Jordan Belfort, has systematically shorted chop stocks. He has allegedly demanded cash from chop houses in return for not shorting the stocks, or has demanded cheap stock to cover his shorts, threatening to ''crush'' the stocks if he doesn't get his way. We wonder how that didn't make it into the movie... For the full interview from Giang, head to Policy Mic&gt;     FREE AppDownload
In general, Midwesterners don't like cities.  The default vision we like to have of ourselves is as stewards of America's pristine Heartland.  We have farms with corn and soybeans as far as the eye can see.  We have picturesque small towns anchored with historic town squares.  We don't do majestic landscapes; we have sublimely beautiful scenery that warms our souls even during the coldest days of our brutal winters.  You ever see any of the "Pure Michigan" ads?  What about "Hoosiers"?  That's the Midwest that most Midwesterners want you to believe in.But alas, we have to make money to enjoy the things we love about this place.  And more than 100 years ago the Midwest went whole hog into large scale industrialization, just as mechanization was putting an end to all the farming jobs that defined us.  To be sure, we did not create our cities for our enjoyment's sake; they were created for work.  And for the typical working stiff Midwesterner, that was fine -- as long as there were divisions and separations that kept undesirable elements away from them.  What were the undesirable elements?  Smelly factories.  Loud warehouses.  Traffic.  And newcomers. This is the fundamental social legacy of the Rust Belt.A fascinating study came out this week that examined intergenerational mobility in the United States (a less technical and more user-friendly explanation of the study can be found here).  The project's researchers sought to determine the ability of children born into a lower income quintile to move to a higher income quintile as an adult, and explore the factors that affected the movement.  First, they found that, at least on the national level, intergenerational mobility has been stable for at least the last 40 years.  However, they found wide variability between places.  Using Commuting Zones (a geographical aggregation larger than metro areas that includes a metro area's surrounding rural areas) as the study's basis, the researchers found the highest levels of upward mobility on the East and West coasts, and the lowest levels in the South and Midwest.  Nine of the top 10 areas for upward mobility were on the coasts; all of the bottom 10 were in the South or Midwest.Funny thing, though.  Most of the reactions I've come across focus on the stability of social mobility over time.  Matthew Yglesias says America's a low-mobility country and has been for decades.  Jim Tankersley of the Washington Post agrees: "Children growing up in America today are just as likely — no more, no less — to climb the economic ladder as children born more than a half-century ago, a team of economists reported Thursday."  That sentiment seems to echo throughout the mainstream media (the absolute first time I've ever used that phrase).They seem to be saying that despite all our efforts, we are who we are.But I think we have to dig a little deeper.  Running through a series of statistical analyses, the researchers found this: Hmm.  I guess the converse of that is low mobility areas have more residential segregation, more income inequality, worse schools, less social capital and worse family stability.  And then there's this: We begin by showing that upward income mobility is significantly lower in areas with larger African-American populations. However, white individuals in areas with large African-American populations also have lower rates of upward mobility, implying that racial shares matter at the community (rather than individual) level. One mechanism for such a community-level effect of race is segregation. Areas with larger black populations tend to be more segregated by income and race, which could affect both white and black low-income individuals adversely. Indeed, we find a strong negative correlation between standard measures of racial and income segregation and upward mobility. Moreover, we also find that upward mobility is higher in cities with less sprawl, as measured by commute times to work. These findings lead us to identify segregation as the first of five broad factors that are strongly correlated with mobility. Indeed, I think Emily Badger has it right when she says this: We should be worried not that a child in Atlanta has worse prospects in 2014 than a child in Atlanta in 1970. We should be worried that this same child today has worse prospects than children growing up right now in Salt Lake City (or Sweden). No one lives in "America" in its entirety.  If we want to say we're OK because little has changed over the last 40-50 years, we're deluding ourselves.  We live in the Northeast, Midwest, South or West.  We live in Boston, Indianapolis, Charlotte or Phoenix.  We live in Rittenhouse Square, Palmer Woods, Buckhead or Malibu.  And we also live in Clinton Hill, Brightmoor, Liberty City and East Oakland.  The amount of variation changes as you scale downward to micro levels. And that's no accident. Mobility and inequality are not the same thing.  The ability to move up hasn't changed for decades but the game has changed nonetheless.  The concentration of wealth at higher levels has been well documented for decades. This is not an economic problem, this is a social problem. Without question, metro areas without a legacy of segregation fare better than those that do.  And even those that fare well in this analysis but do have a history of segregation, like a Washington, DC or Houston, have strong enough economies to ignore segregation's impacts on mobility.  Levels of social mobility are products of social construction, not economic. Like I said, Midwesterners don't like cities.  So we perfected the separation of uses, the race-neutral policies that have race-specific consequences, the use of urban renewal, highways, public housing and other strategies to, well, not have to deal with those things we don't like.  Nationally, we're OK.  But the devil, as they say, is in the details. This article originally appeared at The Corner Side Yard.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
U.S. Flash PMI hit 56.6 in January, up from 55.7 in December. The "flash" reading — based on 85% of monthly replies — is the highest print since September 2013. A reading above 50 indicates an improvement on the prior month. From Markit's Chris Williamson: US service providers reported a busy January, providing an important signal that that the economy remains in good health at the start of the year. Growth of business activity picked up from the already-robust pace seen in December, and optimism about prospects for the year ahead rose to one of the highest levels we’ve seen since the financial crisis. The flash manufacturing and services PMI surveys collectively suggest that the economy grew in the final quarter of last year at a rate of around 3.5%, and that the pace will have accelerated at the start of the year. The PMIs also suggest that job creation continues to run at a rate of around 200,000 per month, meaning the non-farm payroll numbers should recover from December’s dip. "The robust signals from the two PMI surveys therefore suggest that the FOMC should be comfortable in sanctioning a further tapering of the Fed’s asset purchase programme at its January meeting," Williamson concluded. Markit FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed Yardeni's Blog The Chinese Lunar New Year starts on January 31. It is the Year of the Horse. For investors suffering in Chinese stocks, the pain makes it feel more like the Year of the Charley Horse. Many are wondering if this will be the year that China’s debt bubble bursts?It’s hard to believe that global financial markets were roiled late last week by the release of the latest HSBC Flash China M-PMI on Thursday morning. The report showed that the overall index dropped from 50.5 in December to 49.6 in January, a six-month low. The output component edged down from 51.4 to 51.3, but that's above 50. At the same time, Markit reported that the Eurozone’s flash M-PMI jumped to 53.9 during January, the highest reading since June 2011. Furthermore, the US flash M-PMI remained solidly above 50 at 53.7, though that was down from December’s 55.0.The outsized reaction to China’s weaker M-PMI reflects mounting concerns that decelerating growth in the country could lead to a financial crisis, which could then slam the brakes on growth. China’s forward profit margin is among the lowest in the world. I have data on it starting in 2004. It was 4.0% at its most recent cyclical peak during September 2009. In mid-January of this year, it was down to 3.5%. Slowing growth with such a low margin could squeeze corporate borrowers' ability to service their debts, creating problems for their lenders. That’s especially true for those companies that are borrowing from the shadow banking system.On Friday, January 17, Chinese state media reported that China Credit Trust Co. warned investors that they may not be repaid when one of its wealth management products (WMP) matures on January 31, the first day of the Year of the Horse. The Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, the world’s largest bank by assets, sold the investment to its customers, and warned that it will not compensate investors for their losses.The trust company loaned the proceeds of almost half a billion dollars to a coal company, which must have been charged more than 10% since that was the annual return promised to investors. There has never been a default of a WMP. Until now, perhaps. On Friday, Bloomberg reported that the China Banking Regulatory Commission ordered its regional offices to increase scrutiny of credit risks in the coal-mining industry and to closely monitor risks from WMPs, which are estimated to total $1.7 trillion.Today's Morning Briefing: Something To Fear? (1) Nothing to fear but emerging economies and deflation. (2) Brewing since last spring. (3) More downside risk to the upside scenario. (4) Some EMs were up last week. (5) From most to least overbought sectors. (6) Finding support. (7) A cap on valuations. (8) Four challenges for EMs. (9) China’s Charley Horse. (10) China’s WMPs set to implode? (11) What will the Fed do? (12) “The Invisible Woman” (+). (More for subscribers.) Dr. Ed's Blog FREE AppDownload
A painful decline to slower and slower growth is the best case scenario for China, says  Michael Pettis, professor at Pe- king University’s Guanghua School of Management. Forget about a soft landing — even with the implementation of key economic reforms, China is in for a 'long landing' if it's able to rebalance its economy. This isn't the most settling idea — Emerging markets have been in turmoil since the beginning of the year, and part of that is because of signs of slowing growth in China.  Last week, Q4 GDP number came in at 7.7%. That's a slow down from the same quarter the year before when the number came in at 7.8%. During the World Economic Forum in Davos, Ray Dalio, the founder of the largest hedge fund in the world, said China's economy was a bubble. Naturally, things would get ugly if it burst. That's the worst case scenario.  Pettis is saying the best case scenario isn't great either. In a recent Bloomberg Brief debate with Cornell Professor Eswar Prasad, Pettis says that Xi Jinping and his government are likely well aware of that.   The reforms they planned during the country's Third Plenum economic reform meeting are meant to stabilize China's banking system, and make significant strides toward making China's economy based on consumption, rather than outside investment. Pettis says that those reforms will ensure that GDP growth slows, since a significant portions of the GDP growth we've been seeing, was based on China's investment-based economic model. Pettis writes: These reforms, and others – like attempts to protect the environment – will ensure that even as China’s real eco- nomic productivity improves, its GDP growth numbers will drop as the reforms are implemented. For now, most com- mentators argue that by increasing productivity, real reform will ensure a soft landing of GDP growth rates of 7 to 8 percent during the rest of President Xi Jinping’s administra- tion. A growing minority worries, however, that rapidly rising debt will force China into a hard landing. Although rising debt increases the probability of a hard landing, for now I expect neither outcome. More likely, I be- lieve, is a “long landing,” during which growth rates will drop by roughly one to two percentage points every year for the rest of this decade. Implementing reforms will protect China from a hard landing. It will however force much lower, albeit healthier, growth rates.  Prasad counters this by saying that reforms will generate a new economic prosperity all their own, and "will improve the allocation of resources, push up productivity, and make growth more balanced. Taken together," Prasad continues, "they will allow China’s economy to continue growing at 6 to 7 percent for the next few years." Of course, the government has to take on entrenched vested interests on first, in order to ensure that these policies are implemented correctly. He's talking about everything from big financial institutions that rely on the Central Bank's capital injections, state owned corporations that want to hold on to their pieces of the market pie, and local/regional governments.  Execution — sometimes that's the hardest part. Pettis agrees with that. For China to implement its policies these interests will have to take a back seat, but that's just the thing — to do what must be done in China, many of the bases of its current economic model must be undone. That, Pettis argues, will take a big toll on growth in the event that the Chinese government can execute. The proposed reforms will certainly unleash greater pro- ductivity, but they will also eliminate the mechanisms that had previously turbo-charged economic activity and which showed up in the form of higher reported GDP growth rates. They will cause a sharp deceleration in economic activity even though growth will be more productive than in the past. The fact that growth rates have dropped by almost a third even before the reforms were implemented suggests to me just how much further they must drop.  If you accept this notion, then you may as well accept that this 'long landing' has already started happening over the last couple of years. And that  we're already seeing it in the minimal reforms China has implemented over the past three years has already lobbed three percentage points off its GDP growth. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Stefan Wermuth Pedestrian walk past houses in London October 7, 2013.Swaths of the capital risk becoming “ghost towns” because overseas investors buy properties and leave them vacant, according to the European boss of the world’s second largest estate agent London has become the property “safe haven of the world”, according to the European boss of the world’s second largest estate agent, though swaths of the capital risk becoming “ghost towns” because overseas investors buy properties and leave them vacant. Christian Ulbrich, European chief executive of Jones Lang LaSalle, said a “whole spectrum” of overseas investors, attracted by London’s status as the gateway to America and Asia, would push the average price of a London home above £500,000 next year. “London is not only the safe haven of the world, it is also developing into one of the hottest cities in the world,” Mr Ulbrich told The Daily Telegraph. “It’s a great mix of a very liveable city, a city that offers fantastic opportunities and a very safe place to invest.” He said turbulence in emerging markets such as Brazil had resulted in massive investment inflows into developed markets, particularly Europe. “Where does it go first? It’s London,” said Mr Ulbrich. “Unlike elsewhere, I haven’t come across anybody who has said to me: 'I won’t invest there’.” The Office for National Statistics says the average price of a UK home is £248,000, rising to £441,000 in London. Mr Ulbrich said he expected the upward price trend in London to continue, though he dismissed concerns that a combination of low interest rates and government schemes such as Help to Buy was creating a UK-wide bubble. However, he warned that demand for multi-million-pound homes had created “ghost towns” in some of the most affluent parts of London. “What I am concerned about in London is that a lot of high-end residential property is being sold to people who are not using it for themselves – and they’re not even renting it. It’s just vacant because it’s a safe haven for their money. When you walk by our offices in Mayfair in the evening, it’s just a dark and lonely place because there is no life in the street. This is a growing trend.” Mr Ulbrich said it was difficult to stop this practice as punitive measures such as a tax on vacant properties was unlikely to be an effective deterrent. "It is something local communities have to deal with, because it can develop an area into a wrong direction. "You have countries that put a tax on vacant properties - in Germany they do that. But that wont solve the problem in London because the people who buy a flat in Mayfair for £10m and leave it vacant wont be scared away by a tax of £10,000 or £20,000. It's not easy to find a solution." According to Jones Lang LaSalle’s City Momentum Index, London extended its position as Europe’s most dynamic major city over the past three months. It was second only to San Francisco in terms of short-term price rises.   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Joshua LottWASHINGTON (AP) — From the White House to the Vatican to the business elite in Davos, Switzerland, one issue keeps seizing the agenda: the growing gap between the very wealthy and everyone else. It's "the defining challenge of our time," says President Barack Obama, who will spotlight the issue in his State of the Union address Tuesday night. A Gallup poll finds two-thirds of Americans are unhappy with the nation's distribution of wealth. Experts say it may be slowing the economy. Why has the issue suddenly galvanized attention? Here are questions and answers about the wealth gap — what it is and why it matters. Q. Hasn't there always been a wide gulf between the richest people and the poorest? A. Yes. What's new is the widening gap between the wealthiest and everyone else. Three decades ago, Americans' income tended to grow at roughly similar rates, no matter how much you made. But since roughly 1980, income has grown most for the top earners. For the poorest 20 percent of families, it's dropped. Incomes for the highest-earning 1 percent of Americans soared 31 percent from 2009 through 2012, after adjusting for inflation, according to data compiled by Emmanuel Saez, an economist at University of California, Berkeley. For the rest of us, it inched up an average of 0.4 percent. In 17 of 22 developed countries, income disparity widened in the past two decades, according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. Q. So who are the top 1 percent in income? A. They're bankers, lawyers, hedge fund managers, founders of successful companies, entertainers, senior managers and others. One trend: Corporate executives, doctors, and farmers made up smaller shares of the top 1 percent in 2005 than in 1979. By contrast, the proportion of the wealthiest who work in the financial and real estate industries has doubled. The top 1 percent earned at least $394,000 in 2012. Through most of the post-World War II era, the top 1 percent earned about 10 percent of all income. By 2007, that figure had jumped to 23.5 percent, the most since 1928. As of 2012, it was 22.5 percent. Q. How has the middle class fared? A. Not well. Median household income peaked in 1999 at $56,080, adjusted for inflation. It fell to $51,017 by 2012. The percentage of American households with income within 50 percent of the median — one way of measuring the middle class — fell from 50 percent in 1970 to 42 percent in 2010. Q. Does it matter if some people are much richer than others? A. Most economists say some inequality is needed to reward hard work, talent and innovation. But a wealth gap that's too wide is usually unhealthy. It can slow economic growth, in part because richer Americans save more of their income than do others. Pay concentrated at the top is less likely to be spent. It can also trigger reckless borrowing. Before the 2008 financial crisis, middle class households struggled to keep up their spending even as their pay stagnated. To do so, they piled up debt. Swelling debt helped inflate the housing bubble and ignite the financial crisis. Experts note that the Great Depression and the Great Recession were both preceded by surging income gaps and heedless borrowing by middle class Americans. Q. Has it become harder for someone born poor to become rich? A. The evidence is mixed. Countries that have more equal income distributions, such as Sweden and other Scandinavian countries, tend to enjoy more social mobility. But a study released last week found that the United States isn't any less mobile than it was in the 1970s. A child born in the poorest 20 percent of families in 1986 had a 9 percent chance of reaching the top 20 percent as an adult, the study found — roughly the same odds as in 1971. Other research has shown that the United States isn't as socially mobile as once thought. In a study of 22 countries, economist Miles Corak of the University of Ottawa found that the United States ranked 15th in social mobility. Only Italy and the Britain among wealthy countries ranked lower. By some measures, children in the United States are as likely to inherit their parents' economic status as their height. Q. So why has income inequality worsened? A. There's no simple answer. Globalization has created "superstars" and concentrated pay among corporate executives, Wall Street traders, popular entertainers and other financial elite. At the same time, factory workers now compete with 3 billion people in China, India, eastern Europe and elsewhere who weren't working for multinational corporations 20 years ago. Many now make products for Apple, Intel, General Motors and others at low wages. This has depressed middle-class pay. And pay has risen much faster for college graduates than for high-school graduates. These trends have contributed to a "hollowed out" labor market, with more jobs at the higher and lower ends of the pay scale and fewer in the middle. Social factors contribute, too. Single-parent families are more likely to be poor than other families and less likely to ascend the income ladder. Finally, men and women with college degrees and high pay are more likely to marry each other and amplify income gaps. Q. Does wealth distribution follow a similar pattern? A. It's even more pronounced. A Pew Research Center study found that the wealthiest 7 percent of households grew 28 percent richer from 2009 through 2011. For the bottom 93 percent, collective wealth fell 4 percent. That's largely because wealthy households own far more stocks and other financial assets than others. By contrast, whatever wealth middle-class Americans have is mainly in their home equity. Since the Great Recession ended, stock-market averages have soared, setting records in 2013. Home values, though, remain far below their peaks reached in 2006. That divergence has benefited the richest and left others struggling. Q. Where do the 1 percent live? A. Investor Warren Buffett famously lives in Omaha, Neb. Les Wexner, whose fashion empire includes Victoria's Secret, is an Ohioan. But the wealthy mainly cluster around the largest cities. Of the 515 U.S. billionaires, 96 live around New York City, according to the intelligence firm Wealth-X. Los Angeles is home to 22, Chicago 21, San Francisco 20, Houston 14. Millionaires are more widely dispersed. Maryland has the highest concentration. Of all its households, 7.7 percent have $1 million or more in financial assets. New Jersey, Connecticut, Hawaii and Alaska have the next-highest concentrations, according to a report from Phoenix Marketing International. Q. Has the Obama administration made progress in narrowing the wealth gap? A. No. By most measures, it's worsened in the past seven years. President Barack Obama managed last year to restore higher tax rates on incomes above $398,350. And he's pushed other steps that might narrow the gap slightly, such as a higher minimum wage. But congressional Republicans have resisted most such measures. Q. Is everyone concerned about the wealth gap? A. Some conservative economists question much of the data. They note, for example, that Saez's figures don't include government benefits, such as Social Security or food stamps, or employer payments for health insurance, that benefit the less-than-rich. Yet the Congressional Budget Office did include government benefits and the effect of taxes in its own study and still found a sizable gap: For the top 1 percent, income jumped 275 percent, adjusted for inflation, from 1979 to 2007. For the middle 60 percent of Americans, it grew less than 40 percent. Q. So what do experts say is the best way to shrink the wealth gap? A. Most ideas break down along political lines. Liberal economists tend to support a higher minimum wage, greater access to pre-school and college education and more spending on roads, bridges and other infrastructure to help generate good-paying jobs. Most favor higher taxes on the wealthy to pay for such programs. Conservatives tend to back tax cuts, government deregulation and other steps they say will accelerate hiring and growth and raise living standards for everyone. They tend to focus on the need to advance income mobility. In a speech this month, Florida Republican Sen. Marco Rubio acknowledged the enormous pay disparity between a fast food company's cashier and its CEO. "The problem we face is not simply the gap in pay between them, but rather that too many of those cashiers are stuck in the same job for years on end," Rubio said. ___ AP Business Writers Paul Wiseman in Washington and Bernard Condon in New York contributed to this report. ___ Follow Chris Rugaber on Twitter at http://Twitter.com/ChrisRugaber Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Danish Siddiqui Karl Slym, managing director of Tata Motors, looks on during a news conference to announce their second quarter results in Mumbai November 8, 2013.BANGKOK/MUMBAI (Reuters) - Karl Slym, managing director of India's Tata Motors Ltd &lt;TAMO.NS&gt;, died after falling from a hotel room in Bangkok in what police said on Monday could be possible suicide. Slym, 51, had attended a board meeting of Tata Motors' Thailand unit in the Thai capital and was staying with his wife in a room on the 22nd floor of the Shangri-La hotel. Hotel staff found his body on Sunday on the fourth floor, which juts out above lower floors. "We didn't find any sign of a struggle," Police Lieutenant Somyot Boonyakaew, who is heading the investigation, told Reuters. "We found a window open. The window was very small so it was not possible that he would have slipped. He would have had to climb through the window to fall out because he was a big man. From my initial investigation we believe he jumped." The police found a three-page note, written in English, which they were translating into Thai. An autopsy on Slym's body was conducted on Monday, the police said, without giving any details. A spokeswoman for Tata Motors, India's biggest automaker, declined to comment on the possible cause of Slym's death. A company statement on Sunday said Slym had provided leadership in a challenging market environment. Slym was driving a turnaround in the company's domestic operations. Investors worried about potential delays to these plans sent shares in Tata Motors down as much as 6.7 percent on Monday in a broader market &lt;.BSESN&gt; that fell more than 2 percent. The stock ended 6 percent lower. "He had been given a sort of free hand. For another professional to step in and enjoy the same confidence, with this same management, is difficult, it will take time," said Deepesh Rathore, director of Emerging Markets Automotive Advisors, based in Gurgaon, India. Slym, a British national, was hired in 2012 to revive Tata's flagging sales and market share in India. Tata Motors is part of the sprawling software-to-steel Tata conglomerate. "His death comes at a time when the company seems to be close to turning the corner," said Anil Sharma, an analyst with researchers IHS Automotive. "It comes before his efforts bear fruit. We should be able to see the results in a year or two." Tata Motors recently introduced a new petrol engine for its passenger vehicles and was planning to launch a hatchback and compact sedan this year, the first all-new Tata-branded passenger vehicles since 2010. Slym led the automaker's operations in India and international markets including South Korea, Thailand and South Africa, but he did not look after the Jaguar and Land Rover (JLR) luxury unit that Tata Motors acquired in 2008. The Thai police said they were called to the Shangri-La hotel around 7:45 a.m. on Sunday after staff found Slym's body. They woke up Slym's wife, who looked shocked when she was told what had happened to her husband. The couple had been married for about 30 years and do not have any children. Friends described Slym as a jovial man who loved cricket and Indian films. He was also active on Twitter, often promoting Tata Motors products and avidly commenting on sports. On his Twitter profile, Slym described himself as a "Britisher who just cant stay away from India!! Crazy for most sports and loves to know what's going on everywhere!! And hearing from everyone!!" "He was quite an affable, chilled-out, cool guy ... He loved cricket and Bollywood like any Indian," said Hormazd Sorabjee, editor of Autocar India and a friend of Slym's. "From his point of view, at Tata Motors there was definitely light at the end of the tunnel," he said. Tata Motors had lost traction in the Indian passenger vehicle market as domestic and foreign rivals rolled out new models while it mostly tweaked existing models and offered heavy price discounts. The firm has not had a hit car at home since 1998. Sales of the Nano, the world's cheapest car which it unveiled in 2008, have been lacklustre. Before joining Tata Motors, Slym was executive vice president of SGMW Motors, China, a General Motors &lt;GM.N&gt; joint venture. Before that he had headed General Motors in India. (Additional reporting by Swati Pandey and Sumeet Chatterjee in MUMBAI and Panarat Thepgumpanat in BANGKOK; Editing by Tony Munroe and Miral Fahmy) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Brendan McDermidDave Lutz of Stifel, Nicolaus passes along his roundup of what traders are chatting about on this very busy morning. Good Morning!   US Futures are higher this AM – with the E-Minis tacking on 40bp, but Nasdaq lagging by 20bp despite AAPL being well bid into earnings tonight, as CSCO is off 2% (JPM), Solar companies are under pressure (Lower China projections), and there is some bloodletting in Biotech.    EU Markets have been steadily recovering from lows, as we remove some of the terrors from last week:  France was not downgraded, and the China Trust is not defaulting.   Interesting the EU fins are only off 70bp, as headlines from Germany suggest Capital Shortfalls in excess of $110B (The 2 main banks needing Capital, Credit Ag is off 1%, DB off 70bp).  Maybe headlines saying Draghi out saying ECB could expand QE by buying Bank Loans to consumers in a bid to revive lending helping sentiment. The DAX is nearing unchanged, as volume is quite heavy at 150% normal trends as Germany’s IFO highest in 2.5 years.   The FTSE whacked as AT&amp;T not buying VOD, and BG lost 13% (#s).   Over in Asia, the Nikkei lost 2.5%, but futures are marked up 1% right now – China lost 1% as heavy lock-ups expire this week.  The Sensex is getting smacked, with their Property and Financial Stocks off more than 4% into the RBI this week.   Aussie was closed for Holiday.Looking at EM - Indonesia was worst off, losing 2.4% as their Rupah eyeballs 5Y lows.  Thailand lost 2% as Japan cancels tourist junkets and more political angst accelerates.   Turkey lost1.5% as Lira on fresh lows – South Africa’s Rand hit as well.  “Ground Zero” last week was Argentina, and their FX looks stable for the 2nd straight session.   While we know about EM angst on Tapering this week – The collapse in US yields is a EM tailwind.The US 10YY is popping higher by 3bp as some level of risk-taking re-emerges into the Fed’s anticipated $10B taper this week (WSJ suggests it could be on hold if markets continue unraveling)  -  Many credit traders were eyeballing Bills that expire towards the end of Q1, as the “Debt Ceiling” approaches anew and rhetoric in DC gets sharper – Some bills were sold sharply last week, with yields leaping 7bp for paper expiring the Start of March.  I’m not seeing a big reversal there yet, and I wonder if this is a cause for some of the market angst.    The DXY has a bid, mostly against € as the Yen rests on session lows.   The stronger $ is a headwind for commodities, yet Copper and Gold rest near unchanged – Nat Gas is leaping another 2% (Polar Vortex 3 this week) – and WTI has a slight bid, with it’s discount to Brent evaporating to $10 this AM.    Today, we have New Home Sales (Dec) at 10, Dallas Fed at 10:30, a small POMO at 11, and Short Interest from the NYSE reported after the bell.  We also have the State of the Union tonightEarnings season continues with AAPL, FB and AMZN highlighting a full roster of quarterly reports. Apple, the largest tech company in the world, will report after markets close on Monday, Facebook is out Wednesday and Amazon on Thursday - Also on tap for next week are: CAT and X on Monday; F and PFE on Tuesday; DOW, HES and QCOM on Wednesday;  CB,  XOM, V and VIAB on Thursday; and MA on Friday FREE AppDownload
It's a wild day in Turkey. Earlier the Turkish lira was getting crushed. Now the lira is rallying against the dollar. The move comes as the Central Bank of Turkey announced that tomorrow it will hold an emergency session in order to stem the currency decline. XE.com FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Samrang PringProtesters clash with security guards as they attempt to break through to Freedom Park in central Phnom Penh January 26, 2014.Good morning. Here's what you need to know. — Emerging markets continue to come under pressure to begin the week, and it was a rough overnight session for Asian stocks as the Japanese Nikkei 225 tumbled 2.5% and the Hong Kong Hang Seng fell 2.1%. The FTSE 100 in London and the FTSE MIB in Italy are both down more than one percent as well to begin trading today. However, the dollar-yen exchange rate has stabilized and is up 0.3% from Friday's close, while S&amp;P 500 futures point to a positive open and Treasuries look set to open in the red. — The Turkish lira hit another new record low this morning of 2.388 against the U.S. dollar. Following a surprise announcement by the Central Bank of Turkey that it would hold an emergency meeting on Tuesday at midnight in Ankara, however, the dollar-lira exchange rate plummeted and is now negative on the day (i.e., the lira is strengthening in anticipation of a possible rate hike). The South African rand continues to weaken against the dollar as well ahead of a regularly-scheduled meeting of the South African Reserve Bank's board of directors on Wednesday. — Apple reports earnings for the quarter ended December 31 this afternoon after the closing bell. Analysts predict the maker of the iPhone will report earnings per share of $14.05, up from $13.81 in the same quarter a year earlier. — Caterpillar reports earnings today before the opening bell. The global construction and mining equipment giant is expected to report earnings of $1.28 per share for the quarter ended December 31, down from $1.91 in the same quarter a year earlier. — December U.S. new home sales data are due out at 10 AM ET. Economists predict sales fell 1.9% last month to 455,000 units at an annualized pace after dropping 2.1% to 464,000 units annualized in November. — The Dallas Fed's monthly survey of regional manufacturers, due out at 10:30 AM, is expected to show an improvement in business conditions over the last month. The report's headline index is expected to rise to 3.3 from 3.1. — Japan's trade deficit surged to a record 11.47 trillion yen ($112 billion) in 2013 from 6.94 trillion yen in 2012 as the yen depreciated against the dollar, causing prices of imported fuel to rise in yen terms. The deficit for the month of December was 1.30 trillion yen, larger than the 1.24 trillion yen expected by market economists. — The German Ifo Business Climate Index rose to 110.6 in January from December's 109.5 reading, besting estimates for a smaller advance to 110.0. The improvement in the headline number was driven by the "expectations" sub-index, which rose to 108.9 from 107.4. The "current assessment" sub-index was unchanged at 112.4. — The big focus this week is the January meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee, which concludes on Wednesday afternoon and is followed by the release of its decision on monetary policy. "If history is any guide, the Fed will focus on the domestic — not the international — environment," says Kit Juckes, a global strategist at Société Générale. "With Treasury yields down and the recent U.S. economic data encouraging, the FOMC will probably push ahead and reduce the pace of [bond] buying to $65 billion per month." — Larry Fink, CEO BlackRock, the largest U.S. equity asset manager, is sounding bearish on the stock market. "I hear way too much optimism now," Fink said over the weekend in Davos. "I think the experience of the marketplace this week is going to be indicative of this entire year. We are going to be in a world of much greater volatility." — COMMENTARY: "The credibility of the Federal Reserve’s current guidance will evolve in 2014 into a major issue for investors, even though the market-implied path of the Fed Funds rate remains near the Fed’s projections. We believe that increased focus on inflation will be crucial for Fed credibility in 2014. Indeed, the most recent Fed statement increased the emphasis on inflation data (turning away from the previously paramount 6.5% unemployment threshold). "A detailed top-down and bottom-up survey of U.S. inflation is currently flagging the risk that higher (but not high) inflation emerges in 2014. If this occurs, the markets will gain another reason to periodically question forward guidance. Global growth momentum might slow in the months ahead, but if it were to stabilize this summer, at a time when inflation was higher, the unemployment rate was near 6.5%, and financial flows into risky assets had continued, this could trigger a collapse of forward guidance credibility."—Credit Suisse strategists James Sweeney, Carl Lantz, and Jeremy Schwartz FREE AppDownload
APWASHINGTON (Reuters) - President Barack Obama will lay out an agenda on jobs, the economy and the environment during his State of the Union speech on Tuesday. But he is unlikely to mention the Keystone XL oil pipeline, a politically charged project that could shape his legacy in each area. Some five years after Keystone XL was proposed, Canadian officials, Republicans and some Democrats in conservative U.S. states are expressing frustration over the lack of a decision by the White House on the initiative. The TransCanada Corp project involves construction of a 1,179-mile (1,900-km) pipeline from Alberta, Canada, to Steele City, Nebraska, where it would connect with a previously approved line. That would create a system that could move more than 800,000 barrels of crude from Alberta's oil sands to refineries on the U.S. Gulf Coast each day. Supporters say Keystone XL would create thousands of jobs and cut U.S. fuel costs by reducing the nation's reliance on oil imports from nations that are less friendly than Canada. They also point to U.S. government reports about the dangers of moving crude oil by rail as an alternative to the pipeline. Critics of the pipeline plan say it would harm the environment and hasten climate change by promoting oil-harvesting methods in Alberta that produce high levels of carbon dioxide emissions. The project is in limbo while the U.S. State Department finalizes an environmental review, a long-delayed process that has irked allies in Ottawa and advocates on both sides of the issue in the United States. Behind the scenes, a complex political calculus is at play on everything from the timing of the decision to the outcome. REUTERSFor Obama, a decision in favor of the pipeline could undermine the Democratic president's environmental credentials and anger activists who have supported him just as his administration is writing new rules to reduce heat-trapping carbon dioxide emissions from power plants. A decision against the pipeline could undercut Obama's pledge to boost employment and U.S. energy security while alienating an important international ally and oil supplier. No matter what Obama decides, an announcement before the midterm congressional elections in November - which many observers expect - could make Keystone a big issue in the races that will determine control of the U.S. Congress. The Keystone project is a particularly sensitive subject for several Democratic senators from politically divided states who support the pipeline, are under pressure from Republican critics who back the project, and are frustrated with what they see as the administration's reluctance to decide the matter. Democratic Senators Mark Begich of Alaska, Mary Landrieu of Louisiana and Kay Hagan of North Carolina are prominent Keystone backers and have supported past Republican-led efforts to circumvent Obama on the decision. For Obama, the political calculus on Keystone extends well beyond the issue of the pipeline itself. As he enters his sixth year in office, Obama has become increasingly focused on building his legacy as a "progressive" president. The cornerstone of that legacy is Obama's health care overhaul, which continues to face attacks from Republicans. But Obama also wants to have an enduring impact on the nation's efforts to counter climate change. "The president doesn't have to run for election ever again, increasingly he's going to be thinking about his legacy," said Michael Brune, executive director of the Sierra Club, an environmental group. "It's clear that one of the most important ways that he will be judged is what actions has he taken on climate change." Environmentalists and young people - key segments of the Democratic Party's political base - have worked for years to block the Keystone pipeline plan because of what they see as the project's potential to increase climate-warming emissions. Obama needs support from that base for other second-term initiatives such as immigration reform, and a potential Democratic successor such as former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton would need it to gain traction in the 2016 election. "The president wants to make sure his legacy on climate is solid," a former administration official told Reuters. "The degree to which this decision impacts the way he's viewed by the progressive community, that's certainly something they need to weigh." So when will Obama make the call? "You have to make a basic decision to answer that question, and that is: How political will the timeline be?" said Jason Grumet, a former energy adviser to Obama's 2008 campaign and now president of the Bipartisan Policy Center. A decision by summer would give the issue legs in the 2014 congressional campaigns. A decision after the November midterms would thrust it into the beginning of the primary season for the 2016 presidential race. Administration officials say the timeline is being determined by the State Department, which has a say in the matter because the proposed pipeline would cross the U.S.-Canada border. On January 17, Secretary of State John Kerry said he hoped an analysis of the thousands of public comments on the project's environmental impact would be done "soon." The American Petroleum Institute, the oil industry's top lobbying group and a big Keystone backer, said it expects the State Department's report to come out as early as Thursday. "It's our expectation it will be released next week," the group's chief executive, Jack Gerard, said last week during an interview, citing sources within the administration. "We're expecting to hear the same conclusion that we've heard four times before: no significant impact on the environment," Gerard said. The report will be critical in determining how the Keystone process plays out this year. "If the analysis suggests that there are not substantial increases in carbon emissions, then it's not a tough call. If the analysis suggests that there are significant increases, it tilts the other way," Grumet said. Sources inside and outside the administration said they did not expect Obama to discuss the project in his Tuesday speech. "We have no expectation he'll find the courage to address it on Tuesday. That doesn't mean we won't keep talking about it," said Brendan Buck, spokesman for John Boehner, the Republican speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives. All 45 Republican U.S. senators urged Obama on Friday to end the delays and noted in a letter that he had told them in March that a decision would be made before the end of 2013. "We are well into 2014 and you still have not made a decision," they said. A senior administration official said the president viewed the issue as one that had become disproportionately symbolic and super-charged for both sides. He does not believe it is the job creator that its backers suggest or the environmental nemesis that its objectors fear, the official said. In June, while announcing a plan to cut U.S. carbon emissions, Obama brought up the pipeline unexpectedly and used words that both sides claimed backed up their arguments. "Our national interest will be served only if this project does not significantly exacerbate the problem of carbon pollution," he said then. "The net effects of the pipeline's impact on our climate will be absolutely critical to determining whether this project is allowed to go forward." When Obama makes a decision on Keystone XL, Chief of Staff Denis McDonough and Kerry are likely to be his top confidants. John Podesta, a former chief of staff to President Bill Clinton and a Keystone critic who recently returned to the White House as a counselor to Obama, has recused himself from the process. (Editing by David Lindsey and Marguerita Choy) FREE AppDownload
LaurPhil via www.flickr.com creative commons(Reuters) - The U.S. justice department is exploring civil and criminal actions against more than 50 big and small banks that conduct business with payday lenders, who are being increasingly scrutinized by regulators, the New York Times reported, citing government officials. Under a new program, "Operation Choke Point," the department is checking banks over whether they enabled payday lenders to illegally siphon billions of dollars from U.S. consumers' checking accounts, the newspaper said, citing state and federal officials briefed on the investigation. In the first action under the program, federal prosecutors have already brought a lawsuit against Four Oaks Bankfor being "deliberately ignorant" about processing payments on behalf of merchants, the report said. About $2.4 billion was illegally withdrawn from checking accounts of U.S. customers by companies enabled by Four Oaks Bank, the New York Times said. The bank later negotiated a civil settlement of about $1.2 million with federal prosecutors. However, a federal crackdown on banks remain tough as their role in siphoning off money is largely in the background with banking services being provided to third-party payment processors, who manage payments for their trading customers, the newspaper reported. The move has attracted criticism from congressional lawmakers, who accused the Department of Justice of trying to covertly quash the payday lending industry, according to the newspaper. The Department of Justice could not be immediately reached for comments outside of regular U.S. business hours. (Compiled by Shubhankar Chakravorty in Bangalore; Editing by Gopakumar Warrier) FREE AppDownload
TOKYO (Reuters) - Mitsubishi Heavy Industries is in advanced talks to supply parts for the F-35 stealth fighter to Britain's BAE Systems, in what would be the first involvement of a Japanese manufacturer in a global weapons program, according to people with knowledge of the discussions. Any agreement on such a groundbreaking deal hinges in part on whether Tokyo will subsidize the manufacture of components for the rear fuselage of the fighter that Mitsubishi Heavy is seeking to supply as a subcontractor, the three sources said. Mitsubishi Heavy, which made the famous Zero fighter in World War Two, has already won a contract worth more than $620 million for final assembly for the 42 F-35 jets now on order by Japan's military. A deal to become a second-tier supplier for the Lockheed Martin F-35 would deepen Mitsubishi Heavy's ties to a project to deliver a fighter jet that the United States and allies plan to use for decades. It would also mark a break with Japan's self-imposed curbs on military exports at a time when Prime MinisterShinzo Abe is pushing to bolster the self-reliance of Japan's military amid rising regional tensions with China. Japan's defense ministry and Mitsubishi Heavy declined to comment. Mark Ritson, a spokesman for BAE, said the company had been involved in discussions about "potential subcontracting" opportunities for Mitsubishi Heavy with Lockheed Martin. He said those discussions were ongoing but declined to comment on details. People with knowledge of the discussions said BAE and Mitsubishi Heavy had largely agreed terms on what work and technology would be transferred under the potential deal. The remaining problems are economic. Without a subsidy, Mitsubishi Heavy would struggle to make components for BAE without incurring a loss, the sources said. Under its current contract, Mitsubishi Heavy plans to complete manufacture of the first F-35 for Japan's Self-Defence Forces in 2017. BAE is responsible for manufacturing the fighter jet's rear fuselage, part of its design to make it harder to detect in flight, which accounts for 15 percent of its construction. The fuselage construction is expected to be worth billions of dollars if global forecasts for F-35 sales hit projections. The other countries in the nine-nation consortium building the plane are Italy, Turkey, Canada, Australia,Denmark, Norway and the Netherlands. It was not clear whether the Abe administration will give Mitsubishi the subsidies it wants. Japan's government has been seeking a deeper role for its suppliers in the F-35 program since 2011, when the previous government announced it had selected the jet as its next-generation fighter. The immediate priority for defence officials remains ensuring Mitsubishi's plans for a Nagoya-based plant to assemble the F-35's for use in Japan remain on track, one source said. Any subsidies for Mitsubishi Heavy would have to come out of funding for Japan's Ministry of Defence. Lockheed Martin, BAE and other members of the F-35 consortium are enthusiastic about Mitsubishi Heavy's participation in the wider program, but not if it means relenting on tight controls on production costs, another of the sources with knowledge of the talks said. So far, Japan's government has budgeted just over $620 million for Mitsubishi Heavy's F-35 assembly plant. IHI Corp has been allocated about $175 million to build engine parts for the jet while another roughly $55 million has been awarded to Mitsubishi Electric to build radar components. In all three cases, those contracts relate to F-35s that will be flown by Japan's Self-Defence Forces rather than the wider F-35 program. A deal for Mitsubishi Heavy to become a global supplier to Lockheed Martin could pave the way for the participation of other Japanese manufacturers in the wider F-35 program. Japan so far plans to buy 42 F-35s, dubbed the Joint Strike Fighter. Analysts expect it to acquire as many as 100 more to replace older Boeing Co F-15s. The Pentagon expects to spend $392 billion to develop and build 2,443 of the stealth aircraft. Orders for the F-35 from other countries could bring the total global fleet to more than 3,000 aircraft, although the program has been beset by delays and cost over-runs. Although gradually eased over the past several years, successive Japanese governments have upheld a ban on military exports since the 1960s. Critics have said that means Japan's defence spending is hobbled by inefficiencies since it relies on domestic suppliers that lack the scale of competitors in the United States and Europe. Abe has taken steps to bolster Japan's military and approved the biggest percentage increase in defence spending in almost two decades for the coming fiscal year. In a break with precedent, the Abe administration is also pushing for sales of military aircraft overseas with possible low-interest state loans or even development aid to entice buyers. Kawasaki Heavy Industries plans to market its new C-2 military cargo plane as a repurposed civilian transport aircraft, while Shinmaywa Industries' is in talks to sell the Indian government its US-2 amphibious aircraft. ($1 = 102.3550 Japanese yen) (Reporting by Tim Kelly; Editing by Alex Richardson) FREE AppDownload
Emerging markets have been getting slammed, and right in the epicenter of it all is the Turkish Lira, which has just been getting hammered non-stop amid a combination of economic and political factors. If you haven't seen the chart of the US Dollar vs. the Turkish Lira, it really is something to behold. Via XE.com, here's a one-year look. The trade has been virtually entirely one way. There's been almost no pause for breath as the dollar climbs and climbs against the Turkish lira, a move that's accelerated sharply in the past several weeks. XE.com FREE AppDownload
(Reuters) - Google Inc said on Sunday it had agreed to acquire privately held artificial intelligence company DeepMind Technologies Ltd. Technology news website Re/code, which reported news of the deal earlier, said the price was $400 million, without disclosing where it got the information. A Google spokesman declined to comment on the price. DeepMind representatives could not be immediately reached for comment. Founded in London in 2012 by Demis Hassabis, Shane Legg and Mustafa Suleyman, DeepMind uses general-purpose learning algorithms for applications such as simulations, e-commerce and games, according to its website. Google, which is working on projects including self-driving cars and robots, has become increasingly focused on artificial intelligence in recent years. In 2012, it hired Ray Kurzweil, considered one of the leading minds in the field, and in May it announced a partnership with NASA and several universities to launch the Quantum Artificial Intelligence Lab. (Reporting Alexei Oreskovic in San Francisco and Greg Roumeliotis in New York; Editing by Jeremy Laurence) FREE AppDownload
TOKYO (AP) — Japan's trade deficit surged to a record 11.47 trillion yen ($112 billion) in 2013 as the shutdown of nuclear power plants swelled the nation's energy import bill. Provisional data Monday showed that exports rose 9.5 percent to 69.8 trillion yen ($680.9 billion), while imports jumped 15 percent to 81.3 trillion yen ($793.2 billion). Japan's trade deficit in 2012 was 6.94 trillion yen. The deficit has been rising as costs for imports have surged with the weakening of the Japanese yen and increased purchases of foreign oil and gas. Japan's nuclear reactors have been offline for safety and regulatory checks after the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami devastated the Fukushima nuclear plant. The largest shortfall, 13.2 trillion yen ($128.8 billion), was with the Middle East, source of the largest share of resource-scarce Japan's imports of oil and gas. The weaker yen is a mixed blessing for Japan. It is boosting corporate profits due to higher yen-denominated income for companies that earn a large share of their revenues overseas. "Our imports are affected both by the yen's value and also by oil prices, so we will be watching the situation," chief government spokesman Yoshihide Suga said Monday. He reiterated Japan's eagerness to buy lower-priced shale gas from North America, pending U.S. approval of such exports. Apart from energy imports, Japanese manufacturers increasingly are relying on overseas sources for components for electronics and other products. The recovery in exports so far has failed to offset those costs and Japanese consumers are paying sharply higher prices for fuel and food. Japan's deficit with China, its biggest trading partner, rose more than 43 percent in 2013 to 5.02 trillion yen ($49 billion). With the U.S., it logged a surplus of 6.1 trillion yen ($59.5 billion), up nearly 20 percent from a year earlier. December's deficit was 1.3 trillion yen ($12.7 billion), the fourth straight month of increase. Japan's economy emerged from recession a year ago and has been gaining momentum, spurred by strong government spending and monetary stimulus. That has also pushed demand for imports higher, a trend likely to continue at least until a 3 percentage point increase in consumption tax to 8 percent takes effect in April, said Marcel Thieliant, an economist for Capital Economics in Singapore. So far, most of the increase in exports has come from the yen's weakening rather than an increase in export volumes, he said. "On the one hand, we expect the yen to weaken further, which should keep the cost of imports elevated. On the other hand, export volumes are likely to pick up as global growth is accelerating," he said in a commentary. The worse-than-expected trade data coincided with a flurry of selling on Tokyo's stock exchange, where the benchmark Nikkei 225 fell below 15,000 for the first time in two months following last week's selloffs in Europe and the U.S. The index closed down 2.8 percent at 15,005.73. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
en.wikipedia.org "... between technology, globalization, trade, the winner-take-all superstar effect, inequality is rising. This is not just a 'moral' issue but also an issue of too little consumption too little savings that is bad for global growth. So it becomes vicious cycle. It's a bit like the old Marxist idea that if profits grow too much compared to wages, there's not going to be enough consumption, and capitalism is going to self destruct. So I think that insight of Karl Marx is as useful today as it was 100 years ago." That quote is from Nouriel Roubini, and it perfectly summarizes what a lot of the world's elites were thinking about at the World Economic Forum. Roubini's words echoed the warning from MIT professor Erik Brynjolfsson, who told us: ...there are a lot of forces affecting inequality. There's globalization, there are institutional changes, cultural changes, but I think most economists would agree that the biggest chunk of it is due to technology. And that's because of what economists call skill-biased technical change — favoring skilled workers versus less-skilled workers. Also we talk in the book about capital-biased technical change — you bring capital over labor like when you replace humans with robots. And the third category that maybe is the most important one, we call it superstar-biased technical change, maybe we should come up with a better name. But it's the fact that technologies can leverage and amplify the special talents, skill, or luck of the 1% or maybe even the 100th of 1% and replicate them across millions or billions of people. In those kinds of markets, you tend to have winner-take-all outcomes and a few people reap enormous benefits and all of us as consumers reap benefits as well, but there's a lot less need for people of just average or above-average skills. Brynjolffson came to The World Economic Forum in Davos to warn policymakers that without changes, technology would exacerbate inequality, rather than benefit society as a whole. The folks at the World Economic Forum in Davos are almost all doing extremely well. They're the world's 1% (actually probably more like the world's 0.001%), and it's well known that the recovery has been good to them. But there was also a sense — that Roubini gets at in his comment — that the good times won't last if things keep becoming more unequal. Figuring out a way to promote mass welfare and to ensure that more people have jobs and strong incomes becomes crucial to preserving what the elites have. Better to have some sort of rebalancing than a dramatic capitalist-destroying rebalancing. FREE AppDownload
When will it be time to "buy the dip" in this market? It's possible that you'll want to wait a while. This is from Goldman's Weekly Kickstart: Global equity markets came under pressure this week following disappointing China growth data and mixed 4Q earnings results and ahead of the State of the Union address and the FOMC meeting next week. The S&amp;P 500 fell 2.6% while EuroStoxx 600 (3.3%) and MSCI Emerging Markets (3.9%) dropped further. The downward bias for S&amp;P 500 may continue based on our Sentiment Indicator, which shows institutional clients hold high net long futures positions and implies negative returns over the 4-8 week period starting late December when it initially breached 90. It now stands at 82. In other words, the market has been caught extremely one sided. We wrote about this on the interest rate side of things, that basically every fund manager has been betting on bond prices to go down, and that they reversed violently last week in a short-squeeze. The equity market has been "can't lose" for so long, you have ultra-bullish positions combined with some fresh turmoil (largely out of emerging markets) and it's possible that the selling will continue for a while. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Andrew Burton Good morning! It's the start of a brand new week, but the market anxiety that exploded last week continues through today.  Overnight, several key emerging markets got clobbered. India fell 1.8%. Thailand dropped 2.6%. Jakarta dropped 2.4%.  Elsewhere in Asia, Hong Kong lost 2.1% and Shanghai lost 1%. The emerging market currency front is also very interesting today. The Turkish lira was getting crushed this morning until the Turkish Central Bank announced an emergency meeting to be held tomorrow. That caused a big surge in the Lira to occur. European stocks had been falling earlier, but are now in the green. US markets are also higher, thanks in part to strong earnings from Caterpillar, whose shares are up 5% pre-market. Also remember that tonight in the US we have Apple earnings. FREE AppDownload
