Wikimedia Commons(Reuters) - Discover Financial Services Inc sued Visa Inc on Tuesday, alleging the world's largest cards company has been using anti-competitive practices in its debit card business, and sought compensation for lost profit, court documents showed. Discover, through its Pulse Network LLC unit, alleges that "in order to maintain its monopoly, Visa has undertaken a series of illegal actions that undermine competition – harming rival debit networks, merchants, acquirers, card issuers, and consumers." Representatives at Visa could not immediately be reached for comment outside regular business hours. Pulse requires its debit cardholders to authorize transactions with a personal identification number (PIN). Most Visa transactions use customer signature. The lawsuit alleges that "Visa has a long history of making sure that PIN debit does not predominate, including undertaking illegal behavior to fend off competitive threats to its debit network services monopoly." In the petition, Discover said that Visa is offering economic incentives to merchants to choose the Visa network for transactions. Discover is challenging a Visa rule that requires financial issuers of Visa signature debit cards to also include Visa's PIN services instead of allowing other PIN networks like Pulse to compete for that business. The case is Pulse Network LLC v. Visa Inc in the U.S. District Court of Southern District of Texas, Houston Division. Case: 4:14-cv-03391.   (Reporting by Supriya Kurane in Bangalore; Editing by Gopakumar Warrier) FREE AppDownload
Thousands of North Koreans gathered in Kim Il Sung Square in Pyongyang on Tuesday to show their support for their government's rejection of a recent UN resolution on human rights in North Korea.  Kim Ki Nam, Secretary of the Central Committee of the Worker's Party of Korea told the assembled crowd: "Our army and people will launch their fiercest and most intense battle on record to crush mercilessly the heinous and frenzied human rights racket against Korea."  Last week North Korea threatened to bolster its war capability and conduct a fourth nuclear test to cope with what it calls US hostility that led to the approval of the landmark UN resolution on its human rights violations.  A UN committee adopted the resolution last Tuesday - which was drafted by the European Union and Japan - urging the Security Council to refer the North's human rights situation to the International Criminal Court.  It's the first time a UN resolution included the idea that Pyongyang's absolute leader Kim Jong Un could be targeted by prosecutors. Produced by Devan Joseph. Video courtesy of Associated Press.Follow BI Video: On Facebook
BUENOS AIRES (Reuters) - Argentina's President Cristina Fernandez returned to the public stage in fighting form on Tuesday after a three-week break due to an infection, declaring in a speech to businessmen she would not be held ransom by hedge funds suing the country. The 61-year-old, two-term president who has had various health problems in recent years was discharged from hospital on Nov. 9 after treatment for bacterial infection of the colon and ordered by her doctors to rest. But in her 40-minute speech to the Argentine Chamber of Construction, she appeared every bit her usual fiery self, attacking the hedge funds that purchased Argentine debt for cents on the dollar after its devastating 2002 default and are now suing it for full repayment. Holders of 93 percent of Argentina's defaulted debt accepted swaps in 2005 and 2010 for new paper offering around 30 cents on the dollar. "We have a lot of interest in solving the external issue. That's why we reached a deal with the Paris Club," Fernandez said. "But no financial vulture nor judicial raptor is going to extort money from this president." Argentina has been locked in a legal battle with the hedge funds led by NML Capital Ltd. and Aurelius Capital Management for years. In July, a U.S. court order prevented the South American country from making an interest payment on its restructured bonds, tipping it into a new default at a time when its economy was already struggling with soaring inflation and dwindling foreign reserves. Among her other health problems, Fernandez had an operation last year to remove blood that had pooled on her brain and took several days off last month with a sore throat. (Reporting by Sarah Marsh and Walter Bianchi; Editing by Cynthia Osterman) FREE AppDownload
(Reuters) - Activist investor Carl Icahn raised his stake in U.S. car rental company Hertz Global Holdings Inc to 10.77 percent from 8.48 percent. The billionaire was already Hertz's largest shareholder and in the past few months had successfully pushed for management changes and won board seats on the company. Hertz shares rose 1.7 percent to $25.68 in trading after the bell on Tuesday. Hertz has owned up to a string of accounting errors, originating in 2011, that will require it to restate or correct its financial results for the past three years. Earlier this month, Icahn-backed John Tague was named as Hertz's chief executive, fending off a challenge from Dollar Thrifty CEO Scott Thomson, who was backed by Jana Partners, the company's second-largest shareholder. The role had fallen vacant in September after Mark Frissora stepped down citing personal reasons, about a month after the accounting issues came to light. Up to Tuesday's close, Hertz's stock had fallen 20 percent since Icahn revealed his stake in the company on Aug. 20.   (Reporting by Rohit T. K. in Bangalore; Editing by Savio D'Souza) FREE AppDownload
Some people believe that when you find the right person you just know. The rest of us could use a little help figuring out how to choose the right spouse. You can actually optimize your chances of marrying the best person using the solution to the famous Secretary Problem. This problem has many applications (including how to choose the best secretary), but this one is the most fun. Produced by Sara Silverstein and Sam Rega. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
By this time next year, HP expects to have cleaved itself into two huge, publicly traded companies. On Tuesday, HP CEO Meg Whitman talked about how she and her team plan to do that while keeping customers calm, happy and willing to sign big contracts. "This is a big and complicated separation," Whitman told analysts on the company's quarterly conference on Tuesday. "It is the biggest separation that's ever been done and it's not a typical spin-off, where you've got one big company spinning off a little part of the company. These are two Fortune 50 companies that both have about $57 billion of revenue." So she formed a new "separation" group. "We have some of our most talented executives running the separation and that is what they are doing full time. At its peak, that will probably be between 400 and 500 people," Whitman said. "The rest of HP, all 275,000 of the rest, will be in fact, focused on running the business. I have a lot of confidence we'll be able to deliver [a good] FY15, which is critical." What will those 400 to 500 people be doing? She explained: There is one central "corporate separation management office," she said. They are creating three years of historic financial records for each of the different businesses. They are also doing a "very detailed analysis of tax and legal separation. We have over 786 legal entities at this company." This group will be analyzing all 786 to see where they belong or if they should be kept as they are at all. There is also a "separation management office" for both of the new companies: HP Enterprise and HP Inc. "Their job is to make sure we have the right strategy with the right cost structure as we head into being two separate companies," she explained. And there's a group of people working on the separation of HP's information technology: servers, networks, data centers, software licenses and the like. The good news here is that HP is going to reboot its IT infrastructure from scratch. "That is an opportunity to create an IT infrastructure for each company that isn't based on our legacy system or isn't based on a manufacturing system, which for so many years it has been," Whitman said. Building IT from scratch for two huge companies is going to be expensive and HP hasn't said how much it plans to spend on this separation. But if your goal is to create two huge new tech companies, it only makes sense that they eat their own dog food and use all the latest, greatest tech. All of this has already begun. "We have deadlines every month. Things that have to be decided, operations that have to be changed," she said. Whitman said that she'll be providing investors with progress reports every quarter. FREE AppDownload
Wall Street's predictions for 2015 have been rolling in fast and furious over the last few weeks, and the latest firm giving its projection for the S&amp;P 500 is Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Savita Subramanian and the equity strategy team at BAML see the S&amp;P 500 rising to 2,200 in 2015, a modest 6% return. Subramanian notes that this is the lowest forecasted S&amp;P returns since her team took over the year-end forecast role in 2011.  "Stocks certainly look more attractive than bonds," Subramanian writes, "[but] the case for stocks versus other asset classes is less clear." Subramanian notes that gold and oil are now particularly cheap against stocks on a historical basis, and she expects that stocks will rise in-line with earnings growth. But similar to the forecast from David Kostin and the equity team at Goldman Sachs, Subramanian sees no multiple expansion for the S&amp;P 500 in 2015.  Despite the modest upside forecast, Subramanian still sees plenty of reasons to buy US stocks.  "[Bank of America Merrill Lynch's] Sell Side Indicator, which tracks Wall Street Strategists' average recommended allocation to US equities, currently sits at just 52%," Subramanian notes. "This is up from the all-time low of 43% we observed in July 2012, but well below the historical strategic equity allocation of 60-65%." And so with investors likely underinvested in stocks, this is a bullish sign. BofA Merrill LynchSubramanian also says that though the aging — and retiring — US population is often cited as a negative for stock, Boomers will need both income and capital appreciation, making the S&amp;P 500's dividend-paying members attractive to these investors.  To this end, Subramanian sees "big, old and ugly" stocks as potential leaders in 2015, and says investors ought to consider leaving the "new, shiny, exciting IPOs alone." And overall, though Subramanian expects more modest gains in 2015, she says the bull market is still in tact. "So while returns may compress from the outsized gains we have seen over the last several years, we remain constructive on equities. The bull market in stocks is not over, in our view." For some perspective, here's what some of Wall Street's other top strategists have predicted so far: FREE AppDownload
National Employment Law Project What is the true state of wage-growth in America? On Monday, we posted a chart from Deutsche Bank's Torsten Slok showing that both high and mid-wage job growth have vastly out-paced low-wage growth. A little later, we got an email from a reader asking why Slok's breakdown of wage buckets seems so different from the above chart, put out by the National Employment Law Project (NELP).  It is from a report tracking what NELP refers to as the low-wage recovery. This chart shows substantially more low wage growth during the recovery (the blue bars) than Slok does.  What's the difference here? It's all in the methods.  In the NELP analysis, the division of low, medium, and high jobs is made by lining up each industry's median wage, then dividing that into three equal groups. From the appendix of the report:  ...we ordered industry median wages from lowest to highest, weighted by industry employment in 1/2008. The logic of this analysis is to form industry thirds at the peak employment month, and then to track employment changes in those thirds during the ensuing periods of net employment loss and net employment growth. Justin Wolfers at the Upshot wasn't super impressed with this method back when the NELP report came out. "The industry of a job tells you something about the type of building you walk into when you go to work, and not much about the type of work you do, or how well you are paid," he wrote at the time.  On the other hand, Slok's buckets aren't equal. He breaks down high, medium, and low wage jobs by occupational groups, in part based on this paper on job polarization by Nir Jaimovich and Henry Siu (well worth a read on its own). Here's how it breaks down (page 8):  In this delineation, non-routine cognitive occupations [high wage] include managerial, professional and technical workers, such as physicians, public relations managers, financial analysts, computer programmers, and economists. Routine cognitive occupations [mid wage] are those in sales, and office and administrative support; examples include secretaries, bank tellers, retail salespeople, travel agents, mail clerks, and data entry keyers. Routine manual occupations [also mid wage, largely thanks to unionization] are “blue collar” jobs, such as machine operators and tenders, mechanics, dressmakers, fabricators and assemblers, cement masons, and meat processing workers. Non-routine manual occupations [low wage] are service jobs, including janitors, gardeners, manicurists, bartenders, and home health aides. This delineation means that Slok puts far fewer workers in the low wage bucket than the other two, therefore the number of jobs created in that bucket is necessarily going to be smaller. It's not perfect, but breaking it down by occupation, rather than industry, gets a little more granular about how incomes correlate to each bucket. In an interview with Business Insider today, Slok noted in reference to his chart that it's "broadly an urban myth in my view that it’s only the wealthy who have benefited [from the recovery]." We'd agree, to some extent, though still-sluggish wage growth suggests that recovery has been slow in coming to the middle and working classes.  FREE AppDownload
The cast of  "The Imitation Game" offered their thoughts on artificial intelligence. The film is directed by Morten Tyldum and follows the race against the clock to crack the German Enigma Code during World War II. It stars Benedict Cumberbatch as Alan Turing and Keira Knightley as Joan Clarke. Produced by Devan Joseph. Video courtesy of Associated Press.
The following is a winning essay from the nationwide American InvestWrite competition conducted by the nonprofit SIFMA Foundation.  The appeal to a money-hoarding cookie jar was written by then-fourth grade student Joshua Zirkiyev and is republished here with permission.  Note that all financial figures reflect 2012. Hey, cookie jar, we have to talk. You are hoarding money and it's not growing. This just isn't working for me. Wouldn't you just rather have Girl Scout cookies in your jar while I invest the dough you have? I am going to invest in Apple, a mutual fund, and a bond. Hey, Cookie jar, I am going to convince you to open your lid. If you open your lid, I will invest all the money that you have and it is going to grow and you will get more money in your jar. The stock that I chose is Apple. Based on the Apple website, Apple announced plans that Apple is going to buy stocks from investors and that will increase the stock’s price. They are going to start paying dividends too. A dividend is spare money that is paid to investors by the company when the company does well. Another reason Apple stock will go up is because Apple made new products such as the iPad 3, iPad 2, and much more! It is good to manufacture stuff in China than in the U.S. because in China, companies pay people $2 an hour but in the U.S., they pay $20 per hour. If you manufactured in the U.S., it will lower your profit, so you would not want to do it in the U.S. Apple manufactures all of their products in China and this helps Apple have a bigger profit, which helps to raise the stock price. Another way Apple controls its costs is by using its own software instead of paying other companies, such as Microsoft, for their software. Cookie jar, in the last year Apple went up from $257.63-$599.55! That is an increase of 72.2%!! If I leave the money you have inside you, we will get 0%. Apple makes good products that everybody wants to buy! Sometimes Apple did lose money but very rarely. Overall Apple went up. According to analysts on TV, Apple might be going up by 14.5% in one year! For these reasons, Apple is a good company to invest in. The name of my bond is C891W.208.37. It is really UPS (United Postal Service), but UPS is an abbreviation. The rating of this bond is AA-+. Two days ago, the price of this bond was $138, the yield is 8.375%. Even though Apple's return last year was 72%, I would still buy this bond because bonds hardly ever lose money. SIFMA FoundationJoshua Zirkiyev after ringing NASDAQ MarketSite after the closing bell on November 10, 2014. I am also going to invest in the Mutual Fund called Fidelity Small Cap Discovery Fund. According to www.fidelity.com, it invests in 67 small companies! Its code is FSCRX. This fund is going to do well because in the last 3 years, FSCRX went up 36.19% per year! But last year, it only went up 4.83%. This means that if I invested $100 in this fund last year, today I would have $104.83. In the last 5 years, it went up 9.25% per year! The expense ratio is 1.08%. An expense ratio is what it costs an investment to operate a Mutual Fund. This means that if you invested $100, after one year, the fund will charge you $1.08. But do not worry, Mr. Cookie jar, based on the past information, the growth of this fund is much higher than the expense ratio. I checked. Mr. Cookie jar, if you give me all the money that you have, all of the money will grow and I will then try to sell the stock, bond, or mutual fund. You, Mr. Cookie jar, will be able to make more money when the stock, bond, or mutual fund goes up. This is a deal you can’t refuse. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisers.  A Guy Who's Been At Merrill Lynch For 33 Years Just Left (The Wall Street Journal)  Douglas Twohill, who has been at Merrill Lynch for 33 years, just left the firm and joined rival UBS, reports Michael Wursthorn. And with him went Stevel Scalici, who has been at Merrill since 2009. It is unclear why either of the men left Merrill. According to a UBS spokesperson, Twohill managed $223 million in assets and had $2 million in production. "Like its major rivals, Merrill Lynch has been trying to stem the tide of financial-advisor attrition. The large brokerages are in fierce competition for talent, willing to pay signing bonuses of up to three times an adviser's annual production to lure them from one another," reports Wursthorn. One Morgan Stanley Advisor Has Developed Two Successful Investment Strategies (Financial Advisor Magazine)  Financial advisor Eve Ellis of the Matterhorn Group at Morgan Stanley has developed two of her own investing strategies for clients. First, "Ellis and Matterhorn co-founder Nikolay Djibankov launched Parity Portfolio, a gender lens investment strategy that invests exclusively in US-based companies that have at least three women on their boards." And second, she developed the Sustainability Portfolio, in which the group invests across seven sustainability themes: climate change, demand for water, waste-generation issues, global demand for food, improving lives, aging and healthy lifestyles, reports Jerilyn Klein Bier. We Might Be In A REIT ETF Bubble (Wealth Management)  REIT ETFs are this year's winner in the alternative investment space, but they may be getting too popular. Right now REIT ETFs are trading 10% above their 200-day moving averages. "Strict technicians would tell you that this is one sign that REITs may be a bit overbought," said Steve Sachs, head of capital markets at ProShares. Overall, investors are starting to act more cautiously, and many believe that investor's hunger for yield has inflated asset prices. But not everyone agrees. Paul Brigandi, the head of trading at Direxion Shares, said: "prices trending above their 200-day average doesn't necessarily mean the fund's overbought. It fact, on an intermediate basis, it's an indicator that the trend may continue." One Advisor Was Just Ordered To Pay $300,000 To UBS (Financial Planning)  The ex-UBS adviser Michael Hadden has to pay the firm $300,000. Back in 2011, Hadden "failed to honor contractual obligations under the terms of two promissory notes that were due after he quit his job on Nov. 3, 2011," reports Andrew Welsch. Afterwards, "Hadden sought counterclaims for damages of $1.3 million, alleging breach of understanding, fraudulent inducement and creation of an inhospitable work environment," among other things. The Finra panel ultimately sided with UBS, and Hadden could not be reached for a comment. Real Estate Markets Are Attractive Right Now (Advisor Perspectives)   Real estate has been doing well this year. The US real estate market outperformed US equities overall: the S&amp;P 500 is up 12.2% for the year, but the Dow Jones US Select Real Estate Securities Index is up more than twice that at 27.9% for the year. Global non-US real estate market outperformed global non-US equities, as well. And although it's up less than US Real Estate, "behind Global ex-US Real Estate is an important rebalancing methodology that brings constituent weights back toward a measure of relative value — something that is especially important after periods of strong performance," writes Christopher Gannatti "The bottom line: While there is no way to be certain of future performance, we think that it could be beneficial to consider diversifying exposures to US Real Estate — which has performed well — with Global ex-US Real Estate," writes Gannatti. FREE AppDownload
Facebook/Mammoth MountainSnow has already start to hit parts of the US, and naturally, that means that we're already thinking about ski season. Vail and Aspen may have the cachet that comes with being glamorous, high-end ski resorts, but they also have crowds and incredibly expensive hotels, restaurants, and lift tickets that can cost upwards of $800 per day. But not all ski resorts are that expensive — or that pretentious. We found the 11 most underrated ski resorts in the US. These mountains are (relatively) cheap, crowd-free, and get tons of powder. They also have cool towns that will keep you entertained when you're not on the slopes. FREE AppDownload
Personal finance expert Suze Orman is leaving CNBC after spending 14 years at the business news network. Orman will be teaming up with Warner Bros. Television Group's Telepictures to launch a new daily show called "Money Wars."   "The Suze Orman" show is one of CNBC's highest rated shows even though it airs on Saturdays at 9 p.m. and midnight EST. Here's the press release:  Suze Orman, America’s foremost personal financial expert, is embarking on the next chapter of her television career, developing an all-new daily program to be produced by Warner Bros. Television Group’s Telepictures. The new show will be called Suze Orman’s Money Wars and will air five days per week. Suze Orman’s Money Wars will focus on families, friends and couples whose disputes about money are affecting their lives. Understanding that fights about money are never really only about the money, Suze will use her signature ability to settle these disputes and help the opposing parties resolve their issues while starting them on the road to financial responsibility. Orman will conclude her highly successful 14-year run as host of CNBC’s The Suze Orman Show in March 2015 as the longest-tenured program host in the network’s history. Reaching three million viewers on a weekly basis*, The Suze Orman Show helps people make the connection between self worth and net worth. A two-time Emmy® winner and eight-time Gracie Award winner (which honors the nation’s best radio, television and cable programming for and about women), Orman is also the author of nine consecutive New York Times–best-sellers and is a magazine/online columnist. She was twice named to Time magazine’s list of the world’s 100 most influential people and has been named by Forbes as one of the world’s 100 most powerful women. Orman has co-produced and hosted eight specials for PBS based on her best-selling books, and is one of the most successful fundraisers in the history of the network. She was also one of the most frequent guests on The Oprah Winfrey Show, making 30 appearances on the legendary syndicated TV program as a financial expert, and she is currently a contributing editor to O: The Oprah Magazine. The last new episode of "The Suze Orman Show" will air on March 28, CNBC's president Mark Hoffman said in a memo to employees.  FREE AppDownload
HP just reported its fourth quarter earnings: inline with profits and a miss on revenue. HP reported Q4 earnings per share of $1.06, right in line with expectations and revenue of $28.40 billion, that's a miss. Analysts expected $1.06 earnings per share for the quarter and revenue to be $28.77 billion, down 1.3% over the year-ago quarter. For the year, HP reported net revenue of $111.5 billion, that's another slight miss. Analysts expected the year to finish with $111.74 billion in revenue, nearly flat (down only a .5% from last year). HP beat the non-GAAP full year EPS number by 1 cent. It reported $3.74 when analysts expected $3.73. The company had given guidance of $3.70 to $3.74 per share. This is the first earnings report since HP announced its plans to cleave itself into two public companies in 2015. Revenue was down in just about every business unit. The only bright spot was the PC division, where revenue was up 4% year over year with a 4.0% operating margin, entirely due to businesses finally buying new PCs. Consumer PC revenue was down 2%. Here's the press release. PALO ALTO, CA -- (Marketwired) -- 11/25/14 -- HP (HPCQ) (NYSE: HPQ) HP fiscal 2014 fourth quarter and full-year financial performance HP fiscal 2014 fourth quarter and full-year financial performance Information about HP's use of non-GAAP financial information is provided under &amp;quot;Use of non-GAAP financial information&amp;quot; below. HP today announced financial results for fiscal 2014 and fourth quarter ended October 31, 2014. Fiscal 2014 net revenue of $111.5 billion was down 1% from the prior-year period and flat on a constant currency basis. Fiscal 2014 GAAP diluted net earnings per share (EPS) was $2.62, flat in comparison with the prior-year period amount and within the previously provided outlook of $2.60 to $2.64 per share. Fiscal 2014 non-GAAP diluted net EPS was $3.74, up from $3.56 in the prior-year period and within the previously provided outlook of $3.70 to $3.74 per share. Fiscal 2014 non-GAAP net earnings and non-GAAP diluted net EPS exclude after-tax costs of $2.1 billion and $1.12 per diluted share, respectively, related to restructuring charges, the amortization of intangible assets and acquisition-related charges. Fourth quarter net revenue of $28.4 billion was down 2% from the prior-year period and down 3% on a constant currency basis. Fourth quarter diluted net GAAP EPS was $0.70, down from $0.73 in the prior-year period and within its previously provided outlook of $0.67 to $0.71 per share. Fourth quarter non-GAAP diluted net EPS was $1.06, up from $1.01 in the prior-year period and within its previously provided outlook of $1.03 to $1.07. Fourth quarter non-GAAP net earnings and non-GAAP diluted net EPS exclude after-tax costs of $684 million and $0.36 per diluted share, respectively, related to restructuring charges, the amortization of intangible assets and acquisition-related charges. "I'm excited to say that HP's turnaround continues on track,&amp;quot; said Meg Whitman, chairman, president and chief executive officer, HP. &amp;quot;In FY14, we stabilized our revenue trajectory, strengthened our operations, showed strong financial discipline, and once again made innovation the cornerstone of our company. Our product roadmaps are the best they've been in years and our partners and customers believe in us. There's still a lot left to do, but our efforts to date, combined with the separation we announced in October, sets the stage for accelerated progress in FY15 and beyond.&amp;quot; OutlookFor fiscal 2015, HP estimates non-GAAP diluted net EPS to be in the range of $3.83 to $4.03 and GAAP diluted net EPS to be in the range of $3.23 to $3.43. Fiscal 2015 non-GAAP diluted net EPS estimates exclude after-tax costs of approximately $0.60 per share, related primarily to the amortization of intangible assets and restructuring charges. For the fiscal 2015 first quarter, HP estimates non-GAAP diluted net EPS to be in the range of $0.89 to $0.93 and GAAP diluted net EPS to be in the range of $0.72 to $0.76. Fiscal 2015 first quarter non-GAAP diluted net EPS estimates exclude after-tax costs of approximately $0.17 per share, related primarily to the amortization of intangible assets and restructuring charges. The fiscal 2015 full year and first quarter outlooks do not include costs associated with the separation, which are expected to be non-GAAP adjustments beginning in Q1 2015. Asset managementHP generated $2.7 billion in cash flow from operations in the fourth quarter, down 4% from the prior-year period. Inventory ended the quarter at $6.4 billion, up 3 days year over year to 27 days. Accounts receivable ended the quarter at $13.8 billion, down 5 days year over year to 44 days. Accounts payable ended the quarter at $15.9 billion, up 11 days year over year to 67 days. HP's dividend payment of $0.16 per share in the fourth quarter resulted in cash usage of $309 million. HP also utilized $750 million of cash during the quarter to repurchase approximately 21.7 million shares of common stock in the open market. HP exited the quarter with $15.5 billion in gross cash. Fiscal 2014 fourth quarter segment results FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucy NicholsonOil had a wild day on Tuesday.The Dow and S&amp;P 500 both slipped on Tuesday, ending their streak of record highs, while oil prices tumbled after reports ahead of Thursday's OPEC meeting gave a mixed view on whether the cartel would agree to production cuts. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Tuesday: 1. The big story on Tuesday was oil. West Texas Intermediate crude futures fell to $74 on Tuesday, a decline of more than 2% or more than $1.80, after reports from Reuters early in the day said that officials from Saudi Arabia, Mexico, Russia, and Venezuela met ahead of Thursday's OPEC meeting with the sides not agreeing to cut oil production. A report from The Wall Street Journal said that at Thursday's meeting, Saudi Arabia will "likely side with calls for the group to adhere more closely to its self-imposed production ceiling," which the cartel hasn't been firm on since reaching a 30 million barrel per day production target three years ago. Some on Wall Street are expecting OPEC to announce a production cut as the organization tries to combat declining oil prices amid a global supply glut. 2. The first revision to third quarter GDP came in way better than expected on Tuesday morning, with the BEA's revision showing the US economy grew at a 3.9% annualized pace in the third quarter, better than the 3.5% initial reading and the 3.3% revised pace that was expected by Wall Street economists.  3. We also got housing data from the S&amp;P/Case-Shiller home price index, which showed home prices rose 0.34% in September, the first month-on-month increase since April. Expectations were for the report to show a 0.3% increase.  4. Yale professor Robert Shiller, the Shiller half of the Case-Shiller index, appeared on CNBC following the latest release and noted that the futures market is currently expecting home prices to rise 5% a year over the next two years, which Shiller said seems reasonable. Shiller also talked a bit about the stock market, which according to his CAPE Shiller P/E ratio is historically expensive, but Shiller said he is still invested in the stock market.  5. We also got consumer confidence data on Tuesday from The Conference Board, with November's report disappointing. The report showed consumer confidence fell to 88.7 in November, down from 94.5 last month, and widely missing expectations for a 96 reading. The Conference Board's Lynn Franco said following the report, "Consumer confidence retreated in November, primarily due to reduced optimism in the short-term outlook." 6. Apple hit a new all-time on Tuesday, and the iPhone maker's market cap crossed the $700 billion threshold for the first time.  7. The latest household debt survey from the New York Federal Reserve showed that household debt rose to $11.71 trillion in the third quarter, up from $11.62 trillion the prior quarter. "Outstanding household debt, led by increases in auto loans, student loans and credit card balances, has steadily trended upward in recent quarters," said Wilbert van der Klaauw, senior vice president and economist at the New York Fed. Overall, household debt is below its $12.68 trillion peak reached in the third quarter of 2008.  Don't Miss: Nassim Taleb's Concept Of Black Swans, Exemplified By Thanksgiving Turkeys » FREE AppDownload
Business Insider is a dynamic publisher reaching the new generation of business leaders. We are a well-funded start-up at the forefront of digital media. We are also one of the fastest-growing business media companies, reaching more than 60 million readers per month.  YouTube screencap We are looking for inside sales people (Account Executives) to sell across all industry verticals. The Account Executive develops and cultivates client relationships. The AE is accountable for achieving specified revenue targets, prospecting clients, and accurately forecasting revenue. She or he works closely with Account Directors to formulate account strategies and close deals. Success will be highly dependent upon a candidate's willingness to prospect, cold call, and articulate the BI value proposition.  Job responsibilities:• Drive early stage opportunities through the pipeline • Achieve revenue goals on a quarterly basis • Seek out and develop relationships with clients; develop an understanding of clients' business issues; sell through BI offerings that support clients' strategic and tactical needs • Drive engagement with clients and deliver an exceptional customer experience • Communicate effectively in writing and over the phone • Accurately manage and forecast sales pipeline Requirements:• College degree and 1-2 years of work experience • Work / internship experience in the digital media space • Attention to detail • Drive, determination, consistency and passion  • Mastery of typical office software applications We've got positions open in New York, Chicago and San Francisco. Apply online and tell us why you're a good fit for the role.  FREE AppDownload
FinVizOil prices had a wild ride on Tuesday. Crude oil prices were all over the place on Tuesday, but have fallen to $74, their lowest level of the day, in mid-afternoon trade. Earlier on Tuesday, oil prices were trading near $76.50 a barrel. Tuesday's decline marks a more than 2.3%, or $1.78, decline for oil. The volatility came as headlines crossed regarding discussions on potential production cuts between various oil ministers ahead of OPEC's Thursday meeting in Vienna.  Prices rebounded a bit off of their lows following a WSJ report that OPEC ministers were near an agreement on production cuts. The report from the Journal's Benoit Faucon, Summer Said, and Sarah Kent said that, "Saudi Arabia, the de facto leader of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, is likely to side with calls for the group to adhere more closely to its self-imposed production ceiling at Thursday’s meeting of OPEC oil ministers, according to a Gulf official familiar with the Saudi position." This report followed headlines from Reuters earlier on Tuesday that said Venezuela, Russia, Mexico, and Saudi Arabia will "monitor" oil prices for a year, but did not agree to any output cut. Reuters reported that Venezuela officials said a meeting with Saudi Arabian oil minister Ali Al-Naimi did not result in the agreement for any output cut. The parties agreed to meet again in three months. Mexico and Russia are not OPEC members. The Journal's report noted that OPEC agreed three years ago to a 30 million barrels per day production limit, though member nations have regularly exceeded this limit.  Both of these reports come just two days ahead of the latest OPEC meeting, which some in the market have expected would result in a production cut from the oil exporting cartel.  And as Business Insider's Linette Lopez reports, this news is particularly bad news for Venezuela, which has seen inflation go through the roof and currency reserves fall to an all-time low.  The declining price of oil will provide no relief to the South American nation, and perhaps make the situation worse for Venezuela, as the country needs oil to be around $85 a barrel in order to pay for imports and keep up with debt payments. Oil prices, which have slid more than 30% in the last several months, have been pressured by a global economic slowdown and a glut in supply, and many expected OPEC to announce an agreement on some sort of production cut to curb price declines. In recent days, oil prices had rallied a bit, with WTI moving from about $73.50 a nearly $77 a barrel, before resuming their decline on Tuesday. FREE AppDownload
© Pool/AFP/File Stan HondaIraq's largest oil refinery in the northern town of Baiji on August 5, 2003Vienna (AFP) - Rosneft has trimmed its oil output partly in response to sliding crude prices, the Russian oil giant said Tuesday, as an under-pressure OPEC mulled taking similar action. Rosneft said it had cut its daily output by 25,000 barrels because of "market conditions". The token reduction represented less than one percent of the behemoth's total and did little to boost energy prices on depressed global commodity markets. The announcement given in a company statement came after Rosneft chief executive Igor Sechin held talks with officials from Mexcio and OPEC members Saudi Arabia and Venezuela in Vienna, the venue for Thursday's key meeting of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries. OPEC, whose dozen members together pump out about one-third of the world's crude, was to hold its most significant meeting in recent years. The Vienna-headquartered cartel is under pressure from its poorer members like Venezuela and Ecuador to cut output after tumbling prices have slashed their precious revenues. Crude futures have sunk 30 percent since June to four-year lows on the back of plentiful oil supplies, a strong dollar and worries about stalling energy demand in a weak global economy. However the cartel's Gulf members, led by kingpin Saudi Arabia, have rejected calls for a cut unless they are guaranteed market share in the highly competitive arena, according to analysts. Despite the apparent differences, OPEC and non-OPEC oil producers Tuesday agreed that crude prices have fallen too far, Venezuelan Foreign Minister Rafael Ramirez said. "We agreed that the price is not good. Everybody is worried," he told reporters. "We discussed the situation on the market, we shared our points of view and we agreed to keep in contact, and we will meet again in three months," he added. Russian Energy Minister Alexander Novak was among participants in the meeting, while the four delegations failed to agree on a joint cut in output and left any such decision for OPEC members on Thursday. The Rosneft statement said Sechin "believes that market players should be responding to market changes more proactively, and to this end it is required to jointly step into in-depth market research and analysis, and do it on a regular basis". He did not say when the country's largest oil producer -- responsible for about 40 percent of Russia's total output-- implemented the curbs. But they represent just a fraction of the 4.1 million barrels per day that Rosneft says it has averaged over the first 10 months of the year. Ahead of the OPEC meeting, the world's top oil producer Saudi Arabia has cut what it charges US customers, in a move seen aimed at maintaining its market share as it is faced with increasing competition from cheaper oil extracted from shale rock in the United States. Analysts say the kingdom is content to see shale oil producers -- and even some members of the cartel -- suffer from low prices and will resist pressure to reduce output and shore up the cost of oil. Benchmark Brent crude oil traded at $78.88 a barrel in Tuesday trade after a loss of 80 cents compared with Monday's close. It had stood at $115 in June.  Saudi Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi was silent about his government's intentions Monday as he arrived in Vienna.  His Iraqi counterpart Adel Abdel Mahdi arrived in the Austrian capital pushing for action, deeming the steep price drop "not acceptable".  OPEC pumped 30.6 million barrels per day last month, above its 30 million bpd oil target, according to the International Energy Agency which advises countries on energy policy. "With many of the cartel's members suffering a rapidly deteriorating balance sheet given the recent rout in Brent prices, all eyes will be firmly fixed on this OPEC meeting for any indication of members taking steps to address the fundamental picture" of supply and demand, Sucden broker analyst Kash Kamal said Tuesday.   FREE AppDownload
Some stock market experts believe the US remains the best bet in the world. Others believe its overpriced, and investors should prepare for years of low returns. Barclays' Jonathan Glionna falls into that latter camp. He cites familiar worries: share buybacks will slow and profit margins are peaking. With this in mind, Glionna offers his 2015 year-end target for the S&amp;P 500: 2,100. That's a meager 1.4% gain from today's 2,070 level. From his Nov. 20 note: "We believe US equities are transitioning out of a recovery rally and into a period of lower returns as the benefits of margin expansion and share repurchases prove to be already priced in and a return of faster revenue growth becomes a prerequisite for another re-rating higher. We forecast the S&amp;P 500 to reach 2100 by the end of 2015. We expect faster earnings growth outside the US in 2015 and, with lower valuations and a looser policy stance, we prefer “international” stocks over US stocks. One of the reasons this strategy did not work in 2014 was the heavy positioning toward overseas markets established during 2013 and early 2014. This appears much less extreme now and therefore likely to be less of a constraint on our view in 2015." He expects 4.0% year-over-year revenue growth, which he expects to drive an 8% increase in earnings per share. Barclays global equity strategy team recommends being underweight US stocks relative to non-US stocks due to valuation. "[G]lobal equity markets are likely to have to cope with a turn in the US monetary policy cycle during 2015," he wrote. "Although we doubt that a rise in the Fed Funds rate will have a prolonged damaging effect on the US market, it will likely prove a headwind relative to the looseness of policy elsewhere." For some context, here's a roundup of some other 2015 forecasts we've seen: Credit Suisse's Andrew Garthwaite: 2,100 Goldman Sachs' David Kostin: 2,100 Deutsche Bank's David Bianco: 2,150 Citi's Tobias Levkovich: 2,200 UBS's Julian Emanuel: 2,225 Oppenheimer's John Stoltzfus: 2,311 FREE AppDownload
A recent Quora post prompted the question, "What are some of the most mind-blowing facts that sound like 'BS', but are actually true?" They might be hard to believe, but these facts about geography, people and events are in fact true.  Produced by Justin Gmoser Follow BI Video: On YouTube
Google EarthAt Très Bonjour, everything — and we mean everything — is made of latex.Increasingly known as the hipster capital of Germany, Berlin is home to its fair share of trendy bars, concept restaurants, and contemporary street art. We rounded up 24 of the coolest new places the city has to offer, from a latex-only boutique to a swimming pool-turned-nightclub to a restaurant that doubles as a tattoo parlor. For this list, we focused on Berlin-based businesses that opened within the past five years or so. Know a cool business we missed? Let us know in the comments. FREE AppDownload
In the financial world, everyone loves to talk about "potential Black Swan events."  Societe Generale even releases a quarterly chart of "Black Swan" risks.  The concept of a "Black Swan" event takes its name from Nassim Taleb's 2007 book "The Black Swan." But there's a slight problem: acknowledging an event's possibility means it can't be a Black Swan. To wit, SocGen's most recent Swan chart says that further deterioration in the economic situation in Europe poses a risk to the market. And like, objectively, a European economy that performs poorly is bad for the market. But this also isn't a Black Swan. Or, can't be a Black Swan.  A Black Swan is an event or occurrence — a tail event, as Taleb would call it — that is so remote that it is completely unforeseen.  (In fairness, SocGen doesn't call these "potential Black Swans," simply calling this their "Swan Chart," but the "potential" phrase gets thrown around a lot, and a chart with pictures of black swans makes pretty clear what the firm is intimating.) The famous example Taleb uses in his book is the Thanksgiving turkey. "Consider a turkey that is fed every day," Taleb writes. "Every single feeding will firm up the bird's belief that it is the general rule of life to be fed every day by friendly members of the human race 'looking out for its best interests,' as a politician would say. "On the afternoon of the Wednesday before Thanksgiving, something unexpected will happen to the turkey. It will incur a revision of belief." Here's Taleb's famous chart.  Wikimedia Commons This is basically the book's entire message wrapped up in one graphic.  The problem that Taleb is really attacking in his book is forecasting, particularly economic forecasting, and the practice of using past events to predict the future.  Using inductive reasoning to forecast future events poses, for Taleb, not just something potentially useless or wrong, but something that actually has negative value.  "Consider that [the turkey's] feeling of safety reached its maximum when the risk was at the highest!" Taleb writes. "But the problem is even more general than that; it strikes at the nature of empirical knowledge itself. Something has worked in the past, until — well, it unexpectedly no longer does, and what we have learned from the past turns out to be at best irrelevant or false, at worst viciously misleading." And this is really what the problem of Black Swans is all about.  It isn't that we can't know the future, but that we delude ourselves into thinking we can, making forecasts about events that are inherently unforecastable and giving us false belief about what can or will or might happen in the future.  When a Black Swan event really occurs, it will seem outside what had previously seemed possible. But Taleb would likely argue that this event only seems outside previous beliefs about what was possible because of how we arrived at those possibilities.  Namely, by using the past to forecast the future.  Just something to keep in mind as you sit down to enjoy your turkey on Thursday. Or perhaps this will serve as fodder for light conversation with distant relatives this weekend. Either way. FREE AppDownload
Now that the Russian economy is tanking, Jim Rogers is diving in. "I'm bullish on Russia," he told Bloomberg's Mark Barton on Tuesday. "...Things are changing in the Kremlin, in my view. And so, therefore, I started investing," he said. Although Rogers said that he's been bearish on Russia "for 46 years," he actually expressed similar views on CNBC back in 2012. "I'm convinced things are changing in Russia for the first time," he said back then. And now in 2014, he seems to be advocating the same message. "The attitude [in Russia] used to be: just take the money away from them, shoot them, put them in jail, whatever it is. Bankrupt them if we don't like you. But that's changed. Somebody there realizes [that] you cannot treat foreigners, or foreign investors, or capital that way," Rogers told Bloomberg News. "The days of communism and the KGB is over," he added. "So they've started doing things differently. And so, I've started investing in Russia." Recently, the Russian economy has taken a serious beating. For starters, the ruble is now in free fall and near record lows, and inflation is way above target. Additionally, falling oil prices have put immense pressure on the economy.  And while most are worried about what's going on with Russia's economy, Rogers seems optimistic. "One reason I got involved with Russia... was because they had huge foreign currency reserves. And they don't have much debt. They have a convertible currency... I mean, Russia's astonishing once I got more and more looking into it," he said. "Russia's hated. In my view, wrongly so. And I hope this is all going to pass, and I'll make a lot of money," Rogers said. You can watch the whole interview here.   FREE AppDownload
We're finally seeing wage growth. Sort of. The change is so miniscule that you've got to squint. Here's how personal income looks in this morning's GDP report (full release here).  BEACompensation is going up, but wage growth from the second quarter got cut in half from the last GDP estimate, thanks to new numbers from the BLS's quarterly census of employment and wages. Here's the excerpt from the technical note:  In addition to presenting revised estimates for the third quarter, today's release also presents revised estimates of second-quarter wages and salaries, personal taxes, and contributions for government social insurance. Wages and salaries are now estimated to have increased $51.9 billion in the second quarter, a downward revision of $50.6 billion. These estimates reflect the most recently available wage and salary tabulations for the second quarter from the BLS quarterly census of employment and wages (QCEW). These data are more comprehensive than the monthly employment and earnings data that were used for the earlier estimates—the QCEW data include irregular pay, such as bonuses and gains from the exercise of stock options. It's probably not enough for the Fed to justify raising rates anytime soon. Then again, there's some evidence that some of this wage growth is going to the lowest rungs on the income ladder, which, coupled with falling gas prices, could have an outsize effect on consumption. And certainly two steps forward, one step back is better than no growth at all. FREE AppDownload
Of all the member nations of OPEC, Venezuela arguably is most in need of a rally in oil prices. An agreement to cut oil production would do the trick.  But OPEC members have reportedly indicated that it will not cut. This means Venezuela will most likely have to go it alone. The country will have to get through its economic free fall without the help of higher oil prices (which would boost the value of its massive oil exports), and it is going to be an incredibly difficult road. In the past year the country's inflation rate has grown to about 64%, its export basket has fallen over $30 to $68.97 (a four-year low), and currency reserves are at an all-time low. For the past month, Venezuelan bonds have been selling off at breakneck speed. Venezuela's foreign minister Rafael Ramirez told reporters earlier this month that the country was ready to cut oil production. The commodity makes up 95% of the Venezuela's export revenue. The country needs the average price of oil to sit at about $85 to pay for imports and keep up with its debt. It has been struggling with the former for some time. Household goods like toilet paper are scarce in the country, and shoppers wait in long lines for government supermarkets — even sometimes getting their arms marked with their spot in line. Pantheon Macroeconomics Earlier this month President Nicolas Maduro's regime reiterated that it would not devalue the Venezuelan bolivar. The rate between the black market bolivar to the dollar is already almost 120 to 1. Bond traders have said that they're "scared as hell" of what will happen to the country and that it is on one road with no exits — the road to default. All this said, oil prices alone won't save Venezuela. The country needs to take concrete policy action. However the Maduro regime is too busy shoring up support in the base, too busy squashing opposition and seeing phantom enemies everywhere, too busy constructing some ideological reasoning for the country's malaise, to enact any constructive policy to save its own people. It isn't OPEC's mandate to save Venezuela from itself, after all. FREE AppDownload
Applying hair product isn't that difficult — we promise. Though each product requires a different application method, that shouldn't worry you. We're here to take the mystery out of applying our recommended products of hair wax, pomade, and styling cream so you can style your own hair just like a pro. Reuters/Danny MoloshokRyan Reynolds looks like he applied hair wax to his locks.Applying hair wax is probably the most difficult of all the recommended products since it has the least amount of water. For that reason, it's recommended that you apply the product to damp, towel-dried hair so it's easier to massage in. First, scoop out a dime-sized amount with your index finger and spread it through your fingers by rubbing your hands together. Then massage it into your hair by running your fingers through it. Finally, manipulate your hair into the your desired style and allow your hair to dry. The freedom that hair wax allows is one of its best attributes. If a strong gust of wind puts your hair out of place, simply wet your fingers again and restyle at any point during the day.  s_bukley/ShutterstockJon Hamm's hair looks shiny and styled, probably thanks to pomade.Pomade is a different animal than hair wax and works better on dry hair. Applying pomade instead of hair wax will give you a shiny finish and superior hold for a classic "Mad Men"-style. Scoop a marble-sized amount of pomade and run it through your hands. Massage the pomade into your hair from root to tip. This is very important since you don't want the pomade to sit "on top" of your hair, but instead be equally distributed. Then, use a fine-toothed comb to style your hair into its desired position. ShutterstockAdrian Grenier's long and curly hair most likely benefitted from styling cream.Styling cream is the easiest product to use since it's very manageable in most hair types (and is especially useful for men with curly and/or longer hair). Applying it to damp hair works best, but dry hair can work well, too. Just dab a dime-sized drop of product onto your palms and rub them together. Then run your hands through your hair from back to front, making sure to cover your stands as evenly as possible. Use your fingers or a comb to style as desired. Find out which of these three hair products is best for you here. FREE AppDownload
Lee/Real Men Real Style Wearing dress shoes with jeans ... is that even possible? I’m here to tell you that it is. The key to pulling off this look seamlessly is to make sure that you abide by a few rules: Three dress shoe and jean rules, to be exact. There are a lot of different kinds of jeans out there. While all jeans are casual, there are some kinds that are dressier than others. Opt for the dressier variety. Distressed jeans, jeans with holes, and jeans with a lighter wash are all ultra-casual and will NEVER go well with dress shoes. Instead, opt for denim that fits well in the waist and the hips. Watch the length of the jeans and see to it that they are not too long and drag. Find jeans that have a more tapered fit at the bottom. Boot cut jeans will not work with dress shoes. Never go with a baggy fit but opt for a slim or regular cut. As for color ,you will not go wrong with dark indigo jeans or even a black pair. To give a quick recommendation, Lee’s salvaged denim dark indigo jeans are ideal. Real Men Real Style It may surprise you but colored denim – provided it is the right fit and length – can work with black or dark brown dress shoes. The main thing to make sure of is that there is enough contrast between the shoes and the jeans so they do not appear to match exactly. It’s not just the jeans that play a part in making sure that your whole ensemble works. It is equally important to be mindful of the dress shoes that you choose. When picking out dress shoes, select a pair that leans more on the casual side. Oxford shoes are great dress shoes but they are on the more formal end of the spectrum and will therefore not work with jeans. Real Men Real Style A better style to go with is the Blucher, Loafer or the Derby dress shoe style. The shape, construction and vamp placement of these shoes lend a more casual vibe than compared to Oxfords. Other options for shoes include monk straps, dessert boots, chukkas and slip-ons will work beautifully when paired with jeans. Even though you’re wearing jeans – the fact you’ve thrown in dress shoes as your foundation means you need to elevate the whole look. A t-shirt or sweatshirt just isn’t going to cut it. Balance out the look with a well-fitted collared button down or dress shirt. Keep your accessories simple. Consider completing your ensemble with a hat if you are confident that you can pull that off, and if wearing the above mentioned dress shirt consider a wool or woven necktie. Make sure that every element that you bring in to your ensemble matches with your chosen dress shoe. Warning: If you are a larger man be aware that dress shoes can make your feet appear smaller. Tread carefully with the dress shoe and jean combination especially if you have a bigger midsection. A solid solution would be to cover up the midsection with a beautifully cut sports jacket. This can bring balance back into the outfit and prevent you from appearing disproportionate. FREE AppDownload
Household debt rose to $11.71 trillion in the third quarter.  According to the New York Federal Reserve's latest Household Debt and Credit report, household debt in the third quarter rose 0.7%, or $78 billion, to $11.71 trillion, up from $11.62 trillion in the second quarter. Overall, household debt is below its $12.68 trillion peak reached in the third quarter of 2008. "Outstanding household debt, led by increases in auto loans, student loans and credit card balances, has steadily trended upward in recent quarters," said Wilbert van der Klaauw, senior vice president and economist at the New York Fed. "In light of these data, it appears that the deleveraging period has come to an end and households are borrowing more." Some of the report's highlights include: Here's what all that debt looks like. NY Fed FREE AppDownload
Traditional retailers are panicking about e-commerce competitors like Amazon. But some industries are much more vulnerable than others, according to a recent Morgan Stanley note.  The analysts point out that retailers need two qualities to survive the brick-and-mortar apocalypse.  1. Exclusive products that shoppers can't get anywhere else.  2. Customer service to help shoppers select the best option.  For example, Morgan Stanley analysts don't believe that home improvement stores like Home Depot and Lowe's are at risk from online competition because shoppers like to see these products in person and consult with customer service associates.  Retailers also need to adopt omni-channel capabilities, such as letting customers order online and pick up in stores, to succeed.  Upscale home store Williams-Sonoma is named as a winner because of its unique product selection and reputation for customer service.  And analysts believe Wal-Mart will continue to win because of its private-label products and low prices. The brand has also made huge progress in the online space.  Discount retailers like K-Mart, Ross Stores, and Family Dollar are the most vulnerable because they offer products that shoppers can find elsewhere, leading to little brand loyalty.  These brands have also been slow to adopt e-commerce.  Here's a chart showing which industries are most vulnerable to online retail.  Morgan Stanley  The results clearly show that discount retail is at-risk, while hardware and sporting goods stores are safe.  FREE AppDownload
FinVizOil prices had a wild ride on Tuesday. Crude oil prices were all over the place on Tuesday, but have fallen to $74, their lowest level of the day, in mid-afternoon trade. Earlier on Tuesday, oil prices were trading near $76.50 a barrel. Tuesday's decline marks a more than 2.3%, or $1.78, decline for oil. The volatility came as headlines crossed regarding discussions on potential production cuts between various oil ministers ahead of OPEC's Thursday meeting in Vienna.  Prices rebounded a bit off of their lows following a WSJ report that OPEC ministers were near an agreement on production cuts. The report from the Journal's Benoit Faucon, Summer Said, and Sarah Kent said that, "Saudi Arabia, the de facto leader of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, is likely to side with calls for the group to adhere more closely to its self-imposed production ceiling at Thursday’s meeting of OPEC oil ministers, according to a Gulf official familiar with the Saudi position." This report followed headlines from Reuters earlier on Tuesday that said Venezuela, Russia, Mexico, and Saudi Arabia will "monitor" oil prices for a year, but did not agree to any output cut. Reuters reported that Venezuela officials said a meeting with Saudi Arabian oil minister Ali Al-Naimi did not result in the agreement for any output cut. The parties agreed to meet again in three months. Mexico and Russia are not OPEC members. The Journal's report noted that OPEC agreed three years ago to a 30 million barrels per day production limit, though member nations have regularly exceeded this limit.  Both of these reports come just two days ahead of the latest OPEC meeting, which some in the market have expected would result in a production cut from the oil exporting cartel.  And as Business Insider's Linette Lopez reports, this news is particularly bad news for Venezuela, which has seen inflation go through the roof and currency reserves fall to an all-time low.  The declining price of oil will provide no relief to the South American nation, and perhaps make the situation worse for Venezuela, as the country needs oil to be around $85 a barrel in order to pay for imports and keep up with debt payments. Oil prices, which have slid more than 30% in the last several months, have been pressured by a global economic slowdown and a glut in supply, and many expected OPEC to announce an agreement on some sort of production cut to curb price declines. In recent days, oil prices had rallied a bit, with WTI moving from about $73.50 a nearly $77 a barrel, before resuming their decline on Tuesday. FREE AppDownload
Investors in Brazil have had the dubious pleasure of undergoing one of the more stomach-churning rides in 2014. In U.S.-dollar terms, Brazilian equities rallied roughly 40% from their spring lows through early September, before surrendering all of those gains following a disappointing election outcome. Although the sell-off of the past few months has pummeled valuations, bargain investors might be better off looking elsewhere for a more promising emerging-market opportunity. Here are the reasons why: Brazilian equities currently appear undervalued, but they have been cheaper before. The market is recently trading at about 10x price-to-earnings ratio and 1.20x price-to-book value, making valuations low, but we have seen lower prices in early 2003. On a relative basis, while Brazilian equities now trade at a 15% discount to other emerging markets, this is still above their long-term trend. Over the past 15 years, the discount was typically around 22% and swelled to 35% in the summer of 2013. Bad fundamentals. Even with inexpensive equity valuations, I believe fundamentals don’t support a value play. Corporate profitability for Brazilian companies is below its long-term average and that of other emerging market companies (return on equity of 8% vs. 12% for the broader EM universe). Equally problematic, Brazil’s economy is struggling under the double weight of sluggish growth and relatively high inflation. Growth for 2015 is expected to be around 1% (growth peaked at over 7.5% in 2010), while inflation is expected to remain stubbornly high at 6.3%, just below the upper-end of the central bank’s target. The problem: Brazil suffers from a combination of poor infrastructure and declining demand for commodities. Mediocre prospects for reform. The equity market rally in the spring and summer was predicated on investor optimism for a change in government. Hopes of policy changes were shed when President Dilma Rousseff was re-elected in late October. Adding to the gloom: the delay on the nomination of the next finance minister (signaling difficulties in attracting reputable figures) and a significant corruption scandal surrounding the state-controlled oil producer Petrobras. Negative momentum and sentiment. From a top-down perspective, momentum continues to look negative going into 2015. Global investors are favoring other parts of the EM space, notably Asia, and local investors prefer bonds as short -term interest rates are over 11%, some of the highest rates in the world. That said, while we look for equity opportunities in other parts of emerging markets, investors may want to give Brazil’s fixed-income markets a second look. To the extent that the government has already expressed that that it will strive to maintain an investment grade credit rating, fiscal austerity will likely trump growth in the short term. In addition, Brazil has one of the lowest debt to gross domestic product ratios (approximately 19%) and one of the largest foreign currency reserves balance (about USD 370 billion) in emerging markets. Thus, Brazilian sovereign bonds in local currency with rates at 13% and above seem particularly attractive in a yield hungry world, with an important number of the key risks already reflected in the price. FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ Steve MarcusPhil Falcone.Philip Falcone has called it quits.  Falcone has resigned as the CEO and chairman of Harbinger Group, a publicly traded holding company. The company said in a news release that Falcone would receive a $20.5 million one-time payment along with a $16.5 million bonus for 2014. He will also get a pro-rata bonus of $3.3 million for 2015. Falcone rose to prominence shorting subprime mortgages during the financial crisis. The trade made a billionaire. In summer 2012, the SEC charged Falcone and his hedge fund Harbinger Capital Partners with securities fraud. Falcone and Harbinger Capital eventually admitted to wrongdoing. In 2013, Falcone reached an agreement with the Securities and Exchange Commission to be barred from the securities industry for at least five years. He also agreed to pay an $18 million penalty.  Bloomberg Businessweek reports that he is leaving Harbinger Group to focus more on his hedge fund. Here's the release:  NEW YORK, Nov. 25, 2014 /PRNewswire/ -- Harbinger Group Inc. ("HGI" or the "Company"; NYSE: HRG) today announced that Philip Falcone, HGI's Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the board of directors (the "Board") will, effective December 1, 2014, resign from his positions with the Company. Joseph S. Steinberg, an independent member of the Board, will become Chairman of the Board.  HGI will name a Chief Executive Officer upon the completion of a search process. Mr. Steinberg, the incoming Board Chairman, commented that, "During Mr. Falcone's tenure as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, the Company experienced significant growth and success, beginning as a company with approximately $140 million market capitalization in 2009 rising to today's market capitalization of approximately $2.6 billion. We thank Phil for his many years of hard work and leading HGI."  Simultaneously with Mr. Falcone's resignation, Mr. Keith Hladek, an HGI director, will also resign from the Board.  Mr. Falcone and Mr. Hladek are expected to dedicate their efforts to HC2 Holdings, Inc. and Harbinger Capital Partners, LLC. In connection with his resignation, the Company will pay Mr. Falcone a lump sum payment consisting of $20,500,000 one-time payment, $16,500,000 in respect of Mr. Falcone's previously earned and awarded annual bonus for fiscal year 2014 and $3,300,000 as a pro-rata bonus for fiscal year 2015.  In addition, the warrants to acquire common stock of HGI that were previously awarded to Mr. Falcone will continue to vest in accordance with their existing vesting schedule. FREE AppDownload
Massachusetts Office Of Travel / Flickr Former college students now have an average of $30,000 in student-loan debt.This post is sponsored by Citizens Bank. After college, we have some great memories, along with a few regrets, like picking the wrong major or not dumping that messy roommate sooner. But on a larger level, you may also end up regretting the way you paid for college, especially if you're still mired in debt from your student loans. According to Citizens Bank's nationwide INFORMED Index study, anxiety about student loan debt begins before graduation, and more than 77% of former college students between the ages of 18 and 40 wish they had planned better about paying down their student debt. Only 15% of former students and 23% of current students say they had detailed conversations with their parents. However, parents are more likely to believe that those detailed conversations took place (46%). It's clear that student debt has evolved into a widespread problem for many Americans. Former college students have an average of $30,000 in student-loan debt, and many don't know how to handle it. In fact, more than half say that student loan debt limits day-to-day activities such as travel, shopping, and dining out.  "Despite the well-documented long-term value of a college degree, too many Americans continue to struggle with paying for the rapidly increasing cost well after they have graduated," says Brendan Coughlin, president of education and auto finance for Citizens Financial Group. Citizens Bank's INFORMED Index study dug deeper into the issue. They surveyed 1,562 current students, former students, and parents nationwide about their experiences with student loans and knowledge of refinancing as a solution. While only 8% of former students reported refinancing their student loans, nine in 10 of those who refinanced said they benefited from it and would recommend it to others. Refinancing is, essentially, the option to consolidate federal or private student loans into a single monthly loan payment at a lower rate, which could save thousands of dollars on interest. In an effort to help current and former students better handle their student debt, Citizens compiled the results and responses from the study, along with real-world advice from current and former students, to create an online resource for anyone facing student debt.  There is even a tool to estimate how much someone could save through refinancing based on his or her current situation. Citizens Bank Citizens also offers its own refinancing solution, the Education Refinance Loan, which allows those with student debt to refinance their private and federal student loans into one new loan at current market rates. Customers can pick from a fixed-rate or variable-rate loan, both with flexible repayment terms, without the hassle of an application fee. So far, private student loan borrowers have saved an average of $127 a month. "With refinancing now broadly available for both federal student loans and private student loans," says Coughlin, "we are committed to helping our customers better manage this phase of their financial lives." Learn more about managing student debt. Find out more about Sponsored Content. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonWarren Buffett, America's second-richest man.Sure, we all know that an Ivy League education, stint at a blue-chip firm, and stellar sales skills can help us get ahead. But it may surprise you just how many lesser known, seemingly random variables contribute to your professional success.  From the month you were born to your comedic timing, the weirdest quirks can affect how successful you'll ultimately be. We combed through research on success to identify 12 surprising things that can influence your career trajectory. While some factors can be sought out, others are beyond your control. This is an update of an article written by Alison Griswold. FREE AppDownload
It’s not just a function of wallet size.  Most men are happy to receive the things we feel guilty about buying or are too lazy to buy for ourselves… But of course, what we really want are the things we didn’t even know we wanted. Last year’s list, which included a Tesla for the lake ($120,000), fossilized Triceratops skull ($200,000), backgammon set ($5,000), and the greatest Christmas movie of all time ($20), is worth revisiting; there’s no expiration date on great ideas.  John LeFevre is the creator of the @GSElevator Twitter feed and the author of the soon-to-be-released Straight To Hell: True Tales of Deviance, Debauchery, and Billion-Dollar Deals.   FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Kevork Djansezian/ReutersConsumer confidence unexpectedly fell in November. The Conference Board's latest consumer confidence reading came in at 88.7, down sharply from October. Expectations were for the reading to come in at 96, up from 94.5 last month.  The reading's expectations component also fell sharply, to 87.0 from 93.8 in October. October's 94.5 was a seven-year high for the index. Lynn Franco, director of economic indicators at Conference Board said, "Consumer confidence retreated in November, primarily due to reduced optimism in the short-term outlook. Consumers were somewhat less positive about current business conditions and the present state of the job market; moreover, their optimism in the short-term outlook in both areas has waned." And according to Reuters' Jamie McGeever, all 73 economists polled by Reuters were way off Tuesday's confidence reading, with the range of estimates coming in between 92 and 98.8.  In a note to clients following the report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro said Tuesday's report was disappointing, but said to expect a rebound next month.  "We are inclined to see it as a lagged response to the drop in stock prices in October, which has since more than reversed, while gas prices have fallen further," Shepherdson said. "Most of the hit was in the expectations component, which is very sensitive to gas and stock prices; it fell 6.8 points, reversing a 7.4-point October jump. We expect a rebound in December and further gains early next year." FREE AppDownload
Yale professor and Nobel laureate Robert Shiller is still in the stock market. In an appearance on CNBC following the release of the latest S&amp;P/Case-Shiller home price index, Shiller discussed not only the latest housing report, but his views on the stock market. "I'm still in the market," Shiller told CNBC. "I think it's still reasonable to have exposure to the stock market. Not excessive exposure because it does look kind of pricey, but you've got to put your money somewhere." Over the weekend, Business Insider's Henry Blodget wrote about the Shiller CAPE ratio, a stock market valuation measure, noting that though the measure is historically high and doesn't portend good returns from stocks going forward, there isn't a lot else to do with your money right now. (Note: Blodget also said he wasn't selling stocks.) In his comments on CNBC on Tuesday, Shiller echoed a similar sentiment, and added that while he's in the market, he isn't owning stocks "enthusiastically." On the housing market, the Case-Shiller report showed that month-on-month, home prices rose in September for the first time since April, with year-over-year prices rising 4.9%.  Shiller said that housing, "isn't an exciting investment" as home prices are rising, but not at the rate previously seen, though in this environment with rates low and returns hard to come by, housing looks more attractive.  Shiller noted that the futures market is expecting a 10% increase in home prices over the next two years, and an increase of 5%/year looks reasonable to Shiller. And while expectations for home price increases are well below the 12% they were ahead of the housing crisis, Shiller said that expectations are starting to come up a little.  FREE AppDownload
SIPRIThe current difficulties surrounding France's sale of two Mistral-class helicopter carriers to Russia mark another awkward chapter in the country's history of arms sales. France currently ranks fifth among the world's largest arms exporting nations, according to the independent Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI). The country accounted for 4% of global exports between 2009-2013, down from 9% between 2004-2008, placing it behind only the US, Russia, Germany and China. Although France is by no means the only country to have a checkered history with regards to arms exports, it nevertheless has made some significant missteps in recent history. And the memory of these might help explain, at least in part, the French government's hesitation over handing over the first of the Mistral warships to Russia while the crisis in Ukraine rumbles on. Here are a few of France's least-proud moments. The sale of Exocet missiles to Argentina Wiki CommonsAn Exocet anti-ship missile.In the early 1980s the French-built anti-ship Exocet missile, which skims over the water at a height of 1-2 metres, making it hard to detect by radar and difficult to hit with conventional arms, was much in demand. According to reports it had been ordered by 25 nations, including Iraq, Peru, Pakistan and Syria as well as Argentina's military junta that had seized power in a 1976 coup. By 1982 France had supplied five of these missiles to the country. Then on April 2, 1982, Argentine forces invaded the Falkland Islands, which had been held by Britain for 150 years, beginning the Falklands War. France's then President Francois Mitterrand responded to the invasion by declaring an embargo on any further French arms sales and assistance to Argentina (although later reports suggested a French technical team remained in the country to ensure that the weapon system was in working order). But the presence of the Exocet missiles remained a major concern for British military commanders. Their fears proved well-founded. On May 4th one of the Exocets hit the British destroyer HMS Sheffield, killing 20 of her crew and sinking the ship.  The sale of Mirage F-1s and the 'lease' of five Super Étendard jets to Iraq before the Iran-Iraq War The sinking of the Sheffield was a high-profile demonstration of the Exocet system's effectiveness, and may actually have boosted demand for the missiles. One customer in particular took a keen interest in acquiring them — Iraq. As Dr Pierre Razoux, senior research adviser at the NATO Defense College in Rome, writes in his 2013 essay "France's involvement in the Iran-Iraq War": The Iraqi leadership regarded the aircraft as the ideal weapons system to launch an effective attack on the Iranian terminal in Kharg and oil traffic to Iran. The Dassault company...offered to sell the Iraqis twenty-four of the Mirage F-1 fighters that had been upgraded to carry and fire two Exocet missiles each...In the meantime, the French government agreed to 'lease' Iraq five Super Étendard fighters from its own naval inventory. Unfortunately the deal rocked the already delicate relations between Iraq and its neighbour Iran, with the Iranian leadership indicating that it would amount to a casus belli if the planes were delivered. Undeterred, the French government pressed on launching "Operation Sugar", whereby five French fighter pilots employed by the Dassault company equipped with false passports secretly flew the five jets to the Qayarah West base in northern Iraq, according to Razoux. The flight included having to refuel on a French aircraft carrier based off Cyprus and a brief stop-off in Turkey before flying along the Turkey-Syria border at low altitude to avoid Syrian radar. Whether the delivery was spotted or not by Iran remains unknown, but two weeks after their delivery a truck bomb hit a building in the Lebanese capital Beirut where a contingent of French paratroopers were stationed. The French authorities believed the attacks were ordered by Iran. Over the next few years France delivered 29 Mirage F-1s to Baghdad in deals that were worth as much as $500 million, some of which was paid for with crude oil according to the US Library of Congress. While French aircraft were used extensively in the 1984 tanker wars between Iraq and Iran, these same aircraft became a major problem only three years later. Wiki CommonsUSS Stark after it was hit by two Exocet missiles.On the night of May 17, 1987, the USS Stark was hit by two Exocet missiles fired by an Iraqi F-1 Mirage jet. In the words of a US Navy report the attack was "unprovoked and indiscriminate", as the Stark was in international waters at the time. It resulted in the death of 28 crew members, although the ship itself was rescued after its crew fought a blaze that lasted for 24 hours. Arms deals with Libya between 2004 and 2009 In October 2004, the European Union ended 11 years of sanctions against Libya. In particular, the deal included easing an arms embargo in exchange for a commitment from the Gaddafi government to give up the development of weapons of mass destruction. That deal paved the way for European arms dealers to rekindle their relationship with the country. And so they did. Between 2004-2009 the EU granted export licenses for €834.5m worth of arms and ammunition to the former Italian colony. The vast majority of this was provided by Italy, Germany, the UK and, of course, France. Europa/Business InsiderTotal arms sales to Libya between 2004-2009.Perhaps unsurprisingly considering their shared history, Italy was the largest provider of arms to Tripoli in the five years after the end of the embargo, selling around €277 million worth to the country. However, France came a close second with just over €210 million worth of military exports. Once again France's hold on the military jet market was in evidence, with the country securing €126 million worth of contracts with Libya pipping Italy as the largest supplier of planes over the period. Furthermore, it was also the largest supplier of bombs, rockets and missiles to the former pariah state. Indeed in 2008, France sold just shy of €9 million worth of munitions to Gaddafi. Europa Three years later the West, with France among the leading protagonists, was drawn to intervene in Libya as the country descended into a brief but bloody civil war that saw forces loyal to Gaddafi fire into residential neighbourhoods. Although there is no suggestion that any of the countries that supplied arms to the country could reasonably have known what would transpire, it was a stark reminder of the risks inherent in these types of deals with potentially unstable states. As the charts above show, France is far from the only country that has seen arms deals come back to bite it. Yet with all of these awkward historical examples, it is perhaps no surprise that French President François Hollande has proven reluctant to OK the sale of the Mistral ships while the situation in Ukraine remains so unstable. This will be of particular concern since the second of the two ships, the Sevastopol, is due to join up with the Russian Black Sea fleet based in the (recently annexed) Crimean port of the same name. With both sides in the Ukraine conflict seemingly unable or unwilling to stick to a ceasefire deal, Russia may well be waiting a long time yet on its order. FREE AppDownload
ReutersDuncan Mac Naughton(Reuters) - Wal-Mart Stores Inc's  Chief Merchandising Officer Duncan Mac Naughton is expected to announce his departure from the world's largest retailer just days before Black Friday, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing people familiar with the matter. Mac Naughton joined the company in 2009 as chief merchandising officer of Wal-Mart Canada and moved over to the merchandising operations at the U.S. business in 2010, the Journal said. (http://on.wsj.com/1vI2rtA) Representatives at Walmart did not immediately respond to an email seeking comment outside regular business hours.  (Reporting By Neha Dimri in Bangalore; Editing by Gopakumar Warrier) FREE AppDownload
Business InsiderApple CEO Tim Cook should be smiling. The stock has more than doubled since he became CEO.Apple's market cap passed $700 billion shortly after trading opened Tuesday morning. The stock was trading at about $119 and climbing. The market cap was about $701 billion. Apple's stock has been on a steady rise all year, and it's only been fueled by the wildly successful iPhone 6 and 6 Plus launch. Apple posted record opening weekend sales for the new iPhones in September. And this holiday quarter is expected to be massive, with one analyst, Ming-Chi Kuo, predicting the company will sell over 70 million units. The stock has been hitting record highs off and on for the last few days. The stock price is also up 10x since 2009 and has more than doubled since CEO Tim Cook took over in August 2011 when Steve Jobs stepped down. Take a look at the rise over the last year: Yahoo Finance FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA worker restocks Campbell's soup cans inside a Fresh & Easy store in Burbank(Reuters) - Campbell Soup Co  reported a better-than-expected quarterly profit as soup sales in the United States rose for only the second time in five quarters. Sales in the company's U.S. simple meals business, which includes soups, pasta and canned chicken, rose 8 percent to $928 million in the first quarter ended Nov. 2. The business is Campbell's largest and accounted for a third of total net sales last year. But the soup business has been facing increasing competition from store brands and niche producers such as Pacific of Oregon, Harris Foods Co and Amy's Kitchen Inc. "Our U.S. soup performance was driven by a stronger seasonal sell-in and the timing of our quarter end relative to the Thanksgiving holiday," Chief Executive Denise Morrison said in a statement. U.S. soup sales rose 6 percent after shrinking 6 percent in the same quarter last year and 3 percent in the fourth quarter. Sales in the global baked goods and snacks business, which includes brands such as Pepperidge Farm and Arnott's biscuits in Australia, grew 3 percent to $627 million. The company trimmed the lower end of its full-year sales and profit forecast, citing volatile foreign currency rates. Campbell Soups said it now expected adjusted earnings of $2.42-$2.50 per share, down from its previous forecast of $2.45 -$2.50 for the year ending July 2015. Sales are expected to be flat or grow up to 2 percent, down from its earlier forecast of 1-2 percent growth. Net income attributable to the company jumped 36 percent to $234 million, or 74 cents per share, in the latest quarter, from $172 million, or 54 cents per share, a year earlier. The year-earlier quarter included a loss of 3 cents per share from discontinued operations. Excluding items, the company earned 74 cents per share from continuing operations. Net sales rose 4.2 percent to $2.26 billion. Analysts on average had expected earnings of 72 cents per share on revenue of $2.22 billion, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. Campbell shares were up marginally $44.75 in light premarket trading.  (Reporting by Sruthi Ramakrishnan and Anjali Athavaley; Editing by Maju Samuel) FREE AppDownload
BEIJING (Reuters) - China's central bank will wait until fourth-quarter economic data is out and monitor U.S. and Japanese monetary policy before considering any more rate cuts or easing, a central bank adviser said on Tuesday. The People's Bank of China surprised the markets by cutting rates last Friday for the first time in more than two years to help stabilize the world's second-largest economy. Reuters then reported that China was prepared to ease policy again. "Regarding the next step, whether to cut rates again or take similar action, we still need to look at the fourth quarter's macroeconomic index," said Chen Yulu, who sits on the central bank's monetary policy committee. He was speaking on the sidelines of an economy and finance forum in Beijing. "It is also important to make decisions taking into account Japanese and U.S. monetary policy," Chen said. He added that he didn't believe that Friday's benchmark lending rate cuts represented a change in monetary policy, echoing the central bank line. Prior to Friday's moves, Beijing and the central bank had persisted with modest stimulus measures. Reuters reported that the country's leadership and central bank were prepared to cut rates again and loosen lending restrictions on concerns that falling prices could trigger a surge in debt defaults, business failures and job losses, according to sources involved in policy-making. Economic growth slowed to 7.3 percent in the third quarter and policymakers feared it was on the verge of dipping below 7 percent - a rate not seen since the global financial crisis. Producer prices, charged at the factory gate, have been falling for almost three years, piling pressure on manufacturers, and consumer inflation is also weak. Earlier on Tuesday, the central bank cut the yield for a key short-term money rate for the fourth time this year as regulators step up efforts to reduce funding pressure on Chinese companies.               (Reporting by Jake Spring and Beijing Newsroom; Writing by Paul Carsten; Editing by Hugh Lawson) FREE AppDownload
FLICKR/Linh_RomDavid Woo, Bank of America Merill Lynch’s well-respected FX and rates strategist is out with his top trades for 2015. Because of the markets he covers, some of the trades are very nuanced. The 5 themes he highlights as the key drivers have a much broader, macro impact across a wide range of markets, from stocks to bonds, commodities and foreign exchange. The Fed, having exited QE, will be relying more on forward guidance in 2015. However, with the market already pricing an extremely slow tightening cycle and term premium at low levels, the scope of easing through forward guidance may be limited. If we are right that the impact of the end of Fed QE has yet to be felt fully, then the ECB, the BoJ, and possibly other central banks may have to ease more to compensate. This should be bullish for the USD (we are looking for EUR/USD and USD/JPY to reach 1.20 and 123 by end-2105) and bullish for European and Japanese rates (we expect 5y German bond yields to fall to 0%). BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research The consensus is that global growth will accelerate in 2015. Forecasters are looking for even the Eurozone to grow faster next year. The only exception is China – Wall Street economists expect Chinese growth to moderate further to 7%. What is clear is that the USD will be the prime beneficiary of a continued Chinese slowdown. US exports to China are only 1% of US GDP, versus 3% for Germany, 4% for Japan, and 6% for Australia. The key lesson for us in 2014 is that the USD can rally without higher US rates, but a higher USD can cap upside of US rates. Another lesson is that US rates are increasingly driven by global factors. These lessons tell us that for the USD to do well, all we need is for the US to do better than other countries. However, for US rates to go up, we need the other countries to do well too. If we learned anything at all in 2014 about investing, it is that the right trade, when it is crowded, often becomes the wrong trade. In other words, it sometimes pays to take the other side when positioning becomes too one-way. Identifying when a trend has gone too far and is set to reverse is not easy, but this is why understanding value and valuation has never been more important. Understanding positioning has never been more crucial as lower dealer risk appetite means markets are more prone to overshooting. Year-to-date, Brent crude prices have declined nearly 30%. Without a significant recovery in the next month, this would be the second largest annual sell-off in 15 years (only behind 2008). A big decline in oil prices two years in a row is rare. In the past 25 years, this only happened once (1997-1998). Our commodity team believes oil prices will rebound next year, after production adjustment by OPEC and with lower prices shutting out marginal producers. In general, we expect oil price volatility to be a key driver of volatility in the rates and FX markets in 2015. We believe the outlook for oil prices will have particularly profound impact on the US decoupling thesis and therefore the overall direction of the USD Best directional trades:Selling AUD/USD spot (spot reference 0.8710), targeting 0.78 with a 0.90 stop. Pay 5y US swap rates versus 5y offshore China swap rates at 119bp, targeting60bp with a stop at 145bp. Best European trades:Receive Eonia 1y one year forward (entry -4 bp) with a -15 bp target and stop at0bp. Sell CHF/NOK (spot reference 7.00) with a target at 6.25 and a 7.42 stop loss. Best Vol trade:Buy 1y-6m one-touch put spread in EUR/USD struck at 1.18 for 14.5% (spotreference 1.2425). Best inflation trade:Buy 30y US inflation versus 30y Euro inflation in swaps at a spread of +49bp,targeting +80bp with a stop at 35bp. Best contrarian trade:Sell 3m USD/JPY ¥125 one-touch option to finance buying a 6m ¥125 one-touchoption in U$10m/U$13m ratio payout (spot reference 117.80). Best regulation trade:Buy $200mm T 0.625% 11/15/16 vs paying in matched-maturity swaps. Entry17.5bp, target 28bp with a stop at 12bp. Best relative value trade:Buy 3y Portugal and 10y Bunds and sell 10y Spain (55%, 83% and -100%),targeting 115bp, with a stop at 93bp. Best tail risk trade:1y USDCAD 1.27 digital call for 10.25% (spot reference 1.13) This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike BlakeSingle family homes for sale are seen in San MarcosHome prices rose month-on-month in September for the first time since April. The latest S&amp;P/Case-Shiller home price index showed home prices rose 0.34% in September, roughly in-line with expectations for a 0.3% increase. Year-over-year, home prices rose 4.9%, better than the 4.6% that was expected but down from the last report's 5.6% increase. These gains, however, still show what the release called a "broad-based slowdown for home prices." As of September, the average home price for the 20-city Case-Shiller index is back to levels seen in the fall of 2004, and still about 15% below the 2006 peak. On a month-on-month basis, 9 of the 20 cities in the 20-city composite index saw lower monthly figures while 9 posted increases. Prices in LA and New York were flat. Washington DC saw a 0.4% decline, the largest of all 20 cities.  Following the report, Zillow chief economist Stan Humphries said, "The days of double-digit home value appreciation continue to rapidly fade away as more inventory comes on line, and the market is becoming more balanced between buyers and sellers." Humphries added that, "This slowdown is a critical step on the road back to a normal housing market, and as we approach the end of 2014, the housing market has plenty to be thankful for." This chart from S&amp;P shows the current levels for the Case-Shiller report. S&P FREE AppDownload
Societe Generale is out with its latest quarterly chart of "swan" risks. "Black swan" events are those that have a low chance of actually occurring, but could seriously rock the economy and the markets if they do occur. Although China hard landing is still a significant downside risk, it's no longer the biggest one. Now, with a probability of 30%, the further eurozone area deterioration is what has the potential to really upset the markets, according to SocGen. "Geopolitical risks are numerous; the most significant risk at the current picture for financial markets is the Russia-Ukraine crisis," according to the report. The biggest upside risk, according to SocGen, is a lift from even lower oil prices. But it could also pose a threat: "While a lower oil price is an upside risk to growth, on the flipside it may intensify some of the geopolitical stress. We place a 40% probability on oil prices shifting to a new low to average $70/b in 2015. Much will depend on OPEC... and the next meeting is on 27 November," according to SocGen. Check out all the swans below. Societe Generale
FLICKR/Arthur ChapmanSoc Gen’s Cross Asset Research Team is out with the excellent quarterly Global Economic Outlook, which features their famous black swan chart of major market risks. Now of course, by their nature, black swans are not predictable but what is important in the Soc Gen analysis is the risks that they see as being potentially destabilising, in both directions, to the current market paradigm. So in many ways it’s not what’s on the list, it’s the changes to the list or importance of the list, which highlights the key risks to the markets working assumptions. To that end Soc Gen is worried about Europe, and specifically that the ECB itself, can not dig its way out of the mire. And also that Europe, along with Japan, is “seeking to export deflationary pressure through an expansionary monetary policy also targeting currency weakness.” Soc Gen is also worried about the ongoing court case on the OMT and important elections across the Eurozone in 2015, which will “slow the reform agenda” and leave the ECB on its own. It means that just like 2010 Europe could be front and centre once again in 2015. Societe Generale This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
DonkeyHotey | Flickr The first revision to third-quarter GDP showed that the US economy grew at an annualized rate of 3.9% during the quarter. Expectations were for the headline GDP number to fall slightly, to 3.3% from the initial 3.5% reading. That initial reading also topped Wall Street estimates. According to the latest release from the Bureau of Economic Analysis: "With the second estimate for the third quarter, private inventory investment decreased less than previously estimated, and both personal consumption expenditures (PCE) and nonresidential fixed investment increased more. In contrast, exports increased less than previously estimated." Following the report, Ian Shepherdson, chief economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics, said, "In one line: Surprising, welcome, and probably not (entirely) sustainable."  Meanwhile, Deutsche Bank economist Joe LaVorgna on Twitter said the inventory-to-sales ratio bode well for future production. He also expected fourth-quarter GDP to come in at 4.2%. The inventory to sales ratio remains near a record all-time low which bodes well for future production.  A smaller trade deficit is one reason why we project current quarter real #GDP growth at 4.2%   In the third quarter, personal consumption expenditures, or PCE — a measure of inflation — rose 2.2%. Expectations were for PCE to show a 1.9% increase in the third quarter. On a quarter-on-quarter basis, PCE rose 0.4% in Q3.  Some of the standout numbers from the report include a 16% increase in defense spending during the quarter, and overall government consumption expenditures and gross investment rose 9.9% in the quarter. Nonresidential fixed investment rose 7.1% in the third quarter, with equipment investment rising 10.7% and investments in intellectual property rising 6.4%.  Here's the table showing the breakdown of the third quarter. BEA FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Eduardo MunozThe world is rapidly changing, and investors would be well-advised to position their portfolios for key long-term themes. We recently published The US 20, chronicling 20 trends that will shape America for decades. Today, we present our global edition. Among the main themes: the shifts in emerging markets, the ravages left on European society from the continent's catastrophic economic downturn, and new security challenges from stuff we're all used to taking for granted, like water and safe computer access. Check it out. 
Oil Market Intelligence/ Ed YardeniConsumers should be thankful for the plunge in oil prices since the summer. The price of a barrel of Brent crude oil peaked this year at $115.15 on June 19. It is down 31% to $79.43 since then. The futures price of a gallon of gasoline is down 34% over this same period. This decline saves consumers about $150 billion at an annual rate at the pump--just in time for the holiday shopping season. There could be even more windfalls at the pump ahead for consumers.  Most of the oil price decline occurred after Saudi Aramco started a price war on October 1 for all its exports, reducing those bound for Asia to the lowest level since 2008. Bloomberg reported: “The move suggests that the biggest member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries is prepared to let prices fall rather than cede market share by paring output to clear a supply surplus...  “Saudi Arabia has acted in the past to stop a plunge in prices. It made the biggest contribution to OPEC’s production cuts of almost 5 million barrels a day in 2008 and 2009 as demand contracted amid the financial crisis. The kingdom would need to reduce output about 500,000 barrels a day to eliminate the supply glut now stemming from the highest U.S. output in three decades ...”  Iran's semi-official news agency Mehr reported on Sunday that ministers from Iran will seek an output cut from Saudi Arabia at Thursday’s meeting of OPEC. Yesterday, Reuters reported, “Oil prices could plunge to $60 a barrel if OPEC does not agree on a significant output cut when it meets in Vienna this week, market players say.” OPEC probably needs to slash production by at least 1.0mbd to stabilize prices. That’s not likely to happen. Let’s review October’s Oil Market Intelligence (OMI) data on global crude oil supply and demand:  (1) Supply. World crude oil production soared to a record 93.0mbd during October. That’s up 3.3mbd in just the past five months! Over this period, non-OPEC output is up 2.0mbd, while OPEC output is up 1.3mbd. Furthermore, over this five-month period, the combined oil production of the US and Canada rose 0.9mbd to a record 12.7mbd, well exceeding that of both Saudi Arabia (9.6mbd) and Russia (10.6mbd).  (2) Demand. World crude oil demand rose to a record 92.8mbd during October. However, the growth rate slowed to 0.8% y/y, the slowest since May 2012. That slowdown is attributable to the advanced economies of the 34 members of the OECD. Their oil demand growth rate has been slightly negative for the past six months. Oil Market Intelligence/Ed Yardeni  Today's Morning Briefing: Thanksgiving. (1) Counting our blessings. (2) The Ackerman bull market. (3) From 666 to 2063. (4) Da Vinci Code. (5) EMU hasn’t disintegrated so far. (6) Fully invested bears and the Endgame. (7) Muddling along beats the alternatives. (8) The importance of stock buybacks. (9) No double-dips or fiscal cliffs for the US. (10) Secular bull vs. melt-up. (11) OPEC’s holiday gift to consumers. (12) Global oil supply soars as demand growth weakens. (13) Focus on market-weight-rated S&amp;P 500 Energy. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersRosneft Chief Executive Officer Sechin speaks during the Japan-Russia investment forum in TokyoVIENNA (Reuters) - Russia's most powerful oil official, Igor Sechin, was due in Vienna on Tuesday for talks with OPEC members as the group's leader Saudi Arabia kept the market guessing about its response to flagging oil prices. Sechin, the head of state oil company Rosneft &lt;rosn.mm&gt; and a close ally of Russian President Vladimir Putin, is expected to meet OPEC officials amid hints from Moscow that Russia could cut output or exports if the producer group does the same. Oil prices have fallen 30 percent since June to around $80 per barrel as a global oil glut has built up on the back of a U.S. shale boom and lower global demand because of slower economic growth in China and Europe. Current prices are far below what most OPEC members and rival producers such as Russia need to balance their budgets. Oil market watchers are divided on the outcome of OPEC's meeting this Thursday in the Austrian capital. Predictions range from a large production cut to revive prices, to a small reduction, or none at all. Some analysts say an OPEC cut of as much as 1.5 million barrels per day (bpd) is needed to support oil prices and avoid a glut aggravating in the first half of 2015. However, Saudi Arabia has kept the market guessing in recent weeks about its intentions. Diplomatic and market sources say Saudi officials told briefings in recent months that the kingdom, with its large currency reserves, was prepared to withstand oil prices as low as $70-$80 per barrel for up to a year. When Saudi Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi spoke earlier this month after weeks of silence, he said Riyadh's desire for stable markets had not changed but gave no clue about his potential response. "Although the objectives of the cartel are unclear today, what is apparent is that investors and companies are being shocked out of the $100 per barrel oil comfort range of the last four years and that volatility looks set to remain a feature in 2015," analysts from Barclays wrote on Tuesday. In Vienna on Monday and Tuesday, Naimi brushed off reporters' questions about oil prices and surplus supplies. "This is not the first time the market is oversupplied," he said. The fact that Naimi arrived three days before Thursday's meeting indicates he is gearing up for long talks with fellow ministers and possibly Sechin, who has been targeted by U.S. sanctions over Russia's actions in Ukraine. The delegations of Venezuela and Iran, usually seen as price hawks, have asked to meet Naimi on Tuesday, an OPEC source said. APPutin with Igor Sechin (right)Russia's Kommersant newspaper cited sources on Monday as saying Russia might suggest cutting its oil production by around 300,000 bpd from next year and that Moscow expected OPEC to limit its output by another 1.4 million bpd. If Russia were to agree to cut production, it would effectively side with OPEC hawks, which have been putting pressure on Saudi Arabia to reduce supplies. Moscow's relations with OPEC were soured by the country's pledge to cut output in tandem with the group in the early 2000s -- Russia failed to follow through, and raised exports instead. Analysts are sceptical Moscow can offer anything significant this time. "Russia’s overtures to OPEC ... are not particularly credible," analysts from Commerzbank said, adding that Western sanctions on Russia made it difficult for the country to increase output anyway. Iranian news agency Shana said Putin and Iranian President Hassan Rouhani spoke by telephone on Monday evening and agreed "on necessary cooperation in favour of oil markets". The agency did not say where it acquired the information. On Monday, the Kremlin said the presidents discussed Iranian nuclear talks and bilateral issues and made no mention of oil. [ID:nL6N0TD0KF] On Monday, Iran and six world powers agreed to yet another extension in the talks aimed at resolving a 12-year-old dispute over Tehran's nuclear programme until June 30, 2015. That made very unlikely any quick revival in Iran's oil exports and removed a potential layer of complication to this week's OPEC meeting. [ID:nL2N0TE1BJ] Ratings agency Fitch said on Tuesday lower oil prices pose the greatest risk to the credit profiles of sovereigns such as Bahrain, Angola, Venezuela and Ecuador, with the least vulnerable being Kuwait, Abu Dhabi, and Norway.   (Additional reporting by Alex Lawler, David Sheppard and Shadia Nasralla; Writing by Dmitry Zhdannikov; Editing by Dale Hudson) FREE AppDownload
NAGOYA/TOKYO, Japan (Reuters) - Bank of Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda on Tuesday stressed the bank's readiness to expand stimulus further to meet its price goal, a message that was partially echoed by an European Central Bank policymaker as the euro zone economy battles to lift off. In a speech to business leaders, Kuroda stood firm in the face of criticism that last month's unexpected monetary easing has accelerated unwelcome falls in the currency, saying that the "BOJ will continue to take action" to vanquish deflation. But not all in the BOJ's nine-member board share Kuroda's optimism that the benefits of further stimulus outweigh the costs, minutes of last month's meeting showed, suggesting that the central bank chief may struggle to push through more easing. Some BOJ policymakers opposed last month's easing, warning that doing so would hurt the BOJ's credibility if its bond-buying is seen as tantamount to debt monetization, according to minutes of the BOJ's Oct. 31 meeting released on Tuesday Nonetheless, Kuroda defended the Oct. 31 easing as a necessary step to ensure the Japanese public shakes off its "deflationary mindset," and to encourage companies to start investing and hiring more on expectations that prices will rise ahead. "To achieve the price stability target, the BOJ has been taking 'action' and will continue to do so," he told business leaders in Nagoya, a central Japan city home to auto giant Toyota Motor Corp. While business executives present at the meeting generally welcomed the BOJ's stimulus, some warned that recent yen declines were too rapid and were hurting smaller companies. Kuroda declined to discuss how recent yen falls affected the overall economy, only saying that while a weak yen benefits exports, it hurts households and non-manufacturers by raising the cost of imports. "We will carefully watch market moves, including currency moves, and their effect on the economy." The yen has come under renewed pressure since the BOJ stunned markets by expanding its quantitative and qualitative easing (QQE) program last month. The dollar is hovering around 118.44 yen on Tuesday, after scaling a seven-year high of 118.98 yen last week. Last month's monetary easing was decided by a tight 5-4 vote after intense debate over why the BOJ ought to expand stimulus when it was clinging to the view the economy was recovering. Since that meeting, economic data showed that Japan slipped into recession, and three of the four board members who opposed extra easing voted in favor at the subsequent meeting on Nov. 18-19.  The BOJ has made some progress in pulling Japan out of 15 years of nagging deflation, but the euro-zone is drifting closer to deflation and now there are concerns that other economies, notably China and South Korea, also face deflationary risks. European Central Bank policymaker Christian Noyer, speaking in Tokyo, said that the ECB needs to influence inflation expectations, which is a major component of the BOJ's policy framework. However, one area where the two central banks differ is the ECB has so far avoided the purchases of government debt that the BOJ has used to push down yields. "Monetary policy must aim at influencing both nominal interest rates and inflation expectations," Noyer said. Advocates of the BOJ's expanded debt purchases have said the central bank needed to act to prevent recent oil price falls from hurting inflation expectations, and in doing so ought to expand asset purchases at "as massive as scale as possible" to boost sentiment, the minutes showed. But those opposed warned that further easing would accelerate yen falls and may not lift business sentiment, given interest rates were already very low, according to the minutes. Another risk of the BOJ's debt buying program is that it could disrupt the functioning of the bond market because its purchases are so large, Deputy Governor Hiroshi Nakaso said on Tuesday. Some institutional investors have had difficulty borrowing JGBs, but indicators of liquidity show no signs of major disruptions, he said.   (Editing by Chris Gallagher &amp; Shri Navaratnam) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jim YoungPolice form a line in the street after a grand jury returned no indictment in the shooting of Michael Brown in Ferguson, Missouri, on Monday.Good morning! Here are 10 major stories you need to know about before markets open in the US.  Stocks Are Up Again. The bull market continues. Dow futures are up 21 points, and S&amp;P futures are up 2 points. In Europe, Britain's FTSE is up 0.1%, France's CAC 40 is up 0.5%, and Germany's DAX is up 0.9%. In Asia, Japan's Nikkei closed up 0.3%. Japan's Kuroda Is Ready To Ease More. "Bank of Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda on Tuesday stressed the bank's readiness to expand stimulus further to meet its price goal, a message that was partially echoed by an European Central Bank policymaker as the eurozone economy battles to lift off," Reuters' Leika Kihara and Stanley White reported. "In a speech to business leaders, Kuroda stood firm in the face of criticism that last month's unexpected monetary easing has accelerated unwelcome falls in the currency, saying that the 'BOJ will continue to take action' to vanquish deflation." Bayer May Sell Its Diabetes Business. "German drugmaker Bayer AG is considering a fresh attempt to sell its diabetes device business as it sharpens its focus on margin-rich healthcare sectors, two people familiar with the matter told Reuters on Tuesday," Reuters' Arno Schuetze and Ludwig Burger reported. Sony To Cut TV Lineup. "Japan's loss-making Sony Corp. plans to slash its TV and mobile phone product lineups to cut costs, counting on multibillion-dollar revenue surges for its buoyant PlayStation 4 and image sensor businesses over the next three years," Reuters' Reiji Murai reported. General Motors Is Expecting Sluggish Demand Everywhere But The US. General Motors President Dan Ammann on Monday said he expected "more of the same" next year from a US auto market that has been growing slowly, while he is bracing for continued soft demand in other parts of the globe. GDP Revised Way Up. Q3 US GDP growth was revised up to 3.9% from an earlier estimate of 3.5%. Economists had forecast a downward revision to 3.3%. From the BEA: "With the second estimate for the third quarter, private inventory investment decreased less than previously estimated, and both personal consumption expenditures (PCE) and nonresidential fixed investment increased more. In contrast, exports increased less than previously estimated. An Update On Home Prices. The S&amp;P Case-Shiller Home Price index climbed 0.34% year-over-year in September, which was in line with expectations. “The overall trend in home price increases continues to slow down,” S&amp;P's David Blitzer said. "The Northeast region reported its first negative monthly returns since December 2013 and its worst annual returns since December 2012 due to weaknesses in Washington D.C. and Boston. The West and Southwest, previously strong regions, are seeing price gains fade. The only region showing any sustained strength is the Southeast led by Florida; price gains are also evident in Atlanta and Charlotte." Confidence Check. At 10 a.m. ET, we'll get the consumer confidence report. Economists estimate the Conference Board's index of sentiment climbed to 96.0 in November. "The Conference Board index hit a seven-year high of 94.5 in October," Credit Suisse economists noted. "We estimate that the upward momentum continued in November, given the stock market’s near record highs and significant further declines in gasoline prices." Ferguson Cop Avoids Charges For Teen's Death. A grand jury decided not to indict Missouri police officer Darren Wilson for shooting and killing unarmed teenager Michael Brown. Peaceful protest slowly escalated into riots and looting. Tear gas flew, police cars went up in flames, and stores burned down. New Details. Wilson's grand jury testimony and photos of his injuries were released following the decision not to indict. In Wilson's words: "He turns, and when he looked at me, he made like a grunting, like aggravated sound and he starts, he turns and he's coming back towards me ... His first step is coming towards me, he kind of does like a stutter step to start running. When he does that, his left hand goes in a fist and goes to his side, his right one goes under his shirt in his waistband and he starts running at me." FREE AppDownload
The reality show "Bar Rescue" is in its fourth season on Spike TV. Each episode offers an opportunity for veteran food and beverage industry consultant Jon Taffer to swoop in and revive a failing bar. Usually this entails having to identify the staff's weakest link. Taffer recently dropped by the Business Insider headquarters during a promotional tour for his new BarHQ app.Produced by Graham Flanagan Follow BI Video: On Twitter
TOKYO (AP) — When Prime Minister Shinzo Abe responded to Japan's surprise recession by delaying a sales-tax increase, it was a cause for worry, not celebration, for many young Japanese. This generation, barely aware of their country's economic heyday, frets that putting off tough decisions now could make the future even worse. Despite Abe's unprecedented stimulus efforts — almost everything short of dropping money from helicopters — Japan has slipped into recession less than two years after the last one. With the country's debt rising, population aging and job security fading, young people in particular wonder when, and if, Japan will bounce back. "This is our children's future," said Mai Yamaguchi, a 29-year-old trading company employee heading into the gaudy Shibuya shopping area for an outing with her 4-month-old son and two other young moms and babies. "Child care, elder care, social welfare are all going to be even bigger burdens for us." Under pressure to reduce the developed world's heaviest per-capita debt burden, at over a quadrillion yen ($8.5 trillion), Abe raised the sales tax from 5 percent to 8 percent in April, and was supposed to increase it to 10 percent next year. But after the economy, already fragile after two decades of malaise, shrank for two quarters in a row, he put off the second increase until 2017. Yamaguchi was unimpressed by that decision. "I'm grateful to Mr. Abe for his policies to improve child care, but putting off the tax increase, well, they say the pension system is on the verge of bankruptcy. I think it would have been better to go ahead and raise the tax as planned," she said. The generation born as Japan's economic bubble burst in the early 1990s will be supporting a vast cohort of retirees. Though their nation is rich, with ultra-modern public transport, low crime rates and excellent public health services, most are making do without the security of lifetime employment enjoyed by their parents and grandparents. Meanwhile, Japan's economy is being eclipsed by neighboring China, whose up-and-coming tech and industrial companies are increasingly potent rivals. Low birth rates and increased life expectancy mean that Japan's working age population is thinning out while the number of retirees and centenarians is swelling. The rapid aging of Japanese society is so evident in the mix of pedestrians on the street, in the media and in political discourse that it's an issue on just about everyone's mind. Ryosuke Sunaga, a college senior decked out in his best job-hunting suit and brand new briefcase, said that by the time he has kids, he expects the sales tax will be at least 15 percent. On Friday, Abe dissolved parliament for a Dec. 14 snap election he is calling to seek public approval of the tax hike delay and to affirm public support for his all-or-nothing policies to revive the world's third-largest economy. He has pledged to vanquish Japan's long stagnation by injecting tens of trillions of yen (hundreds of billions of dollars) into the economy, pushing prices higher and the value of Japan's currency lower. He also has promised a sweeping and drastic overhaul to help improve the country's crumbling competitiveness. So far, that combination, dubbed "Abenomics," has yielded mixed results. Profits of big exporters have surged, thanks to the weaker yen, but higher costs have hit households and smaller companies. Despite some wage increases, many ordinary Japanese feel less well off than before, thanks to longer-term declines in wages and purchasing power. "I'm not a permanent employee, and that worries me," said Kaori Endo, a 21-year-old bread factory worker from Ibaraki, north of Tokyo. "Right now I'm living with my family, but I'm thinking about how I will support my parents. If I were a full employee, my parents would be less worried," said Endo, who plans to take professional tests to help improve her job status. REUTERS/Toru Hanai Japan's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe speaks to the media at his official residence in Tokyo October 20, 2014.Over the past two decades, Japanese manufacturers struggling to compete with rivals in China have grown increasingly reliant on temporary or contract workers. Budget cuts have extended such practices into other fields such as teaching and nursing. Today, about four in 10 Japanese work in part-time or contract jobs with little job security and scant benefits. For young Japanese, permanent, career-track jobs are the exception, rather than the rule. As lawmakers rush to prepare for the election, Abe is renewing his campaign to persuade Japanese companies to raise wages and offer more opportunities for women workers. He also has promised to slash corporate taxes beginning next year to entice companies to invest more in Japan. In the meantime, Abe has been pushing ahead with cuts to social welfare, raising health insurance premiums and co-payment requirements for all, including retirees. Ultimately, Japanese taxpayers will end up shouldering an even greater share of the country's surging costs for health insurance, elder care and pensions, said Koichi Hamada, an economic adviser to Abe. "It's not very fair to poorer constituents, but still we have to go ahead with the consumption tax hike," Hamada said. College student Yuto Tanaka, 19, said he knows that there's millions of yen (tens of thousands of dollars) in debt for every person in Japan. But fretting won't resolve that problem, and neither would an immediate tax hike, he said. "If they raise the sales tax now, it will hurt the economy and tax revenues will fall anyway," said Tanaka, taking a break at the bustling intersection in Shibuya known as "Scramble" before heading to classes. "We have to hope," he said. "If Japan falls to pieces, our society will be finished. We have to muddle through." Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Enrique MarcarianEuropean stocks are climbing after Germany confirmed that it did not fall into recession in Q3. Here's the scorecard. France's CAC 40: +0.64% Germany's DAX: +0.99% The UK's FTSE 100: +0.15% Spain's IBEX: +1.19% Italy's FTSE MIB: +1.16% Asian markets were mixed: Japan's Nikkei closed up 0.29%, while Hong Kong's Hang Seng ended Tuesday down 0.21%. US futures are now up: ahead of the open, the S&amp;P 500 is 2.25 points higher, and the Dow is up 19 points.  Later today the biggest single piece of economic data is the second estimate of US GDP. That's out at 1.30 p.m. GMT, and economists are expecting a 3.3% annualised jump. Consumer spending figures are out at the same time, followed by consumer confidence at 3 p.m. GMT.  This article was last updated at 11:58 a.m. GMT. FREE AppDownload
America has an obesity problem. It's not overweight people at risk of severe health problems and skyrocketing medical costs. That's a discussion for after the holidays. The problem at hand, which could affect millions, is far more troubling — and it has to do with pigs. Hogs in the United States are too fat, and ham has never been more expensive than it is right now, which means that traditional hams — a staple of many an American Thanksgiving and Christmas dinner —  could be priced off the menu this holiday season. A new report from Bloomberg says that pigs in the US are the heaviest they've ever been. This may mean more pork per pig, but it's a problem because the hefty hogs' hind legs are too big to produce the 7-pound, spiral-cut half hams that commonly adorn the family holiday table. The 7-pounders are the most in-demand hams during the holidays, HoneyBaked Ham Co.'s CFO Brian Mariuz told Bloomberg. But the cuts are also in the lowest supply. #FastFact: Retail ham prices have risen 26% in the last year. The meat industry might have slaughtered more than 92 million hogs this year, but that's down from some 97 million over the same period in 2013, according to US Department of Agriculture (USDA) figures. The 5 percent decline is due mainly to the porcine epidemic diarrhea virus that hit stockyards earlier this year, the USDA said. To try and recoup losses from piglets that died from the virus, hog farmers fed surviving pigs for longer to fatten them up. The pigs weighed a resulting 215.5 pounds this year on average — the biggest in US hog history — which proved too big to slice into the sought-after half hams, according to Mariuz. U.S. pigs are too fat and so ham prices are going through the roof. Let me say this again: Pigs are too fat. Who knew? The half ham shortage comes at a bad time for the pork industry; Americans consume half of their annual ham over the Thanksgiving and Christmas period. It also means skyrocketing of ham retail prices, which were up a record 26 percent this year to $3.43 a pound, according to the USDA. The ham shortage doesn't appear to be serious enough to make hams unavailable for the holiday season, but it's not clear how US consumers will swallow the price hikes on spiral hams. If any good news is hiding in the pork report, it's that pork belly — where bacon comes from — is as cheap as it's been in five years. So, if you find your holiday spread without ham, maybe you can compensate with pounds of bacon. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Pawel KopczysnkiA trader is pictured at his desk in front of the DAX board at the Frankfurt stock exchange September 13, 2011Most people miss the whole point about big data and just bandy the term around, according to William Easton, the managing director of Facebook in Australia. “We’re at risk of losing sight as to what big data is all about,” he told a Australia-Israel Chamber of Commerce function in Sydney. Facebook, alongside Google, has one of the most high-profile big data programs in the world. It uses data to make news feeds more relevant to users and create opportunities for advertisers to reach narrow, but precise, audiences. It digests about 500 times more data each day than the New York Stock Exchange. Easton says there are a lot of business which think they are ticking the boxes for big data because they are gathering information. “Big data is not just about data collection,” he says, adding: “The reality is that big data has absolutely no value unless you can build insights. And insights have no value unless you can distribute those insights in the right format to the right people… to make the right business decisions to ultimately drive efficiencies and P/L sales.” And LinkedIn agrees. Big data is driving businesses. Cliff Rosenberg, Managing director of LinkedIn in Australia, says there’s huge pressure on companies to collect and store that data. The big challenge, he says, is getting the right type of people to analyse the data – but they are rare. “That’s data scientists,” Rosenberg says. “So if any of you have teenagers wanting to know what to do [they should look at data science].” It’s the thing to do right know if you want to go to Silicon Valley. It’s a pretty cool job.” Easton at Facebook agrees that technology is changing the skill sets in demand. “I don’t think we’ll need less people … the question is what will those people do?” he says. “We will require different skills.” This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Germany's second estimate of GDP was just released, confirming the feeble 0.1% expansion of Europe's biggest economy in the third quarter. But the figures also come with more details, showing how Germany's dismal investment position is dragging on growth.  Private consumption rose by 0.4%, and government spending grew 0.1%, but it's easy to see from this chart what held back the economy: Pantheon Macroeconomics Investment dropped 0.7% and inventories fell 0.5% in the same period, adding to the growing pile of evidence that Germany needs more public investment, even if that means not reaching its balanced budget goals.  German investment is now actually at a lower level than it was five quarters ago, a pretty dismal sign for Europe's largest economy. According to the IW Institute, an economics think tank, German companies are shying away from spending because of high energy prices and labour costs. The country's nuclear moratorium has increased Germany's reliance on more expensive renewable energy and coal, and an incoming minimum wage hike is likely to raise bills for pay in 2015.  Germany has also seen some dire industrial figures in recent months. Though the country is still avoiding recession, if the rest of the eurozone slows or falls into crisis again, it now seems unlikely that Europe's biggest economy will be providing much of a positive counterweight.  FREE AppDownload
Good morning! Here's what you need to know before your first meeting of the day. 1. Riots broke out after a grand jury in the US decided not to indict the police officer who shot Michael Brown, an unarmed man, in Ferguson, Missouri. Police cars have been smashed and the police used tear gas on protesters. 2. The account of the police officer who shot Michael Brown in Ferguson, Missouri, has been aired for the first time. He says he was attacked by Brown after he stopped the man to ask him not to walk in the middle of the street. 3. BT is staging a bid to acquire either EE or o2. The £10 billion move would put BT back on top of the UK telecoms market, the Financial Times says. 4. Germany's consumers saved the country from recession. Consumer demand countered a slump in business buying. 5. Apple announced its Black Friday deals. The tech company rarely discounts its products on any other day. See the offers here. 6. If you walk past Google's London office you might get zapped by static electricity. Authorities say the weird energy field emanating from the building is safe. 7. The Saudis aren't bothered by falling oil prices. They're hoping it will squeeze the nascent US shale oil business. 8. The glass walkway over Tower Bridge in London has already been cracked. Someone dropped a beer bottle onto it and the top layer shattered. 9. Coca-Cola is launching its own brand of expensive milk. It will be twice the price, and have more protein, less sugar and no lactose, compared to normal milk. 10. China is considering letting its army fight terrorists abroad. Chinese troops rarely deploy in foreign countries. And finally ... The artist who created the Kryptos sculpture for the CIA has released another clue to help people decipher the code written on it. Spies have been working on the code for years but have repeatedly failed to crack the last portion of it. FREE AppDownload
FRANKFURT (Reuters) - German drugmaker Bayer AG is considering a fresh attempt to sell its diabetes device business as it sharpens its focus on margin-rich healthcare sectors, two people familiar with the matter told Reuters on Tuesday. Bayer is overhauling its structure with plans to list its plastics business on the stock market to free up money for investments and acquisitions in healthcare, veterinary drugs and crop protection products. It already tried to find a buyer for the Contour blood glucose meter business, which has annual sales of 722 million euros ($897 mln), in 2012 as the industry grappled with increased competition and reimbursement pressure. But it failed to generate sufficient interest from potential bidders such as French drugmaker Sanofi, sources said at the time. Two sources told Reuters on Tuesday that Bayer has mandated Credit Suisse to find a buyer for the business and is expecting tentative bids in the first quarter of 2015. Bloomberg earlier cited sources as saying the diabetes device business, thought to be worth 1 billion to 2 billion euros, might attract bids from private equity firms such as Cinven Ltd, EQT Partners AB and Triton Advisers Ltd. Bayer and Credit Suisse declined to comment on the matter.     (Reporting by Arno Schuetze and Ludwig Burger; Additional reporting by Frank Siebelt in Frankfurt and Rishika Sadam in Bangalore; Writing by Maria Sheahan; Editing by Andre Grenon) FREE AppDownload
Riyadh - OPEC's biggest crude producer Saudi Arabia will have its sights set on the upstart US shale oil business at a crucial cartel meeting to debate possible output cuts on Thursday. Analysts say the kingdom is content to see shale oil producers -- and even some members of the cartel -- suffer from low prices and will resist pressure to reduce output and shore up the cost of oil. A barrel of crude has plunged by about one third in value since June to around $80 in an increasingly competitive market. Saudi Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi was silent about his government's intentions Monday as he arrived in Vienna ahead of the OPEC gathering.  "Is this the first time we have oversupply?" he was quoted as saying by Dow Jones Newswires when questioned about current supply and demand. However his Iraqi counterpart Abdel Mahdi arrived in Vienna pushing for action, deeming the steep price drop "not acceptable".  Analysts say the kingdom is strong enough to withstand lower prices. "Saudi Arabia wants to try and knock out shale oil competitors from the market," said Saudi economist Abdulwahab Abu-Dahesh. "They have the fiscal strength to remain steadfast for two to three years," he told AFP. Oil prices have collapsed to four-year lows on factors including dampening demand in a sluggish world economy, a sharp rise in output from shale oil and other unconventional sources, and a strong dollar. - Oil prices fall further - Global oil prices fell Monday amid skepticism that OPEC would move aggressively to lift prices. US benchmark West Texas Intermediate crude for January delivery dipped 73 cents to $75.78 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Meanwhile European Brent oil for January dropped 68 cents to $79.68 a barrel in London. Although Saudi Arabia and its Gulf neighbours the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait could bear the burden of lower production, "I don't think they will cut because they will lose their market share," said Fahad Alturki, chief economist and head of research at Jadwa Investment in the Saudi capital. Figures from the US Energy Information Administration showed Saudi exports to the US dropped by almost 30 percent from 1.25 million barrels per day in July to below 900,000 bpd in August, although it remains the second largest US supplier after Canada. The kingdom then cut its prices for crude sold to the US market, sending global prices plummeting in early November by almost $2. Rob Griffith/ReutersPresident of Russia Vladimir Putin (L) and Crown Prince Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud (R) of Saudi Arabia talk through their interpreters during a plenary session at the G20 leaders summit in Brisbane November 15, 2014.  - Defending US market share - Analysts saw the Saudi move as an effort to hold onto North American market share against cheaper oil from US shale fields. Saudi Arabia also raised prices for its oil sold to Asia and other areas but was apparently "concentrating more on defending its market share in the US", Commerzbank analysts said. The kingdom exports two-thirds of its crude to Asia but this year has seen its market share fall in China and India, said analysts from Platts, a global energy information provider. OPEC pumped 30.6 million bpd last month, above its 30 million bpd target, according to the International Energy Agency which advises member countries on energy policy. Of that total, Saudi Arabia produced around 9.6 million bpd in October, according to data cited by OPEC. Some analysts expect OPEC's 12 members to retain the 30 million bpd ceiling in Vienna. - Saudi 'is happy' - "I think the only beneficiaries of an oil cut would be the shale oil producers who are now losing money as the prices are becoming lower than their marginal cost," Alturki said. Technological innovations have unlocked shale resources in North America and raised daily US oil output by more than 40 percent since 2006, but at a production cost which can be three or four times that of extracting Middle Eastern oil. Alturki said that as prices fall into the $70 range "we think the basic survival of the shale oil producer will be a question". He said the kingdom doesn't need to make major production cuts because continuing lower prices will push shale producers out of the market, reduce excess supply and raise prices. "So I think Saudi Arabia is happy with such a dynamic," said Alturki. British-based analysts at Capital Economics said Saudi Arabia is "in a much stronger position" economically than many other OPEC members, and is likely to resist pressure to lower its output. "Over the longer-term, Saudi Arabia may see a period of lower oil prices as working in its favour," boosting oil demand, they said. "In addition, it may cause problems for the shale industry in the US and the Saudis are probably content seeing the less-friendly oil producers in the Middle East, notably Iran, coming under pressure," the analysts said in a briefing paper. FREE AppDownload
LONDON/WASHINGTON - U.S. prosecutors will travel to London in the coming weeks to interview traders about currency market manipulation, the latest sign that authorities are closer to filing criminal charges stemming from the long-running probe, sources told Reuters. Officials from the U.S. Department of Justice will interview current or former employees at HSBC Holdings plc, among other banks, people familiar with the matter told Reuters. The plans to interview traders from HSBC do not necessarily indicate that prosecutors will file criminal charges against the bank or its employees, sources said, noting it is common for prosecutors to speak to witnesses in any criminal investigation. HSBC declined to comment. The authorities have given banks under investigation until mid-December to turn over related information, one source said. JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co, Citigroup Inc, UBS AG, and others have disclosed that they are under criminal investigation in the foreign exchange probe. A Justice Department spokesman declined comment, as did representatives of the banks. The interviews come soon after U.S., Swiss, and British civil authorities fined those banks and others $4.3 billion for failing to stop traders from trying to manipulate the largely unregulated $5-trillion-a-day foreign exchange market. The fines brought total penalties for benchmark manipulation to more than $10 billion over two years. The Justice Department is undertaking a broad probe into whether banks have been colluding to move currency rates and boost their profits in trading, violating fraud or antitrust laws. Prosecutors are also looking at whether traders misled clients. Authorities are expected to charge individuals and banks, though institutions are likely to resolve charges through deferred prosecution agreements or guilty pleas instead of litigation. Banks in recent years have been accused of manipulating benchmarks across a series of markets. The foreign exchange benchmarks under investigation are used by asset managers and corporate treasurers to value their holdings, which run into the trillions of dollars. When announcing the civil settlement over their foreign exchange business, the banks acknowledged wrongdoing, condemned the actions of the involved employees and said they were working to fix the problems. Banks have suspended or fired more than 30 traders, clamped down on chat rooms and boosted their use of automated trading. "NICE TEAM WORK"   Earlier this month Attorney General Eric Holder said he expected "the beginning stages of a resolution" of the Justice Department's investigation into the foreign exchange market to come soon. Holder also confirmed in September the department had enlisted undercover cooperators as part of its probe.     U.S. prosecutors have pursued evidence overseas in other investigations, and flew to London to meet with counterparts, share evidence and conduct joint interviews on an earlier probe into manipulating interest rate benchmarks, including Libor.     That probe has resulted in criminal charges against 11 traders and others including UBS, Dutch lender Rabobank. Two former Rabobank employees pleaded guilty. In the foreign exchange probe, U.S. authorities have leverage to obtain information from Barclays, UBS, HSBC and others because the banks are under deferred, or non-prosecution, agreements to resolve previous misconduct.     HSBC, for example, is under a five-year deferred prosecution agreement with the Justice Department from 2012 that resolved charges it failed to catch hundreds of millions of dollars in drug money that flowed through the bank.     The deals force the banks to turn over any information that prosecutors ask for, and open them up to possible criminal prosecution for both prior failures and crimes committed after the agreement.     The HSBC agreement specifically forces the bank to make any current and former employees available, at the bank's cost, to be interviewed by law enforcement authorities.     The civil settlement from earlier this month over currency manipulation included online chat room transcripts in which traders are seen working together to move rates at which currency pairs like the U.S. dollar and the British pound trade.     In one chat, an HSBC trader and others celebrate moving the rate: "Well done gents," one said. "Hooray nice team work," another responds.     (Reporting by Jamie McGeever in London and Aruna Viswanatha in Washington, Editing by Dan Wilchins and Alan Crosby in New York) FREE AppDownload
