OSAKA/TOKYO (Reuters) - Two U.S. billionaires are betting on rival cities, Tokyo and Osaka, to be the first in Japan to open casino resorts - once the government gives the go-ahead to legalize gambling. Japan is one of the world's last untapped gaming markets and could become the third largest gambling destination after Macau and the United States, with annual revenue of over $40 billion, according to broker CLSA. Lawmakers who support legalizing casino gambling hope to see initial draft legislation this year, with the first resort opening by 2020, when Tokyo hosts the Olympic Games. In a race for first-mover advantage, 76-year-old Chicago real estate mogul Neil Bluhm has set his sights on the southern commercial hub of Osaka, while Las Vegas gaming tycoon Sheldon Adelson, four years his senior, is putting his weight behind a Tokyo flagship resort. Bluhm, who owns casinos in Pennsylvania, Chicago and Niagara Falls, has a net worth of $2.6 billion, according to Forbes. The former lawyer and now head of Rush Gaming believes Osaka, one of Chicago's 'sister cities', has the kind of flexible local government that will help drive this project, and, crucially, has "shovel ready" casino sites. He says the whole process - from approval to construction - in Tokyo will be more complex, more time-consuming, and more expensive. While Adelson hasn't ruled out pitching for Osaka, too, he sees Tokyo as the main prize, given its highly affluent 13.2 million population. The CEO of Las Vegas Sands Corp &lt;LVS.N&gt;, who Forbes says is worth close to $39 billion, has pledged to spend $10 billion as Japan opens up to legal gambling - an offer he says his rivals can't match. THROWING BIG NUMBERS In a recent report, Morgan Stanley predicted that a Japanese casino resort costing more than $5 billion would offer a return on investment of below 20 percent due to rising costs and a struggle to attract enough high-rolling Chinese VIP customers. Sands, which has casinos in Macau, Singapore and Las Vegas, remains bullish on its Japan plans given the country's wealthy population and proximity to China. "We are very confident in our ability to generate a return that would be satisfactory to our shareholders," George Tanasijevich, managing director for global development, said in a phone interview. He did not elaborate. Bluhm shrugs off rivals' talk of big money spending. "Sometimes people like to throw big numbers around in order to get picked ... We have been more for Osaka in the $4-$5 billion range," he told Reuters. Bluhm also reckons he may have an edge over the big operators in Macau - who he thinks likely prefer Tokyo - by working alongside local partners. "In reality, they are going to want to totally run the project. They are probably not used to having partnership relationships like we are," he said. Osaka's government is keen for foreign operators to use Japanese firms in a consortium or joint venture, said Masayuki Inoue, director general of the city's economic strategy bureau, stressing Osaka wants a large casino resort with convention and entertainment facilities. "Osaka city is flexible. We're ready to discuss anything." The Kansai Keizai Doyukai, a leading local business lobby, reckons land costs in Osaka will be a tenth of those in the capital, some 250 kms (155 miles) to the northeast. And, it says, the city can offer a development area three times bigger than that occupied by Singapore's two casino resorts - Marina Bay Sands and Resorts World Sentosa &lt;GENS.SI&gt;. Fifty-six percent of Osaka residents polled in April said they were positive about the city of 2.8 million people having a casino resort. The city, located on Honshu island at the mouth of the Yodo River has a reputation for being more extrovert than Tokyo, and local authorities have designated a 170-acre plot of reclaimed land, known as Yumeshima, as the preferred resort site. Osaka's Governor Ichiro Matsui told Reuters last month that casino operators would invest around $5 billion for an integrated resort, and bear some of the infrastructure costs such as a potential rail link. TOKYO TORTOISE In comparison, officials in Tokyo, already setting about preparing for the 2020 Olympics, appear more tortoise than hare. Industry executives worry privately that Tokyo is so focused on getting the Olympics right that there's little momentum driving the casino issue. Tokyo Governor Yoichi Masuzoe, a former health minister, has yet to say whether he will seek a casino license for the capital or not. "We're not like Osaka and Yokohama. We haven't stepped on the accelerator and said let's go," Yukimasa Saito, an official at the governor's office, told Reuters. A waterfront area called Odaiba in Tokyo Bay has been touted by executives and officials as a preferred location for any casino resort in the capital, but securing enough land could prove a challenge. At present, around 14 hectares (34.6 acres) are available for sale by the city behind the headquarters of TV broadcaster Fuji Media Holdings &lt;4676.T&gt;. Doubling that would require re-zoning parks and buying land currently owned by a real estate developer and Toyota Motor Corp &lt;7203.T&gt;, said an official in Tokyo's waterfront development division. The department sparked concern among some casino watchers about Tokyo's intentions last month when it said it would auction a 2.7-hectare plot in the Odaiba area for a 10-year lease - effectively taking the lot out of the equation for casino resort developers. TOURISM SPREAD In Osaka, officials say a casino would help spur Japan's tourism beyond heavily populated Tokyo. Osaka is just half an hour from the former imperial capital Kyoto and trade hub Kobe. Other regional hubs, such as Sasebo in the south and the ageing port city of Otaru, have also said they would welcome casino plans to boost tourism. None are as far advanced in the process as Osaka - where a common local greeting is "mokari makka?" - are you making money? While rival operators - including Melco Crown Entertainment &lt;6883.HK&gt;, MGM Resorts International &lt;MGM.N&gt; and Genting Singapore - are eyeing both Tokyo and Osaka, Bluhm says he's already in talks with Osaka-based Japanese companies across a range of industries. For residents like Yusuke Sawada, a 30-year-old architect, a casino resort could be a boost for local Osaka businesses. "If casinos come, it can bring more tourists to spend big money. Osaka has much less money (than Tokyo). We need it more." (Additional reporting by Emi Emoto and Yoshiyuki Osada; Editing by Ian Geoghegan) FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Shannon StapletonOmnicom and Publicis leaders John Wren and Maurice Levy.While regulatory approval has been known to halt a merger in its tracks, a $35 billion pending acquisition that could have resulted in the largest advertising agency on the planet has been scrapped for decidedly more personal reasons. U.S.-based advertising giant Omnicom and its French counterpart Publicis have tossed out a deal announced last July, primarily due to internal cultural clashes and power struggles within the forthcoming entity’s executive suites, Reuters reports. “Omnicom wanted their people to fill the CEO, CFO and general counsel jobs,” Publicis chief Maurice Levy told the outlet. “I thought that went too far. I was not ready to cede on this point.” Related: Hear That? Apple May Buy Beats Electronics in $3.2 Billion Mega Deal. “There are strong corporate cultures in both companies that delayed us reaching an agreement,” Omnicom CEO John Wren explained -- and these delays had resulted in astronomic losses of work, namely more than $1.5 billion in the past month alone. Approximately 65 percent of mergers falter -- primarily due to lack of corporate blending, says Alan Smith, CEO of the M&amp;A consulting firm Bay Pacific Group. "The danger time in a corporate culture clash is in the very beginning when employees on both sides feel threatened by the combination," he advises. "By acknowledging its presence early on and educating employees as to its dynamics, people will be better prepared to appreciate differences that may help build a stronger organization in the long run." Related: Another Mega Merger: AT&amp;T Reportedly Eyeing $40 Billion Purchase of DirecTV Though the deal would have called for 50-50 ownership and had been initiated to cope with an evolving ad industry increasingly dominated by tech giants like Google and Facebook, both sides ultimately fell prey to a corporate soap opera of sorts. There were also complications over legal and tax issues -- and also of note was that China’s antitrust regulator, Mofcom, had not granted the deal regulatory approval, notes The New York Times. As they go their separate ways, both Omnicom and Publicis face no termination fees, but will split the legal bills resulting from the failed transaction. Related: The $19 Billion WhatsApp Deal Was Big, But Not the Year's Biggest (Infographic) FREE AppDownload
The Little OwlThe Little Owl in the West VillagePer Se recently announced it would start allowing diners to bring their own bottles of wine to the 3 Michelin-star restaurant — for a whopping $150 corkage fee.  This move got people talking, but Per Se is certainly not the first restaurant to allow diners to bring their own bottles. Dozens of other NYC restaurants feature BYOB policies — and it's not just the cheap hole-in-the wall joints that you'd expect.  Here are 13 great NYC restaurants that offer BYOB policies. We've noted the corking fee for the restaurants that have one. FREE AppDownload
Amanda Macias/Business InsiderTwo sets of numbers tell a contradictory story about the euro zone.  Economic data point to improvements by the month, even by the day: growth is picking up and the borrowing costs of even the most indebted countries keep falling.  The crisis is over, say some Eurocrats. By contrast, polls ahead of this month's European elections point to political upheaval.  Voters are exasperated with their governments and with Europe; anti-establishment groups are on the rise and may come top in some places. Europe may be about to test de Tocqueville's contention that the most propitious time for revolution is not when conditions are worsening, but when they start to improve. "Evils which are patiently endured when they seem inevitable become intolerable once the idea of escape from them is suggested," he wrote. Having witnessed the evils of falling living standards and mass unemployment, and with a general sense that citizens have had to pay to save banks (all worsened by leaders' mismanagement of the crisis), there are signs that escape is at hand. This week euro-zone finance ministers congratulated Portugal on making a "clean exit" from its bail-out, forgoing the safety net of a precautionary loan. In following the examples of Ireland and Spain, Portugal is perhaps being reckless. If these countries run into trouble, they will be able neither to draw quickly on loans nor to rely on the backstop of the European Central Bank, whose never-used bond-buying policy, Outright Monetary Transactions (OMT), depends on there being a formal programme. But politics has trumped prudence. Debtor countries can claim to have rid themselves of the hated "troika" (the ECB, the European Commission and the IMF); creditors can claim vindication for their policies of austerity and structural reform. Greece and Cyprus remain under programmes. Euro-zone ministers belatedly acknowledged that, after years of austerity and a deep slump, Greece has at last achieved a primary budget surplus (ie, before interest payments). Under a promise made in 2012 but delayed until after the European election, the euro zone will consider if Greece needs more help to bring down its vast debt. Nobody will talk of a write-off. Instead ministers may "extend and pretend" by stretching out already-long maturities. The recovery is gaining strength, with modest but accelerating growth expected in the euro zone this year and next. Cyprus, the only country still in recession, is likely to grow next year. Unemployment has peaked. Investors are rushing into peripheral European debt. Yields on ten-year bonds for Italy and Spain have dipped below 3% for the first time since the euro began (though that partly reflects very low inflation). Last month Greece returned to the bond market for the first time in four years. Yet markets are in danger of reverting to the folly of the first decade of the euro, when investors paid almost the same price for the debt of Greece as of Germany. There are good reasons to restrain the euphoria. The prospect of a chaotic default and the break-up of the euro may have receded, but economic problems are far from over. Debt levels have risen sharply, growth is sluggish and unemployment is worryingly high. More than a quarter of workers are out of jobs in Spain and Greece. Bank lending, on which euro-zone firms are still dependent, is shrinking. Similar companies in neighbouring euro-zone countries pay widely different interest rates. With inflation consistently below 1%, troubled countries will struggle to close the competitiveness gap with Germany and work off heavy debts. The prospect of even more damaging deflation is uncomfortably close. Europe faces three interconnected risks: prolonged stagnation, reform paralysis and political backlash. Especially in southern Europe, growth will be sluggish at best and joblessness will remain high for many years. Despite the arrival of energetic new prime ministers, France and Italy have yet to make a convincing commitment to liberal reforms, while Germany is unapologetic about running a large demand-sapping trade surplus. The euro zone, too, is shy of change. The ECB has dragged its feet over unconventional measures like quantitative easing to fight deflation. Other European Union institutions are in pre-electoral doldrums; there is a good chance of stalemate over the choice of a new commission president. There is little energy left for measures to strengthen the euro zone through greater risk-sharing, or to boost growth by deepening the single market. Negotiations on an ambitious transatlantic trade deal with America are losing steam (also because of nervousness in America). One reason why European politicians are worried about further reform is the fear of populism. Eurosceptic parties are leading the polls or running second in France, the Netherlands, Greece, Italy and in non-euro Britain and Denmark. Talk of leaving the euro zone is resurfacing. Silvio Berlusconi, a former Italian prime minister, has said Italy and other countries might have to give up the currency unless the ECB loosens monetary policy. And in Finland, a creditor country, a paper published by a group of economists this week suggests that it would be better to leave the euro lest Finland gets dragged into a more federal system with joint liabilities such as Eurobonds. If markets once seemed ready to push the weakest countries out of the euro, now it is voters who may pull their escape cord. With a primary surplus, Greece no longer needs to borrow for itself; so it could now more easily default on its debt. Support for the European project, always fragile, will keep falling if it fails to deliver greater prosperity. Europe's leaders still face testing times. As de Tocqueville put it, "a sovereign who seeks to relieve his subjects after a long period of oppression is lost, unless he be a man of great genius." Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
Toru Hanai/ReutersAlibaba’s recently announced $16 billion IPO has VentureBeat reporters scratching our collective head: Why weren’t more U.S. growth funds involved in Alibaba’s rise to domination? Alibaba has a hand in every game imaginable: Social networking, payments, travel, online commerce, and dozens more. Its own list of investments rivals that of any major VC firm. But somehow, while one U.S. private equity firm (Silver Lake Partners) and Yahoo participated in the mega-giant’s funding, most American firms sat it out. So, why? Why are U.S. investors squeamish on one of the most exciting investment opportunities on planet Earth right now? For many of the folks we spoke to, it comes down to an acknowledged lack of understanding about the Chinese startup market. It’s booming, but it’s hard to know the entire competitive landscape. It’s hard to sniff out a good deal in a less regulated economy. Plus, China has a history of volatility, both socially and politically, that has put a bad taste in many investors’ mouths. As Upfront Ventures partner Mark Suster told VentureBeat, “Of course, there are amazing opportunities for great investments in China. There are also great returns to be had in Brazil, Turkey, Nigeria, etc. But each market requires knowledge of local entrepreneurs, ethics, trading practices, legislation, governmental structures, exit markets, etc. “It’s hard enough to be a great investor when you completely understand the landscape. Stray outside your boundaries with caution. The great investors build great local and international teams. We’re focused on what we’ve done well with for 17 years – U.S. and Europe.” For others, the skittish attitude toward Asian investments is based on something between one-off personal experiences and passed-down horror stories. One investor we spoke to told us he made a single investment in China; in order to get his money out of the deal, he had to engineer a reverse IPO for the startup. Another individual was convinced not to invest in China because of a tip that Chinese entrepreneurs in general were deceptive — advice that comes across as a mix of cautionary tale and casual racism. Of course, this trend has notable exceptions. A handful of U.S. investments in Chinese startups have made our own headlines. ByeCity, a Chinese outbound traveling service, announced in March that it has secured nearly $20 million in financing, in part from Jafco’s Asia arm. An unnamed American VC helped pump $25 million into pet-focused company Boqii, and social marketing service Kmsocial raised tens of millions in February, with participation from Fidelity Growth Partner’s Asia office. Also, mobile game portal Joyme took in a $21.5 million round led by BlueRun Ventures earlier this year. And a handful of megafirms have their own operations in Asia and make frequent investments in China — Mayfield Fund, Khosla Ventures, Kleiner Perkins, and Sequoia Capital, to name a few. Still, other firms tout the risks of investing in Asia, both in private and public companies. From Matthews Asia: Investments in Asian securities may involve risks such as social and political instability, market illiquidity, exchange-rate fluctuations, a high level of volatility and limited regulation. Investing in emerging markets involves different and greater risks, as these countries are substantially smaller, less liquid and more volatile than securities markets in more developed markets. But the sword doesn’t cut both ways apparently. Some harder-to-fund startups are finding gold in China’s hills. According to a report from research firm CB Insights, Chinese firms (and larger companies) are investing in U.S. startups at a record rate. From the report: Between 2007 and 2013 year-to date, China and Taiwan-based investors participated in over 150 deals totaling $2.6 billion. … Among the recent tech investments involving big money from China-based investors are Fab.com’s $150 million Series D in June (Tencent), Quixey’s $50 million Series C (Alibaba Group), and JustFab’s $40 million funding led by Hong Kong-based Shining Capital Management.  With Alibaba forming a venture arm to exclusively invest in the U.S. market and Tencent already investing across the maturity spectrum from Fab’s round at a $1 billion valuation to seed deals, it appears that the rise of Chinese investors in U.S. startups is only getting going. Returning to Alibaba, Homebrew partner Hunter Walk said, “When there’s such tremendous value created, some investors might look backwards on missed opportunities (maybe the chance to have sold a company to them for stock, etc.), but [Chinese investment is] probably more a topic of discussion going forward for some of the larger global investors.” In the meantime, Yahoo, which owns a 40 percent stake in the Chinese giant, will see a huge payday when the IPO happens — which will be as soon as possible, according to Alibaba’s S-1 filing. FREE AppDownload
Step 1: White CrossYou should be able to complete this step just by playing around with the cube.  Make sure that the edges of the cross match the center squares on the adjacent sides.  Step 2: Finish First Layer Step 3: Middle LayerYou may need to move some middle layer edge pieces from the top layer.  Follow the patterns below to get these pieces in the right places.   Business Insider Step 4: Top CornersTo get the corners in the right place you can use this pattern to swap corners until all 4 corners are in the right location.  At this stage they do not need to be facing the right way.  Business Insider To orient corners use a combination of the patterns below.  The first will turn the faces of three corners clockwise.  The next will turn the faces of three faces counter-clockwise.  Business Insider Step 5: Top Layer Edges In The Right PlaceMake sure all the edges are in the right location.  Do not worry if they are facing the wrong way.  Use a combination of the patterns below to move these edge pieces. Business Insider  Step 6: Top Layer Edges Facing The Right WayUse either of the patterns below or a combination to orient these edge pieces correctly. Business Insider
Amanda Macias/Business InsiderThe proposed line would begin in north-east China and run up through Siberia, pass through a tunnel underneath the Pacific Ocean then cut through Alaska and Canada to reach the continental US.Digging a hole to China may not sound as crazy in the near future as it does now. That's because some ambitious Chinese engineers are considering plans to build a high-speed railway line beneath the Pacific Ocean that would connect China with the continental United States.  For some perspective on just how huge such a project would be, it would take 200 kilometers (125 miles) of undersea tunnel just to connect Russia and Alaska, said Wang Mengshu, a railway expert at the Chinese Academy of Engineering, the Beijing Times reported on Thursday. But Wang insisted the idea is not as crazy as it sounds. "Right now, we're already in discussions," Wang said. "Russia has already been thinking about this for many years."  To reach the U.S. from China, it would require 13,000 kilometers of tracks, and it would take a train two days to make the trip if its average speed is 220 miles per hour, according to the Guardian. Jason Lee/ReutersA high-speed train enters Beijing railway station. China’s tunnel technology is ready for the challenge, China Daily reported. The technology is part of China's current plans to build a high-speed railway between the southeastern province of Fujian and the island of Taiwan, which will be funded by China. The trans-Pacific project, named the “China-Russia-Canada-America” line, would require a considerable feat of engineering. If realized, it would be the world’s longest undersea tunnel, four times the length of the Channel Tunnel, which connects England and France. Wang outlined plans for a few other ambitious high-speed railway projects. One project's rail lines would extend from London to Paris, then to Berlin, Warsaw, Kiev and Moscow, where it would split into two routes, with one ending in Kazakhstan and the other in China's Manchuria region. A second project's rail lines would run from Urumqi in China to Central Asia, then to Iran and Turkey, ending in Germany. Construction has begun for both projects inside China, and the parts of both projects outside the country are still being negotiated with foreign governments.   All of the projects are part of China’s drive to take its high-speed railway construction technology abroad. As proof of China's interest in pursuing this goal, on each of his recent visits to other countries, Chinese Premier Li Keqiang made it a habit to recommend Chinese railway construction technology.  Most recently, he recommended the technology to leaders during his four-country visit to Africa this week.  FREE AppDownload
Flickr/PetraToday's young people can retire comfortably with $1 million in the bank. All it takes is starting early, spending 15 minutes a year rebalancing their portfolio, and avoiding financial professionals who are mostly concerned with making themselves money. At least that's the message of William Bernstein, cofounder of investment management firm Efficient Frontier Advisors, who recently published the short ebook "If You Can: How Millennials Can Get Rich Slowly." It clearly resonates. The book, available for free on his website and for 99 cents on Amazon, is being snapped up by readers, and a New York Times story about Bernstein has spent the last several days at the top of the publication's most emailed list. The popular interest seems to be a combination of older people sharing the text with their young family members and unspoken anxiety about saving for retirement, Bernstein tells Business Insider. "Of course, what I'd really like to believe," he says, "is that I've successfully stoked latent public outrage over a retirement system that expects the folks who teach our kids and flip our burgers to somehow, against all odds, manage their retirement portfolios."So how can you get rich slowly? Here's some of Bernstein's advice, excerpted from the ebook with his permission: ***  Would you believe me if I told you that there's an investment strategy that a seven-year-old could understand and that will take you 15 minutes of work per year, outperform 90% of finance professionals in the long run, and make you a millionaire over time?  Well, it is true, and here it is: Start by saving 15% of your salary at age 25 into a 401(k) plan, an IRA, or a taxable account (or all three). Put equal amounts of that 15% into just three different mutual funds:  Over time, the three funds will grow at different rates, so once per year you'll adjust their amounts so that they're again equal. (That's the 15 minutes per year, assuming you've enrolled in an automatic savings plan.)  That's it; if you can follow this simple recipe throughout your working career, you will almost certainly beat out most professional investors. More importantly, you'll likely accumulate enough savings to retire comfortably.  William J. BernsteinInvestment advisor William BernsteinMost young people believe that Social Security won't be there for them when they retire, and that this is a major reason why their retirements will not be as comfortable as their parents. Rest assured that you will get Social Security; its imbalances are relatively minor and fixable, and even if nothing is done, which is highly unlikely in view of the program's popularity, you'll still get around three-quarters of your promised benefit.  The real reason why you're going to have a crummy retirement is that the conventional "defined benefit" pension plan of your parents' generation, which provided a steady and reliable stream of income for as long as they lived, has gone the way of disco. There's only one person who can repair the gap left by the disappearance of these plans, and you know who that is. Unless you act with purpose and vigor, your retirement options may well range between moving in with your kids and sleeping under a bridge in the rain.  Further, the most important word is the IF in the above "if you can follow this simple recipe," because, you see, it's a very, very big if.  At first blush, consistently saving 15% of your income into three index funds seems easy, but saying that you can become comfortably well-to-do and retire successfully by doing so is the same as saying that you'll get trim and fit by eating less and exercising more. People get fat because they like pizza more than fresh fruit and vegetables and would rather watch Monday night football than go to the gym or jog a few miles. Dieting and investing are both simple, but neither is easy. (And I should know, since I've been much more successful at the latter than at the former.)  In your parents' day, the traditional pension plan took care of all the hard work and discipline of saving and investing, but in its absence, this responsibility falls on your shoulders. In effect, the traditional pension plan was an investing fat farm that involuntarily limited calorie intake and made participants run five miles per day. Too bad that, except for the luckiest workers, such as corporate executives and military personnel, these plans are disappearing.  Bad things almost inevitably happen to people who try to save and invest for retirement on their own, and if you're going to succeed, you're going to need to avoid them. To be precise, five bad things — hurdles, if you will — must be overcome if you are to succeed and retire successfully:   People spend too much money. They decide that they need the newest iPhone, the most fashionable clothes, the fanciest car, or a Cancun vacation. Say you're earning $50,000 per year, 15% of which is $7,500, or $625 per month.  In this day and age, that's a painfully thin margin of saving, and it can be wiped out simply by stringing together several seemingly innocent expenditures, each of which might nick your savings by $100 or so per month: a latte per day, a too-rich cable package, an apartment that's a little too tony, a dress or pair of brand-name sneakers you really don't need, a few unnecessary restaurant meals and, yes, an excessive smart phone plan you could, if you had to, not only live without, but also function better without.  Life without these may seem spartan, but it doesn't compare to being old and poor, which is where you're headed if you can't save. You might even save the whole $625 in one fell swoop just by living with a roommate for a while longer, instead of renting your very own place. Again, as bad as having a roomie may be, it's not nearly as awful as living on cat food at age 70. Let's assume you can save enough. You're not home free, not by a long shot. You've got four more barriers to get by. You'll need an adequate understanding of what finance is all about. Trying to save and invest without a working knowledge of the theory and practice of finance is like learning to fly without grasping the basics of aerodynamics, engine systems, meteorology, and aeronautical risk management. It's possible, but I don't recommend it. I'm not suggesting that you need to get an MBA or even read a big, dull finance textbook. The essence of scientific finance, in fact, is remarkably simple and can be acquired, if you know where to look, pretty easily. (And rest assured, I'll tell you exactly where to find it.)  Learning the basics of financial and market history. This is not quite the same as the above hurdle; if learning about the theory and practice of finance is akin to studying aeronautics, then studying investing history is akin to reading aircraft accident reports — something every conscientious pilot does.  The new investor is usually disoriented and confused by market turbulence and the economic crises that often cause it; this is because he or she does not realize that there's nothing really new under the investment sun.  A quote often misattributed to Mark Twain has it that "History doesn't repeat itself, but it does rhyme." This fits finance to a tee. If you don't recognize the landscape, you will get lost. Contrariwise, there's nothing more reassuring than being able to say to yourself, "I've seen this movie before (or at least I've read the script), and I know how it ends."  Overcoming your biggest enemy — the face in the mirror — is a daunting task. Know thyself. Human beings are simply not designed to manage long-term risks. Over hundreds of thousands of years of human evolution, and over hundreds of millions of years of animal development, we've evolved to think about risk as a short-term phenomenon: the hiss of the snake, the flash of black and yellow stripes in the peripheral vision. We were certainly not designed to think about financial risk over its proper time horizon, which is several decades. Know that from time to time you will lose large amounts of money in the stock market, but these are usually short-term events — the financial equivalent of the snake and the tiger. The real risk you face is that you'll be flattened by modern life's financial elephant: the failure to maintain strict long-term discipline in saving and investing.  As an investor, you must recognize the monsters that populate the financial industry. They're very talented chameleons; they don't look like monsters; rather, they appear in the guise of a cousin or an old college friend. They are also self-deluded monsters; most "finance professionals" don't even realize that they're moral cripples, since in order to function they've had to tell themselves a story about how they're really helping their customers. But even if they're able to fool others and often themselves as well, make sure they don't fool you.  Only if you can clear all five of these hurdles can you successfully execute the deceptively simple "three fund strategy" I've outlined above. This excerpt is from "If You Can: How Millennials Can Get Rich Slowly" by William Bernstein. FREE AppDownload
The U.S. $1 bill hasn't had a major redesign since 1929. Mark Anderson, a numismatic consultant for The Museum of American Finance, tells us about the meanings behind the symbols on the iconic note.  Produced by Justin Gmoser; Additional camera by Sara Silverstein  Follow BI Video: On Facebook     
Christian Gheorghe's life is a rags-to-riches story worthy of a Disney movie, and no one is more surprised, or grateful, than he is. He arrived in the U.S. from Communist Romania in the early 1990s speaking no English, with $26 in his pocket. He lived in a youth hostel and drove a limo for a living. Today, he's working on his fourth successful startup, having sold all of his previous ones, including his third one, OutlookSoft, to SAP in 2007 for about $500 million. The trajectory of his life — going from Communist Romania to the U.S. — is truly remarkable. In Romania, he made his living selling music records and taught himself a little bit of English by listening to English music like Pink Floyd, he told Business Insider. When he sold enough records, he bought himself a Commodore 64 knock-off PC, which cost the equivalent of a year's wages. "People asked me, are you crazy?" he laughs. He taught himself to code by hacking into the video games on that machine. He went on to get formal training before he moved to the U.S., a masters degree in Romania in mechanical engineering with a minor in computer science. But the degree wasn't recognized and accepted once he got here. After arriving in the U.S., he stumbled into a job as a limo driver. That's how he met a man named Andrew Saxe, who would ultimately help him launch his new career. During the ride, Saxe learned about Gheorghe's interest in computers and told him to come by his office. Saxe ran a computer software consulting company. He hired Gheorghe, and the two built a company together. That company was one of the earliest that did "big data," though they didn't call it that back then. They sold it to Experian, and Gheorghe found himself CTO for Experian for a few years. He launched a second startup, TIAN, and merged it with a company called OutlookSoft. Then, SAP came along and bought OutlookSoft. OutlookSoft did a form of big data known as business analytics, where companies slice, dice, report, and predict trends in their business by sifting through their financial transactions. OutlookSoft was part of a crop of business analytics companies acquired by big enterprise software vendors around that time: Oracle bought Hyperion, IBM bought Cognos, and SAP bought OutlookSoft. As a result, Gheorghe found himself as a CTO for SAP for a couple of years. About four years ago, the bug to create a new startup hit again and Tidemark was born. It has all the signs of being another golden venture. Tidemark also does business analytics/big data, but it's designed for the modern age: it works on a tablet and runs in the cloud. More importantly, it is designed to be what Gheorghe calls a "revolution at the edge" with a "Siri-like interface." That means business folks can use it without help from their IT departments creating pre-programmed reports. All they have to do is ask Tidemark a question, any question, about how their business is performing like ... Why isn't this product selling? What happens if we assign three more people to this project? What will our sales be next quarter? Tidemark answers with charts and graphs. It even names the people in the company who could help with the project. It's like Google mixed with Wolfram|Alpha, personalized for your job, on your tablet. He's not the only one creating mobile, cloud-based analysis software. For instance, another hot startup, Anaplan, is doing the same and also doing well. Still, Tidemark's approach — ask a question — is different. And it's already attracting attention. In the first 18 months since his product became available, his company is on track to hit $45 million in revenue, Gheorghe told us, growing 300% year over year. It has about 45 customers so far, with, on average, 180 business people at each customer using the product. Tidemark has raised $80 million from Andreessen Horowitz, Greylock Partners, Redpoint Ventures, Silicon Valley Bank, and others. FREE AppDownload
Tim Boyle/Getty ImagesIt's a scenario many taxpayers entertain: What would happen if I was audited? With April 15 in the rear view mirror, some taxpayers are finding out. Still, the odds of being audited are slim: According to the Internal Revenue Service, less than 1 percent of individuals' returns were audited in 2013, and fewer audits are expected this year due to budget cuts. High-income taxpayers and self-employed individuals have the highest chances of being audited, according to Robert McKenzie, a partner at the law firm Arnstein and Lehr LLP in Chicago who previously worked in the collection division of the IRS. Bob Fodera, a partner with ParenteBeard, an accounting firm headquartered in Philadelphia, agrees, adding that taxpayers who have claimed inconsistent deductions over the years are more likely to be audited. And if your spouse has a small business, especially one the IRS considers more of a hobby, that, too, is often a trigger, Fodera says. "I've seen this come up with amateur photographers quite often," Fodera says. So if you've recently received a letter or notice from the IRS informing you that you're being audited, what can you expect – and what should you do? What to expect.  If you're like Elizabeth Safran, 45, who owns a public relations company in New York City and files as a sole proprietor, you will probably feel "fear, later followed by shock," she says, when you receive the letter. When Safran received hers in 2011, she reread it a couple of times. "It was a whole lot of text. I saw the years 2008 and 2009 and Schedule C," Safran recalls. She struck out on her own as a public relations consultant in 2007 and the new, single mom was understandably petrified. But it was the spring of 2011, and she had until July to gather her paperwork and visit the IRS office in midtown Manhattan. While some fear is understandable, don't let it consume you. "The first thing to do is not to be overwhelmed and shut down," says Mike Campbell, a tax partner at BDO USA LLP, a professional services organization headquartered in Chicago. The process.  According to McKenzie, there are three types of audits: correspondence, office exam and field exam. The correspondence audit is conducted through the mail, and it’s common – McKenzie says 80 percent of individual audits are done this way. The office exam requires face time at an IRS office, which is what Safran experienced. "It normally lasts four hours or less, and by necessity, the IRS only reviews limited issues on the return," McKenzie says. The field exam is a comprehensive, thorough audit that strikes fear in the hearts of taxpayers. It's usually held at the taxpayer's place of business, and McKenzie says it involves "hours of intense review and verification by a revenue agent." It’s important to be honest and respond as thoroughly as you can, Campbell says. But he adds: "It's not necessary to volunteer additional information outside of the scope of the audit, as that will only lead to new potential questions and possible expansion of the scope of the audit." You could also end up slowing the process if you throw every bit of information and data you have at your IRS agent, he says. When Safran went to the IRS office, she says she was pleasant and professional and had a feeling the agent appreciated it. After she met her contact, they walked back to an office and passed another office where a taxpayer was shouting, "I paid cash! I didn't pay with receipts!" Read: 8 Errors You're Most Likely to Make on Your Tax Return Don't be that person, Safran suggests. But you shouldn’t be a doormat, either. Richard Houston, a Los Angeles businessman who specializes in website development, says he was audited in 1975 for tuition and related education expenses. "Even though I didn't complete the rest of the courses required for a degree, I was in total compliance with the IRS code and the appropriate regulations," he says. Houston went to his local IRS office armed with a reference book ("U.S. Master Tax Guide," published by CCH) and showed the agent why he believed the deduction was allowable. The agent disagreed. Houston then asked to talk to the supervisor, and after a discussion, the deductions were allowed. "Be prepared and be armed with the truth, because they aren't pushovers," Houston says. What’s the worst that could happen?  That's what everyone wants to know. If you can't show the records requested, will you go to jail? You're probably not going to the clink. "Generally, only in extreme cases of willful negligence and tax evasion does someone end up in jail," Campbell says. But an audit experience could be expensive. "In most audits, the worst that can happen is that the IRS would adjust your return to remove deductions you claimed and can’t substantiate or include income you may have omitted," Campbell says. "Then you would pay the tax due, plus interest from the time that tax should have been paid." That's assuming the IRS feels you’ve been cooperative, because as Campbell says, "The IRS can also choose to assert a 20 percent accuracy-related penalty under Section 6662 if it deems even your mistakes on the return to be egregious or to represent a substantial understatement of your tax liability." And, of course, if you have to hire an attorney or accountant to help you organize paperwork or make your case, that will also require an outlay of funds. Above all, if the IRS comes up with a figure that you owe, don’t neglect to pay. The agency can “garnish wages and put liens against your assets and other avenues to collect the tax, interest and penalty," Campbell says. Advice for the hopelessly disorganized.  Tax experts advise keeping good records in case of an audit, but what if you haven't done that? Michael Raanan, a former IRS revenue officer and president of Landmark Tax Group in Santa Ana, California, says you might have luck gathering records from your employer or previous employers, your bank or financial institution, the IRS (if you've lost your old tax returns), your tax preparer or bookkeeper and your mortgage lender. Types of paperwork to gather include "sales slips, credit card receipts and other proofs of payment, invoices, canceled checks, bank statements and, of course, mileage logs," Raanan says. The logs are very important if you've deducted a lot of miles. "Without a mileage log or a GPS record of mileage incurred, it would be difficult for the IRS to accept all of the miles claimed," Raanan says. See: Avoid These 10 Common Tax Mistakes And, sure, spending all this time on your taxes is, well, taxing, but it’s worth it to be as prepared as possible for your audit. That’s what Safran found. Before her audit, she faced the possibility of owing the IRS $40,000. In the midst of running her business and adjusting to motherhood, she traveled the paper trail, gathered every document she could and asked for an extra month when she realized she needed more time (the IRS obliged). After the three-hour meeting, Safran's tax bill was whittled down to $5,000 since her paperwork supported the numbers on her return. "I think if I had had better documentation, I could have gotten it down to $3,000," Safran adds. This article originally appeared at U.S. News & World Report.  Copyright 2014. Follow U.S. News & World Report on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Getty/Spencer PlattIn 2004, media mogul Martha Stewart was found guilty of obstructing justice and lying to investigators about a stock sale."The line between good and evil is permeable," said psychologist Philip Zimbardo, "and almost anyone can be induced to cross it when pressured by situational forces."  As Zimbardo and other social scientists have shown in a range of experiments, actions we deem evil — cheating, lying, stealing, and worse — don't spring from people's character, but the situations they find themselves in.  To better understand why, we examined research from the fields of psychology and ethics. Here's what we found.  Max Nisen and Aimee Groth contributed to this story.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Antony Njuguna A central conceit of Bitcoin evangelists is that the cryptocurrency could be most useful to "the global unbanked." These are the 575 million individuals in mostly emerging markets who lack access to basic financial services, even a bank account. In principal, the advocates are correct. The time it takes to process a bitcoin transaction — about 10 minutes — is far faster than the three days it would take in the regular banking system. It's also usually cheaper.  But a new survey from trade association GSM shows that even the most promising emerging-market electronic payments technology, mobile money, has only just begun to break out, meaning it could take years to unseat cash as the payment method of choice in the developing world. Mobile money can be used for just about anything. You can buy stuff at a grocery store. You can send and receive money to and from friends and relatives. You can pay and tip your taxi driver. And you can buy phone minutes. To upload or withdraw cash, you need only walk to a mobile money agent.  The granddaddy of mobile money is a service called M-Pesa. Launched in Kenya in 2007, the service was an overnight sensation, and is now used by much the adult population there. Its success is chalked up to close collaboration between the Kenyan government and Safaricom — the unit of Vodafone that operates M-Pesa — that allowed the service to spread. It also began life as a pilot program for microlending, which allowed developers to realize users were tapping the service to send and receive payments instead. After this, there was a huge marketing push. Here's what the homescreen of M-Pesa looks like: REUTERS/Noor Khamis  Here's an M-Pesa stand in downtown Nairobi. This is where you withdraw and deposit money. REUTERS/Noor Khamis Africa and the Middle East processed $5.7 billion in mobile money volume last year. No other country has come close to Kenya in terms of mobile money adoption. Check out this chart showing volume breakdowns. Eastern Africa dwarfs all other regions. East Asia and Pacific, represented by Indonesia, appears to be the next closest. The rest of Africa barely registers. GSM GSM's data data show a strange phenomenon.  The number of registered mobile money accounts nearly tripled to 203 million in June 2013 from 71 million in June 2011. And the number of active users — those who made at least one transaction within the last 90 days — nearly doubled from 2012 to 2013. There are now 218 different providers beyond M-Pesa worldwide.  But of the 203 million registered users, East Africa accounted for 34%, with the vast majority of those being in Kenya. And the number of active mobile money accounts totals just 61 million — barely 30% of total registered users.  Here's the chart: GSM "Activating customers remains a challenge for a large number of services," GSM says. "Even when customers are aware of the service, they may not necessarily understand how they would benefit from using it. Using mobile money represents a significant behavioral change in economies where almost all payment transactions are conducted in cash." In fact, over-the-counter services, where a mobile money agent performs the transactions on behalf of an unregistered walk-in customer, are now the fastest-growing segment of active mobile money users, at a 102% annualized rate, most of it in South Asia.  These services "offer a compelling value proposition for unbanked customers, a segment where literacy levels are often very low and where people tend to be more suspicious of new technologies."   Central bankers and legislators haven't caught up to the inherent promise of mobile money. "Mobile money is a young industry with over 80% of all deployments launched within or after 2010," GSMA director-general Anne Bouverot said in a recent statement. "In order to accelerate the growth of mobile money, we call on telecommunications, financial sector regulators and policymakers to provide a policy and fiscal environment that enables these services to be rolled out successfully to promote a nascent and important driver of commerce and socio-economic development." Within Kenya, M-Pesa has become so ingrained that competitors have struggled to make inroads, meaning innovation has stalled out. "Some people have been using M-Pesa for three, four, five years, and are reluctant to take on new services," Mustafa Golam, a consultant for Nokia in Kenya, told Business Insider. "There's a lot of technology-phobia — very few people will actually try it because they're happy with M-Pesa." GSM also found that remittances — another key Bitcoin selling-point — remain a "marginal service" among mobile money providers, though more seem to be adding them. Providers said they processed fewer than 50,000 international remittances in the month they were surveyed. "While a large number of providers are interested in launching international remittance, major barriers continue to slow down the uptake of this product," GSM says. Instead, the fastest-growing transactions type is bill pay. The largest service overall remains buying more mobile minutes. Here's a breakdown of how mobile money was used in a single month: GSM By GSM's reckoning, many citizens of the developing world have only begun orienting their commercial lives around the promise of mobile money. So it's not surprising that Bitcoin's rollout in the developing world has been sluggish. Here's a chart (used with permission) from a new Coindesk report showing the breakdown of Bitcoin vendors by region: Coindesk  But as with most Bitcoin proponents, those looking to expand its reach, remain utterly undeterred by any of this. Mainly they argue that the same things holding mobile money back will allow Bitcoin to come in.  "Countries where there may be 3 mobile money operators with roughly the same number of subscribers, if that’s the case, then [mobile money] not used widely," Pelle Braendgaard, the outgoing head of Kipochi, a Bitcoin payments app targeted at developing markets, told BI. "As a user, if I want to send money to anyone, I have to have an account with each of these services, so it's just not very practical." He also observes smartphone use is steadily increasing — and indeed Safaricom now says 67% of mobile phones sold in Kenya are smartphones.  What's more, M-Pesa now faces an "innovator's dilemma," in that it's too big and too entrenched to act upon what's on the horizon, Braendgaard continued.  "It's a transitory solution, it’s not a permanent solution," he said. "It’s been very effective but it's extremely primitive — it's showing it's age. ... I don't know how long it will take but I just don't see a particularly large future for it." Aditya Khurjekar, a former Verizon exec, agrees that services like M-Pesa will prove temporary in the long run. Even if it's not Bitcoin itself, a Bitcoin-like payment "rail" that uses a network of computers to confirm transactions  will take over, not just in Africa but everywhere.  "It is a business-model problem," he told BI. "I think what Bitcoin — the cryptocurrency infrastructure, the technology — does, is it makes these artificial constraints irrelevant.  It doesn't matter what geography you’re in, whatever local bank consortium you're in, how quickly they have to settle money, it doesn't really have to follow these artificial constraints." As with most things Bitcoin, it's simply too early to expect a substantial expansion in emerging markets. M-Pesa caught lightning in a bottle thanks in large part to massive backing from a multinational conglomerate. Given that Bitcoin is premised on doing away with such entities, it will likely have to wait a long time to compete. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersZhou scratches his head during a session of the BFA Annual Conference 2014, in QionghaiBEIJING (Reuters) - China will not use any large-scale stimulus to boost its economy, Central Bank Chief Zhou Xiaochuan was reported as saying on Saturday, in response to speculation that authorities might lower reserve requirements for banks to spur growth. Zhou, who was speaking at a closed-door session at the Tsinghua University, was also reported by Phoenix New Media Ltd as saying the central bank would only "fine-tune" its policy to counter economic cycles. There has been market speculation that China may reduce the amount of cash commercial banks must hold as reserves at the central bank to shore up its economic growth, which fell to an 18-month low in the first quarter. (Reporting by Koh Gui Qing; Editing by Clarence Fernandez) FREE AppDownload
As it turns out, you can tell a lot about a person by which smartphone they own. Or so says a new study designed to help better understand smartphone user demographics. Among other revelations, those who are religious, ride public transportation and eat at McDonald's are more likely to own Android devices, according to the research conducted by venture capital firm, Battery Ventures. By contrast, people who own iPhones are more likely to have flown in an airplane in the last year and have investments in the stock market. "You would think iPhone users are all pinot-drinking yoga enthusiasts,"Jonathan Sills, the author of the research, told Re/Code. The statement is half true at least: The study revealed that iPhone owners as a whole prefer wine, while people who own Android phones are more likely to drink beer. Android users are also more likely to identify as religious and smoke tobacco products. There are a few things users of both types of smartphone have in common: Each are equally as likely to buy a gun, own a house and watch Fox News. However, Sills notes that most of these differences go away with the user base is adjusted for income, suggesting that the preferences have little to do with the phones themselves. But for an airline or brewery trying to decide how to allocate its mobile ad budget, the user base demographics are worth keeping in mind. www.inc.com FREE AppDownload
BloombergLakshman AchuthanLakshman Achuthan of the Economic Cycle Research Institute (ECRI) got a lot of praise and attention for predicting recent recessions, which were subsequently confirmed by the NBER. However, it's Achuthan's more recent call that's made him the target of immense criticism. Back in 2011 he said that the U.S. was marching into a recession. And in late 2012, he said that the recession started in mid-2012. Although the NBER hasn't yet told us the economy went into recession, Achuthan is sticking to his call.  Below is Business Insider's exclusive Q&amp;A with Achuthan. The transcript went out to subscribers of our "10 Things You Need To Know Before The Opening Bell" newsletter on Thursday morning. Sign up here to get the newsletter and more of these bonus items in your inbox every day. *** BUSINESS INSIDER: What's everyone getting wrong about the state of the economy right now? LAKSHMAN ACHUTHAN: By second-half 2013, GDP growth was clearly picking up, but key ECRI leading indexes were weakening, pointing to decelerating growth, well before the weather began to worsen. In other words, the second half rebound was unlikely to persist the way a cyclical recovery typically does. So the weakness in U.S. economic growth goes far beyond the weather, and is likely to resurface after the post-weather bounce. That's why, in January, with a near-universal consensus that U.S. growth was about to "take off" and reach "escape velocity," we dissented, saying on CNBC that "We just don't see that when we're looking at the data." A case in point is ECRI's U.S. Leading Construction Index (USLCI), based on which we reported last summer that, with "construction sector growth poised to fall further, there are few drivers of a near-term rebound." Sure enough, year-over-year (yoy) growth in new home sales has plunged deep into negative territory, while yoy investment growth in residential structures has also tumbled, with both at their worst readings in nearly three years. Because both peaked long before the bad weather, it's evident that their cyclical downturns aren't really about the weather, and were correctly anticipated by the USLCI growth downturn, which has actually worsened since last summer. So the popular belief that housing will help drive an acceleration in U.S. growth this year will turn out to be a pipe dream. BI: What do you think is the most worrisome sign in the economy? LA: While the consensus keeps predicting an economy at “escape velocity,” with sustained 3%-plus growth, the reality remains far short of that, with yoy GDP growth hovering around 2% – what one quickly-forgotten Fed paper had called the economy’s “stall speed.” Meanwhile, business investment remains elusive and – as ECRI correctly predicted last summer – construction is decelerating, not accelerating, posing risks to the economy now highlighted by Janet Yellen. In fact, demographics, along with productivity growth averaging less than 1% for the last three years, have helped keep U.S. trend growth so low that the inevitable growth slowdowns are more likely to end in recession. This is the hallmark of the “yo-yo years,” characterized by more frequent recessions than most expect. There’s no indication that this era will end soon, even if we see occasional 3%-plus GDP growth quarters, given that even Japan in its “lost decades” has seen 3%-plus GDP growth in 30% of the quarters since 1990.  BI: What do you think is the most underreported story in the economy? LA: The steepening downturn in home price growth has been obvious in recent months, with yoy growth having peaked last spring for median new home prices, and last summer for median existing home prices.  We predicted this downturn months in advance, over a year ago, and we expect it to continue. BI: You've previously argued that the U.S. economy went into recession in 2012. What's the status of that call? LA: In hindsight, the epicenter of the recession looks to be the half-year spanning Q4 2012 and Q1 2013, which saw just 0.6% annualized GDP growth, mostly from a jump in agricultural inventories. GDP growth for those quarters could easily end up negative after revisions, much of which tend to arrive years after the fact. Nevertheless, just looking at the data in hand, yoy GDP growth during that period fell to lows never seen away from recessions in over half a century. We'll see how the revisions change the picture in retrospect. FREE AppDownload
Andrew Burton/Getty ImagesThere seems to be a new calculus at work in the recent rash of takeovers, as investors set aside their usual wariness of deals and dealmakers for the promise of growth these combinations may bring. We think it’s a good reason to stick with stocks.  Announced global deals have already hit US$1 trillion this year, one of the highest quarterly levels since 1998 and almost double the level announced for the same period a year ago. The action is reaching across industries and continents, which recent announcements including US drugmaker Pfizer’s US$100 billion (and climbing) bid for UK drugmaker AstraZeneca, cable giant Comcast’s proposed acquisition of Time Warner Cable and Apple’s newly revealed talks to buy headphone maker Beat Electronics. This recent wave of M&amp;A mania is hardly shocking. It’s been expected for some time. The market’s response, however, has been a surprise. More often than not, the stocks of both acquirer and acquired have rallied on the news of a combination, friendly or otherwise. But this isn’t the normal reaction. From the early 1990s until the past couple of years, the top quintile of the most acquisitive US companies has trailed the market by about nine percentage points annualized. History is rife with acquisitions gone wrong. Managements overpay or overestimate potential deal synergies. Over the past couple of years, however, the most acquisitive quintile of companies has outperformed the market by almost 15 percentage points annualized. Why the big reversal? Are dealmaking managements suddenly geniuses and careful stewards of capital? Or is something else going on? By our reading, much of this atypical behavior is a reaction to the atypically favorable conditions for accretive deals. For one thing, the bar for evaluating acquisitions has never been lower. The balance sheets of both acquirers and their targets are flush with cash, while the opportunity cost of capital—as measured by the return that companies get on cash—is next to nothing. Likewise, the after-tax cost of debt is very low, owing to historically low interest rates and tight corporate credit spreads. Moreover, the prospective targets of this cheap capital are of unusually high quality. The current yield on Baa-rated US corporate bonds is about 5%, while return on equity for large-cap US stocks is nearly 17%. That translates to a spread of more than 11 percentage points, nearly double the average spread of the past six decades (Display 1). That’s a powerful tailwind for acquirers. blog.alliancebernstein.com For cash-rich US multinationals, tax savings is another major enticement. Instead of repatriating its huge overseas cash hoard, subjecting it to higher US taxes, Pfizer is proposing to use that cash to finance its takeover of AstraZeneca and reincorporate the new, combined company in the UK. Britain’s lower tax rate and other potential breaks could save Pfizer US$1 billion or more annually. Since 2008, about two dozen American companies have used this strategy to shift their legal residence abroad via acquisition. The main concern of the stock market is growth. By our calculations, stocks are pricing in far less earnings growth than the 6% long-term average, while the share of market valuation accounted for by future growth remains well below average (Display 2). blog.alliancebernstein.com In our view, this is precisely why M&amp;A activity is being so rewarded today. It reduces the uncertainty as to how surplus capital will get put to work and, with the cost of capital so low, raises the odds that acquisitions can boost future earnings growth. It all works because the spread between the cost of debt and the return for investing in equity is so wide. Company managements will find ways to close that gap if the market does not do it for them. And with the equity risk premium (the extra compensation earned for investing in stocks relative to bonds) still well above the long-term average, we think stocks—particularly undervalued stocks—remain the best bet for investors. The views expressed herein do not constitute research, investment advice or trade recommendations and do not necessarily represent the views of all AllianceBernstein portfolio-management teams. Joseph G. Paul is Chief Investment Officer of US Value Equities at AllianceBernstein (NYSE:AB). FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersAn Alfa Romeo 4C is pictured at a media event at the Jacob Javits Convention Center during the New York International Auto Show in New YorkDETROIT (Reuters) - Actor Dustin Hoffman made Alfa Romeo trendy for Americans by driving a red Spider 1600 in the 1967 movie "The Graduate," but Alfa sales never took off in the North American market and the company ultimately pulled out. Fiat Chrysler Automobiles, Alfa's current owner, this week revealed a strategy for the sporty Italian brand to race from zero to 150,000 sales in just four years. But industry experts, some citing the more than two decades it took Volkswagen's &lt;VOWG_p.DE&gt; Audi brand to achieve that market level, say the plan is overly ambitious. "It is mathematically possible for Alfa to sell 150,000 in North America by 2018, but so is winning the lottery," LMC Automotive analyst Jeff Schuster said. Chief Executive Sergio Marchionne and his team revealed their strategy for Alfa Romeo on Tuesday as part of a five-year plan to establish Fiat Chrysler as a strong global automaker. But Fiat SpA's &lt;FIA.MI&gt; shares fell so quickly on Wednesday that trading in them was suspended briefly. Critics of the Alfa rejuvenation plan, including investors, industry analysts and bankers, cite concerns about distribution, the challenge of bringing eight new models to market in such a short time frame and the intense competition of the market. This is not the first time Marchionne said Alfa was coming to the United States. In January 2013, he said "for sure" it would return that year with the 4C sports coupe. The car is now expected to make it to the U.S. market later this year, followed by a higher-volume model in late 2015. Industry observers say Marchionne had better have his back-up plan ready. "One hundred fifty thousand sales; what's Lincoln doing this year? And they're trying," said a banker who asked not to be named, referring to Ford's luxury brand, which sold about 82,000 vehicles last year. Fiat's plan depends on several elements that leave observers cold, starting with selling Alfa vehicles through Fiat show-rooms. "Alfa will only work if it's got a dedicated facility or it is paired with another luxury brand," said Jim Ziegler, a U.S. auto dealer consultant. "You can't have the same sales team selling $17,000 cars from one brand and $60,000 cars from another. It just doesn't work that way." Fiat Chrysler is expected to sell Alfas at its best-performing Fiat dealers, as well as high-end Maserati dealers. Fiat dealers number 344 in North America, while Maserati locations total 91. Harold Wester, CEO for Alfa and Maserati, raised eyebrows when he said eight new Alfa models would be introduced from late 2015 through 2018. "They've got to develop in the space of four years an entire portfolio of vehicles," AutoTrends analyst Joseph Phillippi said. "That's a huge engineering challenge." While the U.S. luxury market is growing, the competition is fierce. Mirko Mikelic, senior portfolio manager for Clear Arc Capital, said it is hard to believe Alfa Romeo "will come in and start muscling out" rivals. Among them are well-established brands such as Daimler's &lt;DAIGn.DE&gt; Mercedes-Benz and BMW &lt;BMWG.DE&gt;, which are only making it tougher for competitors as they push down market to vehicles starting as low as $30,000, analysts and bankers say. Alfa's planned North American return after leaving in 1996 was preceded by the re-introduction of Fiat in 2011. However, sales of the subcompact Fiat 500 have disappointed and Fiat dealers are struggling with only two models to sell. Fiat sales in the United States and Canada were about 51,000 last year. In acknowledging that the company's overall plan for the 2014 to 2018 period is aggressive, Marchionne said he understood Wednesday's nearly 12 percent drop in the stock price. "We've had a phenomenal run in 2014 ... and I am not surprised that people took some money off the table," he said. Marchionne also said he can "pull the plug" on the plan to invest 5 billion euros ($7 billion) to remake Alfa. That did not make investors feel any better about an overall plan that includes the goal of boosting annual global sales by about 60 percent from 2013 to 7 million vehicles. Fiat Chrysler also intends to boost its U.S. market share to 15.8 percent from 11.4 percent last year. That would position it for second place, and analysts and bankers say Ford Motor Co &lt;F.N&gt; and Toyota Motor Corp &lt;7203.T&gt; will not let anyone pass them without a fight. Even believers know they are taking a chance. "Whoever bets on Fiat today, bets on a possibility, on a potential," said Roberto Lottici, fund manager at Ifigest. (Additional reporting by Ben Klayman and Agnieszka Flak in Detroit; Editing by Dan Grebler) FREE AppDownload
