Earlier this week, EPI economist Heidi Shierholz spoke on a Congressional Full Employment Caucus panel about policy fixes to the nation’s long-term unemployment crisis, convened by Rep. Conyers (D-Mich.). Other panelists included Betsey Stevenson, Member of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, and Judy Conti, Federal Advocacy Coordinator at the National Employment Law Project. Below is an excerpt of her comments, which explain why we remain in a long-term unemployment crisis, why the long-term unemployed will continue to face tough job odds without substantial policy intervention, and what can be done to address it. The Great Recession officially ended five years ago this month, but the labor market has made only agonizingly slow progress towards full employment. We’ve had an unemployment rate of 6.3 percent or more for more than five and a half years; as a reminder, the highest the unemployment rate ever got in the early 2000s downturn was 6.3 percent, for one month. And even this headline unemployment rate probably overstates the true degree of labor market weakness, as it has fallen in large part in recent years because people have left the labor force in large numbers—and not just voluntary retirees. If the job market improves in coming years, it is very likely that many of these “missing workers” will return. Because of the ongoing weakness in the labor market, long-term unemployment remains extremely elevated. Though the labor market is headed in the right direction, unemployed workers still vastly outnumber job openings in every major industry, and the prospects for job seekers remain dim. The labor force is comprised of employed people and jobless people who are actively seeking work. Before the Great Recession started, just 0.7 percent of the labor force was unemployed long-term. That shot up to 4.4 percent by the spring of 2010, and has since dropped part-way back to 2.2 percent. This may not sound high on the face of it, but it is still three times higher than what it was before the recession began and represents 3.4 million long-term unemployed workers. Furthermore, outside of the Great Recession and its aftermath, it is higher than at any other time in more than 30 years, including the entirety of the two recessions prior to the Great Recession. Importantly, it is also far higher than any period in the past when Congress has decided to end extended unemployment benefits. In short, we remain in a long-term unemployment crisis, even if you wouldn’t know it judging from too many policymakers’ actions. It is important to note that there’s no real puzzle as to why long-term unemployment is high: economic growth remains extraordinarily weak. And this weakness is driven simply by an ongoing shortfall of aggregate demand (spending by households, businesses, and governments) relative to potential output. FREE AppDownload
Newly minted billionaire Nicholas Woodman has generously shared GoPro's success with his whole family. With GoPro's big IPO on Thursday, they all became millionaires. Although he worked hard for his success, it's not a rags-to-riches story. He grew up in Silicon Valley and his father was an investment banker  who invested and helped him raise funds for GoPro along the way. He and his then girlfriend (now wife) bootstrapped the money he needed to build a prototype, and his mom also kicked in an initial $35,000 loan. Both of his sisters went to work for the company, too. They've all been paid back in droves. As of Thursday's closing price of $31.34, its first day of trading, this is how they all made out, according to documents filed with the SEC:  Sister Pilar Woodman owns a total of 562,433 shares worth $17.6 million. She also sold 88,000 shares, likely at the share price set Wednesday night of $24. That would give her $2.1 million in cash. She's worked for GoPro since 2011, the company says. His mom, Concepcion Federman, owns 285,000 shares worth over $8.9 million. She sold 15,000 shares, gaining $360,000 cash if she sold at $24. Ditto for his stepfather Irwin Federman. So that's nearly $17.9 million in net worth for both of them, plus another, perhaps, $720,000 in cash. His sister Andrea Moody, who has worked at GoPro since 2009, owns 972,000 shares, worth nearly $30.5 million. She sold 108,000 shares with the IPO. At $24, that adds up to almost $2.6 million cash. His dad, Dean Woodman, cashed out millions from GoPro back in 2011, when he sold $6.8 million worth of stock to investors. He didn't sell more as part of the IPO, so he still owns nearly 7.25 million shares, one of the largest individual shareholders, with a 6% stake. That's worth $227.4 million as of close of business Thursday. Clearly the entire Woodman family clearly had a very good day. FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Argus Leader, Elisha PageFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. GMO's Inker Explains A Big Flaw In Traditional Glide Path Investing (Morningstar) In traditional glide path approach an investors asset allocation becomes more conservative as they get older. But this isn't the best approach according to Ben Inker at GMO told Morningstar's Kevin McDevitt. "I think the biggest concern we have about the traditional way putting together a glide path is it's assuming that you're always getting paid the same amount for taking risk," Inker said. "It's assuming that stocks are always at fair value and bonds are always at fair value. "And one thing that's pretty clear is valuations matter, and we think it's not reasonable to say, "I'm 25 years old; I can afford to take a lot of risk." That's fine. But if you're not getting paid for taking a risk, don't take it. And by the same token, even if you're a 75-year-old well into retirement, if bond yields are really low, and stocks are cheap, you should own some stocks. "I think the most important problem is that they don't respect the fact that valuations change, and as valuations change your portfolio should change, as well." There Are Very Few Bargains For Those Looking To Buy Bonds (BlackRock) BlackRock is out with its mid-year update to "The List" — five things investors should know for the rest of the year, and five things they should do. One key thing they point out is that interest rates maybe be low but they are trending up. With that in mind, they point out that there are "very few bargains" for those looking to buy bonds.  "All told, navigating the bond market remains very difficult, but bonds are an important source of income and play a vital role in a portfolio," according to BlackRock. "Our advice: Choose wisely. Some areas of the bond market are more vulnerable to rising rates than others. Shorter-maturity bonds, which are used as cash alternatives by many investors, could face greater upward movement in yields and resulting principal losses. this may surprise some investors, making that an area to approach with caution. "With yields likely to be volatile, and some areas of the bond market feeling the effects more so than others, a flexible, go-anywhere bond portfolio that can make adjustments on the fly is an invaluable addition to your fixed income toolkit." 66% Of Investors Think There Is Room For More ETFs In The Market (Charles Schwab) The 2014 ETF Investor Study by Charles Schwab found that 66% of investors think there is room for more exchange traded funds (ETFs). 46% said they plan to increase their ETF investments in the next year. "It’s clear that investors expect innovation and choice when it comes to ETFs, but that enthusiasm is coupled with a desire for a deeper understanding of how to choose and use the products," Heather Fischer at Charles Schwab said in a press release. “Although 40 percent of investors still consider themselves ETF novices, that group has been steadily shrinking and is down from 45 percent in 2013. What this means is that education remains a top priority but as ETF investors are becoming increasingly savvy, they are seeking products, strategies and access that go beyond the basics.” Women's Role In Wealth Creation And Decision Making Is Growing (US Trust) Women are taking on a bigger role in wealth creation, according to US Trust's Wealth and Worth report that surveyed 680 high net worth individuals (HNWI). 52% of high net worth couples said women entered the relationship with financial assets that were equal to or more than their partner. But men were still dominant when it came to making financial decisions. 60% of high net worth couples say men still dominate investment decision making, but women are sharing the process in about 30% of households, and taking the lead in 10%. Job Satisfaction Is High Among Advisors, But So Is Stress (Financial Planning) 79% of advisors surveyed by Adhesion Wealth Advisors Solutions ranked their job stress level at 7 out of 10, reports Maddy Perkins at Financial Planning. This despite high job satisfaction among respondents. "Pessimistically, it just seems like a lot of things aren't adding up in terms of the economy with how the markets are behaving," Richard Dragotta, an advisor with LPL Financial told Perkins. "The opportunities are less and less, and more people are trying to catch the tail of something. Making new highs all the time is stressful, and having less and less conviction to come up with solutions for clients makes it a little more stressful." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/John GressUnited States Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen speaks at the 2014 National Interagency Community Reinvestment Conference in Chicago, March 31, 2014.  Late last month, the Federal Reserve (Fed) revised its interest rate forecasts due to expectations of faster economic growth, raising its projections for the federal funds rate in 2015 and 2016. The Fed may be anticipating a need to normalize rates sooner than many market watchers expect is good news. Why? In my opinion, excessively low rates may actually be inhibiting U.S. economic growth and job creation in these five unintended ways. Older workers are delaying retirement and staying in the workforce.Excessively low rates are making it expensive for individuals to retire, as potential retirees view investment income generation from fixed income products as too meager to support a reasonable standard of living. As older people are staying in the workforce longer, they’re crowding out younger workers and stunting the job prospects of the young. Companies can’t gauge the true level of U.S. economic growth so they’re holding off on committing capital. Persistently easy policy has masked organic economic conditions, making it difficult for company leaders to gauge the true level of U.S. economic growth, i.e. growth in the absence of extraordinary monetary policy. As a result, corporations are waiting for greater certainty regarding underlying economic conditions before committing capital, and they’re delaying or reducing investment and hiring, and growing their cash balances. Companies are taking advantage of extremely easy corporate financing conditions at the expense of reinvesting in organic business growth. Given current low-rate conditions and very cheap financing costs, many companies have been using debt issuance to aggressively buy back their stock or pay dividends. But while this debt/equity arbitrage may improve earnings-per-share growth, equity prices, and perhaps even flatter the performance of some corporate management teams, it may well be stunting growth-oriented capital projects. Inflation emanating from building wage pressure may be more difficult to contain than the Fed anticipates. In recent years, the labor market has split into two segments thanks to a mismatch between the skills required for jobs and the skills that workers have – those with appropriate skills are getting jobs and those without such skills are making up the long-term unemployed. Given this job opening-worker skill mismatch, since the Fed began its monetary easing efforts, job openings have increased, and the cyclical component of U.S. unemployment has improved. As a result, though significant wage gains for workers have been lacking and long-term unemployment remains a problem, wages are trending higher for those workers with the appropriate, desired skills. This wage inflation could potentially continue for several years and raises the possibility of higher levels of inflation in the medium term. It’s also worth noting that the U.S. capacity utilization rate is currently hovering around a post-recession high of 79%. The last time capacity utilization was at today’s levels the Consumer Price Index (CPI) sat at 3.5%, not today’s near-zero levels, another sign that higher levels of inflation could be on the way: Capital is being misallocated. Finally, unconventional monetary policy of recent years has encouraged significant bouts of capital misallocation, resulting in crowded trades, correlated risks and the overly stretched valuations seen in markets today. These in turn, are increasing systemic risk, raising the potential for a violent capital unwinding. To be sure, despite the Fed’s recent rate projection revisions, interest rates are still likely to remain historically low for the foreseeable future. That said, I welcome signs that the Fed may be anticipating a need to raise rates sooner than previously expected, opening the door to merely “easy” monetary policy from “excessively easy” policy. Given the five unintended consequences I highlight above, I’ve grown skeptical of the usefulness of excessively low policy rate levels, which may now be harmful to the U.S. economy and labor market. The utility of the Fed’s zero interest rate policy is now exceeded by the costs, similar to what happened to quantitative easing before it. The bottom line: As I’ve mentioned before, select fiscal initiatives (like training to help address the job opening-worker skill mismatch) would be significantly more beneficial to the economy and labor market than continuing overly-easy interest rate policy. Source: BlackRock Research  Rick Rieder, Managing Director, is BlackRock’s Chief Investment Officer of Fundamental Fixed Income, is Co-head of Americas Fixed Income, and is a regular contributor to The Blog.  You can find more of his posts here. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Tim ShafferA view of the Dupont logo on a train car at the Dupont Edge Moor facility near Wilmington, Delaware.DuPont has cut its earnings outlook, and the main culprit? The weather. And Soybeans. From DuPont: "The revised outlook in Agriculture reflects lower than expected corn seed sales and higher than expected seed inventory write-downs. Given favorable soybean economics, soybean sales volumes in North America are higher than expected. However, the higher soybean volume will not fully offset the decline in corn volume, especially given the transition under way in the company's soybean lineup to newer, higher performing products. The company believes this is a short-term negative trend, and there will be strong demand for its next generation soybean products. The revised outlook also reflects lower than expected crop protection herbicide sales, largely due to weather." DuPont said that for the full year, it expects to earn $4.00 to $4.10 per share, with the company saying that most of this weakness coming in its Agriculture segment. Current analysts' expectations are for earnings of $4.30 per share.  Yesterday, the third Q1 GDP revision showed the economy contracted an estimated 2.9% during the quarter. Most of the U.S. endured an historically harsh winter this year, which many are blaming for the disappointing GDP.  In after hours trade, shares of DuPont were down more than 2% following the announcement.  DuPont's agricultural rival Monsanto rallied more than 5% yesterday after it reported better than expected quarterly earnings.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucy NicholsonA quick search of "Best Cities for Millennials" yields thousands of results, and these articles tend to fall into two types of categories.  The first group highlights all the negative numbers released by the most recent census or unemployment report in an attempt to scare young people.  The second type generally delineates the cultural habits of millennials, showing that there is more to them than unemployment numbers suggest. We've decided to combine the two types into one comprehensive list of the "19 Best Cities for Millennials". On the one hand, we examine the unavoidable realities of being a young adult in the United States, including rising housing and rent prices, unemployment rates, the cost of living, and crime rates. On the other hand, we consider cultural appetites such as the entertainment and sports scenes, the average costs of beer, and where to find the best pizza in America. (Because, pizza.) We combined all these variables into a valuation function to determine a Value According to Millennials Score, or VAM Score. The city that scored the lowest is number 19, and the city that scored the highest is number 1. If you want to read more about how we came up with these numbers, click here. Otherwise, click on the slide show to see the 19 Best Cities for Millennials. FREE AppDownload
In April, Huang Shan, a shareholder in the Kimren Group, one of Macau's top high-roller promoters, took $1.3 billion worth of the company's money and vanished. Now Macau's entire junket funding system is facing a crisis of faith that could change the face of Asia's gambling mecca as we know it. "It's been a great ride — up until the point this $1.3 billion was stolen," says Jason Ader, founder of hedge fund SpringOwl and an investor in Macau's gaming industry. "All the sudden investors and junket operators were facing a loss, and the prospect that these returns are not guaranteed." That's when Macau had what Ader calls its "Lehman Brothers moment." To understand why this is such a shake-up, you have to understand how China's real high-rollers in Macau play. They go to VIP rooms to bet big, and those rooms are operated by junkets (the junkets can also be called VIP junket operators or VIP room promoters). The gamblers get treated like royalty, and the junkets make money from their games. Win or lose, the junkets take a cut of every wager placed in a game. That's called "rolling chip volume." In this model, investors in these junkets make 1% to 2% "guaranteed returns". Huang, the guy who made off with $1.3 billion, was guaranteeing investors an unheard of 2.5%. When Huang disappeared with all that cash, though, investors started to demand more return for their risk. Plus, there was less money flying around to host games, so there was less money being made off the gamblers. "Investors started to think — 'maybe this isn't worth all the brain damage,'" said Ader. As a result of this crisis of faith, some small-listed junket firms have taken a beating. Over the last year, one junket listed on the Nasdaq, Iao Kun Group Holding Company Limited (formerly known as Asia Entertainment &amp; Resources), is down 20%. There is, however, a bright shining light here. China's middle class is ascending and becoming a higher-margin customer for casinos. Mass-market gamblers led the charge in Macau's 20% year-over-year revenue surge last quarter. The completion of infrastructure projects like the bridge between Macau and Hong Kong and a high-speed rail connection to the mainland will ensure that more of them can go to Macau and play. So instead of Macau being a haven for gangsters and high rollers, it'll be like Las Vegas now — a city of watered-down sin with kiddie pools and Celine Dion shows. FREE AppDownload
Jiss | Dreamstime.com Unless you're a wine connoisseur, finding the right bottle can be tricky. It's generally accepted that the more expensive a bottle of wine, the better it is. However, Ryan O'Connell from Nakedwines.com says belief is prompting winemakers to up their prices, sometimes unreasonably so. Nakedwines.com is a customer-funded winery that helps independent winemakers set up a business.  O'Connel, a marketing manager-turned winemaker says that the day he entered the production side of wine, he began spotting patterns — ways that winemakers could potentially take advantage of consumers. Here are three main indicators he gave us to tell whether or not you're paying too much for a bottle of wine. 1. Award competitions It doesn't take much to convince the average wine buyer that a medal means high-quality.  "In the industry, we all know that medals and competitions of that sort, especially in the U.S., are pretty much luck-based. So many competitions award medals to 80 percent of the entrants, that it's just kind of a money machine for the people running the competition," O'Connell says. "Those medals are worth about as much as the blue ribbon on a PBR." He says that large production wines can pay a lot of fees to rack up awards in easy competitions. Good indicators of a trustworthy wine competition include locality, a diverse panel of judges and a low percentage of awards. Several good competitions O'Connell mentioned were the North Coast Wine Challenge and the International Wine Challenge. 2. Bottle packaging Like most products, winemakers can get away with higher pricing just by spending more on the packaging. To tell if you're paying for the packaging or the wine, O'Connell recommends feeling the weight of the bottle first. He says some companies use heavier bottles to make people subconsciously spend more. Another embellishment winemakers add is the punt, or the indent on the bottom of the bottle. Luxury wine punts usually measure about 1.5 inches, which means more money spent on design. Although larger punts make for more stable shipping, O'Connell says it's a pretty good indicator of how much effort was put into the packaging. Even things opacity and color of the glass can cost extra. O'Connell says once you've noticed the differences once, it becomes easier to pick them out in the store. "If you're buying wine for $10-15 and it's got expensive packaging, you're probably putting more money into the packaging than the grapes. If you spend $100, then there's a fair chance that the winemaker just spent a ton of money on the fruit, AND a ton of money on the packaging," he says. 3. Regional acclaim When buying wine from a famous region, you're paying for the region's brand just as you're paying for the bottle. "If a region is really world-famous, then it's probably spent a lot of money achieving that world fame," O'Connell says. "Then everything gets more expensive as a result of that marketing expense." Not that those regions don't deserve their reputation. But O'Connell believes that it's hard to extricate the costs of the marketing from the costs of actual wine production. As a work around, O'Connell suggests finding a region nearby that makes a similar style of wine. You may end up paying a quarter of the price you'd find for a celebrity region. For beginners, find some local wine stores. Talk one-on-one to winemakers who can open up some bottles and let you taste their wines. Once you familiarize yourself with the different regions and their tastes and prices, you'll be able to better understand what you're getting with your money. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike SegarGoPro founder and CEO Nick Woodman holds a GoPro camera in his mouth as he celebrates GoPro Inc's IPO at the Nasdaq Market Site in New York City, June 26, 2014.Stocks were lower, but closed well off their worst levels, as the market recovered from an early session tumble to close little change. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories of the day: 1) Weekly jobless claims fell to 312,000 from last week's revised reading of 314,000. Expectations were for 310,000. Following the report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro said, "In one line: Trend hits a new cycle low... Slightly disappointing given relatively favorable seasonals but the weekly data are noisy and the eight-week moving average dipped to a new cycle low of 313.4K, down from 344.5K at the same point last year. The decline in the trend is consistent with a clear acceleration in payroll gains to something close to 250K. That's not our June forecast — not least because the seasonals for this month look very odd and could generate a soft-looking number — but we think it's a reasonable expectation for Q3, given the clear strengthening in the small business sector, where most net new jobs are created." 2)  The Bureau of Economic Analysis released its latest Personal Income and Outlays report, which showed personal spending in May increased 0.2%, below expectations for 0.4%.  The report showed that personal income grew 0.4%, in line with estimates. The report also included core PCE, the Federal Reserve's preferred measure of inflation, which showed prices rose 1.5% year-over-year, excluding the cost of food and fuel. Following the report, Cooper Howes at Barclays said the softer-than-expected personal spending lowered his Q2 GDP tracking estimate to 2.9% from 4%. Following the spending and inflation report, Chris Rupkey, chief financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ said, "Don't start betting on those 3% GDP numbers yet, but the report on July 30 will have the annual benchmark revision so the story could still change. Basically, current labor market conditions are fully normal, with unemployment claims at 312K, but the Fed is worried about those left behind, the long term unemployed. Is inflation enough of a worry for them? Not yet probably, PCE inflation is 1.8% today and core PCE inflation is 1.5%. However, the economy is moving forward and rates are very low, so we still expect the Fed to start raising rates by June next year because they have a long way to go. Until then, sit back and relax. The market isn't going anywhere." 3) In the U.K., the Bank of England announced two measures to amend lending standards for mortgages in an effort to limit risks to financial stability from an increase in household indebtedness. The announcement from the BoE comes two weeks after BoE Governor Mark Carney said the central bank could raise rates before the market expects. Housing prices in the U.K. were up 9.9% year-over-year in April, which housing prices in London exploding, gaining 18.7% over last year.  4) The Japanese government could be putting pressure on Tesla sales. BI's Rob Wile reports that a new measure announced by the Japanese government, which is set to provide additional support for the country's fuel-cell vehicle industry, could indirectly pressure sales of Tesla. Tesla' per-capita penetration of electric vehicles in Japan matches what it enjoys in the U.S. 5) GoPro, which sells wearable cameras, made its debut on the Nasdaq today, and shares of the company climbed more than 30% to close above $31 after the initial public offering priced at $24 last night. 6) Barclays shares fell more than 7% after New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman filed a fraud lawsuit against the firm due to misrepresentations it made regarding its "dark pool" trading venue.  7) The U.S. lost to Germany 1-0 in its final group stage game at the World Cup, but after Portugal defeated Ghana, the U.S. will advance to the knockout stage for the second straight World Cup.  Don't Miss: 27 Facts About The Global Economy That Every Investor Should Know » FREE AppDownload
Bespoke Investment GroupWe've been talking a lot about volatility in the market. Or more specifically, the lack of volatility in markets. The S&amp;P 500 hasn't moved more than 1% up or down during any session this month, and the Dow has only gained or loss 100 points three times.  U.S. investors, and particularly folks on Wall Street, may want more volatility, but be careful what you wish for.  Bespoke Investment Group has put out a list of the 40 most volatile stock markets in the world. The markets seeing the most volatility these days have dealt with government debt defaults, overheated housing markets, bank runs, and nearly 27% unemployment. Topping Bespoke's list over the last month is Argentina, with two United Arab Emirates markets, Greece, Bulgaria, and Russia also experiencing large gyrations. Argentina, which had been embroiled in a fight with hedge funders over debt it had been refusing to pay, had its case tossed by the Supreme Court and will be forced to pay. The day of the Supreme Court's decision, Argentina's stock market fell 12%. Dubai has been dealing with an overheated property market, and earlier this week saw its stock market sell off sharply. Last Friday, Bulgaria was forced to takeover its fourth-largest bank, Corporate Commercial Bank, following a run on the bank. Russia has been dealing with the situation in Ukraine. And Greece is still, well, Greece. Investors may be clamoring for more action in the market, but this kind of serious volatility typically comes at a steep price. FREE AppDownload
BlackRock is out with its mid-year update to "The List" — five things investors should know for the rest of the year, and five things they should do. "The first half of the year was filled with surprises that few could have foreseen—and yet markets seemed not to notice, carrying on with gusto," according to BlackRock. "While we don’t believe we are entering a calm-before-the- storm environment, there are certainly factors that argue against complacency in the second half." Three of the 10 jump out at us. 1. Interest rates are trending up: "In one of the year’s biggest surprises, interest rates fell rather than rose as most (ourselves included) had anticipated," according to the folks at BlackRock. "...With the economy rebounding, and the Fed still unwinding its bond purchase program, interest rates should begin to inch up again. More precisely, we believe the 10-year treasury could rise about 50 basis points (or half of one percent) over the second half of the year." 2. Inflation is finally picking up: The rise in producer and consumer prices suggests that inflation has bottomed out. Though inflation is low by historic standards "inflation erodes the value of your investments, and with bond yields still quite low, investors need to ensure some level of inflation protection is built into their portfolios," according to BlackRock. "This again argues for a preference for stocks and other growth-oriented investments." 3. Stocks are expensive but they're "still the best place to be": Stocks are expensive but they're not in a bubble. "The stock market can still move higher this year, and we continue to favor investing in stocks over bonds, but we would be cautious," according to BlackRock. "We would focus on those areas of the market that offer good value and downside protection. that means favoring large- and mega-cap stocks, as well as cyclical sectors like energy and international strategies. We would avoid, or trim positions in, small caps, retailers and the consumer discretionary sector." Here's the rest of the list. Read the full report here »   BlackRock FREE AppDownload
Mauirizio Pesce/flickr The Japanese government has announced measures that could indirectly pressure Tesla sales in Japan.  On Tuesday, Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said his administration would begin providing additional support to the country's fuel-cell vehicle industry, as part of his overall growth plan. It's something of an unusual move, given that Japan is the world's second-largest market for plug-in vehicles.   We recently wrote about the burgeoning civil war in the renewable fuels world between charge-batteries and fuel cells. Tesla CEO Elon Musk called them "fool cells" at the company's annual meeting earlier this month.  This announcement is the latest chapter in that struggle, and it coincides with news out of Toyota that it would be releasing a Camry-sized hydrogen fuel cell in Japan for next year.  The new sedan will be priced at $69,000 (or ¥7 million) — exactly $1,000 lower than the price of a Tesla Model S. That is unlikely to have been a coincidence, according to Lisa Jerram, senior research analyst at Navigant Research. "It does seem as though they're attempting to compete in that category," she told BI, noting that the $69,000 price tag is actually lower than the $100,000 initially floated.  Japan's per-capita penetration of electric vehicles matches the U.S.'s, according to HybridCar's Jeff Cobb, and last year, Tesla was the only U.S. automaker to show at the Tokyo's Motor Show.  Despite this seeming opportunity for the California firm, plug-ins may soon face pricing pressure in Japan. Jarrem said the country has been ramping up fuel-cell production for its electric generation sector in the wake of the Fukushima disaster. The size of Abe's subsidies for fuel-cell vehicles weren't announced, but the goal is to have the sector generating 1 trillion yen ($9.8 billion) in revenue by 2030. To do so, he's set a target of bringing fuel-cell car prices down to $20,000 by 2025.  Meanwhile, in a note this week, Morgan Stanley's Adam Jonas confirmed that half the auto industry seems to be abandoning electric vehicles in favor of fuel-cell vehicles, the result of chicken-and-egg-esque forces of flagging demand and a half-hearted commitment to building out the necessary plug-in infrastructure. The broader goal, he says, is to get governments to respond accordingly. "We see the [fuel-cell vehicle] push as a diversionary tactic to slow down, if not completely reset, a regulatory framework scripted to support mass adoption of EVs that don’t appear ready for prime time," he wrote.  It seems to be working in Japan. FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Joan MarcusOne major trend to emerge from the housing bust was the decline in US household formation.  The US homeownership rate fell to 65.1% in 2013, the lowest since 1995, and declining for the ninth straight year. On the back of poor employment opportunities, young adults were forced to move back in with their parents. This along with a slowdown in immigration hurt household formation.  "Indeed, some 2.1 million more adults in their 20s and 300,000 more adults in their 30s lived with their parents in 2013 than if the shares living at home had remained at 2007 levels," according to a new paper from the Joint Center for Housing Studies of Harvard University. While many with jobs are still living at home, there is a silver lining, there is one inevitable trend that will help the housing market: 20-29 year olds will move out. From the paper (emphasis ours): "The fact that these delayed moves have held back household growth in recent years has fed hopes that the housing market recovery would accelerate once employment growth revived and younger adults were able to get jobs. This rebound has yet to occur, even though many living at home are now employed. "Historically, however, the share of adults living with their parents drops sharply after age 24 and continues to fall to 6 percent by the mid- to late 30s. Regardless of the economic setbacks they may have experienced, today’s 20–29 year olds are still likely to follow the same pattern. Assuming current headship rates hold, the number of households in their 30s should therefore increase by 2.7 million over the next decade and provide a strong lift to the rental and starter home markets." Harvard Joint Ccenter For Housing StudiesEarlier this month we pointed out that 55.3% of 18-24-year-olds lived at home last year, compared with 56.2% in 2012.  "In particular, data from the Current Population Survey, which includes extensive information on both the number and characteristics of US households over time, suggest that more young adults are now finding it feasible to move out," Michael Gapen at Barclays said in a note at the time. So, it might not be a change we see overnight, but housing is set to get a nice boost in the coming years. FREE AppDownload
Wall Street's rates traders will see the biggest cuts in compensation this year, according to a report by recruitment firm Options Group Inc. That is, of course, if they don't get fired all together. We're talking about an 18% average decline in compensation for these traders, and it's the second year they've been the biggest losers on Wall Street, too. After this group, the traders who get it the worst will be those who trade the long end of Treasury bonds. Not that anyone is surprised. Interest rates have been low since the financial crisis, and even though there are signs that the economy is improving, the Federal Reserve is being very cautious about when it's going to raise them. Earlier this year, JPMorgan sounded the alarm and said that trading revenue in the second quarter could see a 20% decline from the same time last year, dragged down mostly by fixed income, currencies, and commodities trading. Morgan Stanley, for its part, has already cut Forex and rates traders around the world.  And all of that trouble bleeds out across Wall Street. A lack of volatility in the market means that traders can't make money off the spread. Less trading means less brokering trades. And that means brokers are going to get hit too. Check out this chart BTIG's Dan Greenhaus tweeted out. Dan Greenhaus, BTIG According to the Options Group report, some people will be spared. Investment bankers in Europe and the United States could see 15% increases in compensation and equities traders (given the market's "all time highs") might see even more. But there is a scenario that could ruin even that good news. If trading revenue is way down because of problems in FICC sectors, JPMorgan's CEO Marianne Lake said at a conference this month, it could mean cuts all over the bank. She said that these conditions are "cyclical" but no one knows when the cycle will end. Until it does, expect Wall Street to shrink smaller and smaller and smaller ... FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidThe NYMEX on a normal day.Things got heated at the New York Mercantile Exchange Tuesday, when two traders started a fight over space on the trading floor. According to The Street's Joe Deux, the two offenders were arguing over whose spot was whose, which quickly escalated into shoving, punching, and according to one witness, clothes-ripping. They were taken away by security.  It's been awhile since market trading floors have been as crowded as they once were, thanks to technological advancements and streamlined trading with computers. People interviewed by The Street said this was the first physical fight to break out in years.  Physical violence is rare on the trading floor. In 2011, two UBS traders tussled over a stock transaction and were suspended. Insider trading informant David Slaine got in a fight in 1993, over sharing french fries.  The Street's sources said while this was a dispute over space, these disagreements tend to break out when trading and volatility conditions are slow. Sounds like the timing is just about right then. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Luke MacGregor Residents Nigel and Jane Gray look out from their front door after the river Thames flooded the village of Wraysbury, southern England February 11, 2014. The Bank of England has sounded the alarm on the U.K. housing market. The central bank has announced two new lending rules and standards for mortgages in the U.K, with the goal of, "[limiting] the risks to financial stability and the economy from a significant increase in the number of highly indebted households." The first is a stress test of a borrower's ability to pay a mortgage if rates rise, and the other limits how many of a lender's mortgages can be more than 4.5 times a borrower's income. Last week, the U.K.'s Office for National Statistics reported that housing prices increased 9.9% in April, up from an 8% increase in March. And the London housing market was up significantly, with annual home prices rising 18.7%.  The BoE said mortgages represent 80% of household debt in the U.K., but added that it, "does not believe that household indebtedness poses an imminent threat to stability." Here's a chart showing the annual increase in home prices. ONS This chart shows the increase in U.K. home prices since 2002. ONS And this break down by region shows the change in the London market, which is exploding. ONS These new rules from the BoE come about two weeks after BoE Governor Mark Carney suggested that interest rate increases could come sooner than the market expects. A change in interest rates would make those who hold variable rate mortgages particularly vulnerable. The BoE said it is "prudent" to insure against housing market risks, positioning the rules as preventing a problem rather than reacting to one.  But Baroness Jo Valentine, chief executive of London First, told the BBC: "If anyone thinks these tighter rules on mortgage lending will somehow make London prices more reasonable then they are mistaken." The U.K. housing market is undeniably booming, but whether this boom has led to a bubble-like situation that will end badly remains to be seen. The Bank of England is clearly paying very close attention. FREE AppDownload
Renato Ganoza/flickrWe just got some slightly nasty consumption readings for May. Personal spending climbing just 0.2%, with real services consumption declining 0.2%. Analysts have updated their growth tracking models for Q2 accordingly. The results aren't good. Barclays' model is now showing 2.9% annualized Q2 growth, down from 4% in its most recent reading.  "On balance, this report suggests a more modest rebound in Q2 consumption growth following a softer Q1 than we had previously expected," they write. TD Ameritrade's Eric Green also saw his estimate drop to 3% from 3.6%. "While there is plenty of scope for upside surprise on the inventory build and net exports on the quarter, the risks at this point tilt to 3.0% or lower rather than higher," he said in a note. And Macroeconomic Advisers saw its model fall four-tenths to 3.1%. Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi's Chris Rupkey says the data show the Q2 snap-back may be more of a tap-back. "Consumer spending was knocked back big from 3.1% to the slow-growth zone of 1% yesterday for the first quarter," he wrote in a note. " The second quarter bounce from the cold winter weather is not yet evident as spending is running just 1.2% through May.  Don’t start betting on those 3% GDP numbers yet, but the report on July 30 will have the annual benchmark revision so the story could still change." Markets are sliding. FREE AppDownload
Microsoft founder Bill Gates is probably the most famous billionaire college dropout. He's often held up as a shining example that you don't need to graduate from college to be successful. And it is true there are many successful college dropouts. But even Gates explained: "It is strange to call me a college dropout in all but the most literal sense. I went for three years and took enough courses to graduate." He also scored 1590 out of 1600 on the SAT, which is probably why he was admitted to not just any college, but Harvard University.  While we like to tell the dropout-turned-billionaire story, most people in powerful positions graduated from college — and not only that, highly elite colleges.  Here are just a few examples: Billionaire Amazon founder Jeff Bezos graduated from Princeton University; Yahoo CEO Marissa Mayer earned undergraduate and graduate degrees from Stanford University; and Ben Bernanke, former chair of the Federal Reserve, got undergraduate and graduate degrees from Harvard University and a Ph.D. from MIT.  In a recent research study titled "Investigating The World's Rich And Powerful," I examined the education level of three groups of global elites: billionaires (people in the top 0.0000001% of wealth), the people who attended the World Economic Forum in Davos, and the world's most powerful men and women according to Forbes magazine. The total sample size included over 4,000 global elites.  In the graphs that follow, black bars indicate the percentage that attended an elite school, which were those schools that appear at the top of the U.S. News &amp; World Report rankings and the QS World University rankings. (See this paper and this paper for the full list of schools considered elite.) Dark gray bars indicate the percentage that attended graduate school, independent of the elite school category. Brown bars indicate the percentage independent of the first two categories that attended college. And finally, light gray bars indicate the percentage that did "not report" or had "no college." Jonathan WaiCollege attendance of the global elite. Overall for the global elite, the majority of each of these groups attended and graduated from college, and a very high percentage attended elite schools. Powerful men (92.4%), women (91.0%), and Davos attendees (90.5%) had higher college attendance than billionaires (71.1%).  To give a sense of the over-representation of people in these groups who went to elite schools, in the U.S. 44.8% of billionaires, 85.2% of powerful men, 55.9% of powerful women, and 63.7% of Davos attendees went to elite schools. Based on census and college data, I estimate that only about 2% to 5% of all U.S. undergraduates went to one of these elite schools. That makes 44.8% to 85.2% well above base-rate expectations.  An interesting story emerges when the data is examined by country. Billionaires are represented in the top graph, and Davos attendees in the bottom graph below.  Jonathan Wai College attendance of billionaires by country. Jonathan Wai College attendance of Davos attendees by country. Elite school education appears especially important in the U.S. compared to other countries. There are, of course, exceptions. David Abney was recently named the new CEO of UPS. He attended Delta State University, a relatively unknown school, rather than a brand name college.  I wondered how common it is for a Fortune 500 CEO to have an elite school vs. a state school on their resume, as well as how much it's changed over time. To address this question, I examined the proportion of Fortune 500 CEOs who attended an elite school from 1996 to 2014, represented below. Jonathan WaiCollege attendance of Fortune 500 CEOs over time. It turns out that roughly 38% of CEOs have attended elite colleges for the last two decades. This shows the remarkable consistency of the selectivity of higher education in the backgrounds of some of the most influential business leaders.  At a time when plenty of high-profile people are arguing that college is less and less necessary — Yale graduate David Leonhardt of the New York Times argued on The Upshot that "there is still scant evidence that the selectivity of the college one attends matters much," and Stanford graduate and billionaire Peter Thiel has advised "don't go to college" — the opposite seems to be true.  A degree from a highly selective college appears to be part of the trajectory of those people who are now billionaires, World Economic Forum attendees, the most powerful, and Fortune 500 CEOs.  So why is attending a brand name school so common among the global rich and powerful?  One could argue that, especially for billionaires, many of these people got a leg up in college admissions due to their parent's wealth and influence. However, even among self-made billionaires, the percentage attending elite schools was not much different. Still, it is hard to completely rule out the possibility that this trend is, in part, about money and elite college attendance as a symbol of status for the ruling class.  Alternatively, it could be that many of the smartest people end up attending elite schools due to their high standardized test scores and other academic metrics. Maybe it's not elite college attendance that matters as much as the personal traits they had before they even went to college. Following that theory, whether David Abney went to a state school or an elite school, perhaps he still would have risen to the top spot at UPS because of who he is.  Or it might be that the power of the networks, brand name, and quality of education that come with elite school attendance is why so many of these people ended up in such positions of influence.  Like most things, it's probably a combination of all these factors, in different measure for different people. It is without question that at least for the people who currently control a disproportionate share of the world's wealth and power, a college education — and specifically an elite college education — appears important in some way.  Perhaps in the future a college education may not be as important. However, this data should give pause to anyone who thinks that not going to college is a good idea. College dropouts who rule the world are exceptions, not the rule.  If you want to become one of the global elite, you should probably attend college. And to increase your chances even more, a brand name college wouldn't hurt. Jonathan Wai, Ph.D., is a psychologist, writer, and research scientist at the Duke University Talent Identification Program and an expert on multiple issues surrounding the development of intellectual and creative talent. Follow him on Twitter, Facebook, or G+. Read his blog Finding the Next Einstein: Why Smart is Relative. © 2014 by Jonathan Wai. FREE AppDownload
APThe market is lower but off its worst levels, with the Dow down 78 points and the S&amp;P 500 down 8 points. The Nasdaq is also down 18 points. Earlier today we got inflation and personal spending data, with personal spending in May rising less than expected, while core PCE showed prices climbed 1.5% over last year, in line with expectations. Core PCE is the Fed's preferred measure of inflation. Weekly jobless claims were also reported, and fell to 312,000 from 314,000 a week ago. Expectations were for 310,000.  In corporate news, shares of Barclays were down more than 6% after the bank was hit with a lawsuit from the New York Attorney General's office over its dark pool trading venue.  Philip Morris shares were down as much as 2.6% after the tobacco giant earlier today lowered its outlook for 2014.  Among the biggest equity gainers were shares of Iron Mountain, up as much as 20% after the company last night announced it will convert into a real estate investment trust, or REIT, following a ruling from the IRS.  Wearable camera company GoPro made its debut on the Nasdaq this morning, and as of 11:30 EST, shares were up more than 30%.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/NASA/JPL-Caltech/HandouThere were nearly 2 million new high net worth individuals (HNWI) in 2013. But the changing global landscape makes it more complicated for both affluent and mass affluent investors.  US Trust put out a report titled 101 Things Every Investor Should Know About The Global Economy earlier this year. Inspired by the report, we drew on some key global themes in terms of investment, trade, output, competitiveness and asset performance to pull together 27 key themes for investors. We look at the importance of foreign direct investment, growing sovereign wealth funds, disruptive technologies, and total returns that investors should keep an eye on. These themes can help guide investors in seeking out opportunities, both geographically and in terms of asset class. Note: The charts are not taken from US Trust. FREE AppDownload
Melia Robinson/Business InsiderLeaning forward while standing shows you're engaged and in a position of dominance.It's the cheapest, most low-tech life hack you'll find. Power posing: the act of taking a posture of confidence, even when you don't feel so confident, to make yourself more dominant. Social psychologist Amy Cuddy struck a chord in the business world at TEDGlobal 2012 when she gave a talk about the scientific evidence behind power posing. Her research showed that standing or sitting a certain way triggers immediate changes in your body chemistry. It can affect the way you do your job and interact with other people. It might even have an effect on your chances of success. Here's how it works: High-power posing is about opening up, Cuddy says. You stretch and expand your body to take up as much space as possible. It's similar to how primates behave in the wild. They puff out their chests and extend their limbs to make themselves appear — and feel — big. After assuming a high-power pose for just two minutes, your testosterone levels (the "dominance" hormone) can rocket 20% while your cortisol levels (the "stress" hormone) fall sharply. This allows you to better handle stressful situations. We decided to test out some of the poses. Some of them have names created by Cuddy; others we came up with. We'll break down which to use in eight common situations that affect your work success.  FREE AppDownload
Philadelphia FedThe Philly Fed's latest coincident indexes survey shows most U.S. states are growing, though still somewhat feebly. Just 10 states, mostly concentrated in the Midwest and oil-rich regions, saw growth in the indices above 1% in Q1 Everyone else is just kind of inching along. The coincident indexes combine different state-level indicators to give us a picture of current economic conditions for that state.   Anyway, the latest readings could be way worse — and we have the history to show it. Every month, the Philly Fed publishes a color-coded map tracking economic activity across the country. Red shows economic contraction while blue or green show expansion. The maps start in 2005 when the economy was booming, then get really ugly. We've put them all together here.  FREE AppDownload
Jobless claims fell to 312,000, from a revised 314,000 prior.  Consensus was for 310,000. Continuing claims came in at 2,571,000 versus 2,565,000 expected, and 2,559,000 prior.  Here's what it's looked like recently: FRED FREE AppDownload
YouTube screencapCore PCE, the Fed's preferred measure of inflation, grew 1.5% over last year. Economists were expecting core PCE, which measures prices paid for consumer goods excluding food and energy, to climb 1.5% year-over-year. On a monthly basis, core PCE grew 0.2%, which was in line with expectations. PCE differs from the consumer price index, or CPI, report in a few ways and is typically lower than the CPI. Last week, the May CPI report showed inflation climbed 2.1% year-over-year, and 0.4% month-over-month. Personal income increased 0.4%, in line with expectations. Personal spending, however, grew 0.2%, below the 0.4% increase that was expected. The May price index increased 1.8% year-over-year which was in line with expectations. Since last week's CPI report, inflation has come to the fore as a major part of the discussion about where the economy is headed. The Federal Reserve says that it aims for 2% inflation and full employment, but inflation has long undershot the Fed's target. Following the report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro said, "In one line: Real spending on track for just 1.6% in Q2."Personal income rose 0.4% in May, as expected. Nominal spending rose only 0.2%, below the consensus, 0.4%, The core PCE deflator rose 0.2%, in line with consensus. With the headline deflator up 0.2%, unfavorable rounding meant real spending dipped 0.1%; disappointing and due to a surprise 0.2% drop in services spending; utilities plunged 6.8%, much more than implied by the 0.8% dip in utility output; will rebound. Still, even assuming a 0.3% rebound in total June spending, we now look for only a 1.6% annualized gain in Q2, down from our previous 2.5% forecast." This chart from the BEA shows recent PCE readings. BEA FREE AppDownload
From the man who bought you "the shortest economic textbook in the world"; and "13 things Economists won't tell you", here is Ha-Joon Chang's ultimate pocket guide to the differences (and similarities) between all the economic schools of thought. As Chang discusses in his new book, Despite what the experts want you to believe, there is more than one way of ‘doing’ economics People have been led to believe that, like physics or chemistry, economics is a ‘science’, in which there is only one correct answer to everything; thus non-experts should simply accept the ‘professional consensus’ and stop thinking about it. Contrary to what most economists would have you believe, there isn’t just one kind of economics – Neoclassical economics. In fact there are no less than nine different kinds, or schools, as they are often known. And none of these schools can claim superiority over others and still less monopoly over truth. I accept that being suddenly asked to taste nine different flavours of ice cream when you had thought that there was only one plain vanilla can be quite overwhelming. In order to help, the simple table below should help you overcome your initial fear. (Click image for large legible version) The Little Blue Book Via The Little Blue Book
APBambi Brooke, an animal handler working at Radio City Music Hall, takes a reindeer for a walk on the snow covered streets of midtown New York during a blizzard Sunday, Jan. 7, 1996.During a press breakfast on Wednesday morning, Bank of America Merrill Lynch's economists and strategists scrambled to address the fact that Q1 GDP growth was slashed by far more than anyone expected. But one long-term theme was confirmed: we can't ignore the impact of extreme weather on the economy. "We caution against reading too much into the weakness, as it is clear that special factors during the quarter distorted growth," wrote BofA Merrill Lynch economist Ethan Harris later that afternoon. "The severe winter weather weighed heavily on consumption, fixed investment and trade." According to David Woo, Head of Global Rates and Currencies Research, weather can create a major shock to the FX markets. Even though it's almost July, the market has not been able to shake off the effects of this past winter. Not only was it the 3rd most severe winter since 1960, but it has also been the longest one.  Woo shared this chart of BAML's proprietary extreme winter weather index: Bank Of America Merrill Lynch Woo says that the winter of 2013-2014 is a temporary shock weighing on rates and has affected the poor numbers in Q1. Therefore, inference about future potential growth is unjustified. He also added that there is a greater story of climate change. The winter of 2012-2013 was one of the warmest in U.S. history, but it was one of the coldest in Europe. On the flip side, 2013-2014 was one of the warmest in Europe, but one of the coldest in the U.S. In his words, the poor weather is "punishing" the U.S. economy, while the European economy is "flowering" currently. Who knows how positively or negatively the climate changes will affect the markets in the future. FREE AppDownload
Mike Nudelman/Business InsiderAirbnb CEO Brian CheskyI have learned the hard way, as father to three small boys, that sharing causes conflict. Ask humans to play with the same toy at the same time, and it won’t take long for a fight to break out. The smart move is to find duplicates of that toy or, if that’s impossible, to urge interested parties to “take turns.” That’s one reason why I’m afraid that the much-celebrated “sharing economy”—the catch-all name for “peer-to-peer” apps and services that use information technology to connect people for the purposes of distributing, sharing, and reusing goods and services—is likely to produce more fights than profits. And since California is a center of many of the most significant “sharing” companies, our state could be embroiled for years to come in political, legal, commercial, and environmental battles related to sharing. I hope I’m wrong about this. Companies such as the ride-sharing services Lyft and Uber and the apartment-sharing service Airbnb are California success stories; Airbnb is already worth more than the Hyatt or Wyndham hotel chains. Hundreds of other companies and apps have launched in the state to allow the sharing of everything from food and household items to time and expertise. In the blocks near my Santa Monica office are dozens of such companies that, when I drop by to visit, are full of smart, young people (and the pets they often bring to work). Among these are Tradesy (a marketplace for women buying and selling new and gently used clothing) and DogVacay (connecting pet owners with pet sitters). Sharing services can eliminate waste, improve efficiency, connect people to one another, and allow us to make money on extra stuff in our closets and garages. And if that’s all the sharing economy promised to do, I’d have no reason to worry. But the sharing economy is more than a business sector—it’s a movement, with the grandest of ambitions for our politics, culture, and environment. Over a couple of months of reading about and talking to people in the sharing economy, I’ve been struck frequently by the limitless ambitions of its participants and proponents. Here are just a few of those ambitions: reversing economic inequality, stopping ecological destruction, countering the consumptive and materialistic tendencies of First World societies, enhancing worker rights, mitigating the effects of globalization, empowering the poor, curing cancer and other diseases, and re-imagining our politics in more participatory ways. At least no one has argued that the sharing economy can produce a donut that will help you lose weight. Yet. It would be easy to dismiss sharing economy hype as just more of the self-aggrandizing, self-righteous nonsense for which liberal pockets of California are well-known. Except that the sharing economy is already threatening to reach into every corner of our lives. Mary Meeker, the celebrated venture capitalist, routinely touts the long list of industries already changed by sharing (education, photography, publishing, finance)—and says those are only a start. If that sounds like an exaggeration, consider this: Venture capitalists just funded an app to help you find someone to do your laundry for you. The best adjective to describe this kind of movement is totalitarian. As the Czech novelist Milan Kundera aptly put it: “Totalitarianism is not only hell, but also the dream of paradise—the age-old dream of a world where everybody would live in harmony, united by a single common will and faith, without secrets from one another.” Seen through this lens, my bid to watch your dog while you’re on vacation—and yours to drive me to the airport en route to my own vacation—is at once freeing and full of dangers. Who’s responsible if your dog bites my kid while in my care? What kind of car insurance, training, and licensing do you need to shuttle me safely? What, if anything, do we owe to the kennel workers and cabbies whose work is displaced by our sharing? And who gets to decide how we govern all of this? There are so many potential conflicts—along professional, political, commercial, geographic, generational, and gender lines—that could be stirred by sharing that I couldn’t list them here. To pick just one more: Sharing is a threat to the general plans of virtually every city. After all, what is Airbnb if not a comprehensive rezoning of every residential area it covers into hotel space? Sharing models could force the reassessment of the regulation and governance of almost everything. Of course, the movement doesn’t see itself as a starter of wars—and that may be its biggest weakness. Instead of recognizing the conflict and anger that could be produced by their efforts to transform the world, cheerleaders of the sharing economy celebrate its “disruptive” power—as well as its “sustainability.” I tend to avoid using the word “sustainable” because so many different people use it to describe so many different things that no one can agree on what it means. But the word remains powerful because sustainable, like sharing, is a fighting word. Whether being employed by the environmental left or the anti-spending right, “sustainability” has become a way to dismiss somebody else’s idea without having to reckon with the particulars. “That’s unsustainable,” which means it can’t go on, so why continue to discuss? It’s the new way of saying no to anything new that might cost money or consume energy—and to saying yes to a lot of quick, cheap fixes. So, naturally, almost every major government or corporate bureaucracy you might encounter in California has an office of sustainability. What California doesn’t have is the governance infrastructure to host the multi-front battles over sharing and sustainability that are on the horizon. California’s local governments are so weak and cash-strapped that they can’t deal with all the new planning, zoning, licensing, and regulatory questions posed by this new economic model. California’s courts are already too crowded to handle basic functions—much less a host of new claims and litigation sparked by sharing enterprises. And our political system, with its crushing combination of low voter participation and big money, simply can’t produce definitive, democratically legitimate answers on the big new policy questions posed by all this sharing. For all its promise, the sharing economy threatens to turn virtually every aspect of living into contested ground. And, as parents of small children know all too well, that is no way to live. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Siphiwe SibekoGood morning! Here's what you need to know: NY Goes After Barclays. New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman is suing Barclays for misrepresenting itself in a way that benefited high-frequency traders. "Barclays grew its dark pool by telling investors they were diving into safe waters," said Schneiderman. "According to the lawsuit, Barclays' dark pool was full of predators - there at Barclays' invitation." Here Comes GoPro. Camera company GoPro priced its IPO at $24 per share on Wednesday evening. The company is issuing 17.8 million shares, which means the company raised $427 million. The stock will begin trading today on the Nasdaq under the ticker GRPO. John Paulson Joins Team Ackman. Reuters' Nadia Damouni and Olivia Oran report that Paulson &amp; Co., the massive hedge fund managed by John Paulson, now owns 6 million shares of Botox-maker Allergan, which has been the target of Valeant Pharmaceuticals and hedge fund manager Bill Ackman. "Paulson's new position in Allergan could give Valeant a boost, as the company tries to drum up support from at least 25 percent of Allergan shareholders so that it can call a special meeting," they write. "Valeant and its ally, Bill Ackman's Pershing Square Capital Management, are seeking to call a meeting to elect new directors to Allergan's board, which could pave the way for a takeover of the company." Don't Buy A Chevy Cruze. "General Motors on Wednesday said that it has told its North American dealers to stop selling new and used Chevrolet Cruze sedans from model years 2013 and 2014 because of a potential problem with the airbags," reported Reuters' Bernie Woodall. Markets Are Down A Bit. In Europe, Britain's FTSE 100 is flat, France's CAC 40 is down 0.1%, Germany's DAX is down 0.1%, and Spain's IBEX is up 0.2%. Asian markets closed higher with Japan's Nikkei up 0.2%, Hong Kong's Hang Seng up 1.4%, and Australia's S&amp;P/ASX up 1.1%. Initial Jobless Claims. At 8:30 a.m. ET, the Department of Labor will publish its latest tally of initial unemployment insurance claims. Economists estimate claims fell to 310,000 from 312,000 last week. "Initial jobless claims continue to linger below 320k," said Nomura economists. "This suggests that layoffs have bottomed out and that more hiring will be needed to spur job growth." Personal Income And Spending. Also at 8:30 a.m. is the personal incomes and outlays report. Economists estimate income and spending each climbed by 0.4% in May. "A decent increase in personal income in May will probably be the most positive part of this report, as it would suggest that households will be able to spend more freely in the coming months," said Capital Economics' Paul Ashworth and Paul Dales. "The 0.3% m/m rise in retail sales in May implies that personal spending on goods increased at the same pace last month." The Fed's Favorite Measure Of Inflation. Included in the personal income and spending report will be the PCE price index. "Core PCE inflation is expected at 0.2%, which implies a YoY rate of 1.6% (from 1.4%)," said Credit Suisse economists. "Interestingly, this would already move core PCE into the FOMC’s central tendency projection zone for Q4:2014 (1.5%-1.6%)." World Largest Tobacco Company Slashes Profit Guidance. "2014 is proving to be a complex and truly atypical year," said André Calantzopoulos, CEO of Philip Morris International. "We continue to face significant currency headwinds, an improving but weak macro-economic environment in the EU and known challenges in Asia, partly offset by a robust performance in a number of markets and the contribution of our business development initiatives. Furthermore, we have recently witnessed significant price discounting at the low end of the market in Australia which, were it to persist, could lead us to be at the lower end of our 2014 guidance for full-year currency-neutral adjusted diluted EPS growth of 6%-8%" Another Billion Dollar Merger. Aluminum giant Alcoa announced it would be buying aerospace parts marker Firth Rixson from Oak Hill for $2.85 billion. "This transaction will bring together some of the greatest innovators in jet engine component technology; it will significantly expand our market leadership and growth potential," said Alcoa CEO Klaus Kleinfeld. "Firth Rixson increases the earnings power and broadens the market reach of our high-value aerospace portfolio and will deliver compelling and sustainable value for customers and shareholders." FREE AppDownload
Dan Kitwood/Getty ImagesSAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - A bill that would impose insurance requirements on ridesharing companies in California passed a state Senate committee 9-1 on Wednesday, although with somewhat lower costs to the industry than previously written into the bill. Companies such as Lyft, Sidecar and UberX, which is a part of black-car service Uber, allow passengers to summon paid rides using apps on their smartphones and have gained in popularity in dozens of U.S. cities over the past few years. But they face opposition from taxi companies which argue the upstarts do not face the stringent regulation they do, and insurance companies want ridesharing drivers to carry more expensive insurance policies. The bill, AB 2239, would require ridesharing companies' insurance to cover drivers from the moment they turn on their app, not just from when they accept a ride on their app. The version the insurance committee approved on Wednesday requires $750,000 worth of insurance coverage in such cases, down from $1 million in the previous draft. The bill, which has already been approved by the State Assembly, must still get through the appropriations committee and then the full Senate before becoming law. The same fate awaits a related bill that would require drug and alcohol tests for ridesharing drivers. The move to dictate more extensive coverage stems from a New Year's Eve incident in San Francisco when an UberX driver killed a child while his app was on, but before he had accepted a ride. Ridesharing companies say the stepped-up insurance requirements are not fair because they could potentially leave them liable for hours of driving time when a driver has an app turned on but does not accept rides. Separately, the California Public Utilities Commission, which is seeking to regulate ridesharing in the state, has scheduled a July 10 hearing for its own proposed rules. Those rules would also require the ridesharing companies' insurance kick in from the time drivers turn on their apps. In New Mexico, the state Public Regulations Commission voted 3-2 on Wednesday to deny Uber’s application for a temporary operating permit, Arthur Bishop, a spokesman for the commission, said in an email. The commission also voted unanimously to consider amending its rules to include provisions for ridesharing services, he said.   (Reporting by Sarah McBride; Additional reporting by Alex Dobuzinskis; Editing by Mohammad Zargham) FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's BlogThe clear and present threat to the bull market is the current geopolitical crisis in the Middle East, specifically in Iraq. ISIS militants continue to extend their advance in the country. On Tuesday, Iraqi security forces fought fierce battles with the al Qaeda-linked group as both sides attempted to gain control of the country's largest oil refinery, which produces 300,000 bpd. The price of a barrel of Brent crude oil has risen from this year’s low of $104 to $114 on Wednesday. Yesterday, I highlighted one of our charts, which shows the price of a barrel of Brent crude oil versus the CRB raw industrials spot price index. I observed: “When both indicators are rising together, that tends to signal that the global economy is growing. When they are both falling, the global economy is weakening. The ideal scenario is when oil prices are falling while the CRB is rising. A red flag goes up when rapidly rising oil prices depress industrial commodity prices, as may be happening now.” The CRB index is down 2.3% from its recent peak on May 12. I average the two series to derive our YRI Global Growth Barometer. It isn’t sending a distress signal yet as the price of oil has increased more than the CRB index has dropped. In the past, it correctly signaled the global downturns and slowdowns during 2008, mid-2010, 2011, and early 2012. It has been relatively flat since then at a high level, confirming that the global economy is growing though at a lackluster pace. Dr. Ed's BlogToday's Morning Briefing: Early Warning Indicators. (1) There’s always something to worry about. (2) Clear and present danger is currently in Iraq. (3) Watching oil prices and commodity prices for hints of more trouble. (4) No distress signal yet. (5) A good sign: S&amp;P 500 Energy stocks outperforming. (6) S&amp;P 500 remains resilient, along with Transportation stocks. (7) Global oil demand at another record high, but growth is slow. (8) Crude oil demand falling in Europe and Japan, flattening in China, rising in India and Latin America, (9) Non-OPEC output at record high led by North American producers. (10) Can we manage without Iraq? (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
Dan Lacher/FlickrEuropean stocks are just barely up early Thursday, while Barclays' shares were down 3.2% after the New York Attorney General filed a lawsuit against the bank.  Britain's FTSE 100 is up 0.05%. France's CAC 40 is up 0.02%. Germany's DAX is up 0.05%. Spain's IBEX is up 0.03%. Asian markets closed in the green with Japan's Nikkei up 0.27% and Hong Kong's Hang Seng up 1.45%. US futures are flat.  The lawsuit against Barclays alleges that the bank's US-based alternative trading system, or "dark pool," favored high-frequency traders.  “Barclays grew its dark pool by telling investors they were diving into safe waters. According to the lawsuit, Barclays’ dark pool was full of predators – there at Barclays’ invitation,” Attorney General Eric Schneiderman said on Wednesday. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Charles Platiau(Reuters) - Online gambling company Bwin.Party Digital Entertainment has denied a report that it was considering the break-up or sale of its business, but said it was examining ways to increase shareholder value. Bloomberg reported earlier on Thursday that the company had appointed Deutsche Bank to explore a partial or complete sale of the company as part of a strategic review. "There are no plans to break-up or sell the company," Bwin.Party said in a statement. Shares in the company were trading 4 percent higher at 96.4 pence at 0838 GMT, after being up an initial 11 percent. The gambling firm said its newly appointed chairman Philip Yea was looking at how to "increase shareholder value" after a revolt by an activist shareholder who claimed the business was badly managed. The shareholder, American investment group SpringOwl which has a five percent stake in the company, agreed with Bwin.Party last month to take a seat on the board. Bwin.party is the product of a 2010 merger between sports betting group Bwin and online poker group PartyGaming.   (Reporting by Karen Rebelo in Bangalore and Karolin Schaps in London; Editing by Gopakumar Warrier) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersShop attendant shows 24K gold bracelets inside jewellery store in Hong KongSHANGHAI (Reuters) - Chinese gold processing firms have since 2012 used falsified gold transactions to borrow 94.4 billion yuan ($15.2 billion) from banks, the country's chief auditor said. Commodities such as copper, rubber, soybeans and bullion have commonly been used in China for financing, where traders or investors borrow against the commodity with the aim of investing the money in high-return areas such as real estate or shadow banking. Most such deals are legitimate, but revelations of borrowing based on fake transactions in the gold market by the national auditor, which comes on the heels of alleged metals financing fraud at Qingdao Port, may prompt authorities to launch another crackdown on commodity financing. Spot checks on 25 companies that process bullion, such as jewellers, showed they made a combined profit of more than 900 million yuan by using the bank loans to take advantage of the difference between onshore and offshore interest rates, as well the appreciation of the Chinese currency, according to a report published this week on the National Audit Office's website. Chinese firms could have locked up as much as 1,000 tonnes of gold in financing deals by the end of 2013, the World Gold Council said in April, indicating a big slice of imports has been used to raise funds due to tight credit conditions, rather than to meet consumer demand. At current prices, that would be worth about $42 billion. The audit report covered a period beginning in 2012 and did not specify an end date. It did not identify any companies or banks. The audit office also said it found problems with the country's coal, corn and cotton reserves. A spot check of 12 emergency coal reserve sites found that average monthly stocks were about 30 percent lower than the target volume in 2011, and 18 percent lower than stipulated in 2012, the report said. The quality of these reserves was also a problem. Some 2.43 million tonnes of cotton stocks, accounting for 27 percent of the country's total reserves, were kept in open storage as of June 2013, while some 70 percent of corn imported by China Grain Reserves Corp (Sinograin) contained impurities exceeding the stipulated 3 percent, the report said. A reserve official at Sinograin, responsible for purchasing and storing grain to ensure food security, was sentenced to life in prison last year for taking 14 million yuan in bribes. Some 110 Sinograin employees were also investigated for taking bribes from grain retailers in exchange for awarding storage contracts, according to reports last year by state agency Xinhua. Beijing's anti-corruption campaign, which had focused on energy giant PetroChina earlier this year, has begun to turn to the commodities and mining sector.       (Reporting by Fayen Wong) FREE AppDownload
Since extraordinary monetary policy measures were taken, some observers have warned of inflation risks lurking around every corner. With CPI rising above 2%, could they finally be right? Not so fast. The Federal Reserve's 2% inflation target does not apply to the consumer price index. Since mid-2012, the Fed has identified the core PCE deflator as its preferred inflation measure. There is a significant difference. The PCE measure of inflation tends to be lower than the CPI measure. In part, the two measure different things. The CPI is calculated by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the Department of Labor. The PCE is calculated by the Bureau of Economic Analysis at the Commerce Department. An important methodological issue is the weights for the different components. The CPI uses the same weights for several years, while the PCE deflator uses current and preceding expenditures to calculate the weights. One implication of this is that the PCE measure also allows for substitution of goods with rising prices for similar goods with stable or falling prices. When it comes to health care expenditures, which played a large role in the sharp downward revision to Q1 GDP, CPI and PCE measure somewhat different things. The CPI calculus includes only the expenses employees pay, while the PCE deflator also includes money that employers spend for their employee health care. The CPI is calculated based on surveys of more than 14,000 families and 23,000 businesses they patronize.  All told some 80,000 consumer items are included. Sales taxes are included. The PCE deflator calculation is completely different, though both the PPI and CPI measures are used. Essentially, and at the risk of over-simplifying, the PCE deflator is derived from production, which is at the producer price level. The PCE methodology converts the producer priced goods/services into consumer prices, adding profit margins, taxes and transportation costs. In addition, other data is incorporated. For example, it incorporates the monthly retail sales report, and the price of food grown and eaten on the farm comes from the US Department of Agriculture. The dealers' margin on used vehicles is pulled from the National Auto Dealers Association. The core measure strips out food and energy, mostly. Recent definitional changes, however, means that the core PCE measure includes restaurant meals. These have been redefined to be food services. Pet food is also included, seemingly as part of the pet expenditures rather than as part of the food budget. Over the past 10 and 20 years, headline CPI has averaged 2.4%. The PCE deflator has averaged 2.1% and 1.9% for the 10 and 20 year periods respectively, or 0.3 percentage points and 0.5 percentage points respectively. It is widely documented that for at least the past half century, headline inflation converges to core inflation (and not the other way around). This may help explain why the Federal Reserve prefers core measures. The chart at the top shows the core CPI (white) and core PCE deflator (yellow) over the past 20 years. Over the past five years, the core PCE has undershot core CPI by 0.2% on average. Over the past ten and 20 years, the undershoot has been 0.2% and 0.4% respectively. The persistent lower estimates of the PCE deflator means that the Federal Reserve is likely to tolerate what may appear to be an overshoot of CPI. There appears to be two elements that produce a more subdued rise in the PCE measure. One is the substitution effect that is not incorporated into the CPI measure. The other is the way that hospital expenses and airfares are calculated.  The consensus calls for the May core PCE deflator to rise to 1.6% in May from 1.4% in April. If accurate, it will keep this measure 0.4 percentage points lower the core CPI. It is consistent with the Fed's assessment that the economy is evolving toward the Fed's mandates. Some observers will make hay of the substantial contraction in Q1 GDP, but this too should not alter the outlook for Fed policy. The Fed's economic mandates, as we have discussed, are on employment and prices and both did indeed move in the (Fed's) desired direction in Q1 and appear to have done so further in Q2.        Read more posts on Marc to Market » FREE AppDownload
IMDB / Imagine EntertainmentThere's an argument based on game theory that both the United States and Germany should pretty much just stand around the ball during their match on Thursday. In the World Cup tournament, the first round consists of eight groups of four teams each. Each team plays all the other teams in its group. If a team wins a game, they get three points and the losing team gets nothing. If the teams tie, they both get one point. The two teams with the highest number of points go on to the next round. After Sunday's heartbreaking tie with Portugal, the U.S. has four points, as does Germany. The other two members of our group, Ghana and Portugal, each have just one point. So, if the U.S. and Germany draw on Thursday, both teams will have five points, and neither Ghana nor Portugal can have any more than four points. This would mean that both the U.S. and Germany would advance into the knockout round of the tournament. If the U.S. wins (which FiveThirtyEight only gives a 14% chance of happening), they will advance, and Germany will very likely also still advance, barring something very strange happening in the game between Ghana and Portugal leading to a blowout for one team or the other. If Germany wins then they advance, but things get rather complicated for the U.S. and their chances. For more details on what the possibilities are for our group, check out our own Tony Manfred's write up here. This makes a win not particularly important for Germany. They should be perfectly happy to take the draw, and a draw is basically the best reasonably expectable outcome for the United States. Christian Hofer/Getty ImagesJurgen KlinsmannThis has caused some people to speculate that Germany and the United States could collude and fix the game — neither team would try to do much of anything on Thursday, leading to a pre-ordained 0-0 tie. U.S. coach Jurgen Klinsmann has denied any intention of doing this, but it might be the best option for both teams, since both would advance, and without playing particularly hard, both teams could avoid any risk of injury or player suspensions going into the knockout round.  Making collusion work, however, would be tricky. While both teams would be best off not trying too hard and aiming for the draw, one team might betray the other, and launch a sneak attack against a team expecting a quiet day in the park. This would give the betraying team an advantage. However, collaborating and not really playing to win to get to the draw is still a better option, since now both teams are exposed to risk. Further, the collusion could completely collapse, with both teams trying to actually win, leading to a normal looking soccer game.  This situation is actually an example of a classic problem in game theory: the stag hunt. The problem, originally formulated by Jean-Jacques Rousseau, involves two hunters who can choose between hunting stags or hunting rabbits. If the hunters team up, they can take down a stag, and eat like kings. If only one hunter tries to hunt a stag, and the other just goes for rabbits, the stag hunter is out of luck and goes home hungry, and the rabbit hunter gets a rabbit. If both hunters go for rabbits, they both get rabbits. The issue is similar to whether or not the U.S. and Germany should play to win or just run ninety minutes of passing drills. While it would be better for both overall to cooperate, it's safer for a team or hunter to defect. Both hunters going for a stag will get more meat, but a hunter going for rabbits is guaranteed to get a rabbit. It's helpful to put this situation into numerical terms. If both teams collude and don't try to win on Thursday, let's say each get 3 utility points, representing a safe path to the next round. If one team is not trying, and the other team defects and plays to win, the defecting team gets 2 points, and the now-betrayed cooperating team gets 0 points, representing the advantage the defecting team gets over the surprised cooperating team. If both teams defect and play to win, each gets 1 point, representing a normal soccer game. In the analysis of game theory, this kind of situation is usually written out as a payout matrix like the one below. Each row shows the U.S. team's possible decisions, and each column shows Germany's possible decisions, with the respective U.S. utility points for each situation in blue and the German points in red: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz This gives us an idea for what each team should do. If the USA cooperates and lounges on the field, they either get the best score of 3 utility points if Germany joins them, but with the risk of getting the worst score of 0 if Germany defects and plays seriously. Meanwhile, defecting is less risky — the U.S. gets at least one utility point — but there's no chance of getting the best possible outcome. The resolution to this game relies on how much the two teams can trust each other. If Klinsmann wants to collude, and he's confident that Germany will go along with the plan, then both teams can reasonably safely aim for the best possible outcome, and safely and easily walk into the next round. However, if there's doubt in his mind and he expects the Germans to defect and play to win, then the U.S. team should do the same. This puzzle and others like it, such as the famous Prisoner's Dilemma (which is very similar to this game, except that the payoff for betraying while the other player cooperates is higher than the reward for both cooperating, leading to the best strategy being to always betray the other player) are frequently used in economics and the social sciences as a highly simplified model for how interactions work in society. The stag hunt game and the decision of whether or not to play to win on Thursday are small scale illustrations of situations where people collaborating and banding together can get much better outcomes for everyone involved than everyone working on their own, but if some people work together and some people work alone, the people working together get nothing. One example given at Stanford's website explaining the stag hunt is pollution: everyone near a lake wants a clean lake, but if it's possible for one person to dump their garbage in the lake and ruin things for everyone, it's hard to coordinate everyone to keep the desirable outcome of a clean lake instead of moving to a nightmare scenario of everyone dumping their garbage. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Max RossiA "no parking" road sign is seen in front of a Barclays branch in downtown Rome May 8, 2014. NEW YORK (Reuters) - The New York Attorney General on Wednesday filed a securities fraud lawsuit against Barclays PLC for misrepresenting the safety of its U.S.-based alternative trading system, or "dark pool," to investors. The lawsuit alleges that in order to increase business in its dark pool, Barclays has favored high-frequency traders and has actively sought to attract them by giving them systematic advantages over other investors trading in the pool. "Barclays grew its dark pool by telling investors they were diving into safe waters," said Attorney General Eric Schneiderman. "According to the lawsuit, Barclays' dark pool was full of predators - there at Barclays' invitation."¬† Barclays declined to comment. Broker-run trading systems known as dark pools, where participants are anonymous and trading information is hidden until after the trades are completed, are a key focus of Schneiderman's sweeping investigation into the U.S. stock market. His office is looking into whether dark pools operate in a way that is consistent with how they market themselves, that they have the interests of investors in mind and that brokers directing trades to their own dark pools do so in a way that does not present conflicts of interest.               OPEN DOOR The probes have been going on for up to a year, but scrutiny has intensified in recent months following the release of best-selling author Michael Lewis' new book, "Flash Boys: A Wall Street Revolt." In the book, Lewis contends that high-frequency traders have rigged the stock market, profiting from speeds unavailable to others. The Barclays complaint, which is based on internal communications provided by former employees, says while the firm told its clients it would keep high-frequency traders that engage in "predatory" trading practices out of its dark pool, it never actually prevented any trader from participating. In other words, Barclays underrepresented the concentration of high frequency trading. For instance, Barclays falsified marketing material it said showed the extent and type of high-frequency traders in its dark pool by not including high-frequency trading firm Tradebot Systems, the complaint said. Barclays had already identified Tradebot, which at the time was the largest participant in the dark pool, as having been engaged in aggressive trading behavior. A spokeswoman for Tradebot, of Kansas City, Missouri, said the firm had no comment. Barclays actually courted high-frequency trading firms by disclosing detailed, sensitive information to major such firms to help ensure their aggressive trading strategies were effective, the complaint said. HFT accounts for around half of all U.S. trading volume.               NO AIRBAG, NO BRAKES Barclays also told its clients it does not favor its own dark pool when routing client orders to trading venues, when in reality it was doing just that, the complaint said. One former Barclays employee told the Attorney General's office that based on the high amount of client orders Barclays was sending to its own dark pool, better trading opportunities may have been missed elsewhere. There was a lot going on in the dark pool that was not in the best interests of Barclays clients, one former director said. "The practice of almost ensuring that every counterparty would be a high-frequency firm, it seems to me that that wouldn't be in the best interest of their clients . . . It's almost like they are building a car and saying it has an airbag and there is no airbag or brakes." The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has also taken an increased interest in issues surrounding dark pools and high-frequency trading. SEC Chair Mary Jo White earlier this month said her agency is developing a series of rules that would seek to make markets more transparent and fair for all investors. One potential measure would require dark pools and firms that match customers' orders internally to tell regulators and the public how they operate. The SEC has also stepped up enforcement actions, including a civil lawsuit filed in early June against dark pool operator Liquidnet for allegedly improperly using its subscribers‚Äô confidential trading information to market its services. The SEC declined to comment on the lawsuit. (Additional reporting by Herb Lash) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersAn employee counts Chinese 100 yuan banknotes at a branch of China Merchants Bank in Hefei SINGAPORE (Reuters) - An unusual parallel rally in Asian bonds and equities, powered for the last five years by cheap global funds, could give out soon with debt becoming a casualty of the increasing confidence in the outlook for global growth. Bonds are now pricing in an extremely bleak economic outlook, making them susceptible to any spike in long-term rates. The rise in equities has been less pronounced, leaving room for further gains as a pick up in global demand boosts corporate earnings. The tricky part for investors, however, is to precisely time their exit from bonds. Strictly speaking, bonds can continue to feed off the supply of cheap money from central banks in developed markets. Plus, there is the nagging risk of a hard landing in China and escalating crises in Iraq and Ukraine, which could push investors back into the safety of fixed-income assets. "It's a bubble in caution," said Markus Rosgen, Asian equity strategist at Citi. "The bond market is too bearish on the outlook for growth, and people will say if growth is improving, then I have a claim on growth through equities which I don't through bonds, then I ought to switch out of bonds into equities." "So it's generally equity-friendlier than it is bond-friendlier," said Rosgen. Investment bank analysts warn bond levels are frothy and there are traces of a shift of retail money from bond funds to equity. But the actual decision to sell bonds is complicated by powerful but divergent catalysts. The Federal Reserve is reducing its bond purchases, but appears in no rush to raise interest rates. European authorities are easing policy. Britain has hinted at early rate rises. A handful of Asian central banks, including in New Zealand and the Philippines, are raising rates. The growth picture is changing, with Japan, the United States and even parts of Europe showing improvements in demand, although analysts now expect 2014 to be less robust than they did before. That means the long end of the U.S. Treasuries yield curve may stay lower for longer and so preclude a rise in global yields. That would leave fund managers at risk of underperforming global bond indexes if they sold bonds prematurely. CARRY TRADE BUBBLE As things stand, however, there is not much value in bonds, particularly not for carry traders who borrow cheap short-term funds and seek to exploit interest rate differentials. Even in markets offering nominal yields above 8 percent on bonds, namely India and Indonesia, returns have shrunk. Foreigners raising money in the offshore rupee swap market and buying a 10-year Indian government bond would make just 150 basis points (bps) or so, less than a third of what they made in 2011. In Indonesia, it is merely 220 bps, and in other markets such as South Korea and the Philippines it is less than 70 bps. It is trickier to spot a top in credit markets as the composition of benchmark bond indexes changes frequently, but even JPMorgan's emerging market Asian credit index is trading at a spread of 241 bps over comparable U.S. Treasuries, the narrowest in almost three years. "The carry that we are getting in markets like Malaysia and Korea, which are relatively lower-yielding markets, is not attractive and not offsetting the duration risk we are holding," said Prashant Singh, lead portfolio manager at Neuberger Berman in Singapore. The fund has $247 billion under management globally, of which $101 billion is in fixed income. Equities, in comparison, have seen pockets of exuberance, such as in India and the Philippines. But the Asia MSCI index is up just 14 percent since October 2011. Both the price-to-book ratio and price-to-earnings ratio for Asia, key measures of relative value, remain well below historic averages and are far from the peaks hit during the 1997 Asian financial crisis and the 2007 global crisis. The region is cheap versus global equity markets, with the potential to outperform as company earnings improve, said Citi's Rosgen. Simon Derrick, head of the markets strategy team at BNY Mellon, worries about the bubble-like values in Asian bond markets. BNY Mellon has $1.6 trillion under management and is custodian to a further $27.9 trillion of assets. "I am starting to think that this is looking like quite a mature rally and certain markets are starting to look a little tired," said Derrick. "But it is impossible to say when it will peak out." "The carry trade worries me a lot because there are echoes of 1996-1998 and of 2005-2007," he said. "But that does not mean it will be a repeat." (Editing by Jacqueline Wong) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersHomes are seen for sale in the southwest area of Portland, OregonWASHINGTON (Reuters) - Minorities will account for more than one-third of U.S. households by 2025 and make up nearly half of first-time homebuyers, according to a study released on Thursday. The Joint Center for Housing Studies of Harvard University estimated the number of households, which currently stands at slightly more than 122 million, will increase by between 11.6 million and 13.2 million over 2015-2025. In 2025, 36 percent of households will be headed by minorities, the study said, up from about 31.6 percent in 2013. Of those, nearly half will be in the 25-34 age bracket that dominates the first-time buyer market. The study cautioned, however, that the numbers depend importantly on mortgage availability, given the limited incomes of many minorities. The age composition of households is also due to change. With the aging of the baby boomer generation, the number of households aged 65 and older is likely to increase by 10.7 million by 2025, the study said. At the same time, the forecasts project a shift into homeownership from so-called millennials - young adults currently in their 20s - many of whom have chosen to live with their parents even though they are employed. Their decision to stay home since the U.S. housing bubble burst is one factor cited for the nation's 18-year-low homeownership rate. As they enter their 30s, the study predicts members of this generation will increasingly strike out on their own, increasing households by 2.7 million over the next decade. Rising student debt could delay the shift, however, the study warned. (Reporting by Moriah Costa; Editing by Tom Brown) FREE AppDownload
(Reuters) - Online gambling company Bwin.Party Digital Entertainment has denied a report that it was considering the break-up or sale of its business, but said it was examining ways to increase shareholder value. Bloomberg reported earlier on Thursday that the company had appointed Deutsche Bank to explore a partial or complete sale of the company as part of a strategic review. "There are no plans to break-up or sell the company," Bwin.Party said in a statement. Shares in the company were trading 4 percent higher at 96.4 pence at 0838 GMT (4.38 a.m. EDT), after being up an initial 11 percent. The gambling firm said its newly appointed chairman Philip Yea was looking at how to "increase shareholder value" after a revolt by an activist shareholder who claimed the business was badly managed. The shareholder, American investment group SpringOwl which has a five percent stake in the company, agreed with Bwin.Party last month to take a seat on the board. Bwin.party is the product of a 2010 merger between sports betting group Bwin and online poker group PartyGaming.  (Reporting by Karen Rebelo in Bangalore and Karolin Schaps in London; Editing by Gopakumar Warrier) FREE AppDownload
