Thomson ReutersThe American Apparel factory headquarters is pictured in Los Angeles, California(Reuters) - Struggling retailer American Apparel Inc said it has adopted a new, one-year stockholder rights plan with a 10 percent trigger. "The board implemented the rights plan as an additional means to ensure that all American Apparel stockholders are treated fairly," the Los Angeles-based retailer said in a statement late on Sunday. Each right will entitle its holder to purchase, for $3.25 each, a number of shares of the company's common stock or substantially equivalent securities having a market value of twice such price, American Apparel said. The company has been approached by private-equity firm Irving Place Capital for a possible takeover, the Wall Street Journal reported on Thursday, citing sources. The retailer fired its Chief Executive Dov Charney last week, ending a tenure racked with sexual assault allegations and scandal. In July, Charney increased his ownership of American Apparel to about 43 percent through a loan from hedge fund Standard General, although the fund controls his stake as collateral. Standard General has placed several affiliates on the retailer's board and has plotted a future for the struggling company with or without Charney.   (Reporting by Supriya Kurane in Bengaluru; Editing by Gopakumar Warrier) FREE AppDownload
© AFP/File Yamil LageOld American cars are seen on a street in Havana, Cuba, on December 19, 2014Havana (AFP) - Cuba's iconic stock of refurbished vintage American sedans from the 1950s may be facing their last trips to the garage soon, following the historic thawing of ties between Havana and Washington. Flashy Pontiacs, Plymouths, Dodges and Chevrolets, as well as crudely patched and rickety classics make up the Communist island's 70,000 "almendrones," cars affectionately called large almonds for their rounded shape. Fancier classic models are rented for special occasions while their more rundown counterparts are driven as taxis and by families. But they all have one thing in common: they survived the Cuban Revolution, the Cold War, and the collapse of the Soviet Union. The almendrones owe their lasting nature to the master skills of local mechanics, as well as to the American embargo and Cuban authorities who put the brakes on replenishing the the island's stock of cars. Purchasing and selling the vehicles, which has only been allowed for the past three years, is only permitted for Cubans. The easing of the five-decade US trade embargo, one part of the rapprochement announced Wednesday, is likely to awaken the attention and desire of car connoisseurs worldwide, who are eager to snatch up the classic models. "You would have to pay me good money to sell my car," Aramis Carmona, 40, told AFP, watching tourists from his white and red 1953 Chevy with hubcaps and a chrome bumper. "It puts food on the table," the amateur mechanic said. "When I have a little money, I buy motor oil instead of cooking oil, because I know that that will help me feed my family." He said he had given new life to the "wreck" he bought ten years ago for $7,000. During the Revolution, Fidel rode around in an Oldsmobile with guns hidden in the seat. Ernesto "Che" Guevara went for rides, cigar in mouth, at the wheel of a Studebaker. This was before Cuba decided to swap its Western cars for more "revolutionary" vehicles, like the famous Russian GAZ-69 jeep adopted by "El Comandante" Castro. In the 1960s and 1970s, Peugeot 404s made in Argentina, then Czech Skodas and Soviet Ladas tried to take over the road but with limited success, as the vintage American models kept passing from hand to hand. Peugeots and Chinese models appeared on Cuban roads in the 1990s and 2000s, but they, too, never overpowered the omnipresent American classics. However, few original parts remain under the cars' hoods after numerous patchups from crack mechanics who have brought them back from the dead multiple times. Carmona said that he replaced his Chevy's original motor four years ago with a BMW diesel model that consumed far less fuel. The original went only 6 kilometers per liter (14 miles per gallon). British architect Norman Foster, struck by the cars' looks and upkeep during a recent trip to Cuba, paid tribute in the book "Havana: Autos and Architecture," where he describes a tight relationship between the island's history and its vehicles. He tells of Ruben Hernandez, who in 1951 bought a Buick Super Dynaflow. In 1959, his family's belongings were confiscated in the Cuban Revolution, but Hernandez managed to save the car.  The collector's item now belongs to his youngest son William Hernandez, who inherited it in 1989. Since then, he's taken it every day to display alongside other flashy cars at Havana's tourist hot spots. For $25 per hour, he offers passersby a ride back in time, in a vehicle whose days may now be limited.   FREE AppDownload
Though thriving in parts of Asia, golf is struggling in America and much of Europe, and is trying to reinvent itself for a generation brought up on the quick hits of video games ON A recent Saturday Matt Owens, the owner of Trenton Street Golf Course in West Monroe, sat indoors facing the entrance to his course and greeted golfers. In this town of 13,000 inhabitants with a love of fried catfish and a reverence for "Duck Dynasty", a television show about hunters whose stars live nearby, golf used to be a regular indulgence for many, and that mild autumn weekend was ideal golf weather. Yet by the end of the afternoon Mr Owens had taken in only around $200 in green fees, a tenth of what his course earned on Saturdays a few years ago. On weekends Mr Owens's 12-year-old course once swelled with golfers, but that ended when the economy sliced into the rough in 2008. He offers prices "affordable for rednecks", but bargains are not enough to bring back customers. "I sometimes believe that I could give golf away, and they still wouldn't come," he says. At the end of December he will close the course, and it will become a public park. What is happening in West Monroe is not unusual. In America, the heartland of golf, the game is in decline. Golf traces its modern origins to 15th-century Scotland, where people played with wooden clubs and balls full of feathers. In 1457 King James II temporarily banned it, along with football, because it interfered with archery practice, but he was no match for its growing popularity. Mary, Queen of Scots was an enthusiast; her clubs were carried by students she called "cadets" (now known as "caddies"). The game of "gawf", as it was first called, spread: first to England, and subsequently to its colonies. Golf went mainstream in America in the 1890s. The wealthy and upper middle classes formed private golf clubs where they could play. Then, as today, its appeal depended on time and money. Late-19th-century Americans, with plenty of both and no gadgets to occupy them at home, liked the fact that it took hours to play. Safer than polo and less tiring than football, golf allowed businessmen to get to know each other and do deals between shots. John Rockefeller and Andrew Carnegie, early adopters, helped make the sport fashionable. It builds character as well as relationships. Golf teaches honesty, patience and camaraderie. Players see how their peers handle failure. The mental focus golf requires, with its excruciatingly difficult odds, keeps enthusiasts both attracted to and humbled by the game. P.G. Wodehouse once observed, "To find out a man's true character, play golf with him." As America prospered, public courses opened alongside private clubs and exposed more people to the sport. Real estate helped drive its rise. Between 1992 and 2002, at least 60% of new golf courses were tied to property developments, according to Richard J. Moss, author of "The Kingdom of Golf in America", a rich history of the sport. Golf courses increased the value of surrounding homes, and developers built long, complicated courses with the hope of attracting tournaments and attention.Trump Golf Links Ferry Point Today America is the largest golf market by a long shot. Around half the world's golf courses and players are thought to be in America, and the sport contributes around $70 billion to America's economy according to a 2011 study. Golf is not unlike a first home or a college degree: it carries the allure of progress, of arrival in the middle class. Only a few years ago some golf gurus forecast that the sport would grow even more, as baby boomers retired and flocked to the fairways. They were wrong. Last year around 25m people played golf, 18% fewer than did so in 2006, although the population grew by 6%. Although still played by men and women, including businesspeople hoping to bond over more than lunch, golf does not hold the same appeal for the young and minorities, groups that will determine its future health. In recent years more people have abandoned than taken up the game. Emerald courses have not been the source of riches many anticipated. There are simply too many of them. Last year 160 of the country's 14,600 18-hole equivalent golf facilities shut up shop, the eighth straight year of net closures, according to the National Golf Foundation, an industry group. Steve Skinner of Kemper Sports, a large golf-course operator, thinks it is going to take another ten years to level the imbalance between supply and demand. With only a handful of new courses scheduled for construction in America, architects are looking abroad to find work. "If golf-course architecture were a publicly traded stock, it would be a penny stock right now," says Brian Curley, an architect who spends much of his time designing courses in China. Professional golf remains healthy, as sponsors and advertisers still seek the wealthy, older men who form the core group of golf viewers and players, and consider them worth reaching, even in dwindling numbers. But sellers of golf clothing and equipment have been squeezed. Earlier this year Dick's Sporting Goods, a national retailer, laid off hundreds of employees in its golf division. Nike and Adidas are among the sports manufacturers that have seen their earnings hit by a slowdown in recreational golf. Television ratings for golf on television have also declined. In some markets outside America, golf is on the rise. In China, where Mao Zedong banned golf in 1949 and building new private courses is illegal, it is still booming. According to Dan Washburn, author of "The Forbidden Game", plenty of courses are built under the guise of adding "green space" and "ecotourism zones", but a recent crackdown by the central government on corruption has slowed new course development. The party is not over, says Mr Curley, the architect, "but all the lights are on and the cops are out at the curb". Yet in most mature markets, such as Australia, Japan, England, Ireland and even Scotland, golf is struggling. In England, for instance, the number of people playing golf at least once a month has declined by more than a quarter since 2007 and golf-club membership is down. In Australia club membership has fallen by a fifth since its peak in 1998. In Japan golf participation is down more than 40% from its high in the early 1990s, although numbers have stabilised in recent years. There are some green shoots: in the Czech Republic golf is growing, as it is in Germany. But these markets are a small fraction of the size of America's. To some extent, golf's appeal has become its undoing. Its calm, meditative quality does not suit the frenetic pace of modern life. Playing 18 holes, the game's standard, takes four and a half hours or more, not counting commuting or lunch. Time-starved Americans rarely devote so many hours to anything--other than, perhaps, a transcontinental flight and sleep. Golf is a hard sport to master. In 1914 Woodrow Wilson spoke for many frustrated golfers when he described the game as "an ineffectual attempt to put an elusive ball into an obscure hole with implements ill-adapted to the purpose". Robert O'Neill, the Navy Seal who shot Osama bin Laden, was urged by his psychologist to take up golf, but found it "more stressful than combat". Nor can it be neglected for some time and picked up again with ease, like skiing or tennis. Its rule-book is some 200 pages long, too big to tote around in a golf bag. "Golf is my life, but I'm still learning new rules every time I play," says Charles Grace, who works on Wall Street and has been a golfer for 13 years. And golf has been getting even harder. During the 1990s and early 2000s professional golfers were getting better and innovations in equipment enabled them to hit balls farther so developers competed against each other to build more challenging, longer courses, full of hazards. But the longer, harder courses favoured strong, male golfers and became more challenging and time-consuming for the average player. Golf's ranks were expected to swell when baby-boomers retired, but many of them have found the arduous courses too much like hard work. When a star comes along, the game can suddenly enjoy an unexpected boost. In 1913 Francis Ouimet, a former caddy, won the US Open golf at the age of 20. His photo on the front pages of newspapers raised awareness about the sport. About a decade ago the rise of a pretty female golfer, Ai Miyazato, encouraged a wave of young Japanese women to try amateur golf. But no star has been a more powerful draw to new players than Tiger Woods. When Mr Woods, arguably the best golfer of all time, started winning championships in the late 1990s, people who had previously thought of golf as playtime for rich, white men stepped onto the tee. Unfortunately, stars' wobbles can hurt the sport as much as their superb swings can help it. In 2009 the "Tiger bubble" burst when it became known that Mr Woods was behaving badly off the course. He then started to play badly on it. Professional golf is still a healthy business, but nobody has succeeded in replacing Mr Woods's broad appeal. Having Barack Obama as America's "golfer-in-chief" has not drawn new fans to the sport. This month's cover of Golf Digest features Johnny Manziel, a well-known American football player. He has little connection to the sport, but is better known in America than most professional golfers. Golf has more than itself to blame for its challenges. Its decline is due in part to something even the most meticulous golfer cannot control: the economy. Paying to spend hours getting a white ball into tiny holes with as few strokes as possible becomes harder to justify during times of economic hardship. In 2008 golf participation and spending slid at private clubs and public courses alike. Since the economy has picked up, benefiting the rich more than the poor, high-end courses in good locations have been doing well, according to Donald Trump, who owns 18 of them. People earning $100,000 or more now make up 45% of all golfers, up from 40% in 2005, according to KeyBanc Capital Markets. The middle and lower classes have been squeezed, which hurts mid-range golf courses and those in sparsely populated areas. Many municipal golf courses have closed, because governments are unable to justify support for golf when they have cut spending on education and social services. Society today is not as friendly to golf as it once was. Men who disappear on Saturdays and palm off child-rearing to their wives have more to worry about than a high handicap. Some clever golf gluttons have tried to interest their kids in golf, in order to justify a weekend round while still getting parental points, but fathers these days are more likely to be taking their children to various sporting activities than taking part in their own. Mr Owens at the Trenton Street Golf Course thinks that the high rate of divorce across America also keeps men from golf, because weekends are when they get to see the children. Bringing in and retaining players below the age of 45 is more difficult than at any time in living memory. Millennials in America expect, if not instant gratification, at least near-term rewards. Golf's pay-offs can feel elusive. Dan Wald of the Boston Consulting Group, who advises sports businesses, says that golf video games actually decrease the chance of getting a young person to play golf, because hitting a ball smoothly down a real fairway is so much harder than on a virtual one. Golf has more competition for people's leisure time than ever before. Golf is an old-fashioned sport, obsessed with tradition. People still dress up as though they are auditioning to star in "Caddyshack", a 1980 comedy about a stuffy country club. Private golf clubs have not helped their cause by banning mobile devices and enforcing etiquette. One young female golfer complains of being scolded for wearing a tennis skirt when she played golf at an elite club, even though it met length requirements. The game's long history adds to its charm, but has sometimes damaged its image. The sport has had a particularly uneasy relationship with women and minorities. One all-male golf club in Scotland had, until a few years ago, a sign hanging outside saying, "no dogs, no women". (Some members objected to dogs not being allowed in, quips one insider.) The Royal and Ancient Golf Club of St Andrews in Scotland, a club founded in 1754 that supervises the game's rules, voted to admit women only in September 2014. America and golf used both to be racially segregated, but attitudes and demographics have changed faster in the nation as a whole than in the sport. Golf is not alone in struggling to appeal to the young. Participation among young people in many sports is down. Hunting, for example, has declined in popularity. Like golf, it is slow; unlike golf, it involves more real blood than some young people want to see. Those who play sports are specialising earlier, which disadvantages golf, where only the most elite schools have teams. A stunning 80m Americans take part in no sport at all. But those who get off their couch often prefer a rigorous workout, which explains the rise of triathlons, kitesurfing and other activities that leave participants breathless. The tech folk in Silicon Valley have their own athletic customs, such as cycling. Because golf courses have become so long, many golfers tootle around in carts without getting much exercise, rather defeating one of the points of sport. The golfing establishment knows it needs to attract new people into the game, says a former board member of the United States Golf Association (USGA), golf's rules-making body in America, "but there's dissent on what the real problem is and who should solve it". Three groups, whose priorities are not always aligned, oversee various aspects of golf in America. "There's no other sport that has as fragmented a governance structure," says Rohan Sajdeh, a partner at Boston Consulting Group. Golf is one of the few sports where amateurs can play the same game, with the same rules, as professionals. The system of "handicaps" enables a tiger cub to compete against Tiger Woods. But there is a need to lighten the sport's orthodoxy in order to make it more appealing to modern lifestyles. One relatively uncontroversial strategy is to encourage people to play nine holes instead of 18, which can help attract women and young people seeking swifter versions of the game. In Japan, "lonely golf", in which older people show up by themselves in the hope of playing with someone for a round, has become more common as the population ages. In South Korea "screen golf", in which people play in golf simulators, is an especially popular activity and corporate outing, but golf snobs do not regard it as the real thing.Amazon In America courses are experimenting with "footgolf", which involves kicking a football on a golf course into 18 enormous holes. It is fast-paced and attracts younger players. Some think adding 15-inch cups on golf courses could make the game more manageable for novices, but experienced players worry about courses being dumbed down. "We have to become a little more accepting of what it means to have a golf experience," admits Pete Bevacqua, the boss of America's Professional Golfers Association. Courses like St Andrews in New York state, the oldest golf club in America, are investing in practice facilities, including hitting bays and simulators, so people can "golf" without playing a traditional game. Private clubs have tried to lighten up in order to appeal to the young, cutting down on the amount of space they reserve for formal dining and adding more family activities. Recently a few desperate clubs have even put aside their denimphobia and started admitting people wearing jeans. Golf needs to allow for a bit more spontaneity. If friends want to play basketball, they do not have to hire a referee and play four quarters for it to count as such, observes Mr Bevacqua. Your correspondent set off to visit a site on the outskirts of Dallas that many in the golfing establishment regard as a model for the sport's salvation. "TopGolf" looks like a cross between an outdoor bowling alley and sports bar. People show up in groups or on dates for food and drinks and to try their luck hitting white golf balls with sensors into huge, coloured holes that act as targets on a green. The technology can tell whether the ball makes it in, and awards them points when they do. Customers often wait hours on weekends for their group's turn at the novel game. In the meantime they can go to the rooftop bar while they wait and drink beer and cocktails, or play pool or video games. Ken May, the boss of TopGolf, says that the concept solves golf's three main problems: it is affordable, unstuffy and fun. "There are a lot of beautiful people here," he effuses: not golf's typical pitch. The business is growing fast: some 4m people, most of them under the age of 40, will try TopGolf this year at one of its 15 locations in America and Britain. Golf pros are gearing up to wander around locations and show players how easy "real" golf can be. This modern offshoot, however, is more likely be a good business itself than a feeding ground for recruits. Few bowlers, after visiting a bowling alley, decide to take up the game with gusto. Others have their eye on another recruitment tool. In 2016 golf will re-enter the Olympics in Rio de Janeiro for the first time in 112 years, which will raise its profile internationally. People who have never watched golf on television will be exposed to it for the first time. Leaders of America's golf establishment hope the Olympics will persuade new players in Latin America and Asia to try the sport that swept their own country over a century ago. Some undoubtedly will. But the odds of Americans flooding back to the sport are about as long as those on a small, white, indented ball flying down from tee to hole in a single stroke. Golf's appeal has become its undoing. Its meditative quality does not suit the frenetic pace of modern life  Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersIusacell stall is seen at a shopping mall in Mexico CityMEXICO CITY (Reuters) - Mexico's competition regulator on Sunday approved AT&amp;T Inc's $1.7 billion purchase of local cellphone company Iusacell, with unspecified conditions, a statement said. The Federal Competition Commission said it set conditions on the deal to "avoid risks to the process of competition" in markets where Iusacell would compete with Carlos Slim's America Movil, which previously counted AT&amp;T as a minority investor. America Movil is Mexico's biggest mobile operator, while Iusacell is a distant third. AT&amp;T sold its America Movil shares in the summer, before announcing its deal with Iusacell in November. Iusacell was previously being operated as a joint venture between Mexico's biggest broadcaster Televisa and Grupo Salinas, a holding company belonging to tycoon Ricardo Salinas. The competition watchdog also said in the statement it approved Televisa's sale of its 50 percent stake in Iusacell back to Grupo Salinas, from which AT&amp;T will then buy the operator in its entirety. Mexico's government earlier this year implemented reforms to shake up its telecom and broadcast market by weakening the dominance of broadcaster Televisa and billionaire Slim's cellphone and fixed-line company America Movil.  (Reporting by Elinor Comlay; Editing by Christian Plumb) FREE AppDownload
TOKYO (Reuters) - Asian shares and the dollar began a holiday-shortened week on a strong footing on Monday, with the euro testing two-year lows against the greenback on divergent monetary policy expectations. MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan &lt;.MIAPJ0000PUS&gt; was up 0.3 percent in early trade, while Japan's Nikkei stock average &lt;.N225&gt; was up 0.4 percent ahead of a Japanese holiday on Tuesday. Activity was likely to be thin this week, with many investors away for Christmas and the run-up to New Year's holiday and many investors not wanting to end the year with dollar-short positions. "U.S. data over the next three weeks are likely to underline the outperformance of the U.S. economy and provide broad support" for the U.S. dollar, strategists at Barclays wrote in a note clients on Monday. On Wall Street on Friday, U.S. shares rose, with the S&amp;P 500 &lt;.SPX&gt; coming within a few points of its closing record high. That index gained 5 percent since Wednesday to log its best three-day gain since 2011, after the U.S. Federal Reserve said it would be "patient" on raising benchmark U.S. interest rates, depending on domestic growth and inflation. Three Fed officials on Friday offered clues on the thinking inside the U.S. central bank as it gears up to raise interest rates, likely in 2015. Richmond Fed President Jeffrey Lacker echoed Fed Chair Janet Yellen's view at her press conference two days earlier that the drop in energy prices will boost U.S. consumer spending, and said that he supported the central bank's addition of the word "patient" to describe its interest rate guidance in its policy statement last week. Minneapolis Fed President Narayana Kocherlakota said rate hikes in 2015 would create "unacceptable" downside risks to U.S. inflation. San Francisco Fed chief John Williams told Bloomberg Radio it seems "reasonable" for the Fed to raise rates in mid-2015. In contrast, ECB governing council member Luc Coene said in a newspaper interview on Saturday that the bank should start buying government bonds to tackle poor investor confidence and low inflation in the euro zone. The euro edged down to $1.2224 &lt;eur=&gt;, dropping as low as $1.2220 earlier, its lowest level since August 2012. Against the yen, it edged slightly up to 146.07 yen &lt;eurjpy=r&gt;, but remained a considerable distance from a six-year high of 149.79 touched earlier in December. Calming some fears about political stability in the euro zone, Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras offered on Sunday to bring pro-European independents into the government and hold new elections in late 2015 if lawmakers back him to elect a new president. Against the yen, the dollar was flat on the day at 119.50 &lt;jpy=&gt;, still well off a 7-1/2 year high of 121.86 touched this month but off last week's low of 115.56 marked before the Fed's statement. On Friday, the Bank of Japan maintained its pledge of increasing base money, or cash and deposits at banks, at an annual pace of 80 trillion yen ($669.40 billion) through aggressive asset purchases. Governor Haruhiko Kuroda voiced confidence the bank will meet its ambitious price target despite a recent plunge in oil prices. Oil took a breather on Monday after its recent gyrations, with U.S. crude edging up 0.1 percent to $57.20 a barrel, following a week in which it shed 2 percent lower to extending its recent rout that has nearly halved its value since June.   ($1 = 119.5100 yen) FREE AppDownload
 Falling oil prices are crushing a golden child of Latin America, Colombia. The Colombian peso dipped to its lowest level since 2009 last week. It traded at 2413.75 to the US dollar last Thursday morning after a 5.6% depreciation over a five-day period, Businessweek reported. Apart from Russia's ruble, Colombia's peso is the only major currency to weaken more than 20% since midyear. Oil exports are the number-one source of foreign exchange for Colombia, which is the fourth-largest oil producer in the region. As investors lose interest in oil projects there, it could lead to a slump in foreign direct investment or cause capital flight on expectations of higher interest rates to come, Reuters reported. The state-run oil company, Ecopetrol SA, is already struggling; it has cut its 2015 output target by 7.2%. Ecopetrol now plans to produce 760,000 barrels of oil per day, down from previous expectations of 1 million barrels per day, while investment spending will be down 26% from this year, the report said. Meanwhile, the country's trade deficit grew to a thundering $449.6 million in September, up from $66.2 million in the same period last year. At 4.4% of GDP in the first half of 2014, the deficit is unlikely to meet the government's 2.4% target in 2015. Colombia's GDP is growing. Growth expanded 4.2% in the third quarter, up 0.6% from the previous quarter. John Vizcaino/ReutersFinance Minister Mauricio Cardenas has welcomed currency depreciation in the past. But the growth rate is still short of President Juan Manuel Santos' forecast of 4.3-4.5% for next year. Finance Minister Mauricio Cardenas says the weaker currency could help lessen the impact of falling oil revenue by making exports in other industries, like agriculture and manufacturing, more attractive. Plans are likely underway to slow the currency's depreciation. In a radio interview on Friday, Cardenas said he's starting to get worried. "The current exchange rate is a rate that is desirable, healthy," he said. "But the process of devaluation has been very accelerated, and we have to observe this constantly, which is something we do alongside the central bank, to ensure that there aren’t big leaps and that absolutely nothing occurs which could generate negative effects." That could mean the central bank will begin making changes in its upcoming policy meeting on Friday. One system the bank has used to curb volatility in the past involved buying and selling dollars in auctions when the currency started to move off track, according to Businessweek. In a country emerging from 50 years of civil conflict and in the midst of negotiating a long-term peace agreement, any moves towards stability and away from volatility would be welcome.      FREE AppDownload
HONG KONG (Reuters) - A month after China opened up its equity markets in a landmark trading link with Hong Kong, demand has been subdued and the bulk of activity has come from short-term speculative investors. The authorities had hoped mutual and pension funds and private banks would form the bedrock of the Shanghai-Hong Kong stock connect. But early trade volumes in the program launched in mid-November were completely dominated by hedge funds and banks' proprietary trading desks, according to five traders at some of the biggest brokerages participating in the scheme. Regulatory hurdles have kept out a large swathe of the investment community - and the steady business the financial industry and regulators had hoped they would bring - despite a sizzling stock market rally on the mainland. Market players say it could take months for long-term investors to eventually trickle into the program, as they devise ways to cope with its peculiarities. "We are not participating in the scheme yet because of the operational issues that have yet to be resolved and we prefer to access the mainland markets via exchange traded funds," Robert Cormie, Asia CEO of BMO Private Bank, told Reuters. Edmund Yun, executive director of investment at the same wealth management firm, agreed, citing a number of prohibitive issues. These include beneficial ownership, tax and trading settlement. Hedge funds use banks' prime brokerages, which help them more deftly manage those regulatory constraints. Stock portfolios of hedge funds are often held by the prime brokers themselves to facilitate quick trading decisions so they are unaffected by ownership constraints. For example, under the scheme, funds wanting to sell holdings of Shanghai-listed shares have to deliver the shares to brokers a day before they are to be sold, a peculiarity that exists in no other major stock market. While regulators have looked for ways to encourage long-term funds, including fast-tracking applications for products benchmarked under the stock connect scheme, industry officials say that persuading pension funds to participate could take months. [ID:nL3N0TN18G] Under the scheme, the daily limit on investment bound for Shanghai is 13 billion yuan ($2.1 billion) and for Hong Kong-bound investment it is 10.5 billion yuan. Typically, only a small portion of this has been used, and on Monday of last week, just 10 percent of the combined 23.5 billion yuan quota was used, the lowest level since the launch of the stock connect scheme. Brokers that offer a combination of services, such as major banks HSBC Holdings &lt;hsba.l&gt;, Standard Chartered Plc &lt;stan.l&gt;, BNP Paribas &lt;bnpp.pa&gt; and Citibank &lt;c.n.&gt;, were expected to win the most market share under the scheme. But the regulatory uncertainty has limited their capacity to dominate flows. Banks with private wealth clients, such as UBS &lt;ubsg.vx&gt; and those with extensive hedge fund networks, such as Goldman Sachs &lt;gs.n&gt;, Credit Suisse &lt;csgn.vx&gt; and CLSA, have grabbed early market share, traders said. That has been helped by a nearly 25 percent rise in the Shanghai Composite Index &lt;.SSEC&gt; since the scheme was launched as hedge funds have found it cheaper to buy mainland shares under the scheme than "rent quotas" from investment banks, a mechanism under which investors buy derivative products from banks who have access to onshore stocks. More worryingly for the Hong Kong Stock Exchange, the slower than expected take-up of quotas under the scheme means revenues are unlikely to get a big boost, two traders said. While the Shanghai-bound flows were heavier early on, Hong Kong-bound flows have disappointed from the start, a sales equity trader with a European bank said, as participation has been limited by stringent eligibility requirements. A CLSA survey of Chinese investors found 90 percent willing to invest in the Hong Kong market. That dropped to 20 percent, however, when a minimum investment amount of 500,000 yuan ($80,405) which the scheme currently requires, is applied. The Hong Kong stock market &lt;.HSI&gt; has also fallen more than 5 percent since the launch, reducing demand for the territory's shares. Despite the slow take-up, investors are hopeful an MSCI review in the first half next year may earmark a bigger share of mainland equities to its emerging market indexes now that one of the biggest stumbling blocks to a larger presence on the MSCI index has been eased - investor access to Chinese stocks. Until then, participation from long-term investors is expected to grow but slowly. "We expect more participation from the long-only funds in the coming months," said Nick Ronalds, head of equities at Asia Securities Industry &amp; Financial Markets Association. ($1 = 6.2185 Chinese yuan) (Reporting by Saikat Chatterjee; Editing by Nachum Kaplan, Simon Cameron-Moore and Jacqueline Wong) FREE AppDownload
Business InsiderArianna Huffington, Daymond John, and Mark Cuban.The New Year is just around the corner, which means it's resolution season.  To help you make the most of the change in calendar, we asked industry leaders and world-changing entrepreneurs, including Arianna Huffington and Mark Cuban, what they're resolved to do in 2015.  FREE AppDownload
NEW YORK (Reuters) - The average price of a gallon of gasoline in the United States fell 25 cents in the past two weeks, tumbling to its lowest level in more than five-and-a-half years, according to the Lundberg survey released Sunday. Prices for regular-grade gasoline fell to $2.47 a gallon in the survey dated Dec. 19, down 25 cents since the previous survey on Dec. 5. The recent drop has taken prices down more than $1.25 a gallon since a recent peak in May of this year. "This is mostly driven by crude oil prices, and absent a sudden spike we very well may see a drop of a few pennies more," said the survey's publisher, Trilby Lundberg. "That said, demand is up at these low prices." U.S. crude futures have been sharply weaker of late, dropping for four straight weeks, as well as in 11 of the past 12 weeks. Crude prices fell 14.2 percent over the past two weeks, though they rose 5.1 percent on Friday, settling at $57.13 per barrel. The highest price within the survey area in 48 U.S. states was recorded in Long Island at $2.82 per gallon, with the lowest in Tulsa, at $2.06 per gallon. (Reporting by Ryan Vlastelica; Editing by Diane Craft) FREE AppDownload
Minsk (AFP) - Belarus blocked online stores and news websites Sunday, in an apparent attempt to stop a run on banks and shops as people rushed to secure their savings. The Belarussian currency was dragged down by the slide of the Russian ruble last week, leading authorities to impose draconian measures, forbid price increases even for imported goods, and warn people against panic. In a statement Sunday, BelaPAN news company, which runs popular independent news websites Belapan.by and Naviny.by, said that the sites were blocked Saturday without any warning. "Clearly the decision to block the IP addresses could only be taken by the authorities because in Belarus the government has a monopoly on providing IPs," it said. Other websites blocked Sunday were Charter97.by, BelarusPartisan.org, Udf.by and others with an independent news outlook. The blockage started on December 19, when the government announced that purchases of foreign currency will be taxed 30 percent and told all exporters to convert half of their foreign revenues into the local currency. "Looks like the authorities want to turn light panic over the fall of the Belarussian ruble into a real one," Belarus Partisan website wrote, calling the blockages "December insanity." Internet shopping websites were also blocked en masse. Thirteen online stores were blocked Saturday for raising their prices or showing them in US dollars, deputy trade minister Irina Narkevich said, Interfax reported.  The government announced a moratorium on price increases for consumer goods and ordered domestic producers of appliances to "increase deliveries" and keep prices the same at the risk of their management being sacked. The Belarussian ruble has lost about half of its value since the beginning of the year, having been hit hard by the depreciation of the Russian ruble since its economy is heavily dependent on its giant neighbour. President Alexander Lukashenko last week complained that Belarus has "lost about a billion dollars" due to the ruble's slide, announcing a period of strict frugality starting with the new year. "Everything depends on the people," he said, warning people not to "rush like crazy" to exchange savings. "For us it's important not to jump after Russia into the abyss," he said. Lukashenko was in Kiev on Sunday to revive efforts to host talks on the Ukrainian conflict. But a high-ranking Ukrainian official said the Belarussian president was equally keen to use the trip to build bridges to Europe that ease his dependence on an increasingly isolated Russia. Belarussians queued for up to four hours to clear out their bank accounts and swept store shelves to secure their savings, stocking up on foreign-made appliances and housewares. Some ATM machines even ran out of Belarussian rubles as people feared that banks were preparing to block bank cards or introduce caps on cash withdrawals. At the central department store in the capital, people lined up to unload their savings and buy anything from televisions to fondue sets. "Me and my wife always argue over what to watch so we're buying a second television. And the washing machine, how could we resist?" said a shopper who introduced himself as Ivan, as he waited for his wife to finish queueing for small appliances. "We have to do something with these Belarussian rubles," said a teacher named Alla, eyeing an expensive multi-cooker. In the bedding aisle, stock was completely sold out. "It makes sense, the new shipment we received cost us 30 percent more," said department manager Alla Sukhinina. With foreign currency swiftly depleted in exchange offices, Belarussians even launched a black market website, dollarnash.com, where individuals can buy and sell dollars and euros. While the central bank's exchange rate on Sunday was 10,900 rubles to the dollar, rates on the website were up to 17,000. FREE AppDownload
In July, research and consulting firm Corporate Insight presented an impressive number: $15.7 billion. That was the amount of money managed by the online investment platforms known as robo-advisers. By once again analyzing 11 leaders in the field this December, Corporate Insight has determined that since its last analysis, these robo-advisers have taken more than another $3 billion under management for a total of nearly $19 billion. This number represents a 21% increase since July, and a 65% increase since the first time the data was collected in April. "The continued growth of the newcomers and the recent actions of the major players prove that online advice is not a fleeting fad," Corporate Insight analyst Grant Easterbrook wrote in an email to Business Insider. "Human advisers must realize that the disruptive powers of the web and automation are here to stay." Corporate Insight looked at the influence of online platforms Wealthfront, Betterment, Assetbuilder, Covester, Financial Guard, FutureAdvisor, Jemstep, MarketRiders, Personal Capital, RebalanceIRA, and SigFig. Easterbrook says the innovative new partnerships and products announced by Fidelity, TD Ameritrade, TradeKing, and Charles Schwab, as well as the $161 million raised in funding rounds by four of these 11 robo-advisers this year, is clear evidence that robo-advice is being welcomed into the mainstream. The growth, segmented into "discretionary control" (money that's directly managed) and "paid investment advice," is shown in the chart below: Grant Easterbrook / Corporate Insight FREE AppDownload
The Russian economy has been through a lot. Over the last year, Western sanctions and crashing oil prices bruised the Russian economy. And this week was particularly bad. In an attempt to stabilize the ruble and inflation, the central bank raised rates up to 17%. Instead, the ruble plummeted to new lows reaching as low as 80 rubles to the dollar on Tuesday. But this isn't the first time Russia's seen economic problems. Over the last 150 years, the Russian economy experienced some serious blows in line with political upheavals: the Russian Civil war, WWII under Stalin, the fall of the Soviet Union, and the 2008-09 financial crisis. Check out the what's being going on over the last century and a half below (and if you need it bigger, just click on the image.) Goldman SachsSource: Barro-Ursua data set, IMF, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research.
Goldman SachsJan Hatzius. And Friday, he followed up with what actually happened. Overall, he did pretty well.  We jotted down a quick rundown of his questions and his self-assessment below. Check it out: That's about a 7 out of 10 (we'll give the unclear verdicts a half point here).  In markets and economics, 70% correct for one-year forecasts is pretty good if you ask us. FREE AppDownload
It's generally accepted that younger investors, who have more time to let their money ride out the market waves, have a higher tolerance for risk than their older counterparts. New data from investing app Openfolio found that investors under age 25 are taking full advantage of this truth. By analyzing the investments of 2,500 hundred of their user profiles, Openfolio found that the youngest investors are indeed taking more risk ... but they don't have much to show for it. Older investors, who take less risk, experience returns nearly three times as high as the under-25 set. "It doesn't surprise us that young investors take more risk," explains Openfolio cofounder Hart Lambur, "but it does surprise us that they take more risk and their returns are significantly worse." This risk, Lambur explains, comes largely from two patterns in particular: buying disproportionate amounts of stock in their favorite companies, and "swinging for the fences," trying to win big. This disparity is illustrated below: Openfolio "Younger investors are much more geared to invest in single stocks or single name companies," Lambur says. "They own a much smaller percentage of funds and ETFs." Specifically, they tend to hold about 61% of their portfolio in stocks, compared to the 49% of the older groups.  Openfolio "I don't want to opine too much on what the younger millennial thinks," Lambur continues, "but even in my own experience, I identify with the concept of buying a company you really like, or the concept of trying to swing for the fences and beat the market." However, he cautions, "You learn over time that if you're making bets like that, they're more bets, less investments — and they don't pan out." Openfolio There is an upside, though: Investors start seeing better returns as they get older (and more conservative). When Openfolio broke the users down into smaller cohorts, they found that users age 50-plus saw the best returns of any group. Those under 25 saw the lowest, so there's really only room for improvement. "I think we're seeing with older investors that there's a lesson learned," Lambur concludes. "There's less concentration on single name companies, and a greater understanding of diversifying a portfolio with funds and ETFs." Openfolio FREE AppDownload
Hillrock Estate DistilleryHillrock makes the only Solera-aged bourbon whiskey on the market.American craft distilleries are getting attention both here as well as across the pond. Back in August, The New York Times published an article about how boutique American spirits — from vodka to whiskey — are spreading around the globe. Small craft distilleries are producing some of the most complex and well-executed spirits on the market that are all mashed, distilled, and bottled by hand on-site. We spoke with Pamela Wiznitzer, a bartender and mixologist at New York bar, The Dead Rabbit, about the American craft distilleries that every liquor lover should know and try. Keep reading to see her picks (listed here in alphabetical order). Did we miss one of your favorites? Add it in the comments! FREE AppDownload
One of the common misconceptions people have about marijuana is that it isn't addictive. Dr. Samuel Ball of the National Center on Addiction and Substance Abuse at Columbia University (CASAColumbia) explains how marijuana has evolved over the years and debunks the myth that weed isn't an addictive substance. Produced by Will Wei. Follow BI Video: On Twitter
Thomson ReutersBelgium's Central Bank Governor Coene addresses a news conference in BrusselsBRUSSELS (Reuters) - The European Central Bank should start buying government bonds to tackle poor investor confidence and low inflation in the euro zone, governing council member Luc Coene said in an interview published on Saturday. The Belgian central bank chief said the bank had already waited too long, and that this could be one tool to spur economic activity in the 18-country euro zone and fight off deflationary pressures. "In this context, the purchase of sovereign bonds could prove to be an effective tool," he told La Libre Belgique. "Since the beginning of 2014, we have systematically underestimated deflationary effects...if we were to find ourselves at the beginning of next year with negative inflation and fall into a deflationary spiral, the effects on the behavior of households and businesses could be very negative." Inflation in the single currency area was 0.3 percent year-on-year in November, well below the ECB's headline target of inflation below, but close to 2 percent. The ECB Governing Council will hold its next policy meeting on Jan. 22.   (Reporting by Julia Fioretti; Editing by Mark Trevelyan) FREE AppDownload
The "Dog Whisperer" Cesar Millan is a world renowned dog behaviorist and entrepreneur. The Mexican-born immigrant rose to fame in 2004 with a hit TV show "Dog Whisperer with Cesar Millan" on National Geographic, and founded the Dog Psychology Center for the rehabilitation of aggressive dogs. But in 2010 he lost most of his fortune in a series of bad investments, his wife left him and his pitbull Daddy passed away. Millan was devastated and attempted suicide.  Three years later, Millan built his business back and expanded it internationally, starred in new TV series – "Cesar Millan's Leader of the Pack" (2013) and "Cesar 911" (2014), and wrote a new book.  In an interview with Behind The Brand, Millan reflects on hitting rock bottom and learning from his failure.  WATCH MORE: The Full Interview With Cesar Millan Behind The Brand takes you behind the scenes at some of the coolest brands as well as talk with world-class thought leaders and entrepreneurs so you can get an inside look at how they do it. Follow Behind The Brand: On YouTube Follow host Bryan Elliott: On Twitter
via TelegraphJoe, left, and James Lewis.A currency trader has vanished along with £130<U+2009>million in investors’ cash in an alleged fraud that could be one of the biggest in recent British history. Joe Lewis, 59, is being investigated by police over almost $200<U+2009>million which he claimed was in clients’ accounts but now no longer exists. It is rumoured that professional footballers and golfers have lost money in his investment scheme. In an email sent to clients a fortnight ago, Mr Lewis admitted that his company, JL Trading, had stopped operating in 2009 after suffering heavy losses on disastrous foreign exchange deals. He confessed in the email that he had continued taking people’s money for the next five years in an attempt to turn his fortunes around, but that all those attempts had failed. In an email sent a month earlier – in response to growing concern from investors trying to get their money out – he claimed that his company was having “a stressful time” releasing $197<U+2009>million (£126<U+2009>million) from American brokers because of US red tape. Whatever the truth, the reality for investors – many of them British – is that they have each lost a small fortune. Police have taken statements from a number of victims and begun an investigation into Mr Lewis. A civil action to freeze his accounts and seize any assets has also been started. The businessman, who traded from a smart residential address in Istanbul with views over the Bosporus, is understood to have left Turkey some weeks ago. His adult son said he had no idea where his father was. One report suggested he had briefly visited relations near Hull and may now be in the Far East. In the email sent on Dec 3, Mr Lewis wrote: “Dear investor, I am writing to inform you that JL Trading is ceasing to carry on business. Contrary to the impression that I have hitherto given, the business has lost almost all of its assets, and there appears no prospect of those assets being recouped. “JL Trading ceased foreign exchange trading in 2009 following substantial losses and since that time the business has suffered further losses, which I have tried to make good through investments in a number of commercial projects. However, it is now clear that the business will not be able to recover its losses and must cease trading. This means that, contrary to what was reported to you previously, you cannot expect any payments in the future. via TelegraphJoe Lewis' apartment.“I can only apologise unreservedly for any losses or unfulfilled expectations of profit. I have tried to recover the position for a considerable period of time, but it is now clear that I will be unable to do so. I sincerely regret that I have not been able to do better on your behalf.” Mr Lewis, a father of two, started his company about a decade ago, employing at its peak about 30 staff over two storeys of the residential block. He lived in a penthouse apartment with his Turkish wife. Investors had been attracted through word of mouth with the promise of monthly returns on his currency trades of between one and three per cent. They were also enticed through golf days in exotic locations such as Thailand. Since about 2011, only investors with a minimum of $25,000 (£16,000) could join his investment “club”. One client had invested about £500,000 in the past 12 months and is unlikely to get his money back; another is said to have put in £1.2<U+2009>million. Don Wall, 77, a retired businessman from Cambridgeshire, is owed about £100,000 by JL Trading. “These are my life savings,” he said, “This money was supposed to be savings for my children and grandchildren. I have never met the bloke and I don’t think I have ever spoken to him.” His son-in-law and daughter, who live abroad, also invested, as did a family friend. Mr Wall signed up in 2009 with an original investment of £10,000. He was able to withdraw about £7,000 and encouraged by the decent rates of return – the Bank of England interest rate had fallen to 0.5 per cent – he invested a further £100,000. Problems began in September last year. “I was asking could I draw some money out,” recalled Mr Wall, “And they started giving me excuses why they couldn’t do it.” Then the first of a series of email bombshells dropped. On Sept 10 this year, Mr Lewis sent an email to clients that explained that he was “not able to give an exact date when we can send monies out” due to ongoing problems with American regulators. Lawyers, he said, were working on it and “they have everything in hand”. On Nov 14, Mr Lewis sent another email. “We are going through a stressful time having our funds returned from our brokers; this has led to many doubts and concerns about the security of funds being held,” he wrote. His business was being wound up, but investors would all get their money back, he said. “So you can realise the extent of our business, our current values are: Due to clients, $197,000,000 in 893 accounts, worldwide. Due from Broker, $260,000,000 in 1 account, US,” he wrote, adding: “As we are no longer trading, these amounts should not change.” Then came the email of Dec 3, in which he admitted he had not traded currency for five years. Two days later, Mr Lewis sent out another email – the last anyone has received – changing his story again and in which he blamed the previous email on his legal team. “You have been sent an update this week which was worded by my lawyers, but I wanted everyone to know, I am not running away from things,” he wrote, “Whilst I regret some of the things I have done, I will do my best to remedy this situation. “Please note, I have covered up my mistakes from everyone including my staff, no one else knew what was happening.” Investors are not sure what to believe. Mr Wall has given a statement to Cambridgeshire Police. Mark Bavin, who introduced Mr Wall and others to the scheme and who helped to organise JL Trading’s golf days, has reported Mr Lewis to the authorities. Mr Bavin, who also invested heavily and has lost his money, said: “I am sure this is a massive fraud; almost certainly it’s a pyramid scheme. I have reported it to the fraud squad. We have all put money in and he has run off with all our money and that is as much as we know. I am owed significant sums.” Neil Rodrigues, a British engineer working in the oil industry, invested £26,000 in 2013, four years after Mr Lewis has admitted his company stopped operating. Mr Rodrigues said: “Most of my colleagues with spare cash invested in JL Trading. We have never got any money back.” One investment broker, who did not wish to be named, said he had 25 clients involved who had invested a total of £3.2<U+2009>million and not had a penny back. The broker had begun legal proceedings to have Mr Lewis’s accounts and assets frozen worldwide. On Facebook and on other internet sites, alleged victims have been urged to join the class action. Mr Lewis was unavailable for comment last week. He failed to answer emails and phone calls, and at his Istanbul apartment a doorman said he had not been seen for a few weeks. Mr Lewis’s son James said: “He [Joe Lewis] didn’t live extravagantly. I don’t know where the money’s gone. I am happy to share information with the legal entities. “Everything he had is ruined. There are no assets at all that I am aware of.”  FREE AppDownload
World View, a commercial balloon spaceflight company, released footage from a recent flight showing the view passengers will experience during their journey above earth. World View is a space tourism company that will bring its passengers more than 100,000 feet above the Earth's surface using a high-tech helium balloon. Tickets for the flight are $75,000, and the company hopes to begin flying in 2016. Video courtesy of World View Enterprises, Inc. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
BlissA lot of gifts women like are pretty general: makeup, accessories, some fun tech, and jewelry. Where people get confused is finding what kind of makeup, accessories, fun tech, or jewelry she actually wants.  Business Insider put together a list of specific items the modern lady in your life might want to find wrapped up, under a tree, or inside a stocking.  If you're really having trouble, send her this list and see what happens. You might learn something. FREE AppDownload
 Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) is waging a campaign against Antonio Weiss, a Wall Streeter who has been nominated to an undersecretary position at the US Treasury. Not surprisingly, given the lingering anti-Wall Street sentiment stemming from the financial crisis, Warren's supporters are getting behind her on this one. But this particular campaign is a waste of Warren's time and America's time.  Warren's considerable talents and efforts on behalf of America's middle-class families would be more effectively targeted elsewhere. But instead of using her powerful bully pulpit to clean up Wall Street itself, or to push for measures that would help the economy or those less fortunate, Warren is turning this minor nomination into a symbol for Wall Street's hold on Washington.  Warren also argues that Weiss — whose considerable talents could be used at Treasury — is not qualified for the job he's being nominated for. That dog won't hunt. Since 2009, Weiss has been the head of investment banking at Lazard, a small international asset-management and advisory firm. Lazard is not one of the colossal megabanks that imploded during the financial crisis, or one you'll see getting sued for this, that, and the other thing, every other day. Lazard is also not one of the firms that packaged and sold millions of near-worthless mortgage-backed securities, thus contributing to the housing bust.  Weiss was based in Paris for many years, handling big international deals that often require understanding complicated regulatory issues that vary by country. He's a member of the Council on Foreign Relations and a graduate of Yale and Harvard Business School.  Warren argues that this experience is wrong for the Treasury post, which deals with domestic-debt management and regulatory issues.  Others, including a group of former Treasury officials who have actually done the job, disagree. They wrote a letter saying there's no way any one person could be perfectly prepared for such a unique job — undersecretary for domestic finance — and that Weiss' skill set is about as close as it comes. The Obama administration hasn't backed down from supporting him, either. Unfortunately, none of Weiss' supporters come close to making the noise that Warren's camp can make when they're really into something. She has an amazing base of support, mostly well-deserved, and many Americans who hadn't even heard of her a year or two ago are now calling for her to run for president. But this campaign isn't the place where Warren's supporters should be focusing their ire.  One advantage of having a Wall Streeter in the Treasury is that they're not afraid of Wall Street. The executives whose firms Weiss will have to regulate and negotiate with will be the same people he used to compete with and negotiate against, not people he one day hopes to get a job from. Weiss' salary at Lazard made him more than financially secure. His job at Treasury will be a massive pay cut.  Weiss's real-world expertise, in fact, is exactly what we need at Treasury, which is for the most part staffed with career bureaucrats. Weiss' job as a top mergers-and-acquisitions banker was to get the best deal for his client. Now his client will be America. So it's a shame that Warren is wasting her formidable intelligence, charm, and leadership on this particular campaign. Her other crusades have been more useful. Forgiving some student-loan debt, for example, could help spur economic growth by putting more money in young people's pockets and helping them start to do things that became impossible after the financial crisis — like putting a down payment on their first house. The creation of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, Warren's first pre-Senate effort, is also a noble cause. If it works as envisioned, it will help protect Americans from shady financial products. That's something everyone can use. Elizabeth Warren has proven that she can make amazing changes that help ordinary Americans. Blocking Antonio Weiss from the Treasury won't be one of them.      FREE AppDownload
 Since it became the first state to ratify the U.S. Constitution in 1787, Delaware has maintained a low profile as far as states go, yet technically it's home to a stunning amount of businesses.  Like its official state bug, the ladybug, most people think positively of Delaware, if they think of it all, but nonresidents probably don't know much about "The First State." Nonetheless, Delaware has become a hotbed for business -- or at least for the paperwork involved in creating business. More than 60% of publicly traded companies are incorporated in the second-smallest state, according to The New York Times, so what it lacks in land mass it more than makes up for in influence. The vast majority of these companies have headquarters elsewhere, making them Delawareans in name only, but the state has still built up a nice business as a place to incorporate businesses. An earlier Times article reported that "Delaware collected roughly $860 million in taxes and fees from its absentee corporate residents" in 2011, a quarter of the state's total budget for the year. By being business-friendly, offering low taxes, and making it very easy to set up shell companies -- business entities that have no operations or assets, but can be used for legal tax avoidance -- Delaware has become the go-to place for legitimate (and less legitimate) companies to incorporate. That has given the state both revenue and power.  "This critical mass means that Delaware decides how companies are governed and is so prominent that its decisions on corporate law influence how other state courts act," according to last week's Times article. Why Delaware?ShutterstockWilmington, Delaware. That document, distributed by the Delaware Department of State Division of Corporations, makes a compelling case for incorporating in the state, including: The paper lists more, many more, reasons, but the Times in 2012 nailed the No. 1 reason: It is also a great place to reduce a tax bill. Delaware today regularly tops lists of domestic and foreign tax havens because it allows companies to lower their taxes in another state -- for instance, the state in which they actually do business or have their headquarters -- by shifting royalties and similar revenues to holding companies in Delaware, where they are not taxed. Widely known as "the Delaware loophole," the paper reported, the rules allowed businesses to reduce taxes paid to other states by an estimated $9.5 billion between 1992 and 2012. The loophole is not quite as simple as "incorporate in Delaware and pay no taxes." The state actually has a relatively high corporate tax rate of 8.7%, but "Delaware does not tax certain profit-making intangible items — like trademarks, royalties, leases and copyrights," Bradley P. Lindsey, an accounting professor at North Carolina State University and one of three authors of a 2011 study Exploring the Role Delaware Plays as a Domestic Tax Haven, told theTimes. Some companies exploit this by transferring these intangible items to shell corporations in Delaware, then paying significant "royalty fees" from the pool of revenue generated elsewhere. In doing this, they transfer taxable revenue into tax-exempt profits. It's good for business and good for DelawareWhile this arrangement has drawn concern because the rules can be used to benefit illicit corporations as well as legitimate ones, it has been beneficial to the state and countless companies. Delaware's coffers have grown fat with fees from the deals, and being a haven for incorporation has led to job creation in the state -- albeit at law firms that aid in the process, not businesses that make or do anything. Of course, what's good for Delaware is bad for the other states that lose out on tax revenue. But as long as there are no federal standards for incorporation, companies will continue to exploit this situation and Delaware will gladly profit off it. Surprisingly, the IRS can be your friendIt may seem crazy, but after reading this you might actually like the IRS. Folks like you and me aren’t the only people looking to reduce our tax bills. And one company has found an ingenious tax loophole that lets them avoid income tax. But there’s a catch – they have to pay you to keep that tax break. Find out more here.  This article originally appeared at The Motley Fool.  Copyright 2014. Follow The Motley Fool on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
The situation in Russia isn't good. The ruble had a meltdown on Tuesday after the Russian central bank unexpectedly hiked interest rates, and following these developments many began wondering what the broader — or "contagion" — impacts could be. In a note to clients, Andrew Kenningham at Capital Economics put Russia's economy into a more global perspective, writing that "both trade and financial links between Russia and the rest of the world remain too small for Russia's plight to have major global implications." Kenningham notes that Russia accounts for just 2.7% of world GDP and the country's share of world trade is around 1.7%.  And while Russia is a big trade partner for countries like Poland and the Czech Republic, for economic heavyweights like the US, the UK, China, and Japan, "exports to Russia are of negligible importance." And even for Germany, Europe's biggest economy, Russia is just the eleventh biggest export destination, lagging countries like Poland and Belgium.  Capital Economics FREE AppDownload
Having noticed his tweet about the market's enthusiastic response to Wednesday’s Fed decision, Business Insider reached out to Mohamed El-Erian for his insights.  Here are his responses. Where you surprised by the FOMC decision? Yes, and in two ways: First that central bankers refrained from cleanly removing the “considerable period” language; and second that they adopted a rather complex formulation that gives them optionality but at the risk of market confusion. What did not surprise me is the challenge the FOMC is having in maintaining unanimity as it tries to navigate a tricky policy pivot in a gradual and measured manner – thus the large number of dissenters (three) which reflects more than these regional bank presidents wishing to place markers as they rotate off the voting group. How about the equity markets’ reaction? Impressive, really impressive. It speaks to the extent to which the Fed still influences stock markets around the world.  It also suggests that, at least from an equities’ perspective, the recent remarks of Fed officials and the resulting market positioning had in fact opened a window for the orderly removal of the “considerable period” language. And other markets? Whether its currencies or government bonds, there you get a sense of the larger influence of the underlying fundamentals. They seem more mindful of the increasing divergence within the advanced world as it relates to the prospects for economic performance and monetary policy. Should the Fed statement had included more on oil, Russia, geo-politics and Europe’s economic malaise? I suspect that these issues were all discussed at the FOMC meeting, and for good reasons. The Fed is trying to strike a delicate balance between responding to a broadly improving domestic economy and being cautious on account of headwinds from the rest of the world.  We will get a better sense of the content of their discussions once the minutes and, much later, the transcripts are released. As regards the FOMC statement itself, the Fed has historically focused almost exclusively on the domestic economy.   Mohamed A. El-Erian is the former CEO/co-CIO of PIMCO. He is Chief Economic Advisor at Allianz and member of its International Executive Committee, Chair of President Obama’s Global Development Council and author of the NYT/WSJ bestseller “When Markets Collide.” Follow him on twitter @elerianm FREE AppDownload
To start your day off with a happy hypothetical, let’s say you’ve been following our advice on how to build a buffer account. It’s going so well that now you’ve got a little money you’d like to invest. “Great — I’m going to get started today!” you think. Then you Google “How do I get started investing?” and learn that you can choose from thousands and thousands of mutual funds, ETFs, stocks, bonds, brokerages, and asset classes. “Hmm, I’ll get started investing tomorrow. Today: Candy Crush.” I know how you feel. Last month I was in Japan, and my earbuds broke. So I went to a big electronics store, figuring they’d have a few to choose from. Did they ever. I spent over an hour trying out earbuds before buying a new pair of the same ones that broke. I can’t help you choose headphones, but whether you have $100, $1000, or $10,000 to invest, I can help you get started. In investing, as in headphones, “good enough” is better than driving yourself crazy figuring out the perfect solution. Buy one share of a stock market Exchange-Traded Fund (ETF) and a good introductory book on investing such as "The Elements of Investing," by Malkiel and Ellis. Which ETF should you buy and where? Let me make it easy. Open an account with TD Ameritrade. Opt into the commission-free ETF program. Buy one share of the Vanguard Total World Stock ETF (VT) for about $59. Congratulations! You now own (a piece of) 5351 different stocks from about 50 countries. Now, read the investing book and keep saving money. Why TD Ameritrade? They make it easy to get started with a low balance without zinging you with fees. Another option: Betterment.com has a extremely simple sign-up process and will let you invest the whole $100. They do charge higher fees than TD (the fees decrease as your investment increases) and require you to invest an additional $100/month minimum until you hit $10,000. Open an account at Vanguard (make it an IRA or Roth IRA if you’re eligible to contribute to one) and put $1000 in the target-date fund of your choice. These funds are cheap and own a diversified mix of stocks and bonds. Go ahead and drop another $20 on that investing book (or get it from the library). You’ll learn that even with a low-cost, diversified portfolio, sometimes you’ll lose money. Sometimes a lot of money. That’s no reason to avoid investing. It’s a good reason to control what you can (keep costs low, diversify, and avoid active management), invest according to your risk tolerance (don’t own 100% stocks if you won’t be able to sleep at night), and stay calm when everyone else is panicking. The Vanguard target-date fund is still an excellent choice. In fact, it would still be an excellent choice if you had $1 million to invest. Wealthy folks have access to special investment opportunities that the rest of us don’t. Lucky for us, those special opportunities (such as hedge funds) are usually much worse than the boring mutual funds and ETFs we have to settle for. Another option: Wealthfront is a snazzy automated investment management site with a $5000 minimum and no fees for the first $10,000. It’s easy to get started, and they offer some tax management features that Vanguard doesn’t. If you have a 401(k) at work, you’re probably better off investing there than in your own account. You might get an employer match, and once you set up payroll deduction, you’ll keep saving automatically without thinking about it. "The Elements of Investing" can help you choose good funds in your 401(k). As you accumulate more money in your investment accounts, the rules of good investing don’t change. They just get more important. There’s a big different between losing $100 and losing $10,000 (or $100,000, or more). Now, if anyone can explain to me how to prevent my headphones from breaking all the time, I’m all ears. (Groan.) FREE AppDownload
“I don’t know.” These three words don’t inspire a lot of confidence in the messenger and probably will not get me invited onto CNBC, but that is exactly what I think about the topic I am about to discuss. I received a few e-mails from people who had a problem with a phrase in one of my  blog posts this fall. In that article I examined various risks that other investors and I are concerned about. The phrase was “the prospect of higher, maybe even much higher, interest rates.” These readers were convinced that higher interest rates and inflation are not a risk because we are not going to have them for a long, long time, that we are heading into deflation. These readers basically told me that I should worry about the things that will come next, not things that may or may not happen years and years down the road. I am pretty sure that if that phrase had addressed the risk of deflation and lower interest rates ahead, I’d have gotten as many e-mails arguing that I was wrong — that we’ll soon have inflation and skyrocketing interest rates, and deflation is not going to happen. I don’t know whether we are going to have inflation or deflation in the near future. More important, I’d be very careful about trusting my money to anyone holding very strong convictions on this topic and positioning my portfolio on the basis of them. Any poker player knows that the worst thing that can happen is to have the second-best hand. If you have a weak hand, you are going to play defensively or fold (unless you are bluffing) and likely won’t lose much. But if you’re pretty confident in your hand, you may bet aggressively (god forbid you go all-in) — after all, you could easily have the winning cards. Four of a kind is a great poker hand unless your opponent has a straight flush. Generally, the more confident you are in an investment, the larger portion of your portfolio will be placed in that position. Therefore super-convinced inflationists will load up on gold, and super-convinced deflationists will be swimming in long-term bonds. If their predictions are right, they’ll make a boatload of money. If they’re wrong, however, they will have the second-best-hand problem — and lose a lot of money. The complexity of the global economy has been increased by monetary and fiscal government interventions everywhere. There is no historical example to which you can point and say, “That is what happened in the past, and this time looks just like that.” When was the last time every major global economy was this overlevered and overstimulated? I think never. (Okay almost never, but you have to go back to World War II.) What is going to happen when the Fed unwinds its $4 trillion balance sheet? I don’t know. Also the transmission mechanism of problems in our new global economy is so much more dynamic now than it was even a decade ago. Just think about the importance of China to the global economy today versus 2004. That year U.S. imports from China stood at $196 billion. Just in the first eight months of 2014, they were $293 billion. China was single-handedly responsible for the appreciation of hard commodities (oil, iron ore, steel) over the past decade as it gobbled up the bulk of incremental demand. I don’t want to sink to the level of the one-armed economist — but conversation about inflation and deflation is just that, an “on one hand . . . but on the other hand” discussion. Just like in poker, second-best hands may be tolerable if, when you went all-in, you did not leverage your house, empty your kid’s college fund or pawn your mother-in-law’s cat. Even if you lost your money, you will live to play another hand — maybe just not today. In the “I don’t know” world, second-best hands when you bet on inflation or deflation are acceptable on an individual position level (you can survive them) but are extremely dangerous, maybe fatal, on an overall portfolio level. Investing in the current environment requires a lot of humility and an acceptance of the fact that we know very little of what the future holds. I’d want the person who manages my money to have some discomfort with his or her economic crystal ball and to construct my portfolio for the “I don’t know” world. As a writer, you know you are in trouble when you have to quote both Albert Einstein and Mahatma Gandhi in the same paragraph, but when I ask readers to do something as difficult as I am in this column, I need all the help I can get. “It is unwise to be too sure of one’s own wisdom,” Gandhi said. “It is healthy to be reminded that the strongest might weaken and the wisest might err.” Einstein took the idea a step further: “A true genius admits that he/she knows nothing.” Smarter and humbler people than me were willing to say, “I don’t know,” and it is okay for us mortals to say it too. Repeat after me . . . FREE AppDownload
From explosives to LEGO bricks to actual human tears, artists in 2014 stepped away from traditional mediums to showcase their talents. Here are 7 of the most unique exhibits that were on display this year. Produced by Alex Kuzoian. Video courtesy of Associated Press. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
The powerful divergence theme re-emerged and effectively ended the dramatic correction throughout the capital markets. The FOMC statement strengthened conviction of a mid-2015 lift off, even if the pace of tightening may be somewhat slower than previously anticipated. At the same time, the Swiss National Bank's decision to move to negative interest rates, partly in anticipation of the ECB expanding its asset purchases as early as next month, underscores that Europe remains well behind the US in the credit cycle. Rather than attribute the downdraft in the dollar and equity markets to a shift in underlying fundamental drivers, we had seen the hand of a technical correction, driven by short-term market positioning, and aggravated by year-end portfolio adjustments.      Indeed the euro peaked within a few ticks of the 50% retracement objective of its losses from the October 15 high near $1.29. For its part, the dollar's dramatic slide against the yen stopped just shy of a key retracement objective of its rally from both October 15 and October 31 that was found near JPY115.50. We expect the dollar's higher trend to continue.  However, the lack of participation over the next two weeks could obscure this trend.    The Dollar Index made a new high before the weekend near 89.65.  A move above 90.00, which has held back previous dollar bounces since the onset of the Great Financial Crisis, would signal an acceleration of the dollar 's advance.   Initial support is pegged in the 88.80 area.   The euro recorded a new low for the move just before the weekend near $1.2220.   A break of $1.2200 would suggest losses toward $1.20.  It has not been able to resurface much above $1.2300 since breaking below in response to the SNB's decision. Technical indicators suggest the dollar's uptrend against the yen will resume.  The move above JPY119.50 strengthens the conviction that the greenback is on its way back to the December 8 high near JPY121.85 and beyond.   Initial dollar support is seen in the JPY118.50-80 area. Sterling is not particularly interesting at the moment.  It caught between the strength of the dollar and the weakness of other currencies, including the euro, Swiss franc, yen and Australian dollars.  Against the greenback, it has been confined largely to a $1.56-$1.58 trading range since mid-November.    There has been a handful of violations of the two-cent range.    Technical indicators suggest risk remains to the downside.  Sterling set a low near $1.5540 on December 17, but the snap back into the range seemed halfhearted.  Resistance is seen $15680-$1.5700.      The dollar-bloc currencies are still headed lower.  They did not participate in the bounce that the euro and yen enjoyed.  Resistance in the Australian dollar is now pegged near $0.8200.  Our next important target is near $0.8000, ahead of that are the lows from 2010 around $0.8060-70.    The US dollar reached a high of roughly CAD1.1675 on December 15, this was the lower end of the range we have been suggesting the greenback had near-term potential toward.  The upper end of that range is near CAD1.1725.  Since recording the highs, the US dollar has not been below CAD1.1560. The dollar peaked against the Mexican peso on December 12 near MXN14.95.  Five days later it had slumped to MXN14.37.  By the end of the week, the dollar's bull move appears to have  had recovered to above MXN14.70  In the days ahead, the dollar may consolidate its gains.  It could pullback toward MXN14.50, though, over the medium term, it appears the dollar can retest the 2009 high near MXN15.60.  The US 10-year yield bounced off of the 2.0% level to near 2.25%, where the rally faded.  Economic data out next week are expected to show stronger capex (durable goods orders) and stronger growth momentum (upward revision to Q3 GDP to above 4%).  This may limit the pullback in yields. At the same time, we note that the premium the US pays over Germany widened out to almost 160 bp this week.  This is the largest premium since mid-1999.  It began the year near 110 bp.  The widening was a result of German bund yields falling further than US yields fell.  Although the US 10-year yield remains relatively low, the 2-year yield has firmed, and at 65 bp is 1-2 bp below the five-year high set earlier this month.  The US premium over German at this tenor is about 73 bp, which represents a new three-year high.  These relative interest rate developments are understood to be constructive for the dollar. The S&amp;P 500 gapped higher December 18 following a strong close the previous day after the FOMC meeting and seemingly aided by the Swiss National Bank's move to negative interest rates.    It had advanced further before the weekend.   From the mid-week low to the pre-weekend high, the S&amp;P 500 gained about 95 points or 5.2%. That gap is between 2016.75 to 2018.98.  We do not look for this gap to be filled in the near-term.  Rather the gap, like the one on October 21,  signals the end to the corrective losses and the resumption of the bull advance that carries it to new highs. There is a reasonable chance that the February crude oil futures contract has put in a short-term low around $54.30-60.  The RSI is turning up, and the MACD is about to cross. The sellers were pulling back, and bargain hunting was reported.   The $60.00 level is the first hurdle and near $63.00. Observations based on the speculative positioning the in futures market: 1.  There was only one significant position adjustment of more than 10k in the latest CFTC Commitment of Traders report for the week ending December 16.  It was the 12.4k  contract reduction in the gross short euro position, leaving 182k contracts still short.  The net short position has been reduced by 52k contracts since peaking in early November, which is fully accounted for by short covering.  2.  There were several other gross currency positions that changed by almost 10k contracts.  The short yen position was reduced by 9.6k contracts to 132.6k.  The gross long Swiss franc position doubled to 18.9k.  The speculative gross long Australian dollar position increased by 9.4k contracts to 26.8k.  3.   All the currency futures we track here but the Canadian dollar saw gross short positions trimmed in the latest week.  This seems very much consistent with squaring up ahead of the holiday season.   For its part, the gross short Canadian dollar position rose a by 300 contracts.  4.  The speculative net short US 10-year Treasury futures position increased by 20% to 258k contracts.  A full 10% of the gross long position was liquidated, or 32.3k contracts were sold to leave 273.4k still long.   The gross short position increased by 24.6k contracts lifting the short position at 531.6k contracts.  It has risen by 70k contracts over the past three reporting weeks. Over the same period, the gross long position has fallen by 110k contracts.  FREE AppDownload
It's oh so easy to put an electronic device in front of children to distract them. But Dan Siegel, founding codirector of the Mindful Awareness Research Center, advocates caution. Don't allow devices to stunt important development. Produced by Justin Gmoser Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Mohammed Islam, a 17-year-old high school senior, faced a camera in the fluorescent-lit offices of his press representatives and told an audience of strangers that his father wasn’t speaking to him: “My dad’s always told me to be truthful and I went against everything he said. I can’t even express how I can’t speak properly to him any more”. Two years earlier, Islam had told a well-known stock trader that he wanted to break into finance to help his family. Now his family was ashamed of him. He told a reporter, “my dad wanted to disown me. My mom basically said she’d never talk to me. They ... basically wanted to kill me and I haven’t spoken to them since”. Two days earlier, Islam’s name had gone viral. A New York Magazine profile of him in the magazine’s “Reasons to Love New York” issue presented him as a financial whiz kid, with a BMW he was not yet old enough to drive and a multimillion-dollar apartment his parents wouldn’t let him move to; a search of his name linked to the word “trading” still returns over 100,000 Google results, including articles in publications as diverse as the Latin Post and E! Online. The fame turned to notoriety fast. When his lies crashed down around him, Islam was sitting with a friend in a black car hired to take them to the Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey headquarters of the financial news network CNBC. Islam and his high school buddy, Damir Tulemaganbetov, were going there to tell the story of how Islam made millions of dollars in the stock market – a story that had already been told in the pages of the Stuyvesant High School Spectator, Business Insider and most importantly, New York Magazine. When CNBC called, Islam and his friend had been riding high on the adulation that resulted from profiles and dozens of media stories about Islam’s trading prowess; he later said: “we were both excited by the attention given by the media hype”. Islam, the working-class child of immigrants, was getting the respect he had hoped for since he was an insecure 15-year-old looking to break into trading, hoping it would help his family and win him admiration. But Islam’s story was falling apart – fast. The same reporter from Business Insider who had first featured Islam in the publication’s ’20 under 20’ feature called the kids in the car. She wanted more facts. She hammered Tulemaganbetov with questions: did Islam have proof of his trades? Did he have details on his investments? None were forthcoming. Tulemaganbetov refused, insisting he was “pretty sure” Islam is “a great trader” and a “genius” who deserved the hype. Tulemaganbetov walked back the claim that Islam had made $72m, but still insisted that his friend earned a fortune. His confidence hid considerable anxiety: the call left Islam and Tulemaganbetov rattled. They were 15 minutes late to CNBC, and by the time they got there, a source says the kids were nervous – so much so, in fact, that another source says they didn’t want to get out of the car. Bebeto Matthews/APEventually a CNBC producer escorted the kids into the building and to the office of CNBC editor-in-chief Nik Deogun, a former top editor at the Wall Street Journal. Deogun started peppering the kids with questions: how much money was involved, the initial strategy, details of the stocks and other trades. Islam described a strategy that ranged from penny stocks to options and the most arcane products on Wall Street: derivatives. Islam, visibly nervous, did most of the talking, according to a source familiar with the conversation. Deogun asked: “It’s not $72m, is it?” Islam acknowledged it wasn’t and said he didn’t know where the number came from. Deogun then presented an option to the teenagers, according to a source familiar with the conversation, giving the kids a warning to the effect of: “You cannot lie on our air ... eventually, it’s going to come out. We’re going to ask you tough questions and just know you can’t lie”. Then Deogun asked them if they still wanted to go on the show. Islam and Tulemaganbetov asked for time to confer privately in another office. Islam appeared “terrified”, said a source familiar with the scene. When they returned to speak to Deogun, they decided to back out. The drama, however, was not over. While they were still in the building, CNBC reporter Scott Wapner came over and quizzed the kids about whether Islam made eight figures, as the rumor had it. Islam admitted to something more in the range of $3m. Wapner reported on air that Islam was backing away from his claims. The same source familiar with conversation said that the visibly distressed Islam gave a strong impression of being in over his head. The CNBC episode set off a subsequent battery of public questions as skeptics piled up. What came out later revealed that the young man, apparently looking for attention and approval, had been building for years a string of lies about Wall Street prowess. Islam later said he’d made it all up, agreeing with the New York Observer that his trading gains were “total fiction”. “I pretended to be something I’m not and I’m extremely sorry”, he said in an apology in which he said he had only done simulated trading. “Seventeen-year-old boys don’t always tell the truth. Is that a mystery to anyone, whether they are a reporter or not?” Ronn Torossian, a spokesman for Islam and Tulemaganbetov, told the Guardian. The accounting of Islam’s embellishments, however, was more extensive than the usual puffery of adolescence. Even before the fake BMW, the nonexistent multimillion-dollar apartment, and the fake bank statements that Islam created for the benefit of New York Magazine, he had a history of making claims that seem fantastical in retrospect. Islam first burst into the spotlight when he was profiled as a boy-wonder trader by Business Insider and named one of its ‘20 under 20’, an honor for which Islam had been nominated by his peers. The Business Insider piece led to another, longer profile by the newspaper at Islam’s elite New York City high school, Stuyvesant, a public magnet school, which counts among its alumni four Nobel Prize winners. In 2013, profiled in the Stuyvesant Spectator with the headline “Golden Boy”, Islam told a classmate-reporter that he started trading penny stocks at 11 under the tutelage of a cousin who worked at Goldman Sachs. (Islam later told New York Magazine that he started trading at 9 years old). He furnished numbers to the Spectator reporter: he made $1,000 to $2,000 every day by trading during lunch breaks and at night, he claimed, and fended off job offers of $9,000 to $12,000 a month. He invented a chimerical portfolio and trading expertise, which covered three asset classes – from stocks to oil and gold futures – with dollops of jargon about two different strategies. He told the Spectator that he made simulated trades for eight months before jumping into the stock market during middle school “with money he had saved from tutoring,” the paper wrote. The teenager, if his tale were true, would be accomplishing something few adults could: he seemed to be a one-man hedge fund at the least and possibly a child prodigy, the Mozart of trading. It was a difficult-to-dismiss possibility in the halls of Stuyvesant, where unusually bright teenagers are thick on the ground and kids win national recognition for research alongside adult professionals on mysteries including “erythroid differentiation through a non-autophagic cellular mechanism”. Perhaps because of this, it appears no one fully checked every one of Islam’s claims. His fibs seemed to grow even faster than his ambitions. His story included not just wins, but plausible losses. “I once lost $1,400 in a day and I got really scared,” he told The Spectator. “So I spoke to some of my friends and they told me to chill.” The way the story has it, that was the end of his trading with penny stocks and his move into oil and gold futures. Islam also told the Stuyvesant reporter that his father was out of work, and that his trading helped the family. But later, as his reputation and his story grew, Islam told a professional reporter that he traded stocks and commodities under his father’s account. He spun a tale that his father was an experienced trader who focused on “algorithmic trading” and “believes in mathematical models”. In his final admission, Islam reversed the story, and said that no one in his family was interested in finance. Islam and his family live in a two-bedroom apartment in Queens, he said. Islam’s tales, though outlandish in retrospect, by all accounts raised very little suspicion among his classmates and teachers. Islam later fended off reporters with bogus bank statements and other falsehoods; even his public relations man appeared to believe or at least paper over some of his fibs. Ronn Torossian, a public relations advisor who managed the press for both Islam and Tulemaganbetov, initially wrote to the Guardian that Islam never furnished official documents to New York Magazine, as the publication claimed: “my client maintains that there were never bank statements of any sort shown to any reporter”. But Islam himself recounted a slightly different tale. Islam told the New York Observer that he had purposely misled New York Magazine with fake bank documents: “I showed them what they wanted to see”. “It’s a thin line” between official bank statements and a “piece of paper,” Torossian later told the Guardian by way of squaring the contradiction between his statement and that of his client. Tulemaganbetov, who New York Magazine described as the son of a Kazakh oligarch, is the one who helped project the aura of wealth during the boys’ meetings with the New York magazine reporter, paying a combined $600 for the two meals, according to the New York Observer. Torossian declined multiple requests to make Islam available. The Business Insider reporter did not respond to an emailed request for comment. The New York Magazine reporter referred requests for comment to a spokesperson, who referred the Guardian to a statement saying the magazine was “duped” and added, “our fact-checking process was obviously inadequate; we take full responsibility and we should have known better.” The fact that Islam’s stories carried so far likely reflect the fervent will to believe of a teenager desperate to improve his circumstances, and who diligently studied trading as a way out and fantasized about a better life – but without enough money to actually start making significant bets. The stories Islam told classmates, friends and reporters seemed to reflect the person he wanted to be in the future but – crucially – was not in the present. While the Guardian has not been able to confirm the existence of the cousin at Goldman Sachs, who apparently got Islam interested in the stock market, it has tracked Islam’s more open interest in the stock market. The tales that followed traced the anatomy of a story that swept the national media. The first evidence of Islam’s interest in trading dates to July 2012. It was then that Islam emailed Timothy Sykes, a young investor who trains others, asking Sykes to consider him for one of his courses. Sykes, who claims to have turned $12,000 of his bar mitzvah money into $1.65m in four years, hand-picks candidates for his “trading challenge” – a course in which he shares his experience with the stock market and has the candidates apply it in real time. There is just one catch: Sykes doesn’t work with people who are dependent on the money they are looking to invest. “I get emails like this everyday, [people] wanting to learn. There is nothing wrong with wanting to learn, but basically he wanted to learn and in his application to us he said he needs the money to basically live,” Sykes told the Guardian. Sykes refused to take Islam as a student: “I don’t teach people who have that little money because their mindset isn’t right. They are trying to make $500 to $1,000 so that they can pay the next month’s rent and that’s not how you become a real, successful trader,” explains Sykes. Islam was persistent. Despite the fact that he wasn’t accepted for Sykes’ trading challenge, Islam continued to request guidance about proper tools and software through Sykes’ website. Sykes says he believes the questions reflected Islam’s inexperience. “If you have made $72m or even $7.2m or even $720,000, you wouldn’t be asking for that”, Sykes says. In his application for Sykes’ challenge, seen by the Guardian, Islam wrote that he wanted to improve his financial situation to help take care of his family, that he wanted people to look at him differently. While Islam’s stories of a fabulous life never held up, there was one thing that he seems to have been telling the truth about all along: he loves the stock market, or at least the idea of what it can do. The application portrays Islam as someone who “wants to learn, somebody who wants to be a great trader, somebody who wants to do his family proud,” says Sykes. Islam and Tulemaganbetov maintain a positive outlook, according to their most recent interview with the New York Observer. “It’s not good, what we did. But we are still inspired. We still want to pursue doing business together as individuals”, Tulemaganbetov told The Observer. “We still want to be successful and make money and make our parents proud. And I think if they were to make a movie about this, it would be about the end, not the beginning”. Others are not so sure that movie ends well. “It’s a huge black mark on the internet with his name,” says Sykes. “Everybody in finance, they’ll remember the name Mohammed Islam – and they won’t remember it in a good way.” On Wall Street, however, several traders argued that an ability to bluff, along with a passion to make money, are the elements of a successful trader, and wouldn’t rule out the possibility that Islam could one day reach his ambitions. Whatever happens, it’s hard to believe Islam’s future will be boring. He told the Stuyvesant Spectator that his favorite part of trading was the lack of monotony. “My favorite part of this entire institute is risk”, he told his classmate. “Every day is an exciting experience and you never get used to it. It’s an exciting day, every day”. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jessica Rinaldi Many on Wall Street are confident that the rally in equities will continue through 2015. And when investors bet that certain stocks will fall, it can be hard to tell because they are not required to disclose their short positions. But SunGard, one of the largest financial technology companies in the world, has a product called Astec Analytics, that tracks securities lending data — a proxy for short selling. Short sellers borrow stocks and they don't purchase them until the end of the trade. SunGard shared its data on the most shorted stocks in 2014 with us, broken down by sector. It includes the number of shares borrowed and the cost to do this over a year ("annualized borrowing cost"), to show how big a bet investors were willing to make on these companies. The stocks are ranked by the total amount of borrowing fees collected. SunGard then picked the most interesting stocks from the top end of the list of stocks shorted by volume. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Maxim ShipenkovFor many Russians, the door may be closing on London's high-end property market.Russian buyers are flooding out of London's property market, according to an amazing Bloomberg piece.  Sanctions, bank limitations on withdrawals and the shattered ruble are killing Russian demand for luxury London housing. All but the most wealthy Oligarchs are getting hit by the country's crisis, according to the article: The London property market has already slowed down: According to the Office For National Statistics, prices in London were up by 17.2% in the year to October. That's actually a drop from the increases seen earlier in the year. However, most analysts aren't putting that down to fewer Russian buyers. The ruble has now declined to such an extent that buying property in another currency, like sterling, is around twice as expensive as it was at the beginning of the year. Ordinary Russians are queueing up to get hold of dollars, and panic-buying in stores. Some real estate experts are even more unequivocal about the disappearance of Russian buyers from the market. This from Bloomberg again: Russian buyers had previously been the biggest international market for London property, but they've been supplanted this year by French and Italian purchasers. If the trend continues, Russian buyers are likely to fall well behind a lot of other countries too. 
KCNA KCNA/ReutersEveryone's heard about North Korea, the hermit kingdom that hangs off the east coast of China. Condoleezza Rice called it an "outpost of tyranny." George W. Bush said it was one-third of the "axis of evil." And now James Franco and Seth Rogen have a comedy about it, much to Pyongyang's disapproval. Despite all of that, we really don't know that much about North Korea. But what we do know is rather mindblowing. FREE AppDownload
© AFP Lionel BonaventureAn employee holds a meal tray at airline catering company Servair's factory at Paris' Roissy - Charles de Gaulle airporton December 8, 2014Paris (AFP) - Michelin-star food and vintage champagne: airlines are pulling out all the stops to cater to their top-tier passengers' tastes, as they seek a larger slice of the highly profitable market. "Business class has become the main battleground for all companies because the market in this very profitable sector is highly competitive and the clients very demanding," said Bertrand Mouly-Aigrot, aviation expert at Archery strategy consulting. The consultancy estimates the airline food market is worth a tasty 10 billion euros ($12.3 billion) with a wide discrepancy between the various classes of travel. A dish in economy tends to cost between five and nine euros, business class between 15 and 30 euros and for first class, the sky is -- literally -- the limit. Singapore Airlines touts itself as "the only company to offer the world's two most prestigious champagnes: Dom Perignon and Krug Grande Cuvee". The airline spends around 18.4 million euros ($22.5 million) every year just on champagne and wine, with catering amounting to 5.5 percent of its total costs. And with companies scrambling to stand out from the crowd with the extravagance of their menu, they are hiring top chefs to create tasty morsels. "A meal helps to make people feel secure, to comfort people, to de-stress people," said Anne-Sophie Pic, the only female chef in France to hold three Michelin stars, who creates the first-class menu for Air France. But serving haute cuisine to highly international and demanding diners at 30,000 feet brings its own challenges. The chefs have to create a menu without certain ingredients -- raw fish is banned for example and cabbage and beans ill-advised given the close proximity and confined environment of the cabin. Cultural niceties also have to be taken into account and not just the well-known aversions to pork: rabbit, for example, is considered delicious in France but seen as bad luck in certain religions -- not what you want when flying. Additionally, tastebuds act differently at altitude and the cabin air is very dry, which also affects how the food tastes. Chefs find themselves having to add flavour enhancers to compensate. "We add ginger to our sauces to give them a certain bite," said Michel Nugues, one of the top chefs at Servair airline catering firm. The challenges don't stop there. Getting the timing and balance of flavours right for a Michelin-star dish is hard enough on the ground, never mind when having to reheat the food at altitude. At the main Paris airport, Charles de Gaulle, thousands of sous-chefs whip up the food, dress the plate, then chill and store the meals that are served around the clock on planes around the world. When just a few seconds of overheating can destroy a meal, chefs are so obsessed with the delicate issue of reheating their creations properly that they often train the flight attendants themselves. And with so many different nationalities on board, when it comes to the menu, variety is the spice of life. "The funny thing is our international guests usually want to try Indian food. The Indian ones want to try the international food. Of course we always offer them different choices," said Lieve Vannoppen, European catering manager for the Indian airline Jet Airways. Boris Eloy, director of marketing and innovation at Servair, said that while the technology behind the catering is cutting-edge, the concept of offering air passengers something special dates back to the early days of flight. "In 1933, the barmen of the Ritz and George V Hotels would spend their days off making picnic hampers for Air France passengers," said Eloy. FREE AppDownload
© AFP/File Patrick DomingoUnited Arab Emirates Minister of Energy Suhail al-Mazrouei arrives at the Hotel Bristol on November 25, 2014 prior to the start of the 166th OPEC Meeting in Vienna, AustriaAbu Dhabi (AFP) - "Irresponsible" levels of output by producers from outside the OPEC oil cartel is among the main causes of the slump in prices, the United Arab Emirates energy minister charged Sunday.  "One of the main causes is irresponsible production by some producers from outside the organisation, some of whom are newcomers," Suhail al-Mazrouei told an energy forum in Abu Dhabi. Mazrouei said the sharp drop in prices will impose a "major economic burden" on oil producing countries, insisting nonetheless that OPEC's decision last month to maintain output levels was "correct." "OPEC's decision, which aims to provide the market with time to rebalance, is correct, strategic and useful to the global economy," he said at the forum organised by the Organisation of Arab Petroleum Exporting Countries. The OPEC decision will "lead to stability in oil prices," he said. World prices have fallen almost 50 percent since June, mainly due to a supply glut, the weak global economy and a strong US dollar. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mikhail Klimentyev/RIA Novosti/Kremlin Russia's President Vladimir Putin (R-L) speaks with Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev, Russia's State Duma speaker Sergey Naryshkin and Security Council Secretary Nikolai Patrushev.At a televised cabinet meeting today, Russian prime minister Dmitry Medvedev urged calm, suggesting that the country has enough money to weather the current economic storm.  “All the economic and production goals that you have set yourselves, the country has the currency resources to achieve them,” he said. That's been Vladamir Putin's bet this year. According to Bloomberg, the Russian president asked his advisors at the beginning of the year if the country could withstand the economic shock of invading Ukraine, and they said yes. But a currency reserve shouldn't be measured just by how big it is. As the ruble crisis continues this week, there are actually two key questions: Does Russia have enough reserves? The second question is: are those reserves liquid enough to be used if they need to be? “The level of reserves is a sacred figure for Putin,” former Kremlin advisor Gleb Pavlovsky told Bloomberg. Putin has built them up to their current levels (about $415 billion) since the currency crisis and default of 1998. Now the reserves are rapidly dwindling again. Here's where Russia's reserves stand, according to the Russian Central Bank: RCB The first thing to notice is that Russia has blown through about 20% of its foreign exchange reserves in the last year. The question is how much of the remaining chunk would actually be available if the Russians need to access it immediately. The Economist/Free Exchange via EconbrowserThe Economist took a crack at estimating the liquidity for the country's foreign reserves last week. From the post: "About $170 billion of its assets sit in two big wealth funds, the Reserve Fund (worth about $89 billion) and the National Wealth Fund (worth about $82 billion). But much of what is in these funds could prove inaccessible if called on to meet short-term financing needs." In other words, much of these funds are illiquid. They can't just be withdrawn like how one takes money out of an ATM machine. In this context, Russia hasn't burned through $100 billion out of $500 billion in reserves in the last year, but about $100 billion of $300 billion liquid reserves. According to Bloomberg, "the Bank of Russia will probably spend another $70 billion to defend the ruble" as it continuet to slide. That would leave the country with just over $100 billion left. Meanwhile, Paul Krugman has this to say about what's going on in Russia:  When you have big balance-sheet problems involving foreign-currency debt, an interest-rate hike that tries to discourage capital flight damages the economy, and hence those same balance sheets, from another direction, and it’s common, even standard, for the effort to fail. Most notably, tight-money policies were really really unsuccessful during the Asian financial crisis of 1997-8, on which you can read my take here. FREE AppDownload
© AFP/File Kirill KudryavtsevPeople look at items in a mall in central Moscow on December 15, 2014Moscow (AFP) - Deep recession, skyrocketing prices and a fragile banking system: although the ruble seems to have stabilised after its abysmal drop this past week, Russia still faces the heavy consequences of the turbulence. For most Russians, the week ended with relief: after trading at unbelievable levels of 80 to the dollar and 100 to the euro, the ruble appears to have stabilised at around 60 and 73, respectively. A double whammy of Western sanctions over Ukraine and plunging oil prices finally caught up with the country that depends on energy exports for half of government revenue, and the authorities came out of their apparent stupor only as the ruble's plunge in value had already gained momentum. After the ruble fell by nearly 10 percent on Monday, the central bank moved beyond its limited currency market interventions and in the middle of the night hiked the key interest rate by a tremendous 6.5 percentage points to 17 percent. But that failed to stop the panic, with the ruble dropping by 20 percent on Tuesday -- bank websites crashed as too many users tried to connect, and crowds packed Ikea until 2 am to get a hold of goods before announced price increases took effect. REUTERS/Vasily Maximov/Pool Putin at Moscow's Vnukovo airport in December 6, 2014. President Vladimir Putin tried to put a brave face on the crisis at his annual year-end press conference, saying that recovery is "inevitable", although he acknowledged it could take up to two years to materialise.  He did not announce any economic reforms or specific solutions to the crisis. "The trend of the economy in the next six months is certainly going to be much worse" after this past week, said Chris Weafer, an analyst with Macro Advisory consultancy.  "Confidence is shaken -- in the central bank, in the currency, in the direction of the economy," he told AFP.  "Consumption and investment are going to take a hit because of higher (interest) rates, inflation will be higher because of the weaker currency... the banks are going to turn to the government and shelves will be empty after the New Year." In a sign of the challenges ahead, several suppliers have halted deliveries in a bid to raise prices.  Some stores decided to close their shutters -- Apple stopped sales via its Russian online store, while Ikea suspended sales of kitchens and home appliances and warned that prices on the website "may differ from prices in stores". Opel and Chevrolet are no longer delivering to dealerships. Russian media said that stores selling imported alcohol or clothing including Zara, Topshop and Calvin Klein are also trying to avoid selling at a loss while observers predict that many Western brands will soon disappear from Russia. That trend has begun and inflation -- already close to ten percent -- threatens to reach 15 percent in the coming months.  This will hit the purchasing power of Russians, whose real incomes already declined in the first 11 months of the year compared with 2013. With the ruble having now lost nearly 50 percent of its value against the dollar in the past year imported food and consumer goods are quickly becoming luxuries. Even the central bank estimates the economy could suffer a sharp contraction of nearly 5 percent next year if oil prices stay at current levels. Getty Images / KIRILL KUDRYAVTSEVPedestrians walk past a board listing foreign currency rates against the Russian ruble outside an exchange office in central Moscow on December 16, 2014. "Events have moved quickly and there are now growing signs that the currency crisis is spreading to the banking sector," wrote emerging markets economist at Capital Economics William Jackson. Russia's financial sector is particularly vulnerable, as its state-controlled banking behemoths and a multitude of smaller institutions have been unable to raise funds in the West due to sanctions over Russia's annexing Crimea and support for separatists in Ukraine. The central bank announced measures Tuesday aimed at ensuring their survival by improving access to liquidity and easing accounting standards. On Friday, Russian lawmakers approved a bill on the recapitalisation of banks worth one trillion rubles ($16 billion, 13 billion euros). The finance ministry is also hoping to increase capital in the banking sector by 13 percent and the volume of loans issued by 15 percent. For many Russians, the downward spiral of the ruble brought back memories of the crisis in 1998, when Russia defaulted on its debt.  "People are behaving like it's 1998 but there is no reason for it: Russia was a bankrupt country then and now it's actually financially in a pretty good shape," Weafer said. High oil prices over the past decade have allowed Moscow to pile up substantial hard currency reserves. Even after having spent heavily to support the ruble, the central bank's reserves still stand at around $400 billion.  Public debt is just over 10 percent of GDP. The budget remains balanced and the government has a big rainy day fund to draw upon to sustain social spending. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Paul HackettBritish airways pilotHow does your salary compare to the national average? The UK's Office for National Statistics (ONS) recently published the preliminary results of their Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings for 2014.  For the year ending in April 2014, the annual average wage for full-time employees was £27,200, an increase of 0.7% from the previous year.  The report also contained good news for working women. In 2014, the UK gender pay gap hit its lowest since records began in 1997, narrowing to 9.4%, down from 10% in 2013. To check out this year's top earners, see the list below: 1. Aircraft pilots and flight engineers: £90,420 2. Chief executives and senior officials: £81,521 3. Air traffic controllers: £79,874 4. Medical practitioners: £71,141 5. Marketing and sales directors: £70,742 6. Information technology and telecommunications directors: £64,511 7. Financial managers and directors: £61,108 8. Senior police officers: £57,896 9. Financial institution managers and directors: £53,621 10. Senior professionals of educational establishments: £50,367
Thomson ReutersNewly appointed Monte dei Paschi bank chairman Alessandro Profumo talks during a Reuters interview in SienaVIENNA (Reuters) - Italian lender Monte dei Paschi di Siena expects to complete its planned capital increase by July and can use divestments to help plug a hole in its balance sheet, Chairman Alessandro Profumo told an Austrian newspaper. Monte Paschi needs to shore up its capital base following this year's euro zone health check of European banks. It plans a cash call of up to 2.5 billion euros ($3.06 billion) next year. Asked by Der Standard in an interview in its weekend edition what the plan was to fill the gap, he said this had not been officially announced but added: "It consists of the capital increase but also the sale of assets." A consortium comprised of UBS, Citibank, Mediobanca, Goldman Sachs and other foreign institutions is getting the standard 3 percent fee for handling the capital increase, he said, adding it "should be completed by July 2015 at the latest". Profumo said the bank was not seeking to extend to 2017 the repayment of the last 1 billion euros of state aid it has yet to pay back. He said this would happen after the capital increase. Asked about talk a Chinese investor was ready to buy into Monte dei Paschi, he said: "If there is something to report, we will do that. We are not currently conducting any negotiations." He said bad loans would weigh on the bank again next year. "The volume of non-performing loans is still quite high, the provisions for these as well. Since we are the bank of small and mid-sized companies in Italy, which are suffering most from the crisis, non-performing loans will hit us also in 2015," he said. ($1 = 0.8179 euros)  (Reporting by Michael Shields; editing by Jason Neely) FREE AppDownload
