AP Photo/New York District Attorney HandoutA screenshot from the video of the notorious party.Former Tyco CEO Dennis Kozlowski is finally getting out of prison this week, so we thought we'd take a look at what landed him there in the first place eight years ago. Kozlowski and his right-hand man were convicted in 2005 of stealing $150 million from Tyco and illicitly making $430 million more by artificially inflating the value of company stock. Kozlowski, the son of a Newark, N.J. police officer, flaunted his wealth and enjoyed a lavish lifestyle that prosecutors said was improperly funded by the company he worked for. The most glaring example of this extravagance was a $2 million week-long birthday party for his wife, Karen, which became known as "The Tyco Roman Orgy." Tyco picked up half the bill for the Roman-Empire-themed 40th birthday party on the island of Sardinia, attracting the attention of federal prosecutors in Manhattan, The Wall Street Journal reported in 2002. Here are images from a home movie of the party that a jury eventually saw: AP Photo/New York District Attorney HandoutAnother screen grab from a video of the party  AP Photo/New York District Attorney HandoutDennis Kozlowski smiling at the party that would be part of his downfall. The event was almost comically over the top. Tyco staffer Beth Pacitti sent party planners a memo with very specific expectations for the party at the Hotel Cala di Volpe Resort, which included a large replica of Michelangelo's David. Here's an excerpt from the memo, courtesy of the Journal: Guests arrive at the club starting at 7:15 p.m. ... Two gladiators are standing next to the door, one opens the door, the other helps the guests. We have a lion or horse with a chariot for the shock value. ... The guests come into the pool area, the band is playing, they are dressed in elegant chic. Big ice sculpture of David, lots of shellfish and caviar at his feet. A waiter is pouring Stoli vodka into [the statue's] back so it comes out his penis into a crystal glass. Waiters are passing cocktails in chalices. They are dressed in linen togas with fig wreath on head. A full bar with fabulous linens. ... We have rented fig trees with tiny lights everywhere to fill some space. 8:30 the waiters instruct that dinner is served. We all walk up to the loggia. The tables are all family style with the main table in front. The tables have incredible linens with chalices as wine glasses. The jury that saw footage from this party actually didn't end up convicting Kozwolski; the judge declared a mistrial after a juror apparently gunning for the former CEO's acquittal gave an "okay" sign to the defense. During the second trial, prosecutors focused less on Kozwolski's opulent lifestyle and the notorious toga party and spent more time talking about accounting issues, The Times reported. But as the Journal noted, the ex-CEO's spending habits and big party attracted the attention of prosecutors, so it's fair to blame at least some of his downfall on the "Roman Orgy." Of course, Kozlowski probably won't be throwing $2 million toga parties now that he's getting out of prison. He and former Tyco CFO Mark Swartz were ordered to pay $134 million back to Tyco, and Kozlowski was ordered to pay a $70 million fine. Despite his business qualifications, Kozlowski will probably have a hard time finding work that will fund a fancy lifestyle post-prison. FREE AppDownload
ESCALON, Calif. (AP) — The soaring value of California's nut crops is attracting a new breed of thieves who have been making off with the pricey commodities by the truckload, recalling images of cattle rustlers of bygone days. This harvest season in the Central Valley, thieves cut through a fence and hauled off $400,000 in walnuts. Another $100,000 in almonds was stolen by a driver with a fake license. And $100,000 in pistachios was taken by a big rig driver who left a farm without filling out any paperwork. Investigators suspect low-level organized crime may have a hand in cases, while some pilfered nuts are ending up in Los Angeles for resale at farmers markets or disappear into the black market. Domestic demand for specialty foods and an expanding Asian market for them have prompted a nut orchard boom in the state's agricultural heartland. Such heists have become so common that an industry taskforce recently formed to devise ways to thwart thieves. "The Wild West is alive and well in certain aspects," said Danielle Oliver of the California Farm Bureau. "There's always someone out there trying to make a quick dollar on somebody else's hard work." Amid the nut boom, farmers have torn out vineyards and other crops to plant nut trees to keep up with demand. Real estate firms, retirement funds and insurance companies have taken note by adding almonds, walnut and pistachio land to diversify their portfolios. As the nation's top nut producer, the state grows more almonds and pistachios than any other country. Only China produces more walnuts, which have nearly tripled in price in the last five years to about $2 a pound, according to the California Walnut Board. The U.S. Department of Agriculture reported that through 2012 the state's almond crop was valued at $5 billion per year, pistachios were over $1 billion and walnuts were over $1.5 billion. "Right now, everybody wants to be a nut grower because it's kind of like the gold rush of the 1850s," said Ripon almond farmer Kevin Fondse of Fondse Brothers Inc. "Everybody wants the gold." That frenzy has spawned crime. In a brazen heist in October, thieves made off with 140,000 pounds of processed walnuts from GoldRiver Orchards. The thief cut through wooden fence posts in the dead of night, hooked up a truck to three gondola trailers brimming with nuts and drove off. In another incident, unemployed trucker Francisco Javier Lopez Martinez told investigators he couldn't pass up a job paying $180, despite his suspicions. He was hired in October by a man who gave him a fraudulent driver's license and told him to pick up 43,000 pounds of almonds at Sunnygem, a processing plant. A transportation broker tipped sheriff's deputies that something seemed amiss. They arrested Martinez, who told them he was supposed to drive the load to a specified address in Los Angeles, park it and walk away. The trucking firm that hired him turned out to be a fake. The company's logo was merely taped onto the side of the truck, and it had stolen license plates. Martinez pleaded guilty in December to commercial burglary and possession of fake identification. He was sentenced to 350 days in jail and three years of probation. Authorities say this type of industrial identity theft, known as a "fictitious pickup," is becoming more sophisticated. It often involves con artists providing fabricated insurance documents and U.S. Department of Transportation numbers for trucks. The driver presents the paperwork to the unsuspecting nut processor. A walnut farmer suspected he had fallen victim to such a crime in March after a $250,000 load left his yard, so he called Detectives Pat McNelis and Matt Calkins at the Butte County sheriff's department. The detectives traced phone records to Los Angeles, where police there served search warrants and seized evidence. The investigation continues, detectives said. "In our case, there's multiple levels of people that were involved in a complex crime," Calkins said. "This is an organized criminal enterprise. It's not one or two people acting on their own." The California Highway Patrol investigates cargo thefts, but doesn't tally nut thefts separately. The CHP hasn't established a link between such thefts and any specific criminal organization, spokeswoman Erin Komatsubara said. Growers and nut processors say they have been so hard hit in the past year that a coalition of nut associations formed a taskforce in October to seek the advice of law enforcement and to create an eight-step checklist for growers and nut processors. The list includes fingerprinting drivers, taking their photos and calling the broker to confirm that the paperwork is legitimate. Such common-sense steps can save hundreds of thousands of dollars in vanishing cargo, said Carl Eidsath, a task force member representing the California Walnut Board. Too often, Eidsath said, the theft isn't detected until it's too late. "The only reason they knew something wasn't right was when the load didn't show up at the customer," he said. "That's days and days later." Taking additional safeguards, almond grower Michael Fondse, the fourth generation at Fondse Brothers Inc. behind his father, Kevin Fondse, said he planted a row of redwood trees along the road to create a visual barrier, hiding his orchards from would-be thieves, and he installed cameras at the processing plant. "We've installed a lot of lights," he said. "That's the No. 1 deterrent, keeping everything bright." Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
In the world of electric cars, luxury is defined by Tesla, with new competition coming from Cadillac (the ELR) and BMW (the i8). But those cars could soon be eclipsed by top tier offerings from Bentley and Rolls-Royce.  In interviews with Business Insider, executives from both brands said they are seriously considering a plug-in hybrid car. Plug-in hybrid electric vehicles (PHEVs) combine the ability to run on electricity stored in a battery with an internal combustion engine. They usually offer an EV mode range of under 40 miles, with the capability to drive over 200 more miles on traditional gas power. With high fuel prices and governments (especially in the U.S. and Europe) cracking down on gas-guzzling cars, automakers everywhere are working to crank up their miles per gallon numbers. There are more hybrid, pure battery electric, and diesel vehicles on the market than ever before. They're not good options for the two ultra-luxury players, however. Diesel offers great fuel economy. It's widely used in the Europe, and growing in popularity in the U.S. But it's not used for passengers cars in China or the Middle East, key regions for both brands. And because each sells so few cars, there's no sense in creating totally different products for each market.  For Chinese customers, "diesel is for trucks, end of story," Bentley Sales and Marketing Director Kevin Rose said. "It would be a brave person who comes along with a luxury diesel car for China." Torsten Müller-Ötvös, the CEO of Rolls-Royce, concurred. "It wouldn't make sense to introduce a diesel," he said.  A purely electric car, Müller-Ötvös explained, wouldn't work either: Rolls-Royce makes heavy cars; that's part of its luxury feel. Same goes for Bentley. With the current state of battery technology, that means range and power would dramatically reduced. Rolls-Royce did built an electricity-powered Phantom and had customers test it. Many were "ambivalent," worried about slow charging times and limited range. Compounding the problem is that most of its customers live outside city centers, where short drive times make EVs useful. But a PHEV, which combines the fuel savings and quiet feel of an electric car with the practicality of a gas-powered one, is a workable solution. "For me, the direction of plug-in hybrids is probably more the direction to go with Rolls-Royce motor cars," Müller-Ötvös said.  Bentley is headed in the same direction. "Plug-in hybrids could be an especially good technology for us," Rose said. Research shows that customers would be interested, and the key is making it easy to use, "which is what we're working on." The luxury brand is coming out with an SUV — "the first genuine luxury SUV" — in 2015, and it's a likely candidate for a plug-in hybrid system after its launch, Rose said. FREE AppDownload
WASHINGTON (AP) — China and Japan are engaged in a war of words that is lighting up editorial pages around the world as Beijing takes aim at a recent visit by Japan's leader to a controversial war shrine and Tokyo answers back. Japan's ambassador to the U.S. fired the latest salvo Friday, accusing China of a global propaganda campaign that portrays Prime Minister Shinzo Abe as glorifying Japan's militaristic past. "It is not Japan that most of Asia and the international community worry about; it is China," Ambassador Kenichiro Sasae wrote in The Washington Post. The dueling opinion pieces, appearing in a growing number of newspapers around the world, come as both nations have been criticized for recent actions: China's declaration of an air defense zone over a disputed area of the East China Sea and the Japanese prime minister's visit to Yasukuni, where convicted World War II war criminals are among the many enshrined. Chinese diplomats have been especially blunt. Ambassadors have accused Abe of "a gross trampling upon world peace and human conscience" on the Pacific island of Vanuatu, having "put the international community on high alert" in Australia and doing something akin to "laying a wreath at Hitler's bunker" in Madagascar. The most headlining-grabbing exchange to date was in Britain's Daily Telegraph, where the ambassadors of China and Japan compared each other's nations, in some shape or form, to the evil Lord Voldemort of the Harry Potter books. Beyond trying to win over world opinion, the pieces are also an attempt to placate nationalist opinion at home. The antipathy between Japan and China is rooted in Japan's occupation of parts of China, often brutally, in the first half of the 20th century. But ties have been especially strained since Tokyo in 2012 nationalized some unoccupied islands it administers in the East China Sea that are also claimed by Beijing. That touched off nationalist sentiments in China, which viewed the step as a change in the status quo and stepped up military patrols. For its part, Japan refuses to acknowledge that's there's a territorial dispute. The two nations' security forces have steered clear of outright confrontation around the islands, known as Senkaku by Japan and Diayou by China, so war appears a distant possibility. It would be ruinous to both their economies, which are deeply interconnected. But the propaganda battle is a serious one. According to Japanese officials, China has posted articles in nearly 40 countries, and Japan has so far responded in a dozen of them, with more planned. China began the op-ed offensive days after Abe's Dec. 26 visit to the Yasukuni shrine, the first by a Japanese prime minister since 2006. The visit angered China and the two Koreas, where occupying Japanese forces committed atrocities before and during World War II. The visit also drew a rare expression of disapproval by the U.S. of its Japanese ally. China's tough response underscored how sensitive its people are about Japan's past abuses and current Japanese attitudes. But Jim Schoff, a senior associate for the Asia program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in Washington, said China was also capitalizing on an opportunity provided by Abe's visit to put Japan on the defensive. China faced a torrent of international criticism when it declared in November an air defense identification zone over the disputed area of the East China Sea, including the islands administered by Japan. China's action deepened concern over its highhanded approach to pushing its territorial claims with its neighbors and was sharply criticized by Washington. Last week, China's ambassador to the U.S., Cui Tiankai, took to the pages of The Washington Post to argue his case in an influential publication in a capital that has a high stake in the standoff between the Asian rivals. America's treaty alliance with Japan means it could be drawn into a conflict. Cui accused Abe of denying wartime atrocities and linked his homage at Yasukuni to his government's efforts to loosen the constitutional constraints to reform Japan's military and project power overseas. Sasae upped the ante Friday. He criticized "China's unparalleled military buildup," noting its growth in military spending far exceeds Japan's. He also said China's control on information and debate at home means "Chinese people cannot see the truth that people throughout the world see." That's likely to go down badly in Beijing. But while the prospects for improving relations in the short term appear dim, Schoff said: "Better to escalate on the pages of newspapers than in other ways." Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
Paramount Pictures My wife, Carlin, and I saw the movie The Wolf of Wall Street last night. We both enjoyed it, though at three hours it reflected the theme of the movie, “too much is never enough.” The movie is a dark comedy directed by Martin Scorsese, based on Jordan Belfort‘s memoir of the same name. The film stars Leonardo DiCaprio as Belfort, a New York stockbroker who runs a firm that engages in securities fraud and corruption on Wall Street in the 1990s. The film opens in 1987, as Jordan Belfort becomes a stockbroker at an established Wall Street firm. His boss, Mark Hanna (Matthew McConaughey), advises him to adopt a lifestyle of sex and cocaine in order to succeed. There’s a wonderful scene of manly bonding between the older mentor Mark Hanna and the younger novice, Belfort, with Hanna humming a tune of joyful engagement and triumph while he pounds his chest along with the music. Beyond being a fun movie, there are some lessons we can learn that can be important in our lives. 1. Sex matters. When we’re talking about males and females (whether they are male and female monkeys, zebras, or human beings) sex matters. There’s a lot of sex in the movie, most of it raw, addictive, and not very pretty. But there is a primal vitality to desire for sex and more sex. But sex matters in another way. Most of the young stock brokers, and hence the players, in this movie are males. In the “fun and games” that play out repeatedly these are clearly male fun and games. We all know that males and females are different (as well as similar in many ways), but the difference goes right down to our DNA. According to David Page, M.D., one of the world’s leading experts on male and female genetic differences and professor of biology at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT): “There are 10 trillion cells in human body and every one of them is sex specific. We need to build a better tool kit that is XX and XY informed rather than our current gender neutral stance. We need a tool kit that recognizes the fundamental difference on a cellular, organ, system, and person level between XY and XX.” In Marianne Legato’s book, Eve’s Rib: The New Science of Gender-Specific Medicine, she says, “Everywhere we look, the two sexes are startlingly and unexpectedly different not only in their internal function but in the way they experience illness.” In all aspects of our lives, it’s good to ask, “what does sex have to do with it?” 2. Sex can be as addicting as cocaine. In the movie it’s clear that in their quest for power, pleasure, and plenty, the guys become addicted to drugs. They get hooked on alcohol, cocaine, and Quaaludes. But sex also becomes addictive as they party with prostitutes and have sex wherever and whenever possible. In my book, Looking for Love in All the Wrong Places: Overcoming Romantic and Sexual Addictions, I say “When our desire for ‘more sex’ interferes with our family or professional lives, we are looking for love in all the wrong places.” 3. Many of us settle for sex when we’re really looking for love. All the guys in the film are driven. They’re clearly looking for love, but they’re looking in all the wrong places. Their relationships are a mess. They have trouble relating to women with warmth and intimacy. And they end up alone, but still hoping for the next big score that will make them feel like real men. In my younger years, like many of these guys, I was driven to try and mate with as many young, attractive females as possible. From a biological perspective mating with as many females as possible fulfills our genetic propensity to make more babies. This is part of being XY (male) creatures. But we all want love and more sex won’t get us there. 4. There is a strong drive to be part of a male tribe. One of the most compelling aspects of the movie was the passion, pride, and solidarity that the brokers had as they worked together to make more money. DeCaprio was an inspiring leader who people wanted to follow. The feeling of being “one of the gang” and being part of something bigger than ourselves, is one we all share. In his book, Moral Tribes: Emotion, Reason, and the Gap Between Us and Them, Joshua Green describes the strong attraction we have to being part of a tribe and working out ways that we can become successful as individuals and also support the success of the tribe as a whole. In modern society we are often successful at being able to deal with the inherent dilemma between taking care of myself (me first) and taking care of my tribe (we first). We learn that being for myself-only isn’t the best way to be successful. 5. The same forces that bring us together within a tribe often pit us against other tribes. There is a strong sense of camaraderie that the guys have in working together as a team—doing deals, making money, having fun. But as they turn their attention outwards they see other groups as suckers to be used. They have little care or compassion for the people who make it possible for them to become rich. As DiCaprio says, “Our job is to take their money and transfer it to our pockets.” Joshua Green describes the problem this way: “For humans there is always a selfishness at the group level. Humans nearly always put Us ahead of Them.” Thus, it’s easy for the tribe of Stratton Oakmont (DiCaprio’s mythic trading firm) to take advantage of all those who aren’t part of their in-group. 6. The way we treat “them” is the way we ultimately treat ourselves. There’s an old saying: When we point our finger at others, three fingers are pointed back at ourselves. Ultimately the deceit and dishonesty that are directed at the people they swindle comes back to destroy their lives. Everyone’s problems get worse as they begin to suffer from erectile dysfunction, anger and rage,depression, and the destruction of their marriages. Truly, what goes around, comes around. The Wolf of Wall Street may be just a movie, but I suggest there is a little bit of “the wolf” in each of us. I long for that passion and that commitment to succeed at all cost. I want the joy of being part of the tribe, leading others into battle. I too can often get caught up in the desire for more, bigger, better, younger, prettier. What part of the wolf lives in you? Like The Good Men Project on Facebook FREE AppDownload
Margot Robbie is telling a story about the time she had to get from Croatia to New York in less than 48 hours for a last-minute audition with Will Smith. The 23-year-old Australian actress was backpacking around Europe when she got the call. The previous day, she had been cave-diving in the Adriatic Sea, and had spent the night at a beach club, Carpe Diem, on the island of Hvar. As she walked back to her hostel at around 6am, barefoot and wet from an early-morning swim, her agent rang and told her to get to the port and take the first catamaran to the mainland. She had a seat on a flight from Split to JFK with a six-hour stopover in Paris: if she made the boat, she would make the plane, and would be in New York with a couple of hours to spare. Robbie describes the journey with wide eyes and big gestures, teasing out the seat-of-her-pants lunacy of it. She changed into her pajamas for the flight, she says, only for the airline to lose her luggage, so she made a pit-stop at Topshop on Broadway, frantically grabbing outfits off the rails and getting changed in the taxi as it screeched towards the unmissable meeting. After a run of close shaves and near misses, her story’s ending almost feels anticlimactic. “Then I went to the audition and I got the part,” she says. The release of the Will Smith film is still some way off; for now, she’s talking about the Leonardo DiCaprio and Martin Scorsese one. In The Wolf of Wall Street, Robbie stars as Naomi Lapaglia, the trophy wife of DiCaprio’s monstrous stock-market fraudster, Jordan Belfort . Robbie is a graduate of Neighbours, and worked on the soap opera for two-and-a-half years before moving to Hollywood with a very specific game plan. The Wolf of Wall Street is its successful outcome – or, at least, the start of it. I meet her in a suite in Claridge’s, in central London: she is sitting on the opposite side of a glass coffee table, in a knee-length navy blue power-dress with padded shoulders, dressed for business. She describes working on the film as “a sink-or-swim scenario”, not unlike (and this is how we get on to the Croatia story) travelling alone in a foreign country. “It’s like if you’re stuck in a place you don’t know, and you’ve got no money, you just have to figure it out,” she explains. “If you don’t, you’re going to get robbed and will have to sleep on the street.” It was all she could do, she says, to keep up. “Once you’re on set, nobody is going to turn around and say, ‘Oh, do you need help?’ They won’t wait for you and they don’t need you. If you don’t put yourself in the scene, you won’t be in the scene. And that pressure brought my acting to a level it had never been at before.” Pressure, you suspect, is something that Robbie thrives on: her role in The Wolf of Wall Street is a tough one, especially for a young actress at the start of her career. She admits that the nude scenes, in particular, gave her pause before accepting the role. “Although my manager told me, ‘If there’s ever going to be a time for nudity, this is the director you do it with,’” she says. In the end, she felt the opportunity was too good to pass on. And while it’s a well-worn line, the sex in The Wolf of Wall Street, like the violence and drug-taking, does feel artistically justified – not despite the glamorous way in which it’s portrayed, but because of it. “If Marty had made Jordan’s lifestyle look horrible from the beginning, then you’d be like, ‘Well, why’s he doing it?’” asks Robbie, not unreasonably. “I think nudity for the sake of nudity is shameful,” she continues. “If they’ve put it in just so that a girl gets her top off, then that’s disgusting. And you can always tell. “But I also think it’s disgusting when someone would have got naked in real life, in the film they conveniently leave their bra on, or hold up the bed sheet. Seeing someone being choreographed into being covered up irritates me just as much. “The whole point of Naomi is that her body is her only form of currency in this world. So when Marty was trying to help me out, and said in the scene where she seduces Jordan perhaps I could have a robe on, I said she wouldn’t. She has to be naked. She’s laying her cards on the table.” It’s easy to wonder if there’s an element of that attitude in Robbie’s approach to her own career. Shortly after the Croatia anecdote, she tells another story, very different in tone. She used her time on Neighbours, she explains, to hothouse herself, taking classes and making contacts in every spare moment she wasn’t on set in Melbourne. That way, when her big chance came along – perhaps the only big chance – she would be ready. Dialogue coaching, she says, was a priority. Her American accent had to be flawless. (It is.) She also sought out an Australian agent with good connections in Los Angeles. She flew there in January 2011 for what’s known in the industry as pilot season: two months of intensive auditions when the major television networks cast their up-and-coming projects. “I spent my time on Neighbours getting my ducks lined up,” she says. “Because in America they need to see you at the right time. “It has to be like: ‘Who is she? Great. Can we see her? Yes, here she is. Her accent? Nothing to complain about. Her acting? Good.’ If they can’t see you, they forget you, and if they’ve seen you before, you’re old news.” The planning paid off. Then, when things came temporarily unstuck, it paid off again. In the spring of 2011, Robbie won a central role on the ABC drama Pan Am. The show was cancelled the following May, after one season – and that same month, she sent an audition tape to Martin Scorsese. A month later, she shot a small role in the Richard Curtis romantic comedy About Time, in Cornwall. Two months after that, she was in New York, on the set of The Wolf of Wall Street. “I’ve peaked way too early!” she laughs. “Where do you go from there?” Backpacking in Croatia and a meeting with Will Smith is the answer, clearly. And from there? Well, we shall see.  This article originally appeared at The Daily Telegraph .  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesStudio owner and porn film director Lee Roy Myers talks about moving his business to Las Vegas during an interview on a classroom set at his studio, Mission Control Studios, Wednesday, Jan. 15, 2014, in Las Vegas. With increasing costs of doing business and a Los Angeles law requiring male actors to wear condoms, Myers moved his studio to Las Vegas last Spring and is part of the new boom in X-rated production in Sin City.LAS VEGAS (AP) — Lee Roy Myers has everything you'd expect to find in the nation's porn capital in Southern California: sets of a classroom, hospital room, locker room and a bedroom, as well as a list of porn stars waiting to perform. But his plywood universe is not in the San Fernando Valley. It's a few paces away from the glittery casinos of the Las Vegas Strip. "Las Vegas is a fresh town, and it's where people need the business," said Myers, whose new studio is part of a boom in X-rated production in Sin City sparked by a Los Angeles law requiring male actors to wear condoms. The rule and potential opportunities in Nevada were the talk of the Adult Entertainment Expo this week. The annual sex industry trade show culminates Saturday with an awards ceremony for adult films. "It's not really an option to change the way we make our movies, and moving production isn't that hard," said porn purveyor Jules Jordan, who hid out behind nearly naked models at his booth. The voter-approved Los Angeles regulation survived a constitutional challenge, but other lawsuits are ongoing, and the industry is still waiting for the first big prophylactic bust. The number of permits requested to make porn films in Los Angeles County has declined by an estimated 95 percent since the law took effect, according to Film LA, a private nonprofit that issues the licenses. The number of applications fell from about 480 in 2012 to just 24 through the first nine months of 2013. For Myers, who co-owns Mission Control studios and also directs web films, the condom police are just the start of his troubles with Los Angeles. The region had also gotten too expensive for him. With DVD sales continuing to plummet, the bounce provided by the mommy-porn series "Fifty Shades of Grey" wearing off, and no solid business model in sight, producers in this notoriously low-budget industry are looking for new ways to cut costs. While Los Angeles requires health checks and charges hundreds of dollars for location permits, Clark County, where Las Vegas is located, does not require health permits and gives out location licenses for a nominal fee. The warehouses are cheaper, and it's also more affordable to rent out mansions and put actors up in hotels. The hardest part, Myers said, is making sure the stars leave at the end of the shoot. Myers has also found that Las Vegas, a town already suffused with commercialized sex, is less squeamish about his line of work. "They're used to it here because they already kind of have it," he said, sitting among rows of desks in his studio's classroom set. "Figuring out how to make these things more cheaply won't include shooting in Los Angeles." Before he moved in, the building was just another empty warehouse on blighted Industrial Road behind the town's tourist corridor. Local officials appear content with the arrangement and have no plans to pass additional rules. "It's a legalized industry and properly regulated, so I don't see it as a problem," said Clark County Commissioner Chris Giunchigliani. "I think the city and the county will benefit from any expansion of the film industry. It's economic diversification." Las Vegas is home to some major porn players, including Brazzers, Bait &amp; Tackle, Corbin Fisher, VCX Ltd. and newcomer Bluebird Film. Several producers with top porn purveyor Evil Angel are talking about moving to Las Vegas, according to owner John Stagliano, and enough porn actors have settled down in the area to supply all the extras a film could need, if not all the stars. Derek Hay, owner of adult talent agency LA Direct Models, opened an office here last fall. He estimates that 20 percent of the industry will have moved to Las Vegas by the end of the year. Some contrarians believe the boom will eventually lead Clark County to adopt the same regulations that are scaring the industry in Los Angeles. This September, the group that championed the 2012 condom law started a similar campaign in Florida. For now, concerns about an eventual condom showdown in the desert are not stopping producers from making investments. Myers has several producers coming through his studio this week. After that, he will turn his attention to repurposing the cave set featured in a high fantasy spoof "Game of Bones" for another pornographic parody, based on The Hobbit. The star of both films, James Deen, a millennial porn icon who acted alongside Lindsay Lohan in "The Canyons," said moving the industry to Las Vegas is just a Band-Aid. "The issue with running to Vegas is it doesn't actually fix anything," he said, taking refuge near a stairwell at the convention hall to avoid interruption by a constant stream of fans. "We should explain to the people who put that law in place why it's unnecessary, and appeal it the same way any community would appeal any asinine law." ___ Hannah Dreier can be reached at http://twitter.com/hannahdreier Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from St. Louis Fed)The Federal Reserve has kept its benchmark interest rate pinned near zero for more than five years in an attempt to repair the damages to the labor market caused by the recession. Over the past two years, the unemployment rate has fallen faster than both Wall Street's and the Fed's own forecasts, and the latest 6.7% reading is hinting that the time for policy normalization is near. The concurrent decline in labor force participation, however, has prompted many assertions that unemployment is falling "for the wrong reasons" — i.e., the unemployment rate is falling because unemployed Americans who can't find work are becoming discouraged and dropping out of the labor force. This idea has had profound implications for Fed policy. Fed officials have sought to de-emphasize the decline in the headline unemployment rate — previously considered a key input to policy decision — suggesting it does not reflect the true health of the labor market. This orientation toward the labor market is being used as a justification inside the Fed for continued extraordinary monetary stimulus.  Yet contrary to this popular narrative, the data suggest that the vast majority of the decline in labor force participation in recent years can be accounted for by the retirement of the "baby boomer" generation of American workers. Consider the findings of a recent study by Shigeru Fujita, a senior economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, titled "On the Causes of Declines in the Labor Force Participation Rate." Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, BLSReasons for leaving the labor force can be broken down into three categories: retirement, disability, and "other." The "other" category is made up partly of discouraged workers. The chart illustrates that in recent years, retirement has been the primary driver of the decline in labor force participation.Fujita demonstrates that "discouraged workers" only made up about a quarter of those leaving the labor force between 2007 and 2011, while "the decline in the participation rate since the first quarter of 2012 is entirely accounted for by increases in nonparticipation due to retirement." If this is in fact the case, the current headline 6.7% unemployment rate may indeed reflect the true health of the labor market, the inflation the Fed is trying so hard to stoke may be a lot closer at hand than it expects, and the central bank risks falling behind the curve with regard to policy. The counterargument is that a wave of discouraged workers will re-enter the labor force as the job market improves, sending the labor force participation rate — and therefore, the unemployment rate — higher again. Such developments would perhaps constitute a proper justification for continued zero-interest rate monetary policy, in line with the Fed's projections, which imply no rate hikes for nearly two more years. "Should we really be concerned about the Fed being 'behind the curve' given that a rebound in participation should be forthcoming with a rebound in the economy?" asks Drew Matus, deputy chief U.S. economist at UBS, in a note to clients. Matus implies that the answer is yes. "Although we believe that there could be a modest cyclical rise in participation as the economy improves, we believe the likely scale of the increase will not significantly alter the basic equation," he says. "Payroll growth averaging 200,000 per month should continue to pull down the unemployment rate under all but the most aggressive labor force expansion estimates." All of this suggests that labor market conditions are tighter than the popular narrative about the "accuracy" of the headline unemployment rate would have you believe. If that is the case, the inflation that has thus far been elusive in this economic recovery may be closer than the consensus expects, especially if the unemployment rate continues to plummet toward the Fed's estimated range of the unemployment rate in the long run between 5.2% and 6.0%. The Fed should heed the message being transmitted by the headline unemployment rate if it wants to avoid the need for abrupt policy adjustments as the economy continues to improve. FREE AppDownload
Tomas Bravo/ReutersNEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. prosecutors in Manhattan are sitting on a multimillion-dollar bitcoin gold mine. And it could get much bigger. Federal authorities hauled in 29,655 units of the digital currency - worth $27 million at current exchange rates - through an official forfeiture by Bitcoin this week. The bitcoins had belonged to Silk Road, an anonymous online black market that authorities say was a conduit for purchases of drugs and computer hacking services - even a place where assassins may have advertised. It was shuttered after an FBI raid in September, when agents took control of its server and arrested the man they say was its founder in San Francisco. No one stepped forward to claim these bitcoins, which were found in electronic "wallets" used to store the digital currency. An additional 144,336 bitcoins, worth more than $128 million today, were also discovered, but the government's claim on them is being disputed by Ross William Ulbricht, 29, who U.S. authorities say was the founder and main operator of Silk Road. They had been stashed on his laptop. It all puts authorities in an unusual position, given their concerns about the way in which bitcoins and other digital currencies are used by criminals to circumvent regulations intended to prevent money laundering. By trading in bitcoins, the government could give the currency some legitimacy. Bitcoin is essentially software code that defines units of value, which users can move back and forth among themselves. Unlike other virtual money transmitters, its value isn't pegged to a hard currency like the dollar or the euro; it is determined by the demand for bitcoins. The U.S. Marshals Service, which is in charge of liquidating such seized assets, will have to decide whether to sell the units on a Bitcoin exchange or find a private buyer, perhaps through an auction. A spokeswoman for Preet Bharara, the U.S. Attorney for New York's Southern District, said Friday that the government is still trying to decide what to do with the forfeited bitcoins. The timing of any sale could make a big difference in the amount the government could realize. Bitcoin's value has fluctuated wildly over the past six months. When Silk Road was seized, the bitcoins found on the server were worth $3.6 million, far below their current $27 million value. Friday's exchange rate was about $900 per bitcoin, according to the Tokyo-based Bitcoin exchange MtGox. It is unclear whether a large sale of bitcoins by the government could drive down the price. Friday's volume on MtGox, which is the largest Bitcoin exchange, was 8,656 units. "If it's worth $27 million now, is that a high part of the market? A low part of the market? That's one of the decisions they're going to have to make," said Louis Rulli, a professor at the University of Pennsylvania Law School. "It would seem to me that they would probably convert those bitcoins into cash relatively quickly." Barry Silbert, the founder of one of the first investment funds that lets retail investors gain exposure to Bitcoin, declined to offer an opinion on what the government should do with its stash or how a sale would affect the market. Marco Santori, a lobbyist for the Bitcoin Foundation, which is Bitcoin's official trade group, said the group did not have an official position on the matter. 'THIS WON'T BE DIFFICULT' Most goods seized by U.S. authorities end up in the hands of the U.S. Marshals, where they are auctioned or, at times, repurposed for government use. But the Marshals aren't just practiced at unloading forfeited SUVs or houses; they also deal with complex financial instruments, foreign companies and other kinds of obscure assets forfeited by criminals. "While Bitcoin is a somewhat new form of asset, it's not unusual for them to have to find out how to liquidate a new asset," said Jeffrey Alberts, a partner at Pryor Cashman and a former federal prosecutor in Manhattan. "This won't be difficult for them, whether they do it through an exchange or find a buyer who wants to buy it directly from them." Ulbricht was arrested October 1 in a San Francisco public library and charged by prosecutors in New York with one count each of money laundering, computer hacking and drug trafficking. He is being held at a federal detention center in New York without bail. He has not entered a formal plea but has maintained his innocence through statements by his lawyer. Prosecutors last week asked a judge to grant them a default judgment in the civil forfeiture case they filed after the raid on Silk Road and Ulbricht's arrest claiming Silk Road's assets. U.S. District Judge J. Paul Oetken signed an order to that effect on Wednesday, giving the government control of the 29,655 Bitcoins from Silk Road's server but not of the bitcoins - the larger sum - discovered on Ulbricht's computer. Those are still in dispute. The proceeds from any sale would be turned over to an asset forfeiture fund from which the U.S. Justice Department can draw for law enforcement activities. If any money were to come back to prosecutors' budgets, it would be distributed evenly among U.S. attorneys' offices, a policy meant to prevent individual offices from unduly seizing assets to pad their budgets. (Reporting By Emily Flitter; Editing by Martin Howell and Douglas Royalty) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/StringerA salesperson (R) talks to a customer behind models of a residential compound at a real estate exhibition in Wuxi, Jiangsu province May 18, 2013. BEIJING (Reuters) - China's home prices continued to surge in December, though the pace of gains overall did not exceed the previous month's and rises eased in some major cities, suggesting that government tightening measures may be starting to bite. Home prices in many Chinese cities have continued to set records in the past year despite a four-year long government campaign to cool the market, adding to the threat of a price bubble and forcing some local governments into a fresh round of curbs in November. Average new home prices in 70 major Chinese cities climbed 0.4 percent in December on the month, easing from November's 0.5 percent and the fourth straight slowdown since August's 0.8 percent gain, according to Reuters calculations from data released by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) on Saturday. "The slower home price gains in December showed recent curbs unveiled by local governments in tier-1 and some tier-2 cities have started to stabilize market expectations gradually," said Liu Jianwei, a senior statistician at NBS, in a statement accompanying the data. Under pressure to rein in a red-hot housing market, many local governments have rolled out targeted measures to cool fast-rising property prices, including raising minimum down payments for second homes and promising to supply more land for building residential properties. Prices in the capital Beijing rose 16 percent in December from a year ago, easing slightly from November's year-on-year increase of 16.3 percent, and the second month of slowing gains after a record jump in October. In the southern cities of Guangzhou and Shenzhen, gains eased to 20.1 percent and 19.9 percent respectively from 20.7 percent and 20.6 percent in November, their first slowdown this year. STILL HIGH, NO EASING OF CURBS Still, the government measures are yet to significantly curb buyer appetite and property inflation. The NBS data showed nationwide new home prices rose 9.9 percent in December from a year ago, the 12th consecutive annual rise and the same as the previous month's record gain. The relentless rise of home prices suggests Beijing won't let up on its tightening measures anytime soon. China's housing minister said in December the government would maintain controls on the property market in 2014 while increasing land and housing supply in cities facing big home-price increases. More recently, local media reported on Monday the land ministry plans to form a nationwide property registry database, seen as a precursor to any country-wide expansion of property taxes, which have been on trial in Shanghai and Chongqing since 2011. However, efforts to get the database up and running have faced resistance from local governments and groups with vested interests. China's property values have surged over 20 percent in the past four years, underscoring worries of a property bubble and social unrest as millions of first-home buyers are priced out of the market. Policy makers want to avoid a sharp slowdown in the property market as real estate is a bright spot in a slowing economy. The sector supports some 40 other industries and generates about 16 percent of the country's $8.5 trillion gross domestic product. The next several months will probably shed more light on whether Beijing has done enough to tame the market. Analysts say China's home price rises are likely to moderate in 2014 thanks to increased supply and impact of government measures. A vibrant market for land sales in 2013 is also expected to translate into a surge in home supply this year, helping put the brakes on home prices gains. The amount of new land supplied for residential property development hit a record high of 138,200 hectares in 2013, up 25 percent on the year, data from the Ministry of Land and Resources shows. A Reuters poll in November had also predicted a slowdown in house price growth, with analysts forecasting a rise of 5.0 percent this year after a predicted 10 percent in 2013. Reuters started its weighted China home price index in January 2011 when the NBS stopped providing nationwide data, only giving home price changes in each of 70 major cities. (Reporting By Xiaoyi Shao and Jonathan Standing; Editing by Shri Navaratnam) FREE AppDownload
