Stefano CampoloAfter opening higher, Hong Kong's Hang Seng is now off 0.05%. The Shanghai Composite is down 0.40%. Most markets in East Asia and the Pacific are lower, with the exception of Japan, which is up 0.2% on higher than expected machine orders. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Luke MacGregorUK drugmaker AstraZeneca is preparing to reject Pfizer's latest $117 billion offer for the firm, the FT's Ed Hammond, Andrew Ward and Arash Massoudi report. This is likely to end the American giant's takeover bid, they write, as Pfizer said it would walk away of this offer did not go through. FT: The [$92.53-per-share] bid, upped from [$84] two weeks ago, was viewed by key members of AstraZeneca’s management team and its board of directors as falling short of properly valuing the company, according to people familiar with the matter. The two companies have discussed the deal in recent days. During those talks AstraZeneca executives also felt that Pfizer failed to give assurances on other key terms of a deal, including commitments to the UK group’s research and development programmes AstraZeneca closed Friday at $80.28. Click here to read the full story on FT.com » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yuriko Nakao Japan's Nikkei index opened higher Monday morning after the country reported larger-than expected-orders for core machines ahead of a recent sales tax increase. Receipts jumped 19.1% month-over-month well above forecasts for 5.8%. The Nikkei opened up 0.2%.  Korea's Kospi index was down 0.5%.   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jim Young A rubber glove being used as a marker bobs in the water after flooding in Fox Lake, Illinois April 22, 2013. An insurance company is suing nearly 200 Chicago-area towns for failing to do more to prevent damages it says are linked to climate change, Reuters' Mica Rosenberg reports. Farmers Insurance is asking the communities to return flood claims from the spring of 2013, which caused at least $218 million in losses. The towns should have done more to fortify their sewers and stormwater drains, the group argues. Rosenberg:  The legal debate may center on whether an uptick in natural disasters is foreseeable or an "act of God." The cases raise the question of how city governments should manage their budgets before costly emergencies occur. It's not the first time an insurance company has made such a contention — there were a flurry of climate-change related lawsuits, ultimately dismissed, in the wake of Hurricane Katrina — but experts say we are likely to see more. "No one is expected to plan for the 500-year storm, but if horrible events are happening with increasing frequency, that may shift the duties," Michael Gerrard, director of the Center for Climate Change Law at Columbia Law School in New York, told Rosenberg.  Ironically, the region's avowal of the threat posed by climate change — and its alleged subsequent failure to do more to address it — may have made them a target, Rosenberg reports. Farmers cites Chicago's climate action plan in its suit to argue it was aware of risks like flooding.  Read the full story here » (Via Ken Silverstein) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonWorkers raise a U.S. flag outside the Pfizer building in New York September 4, 2013. U.S. drugmaker Pfizer said on Sunday it had raised its offer for British rival AstraZeneca to 69.3 billion pounds ($116.6 billion), or 55 pounds a share, and would walk away if AstraZeneca did not accept it. Pfizer wants to create the world's largest drugs company, with a headquarters in New York but a tax base in Britain, where corporate tax rates are lower than in theUnited States. It has met entrenched opposition from AstraZeneca, as well as many politicians and scientists who fear cuts to jobs and research. The U.S. group said its new offer was final and could not be increased. It said it would not make a hostile offer directly to AstraZeneca shareholders and would only proceed with an offer with the recommendation of the AstraZeneca board. Pfizer also increased the cash element in its offer to 45 percent, with AstraZeneca shareholders set to receive 1.747 shares in the enlarged company for each of their AstraZeneca shares and 2,476 pence in cash. Two banking sources earlier described 55 pounds a share as the "magic number" at which a deal could get done. Pfizer said it had written to AstraZeneca's chairman on May 16 offering 53.50 pounds a share but had been told that this still substantially undervalued the company, prompting it to make a further sweetened offer. AstraZeneca had already rejected an earlier approach worth 50 pounds a share on May 2. "We believe our proposal is compelling for AstraZeneca's shareholders and that a Pfizer-AstraZeneca combination is in the best interests of all stakeholders," Pfizer Chief Executive Ian Read said in a statement. He expressed frustration at AstraZeneca's refusal to engage in talks and urged the British company's shareholders to pressure its board to start discussions. "Following a conversation with AstraZeneca earlier today, we do not believe that the AstraZeneca board is currently prepared to recommend a deal at a reasonable price," Read said. "We remain ready to engage in a meaningful dialogue but time for constructive engagement is running out." In the absence of further discussions or an extension of the deadline for making a firm offer under British takeover rules, Pfizer's proposal will expire at 5 p.m. Londontime on May 26. AstraZeneca said it had no immediate comment on Pfizer's latest move. DRUG PIPELINE HOPES The British firm has laid out details of its pipeline of new drugs and argues there is no inevitability about a Pfizer deal, although its management also acknowledges the board would have to consider a compelling bid. Investors have backed AstraZeneca in rejecting 50 pounds a share, but many have said they would want it to engage in discussions if Pfizer came back with an improved offer. There has been a mounting political backlash against the proposed deal in Britain, the United States and Sweden, where AstraZeneca has half its roots. The Swedish government launched a concerted effort on Friday against a merger it fears will lead to cuts in science jobs and research, echoing concerns aired by British lawmakers at two parliamentary hearings last week and fears for U.S. jobs in states where AstraZeneca has a large presence. Pfizer's bid would be the largest foreign takeover of a British firm and is opposed by many scientists and politicians who fear it will undermine Britain's science base. British Prime Minister David Cameron has said he wants more assurances from Pfizer, and science minister David Willetts said last week he would like to see longer guarantees on investment than the five years currently promised by Pfizer. The UK government has also held exploratory discussions with Brussels about strengthening its ability to force Pfizer to honor commitments on jobs and research under European Union rules. But Cameron, head of the free-market Conservative Party, has also said Britain does not want to be seen to be pulling up the drawbridge to foreign companies. ($1 = 0.5942 British Pounds) (Editing by Larry King and Cynthia Osterman) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Luke MacGregorA man walks past Deutsche Bank offices in London December 5, 2013.  Deutsche Bank plans to raise $11 billion in new capital, the Frankfurt-based megabank announced Sunday.   The funding round comes amid concerns about the firm's capital levels, the paper notes. As the FT's Alice Ross and Daniel Schäfer wrote a couple of weeks ago:  Deutsche is one of the least well capitalised banks among its peers and has faced pressure from investors in recent weeks to do more to plug its capital gap. Executives have complained that the bank was unprepared for fresh regulations it will face this year. These include the European Banking Authority’s stress tests, which could see Deutsche ordered to raise more equity, as well as the possibility the European Central Bank will decide to impose tougher accounting standards on the lender. Among the new stakeholders is the Qatari royal family, which kicked in $2.4 billion. The FT says the new round is at the high end of what analysts were expecting. FREE AppDownload
APAT&T CEO Randall StephensonAT&amp;T announced today that it will buy DirecTV for $95 per share, in a deal valued at almost $50 billion ($48.5) and about $67 billion with debt.   The deal isn't a surprise. The news leaked out last week through the Wall Street Journal and several other publications, but everyone was waiting for the final price.  Now, regulators will have to approve the deal, which will take several months.  With DirecTV, AT&amp;T wouldn't just be getting a paid TV service that covers much of the U.S. DirecTV also has a sizeable presence in South America. About 20% of DirecTV's revenues last quarter came from its South America business, and it has a good amount of market share in the region. AT&amp;T also has a cable TV and broadband internet product called U-Verse, which is available in limited markets in the U.S. The deal is just the latest in a series of consolidation moves between internet and paid TV providers. Comcast announced a few months ago that it would buy Time Warner for $45 billion, making it the largest cable and broadband provider in the country. The deal is expected to go through this fall. To appease regulators, AT&amp;T will frame the DirecTV purchase as a way to provide blanket internet access to portions of the country that don't have reliable broadband yet. Meanwhile, AT&amp;T will have to prove to the government that its proposed merger won't give it an unfair advantage over other TV and internet providers. However, AT&amp;T could spin its own proposal as a counterweight to the Comcast deal. There's another big consolidation play that has everyone talking. Sprint is reportedly in talks to buy T-Mobile, which would create a strong third competitor to challenge AT&amp;T and Verizon, the two wireless giants that control most of the business in the U.S. That deal could be announced this summer, assuming talks don't fall through. This isn't AT&amp;T's first time trying to make a big acquisition. In 2011, it tried to buy T-Mobile, but the Department of Justice blocked the merger. FREE AppDownload
Here is what to do if you are on a commercial flight where a) both of your pilots become incapacitated and b) you are the one who decides to step up to the plate and land the thing.  Produced by Justin Gmoser. Follow BI: On Facebook    
Pocket squares are the best way to spruce up an otherwise generic suit – here's how to master the look. Produced By Matt Johnston.Follow BI Video: On Facebook
APOne of the earliest and most popular provisions of the Affordable Care Act — the one that allows young people to stay on their parents' plans until age 26 — may have a more far-reaching effect than previously measured, according to a new study published in the Journal of Health Economics.  The study determined the provision offers young adults more flexibility making both educational and work choices earlier in their lives. This flexibility leads to better employment matches for new workers entering the labor force. It also leads to higher overall wages, according to the study.  To conduct the study, researchers looked at similar provisions in state-based laws that were in effect before the passage of the Affordable Care Act. Between 1995-2010, at least 35 states began requiring employers to allow their employees' children to stay on their coverage plans until various ages — from 24 to 30.  Based on the provision's effect in those states and the fact more employers will have to provide coverage nationally under the Affordable Care Act, the study estimates the provision will increase wages by an average of 3.5% to 4.6% for people who were 18 or younger when the health-care overhaul passed. The study identified a few ways Obamacare's dependent provision could influence labor-market decisions by young people. First, without the provision, people attending college at later ages — at colleges that often require them to have health insurance — will experience lower costs from staying on their parents' plan. It could also lead them to pursue more time in college or graduate school, rather than immediately needing to find a job that offers health insurance.  Having health insurance also reduces the phenomenon known as "job-lock," in which workers feel confined to a job because they cannot take their employer-sponsored health insurance with them. With job-lock lessened, the researchers said, people are free to move around — often ending up with better-matching and higher-paying jobs. "This would be particularly important early in people’s careers before people gain experience in careers that are not their best matches," the researchers wrote. Finally, the researchers cited a third possible effect — called the "compensating differential theory" — that suggests since having health insurance through an employer should lower ultimate wages, young workers could enter the labor force through jobs that offer higher wages but do not offer health insurance. Based on the state lawsstudied in the research, women experience wage gains of about 3.1% while they have access to their parents' health insurance, an increase that largely continues to be evident after they lose access to dependent coverage. Men, meanwhile, experience gains of about 1.6% after they no longer have access to dependent coverage. The extension of dependent coverage is one of the only universally popular provisions of Obamacare, which as a whole is still widely unpopular. According to a March poll conducted by the Kaiser Family Foundation, 80% of respondents said they had a favorable view of the provision — including 76% of Republicans.  FREE AppDownload
Business Insider Here's something for your radar that you haven't thought about in awhile: Greece. Greek borrowing costs — which had been on a relentless march lower over the last many months — have jumped to a two-month high in recent weeks. This is a chart of the Greek 10-year bond. Bloomberg Obviously yields are still significantly lower then where they've been. But in addition to the rising borrowing costs, there are signs that all is not stable in Greek politics. The far-left SYRIZA party is surging in the polls. In regional elections that are happening Sunday, SYRIZA is performing very strongly, and the main party, New Democracy is underperforming. Meanwhile, PASOK, which is the mainstream liberal party that is part of New Democracy's government coalition is seeing its already measly support collapse. According to the newspaper Ekathimerini, the Greek government is once again at risk. Remember, the eurozone has found stability, because of an implicit pact between the national governments and the ECB. The ECB will backstop sovereign debt, in unlimited amounts, provided the national governments play ball and agree to fiscal reform and oversight and austerity. This has worked very well for bond investors, because it means that default is unlikely, but the eurozone economy is still extremely weak, especially in peripheral countries, like Greece. If the Greek government were to lose its authority, and ultimately get replaced by a more radical one less inclined to go with the ECB's demands, the eurozone's stability pact no longer works. Just something to watch. FREE AppDownload
Subway's business has exploded since it opened in 1965. The sandwich chain now has more locations than McDonald's.  We've compiled some facts about Subway that will blow your mind: Mike Nudelman/Business Insider FREE AppDownload
How should a dress shirt fit? Seems like a simple question – yet look around you. The vast majority of men are wearing dress shirts that are one to two sizes too large.  Why does this matter? Simply put – an ill-fitted dress shirt: Either of these should be enough to motivate you to either have your current dress shirts adjusted to fit by a local tailor or consider buying custom dress shirts. Although both options cost a little coin – the end result is a dress shirt that wear and feels great. Dress Shirt Collar Fit Just Right:The perfect collar fit touches the skin all the way around the neck, but does not press against it. You should be able to slip a finger in between your neck and the shirt at any point without struggling or forcing. Too Tight: The collar is close enough to actually press against the skin underneath it. There’s a discernible sensation of constriction. It would be impossible to put a finger between the neck and collar without stretching, tugging, or forcing. Too Loose: The collar does not touch the neck, but rather rests off the body. You could slip a finger in next to the neck without moving the cloth at all.Real Men Real Style Dress Shirt Shoulder Fit Just Right: The vertical shoulder seam sits at the edge of the shoulder, where the plane of the shoulder meets the plane of the outer arm. The armscye (the hole where the sleeve joins the shirt body) is large enough that there’s no tugging or twisting on the shoulder seam. Too Tight: The seam will be shifted up the shoulder toward the neck. Some of the sleeve rests on top of the shoulder. If the tightness is in the armscye, there may also be twisting that causes wrinkles or distortion along the seam. Too Loose: The shoulder seam slumps off the shoulder, down onto the outside of the bicep. There may be billowing under the arm as well, if the armscye is too big.Real Men Real Style Dress Shirt Torso Fit Just Right: The buttons close comfortable and the underside of the placket (the strip where the buttons and buttonholes are located) rests lightly against the sternum (the central bone of your ribcage). The shirt tucks in with no billowing at the sides. Too Tight: The buttons strain to close, causing radiating wrinkles around the buttonholes. Tightness may also cause pulling on the sleeves, distorting the armscye and shoulder seams. Too Loose: Excess fabric hangs slack around the stomach or chest, causing visible billowing. The shirt placket moves about and does not rest against the sternum. Tucking the shirt in causes billowing, ballooning, or “muffin-topping” near the trouser waist. Real Men Real Style Dress Shirt Sleeve Fit Just Right: The sleeve is slightly wider at the upper arm than the cuff, with a smooth, even taper. There should be some looseness when the arm hangs straight (so that the elbow isn’t constricted when the arm bends). Looseness should be evenly distributed, not bunched up at the shoulder or cuff. Too Tight: The fit is snug when the arm hangs straight, causing pinching when the elbow or shoulder moves. Tautness may cause radiating wrinkles at the shoulder seam or elbow. Too Loose: There is so much slack that gravity pulls it downward and creates hanging folds of cloth, especially around the cuff. Loose sleeve fabric can also flap and sway around the elbow and bicep.Real Men Real Style Dress Shirt Sleeve Cuff Just Right: The cuff is close to the body but allows a bit of space between the cuff and the skin. It should be possible to put the shirt on or take it off without unbuttoning the cuffs. Enough room for a pair of fingers (or for a normal-sized dress watch) is a good amount of slack. Too Tight: It is impossible to pull the shirt off without unbuttoning the cuffs (or popping a button). The cuff presses against the skin all the way around the wrist. Wrist watches can only be worn below the hem of the cuff, and the cuff bunches up if it meets them rather than sliding over the watch. Too Loose: The cuff is wide enough that it can slide loosely over a wristwatch and still have room for several fingers to be inserted between the cloth and skin. Folds or wrinkles form in the fabric of the cuff when the arms are rested against a surface like a tabletop.Real Men Real Style Dress Shirt Sleeve Length Just Right: The sleeve comes all the way down to the large wrist bone at the base of the pinky/ring fingers. If a jacket is worn, about a half-inch of shirt cuff should show beyond the end of the jacket sleeve. The cuff should at least touch (and in some postures cover) the wristwatch, if one is worn. Too Short: The cuff leaves the wrist bones exposed, or is hidden completely beneath jacket sleeves. Too Long: The cuff falls all the way to the point where the hand begins to widen outward from the wrist. This can cause bunching if the sleeves are so long that slack piles up behind the point where the cuff stops. If a wristwatch is worn, it is completely covered by the sleeve at all times.Real Men Real Style Dress Shirt Bottom Hem Length Just Right: When untucked, the hem falls far enough to cover the belt. It should be long enough at all points (including the sides, if the hems are scalloped) to tuck at least an inch or so into comfortably-worn trousers. Too Short: The untucked shirt does not completely cover the belt or waist of the trousers. When tucked in, points of the hem remain exposed, or have so little cloth tucked in that they are likely to pop out when the body moves and bends. Too Long: The shirttails fall all the way to cover the crotch in front or bottom in back. When tucked in, excess fabric has to be shoved down between the legs to hide bunching up.Real Men Real Style This article originally appeared at Real Men Real Style.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsDerweze gas fireThe cosmopolitan delights of Azerbaijan’s boomtown capital Baku are well known to international oil industry types, so it’s not surprising that the authoritarian country is heavily promoting itself as a tourist destination. With endless beaches, ancient ruins, snowcapped mountains and the chance of glimpsing the critically endangered Caucasian leopard, the country has plenty to offer visitors. Add mud volcanoes to the mix, and Azerbaijan begins to look like paradise for jaded travelers. Mud volcanos -- typically, small conical mounds that bubble up a clayey slurry -- aren’t as spectacular as Etna or Mount St. Helens, but they are safer to view – normally – and Azerbaijan has more of them than any other country: 344, according to Adil Aliyev of the Geology Institute of Azerbaijan, co-author of “What Do We Know About Mud Volcanoes?” The most popular place to see mud volcanoes is Gobustan National Park, about 37 miles from Baku. Famous for its ancient petroglyphs, Gobustan is also dotted with small mud volcanoes that can be viewed close up. These geological oddities are generally well-behaved but can occasionally erupt in magnificent bursts of flame. The Lokbatan volcano near Baku belched fire hundreds of feet into the air in 2001, and its 2012 eruption left a layer of mud spread over an area of two hectares, according to the Geology Institute. Across the Caspian, another energy-rich former Soviet republic is trying to shake off its reputation as one of the world’s most isolated and repressive countries. Tourism, though, is in its infancy in Turkmenistan. The brand-new luxury hotels of the Avaza beach resort complex, complete with artificial river, are mostly empty, and it’s a bit disconcerting that the government’s official resort website is a dead link. Tourists are few, but Turkmenistan swarms with oil and gas experts from all over, especially China, which the two countries recently announced will up its annual gas purchases to 65 billion cubic meters a year by 2016. Turkmenistan is thought to have the fourth largest gas reserves in the world, and the Galkynysh field that will supply China is the second largest after the South Pars field in the Persian Gulf. Wikimedia CommonsThe "Door to Hell" Turkmenistan, DarvazaAnd for adventurous tourists, Turkmenistan offers something even more spectacular than mud volcanoes: a “Door to Hell.” Set amid the bleak Karakum Desert, this attraction near the village of Derweze, or Darvaza, dates to the 1970s when a sinkhole opened beneath a test well drilled by Soviet geologists. Gas just beneath the surface ignited and has been burning merrily ever since. The ever-burning flames can be invisible by day, but at night they create a truly eerie sight, lighting up the desert for miles around like a giant witches’ cauldron big enough to swallow an office block. Several local tour operators arrange trips to the crater. Accommodation is in tents, and the evening entertainment consists of, “Enjoy view to burning gas crater” followed next day by “enjoy morning view to burning gas crater.” But that’s not all, according to one travel agency, which claims that the crater by night “becomes an attraction for huge and largely harmless spiders that run into the fire for reasons best known to themselves.” Presumably they run out again, or you’d think they’d be extinct by now. Could Derweze and its spiders have inspired J.R.R. Tolkien to create Shelob, the humongous spider in “Lord of the Rings” who guards the way into the land of Mordor and the fiery pit of Mount Doom? Since Tolkien died in 1973, it seems unlikely. But in the land whose late dictator erected a 50-ft golden statue of himself, anything is possible. FREE AppDownload
Christian Fox, an instructor at CrossFit South Brooklyn, explains the techniques involved in this strength and conditioning workout that has recently crossed over from the ultimate fighting world into the mainstream. Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis. Follow BI Video: On Twitter
Hussman FundsOne of the hottest debates in the stock market right now is about where record-high profit margins are heading next. GMO's James Montier and John Hussman of Hussman Funds are among the market strategists who are convinced margins are unsustainable and doomed to fall to a long-term average. To support their thesis, they both point to a somewhat obscure national income equation advanced by Polish economist Michal Kalecki. It looks like this: Profits = Investment - Household Savings - Government Savings - Foreign Savings + Dividends From there, Montier and Hussman conclude that record high profit margins are largely attributable to fat government deficits and depressed household savings. Indeed, that relationship appears to form a pretty tight correlation as seen in the chart from Hussman you see above. Conversely, when deficits shrink and savings rise, profit margins will be toast. However, not everyone agrees with that conclusion. "S&amp;P profit margins are high from structural reasons, not because of the deficit," argued Deutsche Bank's David Bianco, a strategist who has long argued that margins are sustainable. "This construct assumes that no savings are recycled as investment," he said. "This is not a small matter." To be clear, Bianco doesn't explicitly identify Montier nor Hussman. Just their work. He continued: "Simply said, the notion that savings reduces investment is a bold claim that runs contrary to basic macro economics. The continued extension of this misguided framework to the view that government deficits add to profits overlooks that someone's borrowing (for temporarily higher consumption or investment expenditure) is someone's savings (temporarily lower consumption or less direct investment expenditure, ie real assets, for indirect investment instead, ie financial assets)... In our view, profits are not a function of the degree to which households give back their wages as expenditures on consumption. This is a very flawed concept. This framework suggests zero sum economic terms and that savings are unproductive." You can almost hear Bianco pounding the table. For some context, Bianco is no raging bull on the stock market right now. As of his May 2 research note, his year-end target for the S&amp;P 500 was 1,850 and he expects the next 5%+ move to be down. Here's Bianco's full comment on the profit margin matter from his April 13, 2014 note: S&amp;P profits and margins recovered back to pre-crisis level by 2011. This led many to believe a well circulated argument that deficit boosted S&amp;P profits. The crux of this specious argument that profit margins are boosted by a high government deficit and low household savings rate rests on the over simplification of “Profits = Investment + Consumption – Wages” to “Profits = Investment – Household Savings”. This construct assumes that no savings are recycled as investment. This is not a small matter. It represents a major conceptual flaw in this framework, which taints the entire analysis. The equation above would only be correct if all savings were stuck in a Keynesian liquidity trap. This is neither the point of the argument nor the general condition, thus the equation above fails to recognize that: Investment = Savings. Income not spent on consumption expenditures usually goes into investment expenditures. Incorporating this normal condition negates the conceptual leap from the easily accepted "Profits = Investment + Consumption - Wages" to "Profits = Investment - Household Savings" as the latter expression of the former equation fails to acknowledge that profits are a source of household income. This ignores the real world relationship that exists in the economy of profits supporting consumption, but more importantly that profits also support a big portion of investment. Dividends might be added to the tail of the equation, but this doesn't suffice because even earnings retained by companies and proprietorships are invested on behalf of owners. Simply said, the notion that savings reduces investment is a bold claim that runs contrary to basic macro economics. The continued extension of this misguided framework to the view that government deficits add to profits overlooks that someone's borrowing (for temporarily higher consumption or investment expenditure) is someone's savings (temporarily lower consumption or less direct investment expenditure, ie real assets, for indirect investment instead, ie financial assets). In short, the government and foreign variables can be set aside. What this really comes down to is: Are Profits = Investment - Household Savings? In our view, profits are not a function of the degree to which households give back their wages as expenditures on consumption. This is a very flawed concept. This framework suggests zero sum economic terms and that savings are unproductive. In our preferred conceptual framework, investment drives growth. If households consume less then they invest more. Thus, profits are a function of cumulative past savings and the return on such capital stock as determined by risk and the competitive forces between labor and capital. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Amit DaveHindu nationalist Narendra Modi, the prime ministerial candidate for India's main opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), gestures as he addresses his supporters during a public meeting in Vadodra in the western Indian state of Gujarat May 16, 2014. The hottest stock market in the world lately has been India's. As you can see, there's been a gigantic rally over the last couple months, as it became clear that Narendra Modi would win the election and become the country's new prime minister, something which was confirmed at the end of last week. Bloomberg The answer to that is captured nicely in a new report from Morgan Stanley's Chetan Ahya titled: A Trigger For The Next India. Basically, because Modi is very pro-growth and development, and because his party won in a gigantic landslide, India may finally have a government ready to institute badly needed political reforms that will reduce the deficit, corruption, bureaucracy, and inflation. In Morgan Stanley's terms, the result was a "political tsunami" with the key message being a strong mandate for economic development: The elections also underpin the point we have made often over the past few months – Indian youth’s rising aspirations, desire for growth and development, and strong leadership are driving the political debate in the country. This increases the probability that the new government will focus on development and governance as its prime agenda. It sets the stage for India’s structural story to unfold in the coming years as we have highlighted in our recent note “The Next India”. We have assumed a greater chance of a reform agenda even though clarity on this will emerge in the ensuing weeks. The key forecasts: -- Faster transition from stagflation to higher growth and slower inflation likely--GDP growth to accelerate by 210bps over the next 8 quarters to 6.8%-- Inflation will finally head towards RBI’s comfort zone of 6% over the next two years  --In the initial phase, the recovery will be driven by improvement in productivity rather than by an increase in capital input --We are even more confident of our medium term forecast that India’s GDP growth will average 6.75% over the next 10 years taking its GDP to US$5 trillion from the current US$1.9 trillion. As for the current state of the Indian, there's probably no better way to see the problems than this chart, which shows the number of investment projects that have been stalled. Morgan Stanley When the global credit crisis hit in 2008, the number of stalled projects exploded. And it's never gotten back to normal. While there's been some improvement lately, you can see the massive bottleneck in getting anything done. If the new government — with its outright majority — can get things moving again, the potential is significant. And from a global story, there's a simple reason to be excited about India. In the next 10 years, India is set to deliver a quarter of the world's working age population growth. This is far higher than any other country. Morgan Stanley India also lags significantly compared to other big, emerging markets in its pace of urbanization, another potential, pent-up growth driver. Morgan Stanley The potential for structural growth in India is enormous due to demographic and other factors. But internally, reforms are badly needed. Now there's a pro-growth government that has a huge political mandate. The pieces are in place for a boom. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersMan enters office building of Siemens AG in BerlinFRANKFURT/BERLIN/PARIS (Reuters) - Germany's Siemens is working on a formal asset-swap offer for Alstom's power business that could come as early as this week and see France take a stake in a resulting rail-focused French group, sources close to the talks told Reuters. Alstom is already in talks with U.S. conglomerate General Electric over a 12.35 billion euro ($16.9 billion) bid for its power arm, which it is due to review by June 2. However, under pressure from the French government, it has opened its books to Siemens so it can propose its own deal if it wants to. Sources on both sides of the talks said Siemens was actively working on an improved asset swap offer that would create two European "champions": one in power around Siemens, one in transport around Alstom. In a short letter to Alstom late last month, Siemens had outlined a proposal worth $14.5 billion, offering to exchange part of its rail business plus cash in exchange for Alstom's power assets. Siemens has since sweetened its offer to suggest handing over all of its rail business to Alstom and discuss setting up a joint venture in rail signaling, sources familiar with the talks said. To limit the German firm's influence in the resulting transport-focused Alstom group, Siemens is also discussing with Paris and Berlin the opportunity for France - which owns 0.9 percent of Alstom's capital via state fund CDC - to take a more sizeable stake, political and other sources familiar with the talks said. According to various sources, Paris has lately been considering taking a stake in Alstom - one source said it could take over 10 percent - in an effort to secure the French roots of the engineering group which received a state bailout a decade ago and is a big private employer in the country. Meanwhile Siemens could offer to sell Alstom's wind and nuclear power assets to French state-controlled energy group Areva, thereby addressing government concerns over France's energy independence, said two of the sources familiar with the talks. Some of the sources close to the talks cast doubt on whether Alstom would be interested in the new deal sketched out by Siemens. Still, a rival offer would give the French government more leverage with GE after it gave itself the power last week to block takeovers in "strategic sectors". Sources close to Alstom say it wants cash and backs GE's bid, and while it does want to expand in rail signaling it is not interested in taking on more rolling stock. Siemens, General Electric and Areva declined to comment. A spokeswoman for Alstom declined to comment beyond saying it was reviewing GE's bid and had received an expression of interest from Siemens, but no formal offer. A spokesman for French state fund CDC could not be reached outside European business hours. ($1 = 0.7297 Euros) (Additional reporting by Sophie Sassard in London, Markus Wacket in Berlin, Benjamin Mallet and Julien Ponthus in Paris; Writing by Natalie Huet and Noah Barkin; Editing by Elaine Hardcastle) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Arnd Wiegmann People hold up their voting cards during the annual Landsgemeinde meeting at the Zaunplatz square, in the eastern Swiss town of Glarus. ZURICH (Reuters) - Swiss voters on Sunday rejected proposals to introduce the world's highest minimum wage and spend $3.5 billion buying new Gripen fighter jets from Saab. About 76 percent of voters in the wealthy nation dismissed the proposal made by Swiss union SGB and backed by the Socialist and Green parties for a minimum wage of 22 Swiss francs ($25) per hour, final results showed. Meanwhile, some 53 percent blocked a government plan to free up funds to replace Switzerland's aging fleet of fighter jets with 22 Gripen jets from Saab. Just over 55 percent of those eligible voted, the government said. The clear rejection of the proposed minimum wage - which corresponds to a monthly paycheck of 4,000 francs (about $4,500) - brings relief to business leaders worried the measure would have hurt competitiveness and damaged the Swiss workplace. "If the initiative had been accepted, without doubt that would have led to job cuts, particularly in remote and structurally weaker regions," Swiss Economy Minister Johann Schneider-Ammann said at a news conference. Sunday's vote is the latest in a slew of initiatives being put to voters to try to address the widening income gap in the generally egalitarian country. Voters overwhelmingly backed a referendum last year to give shareholders a binding say over executive pay, but turned down a proposal to cap the salaries of top executives at 12 times that of a company's lowest wage. Supporters of the minimum wage had argued the proposed measure would have helped smooth out salary inequality and ensure a person working full-time can live decently. Despite the resounding "no", Daniel Lampart, chief economist at SGB, said the debate around the measure in the run-up to the vote had prompted many firms to introduce a minimum wage of more than 4,000 francs. Discounter Lidl raised minimum Swiss salaries to 4,000 francs last year and retailer H&amp;M has vowed to follow suit next year, although employers do not acknowledge a direct link to the proposal. Swiss voters have a history of voting against proposals they feel could hurt the country's economic success story or threaten competitiveness. Yet the public unexpectedly voted by a razor thin majority in February to curb immigration from the European Union and last year backed a proposal to give shareholders a binding say over executive pay - both times ignoring warnings from business groups. The "no" vote for the Gripen jets bucks a historic trend for public support for the military and runs counter to a referendum last September, in which the Swiss public voted overwhelmingly in favor of keeping military conscription. The government had argued that Switzerland needed modern fighter jets - which are used to police the skies above Davos during the World Economic Forum - to support its armed forces and protect the country's stability. "This decision will cause a security gap," Defence Minister Ueli Maurer said in reaction to the vote. "We will do everything we can to fill this gap in these difficult circumstances as quickly as is possible." Switzerland was embarrassed earlier this year when a hijacked Ethiopian Airlines plane heading for Geneva had to be escorted by French and Italian fighter jets because the incident occurred outside normal business hours. Although both the Swiss upper and lower houses of parliament backed the deal, Swiss interest groups - including the socialists, Greens and the Group for Switzerland without an Army - secured a referendum by collecting the 50,000 signatures needed to force the popular vote. Opponents had argued buying the jets was an unnecessary expense, requiring cuts in other areas, such as education. They also said the cost of keeping the jets in operation would likely spiral to at least 10 billion francs over their lifetime. "Thanks to the annual savings of 300 million francs, in the coming years we no longer need budget cuts in education, green policy and infrastructure," the Green Party's co-President Regula Rytz said in a statement. The defeat is also a setback in terms of revenues for Sweden's Saab, but analysts did not expect it to derail the future development of the latest generation Gripen. Switzerland's selection of the warplane in 2011 was a vote of confidence in the new version of the fighter jet and helped smooth the way for a surprise win of a larger tender to supply planes to Brazil. ($1 = 0.8914 Swiss Francs) (Reporting by Caroline Copley; additional reporting by Paul Arnold and Silke Koltrowitz; Editing by Elaine Hardcastle and Rosalind Russell) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jason Reed We survived the fiscal cliff and the government shutdown. But there's another big battle brewing this summer between Congress and the Obama administration with dire economic consequences that could cost the country hundreds of thousands of jobs. And even though politicians on both sides of the aisle agree this disaster is "completely avoidable," all signs indicate we're on a collision course with crisis.  On Wednesday, President Barack Obama gave his first formal warning about this impending self-inflicted disaster — the Highway Trust Fund, a transportation and infrastructure fund financed by gasoline taxes, is set to run out by the end of the summer. Thus far, Congress has not come up with a solution, and both sides are beginning to dig in. By July, thousands of projects and contracts could be put on hold amid the uncertainty — right in the middle of summer construction season. In one economic analysis released last week, the Obama administration warned 700,000 jobs tied to the fund and its uncertain future are at stake.  "Right now, there are more than 100,000 active projects paving roads and rebuilding bridges, modernizing our transit systems," Obama said Wednesday in remarks near the Tappan Zee Bridge in Tarrytown, New York, where a $3.9 billion effort to replace the current aging structure is underway.  "States might have to choose which ones to put the brake on. Some states are already starting to slow down work because they’re worried Congress won’t untangle the gridlock on time. And that’s something you should remember every time you see a story about a construction project stopped, or machines idled, or workers laid off their jobs." The fundamental problem is that gasoline taxes alone are no longer enough to finance the Highway Trust Fund, due to declining fuel use across the U.S. However, neither the White House nor Congress wants to raise those taxes, and there is a disagreement about how to fill the fund without them. Simply put, spending on transportation and infrastructure now exceeds gas taxes taken in. During recent testimony before the Senate Finance Committee, Joseph Kile, the assistant director for microeconomic studies at the congressional budget office, laid out two politically painful potential solutions — either cut spending in the fund's two accounts by 30% and 65%, or raise the gas tax by 10 to 15 cents per gallon. In an election year, both options are non-starters. The gas tax hasn't been raised since 1993. Though increasing these tariffs seems like the most logical solution to most analysts, it won't have a chance before the midterm elections. Kile said Congress could also shift money from the rest of the federal budget to the Highway Trust Fund, which seems like the most politically palatable option.  APWhen he issued his dire warnings Wednesday, Obama advocated for his solution to the fund fiasco — a four-year, $302 billion transportation and infrastructure plan. Warning the "cupboard will be bare," he urged Congress to act on his plan — but that too seems unlikely. Obama's plan would require about half the cost to be paid for by closing corporate tax loopholes and through other changes Republicans have long resisted.  Democratic Sen. Patty Murray, who has been sounding the alarm for weeks on the Highway Trust Fund, has begun a campaign to prod Republicans into adopting a fix that runs similar to Obama's proposal. To back up her case, Murray noted Republican Rep. Dave Camp, the chair of the House Ways and Means Committee, dedicated $126.5 billion to the Highway Trust Fund in his proposal to reform the tax code released earlier this year. "Democrats and Republicans have put forward plans to fill the trust fund using corporate revenue, including President Obama and House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Camp," Murray said last week at a legislative summit. "I think this approach makes sense, and I don’t think we need to wait until comprehensive tax reform to do it.  Of the long list of wasteful corporate loopholes that Democrats and Republicans agree should be closed, surely we can find a way to agree on eliminating just a few of the most egregious ones to invest in jobs and economic growth and prevent an unnecessary crisis." Right now, though, the most likely solution in the Senate runs through the Environment and Public Works Committee, which unveiled a bipartisan proposal this week. The bill would keep spending on projects at current levels, but it doesn't explicitly say how to raise the needed revenue, leaving that job for congressional tax-writers at a later date.  The House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, meanwhile, has yet to introduce its version of the bill. All of this uncertainty already has analysts worried. "Both parties are miles apart on how to replenish the Highway Trust Fund," said Greg Valliere, an analyst at Potomac Research. "Obama aides amped up the volume [Monday], insisting that the funding should come largely from $150 billion in corporate tax reform. Chances of that happening this year are virtually nil — and the White House knows it. The brinkmanship over highway funding will persist well into the summer." For Chris Krueger, an analyst at Guggenheim Partners in Washington, the obvious solution is raising the gas tax. In a research note on Monday, Krueger said the most likely fix is another bout of kicking the can down the road — possibly creating more potholes along the way.  "A temporary extension of the Highway Bill would likely create a headwind for all companies that rely on federal infrastructure investment (such as Martin Marietta, Vulcan Materials, Granite Construction, Cemex, Caterpillar, Astec Industries, Eagle Materials, and Texas Industries) until a new bill is signed into law," he said. FREE AppDownload

Photo: Daniel KriegerThe restaurant industry is notoriously cut-throat: According to the National Restaurant Association, 30% of restaurants fail in the first year they open, and of those that survive, another 30% close in the next two. To stand out in an increasingly bloated market, restaurants need to wow diners with incredible meals, outstanding service, and great ambiance — especially if they're charging upwards of $100 a person for the experience. With dozens of best-restaurant lists and user-generated reviews crowding the internet, the definitive winner can get lost in the shuffle. We looked at five notable restaurant rankings compiled by food critics, diners, and experts, and combined these rankings to come up with the ultimate list of the Best Restaurants in America. The rankings we used were The Daily Meal's 101 Best Restaurants in America; OpenTable's 2013 Diners' Choice Top 100 Best Restaurants in America; The World's 100 Best Restaurants; the James Beard Foundation's 2014 Restaurant and Chef Award Semifinalists; and Zagat's 20 Top-Rated Restaurants Across America. We gave each restaurant a numerical rating based on how many lists the restaurant appeared on and how high it appeared on lists that were ranked. Restaurants that appeared on multiple lists ranked higher on our list, while restaurants that ranked on only one of these lists ended up closer to the bottom. You can read our complete methodology and see numerical scores here. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersAn aerial view shows the new Sao Goncalo do Amarante international airport, built in preparation for increased traffic during the 2014 soccer World Cup, in NatalNATAL, Brazil (Reuters) - When Brazil drafted plans to host the upcoming World Cup, this Atlantic beach destination was exactly the type of city it wanted to show off. A nationwide economic boom was transforming the once-sleepy backwater into a fast-growing city typical of the new Brazil, a country at last poised to make its long-promised leap into the first world. Who cares that Natal, in the historically poor northeast, lies far from the nerve centers of Rio de Janeiro and São Paulo? Or that its stadium, home to middling regional teams, was hardly a venue for big-league soccer, let alone the world's most popular tournament? Natal would build a state-of-the-art new arena, authorities said, and all manner of additional infrastructure, too. They promised a light rail network, a new hospital, a beachfront facelift and wheelchair-friendly sidewalks. Five years later, and four weeks before kickoff, little besides the arena and a remote, untested airport are complete. Almost half the more than $1.3 billion in promised developments never began. What did has languished, including ongoing road work that has rendered the stadium's outskirts a raw sprawl of rebar, dust and concrete. "This is a missed opportunity," says Fernando Mineiro, a state assemblyman for the leftist Workers' Party, now in its 12th year in national power. "Natal failed to deliver." Cities go after the World Cup, the Olympics and other events because the tourism, broadcast exposure and other revenues can justify infrastructure investments and other "legacy" benefits like those that famously remade Barcelona for the 1992 Olympics. But waste is also common, often leaving idle infrastructure, like useless South African stadiums after the 2010 Cup, as legacies of little but vanity. Across Brazil, especially its 12 Cup venues, locals are lamenting high costs, delays and stillborn investments. Bureaucracy, corruption and political squabbling, they say, has led to the usual lack of follow-through that has often hobbled development in Latin America's biggest country. A $16 billion bullet train between Rio and São Paulo never got off the drawing board. Instead of a new airport terminal, passengers in Fortaleza will pass through a huge tent. A $700 million rail line in the farm-belt capital of Cuiabá won't be ready until well after the Cup. Nationwide, only 36 of 93 major projects are complete, according to Sinaenco, a trade group of engineers and architects. The shortfalls compound already widespread discontent over the roughly $11 billion spent on the event. The cost is particularly vexing now that Brazil's economy, after a near-decade of average annual growth over four percent, has lumbered to half that rate. Mass protests erupted across Brazil last June during a tournament considered a World Cup warm-up, and smaller demonstrations have continued. The Cup, many Brazilians say, reveals still-glaring divides in a country big on spectacle but weak on health care, infrastructure, education and other vital services. "It will be a beautiful tournament," says Maria Santos, a 29-year-old Natal nurse in line for a bus to a hospital where she and colleagues often work without latex gloves and syringes. "But whatever they spend on it would be better spent elsewhere." Like other host cities where ambition outpaced reality, and Brazil's economy itself, Natal fell far short of developed-world aspirations. The city of just under 1 million residents is beset by soaring crime, crippling traffic, erratic public finances and local politics so baroque, and allegedly corrupt, that a mayor was recently ousted and the current state governor faces possible impeachment. "Things haven't gone quite as predicted," says José Aldemir Freire, an economist at the local office of Brazil's national statistics agency. "There were some investments, yes, but not on the scale expected." FIFA, soccer's global authority, at first expected only eight host cities. But Brazil's government and national soccer kingpins wanted to show off more, scoring regional political points in the process. Brazil, they told FIFA, would prepare 12 venues, unleashing a scramble among second-tier cities. "We were an ugly duckling," recalls Fernando Fernandes, a former state secretary for the event. But Natal had advantages. At the elbow of South America, it is closer to Europe than any other destination in Brazil. Natal's shoreline, along towering dunes that shape its landscape, boasts more hotel rooms than any host besides Rio, São Paulo and Salvador. When FIFA announced Natal's name at a ceremony in May 2009, residents gathered beachside to watch live on a giant screen. Fireworks flared overhead and local officials promptly began making promises. Their first challenge was the new stadium. FIFA required an arena for at least 42,000 spectators - ten times the average for routine Natal games. Local officials decided to demolish the existing stadium and build anew. They hired architects and calculated a cost of $180 million for the new arena. When they sought bids for the job in 2010, though, contractors said it couldn't be built for that price. Organizers scaled back the blueprint, reducing the size of a wavy canopy around the top that is a nod to the nearby dunes. They settled for 32,000 permanent seats, the additional 10,000 for the Cup installed only temporarily. In February 2011, OAS SA, a São Paulo builder, took the job. The federal government, meanwhile, agreed to finance an airport. Though an existing airport easily accommodates Natal's passenger traffic, local industry wanted another facility to boost cargo capacity. The federal government would invest roughly $260 million but would rely on a contractor to build it and the state of Rio Grande do Norte, of which Natal is capital, to lay access roads. The city, for its part, agreed to improve traffic and drainage near the stadium. But the promise of six new tunnels and two new viaducts stalled. Locals pressed then-mayor Micarla de Sousa for results. "She did absolutely nothing," says Carlos Eduardo Alves, Natal's current mayor. De Sousa said she struggled to secure financing. She also suffered health problems that led her by early 2012 to announce she wouldn't seek re-election. In October 2012, two months before her term's end, a state court ousted her, alleging irregularities in city contracts. De Sousa, in an interview, denied wrongdoing. She says her removal was orchestrated by opponents and notes she has yet to be charged with a crime. Regardless, Natal by 2013 had little city work underway. Alves, the incumbent, says he revamped the plans and finally began $290 billion worth of construction early this year. He says most of the ongoing work will be completed, or cleaned up, by showtime. Stadium neighbors, weary of the jackhammers, are skeptical. "Good thing people can't drive to the games," scoffs Rodrigo Pereira, a shopkeeper near one of the tunnels, citing FIFA rules for a large security perimeter around matches, forcing attendees to walk. "My customers can't even reach me." The state, too, is under fire. The stadium contract, a partnership with the builder, obliges the state to reimburse construction loans and pay management fees. Over two decades, it is expected to pay over $900 million, approximately five times the job cost. While most locals say they like the stadium, with its undulating roof, they worry about the bill. "We have real concerns about the ultimate price," says Luciano Ramos, an auditor with a state court reviewing the contract. The state is also criticized because it is only now finishing the first of two airport roads. The airport itself may not be operational by game time - a tentative launch is scheduled May 22. Governor Rosalba Ciarlini blames bureaucracy and high personnel costs, an "inheritance" from previous administrations that she says limit the state's ability to invest. Payroll is so bloated the state pays salaries late. Some contractors, including suppliers to hospitals, have quit transacting with the state. Controversial herself, Ciarlini faces impeachment efforts because a state court earlier this year found she favored political allies with pork-barrel spending. Ciarlini calls the ruling politically motivated. The stadium's cost, she says, will be offset by revenues from future events, even though critics say Natal has neither the soccer heft nor the pull on the concert circuit to guarantee profitability. The price of the partnership, she says, is the cost of long-term financing. "This is like buying a car. You don't pay the sticker price." Besides, "we have the prettiest new arena in Brazil." (Editing by Todd Benson and Kieran Murray) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Adam HungerLeBron James and Dr. Dre attend MLB's 2010 season opener to watch the reigning World Series Champions New York Yankees take on the Boston Red Sox in their American League baseball game at Fenway Park in Boston, Massachusetts April 4, 2010. SAN FRANCISCO/LOS ANGELES (Reuters) - More than a decade ago, the late Steve Jobs pulled one of his trademark reality distorting maneuvers, browbeating music label executives into selling songs on Apple Inc's then-nascent iTunes digital store for a mere 99 cents apiece. Now, the tables have turned and it's Apple that is being forced into a deal that is far from a sure-fire winner. The iPod and iPhone maker is expected to announce as early as this week a $3.2 billion agreement to buy Beats Electronics, the music streaming service and headphone maker founded by legendary music producer Jimmy Iovine and rapper Dr Dre, according to three sources familiar with Apple's thinking. The deal would come after Pandora Media Inc and Spotify have already claimed the vanguard of the music streaming revolution, while Apple's riposte - the eight-month-old iTunes Radio - is stumbling. "Apple is about two years late, behind Spotify," said David Pakman, a digital music investor with Venrock Capital and a co-creator of Apple's Music Group. "They need a streaming offering." With digital music downloads in decline, record labels have put pressure on Apple to get its act together on streaming, according to two of the three sources. The record labels hope Apple can turn Beats Music into a strong competitor with Spotify and other streaming services, the sources said. "The labels wanted Apple to build a premium service," said one of the sources, who like the others were not authorized to speak about the matter on the record. "They wanted ... to make money through the stream." In recent months, the major labels had grown dissatisfied with the performance of iTunes Radio, the source said. Streaming subscriptions are now the fastest-growing revenue source for the music industry, but Apple has not made a dent. Streaming subscriptions jumped 51 percent in 2013 to $1.1 billion, out of a $15 billion total spent on music, according to the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry. Meanwhile, digital downloads slipped 2.1 percent. Per-user spending is higher with streaming services than for music downloads. A good customer spends $25 to $35 a year on music purchases, but a subscriber spends $9 or more a month - or more than $100 a year, according to one source. Labels earn royalties of a fraction of a cent for every stream, which the source said works out to a higher revenue per user than pure digital sales. Apple, Beats and record labels Warner Music Group and Sony Music Entertainment declined to comment for this story. A spokeswoman for Universal Music Group did not respond to requests for comment. In buying Beats, Apple would get an up-and-coming music streaming service, a well-connected team of industry executives, and high-margin hardware. But the high price tag would represent a departure for Apple after two decades of acquisitions mainly in the hundreds of millions of dollars. Some Wall Street analysts have termed Apple's plan purchase of Beats "puzzling." Despite the rapid growth of streaming, it remains a small slice of the overall music market. If the labels do not agree to lower royalties rates, then, like Pandora or Spotify, Apple may struggle to make its streaming profitable. And Beats is several years behind Pandora and Spotify, which have 99 million active users combined. Still, the fact that the record labels are getting behind Apple marks a thawing in what had been at times an openly adversarial relationship, industry sources said. The "a la carte" model that iTunes introduced in 2001 had slashed revenue for the labels as it no longer required customers to buy whole albums. Now, the music industry believes streaming is the way of the future, though its rise has not been smooth. Industry sources say licensing negotiations with the likes of Spotify and Pandora come up every 12 to 15 months and can be difficult. It is unclear what terms an Apple-owned Beats might command. Apple does have a big bargaining chip in iTunes, which has 800 million members. "ITunes is the number one for digital downloads," said Daniel Weisman, a manager at Roc Nation who represents bands. "If iTunes can flip the switch on their user base to become streaming subscribers, that will be a huge win for everyone." A source at a music publisher said the labels like Beats because it was "created from within the music industry." Getting Iovine on board will give Apple huge leverage across the negotiating table as streaming develops. He will likely leave Interscope records and join Apple, according to two sources. Apple is seldom a first mover into markets, preferring to bide its time and monitor early entrants. The company had been watching Beats Music's take-up rates since its January launch and was impressed when the service signed up some 1,000 customers a day in the initial weeks, one of the sources familiar with Apple's thinking said. "Google, YouTube, Spotify and others are working on ways to stream music," said Andrew Mains, former vice president of digital at Interscope Records, who worked closely with Iovine and Apple's iTunes team. "If Apple can control the future of music distribution by buying Beats, they will retain control of the devices." (Additional reporting by Jennifer Saba in New York; Editing by Edwin Chan and Tiffany Wu) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/China DailyShipping containers are seen piled up at a port in Qingdao, Shandong province December 10, 2013. Globalization’s impact on trade used to be relatively straightforward: developed countries outsourced production to low-wage economies in return for cheap goods. Yet as emerging economies develop a robust middle class and gain more access to digital technologies, cross-border exchanges between countries are becoming more complex. They’re also growing at a dizzying pace. In 2012, cross-border flows of goods, services and finance totaled $26 trillion, or 36 percent of global gross domestic product, according to an April report by the McKinsey Global Institute entitled “Global Flows in a Digital Age.” That proportion was 1.5x higher than it was in 1990, according to McKinsey, which estimates that it could climb to as high as 49 percent, or $85 trillion, by 2025. That increased cross-border trade holds out tremendous opportunities for the global economy, offering countries the opportunity to profit more from their comparative advantages while at the same time facilitating the introduction of new innovations to their domestic markets. The Institute estimates that cross-border flows add as much as $450 billion every year to global GDP. Much of the increase in flows to and from developing countries over the past two decades can be attributed to China, India and Brazil becoming mainstays of global trade. Overall, the emerging world’s share of total flows has nearly tripled since 1990, reaching 38 percent in 2012. Flows between emerging markets accounted for more than half of that amount – $4.4 trillion, or 24 percent of the global total, up from just $198 billion, or 6 percent, twenty years ago. That said, even the top developing markets remain far behind their developed counterparts when it comes to global trade. Only one of the 15 most connected economies in the world — Russia — is an emerging one. Malaysia, which ranks 18th, has flows that are just one-seventh that of first place Germany. What’s interesting, according to McKinsey, is that the much-heralded rise of the emerging market middle class won’t necessarily translate into an even larger piece of the global trade pie. Why is that? Because worldwide flows that transmit ideas and expertise are increasing faster than more traditional exchanges of labor, capital and resources. Yet it is precisely these “knowledge-intensive” flows that are the developing world’s weakest link—emerging markets account for only one-third of the world total. That’s mainly because emerging economies are lagging in flows of data and communications, accounting for only 24 percent of cross-border Internet traffic. Of the 20 countries considered to have the best broadband penetration, only three are developing. “There really is a digital divide,” says Susan Lund, a partner at the Institute and co-author of the report. “We have to shift our thinking about Internet connectivity.” Policymakers in emerging markets could be excused for thinking that they have had more pressing matters to deal with of late, in particular the debt and equity outflows sparked by the U.S. Federal Reserve’s decision to pare back its large-scale asset buying program. Yet while volatile bond flows have caused significant currency fluctuations, they only represent 20 percent of overall capital flows into emerging markets, compared with 58 percent accounted for by foreign direct investment, according to McKinsey. Global financial flows also have also fallen 70 percent since the financial crisis, thereby reducing their relative importance in global trade. It’s high time then, says Lund, for officials in emerging markets to enact policy that stimulates knowledge-intensive flows. Such exchanges include goods produced with highly skilled labor—such as semiconductors, computers, pharmaceuticals and automobiles—as well as business services such as accounting, law and engineering. Policymakers can encourage this by boosting telecommunications infrastructure and by beefing up educational programs to improve the supply of skilled labor. “Policymakers,” the report says, “need to become much more thoughtful about the increasing dominance of knowledge-intensive goods and services, the torrent of data that is transforming cross-border activity, and the economic promise of digitization.” That, in turn, would attract more foreign direct investment to the developing world. There’s room for growth: in 2010, the 100 largest companies headquartered in developed economies obtained just 17 percent of their revenues from emerging markets, according to McKinsey, despite the fact that those countries accounted for 36 percent of global GDP. Boosting their presence wouldn’t be an altruistic endeavor either: growing consumer demand in the developing world represents a huge opportunity for multinationals to grow their bottom line. The Financialist is a digital magazine presented by Credit Suisse that looks at the trends and ideas that drive markets, businesses and economies. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersJerome Kerviel, former trader of French bank Societe Generale, talks to the media in front of his hotel in VentimigliaPARIS (Reuters) - Convicted rogue trader Jerome Kerviel said on Sunday he would stay in Italy rather than report to a French police station as required to start serving a three-year jail sentence. Kerviel, 37, said he was appealing to French President Francois Hollande to intervene in his case. He has spent over three years fighting charges stemming from massive market bets that almost brought French bank Societe Generale to the brink of collapse in 2008. He has been convicted of breach of trust, forgery and fraudulent data manipulation. He embarked on a march on foot from Rome to Paris earlier this year, meeting the pope and portraying his case as one individual's struggle against high finance. French judges have required him to report to a French police station by Sunday evening to start serving his sentence, which was confirmed by France's highest appeals court in March. "I am staying here for now, waiting for the President to respond," Kerviel told reporters in the Italian town of Ventimiglia, close to the French border. He said he was not guilty and that his criminal conviction was unfair. French prosecutors said that if Kerviel did not show up at the southern French police station of Menton by midnight, he would be considered as on the run and France would issue a European arrest warrant to ensure he serves his sentence. The warrant would be issued this week and would require Italian authorities to hand him over to France, a judicial source said. Speaking to a crowd of TV reporters following him throughout the weekend, Kerviel called for President Hollande to give immunity to the unnamed witnesses he said would be willing to testify in his favor. Kerviel's lawyer, David Koubbi, said he would be returning to Paris later in the day in the hope of meeting the president. Kerviel has never denied masking his 50-billion-euro ($68.52 billion) positions but has accused his bosses of knowing what he was doing. The courts, however, have each time backed SocGen's insistence that the trader acted alone. France's highest appeal court upheld his three-year jail term in March but it quashed the 4.9-billion-euro civil damages designed to compensate SocGen for its losses when it unwound the trader's mammoth positions in the midst of the financial crisis. The French president's office said in a statement on Saturday evening that if Kerviel asked for presidential grace, his request would be examined according to usual procedures. Kerviel rebuffed the offer: "Asking for grace is admitting you're guilty, something I've been fighting for six years. I'm not guilty. And I will never get down on my knees in front of such an unfair ruling," he said. In an emailed statement on Saturday, a spokesman for Societe Generale criticized the media hype around Kerviel, stressing he had been subject to a meticulous investigation, judged three times and found guilty each time. ($1 = 0.7297 Euros) (Reporting by Chine Labbe and Natalie Huet; Editing by Stephen Powell) FREE AppDownload
Congratulations, Class of 2014! Unfortunately, you are graduating into one of the hardest moments ever for young workers. Here's a rundown of where you are and of some of the challenges ahead of you. College has been getting more expensive. Here's a chart, based on data from the College Board, showing how tuition and fees, in inflation-adjusted 2013 dollars, have dramatically increased over the last decade: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from The College Board For the 2003-04 academic year, these costs were $5,900 for a year, and in the 2013-14 year, they were $8,893. This represents about a 51% total increase over that decade, or an average annual real growth rate of about 4.2%. As a result of rising tuition, student loans have been growing dramatically as well, as can be seen in this chart from a 2013 New York Federal Reserve presentation on student debt: New York Fed Many young adults have trouble paying back this debt.  FRBNY Consumer Credit Panel/Equifax In recent years, 25- and 30-year-olds with no student debt have had much higher credit scores than their peers who do have debt, as this chart from the New York Fed's Liberty Street Economics blog shows: New York Fed How are college graduates doing in the job market? A recent study by the liberal think tank Economic Policy Institute takes a look at labor market conditions for young people and recent college graduates. Disregarding education levels, young workers have historically had higher unemployment than workers as a whole, regardless of the overall state of the economy. That means that the overall weak labor market of recent years has hit young adults especially hard: Economic Policy Institute Over the last 45 years, workers under 25 have had about double the unemployment rate of all workers. The unemployment rate just captures people who are actively looking for work. It is also worth looking at discouraged or missing workers: people who want a job, but have given up looking because they believe there are no jobs out there for them. This chart compares youth unemployment to unemployment with the discouraged workers added in: Economic Policy Institute While young adult unemployment and the number of discouraged young workers have been improving, it's been a very slow process. While young college graduates have a lower unemployment rate than all young people, the labor market situation has gotten worse for them over the last few years: Economic Policy Institute In addition to higher levels of unemployment than those seen in the past, young college grads face higher levels of underemployment, a measure combining unemployed workers, discouraged workers who have given up looking for work, and people who have part-time jobs but want full-time work and can't find it.  Young workers who do get a job have seen stagnant wages in the 2000s, and a decline since the recession: Economic Policy Institute College graduates who do find work are frequently taking jobs where they aren't using their degrees. The New York Federal Reserve published another study analyzing what kinds of jobs are taken by recent college graduates. They defined underemployment as having at least a bachelor's degree, but being in a job that may not require a four-year degree. The authors of the study found that, while it's somewhat normal for recent graduates to take a few years to fully enter the job market, the rate of recent college graduates with non-degree-requiring jobs is higher in recent years than in the 1990 or 2000: New York Federal Reserve As a result of all this labor market strife and uncertainty, young people are more likely to move back home in their early to mid 20s. We recently posted this chart from John Burns Real Estate Consulting showing the share of households with at least one child living at home in their late 20s or early 30s has risen in the aftermath of the recession: John Burns Real Estate Consulting FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlo AllegriLately, various housing-market metrics such as existing-home sales, new-home sales, and mortgage applications have all been flagging. We also recently learned that the U.S. homeownership rate was at a 19-year low, and some experts think it'll never come back. There's little doubt that the unusually harsh winter weather and last summer's mortgage rate spike are partly to blame for the recent weakness. As such, Goldman Sachs' Sven Jari Stehn and David Mericle expect a "rebound in the short term." But in a new research note to clients, the economists go ahead and cut their outlook for housing investment and GDP forecast. From their note: We see a number of reasons, however, for a somewhat less upbeat view of the underlying trend in housing activity. First, our analysis ... suggests that housing activity received a significant boost from falling mortgage rates between mid-2011 and mid-2013. On average, our model suggests that declining mortgage rates boosted growth in residential investment by almost 5 percentage points during this time. As this tailwind dissipates going forward, the trend in housing activity might be somewhat lower than previously assumed. Second, mortgage credit availability remains tight. The latest Fed Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey indicates that banks have slightly tightened mortgage lending standards this year, despite rising house prices and very low levels of mortgage defaults (Exhibit 5). Likewise, the average credit score on mortgages used to purchase homes has only edged down slightly over the past year. Finally, recent data raise questions about the strength of the recovery in household formation. While the annual data on household formation from the Current Population Survey point to a solid gain in 2013, the monthly household formation numbers from the Housing Vacancy Survey show a weaker recent trend. Perhaps the most surprising of the three points is the second point. Indeed, we've heard plenty recently about how lending standards have loosened and credit scores for borrowers have fallen. But relative to the early 2000s, things are still very tight. Goldman Sachs This is not to say that banks "should" loosen standards to the levels that inflated housing bubble. All it says is that banks "aren't" lending like they once did. "Given these headwinds, we are trimming our forecast for residential investment from 13% to 7.5% and from 12.5% to 10% in 2014H2 and 2015H1, respectively," wrote Stehn and Mericle. "As a result we are shaving our forecast for real GDP growth by 1/4 percentage point to 31/4% in 2014H2." FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Nick HarrisNEW YORK (Reuters) - Interpreting Federal Reserve policy is hard enough, but the central bank may need to dust off its 'How to' guide to explain the nuts and bolts of new tools it will use when it finally starts to raise interest rates. Traders and analysts in the past were accustomed to just glancing at the traditional federal funds rate. But managing that rate was easier when the banking system had about $800 billion in excess cash. With $2.5 trillion in reserves, the Fed's ability to control that rate is much harder. The Fed has to look elsewhere to mop up reserves easily without causing dislocations. Now it has the TDF, RRP and IOER. Or rather, the term deposit facility, reverse repurchase agreements and interest on excess reserves - the three other programs that the Fed has signaled it will use when it attempts to normalize interest rates. If successful, the combination of all three, along with how the Fed controls the fed funds rate, will usher in a new policy regime instead of the ultra-loose one it has clung to for the last five years. But if this confuses investors, analysts fear the Fed could lose credibility and harm markets and the economy. "The Fed is fumbling and working its way through it," said Eric Green, global head of rates and currency research at TD Securities in New York. Most U.S. short-term market rates have been stuck in the single-digit to high-teen basis-point range since the Fed adopted its near-zero rate policy in December 2008. The daily fed funds rate has averaged anywhere from 0.06 percent to 0.25 percent since January 2009, Fed data show. That hasn't mattered, because the Fed had no intention of moving rates during this extraordinary period of monetary policy. "Right now, they don't have an issue. They are just setting a range for the fed funds rate and how it moves around doesn't matter to them. But as they exit, they might want to have more precise control of the market," said Ethan Harris, chief economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in New York. The Fed in the past raised the overnight fed funds rate market by borrowing anywhere from $2 billion to $4 billion daily from top-tier Wall Street firms. "They will pull multiple triggers to get what they want in terms of short-term interest rates," Harris said. To make sure short-term rates hold up as it tightens, the Fed has ramped up testing of its "alphabet soup" programs. Starting this week, it will offer banks seven-day term deposits, which bear interest rates higher than 0.25 percent, the top end of its policy rate range. These loans are a longer-term program to keep cash out of the banking system than the traditionally used overnight tools like the fed funds market. This will help the Fed sop up excess bank reserves, which analysts say is necessary because of the sheer volume of reserves and because longer-term tools cause less short-term disruptions in rates markets. "This is an additional tool, but this doesn't mean the Fed is out of the woods," said TD's Green. The IOER, which is currently at 0.25 percent, offers banks income on excess reserves held at the Fed. The effectiveness of this program has been mitigated somewhat by the bank needing to hold capital against those reserves. Arguably, the most critical tool are RRPs or reverse repos. These are geared to attract cash from money-market mutual funds and government mortgage finance agencies, which are not eligible for IOER and TDF and yet hold substantial cash. The Fed has been paying 0.05 percent on its RRPs. Money funds have $2.6 trillion in assets. Mortgage agency Fannie Mae had $14.1 billion in cash and $12.8 billion in fed funds and repos with banks at the end of March, while its sibling Freddie Mac held $10.6 billion in cash and $24.5 billion in repos. Compared with the TDF, the reverse repo facility is a veteran of Fed operations. The Fed started talking about such a tool in July 2013, and is now using it regularly to drain excess cash from the banking system. But with the mountainous task of "normalizing" policy, the Fed might need to rummage through its cabinets for even more tools. (Reporting by Richard Leong; Editing by Dan Grebler) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFile photo of some of the products of WH Group displayed at a news conference on the company's IPO in Hong KongHONG KONG (Reuters) - China's biggest buyout firm, CDH Investments, is known as "The Blackstone of China" for its savvy deal making and spread of businesses, but last month's pulled IPO of pork producer WH Group Ltd is a setback to its global ambitions. The deal thrust a spotlight on CDH, which first invested in WH Group in 2006, and exposed its limited experience in handling big IPO exits from its investments in a global financial center. "If we believe Chinese private equity is going to rival the Carlyles and the Blackstones &lt;BX.N&gt;, they need to clearly be able to demonstrate they can do deals - and successful deals," said Fraser Howie, co-author of "Red Capitalism". "Not just a deal, but have a pattern of operating successfully in a number of different fields, and frankly, no Chinese company in any industry has shown its ability to do that yet," Howie added. The original $5.3 billion IPO by WH Group would have been the biggest for a private equity backed company in Asia. Only Carlyle Group &lt;CG.O&gt; has completed a similar recent IPO in the region, with its $3.1 billion IPO for China Pacific Insurance Group &lt;601601.SS&gt;. GLOBAL ASPIRATIONS CDH won kudos for engineering WH Group's $4.9 billion purchase of Smithfield Foods Inc &lt;SFII.UL&gt;, the largest acquisition of a U.S. company by a China firm, and Wu Shangzhi, its co-founder, a former World Bank banker and an elder statesman of China private equity, suggested China's economic power would lead to more such deals. "The competitive advantage certainly now is pointing to a different direction. There is a compelling reason for the transaction, there are going to be more of these happening," Wu said in a speech in Hong Kong. CDH, along with peers including CITIC Capital and Hony Capital, is among a number of China firms eyeing global deals to distinguish themselves from domestic competitors as they vie for investor dollars. CDH, which has offices in Singapore and Jakarta and investments in Japan and Vietnam, teamed up with global private equity firm TPG Capital &lt;TPG.UL&gt; on a bid to de-list a company in the U.S. It has recently been eyeing U.S. capital markets as a source of funds, bankers said, underscoring its aspirations to grow beyond its home market. A successful WH Group exit would have cemented CDH's position, but the drawn-out collapse of the deal, mired in bad luck and blunders, generated a slew of negative headlines, and meant investors including CDH, Temasek Holdings &lt;TEM.UL&gt; and Goldman Sachs &lt;GS.N&gt; missed raising $1.8 billion. CDH had offered a stake of nearly $660 million. "It would undoubtedly have been a boost for CDH, as they invested into WH Group from at least three of their funds," said one investor in the private equity firm's funds. CDH declined to comment for this article. Sources involved with the IPO told Reuters that CDH played an aggressive role in pricing the deal, even though it only held 34 percent of WH Group. "Why would somebody who's a butcher know the valuation better than CDH?" said a second investor. INVESTOR RETURNS The second and third letters in CDH's name stand for "Ding Hui", meaning "balance" and "potential". Beijing-based CDH was spun out of powerful investment bank China Investment Capital Corp (CICC) in 2002. CICC is run by Levin Zhu, the son of China's former vice-premier Zhu Rongji. In China, CDH has branched into venture capital, real estate, credit and public markets investing, prompting the comparisons with U.S. giant Blackstone Group, the world's biggest private equity firm, which pioneered the strategy of diversifying into multiple investment areas. CDH raised only $102 million for its first standalone fund, but quickly found its way into a series of successful China deals, including stakes in sportswear company Li Ning Co Ltd &lt;2331.HK&gt;, display advertising firm Focus Media &lt;IPO-FOCM.HK&gt; and China Mengniu Dairy &lt;2319.HK&gt;, according to Thomson Reuters data. That first fund returned around 3.5 times its investors' money, according to data seen by Reuters, making it one of the top performing funds in China, and enabling it to raise capital for a series of bigger funds. Along the way, CDH and Goldman invested $256 million in a controlling stake in a struggling meat producer, then known as Shuanghui Group. That buyout deal, one of the first of its kind in China, sparked controversy as opponents claimed the country was selling assets too cheaply to foreign investors. Goldman sold half its stake back to CDH in 2009 for five times what it originally paid. "One of the primary problems Chinese companies face is that they are used to doing things a certain way in China, which is based on who you know, and who you trust," said Howie. "When you go overseas, the need for transparency and an honest assessment is higher, and they're bad at translating that." Howie pointed to the $600 million paid out to two WH Group executives and the hiring of 29 bookrunners for the IPO as fundamental mistakes. "It's a case study in how not to do something," he said. CDH's successes attracted big name investors into its funds, including California Public Employees' Retirement System and Canada Pension Plan Investment Board. So much so that 75 percent of CDH's private equity funds now come from international investors. In January, CDH closed its fifth fund at $2.55 billion, nearly 25 times the size of its debut 2002 fund, underscoring the strong growth it has notched since inception. Despite famously losing its head of venture capital, who ran away with his mistress, CDH's co-founders, Wu, Stuart Schonberger, who earned his B.A. from U.S. liberal arts school Wesleyan University, and dealmaker Jiao Zhen, are still together at the firm. But recent funds have not matched earlier performance. The firm has been on a drive to return more money to its investors by exiting its investments, as Wu noted in his speech. While CDH's 2002 fund is a top quartile fund, its 2010 fund has so far returned just over 1 times investors' money, and is in the bottom 25 percent of funds, according to data seen by Reuters. (Editing by Denny Thomas and Ian Geoghegan) FREE AppDownload
