On December 22nd the Russian Central Bank (RCB) announced that it would provide a bail-out of up to Rb30bn (US$500m) to prevent the bankruptcy of Trust Bank, a mid-sized Russian lender. Its Deposit Insurance Agency will take over interim administration of the bank. The move underlines the growing pressures faced by the banking system as a result of the weakening rouble, international sanctions, the ailing economy and a sharp tightening of monetary policy. Bank profitability and asset quality are likely to deteriorate significantly in 2015. With banks unable to access external financing or to roll over existing foreign debts, capital-adequacy levels are also set to fall. It is likely that the Central Bank and the Ministry of Finance will be forced to provide additional capital to support the banking sector. Further bank failures are likely, but the authorities retain substantial resources to support systemically important financial institutions. Even before the latest crisis, Russia's banking sector indicators had been weakening. In June 2014 total banking profits were down by 14% year on year, with more than 25% of Russia's banks recording a loss in that month, compared with 18% a year earlier. Capital adequacy stood at 13% in August, down from 13.5% at the start of the year; by the end of the third quarter this had slipped to 12.6%, according to RCB data. The share of non-performing loans was rising: overdue unsecured consumer debt rose by 2 percentage points between April and September 2014, to 11.3%. Since August, the risks to the banking sector have increased substantially as a result of three factors: the imposition of international sanctions, the worsening economic outlook and the rapid depreciation of the rouble. In August and September the EU and US imposed sanctions on leading state-owned Russian banks in response to Russia's role in the conflict in eastern Ukraine and the downing of a Malaysian passenger aircraft. The measures prevent the banks-including the country's largest lenders, Sberbank and VTB-from accessing anything but debt with a maturity under 30 days. Although only state-owned banks are formally subject to the sanctions, borrowing costs will have risen for all financial institutions as foreign investors price political and economic risk significantly higher. REUTERS/Maxim ZmeyevRussian President Vladimir Putin speaks during his annual end-of-year news conference in Moscow, December 18, 2014. The rouble edged lower against the dollar on Thursday, with traders saying President Vladimir Putin had offered few concrete measures at his end-of-year news conference to pull Russia out of a crisis.   Comparisons of Russia's debt-payment schedule and debt stock between the second and third quarters of 2014 suggest that almost no new foreign debt was issued to Russian companies over this period. The sanctions have effectively cut off the banking system from wholesale financing on international markets, and are also forcing banks to redeem outstanding foreign debt as it comes due, rather than rolling it over, thus increasing their foreign-currency liabilities. The affected banks brushed off the sanctions, suggesting they would have little impact on their operations. Nevertheless, indications quickly emerged that these measures had put their balance sheets under strain. On August 25th the government announced that it would acquire shares in VTB and Rosselkhozbank in exchange for outstanding debt of Rb239bn (US$6.6bn at the exchange rate at the time) owed to the National Welfare Fund (NWF), one of the country's sovereign wealth funds. The move was intended to strengthen the two banks' tier-one capital (a measure of their financial state). Nevertheless, the significance of the sanctions for Russian banks' financing position should not be overstated. The banking sector's total external debt at the end of the third quarter stood at US$192bn, which was equivalent to around 22% of total domestic claims, based on the exchange rate at the end of October. In addition, the Russian banking sector as a whole has a positive net foreign-asset position. Domestically, the measures did not appear to have a material impact on the sanctioned banks' standing, and there was no evidence of depositor flight from the affected institutions. However, the pressure on the banking sector has increased significantly as the result of the devaluation of the rouble since June, which has been driven by high political risk, international sanctions (which have blocked capital inflows) and the falling oil price. Between June and November the rouble fell by 25% against the dollar. This has pushed up the cost of foreign debt service for the banking sector, and also increased the risk of default on foreign-currency-denominated debt issued by the banks. Société GénéraleRussia real effective exchange rate vs Brazil, Korea. In October 2014 (the most recent data available), loans issued by banks in foreign currency accounted for around 23% of the total loan stock. This share will have risen significantly in November and December as a result of the further devaluation of the rouble, to around 30% of the total loan stock. However, the risk of default is mitigated by the fact that a significant share of these corporate loans will have been to natural resource companies, whose revenue is earned in foreign currency, limiting their exposure to exchange-rate risk. In contrast to some east European countries such as Hungary, the share of personal loans issued in foreign currency is low, at less than 2% of the total. Exchange-rate pressures on capital levels, external liabilities and asset quality escalated sharply in late November and early December, when the rouble began to fall precipitously against the dollar, raising the risk of a full-blown currency crisis. Following a fall of more than 10% in the rouble on December 15th (the currency's biggest one-day fall since the crisis of 1998), the RCB raised its key policy rate by 650 basis points, to 17%, in an effort to stabilise the currency. Far from calming sentiment, the move appears to have panicked the market. After early gains, the currency fell by more than 35% to a low of Rb79:US$1, before recovering to around Rb68:US$1, down around 15% from the start of the day. For the first time there were indications that the fall in the rouble had spooked consumers, raising the risk of large-scale deposit flight. The rouble has subsequently recovered against the dollar and was trading at around Rb54:US$1 on December 23rd. It is unclear, however, to what extent this is due to foreign-exchange intervention by the authorities and to administrative pressure. On December 17th the Ministry of Finance announced that it would sell up to US$7bn of foreign currency to support the rouble, which it described as "extremely undervalued". REUTERS / Grigory DukorA retired Russian man counts his pre-1993 money in local bank July 26, 1993.On December 23rd Kommersant, a business daily, reported that major state-owned exporting firms had been instructed to sell foreign currency in order to support the rouble. These claims have been contested by the government. With confidence in the rouble and the RCB low, it may only take a small shift in sentiment-most likely from another fall in the oil price-to trigger another round of currency volatility. The rouble rout has further exacerbated exchange-rate pressures on banks and has also severely damaged confidence in the financial sector. In the days following the RCB interest-rate increase, the interbank lending rate rose to almost 30%-significantly above the peak reached in the 2008-09 financial crisis. The rise in interest rates will squeeze liquidity and severely limit interbank lending, increasing banks' dependence on the RCB. This will be compounded by high levels of economic uncertainty and concerns over rouble deposit flight. High interest rates will lead to a sharp drop in new lending, reducing bank profitability and increasing the risk of default for borrowers on variable rates or those who need to refinance existing loans. Vedomosti, another business daily, reported on December 22nd that Sberbank, the country's biggest lender, had increased its mortgage rate by 2-3 percentage points to 15-16%-a rate which the Agency for Residential Mortgage Lending describes as a psychological tipping point for borrowers. In addition to high financing costs and increased exchange-rate risks, banks will have to manage the impact of a serious recession in 2015. The Economist Intelligence Unit now forecasts that the economy will contract by 3.5% next year, with high inflation leading to a fall in earnings of more than 5% in real terms. This will lead to a rise in corporate defaults and non-performing loans, putting further pressure on banks' asset quality and balance sheets. Evidence is building that the banking system is experiencing severe stress and facing significant capital shortfalls. On December 19th the Duma (parliament) passed a bill, following three readings in one day, to provide Rb1trn (US$16.5bn) to recapitalise the banking system. Prior to this, on December 4th, Vladimir Putin, the president, had committed up to 10% of National Welfare Fund assets (which totalled around US$80bn at the start of December) for the same purpose. At present it remains unclear how the recapitalisation will be conducted, what form the capital will take or what collateral the banks will provide in return. Mr Putin has also hinted that the banks may be required to increase lending to priority sectors in exchange for government support. With access to international markets closed, banks have had to rely heavily on the RCB for foreign-currency liquidity to meet external commitments. The RCB has steadily amended its repo auction programme, by extending the maturity of the loans and reducing the interest rate, to make it easier for banks to access foreign currency. On December 11th the RCB announced that it was expanding the range of assets that it would accept as collateral to provide foreign-currency liquidity, offering further evidence that the banks are undercapitalised and struggling to meet their foreign-currency obligations. The Central Bank has currently set a limit of US$50bn on the total loans and repurchase agreements it will provide to the banking sector. In a statement on December 24th, the RCB confirmed that this limit could be increased if necessary. The burden of financial risk is thus being shifted gradually from the banks and their debtors to the state. The RCB has also sought to relieve the pressure on the banks by relaxing its prudential regulations and effectively suspending mark-to-market accounting to assess banks' capital adequacy. On December 18th the Central Bank announced that it would introduce a "temporary moratorium" on the recognition of the negative revaluation of securities portfolios. It also granted credit institutions a temporary right to use the third-quarter exchange rate to assess its prudential requirements for operations in foreign currencies. This move will provide temporary succour to banks, but also increases systemic risks. It is based on the assumption that the sharp fall in the exchange rate and asset values in mid-December was a temporary phenomenon, which was not driven by market fundamentals, and that the banks therefore face a problem of liquidity rather than solvency. It is unclear how the RCB will act if the exchange rate continues to fall or when it plans to lift these temporary measures. On December 19th Evgeny Gavrilenkov, chief economist of Sberbank CIB, the investment banking arm of Sberbank, warned that the RCB's willingness to provide refinancing for banks against non-marketable securities could cause a full-scale banking crisis. We continue to believe that the authorities have the resources to support all of the country's systemic banks to prevent a financial crisis, particularly as almost all of these are already state-controlled. Although the authorities may be using some administrative means to support the currency, the rouble is now effectively floating free, which should enable the government to conserve foreign-currency reserves in order to support the banking sector in meeting its foreign-currency liabilities. Foreign-currency reserves (including assets in the sovereign wealth funds) total more than US$400bn, equivalent to over 60% of the M2 money supply. Under our current forecast, oil prices will average US$80/barrel in 2015, significantly above the current price level, which should help to stabilise the rouble despite ongoing capital outflows to redeem foreign debt. Nevertheless, the combination of economic contraction, a liquidity crunch and the falling exchange rate is likely to lead to the failure of a number of banks. Russia has more than 800 banks, many them with low capitalisation, weak finances and weak corporate oversight. As of December, the RCB had withdrawn licences from more than 80 banks in 2014 alone. While the sector is in need of consolidation, however, the disorderly failure of a large number of banks could cause significant economic disruption, deepening the recession and further undermining public confidence in the financial sector. Trust Bank is unlikely to be the last institution to receive a Central Bank bail-out. Click here to subscribe to The Economist.     FREE AppDownload
Moscow (AFP) - When Olga Savelyeva took out a $226,000 mortgage to buy a small apartment on the outskirts of Moscow in 2008, she could never have imagined that the ruble would lose more than half its value in a few short years. But Savelyeva's $2,090 monthly instalments have skyrocketed in ruble terms due to the Russian currency's dive against the dollar. The resulting jump in monthly payments from 49,000 to 115,000 rubles now devours most of her family's income. The 30-year-old mother of a young daughter and her husband have tried to honour their repayment commitments but despite their best efforts, December's instalment was $400 short.  "We're left with 3,000 rubles ($56) this month," Savelyeva told AFP. "We won't be able to make the January payment in full... "We also have other obligations," she added, referring to her retired mother and cancer-stricken father. Savelyeva is one of tens of thousands of Russians who took on lower-interest foreign currency-denominated mortgages in the years before the financial crisis and now struggle with repayments as the ruble's value shrinks. Russia's central bank says that as of November 1, foreign exchange mortgage debt totalled 120.5 billion rubles ($2.28 billion). According to the state-run Agency for Housing Mortgage Lending, those loans represent 3.3 percent of the total volume of outstanding mortgage debt. Critics say the government is deliberately downplaying the scope of the problem and claim some 100,000 to 150,000 people are likely affected. Hundreds of Russia's hard-currency mortgage holders have created a social media group, attracting members from Yekaterinburg in the Urals to the exclave of Kaliningrad on the Baltic Sea. In a letter to central bank chief Elvira Nabiullina, the group threatened a "powerful social explosion" if assistance isn't provided. Some 100 homeowners picketed the central bank this month and around 500 people plan to take to the streets this week, the first significant protests over the collapse of Russia's currency -- down some 40 percent against the greenback this year. With Russia's mortgage industry still in its formative phase, taking out a loan to buy a home is considered risky business. Even before the crisis, interest rates of 10 to 12 percent on foreign currency loans -- and 12 to 14 percent on ruble-denominated mortgages -- mean many Russians will wind up paying double to triple the principal borrowed on 15- to 20-year loans. The group of foreign currency mortgage holders says Russia's financial crisis, exacerbated by falling oil prices and Western sanctions over Ukraine, has transformed their loans into "financial slavery". To make matters worse, interest rates are expected to rise further still in the wake of the central bank's decision this month to hike its key rate to 17 from 10.5 percent to prop up the ruble. "Why have ordinary borrowers been left alone with their misfortune?" asked members of the social media group in their letter to the central bank. They said some of them have "ended up out on the streets" and warned they would be ready to go on hunger strike if no solutions were found. A representative of the Bank of Russia said it had repeatedly warned clients of the risks associated with dollar-denominated mortgages. The bank added that "a restructuring of such loans, including converting them into rubles at a reasonable exchange rate, would be in the interests of both borrowers and banks". Zoya Kuliyeva, who borrowed $120,000 to buy a Soviet-era apartment in Moscow in 2008, said banks have so far refused to come up with an acceptable solution. The bank has offered to extend her loan until she turns 70. "It means my children and grandchildren will be paying it off," Kuliyeva, chief accountant at a Russian firm, told AFP. Economist Yevgeny Gontmakher said the collapse of the ruble was a huge blow to Russia's middle class, which includes many holders of foreign-currency loans.  "It's a catastrophe for them," said Gontmakher, deputy director of the Institute of World Economy and International Relations of the Russian Academy of Sciences. The government, he added, would likely pass the buck by putting pressure on the banks, which are already struggling with a liquidity squeeze. This year Hungary faced a similar scenario, with banks forced to convert foreign currency debt into forints to bail out hundreds of thousands of borrowers. Russian lawmakers this month passed a personal bankruptcy law that will come into force next July. A legislator from A Just Russia party, Andrei Krutov, suggested that foreign currency-denominated loans be banned altogether. Krutov also said the state should bail out holders of those mortgages by allowing them to pay off loans at pre-crisis exchange rates. "They won't be able to get by without state support," he told AFP, adding that he was preparing legislative initiatives to that end.  But Kuliyeva said such assurances offered little consolation. "I am just trying not to follow the dollar exchange rate," she said. "It's very scary, it's depressing."   FREE AppDownload
Dramatic video captured a monkey reviving another monkey, which had fallen unconscious on the rail tracks of a train station in India after being electrocuted on Saturday, Dec. 20. The incident was watched by travelers at the station, some of which were filming and taking pictures of the monkeys. Produced by Devan Joseph. Video courtesy of Associated Press. Follow BI Video: On Twitter  
(Reuters) - Wall Street was generally calmer in 2014 than in previous years, but that doesn't mean the stock market was devoid of drama. Big selloffs in biotechnology and social media stocks had strategists predicting doom in the spring, and the plunge in oil prices has clouded the outlook for the coming year. It was a year when Cynk Technology, a development-stage company with no revenue, was briefly worth $6 billion, and when a long-forgotten closed-end fund focused on Cuba - the Herzfeld Caribbean Basin Fund - saw more trading in one day in December than it had in six years. With that in mind, Reuters asked Wall Street strategists a few questions on odd things to watch for in 2015.  With its gains on Friday, the Nasdaq Composite Index sits just about 200 points shy of the vaunted 5,000 level, which it has not seen in nearly 15 years - and its all-time intraday high of 5,132.52 reached on March 10, 2000, isn't far off. "I think Nasdaq will test and probably achieve higher highs than we did in 2000 because I think we're in a secular bull market that has another eight to 10 years left to run," said Jeffrey Saut, managing director at Raymond James &amp; Associates. For the Nasdaq to hit 5,000, it would take a gain of 4 percent. And to get to that all-time high, it would take about a 7 percent increase. Whether that's warranted is something over which investors disagree. "What we need now is for fundamentals like revenue and earnings to catch up with current valuations," said Jack Ablin, chief investment officer at BMO Private Bank in Chicago. After a series of market-crippling operational glitches in recent years, found everywhere from Nasdaq to options markets, investors are bracing for more such events. This year, a gold-mining exchange-traded fund, Market Vectors Gold Miners ETF, dove 10 percent in the waning seconds of trading one day in early December. Earlier in the year, high-frequency trading firm Virtu Financial canceled an initial public offering after the release of Michael Lewis' book "Flash Boys" brought negative publicity to computerized trading. None of these incidents were as damaging as the May 2010 "flash crash." The most notable in 2014 came out of the bond market in mid-October, when 10-year Treasuries yields crashed more than 0.3 percentage point without warning. "There definitely will be an event. At least one, probably more," said Joe Saluzzi, co-manager of trading at Themis Trading in Chatham, New Jersey. "Investors want a lower cost. In return for the lower costs they think they're getting there are also risks, and the risks usually involve technology. Lots of times they leave black eyes." "Whenever you have all these systems talking to each other problems happen. They're tested robustly but not for every boundary condition," said Forrest of Fort Pitt Capital.  Investors worry that biotech stocks will have a tougher start to the year after pharmacy benefits manager Express Scripts dealt a blow to Gilead Sciences Inc on Dec. 22 when it dropped coverage of Gilead's hepatitis C treatment. Biotechs were all over the place in 2014. They were at the forefront of the selloff in momentum favorites in the spring, and hit another rough patch in December on the Gilead news. "I think biotech is pretty expensive as an asset class," said Raymond James' Saut. "But over the next three to five years the big breakthroughs are going to come from the biotech complex. I don't know about a pullback but I think there are better places to be."  Shares of Apple Inc, the most valuable publicly traded U.S. company, will finish higher for a sixth straight year. With a current market value of about $663 billion, if one were to pick a company that would be the first to hit $1 trillion in value, Apple's a safe choice - but not next year, investors said. The iWatch, its latest product, may not be enough to propel the stock further. "I don't really see this company as having another blockbuster category of products. The watch doesn't feel like a great idea. I'm kind of out of the Apple mystique thing," said Kim Forrest, vice president and senior analyst at Fort Pitt Capital Group in Pittsburgh. (Reporting by Sinead Carew; Writing by David Gaffen; Editing by Leslie Adler) FREE AppDownload
Yahoo FinanceGPRO is up 120% in 6 months.GoPro is surged 4.2% to close at $69.23 on Friday. That's a whopping 29% just this week. On Friday, Amazon.com highlighted the GoPro HERO4 SILVER, headstrap mount and clip, and accessories kit among its list of holiday best sellers. GoPro is also one of the most heavily shorted stocks in the market with 41% of its equity float being shorted. So, you could also argue that the stock is experiencing a short squeeze. This means traders shorting, or betting against, the stock are being forced to go out and buy shares to cover their short positions. The camera company have been all over the place since it IPO this summer. The stock got as high as $98.47 on Oct. 7. The stock IPO'd at $24 on June 26 and opened at $28.65. Meanwhile, the major US stock market indices continue to set new highs. The S&amp;P 500 closed at a record 2,088 on Friday. FREE AppDownload
Getty Images / David BanksKentucky Wildcats forward Willie Cauley-Stein (15) dunks the ball.Stocks went up again, closing at record highs. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories: 1. Once again, the US stock market achieved new records. The S&amp;P 500 set an intraday high of 2,092.70 and the Dow set an intraday high of 18,103.45. There were no major market-moving economic reports on the calendar today. 2. Holiday sales were strong. According to MasterCard Advisors SpendingPulse, retail sales during Black Friday through Christmas Eve were up 5.5% this year. According to ChannelAdvsior via Bloomberg, online sales jumped 14% from November 27 to December 21. According to IBM via Bloomberg, online spending on Christmas Day jumped 8.3%. 3. Amazon.com Prime service is booming. "We are excited to welcome more than ten million new members to Amazon Prime this holiday season, who benefited from unlimited Free Two-Day Shipping on their holiday gifts," CEO Jeff Bezos said. AMZN shares gained 2%. 4. GoPro shares surged 4%. Amazon.com highlighted the GoPro HERO4 SILVER, headstrap mount and clip, and accessories kit among its list of holiday best sellers. Don't Miss: The Top 10 Things We Learned About The Economy And Markets In 2014 » FREE AppDownload
A fight erupted between ruling and opposition lawmakers in the Georgian parliament on Friday, Dec. 26. The brawl broke out when an argument over the composition of Georgian delegations in international institutions turned violent. Produced by Devan Joseph. Video courtesy of Associated Press. Follow BI Video: On Twitter
via Robb ReportThe G650 ERSpeed and range are key parameters for those who use business jets, and the new Gulfstream G650ER, which first reached customers ahead of schedule in mid-November, aims to deliver on both. Among the new breed of large-cabin ultralong-range business jets, the extended-range version of the top-of-the-line Gulfstream G650 can carry an extra 4,000 pounds of fuel, thanks to an advanced fuel-quantity monitoring system and other upgrades, increasing the range by 575 miles—enough to cruise 8,600 miles, connecting New York to Hong Kong nonstop or Los Angeles to Melbourne, Australia. The jet can cruise at nearly 600 mph (Mach 0.85). Its nearly 47-foot-long cabin carries over from the G650, with plenty of space for up to 18 passengers. via Robb ReportAmenities include 16 extra-large oval windows, 100 percent fresh air refreshed every two minutes, and a low maximum cabin altitude of about 4,000 feet. Owners can choose from 12 floor plans or create their own custom layout. via Robb ReportGulfstream will continue to sell the original G650, which has been flying since 2012. Current owners of the G650 can have their jets converted to the G650ER at a cost of about $2 million. The G650ER will compete with Bombardier’s Global 8000, expected to start deliveries in 2017, which will have a maximum range over 9,000 miles. The G650ER sells for a starting price of $66.5 million. FREE AppDownload
"Advanced drilling and hydraulic fracturing technologies, especially since 2008, have enabled large-scale oil and gas production in lower-permeability rock such as shale," the EIA writes. "Tight oil and shale gas plays span much of the continental United States and include both new and well-established oil and gas drilling locations." Indeed, the American shale boom has been a source of excitement as it has been a source of new jobs, economic growth, and energy independence. But with oil and gas prices crashing, many of these shale plays have become uneconomical, stoking fears of fiscal and economic problems in energy-driven states like Texas, North Dakota and Alaska. For reference, here's where the major shale plays are across the continental US. EIA FREE AppDownload
Key-Venutres, Inc.An apartment in New York's Plaza Hotel has hit the market for an insane asking price. Florida-based philanthropist and retired insurance tycoon Barry Kaye and his wife Carol Kaye have discounted their sprawling apartment at New York's Plaza Hotel by 30%, Curbed reports. The third-floor apartment had been listed for a whopping $49.5 million in August. The current price is a relatively paltry $35 million.  The 3,412-square-foot pad has three bedrooms, two master bathrooms, access to the Plaza's spa and gym, and views of Central Park in every room. The apartment was built from two former state rooms, which the Kayes bought in 2008 for $13.6 million.
aldenjewell / FlickrThe word "subprime" sends chills down the spines of anyone who lost money during the financial crisis. A couple years ago, mortgage loans to subprime borrowers – those are the people with the worst credit scores – helped churn housing market activity, which drove up home prices and perpetuated a mortgage-fueled credit bubble. That bubble eventually burst causing the credit markets to seize up. And when the credit markets seized up, even healthy businesses were unable to secure needed financing. Recession ensued, jobs were lost, and the government bailouts came to the rescue. So when we read that subprime auto loans are on the rise, should we be freaked out? Well, the rise in subprime loans have been cited as explaining some of the marginal growth in auto sales. And the high interest costs seem to be a source of grief for borrowers. However, economists seem to agree broadly that the next financial crisis will not be caused by subprime auto loans. "While the word “subprime” often raises eyebrows these days, the auto market is notably different from housing," Bank of America Merrill Lynch's Michael Hanson said in an October note to clients. Citing household debt data from the New York Fed, Hanson highlighted the fact that auto loans as a whole is just a fraction of the size of the mortgage debt out there.  Through Q3 of this year, auto loans represented just 8% of the $11.71 trillion of total household debt outstanding. Mortgages represented 69%. NY Fed And of that, around 20% represent subprime auto loans. This share has been relatively steady for years. Deutsche Bank Taken together, we can see that subprime auto loans represent a small part of what is already a small part of the debt out there. Still not convinced? Keep in mind that a car is not a house. There are a mountain of differences that separate the two. Hanson explains (emphasis ours): ...The fact that vehicles are much easier to repossess than, say, houses are to foreclose makes the systemic risks from an over- extension of subprime auto lending much smaller than what was seen during the fallout from subprime lending during the housing crisis. Autos are much more liquid than houses, particularly now when the auto sector is strong whereas housing is still in the midst of a gradual recovery. And since most of the subprime lending is for used cars that have already depreciated, the lender faces less risk of having to sell the recovered asset at a substantially lower price — another important difference versus the housing market, where foreclosed properties often would only sell at significant discounts. Not only is the subprime auto market rather different than the subprime housing market from the lender’s side, but the borrower’s situation is also different. Outside of a very small share of the market, car buyers are not speculating on price or expecting their asset to appreciate significantly in value. Cars are understood by both lender and borrower to be depreciating assets, and loan terms are set accordingly. Borrowers also aren’t typically leveraging their cars to finance other consumption, although it is not all that uncommon for loan-to-value ratios in the auto loan sector to exceed 100%. That can happen if residual payments on a prior-owned vehicle are folded into the new loan, or if extras like insurance are added to the loan. The deeper into the subprime pool such practices extend, the greater the risks that a borrower will be unable to pay. However, some studies have found that people are more likely to be current on their auto payments than either mortgages or credit card debt once they get into payment trouble. That observation likely reflects the greater ease with which cars can be repossessed and sold, and the importance of a car to maintain employment or education. For better or worse, people tend to prioritize auto loan payments — which makes a wave of defaults somewhat less likely... According to the NY Fed's latest quarterly report on household debt and credit, delinquencies on auto loans have been on the decline. So, while subprime auto loans may be on the rises and we may hear of poor borrowers getting squeezed, we are not being pushed toward a financial crisis by these loans. FREE AppDownload
Adrian College in Michigan is offering up a new program called AdrianPlus, a loan repayment assistance initiative to pay all or part of a student’s loans if they are unable to secure a well-paying job post graduation.  Produced by Devan Joseph. Video courtesy of Associated Press. Follow BI Video: On Twitter 
Darren Aronofsky's 2010 psychological thriller, "Black Swan," portrayed an extreme version of the ballet world, depicting a notoriously competitive and high-pressure environment.   Misty Copeland, soloist for the American Ballet Theatre, says her life is nothing like the film.  Like any other professional athlete, she has a rigorous training schedule in addition to her daily performances in "The Nutcracker."  Currently, she is also preparing for her roles as Juliet in "Romeo &amp; Juliet" and Odette/Odile in "Swan Lake." Copeland gave us insight into what it takes to stay focused and how her deep appreciation for this art form has sustained her over the years.  Produced by Devan Joseph and Alana Kakoyiannis. Follow BI Video: On Twitter  
ShutterstockGift cards are probably the best kind of gift you can get. You can pick whatever you want and don't have to deal with the hassle of returning that ugly sweater your weird aunt from Florida got you. So trade in that shiny plastic for something like a drone, great headphones, or classic sunglasses. Happy holidays.  Beats headphones are classic, and everyone — from critics to users — loves them. Or since it's the winter, get yourself a nice razor that'll keep your face smooth. UNDER $50 — A hig- end razor to battle the winter beard.Philips Norelco Shaver 3500 — Price: $49.99 UNDER $100 — A TV stand that pairs well with that new flatscreen you got.Convenience Concepts TV Stand — Price: $89.99   At Walmart, you can pick up a solid pair of headphones or a great 16 megapixel camera.  And if you really want to go wild, check out that breathalyzer that attaches to your smartphone. UNDER $50 — A breathalyzer for your phone; keep yourself safe on New Year's Eve.Breathometer Smartphone Breathalyzer — Price: $49.95 UNDER $100 — Headphones to block out all the noise from your family.Monster Inspiration Noise-Isolating Over-Ear Headphones — Price: $84.99 UNDER $200 — A digital camera to capture your memories in the new year.Fujifilm Blue FinePix Digital Camera — Price: $198.92   At Macy's you can get the basics like a nice wall or classic Ray-Ban sunglasses. These both will be stylish forever. Or you can get yourself a fun watch — not the classic black or brown strapped options, but a fun shadowy gray and orange colored one. Go wild. UNDER $50 — A wallet to hold all of your other gift cards.Geoffrey Beene Leather Wallet — Price: $20.99 UNDER $100 — A nice casual watch that shows both the date and day of the week so you don't forget.Swatch Watch in Gray Silicone — Price: $70.00   Get a great audio speaker system that'll sync up with various devices. Or you can find a high-end fitness tracker that won't give off that glaringly obvious "I'm wearing a fitness tracker!" look. UNDER $50 — A cheap but powerful audio speaker system.Scosche — boomCAN 2.5 — Price: $19.45 UNDER $100 — One of the more popular wearable fitness trackers.Jawbone — UP24 Wristband — Price: $79.99 UNDER $200 — A great wireless speaker for your home or apartment.SONOS Play 1: Wireless Speaker for streaming music — Price: $199.99     A simple fitness tracker is a great way to get started on those New Year's resolutions. And the drones — well, let's not beat around the bush. They're just cool. UNDER $50 — An affordable wearable fitness tracker equipped with Bluetooth sync.Walsontop Fitness Bracelet — Price: $34.94 Disclosure: This post is brought to you by Business Insider's Insider Picks team. We aim to highlight products and services you might find interesting, and if you buy them, we may get a small share of the revenue from the sale. This is not an advertiser sponsored post and we operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback.Have something you think we should know about? Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com. FREE AppDownload
With a nickname like Sin City, Vegas is an obvious choice for revelers looking to do a little more than sit on the couch with a glass of wine and wait for midnight to roll around on New Year's Eve. In Vegas, where the beats of celebrity DJs can be heard until the early morning hours and the premium drinks of high-end bars seem to flow freely (well, actually, quite expensively), you’ll spend your New Year’s Eve like never before. So for those who want to dance on tables, pop champagne, and greet 2015 with a serious hangover -- these New Year’s Eve parties are just for you.  Oyster.com On a regular night, a line starts forming outside of Tryst’s doors at 8:30pm, even though the club doesn’t open until 10pm. Typically filled with good looking twenty-somethings ordering bottle service, Tryst is sure to drawn an equally exclusive crowd for NYE. This year, Lil Jon will be hosting, and the club’s website promises a guaranteed sell-out. Oyster.com Ring in the new year at Hyde, the Bellagio’s upscale bar that overlooks the hotel’s famous fountains. The $150 standard admission fee will grant party-goers free hors d’oeuvres from 9 to 11 p.m., and a hosted bar until midnight. Hyde’s outdoor terrace is the perfect spot for viewing Sin City’s famous NYE fireworks, and those dancing inside will get quite the view, too -- hotel heiress turned DJ, Paris Hilton, will be there, as will other celebrity guests. Oyster.comJewel-toned Vanity, with its sunken dance floor, intimate VIP booths, and outdoor terrace, is undoubtedly one of the best places in Vegas to ring in the new year. This year’s bash, dubbed The Bootleggers Ball, will be hosted by DJ Pauly D (of the Jersey Shore variety). Admission ($125 for women, $150 for men) includes a hosted bar from 9 to 11 p.m., but women will also receive free drinks at casino bars starting at 7 p.m. It may be a man's world, but sometimes it's the ladies who get the perks... Oyster.comSpend your last night of 2014 at Lavo, one of the most exclusive nightclubs in Vegas. DJ Khaled will be hosting the night’s festivities and admission ($50 for women, $75 for men) guarantees a premium open bar from 9 to 11 p.m., “heavily passed hors d’oeuvres” from 9 till midnight, exclusive access to Lavo’s outdoor terrace for the fireworks display, a champagne toast at midnight, and entry to TAO at the neighboring Venetian after midnight. Oyster.com Ready for this one? TAO, an Asian-fusion nightclub located within the Italian-themed Venetian will be throwing a Gatsby-esque,1920s-inspired affair hosted by none other than Snoop Dogg -- so it's naturally entitled "The Snoopadelic Cabaret." Guests are welcome to dress in period attire (pearls and fringe for women, dapper suits for men) and the venue will feature period-influenced entertainment acts. There will be hors d’oeuvres from 9 p.m. till midnight, and a premium open bar from 9 till 11. Admission is $75 for ladies, $125 for gents. Oyster.com The night belongs to the young and trendy at The Cosmopolitan’s posh nightclub, Marquee. Drake will be hosting the evening’s festivities, and the $150-for-men/$100-for-women admission price provides what now seems to be the standard Vegas offerings: a two-hour premium bar, three hours of “heavily passed” hors d’oeuvres, and a champagne toast to ring in the New Year. Oyster.comMacklemore and Ryan Lewis will host the New Year’s Eve bash at 1OAK this year. The club opens at 9 p.m., so be sure to get there early as standard admission (which ranges from $85 to $165) only guarantees an open bar for one hour. Throughout the night, 1OAK will be giving away prizes such as flights, hotel accommodations, and dinner at The Mirage’s STACK Restaurant &amp; Bar. Is Your Hotel On Santa's Naughty Or Nice List Party Like Celebs At These 7 Hotels What You Get In US Cities...For $200/Night  This article originally appeared at oyster.com.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia Commons/Library of CongressCorporate rivalry was darkest during the industrial revolution. If you think that the rivalry between Facebook and Google is bad, then you should hear about Thomas Edison and George Westinghouse. During the 19th century, Thomas Edison noticed that there were problems with his direct current electrical system, and enlisted Nicholas Tesla to "design a more practical form of power transmission." Tesla told Edison that "the future of electric distribution" was in alternating current rather than direct current. Edison didn't take Tesla's advice.  But he should have because at the same time, George Westinghouse introduced his own alternating current generators across the country. "By 1887, after only a year in the business, Westinghouse had already more than half as many generating stations as Edison," said Gilbert King of Smithsonian.com. Edison decided that there was only one thing to do: to prove that Westinghouse's generators were more dangerous than his own. In order to prove his claim, he held public executions — often times in front of reporters — of animals such as dogs and horses. Around this time, a dentist from Buffalo, New York named Alfred P. Southwick was hoping to develop a "more humane" method of execution than hanging, and after seeing a drunkard accidentally kill himself by touching a generator, he decided that electrocution was the best idea. He reached out to Edison for help with his contraption. Edison was publicly against capital punishment and instead directed Southwick to Westinghouse, hoping the name "death machine" would become synonymous with alternating current generators. In fact, "Westinghoused" pretty quickly became a slang term for death by electrocution. Westinghouse, naturally, did not want his generator to be associated with the death penaty, and he refused to sell his generators to public officials. As a result, New York state commissioned another man, Harold Brown, to build the first official electric chair. Despite publicly denouncing capital punishment, Edison secretly financed Harold Brown's project in order to ensure that the first electric chair would be constructed using alternating currents. Eventually, the day of the first electric chair execution came; the hapless guinea pig was a convicted murder named William Kemmler. Perhaps unsurprisingly, Southwick was ceremoniously invited to attend the event. For 17 agonzing seconds, electricity coursed through Kemmler's body, and then he was pronounced dead. And just as Arthur Southwick announced: "This is the culmination of ten years work and study. We live in a higher civilization today," everyone noticed that Kemmler was still alive. It took some time for the electric chair to rebuild its current, but when Kemmler was shocked for the second time, the current completely cooked his already damaged body. Some horrified witnesses fainted or ran out of the room from the smell of burning flesh. Others claimed to see smoke "at the top of his head". Westinghouse reportedly said: "They could have done better with an ax." However, this was not enough for Thomas Edison, and he sought to prove that alternating current actually can kill quickly. At a demonstration that he held at Coney Island, he electrocuted and killed a circus elephant named Topsy. In the end, despite all of Edison's devious schemes that attempted to destroy his competition's success, Westinghouse's alternating current proved to be the greater of the two.  "For his part, Edison later admitted that he regretted not taking Tesla’s advice," wrote King. Sources: American National Biography Online and Smithsonian.com FREE AppDownload

Any modern gentleman or lady knows the importance of keeping a good watch. Whether it's a shiny new gift or a sentimental hand-me-down from a relative, you'll want to find a repairman you can trust to take good care of your watch whenever it needs repairs, or even a new battery. We turned to our friends at Yelp, who ranked watch repair shops around New York City based on user reviews, and found the best ten shops in town. Some of the these experts have been around for years, and you might find your conversations with them as rewarding as the repair itself. 121 Madison AveMidtown East, Manhattan Star Watch Service is a little mom-and-pop shop but their service is top notch. They'll check out your watch immediately and are often able to fix it on the spot. Or leave it with them for bigger repairs -- they'll get the job done fast for a reasonable price. 39 W 14th StGreenwich Village, Manhattan JWATCH can boast candid, direct service, according to Yelp reviewer Bryan H. They're also really great about last minute walk-ins, even as the store is closing. They'll get you in and out of there in no time, and the receptionist at the front desk is reportedly very friendly. 875 3rd AveMidtown East, Manhattan  Watch Station is an old-school watch repair shop with the customer care and attention to detail to match. It's located inside a newsstand in the subway entrance on 3rd Avenue. Yelp reviewer Dave P. calls repairman Boris "a superstar" and "a true watchmaker." 70 Bayard StChinatown, Manhattan Watch Repair's expert, Michael Chen, is not only talented, he's truly entertaining to watch, according to one Yelp reviewer. He'll change a battery in record time and he's courteous too. (More than one reviewer described him hanging around after closing time to do one last quick fix.) 1 Beekman St, Rm 503Financial District, Manhattan This is the kind of place you go to for the customer service and ambience. Mr. Maddox, described by reviewers as a kind old man, still runs the cluttered old shop. But don't be mistaken -- despite his age, he is absolutely on top of his game. "I think I've found the nicest gentleman EVER!" wrote Yelp reviewer  Ebony C. "He didn't want to charge me and that just was the sweetest thing." 20 W 47th StMidtown West, Manhattan No more than two people fit in this tiny midtown shop at a time, and it does get busy. But it's worth the wait -- service is "pleasant, quick, and underpriced," according to reviewer Dakota M.  Some reviewers found repairman Mikhael a bit rough around the edges, but most agreed that he's an honest guy, and he'll repair your watch while you wait. 908 Amsterdam AveManhattan Valley, Manhattan Yelp reviewers love this place for the speed and the affordability. Avoid the crowds of midtown and come here for battery changes in minutes flat (usually for $7 or less). "Exceptional service -- owner did repairs himself, very professional &amp; fast," wrote reviewer Julie C. "Had everything he needed, was great experience!" 500 5th AvePark Slope, Brooklyn This South Park Slope spot is a jewelry shop, but they also do watch repairs. A number of Yelp reviewers have come here for watch resizing or battery replacement services, both of which cost about $5 and take under 5 minutes. 2350 BroadwayUpper West Side, Manhattan Ernesto's has mixed reviews on Yelp but some long-time Upper West Side residents swear by it. The service is friendly and prices are comparable to other shops on this list. "This place is awesome and the only place I now go to for any watch repairs," wrote reviewer Marco G. "They are very welcoming at the store and don't rip you off like some of the other places I've been to." 9618 63rd DrRego Park, Queens This Forest Hills shop is great whether you live in Queens or are willing to make the trek out there. The word most commonly used by Yelpers to describe the repairmen here is "helpful." "Great service, friendly owner, replaced my watch battery in seconds and showed me all the functions of the watch that I didn't even know about," wrote Michael C. "Highly recommended." FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersShoppers browse at Marbles: The Brain Store within The Court, King of Prussia Mall, United State's largest retail shopping space, in King of Prussia(Reuters) - The 2014 holiday season showed steady growth over the last year on strong demand for jewelry and women's apparel, according to data published by MasterCard Advisors SpendingPulse, which tracks customer spending during the holiday season. Retail sales during Black Friday through Christmas Eve increased 5.5 percent, in line with forecasts, MasterCard Advisors said.   (Reporting by Ramkumar Iyer in Bengaluru; Editing by Joyjeet Das) FREE AppDownload
The S&amp;P 500 is probably the most popular benchmark against which stock market investors measure themselves. For many investors, the best bet has been to put their money in an index fund that tracks the S&amp;P 500 and just let it ride. However, buying and holding an S&amp;P 500 index fund is very different from buying and holding the 500 companies that make up the index. For many reasons. One key reason is that the S&amp;P 500 experiences quite a bit of turnover. Names are added and deleted regularly. "To be clear, not every S&amp;P 500 deletion was the result of a 'problem stock'," wrote JP Morgan Asset Management's Michael Cembalest in September. "Actually, most deleted companies were not the result of a problem, and reflect benign index removals because: they were acquired at a premium to their current price; they merged with other companies in the index; or, they reincorporated outside the US." This is not to say there haven't been a lot of S&amp;P 500 distressed business "problem stocks," which Cembalest characterized as "the S&amp;P 500 deletions that were a consequence of stocks that failed outright, were removed due to substantial declines in their market value, or were acquired after suffering such a decline." "Since 1980, over 320 companies were deleted from the S&amp;P 500 for business distress reasons, which implies a lot of turnover," Cembalest wrote. "This should not be a surprise: capitalism is based on competition, creative destruction and reinvention." Investing in an S&amp;P 500 index fund is characterized as passive investing. However, "passive" is a bit of a mischaracterization as the index is much more active than not. JP Morgan FREE AppDownload
We have previously observed that while pundits are happy to focus on non-GAAP earnings which over the past several years have become a total farce, the reality is that GAAP EPS for the S&amp;P in 2014 will be 1.3% lower than a year ago, and that as a result of crashing energy company profits, 2015 GAAP EPS will be lower still, meaning that contrary to the propaganda, the US will see two consecutive years of declining wage growth. That said, not even we expected to read the following shocker revealing just how naked the corporate profitability emperor truly is, and coming from the world's largest asset manager on top of everything. Presenting the stunning punchline from Blackrock's 2015 Investment Outlook: Corporate earnings are a key risk. Analysts predict double-digit growth in 2015, yet such high expectations will be tough to meet. Companies have picked the low-hanging fruit by slashing costs since the financial crisis. How do you generate 10% earnings-per-share growth when nominal GDP growth is just 4%? It becomes tempting to take on too much leverage, use financial wizardry to reward shareholders or even stretch accounting principles. S&amp;P 500 profits are 86% higher than they would be if accounting standards of the national accounts were used, Pelham Smithers Associates notes. And the gap between the two measures is widening, the research firm finds. So assuming 126 non-GAAP 2015 S&amp;P PE, this means the real EPS is... 67, which in turn means that the real forward P/E as of this moment is over 30! Then again, judging by the buying frenzy being unleashed in the S&amp;P, it is time to BTFATH with both hands and on margin, because as long as nobody admits the truth, one must buy, buy, buy. FREE AppDownload
Marcio Jose Sanchez/APApple CEO Tim Cook came out.2014 gave us lots of reasons to smile, from the infamous Oscar selfie to the inescapable Ice Bucket Challenge. It was a year for standing up for what you believe in, setting records, and making a meme of everything. Before we "Let It Go," let's take a look at the year's highlights in entertainment, tech, business, science, and world news. FREE AppDownload
 Maybe you missed it, but Google officially became a car company last week. The first prototypes of its adorable and potentially groundbreaking self-driving vehicle started rolling off the assembly line. Over the next few years, we're likely to see them tooling around California's roads as Google strives to make fully autonomous cars a reality. For the most part, the traditional auto industry sees the Google self-driving project as a Very Interesting Idea. And why not? If Google can develop a suite of software applications that will improve safety and enable people in cars to do things other than focus on driving 100% of the time, the process will yield technologies that can be installed in Buicks and Toyotas and BMWs. And besides, automakers are pursuing their own self-driving tech. But Google has really upped the ante by building a whole new platform to integrate and advance its self-driving concepts. The Google Car looks like the product of a technology company. Its entire physical premise is, fundamentally, No Driver Required. This is utterly new: cars have always been built around the driver. But Google has built its car around computer programming. Bottom line: the traditional auto industry should be afraid — very afraid. Here's why: 1. The Google Car Is A Software Platform The modern automobile is in many ways a rolling computer. But its legacy means that it's also a rolling engine and a large piece of industrial design that needs to protect 2-7 people and achieve speeds of over 100 mph, to be able to interact with other cars and the existing transportation infrastructure. As a result, cars can be updated in major ways only every 4-5 years. Consumer products and software, by contrast, can be updated yearly, monthly, weekly — and even daily! Google is constantly updating its applications, invisibly. So the Google Car will never be out of date, in terms of its brain. 2. The Google Car Doesn't Need To Go Fast The Googlemobile isn't designed to operate at high speeds — it tops out at 25 mph — which allows for a simple design. One assumes that as the technology advances, the car will go faster, need to be bigger, and so on. But actually, the Google model of autonomous vehicles predicts a relatively low-speed world of mobility. The Moon Shot is for self-driving artificial intelligence to be able to deal with complex urban environments, where cars generally poke along at 25-50 mph. But there's no good reason for cars to be capable of highway speeds well in excess of speed limits. If self-driving cars could maintain steady highways speeds of around 60 mph and avoid traffic snarls, they might be able to improve travel times. 3. The Google Car Is Uncomplicated It's a modest electric vehicle. Ultimately, it will have no controls for a driver. Electric motors are simple and require little maintenance. The Google Car won't need big brakes. It's designed for a world in which people don't own their cars, so what maintenance it does require can be carried out at central locations. If a component fails on the road, mechanics will probably be able to fix things quickly and easily. The cars we have now are extremely reliable compared to autos of the past, but a minor problem can still take one off the road for days.  A simple, slow software platform built by a Silicon Valley technology company.  It should have the world's auto execs sweating with fear. NOW WATCH: This Flying Car Is Real And It Can Fly 430 Miles On A Full Tank  FREE AppDownload
Do you play recreational tennis or golf? Would you bet your retirement savings you could beat Roger Federer or Tiger Woods? Of course you wouldn't. In most areas of your life, you objectively assess your skill level, and make intelligent decisions about the outcome of your planned activities. Unfortunately, many people abandon any pretense of objectivity when it comes to investing. They are overly confident in their ability to achieve returns that will "beat the market." Such investors are not alone. One 2006 study, "Behaving Badly," by James Montier, surveyed 300 professional mutual fund managers. Nearly 75% of them thought they were above average at their jobs. Very few, if any, believed they were below average. Obviously, only 50% of this group could, by definition, be above average. In reality, the high opinion many of these professional mutual fund managers had of their investing skills was irrational and unwarranted. Another study, "Volume, Volatility, Price and Profit: When All Traders Are Above Average," authored by Terrance Odean and published in The Journal of Finance in 1998, examined what happens in financial markets when investors are overconfident. It found that overconfident investors expend too many resources on information acquisition and trade too much. The study concluded that the pursuit of information deemed necessary to increase returns causes overconfident traders to "fare less well than passive traders." Endowment funds are the top dogs of the investing world. Much has been written about their stunning results. From 2009 through 2011, you were 10 times more likely to see a news story regarding one of the 10 largest educational endowments than you were to read about endowments of any other size, according to October 2012 Vanguard research. The holy grail for many individual investors is to emulate the returns of endowment funds. The disproportionate amount of publicity generated by big-name endowments obscures the fact that the performance of smaller endowments is nothing to brag about when compared with low-cost mutual funds. These endowments still have massive resources at their disposal. They can hire the most sophisticated consultants and analysts. They have access to private equity and other alternative investments. You would think the performance of these funds would be stellar. In the aforementioned Vanguard research, Vanguard analyzed the returns of endowment funds. Its findings were sobering. It found the average large endowment, defined as one with assets in excess of $1 billion, performed extremely well in comparison with broad indexes. However, large endowments represented less than 10% of the assets of all endowments. The remaining 91% of endowments (those with assets under $1 billion) "performed more modestly." This was also true for the most recent five and 10-year periods, when these smaller endowments jumped on the alternative investment bandwagon. Alternative investments were thought by many to be the secret sauce used by the "big boys" to outperform the market. When Vanguard drilled into the details of endowment performance, the results were striking. Over the five, 10 and 25-year periods ended June 30, 2011, average annualized returns of all endowment funds underperformed a simple benchmark index with 60% in stocks and 40% in bonds. The average endowment modestly outperformed this benchmark over 15 and 20-year periods.  The results were even more striking when Vanguard compared the returns of medium and small endowment funds to the returns of a low-cost, active balanced fund. The low-cost balanced fund outperformed small endowments over the five, 10, 15, 20 and 25-year periods measured. It outperformed medium endowments over the five, 20 and 25-year periods. On a risk-adjusted basis, over the past 25 years, low-cost active balance funds consistently outperformed medium and small endowments for all periods studied. If this dismal performance record is the best small and medium-size endowments can do, why do you believe you and your broker can achieve superior results? Flickr / Lee_SalfordTry to stay objective. An objective view of the data leaves little doubt about what investors should do to achieve higher expected returns. According to a September 2011 study, entitled, "The Behavior of Individual Investors," the methodology is simple to understand and even easier to implement. It's to buy and hold well-diversified portfolios, trade infrequently and minimize taxes and other investment costs. Although this is clear in theory, the reality of investor behavior is quite different. The study found investors trade frequently, have "perverse stock selection ability," incur unnecessary costs, sell winners and hold losers, as well as generate unnecessary tax liabilities. Many investors hold poorly diversified portfolios, resulting in levels of unnecessarily high risk. Many are "unduly influenced by media and past experience." The study concludes, "Individual investors who ignore the prescriptive advice to buy and hold low-fee, well-diversified portfolios, generally do so to their detriment."  Whether you call it overconfidence or hubris, the result is the same. These behavioral traits are likely to negatively impact your returns, imperiling your ability to reach your retirement goals. This article originally appeared at U.S. News & World Report.  Copyright 2014. Follow U.S. News & World Report on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Getty Images / David BanksKentucky Wildcats forward Willie Cauley-Stein (15) dunks the ball.Stocks went up again, closing at record highs. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories: 1. Once again, the US stock market achieved new records. The S&amp;P 500 set an intraday high of 2,092.70 and the Dow set an intraday high of 18,103.45. There were no major market-moving economic reports on the calendar today. 2. Holiday sales were strong. According to MasterCard Advisors SpendingPulse, retail sales during Black Friday through Christmas Eve were up 5.5% this year. According to ChannelAdvsior via Bloomberg, online sales jumped 14% from November 27 to December 21. According to IBM via Bloomberg, online spending on Christmas Day jumped 8.3%. 3. Amazon.com Prime service is booming. "We are excited to welcome more than ten million new members to Amazon Prime this holiday season, who benefited from unlimited Free Two-Day Shipping on their holiday gifts," CEO Jeff Bezos said. AMZN shares gained 2%. 4. GoPro shares surged 4%. Amazon.com highlighted the GoPro HERO4 SILVER, headstrap mount and clip, and accessories kit among its list of holiday best sellers. Don't Miss: The Top 10 Things We Learned About The Economy And Markets In 2014 » FREE AppDownload
Sibling conflicts that begin in childhood often run the risk of lasting well into adulthood if the issues aren't addressed and resolved; but what are the causes of the issues themselves?We posed this question to psychoanalyst and author Jeanne Safer Ph.D., and she said the conflicts generally arose because of preferential treatment from the parents toward one or more of the siblings. Dr. Safer offers advice for parents on how to avoid behavior that could lead to painful sibling rivalries. Produced by Graham Flanagan Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Amazon just published its annual post-Christmas press release. These are always packed with interesting nuggets. Here are a few things that popped out: Those were some of the highlights. If you want to pick through it yourself, here's the entire release: Amazon’s 20th holiday season brought record growth to the company’s fast, free shipping program Amazon Prime – more than 10 million new members worldwide tried Prime for the first time.Amazon customers also benefited from low prices this season, including more than 25,000 Lightning Deals. “We are excited to welcome more than ten million new members to Amazon Prime this holiday season, who benefited from unlimited Free Two-Day Shipping on their holiday gifts. Prime members can also borrow more than 700,000 books, listen to one million songs and hundreds of playlists, save unlimited photos and watch tens of thousands of movies and TV episodes including the Golden Globe nominated show from Amazon Studios, Transparent,” said Jeff Bezos, founder and CEO of Amazon.com. “We are working hard to make Prime even better and expanding the recently launched Prime Now to additional cities in 2015.” Amazon Prime has come to mean fast, free shipping, free streaming and free reading. This year, Amazon added nearly a dozen new features and benefits to Prime. In addition to Prime Instant Video and the Kindle Owners Lending Library, members now enjoy Prime Music, Prime Photos, Prime Pantry, Amazon Elements, critically-acclaimed and exclusive streaming content, early access to select Lightning Deals, exclusive pricing on select Amazon devices, exclusive pricing on Same-Day Delivery and more. Following the November launch of Prime Photos, members also uploaded nearly one billion photos with free unlimited photo storage inAmazon Cloud Drive. Holiday Fun Facts: Shipping: Amazon Devices &amp; Digital Media: Customer Purchases: Holiday Best Sellers (Amazon.com only): Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through his personal investment company Bezos Expeditions. FREE AppDownload

This has been a remarkable year for US equities – not just in terms of the handsome return for investors (15% for the S&amp;P so far) but also because of how this was delivered. This is a market that, in 2014, Traditional fundamental factors are challenged when it comes to explaining such an outcome. Most importantly, while the U.S. economic situation has notably improved this year and is now starting to deliver more inclusive gains, this much-awaited progression has been far from linear. In addition, there is the dampening reality of a weakening global economy, geo-political tensions and precipitous moves in currency and commodity markets. To explain the impressive equity market performance, we also need to appeal to other factors – specifically, to central banks and the deployment of idle cash. Throughout the year, central banks have remained equity investors’ best friends. Fearing spiking market volatility as much as risk-averse investors do, they repeatedly responded to periodic market jitters through a combination of re-assuring statements and, in the case of foreign central banks, further monetary policy easing. In the process, they consistently signaled to markets that they would rather overdo monetary stimulus than tighten pre-maturely. Such reassurances were instrumental in attracting lots of money into the marketplace, and not only from households but also companies. In addition to large share buybacks and higher dividend payouts, this year has seen a significant increase in M&amp;A activity with the vast majority of transactions taking place well above prevailing market prices. In celebrating what has been a truly impressive year for US equities, investors have much more than fundamentals to be thankful for; and, along with further economic improvements, the durability of the other two factors is key to building on the impressive gains in the new year. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Sukree SukplangMark MobiusThe price of oil has plummeted this year as a result of increased volatility in most markets and a temporary imbalance of supply and demand. In view of continued long-term world growth, particularly in emerging- and frontier-market countries, we believe oil prices will probably not suffer from a prolonged price slump. As we see it, the demand for raw materials in general, including not only oil but also iron ore, copper, nickel and agricultural products, is still likely to increase over the long term with increased global growth. Much of the velocity of the recent oil price drop, we think, is based on speculation and short-term trading. In our view, the price of oil is likely to rebound in 2015 or 2016. In the past two months, crude oil has experienced its biggest price slump since the 2007–2009 global financial crisis, with a number of reasons cited, including slowing demand growth from major economies and increased output from the United States in the past few years that hasn’t been met with decreased production among other major oil producers. Certainly, too much supply, if it continues, will impact prices—that’s just basic economics. However, when we look at long-term demand patterns, we see the overall trend has been up, not down, and we can see how emerging-market economies have been driving this growth. The Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) is a forum that facilitates cooperation among the governments of 34 member-democracies with market economies to promote economic growth, prosperity and sustainable development. Most emerging and frontier markets are non-OECD members, including China and India. The chart below shows how non-OECD countries have already surpassed the OECD countries in terms of crude oil consumption, and the gap is forecast to widen in future years. Franklin Templeton Investments China: Growing—or Slowing? Slowing growth in China has been cited as a reason behind the drop in oil prices, but we look at the situation a little differently than many. Sure, its gross domestic product (GDP) growth is no longer in the double-digits of times past, and that’s to be expected because China’s economy is growing—it now has a higher baseline. I don’t think growth in China is a problem. In 2010, when China was growing at about 10%, US$844 billion was added to the economy. In 2013, growth had slowed to just under 8%, but more than US$900 billion was added to the economy. So, yes, GDP growth has been smaller percentage-wise, but you have to look at the overall economic impact—the US dollar figures. Additionally, many people don’t think China needs more infrastructure, but from my personal experience traveling around the country on packed trains and heavily trafficked roads, it needs it badly! Urbanization is still underway; there is still a lot to be done in China, and it will still need natural resources to do it. Franklin Templeton Investments Franklin Templeton Investments Impact of Lower Oil on Emerging Economies Most consumers naturally cheer lower energy prices, but looking at overall economic impacts, lower oil prices can be a double-edged sword. In countries that are heavily dependent on oil exports, a prolonged oil price slump could be harmful. Nigeria’s government, for example, depends on oil for a large part of its budget; the oil and gas sector accounts for about 35% of GDP, and petroleum export revenue represents over 90% of total export revenues.1 If these revenues drop, Nigeria’s leaders would either have to suffer through a lower oil price spell, or do something to revive the economy through diversification and reforms. Among the world’s top exporters, Russia’s GDP fell 8% in 2009 as the price of oil plunged below US$40 a barrel amid the global financial crisis. Russia remains heavily dependent on energy revenues today, and the country seems likely to be impacted greatly if prices don’t rebound quickly enough. Combined with Ukraine-related sanctions, Russian government officials have predicted a possible recession in 2015. Also highly dependent on oil revenues, Venezuela also seems particularly vulnerable, in our view. Saudi Arabia seems likely in a better position to weather the price downturn, as Saudi Arabia has enormous foreign reserves and investments that we believe should enable it to continue spending and growing even with low oil prices. On the flip side, China and India, as net importers, are likely to benefit from lower oil prices. Part of the increased supply of oil has come from increased US shale production. At levels under US$60 a barrel, extracting oil becomes less profitable to shale producers. As it becomes unprofitable, some production will likely shut down, although it may take a number of months for fields to be abandoned. Meanwhile, the demand for oil in the two most populous countries in the world (China and India) is increasing as a result of more cars, buses and trucks on the roads. In addition, plastics and many other widely used products are derived from oil. The cost of finding and producing oil has not generally been declining. Therefore, over the longer term, we think oil prices will recover. We see another side to the lower oil price story that is potentially positive for some emerging economies that had been subsidizing energy. These subsidies were a drag on government budgets, and lower market prices make removing such subsidies less painful for consumers residing in those countries. Indonesia has removed some subsidies, and we see signs that India and China are moving in that direction as well. An environment of lower energy prices has helped some emerging countries embark on much-needed reforms with less painful effects. Right now, we think perhaps the biggest concern from an investment standpoint is volatility, not only in the price of oil but in related stocks in the sector—and in equity markets generally. We’ve seen some incredible swings. We look to use the downturns to find potential bargains for our portfolios, but many investors get spooked and lose out on opportunities. We, of course, will be looking at those countries, sectors and companies that we think could benefit from lower oil prices. We are not avoiding oil companies completely right now, however. Since many such companies are diversified, they may suffer in terms of their exploration and production activities, but could potentially benefit from their retail activities. Mark Mobius’s comments, opinions and analyses are personal views and are intended to be for informational purposes and general interest only and should not be construed as individual investment advice or a recommendation or solicitation to buy, sell or hold any security or to adopt any investment strategy. It does not constitute legal or tax advice. The information provided in this material is rendered as at publication date and may change without notice and it is not intended as a complete analysis of every material fact regarding any country, region market or investment. Data from third party sources may have been used in the preparation of this material and Franklin Templeton Investments (“FTI”) has not independently verified, validated or audited such data. FTI accepts no liability whatsoever for any loss arising from use of this information and reliance upon the comments, opinions and analyses in the material is at the sole discretion of the user. Products, services and information may not be available in all jurisdictions and are offered by FTI affiliates and/or their distributors as local laws and regulations permit. Please consult your own professional adviser for further information on availability of products and services in your jurisdiction. What Are the Risks? All investments involve risks, including possible loss of principal. Foreign securities involve special risks, including currency fluctuations and economic and political uncertainties. Investments in emerging markets, of which frontier markets are a subset, involve heightened risks related to the same factors, in addition to those associated with these markets’ smaller size, lesser liquidity and lack of established legal, political, business and social frameworks to support securities markets. Because these frameworks are typically even less developed in frontier markets, as well as various factors including the increased potential for extreme price volatility, illiquidity, trade barriers and exchange controls, the risks associated with emerging markets are magnified in frontier markets. Investments in the energy sector involve special risks, including increased susceptibility to adverse economic and regulatory developments affecting the sector. 1. Source: Organization of the Petroleum Oil Exporting Countries (OPEC), 2014. FREE AppDownload
Flick via Google ImagesThe automakers will report December vehicle sales on Monday, Jan 5th. Sales in November were at 17.1 million on a seasonally adjusted annual rate basis (SAAR), and it appears sales in December might be close to 17 million SAAR again. Note:  There were 26 selling days in December this year compared to 25 last year. Here are a few forecasts: From WardsAuto: Forecast: December Sales Set to Reach 10-Year High A WardsAuto forecast calls for U.S. automakers to sell 1.51 million light vehicles in December, which would be the second-highest December sales tally since at least 1980, just behind December 2004’s 1.53 million. ... The forecast puts the seasonally adjusted annual rate of sales at 16.95 million-units, within a hair of breaking the 17 million mark for two consecutive months for the first time since June and July 2005. From J.D. Power: Vehicle Sales Forecast Increases for 2014 and 2015; December Retail SAAR Highest Since 2006 Total light-vehicle sales in December 2014 are expected to reach 1.5 million units, a 6 percent increase, compared with December 2013. [Total forecast 16.7 million SAAR]...For 2015, LMC Automotive has raised its forecast to 17.4 million units from 17.2 million, which is a 3 percent growth from 2014. From Kelley Blue Book: New-Vehicle Sales To Jump Nearly 10 Percent In Best December Since 2004; Kelley Blue Book Forecasts 16.9 Million SAAR In 2015  In December, new light-vehicle sales, including fleet, are expected to hit 1,490,000 units, up 9.8 percent from December 2013 and up 14.7 percent from November 2014. The seasonally adjusted annual rate (SAAR) for December 2014 is estimated to be 16.7 million, up from 15.4 million in December 2013 and down from 17.1 million in November 2014. And on 2015 from TrueCar: TrueCar projects 2015 U.S. new auto sales to reach decade-high 17 million, set all-time record revenue of $553 billion  TrueCar, Inc. ... expects a healthy U.S. auto industry in 2015 with sales of new cars and trucks rising at least 2.6 percent to 17 million units, the highest level since 2005. Another strong month for auto sales. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Vincent WestSEOUL (Reuters) - Prosecutors raided the headquarters of LG Electronics on Friday as part of a probe into whether the South Korean company had damaged the washing machines of rival Samsung Electronics at retail stores in Germany, LG said. The raid comes amid an increasingly bitter rivalry between the two companies which compete in home appliances, TVs and smartphones, and ahead of the world's biggest consumer electronics show at Las Vegas in January. Samsung had asked the Seoul Central District Prosecutors' Office to investigate LG employees who Samsung says were seen deliberately destroying several of its premium washing machines on display at two stores in September ahead of the IFA electronics show in Berlin. On Friday, investigators searched the Seoul offices of LG Elec's home appliance head, Jo Seong-jin, and others and secured documents and computer hard disks related to the IFA fair, Yonhap News Agency said. They also combed through LG Electronics' home appliance factory in the southeastern city of Changwon, the report said. "We regret today's raid by prosecutors," LG Electronics said in a statement. "Our company - a global company - was raided as a result of a rival's unilateral and excessive claims, and we are concerned that this would seriously undermine our corporate activities and external credibility," it said. A Samsung spokesman declined to comment, while prosecutors were not available for comments. Samsung sued LG Electronics employees after the incident in Germany, and LG said the company has counter-sued Samsung employees on Dec. 12. Media reports have earlier said prosecutors banned LG's Seong-jin from leaving the country ahead of the Consumer Electronics Show (CES) to be held January 6-9. (Editing by Muralikumar Anantharaman) FREE AppDownload
TOKYO (Reuters) - Japanese annual core consumer inflation slowed for a fourth straight month in November due largely to sliding oil prices, highlighting the challenges the central bank faces in achieving its 2 percent inflation target. Factory output unexpectedly fell and household spending remained weak, separate data showed, suggesting that any rebound in the economy from recession will be mild and fragile. The core consumer price index (CPI), which excludes volatile fresh food but includes oil products, rose 2.7 percent in November from a year earlier, matching a median market forecast, government data showed on Friday. Stripping out the effects of a sales tax hike in April, core consumer inflation was 0.7 percent, slowing from 0.9 percent in October and far below the Bank of Japan's 2 percent target. Sharp falls in fuel and gasoline prices were largely behind the slowdown in inflation, the data showed. Separate data showed industrial output unexpectedly fell 0.6 percent in November, down for the first time in three months and compared with a median estimate of a 0.8 percent gain. In a glimmer of hope, however, manufacturers surveyed by the government expect output to rise 3.2 percent in December and increase 5.7 percent in January, the data showed. BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda stressed last week that Japan was on track to hit the price goal, shrugging off speculation that a recent plunge in oil prices would weigh on consumer prices and force him to ease policy again early next year. But many analysts remain doubtful that the BOJ can meet its pledge of accelerating inflation to 2 percent in the next fiscal year beginning in April 2015. The job market continued to tighten, reflecting the recovery.The jobless rate stood at 3.5 percent in November, flat from October, and job availability hit a 22-year high. The number of part-time workers exceeded 20 million for the first time since relevant data became available in 1984, suggesting that companies will have to raise wages to lure employees. Consumers have yet to loosen their purse strings given slow wage growth. Household spending fell 2.5 percent in the year to November, against a market forecast for a 3.8 percent drop. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Sergei KarpukhinA boy slides from the top of a heap of snow in the Red Square, with St. Basil's Cathedral seen in the background, in central Moscow December 25, 2014. Good morning! Here are a couple things worth knowing. Japan's Not Doing Great. Industrial production activity unexpectedly fell by 0.6% in November. Economists were expecting a 0.8% gain. "Industrial production fluctuates indecisively," Japan's industry ministry said in its report. Japan Can't Get Prices Up. Consumer price growth slowed to 2.4% in November from 2.9% in December. Excluding food, core price growth cooled to 2.7%. This was the fourth straight month of price deceleration. The Few Markets That Are Open Are Up. In Asia, Japan's Nikkei closed up 0.1%. Markets across Europe are closed. US futures are in the green again with Dow futures up 28 points and S&amp;P futures up 3 points. Natural Gas Falls Again. Natural gas futures fell to as low as $2.994 per million BTUs, the lowest level since September 26, 2012, reports Bloomberg's Rachel Graham.  An unexpectedly mild winter has natural gas inventories up and prices falling. China Wants More Liquidity. "The People's Bank of China (PBOC) is weighing changing rules governing how loan-to-deposit ratios are calculated at banks, a move that would boost liquidity conditions, sources with direct knowledge told Reuters," Reuters Pete Sweeney reported. "The banking-sector sources said the PBOC, during a meeting with domestic financial institutions, revealed it is planning to include savings held by banks for non-deposit-taking financial institutions into banks' deposits, which will expand the base for calculating loan-to-deposit ratios." S&amp;P Is Close To Settling With The US.  "Standard &amp; Poor’s Ratings Services is nearing a settlement with regulators over their investigation of how the company graded real-estate bonds, according to people familiar with the matter," WSJ's Timothy Martin reported. "The proposed deal, which involves six commercial real-estate bond ratings from 2011, could be reached as early as next month, the people said. The joint settlement would be with the Securities and Exchange Commission, New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman and Massachusetts Attorney General Martha Coakley , the people said." Credit Suisse Is Being Asked To Pay. "Credit Suisse Group AG was ordered to face a lawsuit by New York’s attorney general accusing the bank of fraud in sales of mortgage-backed securities before the recession," Bloomberg's Linda Sandler and Christie Smythe. "A New York State Supreme Court judge rejected the bank’s request to dismiss the lawsuit, which demands as much as $10 billion in damages. Attorney General Eric Schneiderman’s suit was valid, and he demonstrated the bank may have engaged in misconduct, Judge Marcy Friedman said in yesterday’s decision." No US Economic Data On The Calendar. There's no major market-moving data on the calendar to move markets. The Ruble Has Been Doing Better. "Russia's ruble rose on Friday to its strongest levels in more than three weeks, in a sharp rebound from its recent all-time lows, after the government ordered exporters to sell some of their hard currency revenues," Reuters Vladimir Soldatkin and Yelena Fabrichnaya reported. ...But 2015 Will Still Stink. "Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said on Friday that the Russian economy could contract by 4 percent next year and that the budget could have a deficit of more than 3 percent of gross domestic product if oil prices average $60 a barrel," Reuters' Dasha Korsunskaya reported. FREE AppDownload
MOSCOW (Reuters) - Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said on Friday that the Russian economy could contract by 4 percent next year and that the budget could have a deficit of more than 3 percent of gross domestic product if oil prices average $60 a barrel. Siluanov also told journalists that his ministry had recalculated its budget forecasts to take into account oil prices at $60 a barrel and that he expected the ruble's average exchange rate to be around 51 rubles per dollar in 2015. He added that state bank VTB &lt;vtbr.mm&gt; could get 100 billion rubles ($1.9 billion) from the National Wealth Fund by the end of the year and 150 billion rubles more in 2015, while Gazprombank &lt;gzpri.rts&gt; could get 70 billion rubles this or next year. (Reporting by Dasha Korsunskaya; writing by Alexander Winning and Vladimir Soldatkin) FREE AppDownload
MOSCOW (Reuters) - Russia's ruble rose on Friday to its strongest levels in more than three weeks, in a sharp rebound from its recent all-time lows, after the government ordered exporters to sell some of their hard currency revenues. The ruble plunged to all-time lows last week on heavy falls in the price of oil, the backbone of the Russian economy, and Western sanctions over the Ukraine crisis that have made it near impossible for Russian firms to borrow on Western markets. But it has rebounded after authorities took steps to halt its slide and bring down inflation, which after years of stability threatens President Vladimir Putin's reputation for ensuring the country's prosperity. Those measures included a hike in interest rates, curbs on grain exports and informal capital controls such as orders to large oil and gas exporters Gazprom and Rosneft to sell some of their dollar revenues. At 0923 GMT, the ruble traded at 52.78, after earlier reaching its strongest levels since Dec. 1, picking up to about 52.1 in thin trade, with many Western markets closed for the Christmas Day holidays. Despite the ruble's sharp recovery, signs of economic stress in Russia abound. On Friday, the central bank said it would lend over $2 billion to save Trust Bank from bankruptcy, making it the first casualty of the currency crisis and the 11th significant bank to be rescued this year. Investors are also nervously waiting to see how oil prices move in 2015, having almost halved from their peak in June, trading just above $60 per barrel amid a global glut and a decision by producing group OPEC not to cut output. "If oil goes down to $50 (per barrel)... I don't think our authorities will be able to artificially maintain the rate even with higher sales by exporters," said the head of treasury at a major Russian bank, who asked not to be named because he is not authorised to speak to media. Standard &amp; Poor's credit ratings agency said this week it could downgrade Russia to junk as soon as January due to a rapid deterioration in "monetary flexibility" in the country. In addition, Russian gold and forex reserves have fallen to their lowest levels since 2009. Last week, reserves dropped by as much as $15.7 billion to below $400 billion, down from over $510 billion at the start of the year. Russians have kept a close eye on the exchange rate since the collapse of the Soviet Union, when hyper-inflation wiped out their savings over several years in the early 1990s. The central bank has had to spend heavily in recent months to support the rouble via direct interventions and loans to banks via repo operations. The money to save Trust Bank will not come from reserves but will be disbursed from the rouble liquidity at the central bank. It will provide a 99 billion rouble ($1.9 billion) 10-year loan to Trust itself and a 28 billion rouble six-year loan to bank Otkritie, which will oversee the rescue mission. The sums will come on top of some 262 billion roubles the regulator has already spent this year to rescue 10 other banks. It has also withdrawn the licences of more than 80 banks this year, bringing the total number of Russian lenders to under 1,000. The rouble had tumbled to 80 per dollar in mid-December from an average of 30-35 in the first half of 2014. The Russian currency was also supported by tax payments to state coffers which usually happen at the end of each month. (Additional reporting by Vladimir Soldatkin and Yelena Fabrichnaya, Writing by Dmitry Zhdannikov; Editing by Hugh Lawson) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Joshua RobertsChinese Minister of Commerce Chen Deming (C) speaks as Chinese Vice Foreign Minister Cui Tiankai (L) and Chinese Vice Minister of Industry and Information Technology (MIIT) Liu Lihua listen during a news conference at the 23rd session of the U.S.-China Joint Commission on Commerce and Trade.BEIJING (Reuters) - The deputy head of one of China's business regulators, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, is under investigation for suspected corruption, state media said on Friday. Sun Hongzhi is "suspected of serious violations of party discipline and law" and was being investigated by the ruling Communist Party's anti-graft watchdog, Xinhua news agency said, using the usual euphemism for graft. It gave no other details. Reuters was not able to reach Sun for comment. The State Administration for Industry and Commerce also has an anti-trust role, along with at least two other government departments, and was involved in questioning Microsoft Corp this year on the compatibility of its Windows operating system and Office software suite. Sun joined the body in 2011, having been moved there from previous jobs in the northeastern province of Jilin, where he held coal and agricultural roles, according to his biography. China's campaign against official corruption has intensified since Xi Jinping took over as president two years ago, with several senior government figures and state company executives in detention. (Reporting by Ben Blanchard; Editing by Robert Birsel) FREE AppDownload
ADRIAN, Mich. (AP) — When it came time to pick a college, Abby Slusher leaned toward a private school near her southeastern Michigan home for the small campus and class sizes. Her mother pushed Adrian College for another reason: A new program guaranteeing every graduate would make more than $37,000, or get some or all student loans reimbursed. Adrian is among the first colleges to take out insurance policies on every incoming freshman and transfer student who have student loans and at least two years of school remaining. "She said, 'Look at me, I'm still trying to pay my student loans off — this would be great. I don't want you in this situation,'" said Slusher, 18, who is studying to become a social worker. "And seeing her in this situation, I don't want that." The idea has been around for a few decades at Yale Law School and specific programs elsewhere such as seminary and social work degrees. Some small, religious schools started offering guarantees to all new students in recent years, but Adrian President Jeffrey Docking is taking it further by framing the program as a solution to skyrocketing tuition costs and student loan defaults. His crusade has gotten the attention of U.S. lawmakers and education officials. "Obviously, we feel like this is a big solution to a big problem — maybe the biggest problem right now in higher education," Docking said. "We felt like we needed to make a grand statement." Adrian paid roughly $575,000 this year, or $1,165 per student, to take out policies on 495 students. For those who graduate and get a job that pays less than $20,000 a year, the college will make full monthly student loan payments until they make $37,000 a year. With a job that pays $20,000 to $37,000, the college makes payments on a sliding scale. There's no time limit for the payment plan but the college caps total loan payments at $70,000 per student. Adrian's annual cost of tuition, room and board is about $40,000 before any forms of financial aid. The school has 1,700 students. Docking already sees benefits: The entering freshmen class is up about 50 students to 570; to break even, the school determined it needed about two-dozen new students who took out loans. He credits the program in part for the enrollment increase but says other efforts, like launching a varsity bass fishing team, have served as a lure. About 35 miles northwest of Adrian, Spring Arbor University, a small Christian institution, offered a similar guarantee to every incoming freshman in fall 2013. A conversation with Spring Arbor's former president inspired Docking. Although Spring Arbor officials see value in the program, they're likely to scale it back next year. "For the vast majority of students, it's not a deciding factor in choosing Spring Arbor," said school spokesman Malachi Crane. "Is there a way to better tailor it to students who really need it and have the desire to have that option? For us, it makes more fiscal sense not to automatically assign it to each and every student." Both programs were made possible by the Loan Repayment Assistance Program Association, a Bloomington, Indiana-based organization that works with U.S. colleges and universities on creating loan repayment programs. Peter Samuelson, the organization's president, said some schools "have ramped up, ramped back down and ramped back up again" with loan programs, but overall results are positive. "There's much more likelihood they're going to complete college successfully," Samuelson said. To get word out about the program, Docking met with other university presidents and testified last year before a U.S. House higher education subcommittee. Retiring U.S. Sen. Carl Levin, D-Mich., made a floor statement last June praising Adrian's program as a model for other colleges. Docking said federal education officials told him at a meeting in August that they are exploring ways to promote the program. Education Department spokeswoman Denise Horn said officials commend the college for its "creative approach" to helping students manage their loans. "We're talking about this far and wide because we hope other colleges do it as well," Docking said. Mark Kantrowicz, publisher of edvisors.com, a college planning and financing website, said such programs have grown as school administrators become more concerned about rising discount rates, or the percentage of gross tuition given back to students in the form of grants. He calls it an "arms race in recruiting students," and schools are trying to find ways to stop the discount rate from increasing. "Obviously, loan repayment assistance provides assistance after the fact, and that has value," he said. "But it would be better to charge less in the first place." ___ Follow Jeff Karoub at https://twitter.com/jeffkaroub Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
© AFP/File Yoshikazu TsunoMcDonald's says an emergency airlift has eased a french fries shortage in Japan which forced the chain to ration the crispy treat at more than 3,000 restaurants across the countryTokyo (AFP) - McDonald's said Friday that an emergency airlift has eased a french fries shortage in Japan which forced the chain to ration the crispy treat at more than 3,000 restaurants across the country. From January 5, medium and large-sized fries will be back on the menu, almost three weeks after the fast-food giant restricted customers to small portions due to import delays. Labour disputes on the US West Coast are curbing exports of fries, leaving Japanese restaurants scrambling to secure fresh supplies.  The Japanese arm of McDonald's said it got around the problem by airlifting in more fries.  "We will continue to monitor the situation carefully to do our best to ensure stable supply of potato products," it said in a statement. Earlier this month, the company said it had airlifted more than 1,000 tonnes of potatoes and shipped 1,600 tonnes by sea from the US east coast, but it warned that would not be enough to ensure a steady fry supply. US dockworkers are reportedly on a go-slow and have not been providing full crews for months in a bid to gain bargaining leverage in labour negotiations with employers, hampering exports to Japan. FREE AppDownload
Thomson Reuters A Qualcomm sign is pictured in front of one of its many buildings in San Diego, CaliforniaBEIJING (Reuters) - The Chinese government said on Friday that it will soon settle its antitrust investigation of U.S. mobile chipmaker Qualcomm Inc. The National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC), the country's anti-monopoly regulator that launched its probe of the San Diego-based company 13 months ago, said the case would be settled according to the law, according to an online statement. The notice cited Xu Kunlin, director general of NDRC's anti-monopoly bureau. The NDRC also said it had completed its seventh round of discussions with Qualcomm Chief Executive Officer Derek Aberle and his team earlier this month. The regulator said in February that the U.S. chipmaker was suspected of overcharging and abusing its market position in wireless communication standards. An imminent decision in the case is expected to force the company to pay fines potentially exceeding $1 billion and require concessions that would hurt its highly profitable business of charging licensing fees on phone chipsets that use its patents.  (Reporting By Matthew Miller and Beijing Newsroom; Editing by Muralikumar Anantharaman) FREE AppDownload
