Alain Jocard/ReutersRussia's President Vladimir Putin listens during his bilateral meeting with France's President Francois Hollande on the sidelines of the G20 summit in Brisbane November 15, 2014.Every central banker knows the importance of trust. In a world of fiat currencies--bank notes backed by nothing other than more bank notes--shoppers and firms must have confidence that cash will retain its value in order to hold it.  That trust is being tested in Russia, where the rouble has fallen 23% against the dollar in the past three months. Such a plunge inevitably brings inflation in the form of more expensive imports, a worry given that consumer prices in Russia are already rising at over 8% a year. Yet in recent weeks there have been creeping signs of something scarier. Faced with a clamour for dollars, Russia's banks have raised the rates they pay on dollar deposits to try to suck some in. Demand for safety-deposit boxes is up, suggesting customers are hoarding foreign currency. The head of the Central Bank of Russia, Elvira Nabiullina, is struggling to nip this trend in the bud. First, on November 5th, she hiked interest rates, to 9.5%. That means that rouble deposits earn far more than dollar ones, which should make the currency more attractive. Next, she attempted to deter bets against the rouble by replacing the central bank's puny and predictable sale of $350m a day in its defence with the threat of far bigger ad hoc interventions. Finally, she crimped commercial banks' access to roubles to limit their ability to speculate against the currency. Ms Nabiullina needed to be bold. The rouble's slide has deep causes, none of which will go away. The first is oil. In the first half of 2014 Russia's exports brought in $255 billion, with 68% of that coming from sales of oil and natural gas. During that period oil prices averaged $109 a barrel; today they are close to $80. Applying a proportional cut to Russia's energy exports would slash revenues by over $40 billion, more than wiping out Russia's current-account surplus. In most economies a big depreciation boosts demand for local products: as foreign goods get pricier shoppers pick domestic alternatives. But Russia's recent history makes such substitution difficult. The transition from Soviet subsidies to market-based agriculture was not a smooth one: production of beef, pork and poultry in Russia and Ukraine fell from almost 13m tonnes in 1991 to just 5m in 2001. Although there have been some recent improvements (notably in grain production), Russian farming is still hugely inefficient. The result is that many imports--meat, milk, eggs--have few domestic substitutes. Wholesalers that import these goods need dollars to buy them, putting pressure on the rouble. There are other reasons to sell roubles and buy dollars. Across the economy there is over $120 billion in external debt maturing in the next year according to central bank data. Roughly a third of this is owed by banks, and the remaining two-thirds by other firms. Some of these outfits--notably Russia's energy giants--have dollar revenues. A big chunk of the remainder, including the banks, do not. Since sanctions prevent many Russian companies from borrowing abroad to refinance these dollar debts, this creates sustained demand for dollars. With chunky repayments due in December, there could be another rouble rout before the end of the year. via The Economist The dependence on Western markets and currencies pains Vladimir Putin, Russia's president. On November 10th he signed a deal with Xi Jinping, his Chinese counterpart, that will see Russia export gas from Siberia to China via new pipelines. The deal provides a huge new source of demand, and could see China replace Europe as Russia's main export market. In addition, an agreement to start trading in yuan rather than dollars will cut demand for America's currency. But the pipelines will take years to be built and financing for the project has yet to be secured. In the meantime Russia may have to cope with low oil and gas prices for years. On November 12th a new set of forecasts from the Energy Information Administration, an American government agency, said that oil prices are likely to average $83 a barrel in 2015. On the optimistic assumption that the price will rise to $90 a barrel, Ms Nabiullina still forecasts zero growth and 8% inflation for 2015. Russia's rouble crisis looks far from over. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
The EconomistPlastic bottles are ubiquitous but the cost of producing them varies dramatically around the world, thanks mainly to differences in raw-material costs and energy prices. The main type of plastic used, polyethylene terephthalate (PET), is made from naphtha, an oil derivative, which can be partly substituted with ethane, a natural-gas derivative. Very little ethane is traded internationally, so only places where natural gas is cheap and abundant use it to make PET. Because of its shale-gas boom, these now include America as well as the Middle East. Europe and Asia rely only on expensive naphtha. In these places the higher cost of fuel and electricity also push up production costs for plastic bottles. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
Get ready to pay more for your Kentucky whiskey. Or do without it. Because of the recent spike in popularity of the brown spirit, distillers, who generally need to age even the cheapest stuff for 8-10 years, are warning that a major shortage is coming. This isn't a total surprise. Buffalo Trace Distillery warned last year that demand was outpacing supply and temporary product shortages were on the horizon. Well, the shortage is now here.  Here's what Buffalo Trace had to say in its distillery email blast today: Last year we warned consumers that a shortage was looming, but many markets across the nation are just now feeling the full effects. Along with increased production, adding more bottling lines and hiring more people, we have also hired a full-time barrel allocation manager, just as we intended last year. Despite the increase in distillation over the past few years, bourbon demand still outpaces supply. Bourbon must be matured in new oak barrels and we age many of our barrels for eight to ten years, and some over two decades. That’s a long time to wait for a bottle of bourbon. Not to mention, with the amount of bourbon lost to evaporation over time, barrels are half empty after ten years. The increase in sales, coupled with the aging process and evaporation loss, leads to a shortage with no end in sight. Thank you for your patience and understanding as we try to catch up! Buffalo Trace isn't the only distillery running into this problem. Bourbon is a lot more popular than it was 10 years ago, so it makes sense that most producers are going to run into supply problems for the next few years. Last year, Maker's Mark tried to get around the issue by diluting the alcohol that went into its bottles. That did not go well.   Presumably other distillers will just do what most businesses do when demand outstrips supply: raise prices. Carl Wycoff/flickr FREE AppDownload
Melia Robinson/BIPhillips Exeter is the best private high school in America.Prestigious Phillips Exeter Academy in New Hampshire is the best private high school in America, according to a new ranking from school data site Niche. Exeter, which has around 1,000 students, scored particularly high marks for its teachers and academics. Niche combined community reviews and hard data to compile its private school ranking. The site ranks over 100,000 schools based on 27 million reviews from more than 300,000 students and parents, who rated schools in areas like academics, teachers, student culture and diversity, and resources and facilities, among others. FREE AppDownload
Researchers in Canada sought to raise three breeds of broiler chickens common in 1957, 1978, and 2005 without the influence of disparate feeds or hormones to see how they’d changed genetically. This video originally appeared on Slate Video. Watch More: slate.com/video Jim Festante is an actor/writer in Los Angeles and regular video contributor to Slate. He's the author of the Image Comics miniseries The End Times of Bram and Ben.
Courtesy of TheranosElizabeth Holmes' company, Theranos, is revolutionizing the standard blood test.Age, as they say, ain't nothing but a number, and that's especially true when it comes to how much a person can achieve at a young age. We found the most inspiring innovators, entrepreneurs, and activists under the age of 40 around the world. These people disrupt industries — spanning finance, tech, sports, entertainment, media, science, food, and retail — with their revolutionary new companies, products, and ideas. In 2015, this incredible group of individuals will be worth watching.  FREE AppDownload
Melia Robinson/BIPhillips Exeter is the best private high school in America.Prestigious Phillips Exeter Academy in New Hampshire is the best private high school in America, according to a new ranking from school data site Niche. Exeter, which has around 1,000 students, scored particularly high marks for its teachers and academics. Niche combined community reviews and hard data to compile its private school ranking. The site ranks over 100,000 schools based on 27 million reviews from more than 300,000 students and parents, who rated schools in areas like academics, teachers, student culture and diversity, and resources and facilities, among others. FREE AppDownload
ReutersFew countries have changed in the past few decades as much as China. What used to be a mainly rural, under-developed country is now by one measure the world's largest economy, one whose cities are growing at a massive rate. Little remains of its not-so-distant past. A group of Reuters photographers have matched up pictures from China in the 1980s and 1990s with the latest photos from the country of today. The results are staggering.
The bond market knew the South couldn't win the Civil War. According to a new Centre for Economic Policy Research discussion paper, (via WaPo's Matt O'Brien), European bond markets during the Civil War showed that at most, the South had a 42% chance of winning. The paper's abstract said the researchers used the market's pricing of the probability that debt would be repaid as a proxy for that side's chance of winning a civil war. The odds of the Confederacy winning the Civil War plummeted to 28% in September 1863 after that July's battle at Gettysburg, and the bond market marked the South's chances of the South winning the war down from 28% in September 1863 to about 10% by May 1864.  The Civil War, however, didn't officially end until May 1865.  The bond market was closed for Veterans Day on Tuesday, and fortunately there is no civil war for today's traders to predict the outcome of: today, we're only guessing at when the Fed will raise interest rates.  Here's the chart of the South's demise: WaPo/CEPR FREE AppDownload
Russia's central bank added to its reserves of bullion in the third quarter, according to the latest report from the World Gold Council. Russia has taken advantage of lower gold prices to pack the vaults of its central bank with bullion as it prepares for the possibility of a long, drawn-out economic war with the West. The latest research from the World Gold Council reveals that the Kremlin snapped up 55 tonnes of the precious metal - far more than any other nation - in the three months to the end of September as prices began to weaken. Vladimir Putin's government is understood to be hoarding vast quantities of gold, having tripled stocks to around 1,150 tonnes in the last decade. These reserves could provide the Kremlin with vital firepower to try and offset the sharp declines in the rouble. Russia's currency has come under intense pressure since US and European sanctions and falling oil prices started to hurt the economy. Revenues from the sale of oil and gas account for about 45pc of the Russian government's budget receipts. The biggest buyers of gold after Russia are other countries from the Commonwealth of Independent States, led by Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan. In total, central banks around the world bought 93 tonnes of the precious metal in the third quarter, marking it the 15th consecutive quarter of net purchases. In its report, the World Gold Council said this was down to a combination of geopolitical tensions and attempts by countries to diversify their reserves away from the US dollar. By the end of the year, central banks will have acquired up to 500 tonnes of gold during the latest buying spell, according to Alistair Hewitt, head of market intelligence at the World Gold Council. "Central banks have been consistently adding to their gold holdings since 2009," Mr Hewitt told the Telegraph. In the case of Russia, Mr Hewitt said that the recent increases in its gold holdings could be a sign of greater geopolitical risk that has arisen since it seized Crimea sparking a dispute with Ukraine and the West. Overall, the World Gold Council said that global demand for gold was down 2pc year-on-year to 929 tonnes in the third quarter amid signs that buying in China, one of the main markets, had tailed off. Jewellery demand in the quarter ending in September was down 39pc to 147 tonnes, signalling weaker consumer sentiment in the world's second-largest economy. However, demand for gold in India has rebounded sharply since the election earlier this year of prime minister Narendra Modi. Demand for jewellery in the world's most populous democracy grew by 60pc year-on-year to 183 tonnes in the third quarter. Gold prices have fallen about 7pc since October to trade at around $1,160 per ounce and the asset class is expected to post its second straight yearly loss. The precious metal has bounced since hitting a four-year low at the beginning of the week but sentiment remains weak despite the World Gold Council's latest outlook.  FREE AppDownload
All together, JPMorgan Chase has an over 200-year history.  As we've reported before, it played an indirect role in killing America's first Secretary of the Treasury, winning World War I, contributing to the 2008 financial crisis, and helping avert a more catastrophic financial disaster.  Naturally, people who work for a firm of such influence get paid quite well — judging by the self-reported salary and bonus numbers on Glassdoor, the job reviewing site.  As is the case with other big banks, bonuses can be gigantic at JPMorgan. For instance, the investment banking vice president salary is reported as $172,902, while bonuses nearly double the annual compensation to a sizeable $337,121.  According to Glassdoor, here's the combined compensation — annual salary and bonus — for 15 positions at JPMorgan, in ascending order:  FREE AppDownload
Researchers at the FAA Center of Excellence at Purdue University created a simulation showing the mechanics of a sneeze in airplane cabins.  Animation courtesy of ANSYS. Produced by Alex Kuzoian. Follow BI Video: On Facebook  
Thomson ReutersChina's President Xi Jinping and his wife Peng Liyuan arrive at the Gallery of Modern Art in Brisbane as he takes part in the G20 summitBEIJING (Reuters) - Chinese President Xi Jinping said on Saturday China's economy will maintain strong, sustainable and balanced growth, state media reported. Xi also said China will provide more demand and investment opportunities for the global economy as it undergoes structural reforms that foster opportunities for growth, according to the official Xinhua news agency. China's economy grew in the third quarter at its slowest pace since the global financial crisis, sparking concern that the world's second largest economy is faltering as the government tries to make it more driven by domestic consumption and less by exports and investment. Xi made the comments while at a two-day meeting of the G20 in Brisbane, Australia. Using his latest catchphrase, Xi said China's economy has entered a "new normal", there is plenty of growth momentum and development prospects are bright, Xinhua reported. China will also adopt the International Monetary Fund's (IMF) Special Data Dissemination Standards, Xi announced. These standards are applied to the release of economic and financial data, aimed at increasing transparency and openness in order to guide countries "that have, or that might seek, access to international capital markets in the provision of their economic and financial data to the public," according to the IMF website. China's provinces and regions frequently report economic growth much larger than national levels, causing doubts about the way data is compiled in China. China's government has vowed to tackle false reporting of economic data at the local level, but the sheer size of the country and the large number of local authorities makes this a daunting task.  (Reporting by Paul Carsten; Additional reporting by Koh Gui Qing; Editing by Sonya Hepinstall) FREE AppDownload
Geneva (AFP) - Banking giant UBS, one of six banks fined this week for attempting to manipulate foreign exchange markets, confirmed Saturday it was considering taking back bonuses from traders over the scandal. The bank confirmed a report in Financial Times stating that it was one of five fined banks looking into clawing back millions of dollars in bonuses from individual traders. A spokeswoman said the bank would especially aim to cancel the payment of deferred bonuses in cases where wrongdoing was found. Another of the fined banks, Royal Bank of Scotland Group (RBS), hinted it could take similar action.  "We are still working our way through disciplinary and accountability processes involving over 50 employees and their managers," RBS chief Ross McEwan said in a statement Friday. "While we will treat all people fairly, those who have been found lacking in conduct or accountability terms will be dealt with appropriately, including through claw back, award forfeiture, or through formal disciplinary procedures," he said. Along with RBS and UBS, British bank HSBC and US peers Citigroup and JPMorgan Chase were together slapped with $4.2 billion in fines by global regulators Wednesday. The hefty fines, unveiled in London, Washington and Zurich, followed a worldwide probe into the scandal over the $5.3-trillion-per-day forex market, around 40 percent of which takes place in the British capital. A string of scandals, including the rigging of the Libor interbank interest rate and product mis-selling, has damaged the reputation of major banks, already tainted by their roles in sparking the 2008 global financial crisis and subsequent worldwide recession. FREE AppDownload
Sharing a cup of Turkish coffee is a way of life across the Balkans, the Eastern Mediterranean and the Middle East. For centuries, this caffeine-concentrated beverage has been the fuel for lively political debate in conference rooms and cafes. A recent study published in Vascular Medicine suggests that it's not just good for relationship building, it's also good for you. Turns out the key is to boil your coffee — watch and learn how. Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis
REUTERSBack in 1939, Winston Churchill famously remarked that Russia was "a riddle wrapped in a mystery inside an enigma." For most people, his words ring true to this day. Although Russia is the largest country in the world and has the eighth-largest GDP, little is widely known about the nation and its culture. Because Russia has increasingly made international headlines, it's a good idea to know a few things about the country. To help you out, we've compiled a list of some of the craziest facts about the Russian language, culture, politics, and statistics. FREE AppDownload
Ray Dalio has been called "Wall Street's Oddest Duck" for his highly unusual approach to management, but no one has ever questioned his brilliance. He turned his company Bridgewater Associates into the world's largest hedge fund, with $160 billion in assets, and amassed a personal fortune estimated at around $15.2 billion. Dalio runs Bridgewater according to the theory of "radical transparency," which means that all meetings and interviews are recorded and archived, and any level of employee is encouraged to criticize another if necessary. Every Bridgewater employee is given a copy of the 123-page manual he wrote on leadership. It includes a section in which Dalio outlines the habits he believes took him from a lower-middle class childhood to one of the most powerful people in finance. We've summarized them below: Dalio writes that he hated school as a boy because he could not find practical applications for things he was forced to memorize. He decided that he wanted to be successful, requiring him to be motivated. And to be motivated, he had to work for himself. He started delivering newspapers, mowing lawns, and caddying, and at the age of 12 he made his first investment in the stock market. "All the work I ever did was just what I needed to do to get what I wanted. Since I always had the prerogative to not strive for what I wanted, I never felt forced to do anything," Dalio writes. When he started investing as a kid, he began cutting out coupons from issues of Fortune magazine that could be mailed in for annual reports for Fortune 500 companies. He gathered as many as possible and took an amateur shot at figuring out the market. It's the same attitude he's taken toward managing his employees. At this point, he's used to Bridgewater being called cultish and weird, but he's consistently responded by saying that the employees who work there naturally fit into the firm's unique culture. And it's certainly been working for them. Dalio says that as a novice investor, he started the habit of asking the opinion of anyone he deemed a somewhat savvy investor — his stockbroker, the people he caddied for, and even his barber. "I never cared much about others' conclusions — only for the reasoning that led to these conclusions," he writes. "That reasoning had to make sense to me. Through this process, I improved my chances of being right, and I learned a lot from a lot of great people." Dalio has grown Bridgewater so tremendously because he lowers his risk as much as possible before making a decision. "Sometimes when I know that I don't know which way the coin is going to flip, I try to position myself so that it won't have an impact on me either way. In other words, I don't make an inadvertent bet. I try to limit my bets to the limited number of things I am confident in," he writes. A major portion of Dalio's manual is dedicated to decision-making and analysis of results. He says that learning to appreciate failure early on was very valuable for him: I learned that each mistake was probably a reflection of something that I was (or others were) doing wrong, so if I could figure out what that was, I could learn how to be more effective. I learned that wrestling with my problems, mistakes, and weaknesses was the training that strengthened me. Also, I learned that it was the pain of this wrestling that made me and those around me appreciate our successes. You can check out all 123 pages of Dalio's principles at Bridgewater's site. FREE AppDownload
Have you ever been watching a sporting event when they cite something like this: “Over the course of the last 70 years the New York Giants are 10-0 when they have 3 or more sacks in a game”. Okay.  That sounds interesting.  It certainly fills the commentary.  But is this sort of commentary even remotely useful?  In most cases it’s statistically and historically irrelevant. First, the sample size is outrageously small.  No serious statistician would take a sample of 10 events and conclude that there’s a real meaningful deterministic output here. Second, the history of this data makes it practically irrelevant.  The 2014 New York Giants are not the 2011 or 1986 New York Giants. Third, the game in which this statistic might be cited is totally unique.  The previous games could have been against sub-par opponents or in unique environments.  Unless you can capture these statistical data points in a vacuum they are far more misleading than we think. The funny thing is, we see this in the investing world almost every day.  People love to cite historical data as if it somehow means something about the future returns.  The problem is, most of this is actually useless.  The current environment is nothing like past environments.  And citing a statistical data set where we have, MAYBE, a dozen relevant business cycles hardly makes the data useful. Probabilistic thinkers do not rely on irrelevant datasets to make choices about the future.  They might play some role, but smart probabilistic thinkers are naturally forward thinking.  They asses the world for what it is today and find highly probable outcomes based on those understandings.  Relying on historical data might give you some perspective about the future, but be very careful thinking that that alone will lead to positive future outcomes. FREE AppDownload
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Hedge funds scooped up shares of Chinese company Alibaba Group Holding in the third quarter, making the e-commerce giant one of the most commonly bought stocks among some of the country's biggest investors, according to regulatory filings on Friday. Among the institutional investors that took new stakes in Alibaba were Jana Partners, the $11 billion hedge fund run by Barry Rosenstein, Janus Capital Management, Tiger Management, Louis Bacon's Moore Capital Management and Leon Cooperman's Omega Advisors. Alibaba made its market debut in later September after a $25 billion initial public offering that ranked as the largest ever. Since pricing at $68 per share in the IPO, the stock has surged to about $115. The five hedge funds bought the following stakes in Alibaba: Janus Capital Management, 3.464 million shares; Tiger Management, led by Julian Robertson, one of the best-known hedge fund managers, 1.216 million shares, enough to make Alibaba the largest single holding listed on its 13F form filed with regulators on Friday; Moore Capital, 1.52 million shares; Omega Advisors, 410,000 shares; Jana, 300,000 shares. From Alibaba's market debut through the close of the third quarter on Sept. 30, the company's shares peaked at $99.70, suggesting, for example, that Janus paid at most $345.36 million for its stake. At the $68 IPO price, the same stake would have cost $235.55 million. Jana declined to comment. Janus, Tiger Management, Moore and Omega did immediately not respond to requests for comment. Alibaba did not immediately return a request for comment. While many stocks struggle after hype-laden debuts, Alibaba has advanced. Mark Yusko, head of the $4 billion Morgan Creek Asset Management, told Reuters last month that the shares could more than double in the next three years, which could vault Alibaba past Apple Inc's current valuation, which ranks it as the world's biggest publicly traded company. Yusko said Morgan Creek has bought Alibaba steadily, both before and as the company went public. Last week, Alibaba founder Jack Ma, who is also the executive chairman, said the company's finance services arm "will definitely go public," and is looking at a mainland China listing for the e-commerce company's crown jewel. Alipay, part of Alibaba's Ant Financial Services Group, is the lifeblood of the company's e-commerce network and China's dominant online payment processor, making it in the eyes of some analysts one of the most valuable assets in the Alibaba universe. Friday's 13F filings provide a window onto the strategies of some of the world's biggest investors. But the view is limited. The documents look back to the previous quarter, and they do not disclose short positions. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission sometimes allows managers not to disclose sensitive positions.   (Additional reporting by Sam Forgione and Svea Herbst-Bayliss; Editing by Jennifer Ablan and Leslie Adler) FREE AppDownload
With Apple at record highs, its market capitalization is now bigger than Russia's entire stock market (the 20th largest market in the world). What's more, as Bloomberg notes, there would be enough money left over after selling Apple and buying Russia to purchase over 190 million contract-free 64Gb iPhone6 Pluses (enough for every Russian). Via Zero Hedge As Bloomberg adds, If you owned Apple Inc., and sold it, you could purchase the entire stock market of Russia, and still have enough change to buy every Russian an iPhone 6 Plus. ... Russia, the 20th largest among the world's major markets, is not the only one Apple has surpassed. The company, which forecasts a record holiday-sales quarter and has $155 billion in cash, is also bigger than 17th-ranked Singapore and 18th-ranked Italy. FREE AppDownload
NEW YORK (Reuters) - James Lebenthal, the U.S. municipal bond market's biggest champion and most eloquent spokesman, died following a heart attack at age 86, his daughter said on Friday. Lebenthal became a force in the New York municipal bond market in the late 1970s, selling to retail investors for decades via radio and TV commercials. "No one loved municipal bonds and their value as the tool for rebuilding America more than Dad," his daughter, Alexandra Lebenthal, said by email. "He was a Wall Street legend and his legacy will live on." He advocated for the bonds in the 1980s and 1990s, when the industry was besieged by lawmakers and regulators who wanted to end their tax-exempt status. "He was a giant of our industry," said Richard Ciccarone, head of Iowa-based Merritt Research Services. "He provided a lot of good will for the industry on telling people not just about the tax value but how munis were used to serve America." Though his firm was focused on the Middle Atlantic region, “his presence was felt throughout America,” Ciccarone said in a telephone interview. Lebenthal was one of the biggest cheerleaders of New York City debt as it was crawling out of its fiscal crisis in the 1970s. YouTube / Jeremy GoldsmithJames Lebenthal"At a time when New York City was down on its luck ... he gave New York municipal bond investors a sense of community by linking public finance with infrastructure and improvement," Stephen Winterstein, chief municipal strategist at Wilmington, Delaware-based Wilmington Trust Investment Advisors, said by phone. In old television and radio ads, he used lines such as "tax-free municipal bonds are my babies" and called himself "Built by Bonds Lebenthal." He glorified munis as "the nuts and bolts that make New York great," showing images of the South Bronx rebuilding its once burned-out buildings using munis. He was also a filmmaker and an adman, starring in short animated films about munis with titles such as "Lord Love a Turnpike." James Lebenthal was the son of Louis and Sayra Lebenthal, who founded the Lebenthal company in 1925. He was succeeded by daughter Alexandra at the helm of the business in 1995. The Lebenthals sold the company in 2001 to MONY Group, which was absorbed by Merrill Lynch in 2005. Alexandra and James Lebenthal bought the Lebenthal name back from Merrill in 2007 and Alexandra Lebenthal remains at the helm of the company.   (Reporting by Megan Davies, Hilary Russ and Jack Doran; Editing by James Dalgleish and Jonathan Oatis) FREE AppDownload
(Reuters) - Activist investor Starboard Value LP disclosed stakes in Yahoo Inc and AOL Inc on Friday, nearly two months after it urged the two companies to merge. Starboard disclosed a 7.7 million share stake in Yahoo and a 1.9 million share stake in AOL. This translates to a 0.8 percent stake in Yahoo and a 2.5 percent stake in AOL, according to Thomson Reuters data. Starboard in September sent a letter to Yahoo, saying a merger with AOL could create up to $1 billion in "synergies" by reducing overlaps in online display advertising and other overhead costs.   (Reporting by Anya George Tharakan in Bangalore; Editing by Sriraj Kalluvila) FREE AppDownload
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Billionaire activist investor Carl Icahn increased his stake in e-commerce company eBay Inc. while booking more profits from his stake in Netflix Inc. in the third quarter, a regulatory filing showed on Friday. Icahn increased his stake in eBay by 15 million shares to a total of 45.8 million shares as of the end of September, up from 31 million at the end of June. He cut his stake in Netflix, the streaming video company, by 353,000 shares to 1.4 million shares, a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission showed. Icahn's eBay stake, which represents about 3.7 percent of the company's outstanding shares, would be worth about $2.5 billion as of Friday's closing stock price of $54.36. EBay agreed in late September to spin off its PayPal business next year. EBay Chief Executive John Donahoe had resisted Icahn's calls for a PayPal split earlier this year and led a months-long campaign to convince investors that the company should remain intact. Icahn's cut to his Netflix stake proved prescient. The company's shares plunged 25 percent to $333.53 in after-hours trading on Oct. 15 after Netflix reported fewer video streaming subscribers than forecast in the third quarter. Icahn, who reported a 10 percent stake in Netflix in October 2012, has periodically cashed in on that winning bet, in which his firm acquired Netflix shares for an average price of $58. He sold 3 million shares in October 2013 to book between $700 million and $800 million in profits. Netflix shares closed up 1.7 percent at $386.04 on Friday. Icahn, who reported a 6.6 percent stake in media company Gannett Co. on Aug. 14 and an 8.48 percent stake in Hertz Global Holdings Inc. on Sept. 9, kept those stakes unchanged through the end of September. His stakes in Apple Inc. and Herbalife, were unchanged from the previous quarter. Icahn is Herbalife's top shareholder with an 18.52 percent stake. Icahn, who takes large stakes in companies and pushes for management change, was not immediately available for comment.   (Reporting by Sam Forgione; Editing by Jennifer Ablan and Leslie Adler) FREE AppDownload
(Reuters) - The planned closure of the Trump Taj Mahal Casino in Atlantic City will occur within four weeks, as it joins four other gambling establishments that have shut their doors this year in the faltering New Jersey resort city, according to court papers filed on Friday. Trump Entertainment Resorts Inc, which operates the Taj Mahal, filed for bankruptcy in September as it outlined plans to close the casino, which has suffered declining gambling revenue and falling occupancy in its 2,000 rooms, around Nov. 13. The Taj Mahal this year had more than 3,000 workers on its payroll. That closure plan was delayed after the company won court approval to cut pension and benefits of employees of the establishment modeled after the Taj Mahal monument in India. State and local governments have balked at offering tax concessions. Attorneys for Trump Entertainment Resorts said in papers filed in federal bankruptcy court on Friday that because the owners of the casino "had not obtained the tax relief and incentives" they had sought, the company's board of directors approved closing it around Dec. 12. Atlantic City's casinos have lost their appeal and gambling dollars to dozens of rivals in other U.S. states, with gaming revenue nearly half its 2006 peak of $5.2 million. "I am very sorry to hear that the Trump Taj Mahal has decided to close on Dec. 12," Atlantic City Mayor Don Guardian said in a statement. "I know this is a very difficult time for all the employees who will be losing their jobs. I want them to know that the city of Atlantic City did everything they could to help keep the Trump Taj Mahal open. However, they still must pay their fair of taxes, just like our residents do," he added. Four other Atlantic City casinos, including the Trump Plaza which was operated by the owner of the Trump Taj Mahal, have already closed in 2014. The year began with 12 casinos in the city that is the second-largest U.S. gambling destination after Las Vegas. Donald Trump founded Trump Entertainment but no longer controls the company.   (Reporting by Alex Dobuzinskis in Los Angeles; Editing by Mohammad Zargham) FREE AppDownload
