REUTERS/Hans DerykIt's not worth it to buy a fake.Collecting luxury watches is an expensive hobby. With some brands costing upward of $1 million, it can be tempting to try to find the best deals out there. But collectors have to be very careful — counterfeit watches are not only flooding the market, but they keep getting more and more convincing. “The prices of counterfeit watches seem to be getting more expensive all the time,” Timothy Gordon, a generalist appraiser and a consulting expert for the global online marketplace Lofty, told Business Insider. “As with anything fine, if there’s money involved, the counterfeiters are certainly on the trail.” Gordon has been in the appraisal business for 25 years and even runs his own company, Timothy Gordon Appraisers. Below are his top tips for spotting and avoiding counterfeit luxury watches. REUTERS/Keith BedfordLook up past auction records to see what your watch model should look like.Before you even think about buying a luxury watch, you need to do ample research on the brand and the models you’re interested in buying. “When you’re looking at potential counterfeit watches, you have to inform yourself as to what a real one is like,” Gordon told Business Insider. “You need to know what it feels like, looks like, how much it weighs, and what it sounds like.” You can easily search top brands and models online to get a feel for the watch, but another great resource is the records from top auction houses, whose bread and butter is spotting fake watches.  “When you look at the records of Christie’s, Sotheby’s, Heritage Auctions, or Bonhams, those people have been in the business for decades and decades,” Gordon said. “Go into their auction result databases because you’re going to find past watch models that you can familiarize yourself with alongside photos and pricing. That will give you an accurate idea of what to expect from the real thing.”  Gordon advises buyers to be ready to match and identify these five factors: REUTERS/Enrique Castro-MendivilKnow whom you're buying your watch from.Obviously if someone leads you into a dark ally and tries to sell you a Rolex, chances are that watch is a fake. But it can be harder to spot a shady deal from seemingly trustworthy sellers. Not only do you have to research the watch itself, but it’s imperative that you research your dealer, too.  “Look for an established dealer with a good reputation,” Gordon said. “Buying a watch from a reputable business that’s more expensive is always better than buying a cheaper version from an untrustworthy merchant.” At the end of the day, it’s the seller’s guarantee that matters. REUTERS/Denis BalibouseA rare pink gold perpetual chronograph by Patek Philippe is displayed alongside its paperwork.Not every vintage watch will come with a certificate of authenticity, but you’ll feel a whole lot better if it does. “When watches don’t have paperwork, that could be because in the past buyers of watches have separated the paperwork from the timepiece,” Gordon said. “But I always like to see watches with certificates, matching serial numbers, and boxes.”  Not only does the paperwork provide a tangible history of the piece, but it can quantify the value of the watch and make it worth much more in the long run, too. Business Insider VideoEvery vintage watch has a history.Speaking of the watch’s history, if your seller doesn’t know the vintage watch’s provenance (history of ownership), that’s a bad sign.  “Check into the history of the watch’s ownership,” Gordon said. “If it’s coming from a private dealer or collector, is it an estate piece? Ask who had it before, or where it was located. Some dealers will want to be confidential, but every authentic vintage watch has a past.” REUTERS/Denis BalibouseIf it's too good to be true, it probably is.Low Prices: "Let’s say that you’re being offered a watch, and the price is way below what those auctioneers are getting,” Gordon told us. “Ask yourself, 'Why is it so low?' If a beautiful Cartier sold at an auction house for $100,000 and you’re being told $50,000, question why you're getting such a good deal." Quick Deals: Don't ever feel rushed into making a luxury watch purchase. If a seller seems in a hurry, that's a bad sign. "You don't want to go buy a watch from a Saturday night liquidation sale without doing your due diligence," Gordon said. "Slow down and don't just pull the trigger without doing any research."  And as always, when it seems too good to be true, it probably is. "Sure, there's a one and a million chance that you might walk into an antique mall and find a super valuable watch just sitting in there, but buyer beware," Gordon said. FREE AppDownload
Joerg Koch/Getty Images Barbie sales are still tumbling.Barbie dolls are losing favor with kids.  Sales of Mattel's signature doll dropped a whopping 21% last quarter, reports Matt Townsend at Bloomberg News. Revenue has declined more than 10% for the last four quarters.  Mattel executives highlighted a few reasons that the iconic dolls are declining in popularity in an earnings call with investors.  They also hinted at the future of Barbie, which CEO Bryan Stockton said is "still the number one dollar brand in the world" thanks to an empire of books, movies, clothing, and games.  Here's why fewer girls are buying the dolls.  The popularity of tablets, smartphones, and games is taking market share from Barbie dolls, Townsend writes. As kids increasingly spend their allowances on technology, plastic dolls aren't as exciting.  To deal with this shift, Mattel has been offering a variety of Barbie apps, computer games, and movies. The brand also sells a Barbie digital "makeover mirror" which allows girls to apply make-up to a Barbie doll's face.   Kohl'sBarbie's makeover mirror. Monter High dolls are "cannibalizing" Barbie sales as girls opt for the edgier toys, company executives said last year.  Mattel created Monster High in 2010, and sales have been skyrocketing ever since they hit shelves. The dolls are inspired by famous monsters like Dracula, the Mummy, Medusa, and Frankenstein's monster, and retail for around $20 each (compared with around $10 for Barbie).  Monster High is "all about celebrating your differences," company execs said on the call, adding that the franchise appeals to both younger and older girls.  ReutersMonster High dolls are taking market share from Barbie. CEO Stockton said that the dolls needed a makeover to appeal to young girls.  "The dolls look better this year than they did last year," Stockton said.  While he didn't elaborate on details, the new dolls appear to have thicker, glossier hair and bigger eyes than the dolls offered last year.  The proportions also appear to be more similar to Monster High dolls, with a bigger head and smaller body. It's unclear whether this makeover will have an impact on sales. Toys R UsMattel says it made over Barbie dolls this year. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersShopping trolleys are seen at a Tesco Express in southwest LondonLONDON (Reuters) - The world's third largest retailer, Tesco, will state next week that it overestimated earnings by less than the 250 million pounds which it previously announced, Sky news reported on Saturday, citing an unnamed banking source. Sky said on its website that when the firm reports its delayed first-half results next Thursday, the gap would fall "somewhere close to the middle" between 200 million and 250 million pounds ($322 million and $402 million). Tesco was not immediately available for comment when contacted by Reuters on Saturday. The 95-year-old supermarket chain is suffering its worst ever crisis after issuing three profit warnings in 64 days this year. It said in September that an accounting mistake had over-valued first-half profits by 250 million pounds. The firm is expected to update the market on Thursday into the progress of its own investigation into the error being conducted by auditors Deloitte and law firm Freshfields. Over the last year Tesco's big out-of-town stores have lost favor as shoppers buy more produce locally and online, while discounters Aldi and Lidl and upmarket chains Waitrose and Marks &amp; Spencer squeeze the middle ground. Sky also reported, without citing its sources, that Tesco had asked the investment bank Greenhill to field offers from parties interested in buying assets, including the customer data specialist Dunnhumby. Greenhill was not immediately available for comment when contacted by Reuters. On Friday, CEO Dave Lewis told staff in an internal e-mail seen by Reuters that he expects to be able to give a "clear and accurate indication" of the impact of the accounting mistake when the company reports its results later this week. He also told staff that the performance in its core food business would be "one of our strongest for a very long time". Tesco's interim results on Thursday will cover the six months to Aug. 23.  (1 US dollar = 0.6214 British pound)  (Reporting By Costas Pitas; Editing by Stephen Powell) FREE AppDownload
StreetEasyReal estate can be a tricky business. A million bucks in one city doesn't necessarily equal a million bucks somewhere else. New York City would fall into that "somewhere else" category. Take this 830-square-foot town home in Brooklyn. Two bedrooms and two full baths are squeezed into a two-floor layout designed to maximize the obviously limited space. The home is nicely appointed with all the latest amenities and the view is amazing (see photo above).  Even so, it's shocking to see the current asking price at $1.025 million. That's $1,235 per square foot. The Big Apple, though, is a huge and diverse city. From borough to borough and even block to block, real estate valuations can swing wildly -- but even considering that, New York City commands far higher prices than the typical U.S. city. This one-bedroom, one-bath modern apartment on Wall Street is about 25% larger than the Brooklyn apartment mentioned above, and the asking price is $30,000 lower. The price works out to $944 per square foot, 24% cheaper than the Brooklyn comparison property on a square-foot basis. This apartment building also features a few extra amenities, including a gym. That's a little bit more bang for your buck, but it's still $944 per square foot! For those looking at purchasing a home in New York City, the broader economic data shows great news on the one hand, and a disappointing reality on the other. via The Motley Fool First of all, the New York City area real estate market has performed quite well over the past 10 years. The Case-Shiller Home Price Index for the city has consistently outperformed other major U.S. metro areas since the real estate bubble imploded. That means home prices did not fall quite as far as those in Miami, Phoenix, or elsewhere. That's the good news for homeowners in NYC. However, other major metropolitan areas have rebounded much more strongly since 2012. As the chart below demonstrates, the Case-Shiller 20-City Composite Home Price Index is more than double the price appreciation in New York City.  via The Motley Fool So what do you get when you buy property in New York City? More than anything else, you get stability. The nation's most populous city has a robust real estate market, with plenty of demand driving prices above national averages and keeping them there when problems arise in the general real estate market. Sure, you might have to fork over $1 million or more just to buy a tiny one-bedroom apartment, but at least you can rest easy knowing your equity in the home is more stable than if you put your hard-earned dollars into a home in another market. Jay Jenkins has no position in any stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool recommends Goldman Sachs. The Motley Fool owns shares of JPMorgan Chase. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days. We Fools may not all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. FREE AppDownload
A mortgage is considered "good debt," meaning it's a debt that could be considered an investment in yourself. By paying this debt, you're securing a place to live. That's not to say that a mortgage isn't serious. According to credit bureau Experian, the average amount of money owed on a mortgage in the US is over $157,000, ranging from an average of about $93,000 in West Virginia to an intimidating $275,000 in Washington, D.C. Using data provided to Business Insider by Experian's Decision Analytics group, we made a map showing the average mortgage balance — how much is still owed on existing mortgages — per account in each state: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Experian Decision Analytics Here's a table showing the average balance for each state, along with the average for the US as a whole: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Experian Decision Analytics
Cultures from rats caught in four Manhattan buildings and a park surprised even pathologists. This video originally appeared on Slate Video. Watch More: slate.com/video Dallas Jensen is a regular video contributor to Slate. Follow Slate: On YouTube
Associated PressBecause of technology like this.While I believe that the Federal Reserve (Fed) is likely to begin raising rates sooner than the market expects, rates are still likely to be low for long. What do I mean by that? I expect that the pace of rate normalization will be slower than in past hiking cycles and more importantly, that the ultimate destination of rates will be lower than in previous periods of rate hikes. While there are many reasons behind my longer-term rate outlook, including the pace of economic growth and the Fed’s targeted objectives, one reason in particular is worth highlighting: Technological change. As my fellow authors and I write in our new BlackRock Investment Institute paper, Interpreting Innovation, the rapid pace of technological change today is helping to put a lid on U.S. job and wage growth. As a result, given that the Fed is focused on slack in the U.S. labor market as a rate-hike gauge, its next tightening cycle is likely to be gentler than in the past – with rates peaking at a lower level So what do I mean by technological change? Inventions are moving from the drawing board to widespread use faster than ever before. Repetitive tasks in manufacturing are now performed mostly by machines, and we could be at a tipping point in adoption of robotic technology, which is getting cheaper and smarter. At the same time, it’s hard to miss the ongoing exponential increases in computer power, machine learning and data analysis capabilities. There already are signs these changes are impacting growth in the jobs market – and are likely to continue to do so. Robots are becoming competitive with low-cost labor in many industries. Enhanced computing power and cheaper components such as sensors have broadened the potential for automation. In fact, software and algorithms are starting to replace humans even in professions that need cognitive skills (think insurance claims processing and legal research). By many measures, labor markets in the U.S., U.K. and Japan have been on the mend since the financial crisis, as our BlackRock Jobs Barometer shows. But thanks to the technology-related productivity gains that require fewer workers, structural unemployment remains elevated and broad-based wage growth is suppressed. The upshot: If automation and computerization are dampening jobs growth, then employment may not return to previous peaks any time soon. In other words, the hurdles holding back the labor market may be structural rather than cyclical, and will require fiscal, rather than monetary, policy solutions. I believe that the Fed will eventually come around to this point of view. If the Fed believes that unemployment is mostly cyclical, it may wait to raise rates. Yet the central bank could be waiting a very long time for displaced workers to re-enter the labor force. Wages (and inflation) could start to rise in pockets of the economy – despite some employment gauges still showing plenty of slack. The central bank could then fall behind the curve – and eventual rate rises would be fast and furious. In contrast, if the Fed believes weakness in the labor market is structural, as I believe it will ultimately decide, it would likely raise rates earlier than markets expect, but rate hikes would be gradual – and shallower. This is the scenario I expect to occur. In addition, soft nominal growth means the destination for the fed funds rate will likely be lower than in the past; I believe the ceiling will be near a 3% neutral funds rate versus the historic 4%. To be sure, it’s hard to predict the exact impact that technology will have on the job market, and there are factors that could arrest the long-term downtrend in rates. However, demand from pension funds and the like, along with limited supply, should also help cap any big rises in long-term interest rates. Source: BlackRock Research Rick Rieder, Managing Director, is BlackRock’s Chief Investment Officer of Fundamental Fixed Income, is Co-head of Americas Fixed Income, and is a regular contributor to The Blog. You can find more of his posts here. This material represents an assessment of the market environment at a specific time and is not intended to be a forecast of future events or a guarantee of future results. This information should not be relied upon by the reader as research or investment advice regarding the funds or any security in particular. ©2014 BlackRock, Inc. All rights reserved. iSHARES and BLACKROCK are registered trademarks of BlackRock, Inc., or its subsidiaries. All other marks are the property of their respective owners.  FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Francisco OsorioJust because you aren't an expert investor doesn't mean you can't learn.Do you have a large amount of cash savings, but not much put into invested accounts for retirement? If so, you’re not alone. A majority of Millennials prefer to keep their assets in cash and don’t trust the idea of putting money into the market. That’s not too surprising, since many members of Gen Y started life “in the real world” right before or during the Great Recession. We saw our parents retirement accounts crash and burn and we know people who lost it all. But here’s the thing: investing is still important. One of the biggest risks to investing for millennials is inflation risk, which means that if your rate of return doesn’t outpace inflation, you’re actually losing money. Leaving everything in cash over the period of your working life — just like you should leave your contributions in your invested retirement accounts over your career — will leave you with cash that’s less valuable in the future than it was when you put it in savings. That’s due to inflation, and investing wisely can help you avoid losing a chunk of your nest egg to it. If you’re in Gen Y and aren’t so sure about investing or the stock market, start with educating yourself. That’s the first step to feeling empowered with your finances and your investments. To get you going, review and learn these 17 investing terms all Millennials should understand: 1. ROI. Short for “return on investment.” Is a measurement that refers to the gain or loss experienced relative to the amount invested and is often expressed as a percent. ROI is calculated by dividing the gain (or loss) by the cost of the investment. Example: An investment of $1,000 grows to $1,100 would generate an ROI of 10% ($100/$1,000 x 100). 2. Compound interest. Compounding means that when interest is initially calculated on the principal amount invested, the added interest can then also earn interest. 3. 401(k). A retirement savings account that takes advantage of a specific tax code to allow deductions (i.e. deposits) to be made from your paycheck on a before tax basis.  Example: If your gross pay is $900 and your 401k deduction is $100, your taxes for that paycheck are calculated on $800 instead of $900. Some employers will also make contributions on behalf of employees (called “matching contributions”). There is a limit set each year to how much can be deposited. Earnings and deposits grow on a tax-free basis until withdrawn. 4. Roth IRA. A Roth Individual Retirement Account is a type of retirement savings vehicle. Unlike a traditional IRA, contributions  to a Roth IRA do not receive an upfront tax deduction. Therefore, you can withdraw your funds tax-free in retirement since you already paid taxes when you put the money in. Another important thing to note is that you can withdraw your contributions at any time (just not the gain). Note: If you’re wondering if you should contribute to a Roth IRA or a 401(k), this post might help you! Flickr / lilie MéloYou should know the difference between a 401(k) and Roth IRA. 5. Certificate of deposit (CD). No, I’m not talking about those compact discs I bought in high school (yes, this ages me). A CD is a type of savings account offered by a financial institution. In exchange for keeping savings in the account for a specified period of time (i.e. 1 year, 5 years, etc.) often times a higher interest rate is given than you would earn on your savings account. 6. Money market account. A type of savings account offered through many banks and credit unions that pays higher interest, but also may require higher account balances or other restrictions, like the number of withdrawals you can make each month. However, two of my favorite money market accounts are at online banks: Ally Bank and CapitalOne 360. 7. Liquidity. The ability to cash out of an investment easily. Cash in your checking or savings account is the easiest to access. Money in investments needs to be sold before it can be accessed and it takes a few days for trades to settle and the cash to become available. 8. Stocks. When you own a stock, you own a piece of that company. A stock offers ‘shares’ of a public corporation, so you can take partial ownership and profit off of the company’s earnings. 9. Bonds. This is a debt security, where the investor loans money to government or corporate entities. In exchange, companies provide interest payments at predetermined intervals and pay back the loan in full. Flickr / Hiii FiiiBears and bulls aren't only animals. 10. Bear or bull market. A metaphor used to describe the investor environment primarily related to the stock market. A bear swiping its paws downward indicates a downward market; lowering of stock prices, investor pessimism, and lack of confidence. A bull with its horns pointing upward indicates investor optimism and confidence as well as a rise in stock prices. 11. Diversification. An investment strategy that in effect avoids “putting all of your eggs in one basket.” Using this strategy, investors have a variety of investments such as stocks, bonds, money market funds to minimize risk. 12. Buy and hold. A type of investment strategy where investors buy stocks and hold onto them, using the philosophy that long-term gains provide a nice return, regardless of short-term volatility or declines in the market. 13. Mutual fund. Mutual funds pool funds together from several investors which are then used to buy stocks, bonds or other securities which are managed by a professional fund manager. Flickr/Christopher MichelOnce a company holds an IPO, outside investors can buy shares. 14. Initial public offering. Also referred to as an IPO. An IPO occurs when a private company transforms into a public company and starts to sell shares of stocks to outside investors. 15. Dividend. A payment of profits, typically quarterly, to shareholders who invest in a company. 16. Inflation. An increase in the price and value of goods and services, often represented as an annual percentage. 17. Expense ratio. Expressed as a percent, the expense ratio is the annual operating expenses for a fund for such things as administrative, operating and management fees divided by the value of assets under management. There are a lot of terms related to investing, but starting to learn the basics will help you have a better grasp on your financial life and give you confidence to invest in your future. If  you want to keep reading and learning, be sure to check out Investopedia. It’s a virtual content library and a great resource for anyone eager to find the answers to their questions. Do you have specific questions about investing terms, or getting started with investing? You can schedule a call with me and we can chat more about your specific financial situation and questions. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Rick Wilking The company plans to open between 60 and 70 supercenters in fiscal 2016, down from 120 new locations in fiscal 2015, the company said Wednesday during a presentation to investors.   "It's important for us to really think about these big boxes," Wal-Mart US CEO Greg Foran said, referring to the supercenter stores.  He said Wal-Mart is putting a new emphasis on "quality not quantity" when it comes to their biggest stores. "We know that we can do better with the [supercenters]," he said. "We're going to lean in there, and we're going to get that right. We're being thoughtful." Wal-Mart's supercenters suffered a .3% same-store sales decline in the second quarter compared with last year. During the same period, foot traffic for Wal-Mart's U.S. stores fell by 1.1%. By comparison, Wal-Mart's smaller-format stores, or Neighborhood Markets, generated same-store sales growth of 5.6% and traffic increased by 4.1%. "I'm encouraged by the positive [same-store sales] I am seeing in the Neighborhood Markets," Foran said. "Customers love the convenience." As a result, Wal-Mart is accelerating the growth of its Neighborhood Market stores from 105 new locations in fiscal 2014 to 170 new locations in fiscal 2015 and up to 200 additional stores the following year. The Neighborhood Markets are about one-fifth the size of Wal-Mart's supercenters, and they are located in urban centers — where incomes tend to be higher — while supercenters are typically located on city outskirts.  Wal-Mart Groceries account for 56% of Wal-Mart's sales, and research shows that consumers no longer buy all their food and beverages at supersized retailers. "In the 1990s and the beginning years of this century, the greatest threat to supermarkets and grocery stores came from supersized 'one-stop shopping' venues like supercenters and warehouse clubs," the market research firm Packaged Facts wrote in its most recent annual report on emerging grocery trends. "Today the threat is spread out among all retail channels, including drugstores, dollar stores, limited assortment chains, and — the elephant in the room — e-commerce." On average, consumers shop at five different types of stores to fulfill their grocery needs, according to Deloitte's 2013 American Pantry report. Consumers are carrying this shopping behavior over to other product categories, as well. Instead of relying on a single retailer to give them the best value and assortment, "consumers appear more focused on some combination of value and convenience," Goldman Sachs analysts wrote in a recent research note predicting the slow decline of big-box retailers like Wal-Mart and Target. That doesn't mean Wal-Mart is going to start shutting down its supercenters, however.  "Supercenters still have one of the highest returns of any [store] format in the company," Wal-Mart CFO Charles Holley said on a call with reporters in August. "It would be silly to close a lot of stores with good returns." FREE AppDownload
Credit Suisse released a huge report on the distribution of global wealth. Among lots of other interesting results, like that the social democracies of Scandinavia are less equal than much of the rest of Europe, the 2014 "Global Wealth Report" includes data on the share of national wealth owned by the top 10% of the populations of a number of countries. Here's the percentage share of wealth owned by the top 10% in the countries included in Credit Suisse's study: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Credit Suisse Russia's top 10% owns an incredible 84.8% of that country's wealth. On the opposite end of the scale, only two countries' top 10% own less than half of national wealth: Belgium at 47.2% and Japan at 48.5%. The development of wealth inequality over the last few years is also interesting. Here's the change in the wealth share of the top 10% between 2000 and 2014. Countries in blue saw the top decile's share shrink, while the elites of the countries in red had their shares grow: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Credit Suisse The wealth shares of the top 10% grew dramatically since the turn of the century in a number of emerging markets like Egypt and China, while declining in places as diverse as Canada, Saudi Arabia, and Poland. In Peru, the US, and Australia, there was no change in the wealth share over this time period. Here's the income share of the top ten percent in each country, and the change in that share between 2000 and 2014: Credit Suisse For more insights on the state of wealth in the world, check out the report here.
Douglas Elliman Real EstateA New York financier and his wife have listed their stunning Tribeca townhouse for $48 million, according to The Wall Street Journal. The home belongs to financier Mark Zittman and his wife, the WSJ reports. The 65-foot-wide mansion was created by real estate developer and entrepreneur Steven Schnall, who converted two older buildings into a singular townhouse to create the 11,300-square-foot home with a 65-foot-wide interior.  The urban mansion has basically everything you could ever want out of a home: six floors, seven bedrooms, seven full bathrooms, four power rooms, two staircases, multiple skylights, a wood-paneled elevator, a media room, and a three-car garage.  Oh, not to mention a 50-foot-long heated indoor swimming pool. Douglas Elliman Real Estate has the gorgeous listing. 
Thomson ReutersNEW YORK (Reuters) - It is a tossup whether the market found a bottom this week, but bulls could find some support as corporations, mostly on the sidelines as the market tumbled, step up their stock purchases in the coming weeks. The equities selloff had its climax on Wednesday afternoon when the S&amp;P 500 set its low for the week as concern over the global economy, conflicting views on the timing of the next policy move by the Federal Reserve, and headlines about the Ebola virus made investors even more skittish. One factor that could have accelerated the decline was that many U.S. companies were out of the corporate repurchase market as they headed into earnings season. "We are now in a blackout period so companies have been precluded from conducting tactical buyback activity that has supported the equity market during sell-offs in the recent past," said Goldman Sachs in a note earlier this week. October has been particularly quiet for buybacks by U.S. companies, with about $1.7 billion in stock repurchases announced or completed so far this month, compared with about $250 billion during the first nine months of the year, according to Thomson Reuters data. The recent market decline could give many companies the opportunity to buy back stock at bargain prices. On Thursday, 605 New York Stock Exchange issues hit 52-week lows, the most for a single day in three years, while just 21 hit 52-week highs. The number of lows fell to 153 on Friday. "If you truly believe your prospects are bright and you'd like to return capital to long term holders of your stock, it is an excellent time to buy back shares," said Kim Forrest, senior equity research analyst at Fort Pitt Capital Group in Pittsburgh. "It would seem stupid to let this opportunity pass." November buybacks would by no means be a novelty. Goldman Sachs data show that, in the last seven years excluding 2008, November accounted for about 14 percent of the yearly buyback activity, the most for any month. About 8 percent of buybacks happened in October during that period and 10 percent in December. The market is entering the busiest part of earnings season, with results due from 128 S&amp;P 500 companies, including six Dow components. "Next week is one of the busiest we have, so that unlocks a lot of buyback programs after that's over," said Art Hogan, chief market strategist at Wunderlich Securities in New York. He said the impact of those post-earnings buybacks has been consistent in the past years as "companies have been buying stock pretty aggressively." If buying ahead of what could be a good opportunity for companies themselves to purchase their stock is not a good enough reason, fundamentals are also on the bulls' side. Earnings for the S&amp;P 500 are now forecast to have risen 6.9 percent in the third quarter, up from last Friday's 6.5 percent estimate, while sales growth for the quarter is estimated at 3.8 percent, Thomson Reuters data showed.   (Reporting by Rodrigo Campos. Editing by Andre Grenon) FREE AppDownload
The old world tradition of adding butter to coffee has recently re-emerged as a performance enhancer embraced by the likes of Bulletproof Executive founder Dave Asprey and holistic health guru Andrew Weil.  Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis.  Follow BI Video: On Twitter
AP Images "Lack of leadership," he said.  "We have the worst president we ever had," Pickens said. "I mean, he's going to be determined the worst before he ever gets out of office. He accomplished a lot less in eight years. Nobody else has ever done that. You know, Jimmy Carter loves him because he was the worst until he showed up, Obama. The Democrats ought to scratch their head on the deal. They ought to screen their prospects or candidates better." Pickens, 86, also ripped into Obama for his workout routine calling it "pitiful."  New York Post Editor's note: An earlier version of this story misquoted Mr. Pickens as saying, "He accomplished a lot in less than eight years." The article has been updated to say, "He accomplished a lot less in eight years."    FREE AppDownload
ReutersThe modern gentleman doesn't just know where to go and how to dress — he knows how to think. The only way to do that, to learn how to make sense of the world with your mind, is to consider a lot of different thoughts. By and large, the best of those thoughts can be found in books that have stood the test of time. We have compiled a list of classics that can teach you how to think — about politics, love, philosophy, bravery — everything a man should know to face the world. All these books were written before 1980. You'll have to wait for another list for more recent reads. In the meantime, check these out. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe Federal Reserve Bank of Boston's President and CEO Eric S. Rosengren speaks during the "Hyman P. Minsky Conference on the State of te U.S. and World Economies", in New YorkBOSTON (Reuters) - A top Federal Reserve official said on Saturday that equality of opportunity is a worthy social goal that has not yet been achieved in the United States. Boston Fed President Eric Rosengren did not comment on monetary policy or the economic forecast in prepared remarks to a conference here on inequality. Building on comments on Friday by Fed Chair Janet Yellen, he said "concentrated, intergenerational poverty" suggests inequality of opportunity is a community issue that, studies show, can be alleviated by social and educational interventions. "While income inequality may be a somewhat controversial issue, most people – even most economists – agree that equality of opportunity is a worthy goal," he told a Boston Fed conference on the issue. "Yet society has fallen short in delivering on the goal of equality of opportunity."  (Reporting by Jonathan Spicer; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama) FREE AppDownload
