BOSTON (Reuters) - When Pimco co-founder Bill Gross' heir apparent abruptly stepped down this week, the news illustrated just how reliant the company is on its star manager, an uncomfortable fact for investors who worry the 69-year-old has not done enough to find a replacement. With Mohamed El-Erian, 55, resigning his position as chief executive and co-chief investment officer at the $2 trillion asset manager, all power now appears to be flowing back to Gross, who co-founded Pimco in 1971 and runs the $237 billion Total Return Fund, a mainstay in many retirement portfolios. Gross, a yoga enthusiast who shaved his mustache a few years ago to look younger, greeted the departure by dividing up El-Erian's roles among a few more men, and by saying he is not yet planning for life after investing in bonds. "Pimco's fully engaged. Batteries 110 percent charged," Gross said in a Twitter post from the firm's official "@PIMCO" account that still features a photo of Gross and El-Erian side by side. "I'm ready to go for another 40 years!" his tweet continued, a nod to the rigorous work ethic demanded by Gross, known among rivals and investors as the "Bond King." Portfolio managers at Pimco start their days at 4 a.m. and rarely speak on the firm's Newport Beach, California, trading floor, communicating instead by email to keep the noise down. El-Erian, a trained economist and one-time senior International Monetary Fund official known for his near daily appearances on cable television and wide-ranging market calls, landed back at Pimco seven years ago after leaving the bond house for a two-year stint as head of Harvard University's endowment. He first joined Pimco in 1999. Pimco parent Allianz &lt;ALVG.DE&gt; brought him back in part to "reduce the Bill Gross risk," said one investor who asked not to be named for fear of angering Gross. Even though Allianz quickly appointed Douglas Hodge as chief executive officer plus Andrew Balls and Daniel Ivascyn as deputy co-chief investment officers to replace El-Erian, analysts and investors agree that none are real contenders for Gross' job right now. "The problem is it takes a number of years to groom somebody like Mohamed," said Sean Egan, president of Egan-Jones Ratings Co. "It's difficult and Bill Gross is not getting any younger. From a public perception standpoint, the next couple years are going to be difficult." Pimco declined repeated requests to interview Gross, El-Erian or his newest lieutenants. The two deputy co-chief investment officers have managed billions of dollars, but nothing that compares to the Total Return fund. Ivascyn's $30 billion fund at Pimco, for example, amounts to less than 13 percent of Gross' main portfolio. "Heir apparent is not their label now," said Morningstar senior research analyst Eric Jacobson. Indeed Gross has said in media interviews following El-Erian's resignation that more deputies would be named in coming weeks, a sign his pool of potential successors is growing, not narrowing. Morningstar analysts said the list of new appointees could include portfolio managers and directors such as Curtis Mewbourne, Christian Stracke, Scott Mather and Tony Crescenzi, each a long-time bond market hand of one stripe or another. The group, Jacobson said, tends to skew relatively young and is somewhat split among those with strong backgrounds in economics, and those with more hands-on experience running portfolios. There appear to be few generalists who have the mix of skills one would expect to find in an heir to Gross, he said. "I can't think of any single person who would seem to be an obvious and ready candidate." For investors - especially the big name institutions - a clear succession plan has always been important, prompting even other iconic investors such as Warren Buffett, 83, to groom Todd Combs and Ted Weschler as potential successors. But at Pimco there is now no clear plan B. "Pimco investors should be worried," said Erik Gordon, professor of business and law at the University of Michigan. "There should be a succession plan that doesn't require Gross to be CEO at age 109," he said. TURNING THE TIDE For Pimco, the abrupt shift in management comes at a critical time just as the decades-long bull run in bonds appears to be ending, and the bond market's biggest influence, the Federal Reserve, is maneuvering to dial back its extraordinary policies that pushed bond yields to historic lows. Gross' Total Return fund had outflows of $42 billion, according to Lipper, and lost 1.92 percent last year. The fund underperformed 72 percent of comparable funds in 2013, data from Morningstar shows. Burton Greenwald, an industry consultant who runs Greenwald Associates, said: "Bill Gross is well along in age and at some point he is going to want to hang up his hat. After all he wasn't fixed income manager of the year last year, Dan Ivascyn was. This is a critical transition period for the firm as stocks are more on most investors' minds." Because El-Erian managed only a fraction of the assets Gross oversees, his departure is unlikely to trigger the kind of redemptions asset manager TCW faced when star manager Jeffrey Gundlach left. But it will raise questions, analysts said. Gross's calendar will likely be jam-packed with meetings for weeks as pension funds, endowments and others stream to Pimco's Newport Beach offices for an explanation of what is next. In the meantime, deputy co-chief investment officers, Ivascyn and Balls, are considered rising stars, and highly capable. Ivascyn, 44, a mortgage credit expert, has just been named Morningstar's fixed income manager of 2013 along with colleague Alfred Murata. Their Pimco Income fund gained 4.8 percent with the help of bets on nonagency mortgage-backed securities. Andrew Balls, a former journalist turned portfolio manager, has been Pimco's spokesman for the European debt crisis and has close ties in London where his brother, Edward Balls, is the Labour Party's shadow chancellor. It will fall to them, in part, to help Pimco bring in fresh money and turn the tide after last year's outflows. "Ivascyn has certainly demonstrated great skill as a portfolio manager," Michael Rosen, chief investment officer at Angeles Investment Advisors said, adding "but whether he can continue to do that while he's taking on increased responsibilities of being a deputy chief investment officer remains to be seen." (Additional reporting by Jennifer Ablan in Davos, Switzerland, and Luciana Lopez and Sam Forgione in New York; Editing by Richard Valdmanis, Dan Burns and Lisa Shumaker) FREE AppDownload
SEOUL (Reuters) - Samsung Electronics Co Ltd posted its first decline in quarterly profit in two years, hit by one-off special bonus as well as slowing smartphone sales as it braces for a year of tougher competition with rival Apple Inc. The world's biggest smartphone maker kept its full-year investment plan conservative and warned it would be difficult to increase earnings in the first quarter as demand pulls back from the year-end holiday period. October-December operating profit fell 6 percent on year to 8.3 trillion won ($7.7 billion), in line with a previous estimate of 8.3 trillion won, Samsung said in a statement on Friday. The figure was brought down by an 800 billion won ($745 million) special employee bonus to commemorate 20 years since Chairman Lee Kun-hee announced a management strategy that the company regards as the catalyst to its recent growth. It said a stronger won also hit profit, knocking off around 700 billion won. Shares of Samsung Electronics, worth $204 billion, edged up 0.4 percent after the earnings release, compared with the benchmark index which fell 0.3 percent. The stock has fallen 8 percent in the past month on concern over slowing smartphone growth. "It will be challenging for Samsung to improve its earnings in the first quarter as the weak seasonality of the IT industry will put pressure on demand for components and TV products," the company said in a statement. Samsung said its 2014 capital expenditure, a barometer of broader technology industry demand for manufacturing tools such as chip equipment, will be similar to 2013's 23.8 trillion won. Operating profit at its cash cow mobile division stood flat at 5.47 trillion won, but slipped 18 percent from July-September's record 6.7 trillion won as new iPhones drew away sales during the year-end holiday period. Operating profit from display unit Samsung Display tumbled 90 percent to 110 billion won as weaker-than-forecast sales of the Galaxy S4 left smartphone screens sitting in the inventory, while subdued sales of television sets also had an impact on TV screen shipments. (Reporting by Miyoung Kim; Editing by Christopher Cushing) FREE AppDownload
With the global elite gathered at Davos for the World Economic Forum, a groundbreaking new report released yesterday by the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists detailing the massive offshore holdings of many of China’s “princelings,” and the newly released results of the Hurun Report’s annual survey of China’s high-net-worth individuals, China’s wealthy are in the spotlight this week. Adding to this coverage is research firm Wealth-X, which has just released a white paper with eight predictions for China’s ultra-high-net-worth individuals in the upcoming Lunar New Year. According to the paper, the richest of China’s ultra-rich will grow their fortunes faster than their merely ultra-high-net-worth peers, and their assets will become more liquid in the coming year. They’re also going to be buying a huge number of new private jets and spending much more on luxury outside the mainland than they already are, according to its predictions. Here is the full list: 1. The population of Chinese UHNW individuals with net worth in excess of US$500 million will grow by almost 6% to 535 individuals, while the growth of the Chinese UHNW population is expected to stagnate. 2. Chinese UHNW individuals with net worth in excess of US$500 million will experience 4% growth in wealth to US$630 billion. Total Chinese UHNW wealth is expected to increase by only 2%. 3. Despite this performance, China’s total UHNW population and wealth will exceed Japan’s by 2026, the next Year of the Horse. 4. The liquidity of the average Chinese UHNW individual will increase from 12% to nearly 14% of net worth, still lower than the world average of 25%. 5. The proportion of Chinese UHNW individuals deriving their wealth from industrial conglomerates will increase from 5.5% to 6.5%. 6. 18% more of Chinese UHNW individuals’ luxury spending will be done outside Greater China (i.e. China, Taiwan, Hong Kong) this year, primarily in American and European markets. 7. The Chinese private jet market for UHNW individuals will grow by 30% in 2014. 8. Currently, only 1,050 UHNW individuals are non-resident Chinese living outside Greater China. This population will grow by 8% this year to 1,135. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
RBA Veteran market strategist Rich Bernstein recently published his list of three secular investment themes. Among them: the American Industrial Renaissance. "Small and mid-cap US-focused industrial and manufacturing companies are gaining market share," he said. One of the more talked-about forces at play in the American Industrial Renaissance is the decreasing competitiveness of Chinese labor costs. Many of us are used to hearing our parents and grandparents tell us about how all of the manufacturing jobs have been shipped to China. But with the standard of living rising so quickly and the size of the available labor force shrinking rapidly in low-cost countries like China, wages are rising rapidly.  In China specifically, wage growth has far outpaced the growth seen in the U.S. As such, the marginal manufacturing capacity is reshoring to the U.S. (see chart). Here are all of the forces Bernstein identified as pushing the American Industrial Renaissance forward: 1)    Wage compression – although the absolute level of wages in the emerging markets remains less than that in the United States, the difference has been closing (see Chart 1). For example, a recent Bloomberg article highlighted that China’s wages are likely to rise by 10- 15% during 2014. US average hourly earnings are currently rising less than 2%. 2)    Lower energy costs – according to Empirical Research Partners, energy accounts for only about 5-7% of manufacturing input costs. However, lower US energy prices are nonetheless helping to keep overall US manufacturing costs competitive. 3)    Quality control – the December 2012 Atlantic Monthly has a case study regarding on-shoring of US manufacturing. Quality control was cited as one of the main reasons companies are bringing total manufacturing back to the US rather than simply assembling foreign produced parts. The article discussed the difficulties rectifying quality control problems with distributed global manufacturing. 4)    Transportation costs and time to market – the cost of shipping parts around the world and the associated time can be hidden costs that hurt both profit margins and market share.   FREE AppDownload
Chineasy is a strategic, easy-learning project by entrepreneur ShaoLan Hsueh that teaches people to recognize Chinese characters through simple illustration. Watch ShaoLan's presentation at the DLD conference, and learn key characters and phrases. Many thanks to our friends at DLD for giving us permission to publish this presentation. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Screenshot via ReutersFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. BURTON MALKIEL: The Most Important Thing Investors Can Do To Set Their Portfolio Right (Reuters)  Princeton's Burton Malkiel along with Charles Ellis, founder of Greenwich Associates, and Jay Vivian, former managing director of IBM's Retirement Funds, now serve on the investment advisory board at Rebalance IRA. Beth Pinsker at Reuters asked what investors could do to "set their portfolios right." "People should control the things that can be controlled," Malkiel said. "You can't control the market, but you can control the costs. Rebalancing can add to your long run return. And finally, save, save, save." He separately noted that investors should look at fees and their cost to investors since they also "compound over time. The fact is, looking at what you've got left after 30 years, the difference between making 7 percent or making 5 percent after fees is that you've lost 50 percent of your growth to fees. This is not a little deal - this is a big deal," he said. Merrill Lynch Appoints Director Of Gerontology To Help Advisors Address Aging (FA Mag) Gerontology refers to the study of the social and biological aspects of aging. And with the coming generational shift of clients and a large number of baby boomers entering retirement, Bank of America Merrill Lynch, has brought Cyndi Hutchins on board, as Director of Gerontology for Merrill Lynch. Hutchins has been an advisor at Merrill Lynch for 15 years and recently went back to school for a masters in Gerontology. "Adding value to client relationships today means having meaningful discussions about longevity, how to smoothly transition into retirement, what it means to go from being a son or daughter to being a caregiver, and how to plan for the unexpected," she told FA Mag. Financial Advisor Now 41st Best Job In 2014 (Investment News)  An annual list of the 100 best jobs ranked by the U.S. News and World Report showed that the job of 'financial advisor' had fallen to 41 in 2014 from 32 last year and from 23 in 2012. In terms of the best 'business' jobs for the year, financial advisor came in fourth. Jada Graves at U.S. News told Liz Skinner at Investment News that the tumble in the broader list could be attributed to the additional jobs added to the list this year. Their feature placed the median annual salary for financial advisers as $67,520. Jim Chanos Has A New Strategy For Shorting Stocks (The Wall Street Journal) Jim Chanos, president of Kynikos Associates, told the Wall Street Journal's Dennis K. Berman that he has a new strategy for shorting stocks. This strategy focuses on companies that make large stock buybacks, as this could actually be a sign of weakness. "Corporate CEOs, with their massive share-buyback programs are in effect investing in the stock market rather than in expanding business opportunities at their companies. Either they expect higher returns from the market, or lower returns in their business, or some combination of both. Given their questionable track record in timing the market, this may be a cause for concern," Chanos told the Journal.   Here Are 4 Key Reasons Why Corporate Profits Will Accelerate In 2014 (Goldman Sachs) After a 30% return on the S&amp;P 500 in 2013, many expect the stock market to correct or post moderate gains this year. This is partly because they expect record profit margins to reverse. But Goldman Sachs' Jan Hatzius doesn't believe that profits will tumble in 2014. "Eventually, the pendulum will swing back in the direction of lower profits, but probably not until the labor market has recovered sufficiently to push up hourly wage growth up to 4% or more." In fact, Hatzius points out four key reasons that profits will pick up in 2014. 1. There will be a significant rise in U.S. GDP and productivity growth which should provide corporate profits with a boost. 2. Better economic growth outside the U.S. 3. Inflation will pick up moderately. 4. A modest increase in wages. FREE AppDownload
  This position has been filled. See all available jobs at Business Insider here &gt;&gt;   We're looking for a resourceful, versatile go-getter to join our subscription research service covering the tech industry, BI Intelligence. In this newly-created position, you will be the main point of contact with subscribers and also help the BII marketing and sales team crunch numbers. You'll prepare daily reports, assist with subscriber analysis, and handle subscriber inquiries. You'll learn the paid subscription business from the ground up. What Is Business Insider? Business Insider is the fastest-growing business media company on the planet. Formed in 2007, BI was built for the digital age, offering real-time coverage of tech, finance, and general business news. BI reaches the next generation of business leaders. What Is BI Intelligence? BI Intelligence is a subscription service from Business Insider that provides smart news and in-depth analysis on the tech industry. The service has grown rapidly since its launch in mid-2012 and has expanded from its original focus on mobile to cover social, video, and payments, with two new verticals coming in 2014. Who's Right For The Job?  If you're interested in joining a cutting-edge media company as it expands its revenue streams, then this role is a great entry point. The ideal candidate will be organized, resourceful, and self-motivated. You should be interested in digital technology and an avid reader of business news. Skills &amp; Experience: If this role is for you, here are some of the other traits you must possess: The Operations Associate will report to the Business Manager of BI Intelligence. The role is full-time and based in our New York City offices. This role offers a unique opportunity to begin your career working with an influential and sophisticated industry audience that already numbers in the thousands with exposure to the Business Insider audience of 40+ million. FREE AppDownload
marchissimo / FlickrIt should come as no surprise that India is the world’s sixth-largest auto market. After all, it’s the second most populous country in the world. Indians bought some 2.7 million light vehicles in 2010, compared with only 700,000 a decade earlier. But they’re just revving up the engine: J.D. Power &amp; Associates predicts that light vehicle sales will skyrocket to 11 million by 2020, which would make the nation the third-largest car market in the world. That’s the kind of growth you’d think would draw the attention of the world’s automotive giants, whether that’s Toyota, Volkswagen, General Motors or Ford. And it has. Remarkably, though, not one of the world’s top four auto manufacturers can claim any measure of success at entering the subcontinent. India is the only major market in the world where none of them even have a 5 percent share. It may not seem like an opportune time to focus on the country. Though years of modernization have created a robust middle class in India, GDP growth slowed sharply last year, and the currency fell to a record low. As a result, some international automakers have tapped on the brakes. Chrysler, for example, was supposed to debut its Jeep sport-utility vehicle in India next year, but recently announced it would delaythe launch. No new date was given. Not only that, surprisingly strong demand in developed markets such as the United States has made foreign expansion less of a pressing concern. But if the timing isn’t right today, it should be by 2020, and possibly even sooner. Credit Suisse analyst Jatin Chawla expects automobile sales to increase at least 15 percent annualized over the next five years, as the economy recovers and the population continues to grow. Which brings us back to the intriguing question of why foreign automakers can’t figure out the Indian driver. “The market defines value in a different way [than] most of the other large car markets in the world,” Chawla and Akshay Saxena wrote in a Credit Suisse report late last year called “India Four-Wheeler Sector: Why Is It a Challenge For Multinational Corporations?” One reason the analysts offer is somewhat self-evident: Most foreign automakers aren’t focused enough on making the cars that Indians want. Indians prefer their cars smaller and cheaper than the pricier sedans and SUVs that are popular in other markets. Maruti Suzuki India, which is majority-owned by Japan’s Suzuki, for example, sells eight models in the A and B vehicle size classes, which include microcars and subcompacts, while companies like Honda and Toyota have only two such offerings. Maruti has a 43 percent share of the premium hatchback market, which is the most popular segment in India, representing one out of every five cars sold. By contrast, Hyundai is the only foreign company with a more than 10 percent share of the segment. The differential is even wider when it comes to compact hatchbacks: Maruti accounts for 48 percent, while Honda, Ford, Toyota, Volkswagen and Renault-Nissan have zero. The second reason is that it’s not just about selling cars in Mumbai or Delhi. The appetite for cars in rural areas has grown tremendously in recent years, and already accounts for 30 percent of the total market. As a result, it’s crucial to have a far-reaching distribution network in the country to give rural buyers confidence that they can get needed repairs in a timely way. Maruti has 1,200 dealerships nationwide, more than three times the number of any other foreign company. By comparison, Hyundai has fewer than 400 dealerships, while companies like Honda, Volkswagen and Nissan don’t even top 200. According to the analysts, only a handful of foreign manufacturers are positioned to make a dent in the Indian market any time soon. Hyundai seems to have the best shot: It offers more small models, such as the popular Santro and i10, and has more dealerships than its non-local counterparts. Still, Hyundai has yet to offer a compact sedan, a segment that accounts for 15 percent of the Indian market, and it lagged on rolling out diesel versions of its hatchbacks. Renault-Nissan also appears ready to mount a threat to Maruti. Chairman and CEO Carlos Ghosn has shown his commitment to India by visiting frequently, investing heavily, and making his Datsun brand the only new entrant expected in the country’s A-segment this year. Ghosn announced in 2013 that Renault and Nissan would invest $2.5 billion in India over the next five years. Finally, Honda also seems likely to continue boosting its share of the Indian market. The company already benefits from strong brand recognition in the country, in large part due to its popular motorcycles, scooters and engines. It is developing a diesel engine specifically for the Indian market and also plans to launch new hatchbacks, SUVs and sedans in the country between now and next year—six models in total. As for the rest of the global automakers, it’s just been a small success here and an even smaller success there. Ford has made some progress with a compact SUV called the EcoSport, as has Toyota with Fortuner, a large SUV. But there are only so many Indians who can afford these larger vehicles, putting an upper bound on potential market share. (On the other hand, even less-wealthy Indian car buyers don’t like to buy the cheapest of the cheap: Tata Motors. offers a decent selection of small vehicles and also has a good distribution network. But the company has a weak brand among Indians, who think of their vehicles as low quality. Its market share has fallen from 18 percent to 8 percent in the past five years. Mahindra &amp; Mahindra, an Indian automobile manufacturing company, known mostly for its sport-utility vehicles, has a strong distribution network, and consumers like the brand. But it hasn’t been able to expand past the role of a niche SUV manufacturer.) Some foreign companies, such as Toyota and Volkswagen, seem to be waiting for the market to come to them—in other words, for consumer preferences in the Indian market to start resembling those of other nations. Toyota, for example, doesn’t have a product in its portfolio that would entice Indian small-car buyers, and hasn’t made the large investment required to manufacture one just for India. But the longer they wait, the further they’ll fall behind the reigning manufacturer. “Maruti’s understanding of the Indian consumer is what separates them from the rest,” says Chawla. It really is that simple: Give the people what they want. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Stephen Lam The Winklevoss Twins will headline the first of two days of hearings on digital currencies convened by the New York Department of Financial Services. The twins' Bitcoin Trust, an ETF fund that would track the price of Bitcoin-related securities, is still under regulatory review.  Last April, the twins announced they owned $11-million worth of Bitcoin, when the price was $120. The price is now $950 on the Mt. Gox exchange meaning their holdings are now worth about $55 million.  The hearings will be more of a discussion about the role of digital currencies, similar to the ones that took place in the U.S. Senate in November, than a formal inquiry. DFS head Ben Lawsky has previously discussed creating special merchant licenses for New York businesses that rely on Bitcoin.   Here's where the hearing will take place: 90 Church Street4th Floor Board RoomNew York, NY And the full lineup of speakers: Panel 1 (11:30am - 1:30pm) – The Investor Perspective: The Future of Virtual Currencies·        Barry Silbert – Founder &amp; CEO of SecondMarket and Founder of the Bitcoin Investment Trust ·        Jeremy Liew – Partner, Lightspeed Venture Partners   ·        Fred Wilson – Partner, Union Square Ventures ·        Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss – Principals, Winklevoss Capital Management Panel 2 (2:30pm - 4:30pm) – Virtual Currencies and Regulation in an Evolving Landscape·        Charles Lee – Creator of Litecoin ·        Judie Rinearson – Partner, Bryan Cave ·        Carol Van Cleef – Partner, Patton Boggs ·        TBD Additional Witnesses  Panel 1 (10:00am – 11:00am) – Law Enforcement and Virtual Currencies·        Cyrus R. Vance, Jr – District Attorney of New York County ·        Richard B. Zabel – Deputy U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York Panel 2 (11:30am - 1:30pm) – Virtual Currency Commerce and Consumer Protections ·        Fred Ehrsam – Co-Founder, Coinbase ·        Jeremy Allaire – Founder &amp; CEO, Circle Internet Financial ·        TBD Representative of Overstock.com Panel 3 (2:30pm – 4:00pm) – The Academic View on Virtual Currencies·        Ed W. Felten – Professor of Computer Science and Public Affairs, and Director of the Center for Information Technology Policy, Princeton University ·        Susan Athey –  Professor of Economics, Stanford University FREE AppDownload
Some things just go together—like the Oscars and Meryl Streep. The actress received her 18th Academy Award nomination last week. It is not all that surprising since half of the annual Academy Awards over the past 36 years have featured Meryl Streep as a nominee. While not as well known, business spending and stock market gains go together at least as well—especially when it comes to renewed spending by manufacturers and the stocks in the industrials sector.  Last week’s monthly report of U.S. factory capacity utilization, which measures the percentage of maximum potential output currently in use, reached the highest level since mid-2008. The drawdown in spare capacity highlights how long it has been since capacity has been expanded for America’s manufacturers. After a binge of investment in the late 1990s, almost no growth has occurred in manufacturing capacity in a decade.LPLNo new investment in capacity in 10 years means that equipment and plants have aged and are now old by any historical comparison. A consequence of aging equipment is that productivity decreases as older machines tend to break down more often and require more maintenance, leading to more costly operation. At capacity utilization of 79.2%, manufacturers still have more than 20% of full capacity to spare and seemingly have no need to expand. However, this is misleading since the remaining spare capacity is old and no longer efficient to operate. If sales accelerate on better domestic and global economic growth in 2014, manufacturers will likely look to upgrade capacity in order to maintain profit margins on increased output. LPLNew investment is likely as sales growth rises in 2014 and in some areas is already taking place. Recent reports, including those from last week such as Federal Reserve’s (Fed) Beige Book (see this week’s Weekly Economic Commentary for details), business and manufacturing surveys from New York and Philadelphia Fed districts, and corporate earnings reports highlighted an improved outlook for expenditures by manufacturers on plant and equipment. The industrials sector is a key beneficiary of growth in spending on equipment by manufacturers. An example of an industry within the industrial sector that benefitted from added spending on plant capacity in 2013, and is positioned to do so again in 2014, is the engineering and construction industry. Finally, the U.S. energy renaissance, which is helping to power the renewed uptrend in spending by manufacturers, has been helping to power railroad stocks with a rapidly increasing demand for petroleum railcar shipments. LPL LPLLPLIf sales growth does improve in 2014, as gross domestic product (GDP) growth accelerates, business spending may be the best actor supporting the stock market with the industrials sector taking a leading role and delivering a performance worthy of an award  This article originally appeared at LPL Financial.  Copyright 2014. Business spending may be the best actor supporting the stock market. FREE AppDownload
Getty/Alex WongWASHINGTON (Reuters) - The FBI has warned U.S. retailers to prepare for more cyber attacks after discovering about 20 hacking cases in the past year that involved the same kind of malicious software used against Target Corp in the holiday shopping season. The U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation distributed a confidential, three-page report to retail companies last week describing the risks posed by "memory-parsing" malware that infects point-of-sale (POS) systems, which include cash registers and credit-card swiping machines found in store checkout aisles. "We believe POS malware crime will continue to grow over the near term, despite law enforcement and security firms' actions to mitigate it," said the FBI report, seen by Reuters. "The accessibility of the malware on underground forums, the affordability of the software and the huge potential profits to be made from retail POS systems in the United States make this type of financially motivated cyber crime attractive to a wide range of actors," the FBI said. The report was dated January 17 and entitled "Recent Cyber Intrusion Events Directed Toward Retail Firms." A spokeswoman for the FBI confirmed the agency had issued the report as part of efforts to share information about threats with the private sector. Retail, credit card and bank industry executives have become increasingly concerned about the security of payment card networks after Target, the No. 3 U.S. retailer, last month disclosed one of the biggest retail cyber attacks in history. The attack ran undetected for 19 days during the busy holiday shopping season and resulted in the theft of about 40 million credit and debit card records. The personal information of 70 million customers was also compromised. Luxury retail chain Neiman Marcus has said it too was the victim of a cyber attack, and sources have told Reuters that other retail chains have also been breached. [ID:nL2N0KR1J4] Neiman Marcus said about 1.1 million customer cards were exposed by a data breach from July 16 to October 30 last year. [ID:nL2N0KX1N2] In all these attacks, cyber criminals used memory-parsing software, also known as a "RAM scraper." When a customer swipes a credit or debit card, the POS terminal grabs the transaction data from the magnetic stripe and transfers it to the retailer's payment processing provider. While the data is encrypted during the process, RAM scrapers extract the information while it is in the computer's live memory, where it very briefly appears in plain text. RAM scraping technology has been around for a long time, but its use has increased in recent years. Developers of the malware have also enhanced its features to make it more difficult to be detected by anti-virus softwaredeployed on POS systems running Windows software. MALWARE ON SALE UNDERGROUND The FBI said in its report that one variant of the malicious POS software, known as Alina, included an option that allowed remote upgrades, making it tougher for corporate security teams to identify and eradicate it. The report said at least one type of malware has been offered for sale for as much as $6,000 in a "well-known" underground forum. "The high dollar value gained from some of these compromises can encourage intruders to develop high sophistication methodologies, as well as incorporate mechanisms for the actors to remain undetected," the report said. A spokesman for the Washington-based National Retail Federation, a trade group, said he had no immediate comment. One cyber security consultant who has reviewed the FBI report, said the findings were troubling for the retail industry. "Everybody we work with in the retail space is scared to death because they don't have a lot of defenses to prepare against these types of attacks," said the consultant, who is advising several retailers in current investigations. "This is not just based on anybody saying 'This is going to happen.' This is based on statistical data that the FBI is seeing," said the consultant, who was not authorized to publicly comment on the details of the report. Retailers need to move quickly to get better tools in their networks that can analyze traffic patterns on the fly and identify any unusual activity, said another expert in retail security, who has audited POS systems to find vulnerabilities that hackers can exploit. The expert said it is more difficult for small-to-mid sized retailers to do this because they do not have as much money and expertise as major retailers. The FBI report said the bulk of the POS malware cases that the agency has investigated involve small-to-mid sized local or regional businesses, whose estimated losses each range from tens of thousands of dollars to millions of dollars. The United States Secret Service usually takes the lead in credit card breach investigations for the federal government, though the FBI sometimes opens its own cases or asked to assist. The Secret Service is leading the investigations into the breaches at Target and Neiman Marcus. A spokesman for the Secret Service declined to comment on the FBI report to retailers. (Reporting by Jim Finkle and Mark Hosenball; Editing by Tiffany Wu and Grant McCool) FREE AppDownload
Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesStarbucks just released earnings results for the quarter ended December 31, 2013. Earnings per share were $0.71, better than the consensus $0.69 Wall Street estimate. Revenue, however, was light — it came in at $4.24 billion versus the Street's $4.29 billion estimate. Meanwhile, global same-store sales were up 5%, below estimates for a 5.9% advance. Shares fell more than 2% in after-hours trading following the release, but have since bounced back. Click here for the full release » FREE AppDownload
Photo by Kevin Winter/Getty ImagesYesterday, American Eagle announced that CEO Robert Hanson would be leaving, effective immediately.  The curt statement by the company did not elaborate on why Hanson was departing his post or where he was going next.  Despite the fact that American Eagle's sales fell 7% in the holiday season, Hanson's departure has stunned and confused Wall Street analysts.  "We thought that Mr. Hanson had created a more reliable and stronger business model than ever before at the company,” Brean Capital analyst Eric Beder told MarketWatch. “We are highly disappointed in his departure.” Other analysts said they liked Hanson's strategy.  “He had been implementing meaningful and positive changes to the business,” Howard Tubin with RBC Capital Markets told the Los Angeles Times. “We are a fan of Mr. Hanson, and he was, generally speaking, liked by Wall Street." Another analyst told Reuters that the news was totally unexpected.  "There did not appear to be any sign of impending change when management openly interacted with investors last week," Piper Jaffray analyst Stephanie Wissink said.  Hanson also appears to have been popular with associates.  One excited worker excitedly tweeted after he received a shout-out in a company memo:  Currently cannot hold in my joy due to the fact that @AEO 's CEO, Robert Hanson, gave me a shoutout!!! Aahhh!!! pic.twitter.com/IESeMsUJuv Sozzi notes that the company has a new chief merchant starting in February, and has considered spinning off its Aerie lingerie business.  We contacted the company for additional comments about Hanson's departure, but haven't heard back.  FREE AppDownload
Business Insider/Julie BortMicrosoft CEO Steve BallmerMicrosoft earnings are out! It's a beat on the top and bottom line:  The stock is up ~3% in after-hours trading... Some highlights from the release: Here's a breakdown of the company's earnings: Microsoft And for clarity's sake... here's how Microsoft breaks down its sales: Microsoft FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Dylan MartinezGAH!It was a pretty wild day in the global financial markets today. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kim Kyung-Hoon Why would a five-star hotel want to make itself less luxurious and more crappy? That's the questions observers asked themselves this week after Chen Miaolin, vice president of the China Tourism Association, said that 56 five-star hotels had pledged to downgrade themselves to a four-star rating last year, according to Xinhua news agency. “I’ve been in the business for decades and I’ve never seen this before,” Chen reportedly told the Chinese publication. The comments were apparently so shocking that The Wall Street Journal called to confirm he actually said it. While hotels generally strive to be as nice as they possibly can, the situation in China has changed over the last year due to President Xi Jinping's recent anti-corruption drive. "In the past, hotels and restaurants competed for stars, to be high-level, but now they compete on who is more low-profile," He Jiahong, an anti-corruption expert at Renmin University, told the Guardian. "The series of anti-corruption measures in 2013 was quite strong, compared to the past, although it has still not fixed the problems in the system," Jiahong said. "The decline in the hotel and restaurant business shows that in our country, the luxury hotel business, or high-grade consumption in this area, is supported by government spending." The decision to remove stars has been made not only for financial reasons — operating revenue among 4,000 star-rated hotels in China dropped 25% over the last year, Chen noted — but it may also show a shifting conception of luxury: New hotels are delaying their applications for five-star status, the Financial Times notes, hoping to avoid the stigma currently surrounding luxury products. FREE AppDownload
The hot new investment strategy on Wall Street these days is to go activist, but what those activists do once they go after their targets could be slowly killing the companies they invest in. It looks like this: A hedge fund manager buys a significant stake in a company,  gets their people on the board, and then puts their plan to make things better into action. The problem is when this "plan" is just forcing the company to use its cash to buy back stock, according to a study by professors Edward P. Swanson and Harrison Liu at the University of Texas. This is what Carl Icahn is asking Apple to do, for example. And what Dan Loeb wants to see at Sotheby's. A share buyback will give a company's stock a quick bounce as demand for the stock increases, but after the bump, you (the shareholder) may want to bounce. Why? Because it's very likely that stock bump is just a way for the company to look healthy while it's not innovating and/or its fundamental business is flawed. Right before the financial crisis, banks like Merril Lynch and Lehman Brothers were buying back their stock in order to support its price. Internet companies were doing it right before the dot.com bubble burst too. Warren Buffett has talked about this before, for what it's worth, and here's what Swanson and Liu have to say about it: A pattern of high corporate repurchases at market peaks suggests that companies may be using repurchases to support overvalued equity. Our study investigates this possibility. Warren Buffett in his 2000 Berkshire letter states: “repurchases are all the rage, but are all too often made for an unstated and, in our view, ignoble reason: to pump or support the stock price.” Swanson and Liu also point out that companies aren't that great at picking the time when they should buy their stock. That's only logical if companies are buying back stock to make it appear as if everything is fine when it's really not  — i.e. Lehman. Even if imminent disaster is not the case, though, a share buyback can deplete a company of cash that it should be spending on investing in itself — on developing or streamlining its business. Ultimately, that hurts the long term performance of the company and the stock price that the C-suite and/or investors are trying to support. Swanson and Liu write: Our evidence shows that companies reduce long-term shareholder value by repurchasing stock to support a high price, and short interest can be used by investors to identify such firms. That bit about the short-sellers is why you may see the Jim Chanos' of the world circling around these companies. They see the buyback, ignore the inflated stock price, and look at the fundamentals. Chanos told the WSJ: "Corporate CEOs, with their massive share-buyback programs are in effect investing in the stock market rather than in expanding business opportunities at their companies. Either they expect higher returns from the market, or lower returns in their business, or some combination of both. Given their questionable track record in timing the market, this may be a cause for concern." One has to wonder if activist investors have any better timing than corporate CEOs — because on today's Wall Street, sometimes it's not corporate, but the corporate raider who decides when it's time to buyback shares. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Walter BrandimarteA man prepares to barbecue beef to create the "Biggest Barbeque in the World" in General Pico March 20, 2011.Recent droughts have cast a long shadow over beef prices. Live cattle contracts hit $1.43/lb. today, highest since the contract started in 1964, according to Bloomberg's Phoebe Sedgman.  In a recent note, ConvergEx's Nick Colas explained what's going on: Although we had a normal and even wet summer last year, it takes years for pastureland — and the volume of animals grazing on them — to recover from such a severe lack of precipitation. The last three years have seen below to severely below average precipitation.  Colas: "There are a lot of cattle in America – just over 89 million head in total – but those numbers are down from 94 million in 2010.  Pasture land doesn’t recovery from drought in just one or two years, so ranchers have to maintain lower herd sizes even when the weather improves.  It did so this year, but numerous articles (one cited below) in local farming community newspapers seem to indicate that ranchers remain cautious despite this year’s better environment. Bottom line: U.S. herds are at a 60 year low and seem likely to remain depressed.  For a long term frame of reference, consider that the peak was just over 103 million head of cattle in 1996.  Sedgman writes ground beef prices hit a near 30-year high of about $3.50/lb. last September. Here's the chart for Live Cattle contracts.  Investing.com Ground beef prices have since come down a bit. But Sedgman reports prices may rise again, as severe droughts in Australia are forcing massive sell offs among ranchers Down Under. Although this will cause exports to temporarily increase, demand is surging in places like China, which “puts a lot of pressure on imports for fast-food grinding beef,” and means “beef will go to the highest bidder,” she quotes Global AgriTrends' Brett Stuart as saying. FREE AppDownload
Goldman SachsJan HatziusCorporate profits were strong in 2013, with S&amp;P 500 profits jumping an estimated 11% year-over-year. With profit margins at record highs, some fear that we are due for some mean reversion, which could mean falling profits and tumbling stock prices. However, Goldman Sachs' Jan Hatzius doesn't believe 2014 will see profits pull back. "Profits are likely to accelerate in 2014, as GDP and productivity growth recover but wage growth picks up only gradually," wrote Hatzius in a new note to clients.  "Eventually, the pendulum will swing back in the direction of lower profits, but probably not until the labor market has recovered sufficiently to push up hourly wage growth up to 4% or more." Let's unpack this. To understand his bullish thesis, you have to look back at 2013, a year when profit growth overcame significant headwinds. Hatzius identified three: 1) relatively weak GDP and productivity growth in the U.S.; 2) very weak growth outside of the U.S.; and 3) low and declining inflation. Despite these challenges, after-tax corporate profits grew an estimated 6.5% using the definition of the national income and product accounts (NIPA). Goldman SachsHere's Hatzius on the strength: What accounts for the strength? We believe that the key reason is the continued slack in the US labor market, and the resulting weakness of nominal wage growth. Exhibit 1 shows that our wage tracker--a composite measure based on the three most widely used hourly wage measures--is still only growing at about 2%. This weakness has held down unit labor costs even in an environment of sluggish GDP and productivity growth. And in turn, the subdued growth of unit labor costs has supported profit margins even in an environment of low price inflation... For 2014, Hatzius expects wage growth to remain modest. Furthermore, he expects the three headwinds mentioned earlier to act as tailwinds: 1. A significant pickup in US GDP and productivity growth. We expect both GDP and productivity growth to accelerate by about 1-1.5 percentage points in 2014 vs. 2013. Exhibit 2 suggests that this acceleration, on its own, should boost corporate profit growth by several percentage points. 2. Better growth outside the US. Our global forecast calls for growth outside the US to accelerate this year. In particular, growth in Europe is likely to accelerate to a trend or slightly above-trend pace. We also expect the emerging world to do a bit better in 2014, although progress there is still likely to be slow. 3. A slight pickup in price inflation. Although inflation is likely to stay well below the Fed's 2% target, we do expect a slight acceleration in 2014 as the recent weakness in healthcare cost inflation moderates and the output gap diminishes. This should modestly boost topline revenue growth in the corporate sector as well. 4. Only a modest pickup in wage growth. Wage growth is likely to pick up from its recent 2% pace, but probably only slightly. This expectation is consistent with historical norms; a look back at Exhibit 1 shows that wage growth has generally not accelerated quickly over the past few decades (i.e. since the Volcker disinflation of the late 1970s and early 1980s). Hatzius believes that wage growth will eventually have to accelerate to around 4% before labor costs materially eat into profit margins. But as he has written before, the tremendous amount of slack in the labor market will prevent this from happening any time soon. FREE AppDownload
Scott Olson/Getty Images)Sears, once America's golden retailer, is closing dozens of stores — including its flagship location in Chicago — to try and revive revenues. The company's sales have been falling since 2005, but its problems may stretch as far back as the late 1970s, when Sears executives characterized the retailer as a reflection of Middle America's "concerns," "problems and faults." "We are not a fashion store. We are not a store for the whimsical, nor the affluent," Sears executives wrote in an internal 1978 document obtained by Crain's Chicago Business. "We are not a discounter nor an avant-garde department store. We are not, by the standards of the trade press or any other group of bored observers, an exciting store." The document was part of a forward-looking five-year plan, referred to as "The Yellow Book." Crain's republished its 36-year-old report on the plan this week after the company announced it would be closing its flagship store in Chicago.  When "The Yellow Book" was written, the retailer was in its heyday. Three out of four Americans shopped at Sears annually, according to the company. Yet the company seemed resigned to let its competition take the lead.  "We are not a store that anticipates," executives wrote at the time. "We reflect the world of Middle America and all of its desires and concerns and problems and faults." Rance Crain, president of Crain Communications Inc. and editor-in-chief of Advertising Age, wrote in 2003 that "By not anticipating, Sears allowed retailers such as Wal-Mart, Home Depot and Target to carve out gigantic chunks of its bread-and-butter business. By not anticipating, Sears has become an imitator, and one that has ceased to even reflect its once cozy world of Middle America." Retail consultant Robin Lewis says the company continues to have a self-destructive view of itself today that has been perpetuated by CEO Eddie Lampert, who took over in 2005. "The recent closing of another Sears store is just another play out of Eddie's long established playbook, the playbook of a brilliant financier on how to manage a company down, and ultimately into liquidation," Lewis said in an emailed statement following news of Sears closing its flagship location in Chicago. Lewis says Lampert has been selling off the company's assets "to generate cash which he can then invest somewhere outside of the retail businesses." The company said it was closing the store due to its poor performance. FREE AppDownload
REUTERSA Syrian refugee boy stands in front of his makeshift tent in central Ankara October 5, 2013. Some 150 Syrians, mostly from villages near Syria's Aleppo, prefer to settle in the central Turkish capital instead of refugee camps run by the Turkish government. Executives, billionaires, and the global economic elite at Davos are not just discussing the course of the global economy at Davos; many of them also attended a complex simulation aimed at making them feel like honest-to-god refugees from a war-torn country, reports the Irish Times. Crossroads foundation — a Hong Kong-based nonprofit — aims to bring the real world feeling of being a refugee to the world's rich, without any of the real world consequences. "Facebook executive Sheryl Sandberg may be the world’s newest billionaire, but she will mark the occasion fighting for food and scrabbling in dirt with machine guns pointed in her face," writes Derek Scally of IT. Here's how Crossroads describes the event: Participants face simulated attacks, mine fields where they may be ‘injured’, life in a refugee camp, hunger, illness, lack of education, corruption and uncertain shelter or safety. Participants may also be marched under guard, subjected to ambush and, ultimately, offered a chance of re-settlement where they must re-build their lives.  Age Group: 16 - AdultIdeal Group Size: 20 - 80Time: 2 hours The Crossroads YouTube video features a guy brandishing an AK and talking a lot about bridging the gap between rich and poor. A Hong Kong news report for the "Refugee Run" program makes it look a lot like some of the immersion training Marines get prior to deploying — to include the frantic yelling. Participants can pull the plug whenever they feel they're sufficiently saturated with whatever scenario they've paid to attend. Scenarios range the "A.I.D.S. X-Perience" to the "Slum X-Perience" — which are both self-explanatory. Scally, who attended the one at Davos, writes: Crossroads believes that only when world leaders experience the chaotic conditions refugees endure will they experience real empathy and act. I’m in the first group trooping down the stairs of a Davos school, clutching an ID card. For the next 30 minutes I am Ajmal Mounir, the card reads, a 17-year-old quarry worker with good health but no prospects. Despite the stated intent, it's easy to see why people might object. These simulations noticeably blur the line between raising awareness and war tourism. Meanwhile, Syria and the growing refugee camps in Turkey represent the reality behind simulations like "Refugee Run." FREE AppDownload
Carl Icahn continued his assault on Apple today. He announced on Twitter that he bought another $500 million worth of Apple stock, bringing his total to $3.6 billion. He also wrote an open letter to Apple shareholders explaining why he thinks Apple needs to ramp up its share buybacks. He believes a share buyback would easily goose the company's share price.  Here's the tweet: Bought another $500mil of $AAPL tday, bringing our total to $3.6 billion. If board doesn’t see AAPL’s ‘no brainer’ value we sure do. Dear Fellow Apple Shareholders, Over the course of my long career as an investor and as Chairman of Icahn Enterprises, our best performing investments result from opportunities that we like to call "no brainers." Recent examples of such “no brainers” have been our investments in Netflix, Hain Celestial, Chesapeake, Forest Labs and Herbalife, just to name a few. In our opinion, a great example of a “no brainer” in today’s market is Apple. The S&amp;P 500’s price to earnings multiple is 71% higher than Apple’s, and if Apple were simply valued at the same multiple, its share price would be $840, which is 52% higher than its current price.1 This is a dramatic valuation disconnect that simply makes no sense to us, and it seems that the company agrees with us on this point. Tim Cook himself has expressed on more than one occasion that Apple is undervalued, and as the company states, it already has in place “the largest share repurchase authorization in history.” We believe, however, that this share repurchase authorization can and should be even larger, and effectuating that for the benefit of all of the company’s shareholders is the sole intention of our proposal. The company has recommended voting against our proposal for various reasons. It seems to us that the basis of its argument against our proposal is that the company believes, because of the “dynamic competitive landscape” and because its “rapid pace of innovation require[s] unprecedented investment, flexibility and access to resources”, it does not currently have enough excess liquidity to increase the size of its repurchase program. Assuming this indeed is the basis for the company’s argument, we find its position overly conservative (almost to the point of being irrational), when we consider that the company had $130 billion of net cash as of September 28, 2013 and that consensus earnings are expected to be almost $40 billion next year. Given this massive net cash position and robust earnings generation, Apple is perhaps the most overcapitalized company in corporate history, from our perspective. Regardless of what liquidity it may require with respect to “unprecedented investment, flexibility and access to resources” for innovation moving forward, we believe the unprecedented degree to which the company is currently overcapitalized would overcompensate for any such investments (including possible investments in strategic M&amp;A, to which the company does not refer). Said another way, we believe that the combination of the company’s unprecedentedly enormous net cash balance, robust annual earnings, and tremendous borrowing capacity provide more than enough excess liquidity to afford both the use of cash for any necessary ongoing business-related investments in addition to the cash used for the increased share repurchases proposed. It is our belief that it is the responsibility of the Board, on behalf of the company’s shareholders, to take advantage of such a large and unmistakable opportunity. Indeed, we believe that by choosing not to increase the size of the repurchase program, the directors are actually performing a great disservice to the owners, especially smaller shareholders who may not be in a position to buy more stock themselves. Meanwhile, we are in a position to continue buying shares in the market at today's price, so perhaps we should thank the Board for not being more aggressive, and thus allowing us to accumulate an even larger investment position at a price that reflects the aforementioned valuation disconnect. In fact, over the past two weeks we purchased $1 billion more in Apple shares, $500 million of which we purchased today, bringing our total ownership position in Apple to a current value of approximately $3.6 billion. Given the degree to which Apple appears undervalued to us, we almost feel that it’s a waste of time to debate the point. As we believe it to be the preeminent and most innovative consumer products company in the world, with the greatest brand, hardware, software, and services in the world, Apple has had tremendous growth to date, and we fail to see why this growth would not continue moving forward. The industry (smartphones and tablets) is expected to grow volume at a 15% compounded annual growth rate from 2013 through 2017 according to IDC. We believe Apple should continue to benefit from this secular growth, as last year, 85% of Apple’s revenues came from smartphones, tablets, and related software, services, and accessories. The naysayers question whether Apple will be able to participate in this growth without sacrificing pricing and gross margins, especially with competition from Google, Samsung, Microsoft, Amazon and Chinese manufacturers. Our response to them is that the answer is already evident to us from the continuing loyalty of Apple’s growing customer base. The highly successful evolutionary (not revolutionary) introductions of the iPhone 5s and 5c and Ipad Air and Mini, prove to us that Apple could, for the most part, maintain pricing and gross margin as we believe consumers are willing to pay a reasonable premium for the world’s best smartphones and tablets. The rumored future introduction of product line extensions with larger screens for both the iPhone and iPad would further support this view.2 In fact, a recent study from NDC shows that the iPhone accounted for 42% of smartphone users in the United States at the end of 2013, up a staggering 20% from the prior year. Despite its great scale and narrow focus, Apple has an operating margin of just 28.5%. We believe its customers’ willingness to pay a premium price for the world’s greatest products should enable Apple to participate in the expected volume growth of these categories while at the same time largely maintaining its average selling prices and gross margins. And, as software and services improve and become even more important to consumers in the future, we expect customer loyalty to strengthen further. Even if the story ended with Apple’s existing product and software lines, we would still choose to make Apple our largest investment. But there is more to the story! Tim Cook keeps saying that he expects to introduce “new products in new categories” and yet very few people seem to be listening. We’re not aware of a single Wall Street analyst who includes “new products in new categories” or new services in any of their financial projections, even though Apple clearly has an impressive track record of such new category product introductions, even if it does so rarely. Apple released the iPhone in 2007 and the iPad five years later in 2012, both so extraordinarily successful that today they represent the majority of the company’s revenue. Tim Cook’s comments, along with advancements in enabling technologies, lead us to believe that we may see in the not too distant future what new groundbreaking products they’ve been working on developing in Cupertino these last several years.3 To get a sense of the scale of the opportunity that stems from new products in new categories, let’s take a moment to consider the possibility of an Apple television. The major electronics companies are now focused on ultra high definition TVs as their next big opportunity. Ultra high definition is expected to offer a level of image clarity that is superior to today’s high definition televisions for screen sizes 55 inches and above. To date, the barrier to mass market adoption of ultra high definition has been the price gap between it and regular high definition, but that price gap is closing and will soon be de minimis. The closing of this price gap is supported by statements made by the Co-CEO of Samsung Electronics, who expects the price gap to fall to 10% by the end of this year. While cable companies will likely be slow to upgrade their linear TV infrastructure due to cost, video content is expected to be accessible through the internet via services like Netflix and others. We believe ultra high definition represents a major catalyst for the next TV replacement cycle and a promising moment for Apple to introduce its first new product in this category. Reed Hastings, CEO of Netflix, has referenced ultra high definition as a major catalyst for Netflix going forward. While this is true for Netflix, we believe it is also true for Apple, not just for its hardware but also for selling ultra high definition movies and shows on iTunes through the internet. With 238 million TVs sold globally in 2012, it would not surprise us if Apple could sell 25 million new Apple ultra high definition televisions at $1,600 per unit, especially when considering both its track record of introducing best in class products and its market share in smartphones and tablets.4 At a gross margin of 37.7%, which would be consistent with that of the overall company, such a debut would add $40 billion of revenues and $15 billion to operating income annually.5 The possibility of a television represents only one opportunity for the company that stems from new products in new categories. While we won’t go through all of them here, we see several major opportunities in hardware alone. With advancements in miniaturization and continued improvements in Siri, it seems obvious to us that Apple has a compelling opportunity in the exciting area of wearable devices, supported by rumors that Apple is developing a smartwatch (as Tim Cook himself said the wrist is “an area of great interest for Apple”). While many consider Apple a hardware company, to pigeonhole it as such is no longer appropriate in our opinion. Apple has built an ecosystem of hardware, software, and services that we believe collectively represents the most successful consumer product platform in the entire history of consumer-facing technologies. And as Apple’s customer base continues to enjoy the use of this ecosystem, storing media in the cloud and moving it from one Apple device to another as doing so becomes increasingly convenient with innovations such as Airplay (as just one simple example of this ecosystem’s current functionality), we believe that customer base grows increasingly loyal and excited for the next Apple product release, making it an asset in and of itself that grows and becomes increasingly valuable. Indeed, we believe any new software service that offers new functionality to this customer base becomes a large opportunity for Apple to introduce as a revolutionary and disruptive bolt-on to the ecosystem. As just one of many possible examples of this phenomenon, Apple could introduce a next generation payments solution. In terms of whether the marketplace is well addressed by mobile payments solutions, Tim Cook has said “I think it is in its infancy… I think it is just getting started and just of out of the starting block.” With the fingerprint sensor, iBeacon, 575+ million credit card numbers stored in iTunes, and Apple’s homogeneous iOS installed base with 79% of devices using iOS 7, we believe a revolutionary payments solution is now a very real opportunity that the company could choose to pursue. With respect to all of Apple’s new and existing opportunities for growth, they will only prove to be successful with strong execution from the company’s management, in whom we hold great confidence. Naysayers say Tim Cook is not Steve Jobs, and they’re absolutely right. He is Tim Cook and we believe he is doing an excellent job, and Jonathan Ive, Senior VP of Design, is Jonathan Ive and we believe he’s doing an excellent job, etcetera. In this letter, we have above summarized why we believe Apple is undervalued in order to express how ridiculous it seems to us for Apple to horde so much cash rather than repurchase stock (and thereby use that cash to make a larger investment in itself for the benefit of all of the company’s shareholders). In its statement in opposition to our proposal, the company claims that “the Board and management team have demonstrated a strong commitment to returning capital to shareholders” and we believe that is true, but we also believe that commitment is not strong enough given the unique degree to which the company is both undervalued and overcapitalized. Furthermore, it is important to note that a share repurchase is not simply an act of “returning capital to shareholders” since it is also the company effectively making an investment in itself. To us, as long term investors, this is an important difference: a dividend is a pure return of capital while a share repurchase is the company making an investment in itself by buying shares in the market at the current price, which we believe to be undervalued, from shareholders willing to sell at that price for the benefit of shareholders who choose to remain investors for the longer term. And we are long term investors. It should be noted that no one on the Board seems to be an expert in the world of investment management. However, based on our record, we believe few will argue that we are experts in this area, and we have no doubts that the Board is doing a great disservice to its shareholders by not immediately increasing the size of the share repurchase program in order to more effectively take advantage of what we believe to be the company’s low market valuation. We have expressed above what we believe to be the company’s primary reason for not supporting our proposal. Conversely, it is our belief that Apple’s current excess liquidity is without historical precedent and beyond reasonable comparison to its peers or otherwise, and such dramatic overcapitalization affords the company enough excess liquidity to repurchase the amount of shares we proposed. Apple’s existing capital return program has just $37 billion remaining, and the company has until the end of 2015 to complete it. Without any changes to the program, the largest pile of corporate cash in the world is likely to grow even larger, and if the share price rises, this Board will have missed a great opportunity to use more of that hoarded cash to repurchase shares at an attractive value. While it is important for the Board to focus on the return of capital on a sustained basis, it is also important for the Board to evaluate whether or not its share price is undervalued and to take advantage of it with share repurchases, especially when the balance sheet exhibits dramatic excess liquidity, as we believe Apple’s does today. The Board may argue that with so much opportunity, it would be prudent to maintain its excess liquidity to increase R&amp;D or make acquisitions, especially when considering the financial strength of its competitors. We completely agree that the company must innovate and should be flexible to make prudent strategic acquisitions, yet even after taking such factors into account, we believe that tremendous excess liquidity remains. With respect to possible M&amp;A (to which the company does not refer in its statement), for the opportunities highlighted above (a TV, a watch, a payment service), we find it extremely difficult to identify any possible strategic acquisitions of scale that make sense. Furthermore, such action would seem to conflict with Apple’s culture historically. A remarkable fact is that since the Board reacquired Steve Jobs through the NeXT acquisition for $427 million in 1997, the next largest acquisition Apple made was $2.6 billion for Nortel’s patent portfolio. Amazingly, over these 17 years, Apple made just $7.8 billion worth of acquisitions in total during this timeframe. Apple clearly has a long history and culture of developing its innovation internally, which leads us to believe that the company will not seek out large acquisitions to pursue any of the opportunities about which we have speculated. In terms of paying for the necessary innovation internally, Apple is expected to generate $40 billion of earnings next year, which already takes into account an increasing R&amp;D expense. In order to address the argument that Apple should reserve excess liquidity to more effectively compete with some of its deep-pocketed competitors, there is no doubt that some of them also have significant earnings and net cash on their balance sheets (whether or not that is appropriate). But Apple has much more. When compared to its next largest competitor, Microsoft, for example, Apple has $68 billion more net cash and is expected to generate $18 billion more in earnings during 2014. The Board may argue that much of its cash and earnings are international and therefore subject to a repatriation tax if returned to the United States to repurchase shares. While this is true, we question why the company would not simply borrow the money in the Unites States to the extent it deems its domestic cash of $36 billion and domestic earnings are insufficient. Given that the company has $130 billion of net cash and $40 billion of expected annual earnings, and the fact that it is hard to find a better time in history to borrow money, a $50 billion share repurchase over the course of fiscal year 2014 seems more than reasonable to us. Today, Apple’s outstanding ten year bonds yield 3.63%, and its five year bonds yield 2%. Apple could either continue to carry this debt, repay it from its domestic earnings over time, or repatriate cash from abroad upon the passage of corporate tax reform. The company has stated that it is “updating perspectives on its capital return program for 2014 and beyond” and “collecting input from a very broad base of shareholders.” We believe, if our proposal receives majority shareholder support, that the Board should respect it and increase the repurchase program as requested. We believe this action will greatly enhance value for all long term shareholders who believe, as we do, in the great potential of this company. If the Board takes this action, we will applaud them for taking advantage of one of the greatest examples of a “no brainer” we have seen in five decades of successful investing. Sincerely yours, Carl C. Icahn FREE AppDownload
Photo by Otto Greule Jr/Getty ImagesRichard Sherman has 2/1 odds on an interceptionNovelty bettors love the Super Bowl, with some of the more famous wagers placed on things like the coin toss. But this year's Super Bowl — featuring the Seattle Seahawks and the Denver Broncos — has an even more awesome list of things you can bet that are ancillary to the game itself. Unsurprisingly, a few of the bets involve Richard Sherman, who started a media frenzy with a wild post-game interview in the NFC championship. The oddsmakers at Bovada have over 500 novelty bets (or "props") for the Super Bowl. These are some of our favorites, with the "+/-" betting line (how much you win or lose if you bet $100) and the odds.  1. Will it snow during the game?        Yes +300 (3/1) No -500 (1/5) 2. What will be the temperature at Kickoff?     Over/under: 34 degrees Fahrenheit 3. What will be the lowest temperature during the game?       Over/under: 31 degrees Fahrenheit 4. Will the power go out in the stadium during the game?      Yes (25/1) 5. Will Renee Fleming forget or omit at least 1 word of the official US National Anthem?          Yes +250 (5/2) No -400 (1/4)  6. Will Renee Fleming wear gloves when she starts singing the US National Anthem?          Yes (1/2) No (3/2)  7. Will Knowshon Moreno cry during the singing of the National Anthem? Yes +400 (4/1) No -700 (1/7)  8. How many times will Peyton Manning say "Omaha" during the game?       Over/Under (27½) 9. Will Michael Crabtree mention Richard Sherman in a tweet during the Super Bowl from kickoff until final whistle?   Yes +150 (3/2) No -200 (1/2) 10. Will the announcers say the word "Marijuana" during the game?    Yes +550 (11/2) No -900 (1/9) 11. What will Bruno Mars be wearing on his head at the start of his Half Time performance?   Fedora (2/3) No hat (2/1) Fur Hat (5/1) Tuque (8/1)  12. What Color will the Gatorade (or liquid) be that is dumped on the Head Coach of the Winning Super Bowl Team?           Clear/Water (2/1)      Orange (3/1)     Yellow (3/1)      Red (5/1)        Blue (7/1)   Green (10/1) 13. Will Richard Sherman receive a taunting penalty in the game? Yes +400 (4/1) No -700 (1/7) 14. Will Richard Sherman receive an unnecessary roughness penalty in the game?            Yes +550 (11/2) No -900 (1/9) 15. Will Richard Sherman receive a pass interference penalty in the game?     Yes +150 (3/2) No -200 (1/2) 16. Will Richard Sherman (SEA) record an interception?   Yes +200 (2/1) No -260 (5/13) 17. What will be higher?    Gold Medals by the USA in the 2014 Sochi Olympics +120 (6/5) First Half Total Points by the Broncos -150 (2/3) FREE AppDownload
Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesGoogle Chairman Eric Schmidt just gave a "fireside chat" in Davos, Switzerland, at the World Economic Forum. In the context of talking about global inequality, which Schmidt thinks is partly the result of technology and is going to get worse before it gets better, Schmidt revealed a critical truth about the economy that few other successful investors and executives appear to understand (or at least admit): The stagnation in middle-class wages is not just a middle-class problem. It's an economic problem. And it's one of the main reasons that global economic growth is so lousy. Why do stagnant middle-class wages hurt the economy? Because the middle-class folks whose wages are stagnant are the global economy's biggest spenders. And when they don't have money to spend, their lack of spending hurts not just them but all the companies that depend on them for revenue. Including, Schmidt pointed out, Google. Put differently, one company's expenses (wages) are another company's revenues. So, collectively, when companies are cutting wages, they're also cutting their own future revenue growth. Right now, companies are so focused on cutting wages — by paying their employees as little as possible and replacing them with technology whenever possible — that wages as a percent of the economy are now near an all-time low (see chart below). And this weakness in wages is the big reason demand in the economy is so weak. Business Insider, St. Louis FedWages as a percent of GDP. Very few corporate executives and investors seem to understand this. Instead, they act like it's a law of economics that they have to pay their employees as little as possible, so they can "maximize profit."  And, in the process, they hobble the economy. Eric Schmidt—and, likely, Google—do understand the wage/growth tradeoff.   And that's one reason why, even if you're skeptical of Google's initiatives in wind farms, self-driving cars, robotics, and other projects that are seemingly unrelated to its core business — or if you're annoyed by Google's penchant for paying its most valuable engineers so well — you should at least appreciate that all of this generous investment and spending helps the economy.   If more companies behaved the way Google, Amazon, and other companies do — spending more than they absolutely have to and investing for the long-term rather than "maximizing current earnings" — the economy would be much better off. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike BlakeSan Marcos, CaliforniaTalk about an amazing reversal of fortune! This may be the most amazing, underreported demographic fact today. Using homeownership-by-age data from the Census Bureau, we compared households by years of birth to examine how homeownership changes over consumers' lifetimes. John Burns Real Estate Consulting Our consulting team has been pointing out a real dearth of entry-level buyers over the last several years, which is counterintuitive when you consider that this has been the most affordable time in generations to buy a home. What we learned is that a huge percentage of households bought a home earlier than usual, and that same group has gone through more foreclosures than any generation before them. What does this mean? It is more difficult than usual to sell entry-level homes today, but the pent-up demand for entry-level housing is huge. Stay tuned as we continue to unearth the future of housing for the Subprime Generation. FREE AppDownload
The Argentine peso fell 13% against the dollar today after the country devalued its currency the most in 12 years in order to preserve international reserves.  The exchange rate now stands at 1 dollar for 7.88 Argentine pesos. The country also announced that it would limit Argentines to two internet purchases from abroad per year. Cabinet Chief Jorge Capitanich said that the new measure was meant to protect local industry. More likely, it is also another measure to control the flow of capital out of the country. Argentina's foreign reserves are incredibly low. After paying $900 million in debt the last week of December, government officials put foreign reserves at under $30 billion. The bank responded to this dip by injecting and additional $100 million. There's more debt where all this came from. This week alone the country offered to hand $10 billion over to The Paris Club for debt dating back to its 2001 collapse. Check out today's dollar-peso action in the chart below: Business Insider FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Say what? When asked about the recent Oxfam study that revealed the world's 85 richest people have equal wealth to the 3.5 billion poorest people, Canadian businessman and Shark Tank investor Kevin O'Leary said "it's fantastic." "It inspires everybody, gets them motivation to look up to the 1% and say, 'I want to become one of those people, I’m going to fight hard to get up to the top,'" O'Leary said on Monday's episode of his business show. "This is fantastic news and of course I applaud it. What can be wrong with this?" O'Leary left his co-anchor Amanda Lang dumbfounded. "Really?" she said after a long pause. O'Leary essentially plays the Simon Cowell on Shark Tank, ABC's venture capital reality show. He regularly berates guests (and his co-sharks) and freely cites his wealth and business acumen. But this one still stunned us. The video — which we first saw on PolicyMic — is flat out ridiculous.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Fred ProuserMohamed El-Erian.Markets are in risk-off mode today in U.S. trading — risk assets like stocks are down and safe havens like Treasuries are up. Meanwhile, there are a ton of big moves happening in currency markets around the world — especially in some notable emerging markets like South Africa and Turkey, both of which are dealing with idiosyncratic problems of their own. This leads Dave Lutz, head of ETF trading and strategy at Stifel Nicolaus, to wonder: is today's sell-off in the U.S. 75% macro and 25% micro? "I have to think there is a pileup of FX margin calls happening which is causing angst," says Lutz in an email. He offers another curious explanation, too: "Maybe El-Erian’s departure is having some impacts here as well." On Tuesday, it was announced that Mohamed El-Erian, CEO of PIMCO, would be leaving the firm in March. PIMCO co-founder and chief investment officer Bill Gross said in an interview Wednesday he was shocked and discouraged when he heard the news. What does that have to do with today's market action? Lutz points to commentary from the emerging markets desk at Mizuho Securities: "Yet to be factored in, perhaps, is the negative surprise of Mr. El-Erian's departure from PIMCO — say what you will about that firm's self-serving pandering to CNBC audiences, but now gone is a loud and cash-rich supporter of the concept of diversification into emerging markets, and we are bound to be the worse for it. Call it the PIMCO taper: they don't have to sell — they just have to stop buying hand over fist — for the markets to feel a tightening. Look out below." This is certainly the first example we've seen of anyone ascribing market movements to the El-Erian news. FREE AppDownload
New York City is without a doubt one of the most expensive cities in the world to live in. New Construction Manhattan, a luxury real estate company, put together a list of 2013's most expensive buildings based on closed sales and average price per square foot. The most expensive building in 2013 was 15 Central Park West, at an average of $5,636 per square foot. The luxury building has stunning views of Central Park and is home to a laundry list of NYC's powerful bankers, celebrities, and big shots. Still-under-construction One57, where a penthouse sold for a record-breaking $90 million in 2012, barely made the cut at $3,548 per square foot. Lincoln Square's Millennium Tower also made the list at $3,671 per square foot.  Here's the full list of buildings with square footage. 15 Central Park West $5,636/sq. ft. The South Tower of Time Warner Center $4,166/sq. ft. Residences at Mandarin Oriental $4,044/sq. ft. 18 Gramercy Park South $4,042/sq. ft. Superior Ink $3,901/sq. ft. The Hudson $3,714/sq. ft. Millennium Tower $3,671/sq. ft. The Mayfair $3,637/sq. ft. 200 Eleventh Avenue $3,565/sq. ft. One57 $3,548/sq. ft. FREE AppDownload
On Wednesday, Paul Singer, founder of the hedge fund Elliott Management, was on a panel at the World Economic Forum about safety in our global financial system. In sum: He believes we're not safe. More than that, he admitted that the financial instruments he trades, derivatives, aren't helping. You'll recall that a derivative is a financial instrument that takes its value from the performance of another asset — i.e. a mortgage. From Bloomberg: “I love trading them,” Singer, whose Elliott Management Corp. manages $23.9 billion....said. “On balance, there’s been a net negative to society from this particular type of invention.” The problem, which Singer has pointed out before, is that big, systemically important banks with trillions of dollars in assets are trading these derivatives right along with him. However, those banks don't actually know their value. The entire market is opaque. “We can only assume that the reason the global financial system is still… over leveraged, opaque, reliant upon the implicit and explicit support of governments for its very existence… is that fixing the problem would be too painful for powerful special interest groups,” Singer wrote in prepared remarks obtained by ValueWalk. He continues: “The major financial institutions (those bailed out or implicitly supported in the last crisis) have taken important steps to reduce their trading risks since the 2008 collapse. However, it is impossible to verify such progress from public financial statements or even to assess these institutions’ true financial risks.” Now here's the thing: We saw a little bit of this pay out last week when Wall Street reported its Q4 2013 earnings. JP Morgan serves as the perfect example. JPM's investment bank reported a $1.5 billion loss because it started using a different way to value its over the counter derivatives — in finance jargon, this is called a funding valuation adjustment (FVA). Of all the major banks that reported, only JP Morgan took steps to change the way it reports the derivatives it's trading/holding on its balance sheet. What the FVA is supposed to do is force banks to report what it's costing them to hold the derivatives on their balance sheet — the derivatives' funding cost. What makes this possible, is that regulators have been working to force the value of obscure derivatives into light. If we got into that conversation, you'd fall asleep. But it's happening. The point is that banks can now use this value data to better understand what is going on in derivatives markets. And apparently what's going on blows $1.5 billion holes in bank balance sheets. To Singer, though, none of this is enough. We need more clarity about what people are trading, and more importantly, we need systemically important institutions to post adequate collateral ("margin", in finance jargon) for the risks their taking. “What I think about derivatives is if every institution that owns or trades them is properly margined and marked to market, including end-users, including every institution, including sovereigns and multilateral institutions, then the system would be safe – if people were margined the way customers of investment banks are margined," said Singer. "It’s not a capital issue. Capital is kind of a banking concept. But it’s margin. Margin is a customer concept. Because of customer margins, margin-account customers don’t typically cause the world to collapse.” He should know, he loves them.   FREE AppDownload
We are seeing some huge moves in global currency markets this morning. The U.S. dollar is up a whopping 14.1% against the Argentine peso today. Yesterday, Argentina introduced new capital controls restricting residents to only two online purchases from foreign retailers per year. The central bank is also reducing currency market intervention in order to protect its remaining foreign exchange reserves, which have been going fast. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg) The dollar is up 4.7% against the Malawian kwacha, which is taking a hit along with the South African rand and other African currencies as the world's three largest platinum mines go on strike in South Africa. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg) The dollar is up 1.6% against the Angolan kwanza — another of the biggest currency losers in Africa today. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg) And here is the South African rand (the dollar-rand exchange rate is up 1.1% today). Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg) Meanwhile, the dollar is up big (1.5%) against the Turkish lira as that country continues to struggle with an unfolding currency crisis. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg) Though all of these currencies are down big against the dollar, they're down even bigger against the yen and the euro. The dollar-yen exchange rate is down 0.8%, and the euro-dollar exchange rate is up 1.0%. Dramatic moves around the world. FREE AppDownload
Google is exploring how to integrate Bitcoin into its products.  The great Andy Greenberg at Forbes has the complete story.  A marketing manager named Jarar Malik from Pakistan decided to email the CEOs of top tech companies in the U.S. to see if they would start accepting Bitcoin. He got no response from Tim Cook, Jeff Bezos, Sergey Brin, or Larry Page. He decided to email their lieutenants. He got a response from Vic Gundotra at Google, who runs Google+. Gundotra forwarded the email to someone in the payments group at Google.  "We are working in the payments team to figure out how to incorporate Bitcoin into our plans," said Sridhar Ramaswamy, who is a SVP for Ads and Commerce at Google.  Malik posted the emails on Reddit, and people got excited. Another Googler reached out to Malik and asked him to host a Google survey on "What would I want Google to do with Bitcoin?" Google's spokespeople are downplaying any talk of Bitcoin, telling Forbes, "We have no current plans regarding Bitcoin." Regardless, Google is looking at Bitcoin, which makes perfect sense. Bitcoin is very popular in Silicon Valley. Influential venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz is all about Bitcoin — founding partner Marc Andreessen just wrote a big explainer on Bitcoin and compared it to the PC and the Internet. Google Ventures has invested in Bitcoin startup OpenCoin. Google Ventures' Kevin Rose is an investor in at least one Bitcoin startup, too.   Google accepting Bitcoin would be a nice win for the Bitcoin community.  For Bitcoin to have a lasting impact/value, it needs companies to start using Bitcoin. There's a lot of debate about why Bitcoin has value. If companies start using Bitcoin, then it will have value.  As our own Joe Weisenthal explained, things don't have value until they do. Twitter for instance, is worth $0 if no one uses it. Once people start using it at scale, it becomes a multibillion company. At the start of the month, Jeremey Allaire, CEO of Bitcoin startup Circle, emailed us with his explanation for why Bitcoin can eventually have real value: Because of the fixed supply, by definition the value backing Bitcoin will be the total of the savings and transactional value that happens in bitcoin. Specifically, as more and more real trade for products and services is conducted and in turn held in Bitcoin, it's value is supported. In short, over the long-run, the "value backing Bitcoin" will be the sum of the real macro-economic activity happening in it. Real economic market participants (consumers and businesses adopting it) will be incented to use it both for real-world savings but also to hold it as a currency that appreciates as it grows in usage. To a large degree, this mimics the infamous Metcalfe's Law of the exponentially increasing value of networks as new nodes are added and use it, but in this case the value is tangible financial value. As more and more real trade and savings occur in Bitcoin, it is likely that governments will participate in shaping and making the market for bitcoin as they do with existing currency markets, ensuring they fulfill their financial stability mandate. In other words, the more Bitcoin is used, the more it has value. Google accepting Bitcoin would be a big step in making this happen. FREE AppDownload
BI Intelligence is a subscription-based tech research service from Business Insider, covering mobile, social, payments, and other leading topics in tech. We provide in-depth analysis and daily news briefs accompanied by downloadable charts and data to our thousands of paid users. Now is the perfect time to try BI Intelligence if you haven't already. We've got big plans for making the service even more valuable to subscribers, including bolstering our coverage areas and expanding our team. Here's a look at some of the changes under way: To get a sense of what we do, see the chart below showing global smartphone market share. We produce charts and reports every day that dig into what the latest market developments are, why they matter, and what's going to happen next.  BII Here's a sample of some of the recent topics we've covered: In the next few months, BI Intelligence will analyze: If you'd like to try out BI Intelligence, you can sign up today for a free two week trial.  Subscribers receive weekly in-depth reports, daily charts, and a daily morning newsletter with the latest in the global mobile, social media, digital payments, and video industries. If multiple people in your organization are interested in a subscription, email us at intelligence@businessinsider.com for enterprise pricing. FREE AppDownload
Christopher Furlong/Getty ImagesThe United States is enjoying a golden age of management. American manufacturing firms, retailers, and hospitals are currently the best managed in the world, according to a comprehensive study by a group of economists that was recently highlighted in The Economist. That's great news for the U.S., as good management practices are strongly linked to increased productivity, profitability, and growth. The four economists behind the study — Nicholas Bloom of Stanford, Christos Genakos of the Athens University of Economics and Business, Raffaella Sadun of Harvard Business School, and John Van Reenen of the London School of Economics — have spent a decade and counting on the project, surveying more than 10,000 organizations across 20 countries. They've focused on three key management practices: 1. Monitoring. The researchers examined how firms monitor what actually happens inside the company each day and how they use that information to make improvements. 2. Targets. Companies were assessed on how well they set goals, tracked outcomes, and responded when goals and outcomes didn't align. 3. Incentives. Organizations were judged on their systems of promotions and rewards, hiring approach, and ability to retain top talent. Companies in the U.S. scored the highest in both "overall management" and in "incentives management." Japan, which had the best score in "targets management," and Germany tied for the second-best overall management practices. Brazil and China scored the worst. Here are the rankins for manufacturing companies: NBER Working Paper Series And a more detailed breakdown: NBER Working Paper Series What pushed the U.S. ahead of other nations? The researchers suggest one of the main reasons is the free market competition made possible by America's lighter labor market regulations. "Better managed firms [in the U.S.] appear to be rewarded more quickly with greater market share and the worse managed forced to rapidly shrink and exit," they write. "This appears to have led American firms to rapidly copy management best practices from around the world." Here's a chart showing that relationship in more detail: NBER Working Paper Series America's CEOs may also contribute to the nation's effective management practices. The researchers note that companies owned and run by the founder tend to be the worst managed, followed by family-owned, family-run companies. On the other hand, dispersed shareholders are most effective at managing firms. In theory, the U.S. may have fewer family-run-and-owned companies than other countries. The researchers also looked at U.S. Census data to get a more detailed picture of the country's management practices. They found that firms in the South and Midwest were managed better than ones in the Northeast and West, but did not speculate on why. FREE AppDownload
REUTERSMarkets are moving today with  stocks tumbling 1% early in the U.S. trading session. Global markets went into risk-off mode overnight following the release of disappointing flash manufacturing Purchasing Managers Index survey data, which suggested that Chinese manufacturing may unexpectedly contract this month. "We expect more soft data prints ahead, as the impact of slowing credit growth seeps through to the real economy," said Societe Generale's China economist Wei Yao. S&amp;P 500 futures took an even sharper turn lower around 8:40 AM ET. Stocks have seen further selling since the 9:30 opening bell and the index is now down 0.9% on the day, trading at 1828. The Dow Jones Industrial Average has broken through to its lowest level of the year today. Right now, it's down 1.0%, trading around 16,210. 10-year U.S. Treasury futures and gold, meanwhile, are showing strength — up 0.5% and 2.0%, respectively (gold at $1264 an ounce). The dollar is down sharply against both the euro and the yen, and currency markets around the world are staging big moves. The yield on the 10-year note is now 2.80%, the lowest it's been in the year to date. Today's price action has erased two days of moderate losses in the Treasury complex. The charts below are, from left to right across the top, the S&amp;P 500 index, the dollar-yen exchange rate, and the euro-dollar exchange rate. Across the bottom from left to right are gold, 10-year U.S. Treasury futures, and September 2016 eurodollar futures. This morning we've had a number of economic data releases, including weekly jobless claims figures. The numbers, out at 8:30 AM ET, were better than expected, but they still gave a lift to gold and Treasuries. The preliminary results of Markit's January U.S. manufacturing PMI survey, out at 8:58 AM, were worse than expected — as was the FHFA's November house price index, out at 9, and December existing home sales data, out at 10 — but most of the moves in markets happened before then. Thinkorswim FREE AppDownload
The Kansas City Fed's January manufacturing survey came in at 5. Consensus was for a reading of 2, versus a prior reading of -3.  Full release » That was the first decline in 5  months — here's the chart going back one year. Kansas City Fed The employment index hit its highest level since October 2011. “We were encouraged to see overall regional factory activity grow in January after dropping last month,  said Chad Wilkerson, vice president and economist at the KC Fed. "Production fell slightly in January, which many firms again attributed to weather-related delays, but orders rose and optimism about the future increased.” FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsWe have made the argument on more than one occasion in the last few months that EBAY could be ripe for an activist picking (as recently as Jan 14th - New Trade $EBAY: eBAIT  and back in Nov EBAY Looking More &amp; More Like Activist Investor Bait).   There were obvious fundamental reasons that led us and others to speculate; stock’s massive under-performance relative to its peers in 2013, its strong balance sheet, rock-bottom valuation relative to growth, and the ability to unlock shareholder value with the potential of a spin-off of faster growing PayPal………but the main reason for us was the nature of the options flow.  It almost always had this contrarian smell to it. Scanning through our daily “Too Many Options” post where we highlight what we deem to be unusual untied, directional activity, large blocks pop up fairly frequently in EBAY over the last few months: January 14, 2014:  EBAY - looks like a bullish trader rolled calls out a month to catch next week’s Q4 earnings report expected Jan 22nd after the close.  The trader sold 32,000 Jan 52 calls at 2.08 to close and bought 32,000 Feb 52.50 calls for 2.28 to open.     January 6, 2014:EBAY - got hammered today, down almost 4% at the lows on speculation from Morgan Stanley that the company may be forced to lower long term guidance when they report their Q4 results on January 22nd.   Looked like a sizable roll traded in Jan weekly calls where one trader sold 52k Jan 24th expiration 56 calls at .36 to close and bought 27k Jan 24th 52 calls for 1.71 to open.  December 26, 2013: EBAY - Trader sold more than 50k of the Jan18th 55 calls to close at an average price of 1.327, and bought a similar amount of the Jan24th 56 calls to open for an average price of 1.61.  Trader likely rolled in order to capture the earnings event for EBAY in late January. November 26, 2013:EBAY - With the stock making new 52 week lows this morning, with the backdrop of new all time highs in major equity indices, one trader took a long term bullish position that breaks-even up 28% from current levels in July expiration.  The July 62.50/65 Call Spread was bought 50,000x for .275. Prior to that trade, another bullish trade went up but in Jan, where the trader bought the Jan 2015 52.50/65 call spread 10,000x for 2.93. As regular readers know, we rarely chase unusual options activity as it is our experience that without knowing the trader/investor and their thesis, you are merely throwing a dart at a board. Click here for more on the Ebay trade from Risk Reversal&gt; This article originally appeared at Risk Reversal .  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
AP/Charles KrupaJust as likely to climb up the ladder.A new study from Harvard looking at mobility has found that, contrary to popular belief, a child’s chance of moving up the income ladder has not been getting worse in the United States. However, the "Equality of Opportunity" study — based on a treasure trove of tax data — shows that the U.S. ranks consistently lower than most developed countries when it comes to mobility. From the New York Times: The study found, for instance, that about 8 percent of children born in the early 1980s who grew up in families in the bottom fifth of the income distribution managed to reach the top fifth for their age group today. The rate was nearly identical for children born a decade earlier. Among children born into the middle fifth of the income distribution, about 20 percent climbed into the top fifth as adults, also largely unchanged over the last decade. Things haven't gotten worse, but one of the study's authors told the Times that the odds of escaping poverty are only half as high in the U.S. as in highest-ranked countries for mobility such as Denmark. "Although rank-based measures of mobility remained stable, income inequality increased substantially over the period we study," according to the study. "Hence, the consequences of the 'birth lottery' – the parents to whom a child is born – are larger today than in the past." This visualization from the study shows how the "rungs" of the income ladder have grown further apart (that's inequality at work) but a child's chance at actually climbing those rungs hasn't changed. Equality of Opportunity FREE AppDownload
It seems like every young person on Wall Street wants to end up in private equity these days — great pay, interesting projects, and often smaller, more close knit companies are making the space very attractive. This means fierce competition. So what’s going to set you apart in an interview? According to Tom Murphy, Co-Founder of the private equity firm Crestview, above all else, you’ve got to be able to convey to others that you want to help. This is Wall Street, after all, everyone should be able to put together a model. In a recent Open Door interview with finance career site OneWire, Murphy says, “You’ve got to be smart…but it is impossible to walk into a room and impress everybody so singularly with analysis, insight, and math. You can walk into a room and impress people by showing them that you are a good guy who can communicate complicated ideas in a simple way.” There's making the model, and then there's explaining to companies how that model is going to make their business better. Murphy believes his focus on trying to solve other’s problems is one of the key reasons for his success: “I was comfortable making the management teams out to be the star, rather than making the Wall Street people out to be the star…I think most people like to be the star.” He continues, “If you show up and try to help, you’ll find that the world works pretty hard for you.”Watch Murphy’s insightful interview below or check out the Open Door series on OneWire.    FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia Commons/ PromkingAn investment banker at a mid-town Manhattan office wrote the following Seamless review after ordering a rare roast beef sandwich that turned out to be a total disaster.  The review doesn't appear to have made it through the Seamless review filter system, but it has made the rounds in email inboxes on Wall Street.   Check it out:  “I'd like to caveat this review by stating that I have never, in my entire life, been so compelled as to write a review for any establishment, of any kind. I was somewhat excited when I saw a restaurant that served a "Rare Roast Beef" multigrain bread sandwich - an oft-forgotten delectable way to prepare roast beef in a sandwich, and for $16 I was expecting top notch. Little did I know what was to come. We placed the order at 5:38PM (20-30 expected wait) and received no confirmation. We called the restaurant at 6:00, and were told they had not set up their computers...odd, but we took it in stride...so they retook our order by phone (a 10 minute process as the person on the other end struggled through understanding a simple order). We received a call 10 minutes later saying they received the Seamless order. The food came at 6:40PM. What came was a disaster. My $16 earned me a 5" x 5" *grilled* roast beef *panini* on *white bread* - 0/3 - not rare, not multigrain, and not a sandwich. There must have been 1 oz of meat on the sandwich, twice as thick in bread as meat, for sixteen dollars. Who charges sixteen dollars for a sandwich anyways? My colleague ordered a burger (a simple burger) "medium well". I thought to myself: "that's odd"...although, it stood out to me as I've never seen a burger ordered that well-cooked before. His burger came inedibly rare. Literally, this meat was so rare you would need a master ball to catch it. Needless to say he didn't eat it for fear of succumbing to microbial pathogens. [Restaurant Name Redacted], what you've just passed as a ~$27 meal per person is one of the most insanely idiotic things in which I have ever participated. At no point in this incompetently misrepresented  and overpriced experience were you even close to anything that could be considered as a viable Seamless option. Everyone who ordered this food is now angrier for having done it. I would award you zero stars (except I can't), and may God have mercy on your soul.” In case you are wondering, "master ball" is a Pokemon reference.  FREE AppDownload
Business Insider sourceShares of Herbalife tanked on Thursday after a Senator sent a letter to regulators asking that they investigate the company.  Massachusetts Senator Edward Markey (D) has sent letters to the Securites and Exchange Commission and Federal Trade Commission asking that they look into Herbalife's business practices. Herbalife's stock was last trading down nearly 11 percent after falling as much as 14 percent. "There is nothing nutritional about possible pyramid schemes that promise financial benefit but result in economic ruin for vulnerable families. Herbalife may be a purveyor of health and wellness products, but some of its distributors are suffering serious economic ill-health as a result of their involvement in the company. I have serious questions about the business practices of Herbalife and their impact on my constituents, and I look forward to receiving responses to my inquiries," Senator Markey said in a statement.  Herbalife spokeswoman Barb Henderson said the company will address Senator Markey's concerns.  "We received the letter from Senator Markey this morning and look forward to an opportunity to introduce the company to him and address his concerns at his earliest convenience," she emailed in a statement to MarketWatch.  Herbalife is a multi-level marketing company that sells nutritional products such as weight loss shakes and supplements. The California-based company's stock has been at the center of a massive hedge fund war for over a year now.   Hedge fund manager Bill Ackman, who runs Pershing Square Capital Management, is short Herbalife. In December 2012, he publicly announced he's shorting more than 20 million shares of the company with a price target of $0. Ackman believes that Herbalife operates as a "pyramid scheme" and that regulators will be persuaded to investigate the company and shut it down.  Herbalife refuted Ackman's claims.   Not everyone in the hedge fund world has agreed with Ackman's thesis, though. A number of hedge fund managers, including Ackman's rival Carl Icahn, have gone long the stock.  Since Ackman publicly confirmed that he's betting against the stock, Herbalife's shares have risen nearly 73%. Today, however, is the stock's biggest sell-off in a while.  Here's the statement from Senator Markey's office:  Washington (January 23, 2014)  After hearing serious complaints of improper pressure and financial hardship, including from a constituent in Massachusetts who lost her entire retirement savings, Senator Edward J. Markey (D-Mass) is calling for more information about the business practices of Herbalife Ltd. In letters sent today to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and to the company itself, Senator Markey queried each for more information about Herbalife’s operations. Herbalife, which sells nutritional and weight-loss products through individual distributors, promises its sellers significant monetary compensation in the form of additional bonuses and royalties if they recruit new sellers and establish their own network of product distributors. This compensation system appears to strongly favor distributors who focus on selling to other distributors rather than the general public, a common feature of pyramid schemes. Concerns also have been expressed that Herbalife aggressively markets its business opportunities to lower-income and vulnerable communities, many of whom are at greater risk if they invest their savings in business ventures that have little potential to turn a profit. According to 2012 data from the company itself, 88 percent of product distributors received no payments from the company at all.  One family in Norton, Massachusetts reported that it lost $130,000, including the family’s entire 401(K), investing in Herbalife. Another Massachusetts resident claimed that she was encouraged to recruit new members by approaching her family and also received pressure to spend money to buy more Herbalife products so that she could qualify as a so-called “Supervisor” in the Herbalife system. She also stated that she was encouraged to stay in the program even after she said she wanted out.   “There is nothing nutritional about possible pyramid schemes that promise financial benefit but result in economic ruin for vulnerable families,” said Senator Markey, a member of the Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee. “Herbalife may be a purveyor of health and wellness products, but some of its distributors are suffering serious economic ill-health as a result of their involvement in the company. I have serious questions about the business practices of Herbalife and their impact on my constituents, and I look forward to receiving responses to my inquiries.” Yahoo! Finance  FREE AppDownload
Nick Bastian Tempe, AZ Sales of existing homes in December were 4.87 million units at an annualized pace, according to the National Association of Realtors, below the consensus Wall Street estimate of 4.93 million. The December number represents a 1.0% increase from the previous month, which was revised down to 4.82 million units annualized from 4.90 million to reflect a larger-than-expected decline in November. "Sales fell at a 27.9% annualized rate in the fourth quarter, the lagged response to the surge in mortgage rates in the late spring and summer, but the pending sales index now suggests that the decline is over, for now at least," says Ian Shepherdson, chief economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics. "We expect little change in January sales, though the severe weather might have a modest adverse effect. Our bigger concern, though, is that the rising trend in mortgage rates we expect this year will keep sales under pressure and will, in time, bring the rebound in home prices to a halt." Below is the full text of the release: WASHINGTON (January 23, 2014) – Existing-home sales edged up in December, sales for all of 2013 were the highest since 2006, and median prices maintained strong growth, according to the National Association of Realtors®. Total existing-home sales, which are completed transactions that include single-family homes, townhomes, condominiums and co-ops, increased 1.0 percent to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 4.87 million in December from a downwardly revised 4.82 million in November, but are 0.6 percent below the 4.90 million-unit level in December 2012. For all of 2013, there were 5.09 million sales, which is 9.1 percent higher than 2012. It was the strongest performance since 2006 when sales reached an unsustainably high 6.48 million at the close of the housing boom. Lawrence Yun, NAR chief economist, said housing has experienced a healthy recovery over the past two years. “Existing-home sales have risen nearly 20 percent since 2011, with job growth, record low mortgage interest rates and a large pent-up demand driving the market,” he said. “We lost some momentum toward the end of 2013 from disappointing job growth and limited inventory, but we ended with a year that was close to normal given the size of our population.” The national median existing-home price for all of 2013 was $197,100, which is 11.5 percent above the 2012 median of $176,800, and was the strongest gain since 2005 when it rose 12.4 percent. The median existing-home price for all housing types in December was $198,000, up 9.9 percent from December 2012. Distressed homes – foreclosures and short sales – accounted for 14 percent of December sales, unchanged from November; they were 24 percent in December 2012. The shrinking share of distressed sales accounts for some of the price growth. Ten percent of December sales were foreclosures, and 4 percent were short sales. Foreclosures sold for an average discount of 18 percent below market value in December, while short sales were discounted 13 percent. Total housing inventory at the end of December fell 9.3 percent to 1.86 million existing homes available for sale, which represents a 4.6-month supply at the current sales pace, down from 5.1 months in November. Unsold inventory is 1.6 percent above a year ago, when there was a 4.5-month supply. The median time on market for all homes was 72 days in December, up sharply from 56 days in November, but slightly below the 73 days on market in December 2012. Adverse weather reportedly delayed closings in many areas. Twenty-eight percent of homes sold in December were on the market for less than a month, down from 35 percent in November, which appears to be a weather impact. Short sales were on the market for a median of 122 days in December, while foreclosures typically sold in 67 days and non-distressed homes took 70 days. According to Freddie Mac, the national average commitment rate for a 30-year, conventional, fixed-rate mortgage rose to 4.46 percent in December from 4.26 percent in November; the rate was 3.35 percent in December 2012. NAR President Steve Brown, co-owner of Irongate, Inc., Realtors® in Dayton, Ohio, said that with jobs expected to improve this year, sales should hold even despite rising home prices and higher mortgage interest rates. “The only factors holding us back from a stronger recovery are the ongoing issues of restrictive mortgage credit and constrained inventory,” he said. “With strict new mortgage rules in place, we will be monitoring the lending environment to ensure that financially qualified buyers can access the credit they need to purchase a home.” First-time buyers accounted for 27 percent of purchases in December, down from 28 percent in November and 30 percent in December 2012. All-cash sales comprised 32 percent of transactions in December, unchanged from November; they were 29 percent in December 2012. Individual investors, who account for many cash sales, purchased 21 percent of homes in December, up from 19 percent in November, but are unchanged from December 2012. Single-family home sales rose 1.9 percent to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 4.30 million in December from 4.22 million in November, but are 0.7 percent below the 4.33 million-unit pace in December 2012. The median existing single-family home price was $197,900 in December, up 9.8 percent from a year ago. Existing condominium and co-op sales fell 5.0 percent to an annual rate of 570,000 units in December from 600,000 units in November, and are unchanged a year ago. The median existing condo price was $198,600 in December, which is 10.9 percent above December 2012. Regionally, existing-home sales in the Northeast slipped 1.5 percent to an annual rate of 640,000 in December, but are 3.2 percent higher than December 2012. The median price in the Northeast was $239,300, up 3.6 percent from a year ago. Existing-home sales in the Midwest fell 4.3 percent in December to a pace of 1.11 million, and are 0.9 percent below a year ago. The median price in the Midwest was $150,700, which is 7.0 percent higher than December 2012. In the South, existing-home sales increased 3.0 percent to an annual level of 2.03 million in December, and are 4.6 percent above December 2012. The median price in the South was $173,200, up 8.9 percent from a year ago. Existing-home sales in the West rose 4.8 percent to a pace of 1.09 million in December, but are 10.7 percent below a year ago. Inventory is tightest in the West, which is holding down sales in many markets, and multiple bidding is causing it to experience the strongest price gains in the U.S. The median price in the West was $285,000, up 16.0 percent from December 2012. The National Association of Realtors®, “The Voice for Real Estate,” is America’s largest trade association, representing 1 million members involved in all aspects of the residential and commercial real estate industries. For additional commentary and consumer information, visitwww.houselogic.com and http://retradio.com. ### FREE AppDownload
Jim Chanos, who runs Kynikos Associates, has developed a new strategy for shorting stocks, the famed short-seller told the Wall Street Journal's Dennis K. Berman.  Chanos' new investment thesis focuses on companies with stock buybacks. Basically, Chanos believes that when companies engage in big stock buybacks they're actually displaying a sign of weakness as opposed to strength, the report said.   It's a sign that the companies think that their stock can return more than the their actual businesses. The Journal's article listed off a few examples of companies (IBM, Oracle, Honeywell) that had returns on stock buybacks that were significantly lower than the return on each company's business assets.   "Corporate CEOs, with their massive share-buyback programs are in effect investing in the stock market rather than in expanding business opportunities at their companies. Either they expect higher returns from the market, or lower returns in their business, or some combination of both. Given their questionable track record in timing the market, this may be a cause for concern," Chanos told the Journal.    Chanos didn't name specific stocks that he's shorting in the Journal's article.  Read the full report at the WSJ &gt; FREE AppDownload
Bryan Mitchell/Getty ImagesThe Tesla Model SBEIJING (Reuters) - U.S. battery car maker Tesla Motors Inc &lt;TSLA.O&gt; has unveiled what it describes as a "competitive" pricing strategy for China aimed at kick-starting sales in the world's biggest auto market, where demand for luxury cars has been booming. The Palo Alto, California-based company said on Thursday that a version of the Tesla Model S, a sleek all-electric battery car which sells for $81,070 in the United States, would retail for 734,000 yuan ($121,300) in China after shipping costs and import duty and other taxes. The company was referring to a Model S with an 85 kilowatt-hour battery pack. Global luxury automakers have been accused by Chinese state media outlets and others of reaping exorbitant profits selling imported cars often for twice or three times the price they charge in the United States and Europe. That accusation followed investigations last year by China's central government into how foreign companies in other sectors price their goods in the country. "This pricing structure is something of a risk for Tesla," Tesla said in a statement. "If we were to follow standard industry practice, we could get away with charging twice as much for the Model S in China as we do in the U.S." "We know that our competitors will try to convince Chinese consumers that our relatively lower price tag means the Model S is a lesser car, when the real reason their car costs more is that they make double the profit per car in China compared to the United States or Europe." Tesla said. Tesla began taking reservations for the Model S and its upcoming product called the Model X in China last August and has since opened a store in Beijing. The company has said delivery was expected sometime this year. (Reporting by Norihiko Shirouzu; Editing by Mark Potter) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Zoran Milich Flash U.S. PMI for January missed expectations, hitting 53.7. Expectations were for a reading of 55 versus 54.4 prior. Flash PMI is a preliminary reading of Markit's purchasing manager's index, a survey of economic activity among U.S. companies. Full release » Extreme weather led to the sharpest lengthening of suppliers’ delivery times since August 2008. All readings slowed — meaning they remained above 50 but fell — or contracted. Here's the full rundown: Markit Markit's chief economist Chris Williamson commented: “The flash PMI indicates that the manufacturing sector continued to grow at the start of 2014, and  that the underlying trend most likely remained  reassuringly robust. After allowing for companies  that saw production and sales disrupted by the cold weather, the rate of growth of output and orders remained as strong, if not stronger, than seen late last year. Output looks to be growing at an underlying rate of 2% per quarter, which is generating ongoing robust job creation of around   10,000 per month.   “The survey provides the first indication of national economic trends at the start of 2014, and suggests   that the worrying dip in non-farm payrolls seen in December is likely to have been a temporary blip in   a firmer long-term trend.”   FREE AppDownload
FlickrZHENGZHOU, China (Reuters) - Asia's top mergers and acquisitions bankers gathered two years ago at the swanky Island Shangri La in Hong Kong to celebrate the top deals of 2012. As the transactions were being toasted, one was unraveling. Advisers on Caterpillar Inc's $677 million purchase of ERA Mining Machinery Ltd picked up an award for cross-border deal of the year. The purchase was billed as a coup for Caterpillar, the world's top maker of tractors and excavators. ERA was the holding company for Zhengzhou Siwei Mechanical &amp; Electrical Equipment Manufacturing Co Ltd, one of China's biggest makers of hydraulic coal-mine roof supports. Siwei would help Caterpillar gain traction in the world's largest coal industry. "Siwei was going to be our Chinese business card," said a person with direct knowledge of Caterpillar's strategy. The night of the awards on November 16 three Caterpillar lawyers were wrapping up an eight-hour grilling of Wang Fu, Siwei's chairman. Major accounting problems had been unearthed at Siwei headquarters in the gritty Chinese city of Zhengzhou. Two months later, on January 18, 2013, Caterpillar said it had discovered "deliberate, multi-year, coordinated accounting misconduct" at Siwei. Wang was sacked. Caterpillar took a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $580 million - 86 percent of the value of the deal. The company says it was caught unaware by the problems at Siwei and only discovered them in November 2012, five months after the deal closed. A Reuters review of hundreds of pages of public documents, as well as interviews with former employees, board members, bankers and advisers, reveals a more complex story. Accounting problems were rampant at Siwei before Caterpillar bought it. Yet at multiple junctures, Caterpillar chose to ignore existing or potential problems and push ahead with the deal. A year and a half after directors of the Peoria, Illinois-based company signed off on the deal, it has become a case study in how a foreign company with decades of experience in China can still flounder in that market. It also shows how willing some multinationals are to accept risks they might otherwise avoid to establish themselves in the world's second-largest economy. The deal has triggered legal action against Caterpillar. In May, Caterpillar announced it had settled a dispute with Siwei's controlling shareholder, owned by an heir to the Crown Worldwide logistics company fortune and the former head of the American Chamber of Commerce in Beijing. Four shareholder suits filed in the United States in Caterpillar's home state of Illinois are continuing. Meanwhile, Siwei has foundered. Former employees told Reuters that as of September, the company had no new orders in 2013, and it had fired or furloughed about half of its workforce. Siwei's former CEO, Wang, says his books were a mess but he committed no wrongdoing. "We were a legend in the industry," Wang, 52, told Reuters, in his first media interview since the announcement of the write-off. Wang is now pursuing a second act: He has launched a new company with a nearly identical name in the same business. He has yet to build a factory, but says he can take Siwei's old customers when he does. When it bought Siwei, Caterpillar had been doing business in China for more than 30 years. It had amassed 20,000 China employees, dozens of manufacturing, research, logistics and parts centers and a broad dealer network. It had nine new facilities under construction, and had just completed the $8.8 billion purchase of Bucyrus, a mining and earth-moving company with significant China operations. When former Chinese president Hu Jintao dined with a group of American businessmen in 2011, Caterpillar Chief Executive Doug Oberhelman was included. But the company was slow to ramp up production of construction machinery in China and lost out on market share as a result, says Anthony Farmer, a former executive at Caterpillar. It didn't want to make the same mistake in coal mining equipment. China's coal industry is the largest in the world, but it also insular. Local companies, particularly state-owned enterprises, prefer locally made products, said Farmer, now at construction and mining consultancy Millton Group. Siwei was attractive. It once was state-owned, but no longer. That, and the fact that it was listed in Hong Kong - under the name of ERA - made it much easier for a foreign company to buy. Moreover, the roof supports it made - spatula-like hydraulic arms that keep underground coal mines from collapsing - were lucrative, since 80 percent of China's mines are underground. Siwei retained close ties to the government. In 2012 alone, it was visited twice by the Communist Party leader of Zhengzhou. Adding to the appeal, Siwei also had three high-profile investors with American ties. Li Rubo, an American-trained mining engineer and an early Siwei investor, had arranged mining deals in Russiaand Mongolia - sensitive undertakings that would have required political connections. Emory Williams, an American business associate of Li, was a major shareholder and chairman of Siwei's parent. He had invested in a Beijing concrete business back in the mid-1990s. The son of a former senior Sears executive, Williams had also served as chairman of the American Chamber of Commerce in Beijing. And along with Li, he had founded another Chinese mining company recently sold to another American mining equipment maker. The third investor was Jimmy Thompson. He was Li Rubo's son-in-law - and the son of billionaire Jim Thompson, who founded Crown Worldwide, the transport, relocation and storage giant. Li and Williams were part of the reason Caterpillar felt comfortable with the acquisition, several people with direct knowledge of the situation said. "They provided loans, they helped finance the company," one of those people said. Beyond that, their influence was limited. "The show was run out of Zhengzhou on a day-to-day basis. Unfortunately, they were further away from the business than I had expected," that person said. "Our reliance on them was the blind leading the blind." Li, Thompson and Williams declined to comment for this story. Steve Wunning, the Peoria-based president of Caterpillar's mining equipment division, Resource Industries, and then-Chief Financial Officer, Ed Rapp, pitched the idea of buying Siwei to the company's board of directors in October 2011. It was codenamed "Project Sequoia." The board expressed support for the strategy, according to court documents filed in the United States. The first sign of trouble surfaced quickly. On November 7, 2011, the board received a two-page memo explaining that Siwei would need an immediate $50 million loan for working capital. Excerpts of the memo were contained in the court documents. The memo explained that Siwei's customers weren't paying what they owed. It also noted Siwei hadn't made overtime payments to its workers and didn't hold operating permits required by Chinese regulations. Fixing these and other issues, the memo said, would cost CAT as much as $30 million. The board was unfazed. That same day, the directors voted for the acquisition, authorizing the purchase of Siweifor up to $964 million. It would be the biggest foreign machinery acquisition in Hong Kong or China since the country opened up for business in 1978. The board also authorized the loan for working capital. Four months later, in March 2012, the board received another memo signaling trouble at Siwei, court documents showed. The company had missed its 2011 financial targets, and its parent company, ERA, was going to report a $2 million loss rather than a $16 million profit. Wunning also told the board that Siwei's average receivables had grown to an extraordinary 371 days, according to filings in connection to the court case. Corporate filings show the amount owed to Siwei by customers had risen 58 percent per year since 2008, overtaking total sales in 2011. Some 90 percent of those debts were overdue when Caterpillar launched its bid. Mining equipment companies typically finance at least part of their customers' purchases. However, once accounts are more than 90 days old, they are almost always disqualified from being counted as collateral for loans. At six months, they are widely recognized as needing to be turned over to a collection agency, or they are written off or reserved in full, according to one of the four shareholder suits filed in the United States. The complaint says the receivables issue rendered Siwei's revenues and assets "highly suspicious and most likely wholly illusory." Unsold goods were also a problem for Siwei. At the end of 2010, the average number of days Siwei's products sat in storage was 414, double what it was during China's economic slowdown in 2009. Caterpillar spokesman Jim Dugan said the company would not comment directly on matters of "pending litigation." But he said Siwei's accounting problems were unrelated to the profit warning and other issues the company found during its due diligence of the acquisition. "The Siwei accounting issues that led to the goodwill impairment charge involved Siwei's falsification of its books," Dugan said in an email. "Therefore, Siwei's profit warning and failure to meet its 2011 targets, the $50 million working capital loan to Siwei, and other issues that came up in the course of Caterpillar's diligence were not 'red flags' as to the accounting fraud." The news release announcing Caterpillar's tender offer went out on June 6, 2012. Documents produced for one of the Illinois court cases show that Caterpillar's board of directors did not ask for the results of the due diligence investigation, which ran from about September 2011 until June 2012. The board also did not look into whether Siwei's financial problems had been resolved. And it did not adjust the offer price, the documents indicate. Siwei had been focused almost entirely on gaining market share. Getting customers to actually pay their bills came to seem like an afterthought, former executives told Reuters. "They would take orders without down payments, so they had to finance the whole thing," said a person with direct involvement with Siwei. The point "was to try to get market share." This person added: "These were all things we felt we could fix once we were on board." Caterpillar was so bullish on China, it may have been willing to overlook some of Siwei's problems, former insiders say. "There was also a lot of euphoria. We were really going to dominate. Not only in mining but also in China," the person said, and old China hands Williams, Li and Thompson would help. "Obviously it was too much, and we got burned." At first, Wang Fu was equally exuberant about the deal. Siwei's former CEO is a native of the northeastern Chinese province of Liaoning with nearly 30 years experience in the machinery industry. His first job out of college in 1984 was with the state-owned company from which Siwei would eventually be spun out in 2003. In Siwei's first year of operation after the spinoff, sales were less than 20 million yuan. Growth came quickly amid China's insatiable hunger for coal. By 2011, revenue approached 2 billion yuan ($500 million). On June 8, 2012, two days after the acquisition was completed, Caterpillar executives addressed Siwei's first post-merger board meeting in Zhengzhou. They pledged to preserve Siwei's culture and way of doing business. Wang says he was inspired. Siwei would retain independence, but be able to draw upon the experience and expertise of its new Fortune 500 parent. The excitement faded quickly. Accounts of what went wrong, why and how, now diverge completely in Peoria and Zhengzhou. In the interview, Wang said he knew Siwei's accounting methodology was bad, and its finance team too inexperienced to make improvements. He said as CEO, his primary concern had been chasing market share. "Better to have market share than to solve every single problem and lose the market." But his finance team, he said, couldn't keep up as the firm grew and orders poured in. Wang said he was proactive about the accounting problems. He raised it two or three times at Siwei board meetings, he said, hoping Caterpillar's more experienced finance team could help. He said the board gave him half a year to resolve the issue. Caterpillar denies that. Spokesman Dugan said Wang never brought the issue up and said Siwei's accounting problems - including the existence of a second set of books - were only discovered in November 2012, after Caterpillar found inventory discrepancies. Wang says there was no second set of accounting books. Wang said he mobilized employees in finance, sales, manufacturing and technology to dig into the accounting issues following the acquisition. At the time, Wang said, nobody knew exactly how bad things were. By October 2012, Wang found that costs were sometimes allocated to incorrect projects. Other times, the company had simply not capitalized costs, or had accounted for them improperly on Siwei's balance sheet. Siwei had also double-booked some sales, which led to inventory discrepancies. At the same time, however, by Wang's estimates, the company's income had been underreported by about 170 million yuan because it had under-valued equipment made in-house. Caterpillar spokesman Dugan said this account was not accurate, but did not respond to specific questions about whether Caterpillar had written off too much. Requests to interview Caterpillar Chairman and CEO Oberhelman were declined. In the months to follow, Wang's relationship with Caterpillar soured. Every decision, it seemed to Wang, had to go through Caterpillar's lawyers, and Wang said he rarely interacted with senior Caterpillar executives. At the end of Wang's marathon grilling by Caterpillar attorneys on November 16, the day of the awards ceremony in Hong Kong, the attorneys concluded there had been mismanagement but no fraud, Wang said. Two months later, Wang says he was told to drop by Caterpillar's China headquarters in Beijing at the tail end of a business trip. Company lawyers fired him, he says, and refused to answer his questions. The written notice said: "Your misconduct and serious dereliction of duty have caused severe damage to the company. You have also seriously violated company rules." Since Caterpillar bought Siwei, it has had no new orders for hydraulic roof supports, two former employees with knowledge of customer accounts said. The number of working employees fell to about 1,900 in September from about 4,300 at the start of the year, one former office employee said. Four other former employees corroborated the scope of the cuts. Wang feels Caterpillar never had a "comprehensive understanding" of Siwei's financial situation and believes he was the scapegoat. "It looks like it is precisely to justify and cover up a dereliction of duty by their so-called elite teams that an easily discovered management issue is labeled as deliberate, intentional fraud," he said. Caterpillar stands by its allegation of fraud. And it is trying to open a new era at the company it acquired. On November 8 it announced the company name had been changed to Caterpillar (Zhengzhou) Ltd. The Siweibrand, it said, would be phased out. (Reporting by John Ruwitch and Clare Baldwin. Additional reporting by Alina Selyukh. Editing by Bill Powell and Bill Tarrant.) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlo AllegriMarkets are moving, and there's still a decent amount of economic data coming up. Dave Lutz of Stifel Nicolaus has a roundup of what traders are chatting about ahead of the U.S. market open: Good Morning!   US Futures are under pressure this AM, with the S&amp;P marked off 50bp in early trade.   Nasdaq futures are performing better, off only 20bp – as EBAY and NFLX jump on earnings data, and AAPL has a slight bid early into next Monday’s report.   Our weakness follows  overseas markets getting hit – with Germany off 30bp in decent volume despite the EU fins up 40bp as Spanish and Portuguese banks rebound from yesterday’s smack.   In Asia, the Nikkei lost 70bp – and I’m seeing Nikkei futures marked off another 1.5%, as the Yen is catching a bid early.   Heavy focus was on China’s Manufacturing contraction – sparking weakness in Hong Kong and Aussie.   Miners were mixed as iron-ore halted its decline overnight, but Gold miners broadly lower.   In EM Asia, despite continued angst showing in FX – India managed a record close, and Thailand is jumping 1.4%.   Globally Banks, Materials and Property stocks are all underperforming in Asia. The 10YY is under pressure and nearing y’day lows, as Investors seek safety and take profits from the surge in PIIGS debt as Spanish unemployment jumps - € jumping the most in 3 months on Manufacturing data and headlines of a shrinking ECB balance sheet, and a break back upside 100dma against the $ is sparking short covering – While the Swiss Franc is jumping as SNB raises a capital buffer for Banks.   Overall, the DXY is under pressure, and looks for 50/100dma support closer to 80.5.  This is a tailwind for commodities, and we have both Silver and Gold jumping (Gold nice bounce off 50dma again), but Copper remains under pressure on that China data.   While Brent is retreating from 2014 peaks, interesting that WTI has a bid as we saw a massive build in API reported inventories – DOE data today at 11.   Nat gas is surging yet again, and has gained 15% in the last week, as a massive inventory drawdown is expected later this morning.    Some heavy economic data today – Weekly Jobless claims at 8:30, PMI at 8:58, Housing price data at 9 , Existing Home sales at 10, KC Fed and a small POMO at 11, and a $15B TIPs auction at 1. FREE AppDownload
TBIThe Department of Labor just released the latest weekly tally of initial unemployment claims. Claims climbed to just 326,000 from 325,000 a week ago. Economists were expecting claims to tick up to 330,000. The 4-week moving average declined to 331,500 from 335,250. "According to MNI the Labor Department estimated claims for the District of Columbia and Kentucky, both of which were affected by the holiday-shortened week," noted Barclays' Cooper Howes. Markets are doing much on the report. However, they remain in the red. Dow futures are down 56 points. S&amp;P 500 futures are down 5.4 points. FREE AppDownload
The fact that we're still talking about Bitcoin seems to suggest that it has some staying power. However, Jamie Dimon believes its standing as a currency will eventually end. Dimon, who is the CEO of JP Morgan, spoke with CNBC's Andrew Ross Sorkin about the so-called digital cryptocurrency. And he went on the attack. "It's a terrible store of value," said Dimon. "It could be replicated over and over." That speaks to the logistical issues. But what's worse is arguably the regulatory hurdles. "It doesn't have the standing of a government," added Dimon. "And honestly, a lot of it — what I've read from you guys — a lot of it is being used for illicit purposes.  And people who will get upset with it is governments. Governments put a huge amount of pressure on banks: know who your client is, did you do real reviews of that. Obviously it's almost impossible to do with something like that." However, Dimon doesn't think Bitcoin will go away altogether. "They will eventually be made as a payment system to follow the same standards as the other payment systems and that will be probably be the end of them," he said. This is coming from someone who is arguably one of the most powerful bankers in the world. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
While Microsoft Excel is an impeccable program, sometimes you're forced to scrounge for data from less organized places. Here, we look at one such example where the data that we import is all stuck in the same cell. Produced by Daniel Goodman and Walter Hickey. Originally published in July 2013. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
APFormer Nokia CEO Stephen Elop with Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer.Nokia earnings for the fourth quarter of 2013 are out. Here's the scorecard: EPS: 0.05 Euros Sales: 3.5 billion Euros Nokia says it sold 8.2 million Lumia phones last quarter. Lumia phones are the devices that run Microsoft's Windows Phone 8 operating system. Lumia sales had actually been growing quarter over quarter in 2013, but saw a decline in the final quarter. It sold 8.8 million Lumias in Q3 2013.  That's a troubling stat since sales declined during the holiday season. It's also a bad sign for the Windows Phone platform in general. Nokia is pretty much the only manufacturer that sells Windows Phones these days. HTC, Samsung, and others don't take the platform very seriously and concentrate on Android instead. Remember, Microsoft is still in the process of buying Nokia's smartphone and tablet business for $7.2 billion, but the deal hasn't gone through yet. Everything should be finalized before the end of the first quarter of 2014. Microsoft will report earnings this afternoon around 4 p.m. Eastern. Nokia says its phones did not sell as well as expected because of increased competition from other manufacturers. It blamed the fact that other companies are selling smartphones cheaply for the lack of interest in Nokia handsets. Smartphone sales are declining year over year.  (However, Nokia makes a few cheap Windows Phone models too.) FREE AppDownload
Earnings came in at $1.40 per share, which was a penny higher than expected. However, sales were weak. Global comparable store sales unexpectedly declined by 0.1%. Analysts were looking for 0.5% gain. "While 2013 was a challenging year, we begin 2014 with a renewed focus on the global growth priorities that are most impactful to our customers," said CEO Don Thompson. Here's a regional breakdown of comparable store sales: s we begin 2014, global comparable sales for the month of January are expected to be relatively flat," said Thompson. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jas Lehal Fireworks explode over the illuminated BT Tower in London October 31, 2009. French networking company Alcatel-Lucent and BT, the firms behind the joint-test, said speeds of 1.4 terabits per second were reached, the equivalent of sending 44 uncompressed HD films in a single second. The test proves that greater amounts of data can be sent through the existing broadband structure than previously achieved, allowing internet service providers (ISPs) to increase their capacity without the need for expensive upgrades. Conducted over the 255 mile distance between London's BT tower and Ipswich between October and November last year, the test made use of existing fibreoptic cables already installed in much of the country. Researchers used a 'flexigrid' infrastructure to create an 'alien super channel', consisting of seven channels each transmitting 200 gigabits per seconds, combining in a total capacity of 1.4 terabits of data per second. This results in a 42.5 per cent increase in data transmission efficiency compared to the current standard of broadband networks available. However, customers are unlikely to benefit from the greatly increased speeds for at least several years. Kevin Drury, optical marketing leader at Alcatel-Lucent, told the BBC the development was similar to increasing the amount of lanes available to traffic during rush hour. The Government recently announced a £10m fund to pilot alternative broadband technologies in Britain's most rural areas in the hope that 95 per cent of the UK will be connected to superfast broadband by 2017.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Gleb GaranichA protestor in Kiev throws a burning tire in clashes with riot police.Good morning! Here's what you need to know. — Chinese manufacturing unexpectedly contracted in January, with flash PMI falling to a six-month low of 49.6. That's down from 50.5 in December and lower than the 50.3 economists expected (any print below 50 represents a contraction). HSBC's Hongbin Qu said that the contraction was "dragged down by cooling domestic demand conditions." But Bill Adams of PNC Financial Services wrote that he is reluctant to read too deeply into the figure. "Chinese statistics, even ones as ably adjusted for seasonal variation as the HSBC PMI, tend to get a little fuzzier around the Lunar New Year holiday which falls on January 31 this year." — Meanwhile, economic activity in the Eurozone chugged along in the preliminary reading, reaching its highest level since June 2011 (at 53.2). "The euro zone’s recovery gained further momentum in January," Markit economist Chris Williamson said. "The upturn in the PMI puts the region on course for a 0.4-0.5% expansion of GDP in the first quarter, as a 0.6-0.7% expansion in Germany helps offset a flat-looking picture in France. Elsewhere across the region growth has improved to its fastest since early-2011, meaning the periphery is showing clear signs of starting 2014 on a firm footing." Though, Spain's unemployment rate did edge up. — Carl Icahn is at it again. The billionaire "activist" investor has taken a stake in eBay and is trying to get the company to spin off PayPal. eBay "hasn't done as well as it should have," Icahn said on Bloomberg TV. "There's no reason they should be together at this point." Worth noting: "The context here, as eBay's Q4 earnings show, is that PayPal is the real economic engine driving the company right now," explains our Jim Edwards. "Although eBay's auction biz is healthy, payments — and especially mobile payments — are super hot. PayPal revenue was up 19% to $1.8 billion in Q4, whereas the company as a whole grew only 13% to $4.5 billion." — After a relatively slow week, today is a busy day of economic data. At 8:30 a.m. ET, we'll see initial jobless claims. Economists believe weekly claims edged up to 330,000 from 326,000 last week. Furthermore, Citi's Peter D'Antonio writes that the Polar Vortex could have "kept some filers indoors." As a result, "we anticipate an above-consensus rise during the reference week as claimants took advantage of warmer temperatures," he wrote clients. — At 9:00 a.m., the preliminary U.S. PMI figure will be released. Economists believe the index climbed to 55.0 in January from 54.4 last month. "The Markit PMI has been signaling slower growth than has been borne out in actual manufacturing output figures," wrote UBS's Kevin Cummins. "It contrasts with the greater strength of the manufacturing ISM." The Kansas City Fed manufacturing index will come in at 11:00 a.m. — Also at 9:00 a.m. comes the FHFA house price index for November 2013. And then at 10:00 a.m., we get more housing data with existing home sales for December 2013. Economists are looking for sales to have climbed 0.7% to an annualized pace of 4.94 million. "Pending home sales ticked higher in November, suggesting some improvement in closed contracts," wrote the economists at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. "Since existing home sales track closed contracts, weather conditions are unlikely to have as big of an impact on activity (as compared to new or pending home sales which track signed contracts). That said, we would argue the risk is to the downside for this report." — In a letter to Congressional leaders, Treasury Secretary Jack Lew warned that the U.S. is likely to exhaust its borrowing authority by late February. Legislators will need to raise the debt ceiling to avoid a possible default, Lew wrote. "The Speaker has said that we should not default on our debt, or even get close to it, but a 'clean' debt limit increase simply won’t pass in the House," a spokesman for House Speaker John Boehner said, previewing the battle that awaits. — Asian markets were lower in overnight trading. Japan's Nikkei was down 0.79%, Hong Kong's Hang Seng fell 1.51%, and Korea's KOSPI dropped 1.16%. European markets were broadly higher, while U.S. futures pointed slightly lower. — Lenovo will buy IBM's low-end server business for $2.3 billion, which is the largest tech acquisition by a Chinese company, Reuters reports. The deal "underscores the growing clout of the country's technology firms as they look to expand overseas," according to Reuters. — The massive riots in Ukraine have escalated, with live streams showing how the streets of Kiev are literally on fire. After two activists were killed, the protests have intensified in recent days, and the photos depict Kiev as an absolute war zone.  Pantheon's Ian Shepherdson previews today's housing data: As well as the sales numbers, we also are interested to see what’s happening to prices. With inventory still at very low levels, the chance of sustained near-term declines in existing home prices seems quite small, despite the sharp drop in sales in recent months. The rate of increase of single-family home prices has slowed in recent months... but this follows a clear overshoot relative to the inventory position, so a slowdown was always likely at some point. Still, we will be watching these numbers very closely over the next few months, not least because we cannot be sure that the levelling off in the pending sales index marks the end of the adjustment to the increase in mortgage rates. FREE AppDownload
Joe Weisenthal, Business Insider Yesterday, Treasury Secretary Jack Lew said that the debt ceiling would be hit in early February and he urged Congress to address the matter ASAP. Tennessee Senator Bob Corker is in Davos, Switzerland, where he is going to speak on a World Economic Forum panel about U.S. competitiveness.  I asked him what to expect out of the upcoming debt ceiling battle. Here's his full answer: We just moved through the omnibus piece. I don't think there's been a lot of focus yet on the debt ceiling. I think people understand, on both sides of the aisle, that Washington has been a disrupting force that has impeded economic growth in our country. We need to figure out a way to, on the one hand, to always look for opportunities to constrain spending, and these moments have always been that — and let's face it, on both sides of the aisle through the years, when the debt ceiling has come up they've created an opportunity to get your fiscal house in order.  On the other hand, we did just go through an omnibus — a budget was passed. I have a sense that this one might not be quite as climactic as some of the others. But again, we're in a lull right now. People have been lulled to sleep on the fiscal issues that we have as a nation. That's unfortunate. Now's really the time that we should deal with those. It's a great time with the economy where it is right now. I can't predict what's going to happen. There will be some folks here from the governing bodies of our country. That's certainly something in private I'm sure there's going to be a lot of discussion about. There you have it. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsBritish 55th Division gas casualties during World War I. With many parts of the world gearing up to commemorate the one hundredth anniversary of the start of the First World War, Nouriel Roubini has solidified his hold on the title "Dr. Doom" by suggesting parallels between 2014 and 1914. There may be no Austro-Hungarian empire or Archduke Franz Ferdinand, but Roubini tweeted this from the World Economic Forum (WEF) in Davos today: #wef14 many speakers compare 2014 to 1914 when WWI broke out &amp; no one expected it. A black swan in the form of a war between China &amp; Japan? #wef14 Echoes of 1914: backlash against globalization, gilded age of inequality, rising geopolitical tensions, ignoring tail risks According to report from both The Financial Times and BBC, Abe said on Wednesday that China and Japan were in a "similar situation" to that of Britain and Germany ahead of World War One. However, Reuters reported that Abe's top spokesman has denied the Japanese leader meant war was possible or imminent, which is still unthinkable for many. Still, Abe said that China's increase in military spending was a source of instability in the region and he reiterated his calls for a military hotline to avert a conflict. In November, China tried to impose an air defense zone over a small collection of islands in the East China Sea, which the Japanese call the Senkaku Islands while the Chinese refer to them as Diaoyu. Abe himself is a hawk. Back in December, he visited the controversial Yasukuni Shrine, which honors Japan's wartime dead, including those who committed atrocities during the country's march across Asia during the Second World War. There are other areas of concern in the rest of the world for those seemingly keen to compare 2014 to 1914: the on-going Syrian civil war and its ramifications for the Middle East, as well as the future of Iran's place in the international community. The current protests in Kiev and Ukraine's pro-EU or pro-Russia dilemma raise questions over the rising power of Russia and how Western powers deal with this. Yet Roubini also mentioned the twin problems of a "backlash against globalization" and a "gilded age of inequality." The latter has been a watchword at Davos this year and has become the key focus of President Barack Obama's final term in office. In a speech to a think-tank in Washington D.C. last month, Obama described it as the "defining issue of our time." Perhaps 1914 isn't a good comparison, but rather 1848 and 1968 could be: the former a year of revolutions across Europe; the latter a year of socialist, communist and student protests in the U.S., U.K., France, Germany, Italy and the USSR. Will 2014 be the year when there is a growing backlash against the prevailing status quo and rising income inequalities? Of course, it is worth noting that the written history of World War One has come under much scrutiny in recent months, as politicians and historians debate over revisionist theories and nationalistic fervor. As Joseph Nye, a former U.S. assistant secretary of defense, has written: "Among the lessons to be learned from the events of 1914 is to be wary of analysts wielding historical analogies, particularly if they have a whiff of inevitability." "War is never inevitable, though the belief that it is can become one of its causes." —By CNBC's Kiran Moodley. Follow him on Twitter FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERSBEIJING (Reuters) - A Chinese municipal official was sentenced to death with a two-year reprieve for accepting more than $1 million in bribes, the official news agency reported on Thursday, highlighting the government's efforts to crackdown on graft. Zhou Jianhua had chaired the standing committee of the People's Congress of Xinyu city in the southern province of Jiangxi, Xinhua reported, citing the Jiangxi Higher People's Court. It said Zhou had accepted 10.2 million yuan ($1.6 million), tens of thousands of U.S. and Hong Kong dollars as well as three gold bars and objects worth 236,000 yuan ($38,991). A higher court is currently handling a retrial of the case, Xinhua added. Chinese President Xi Jinping has made fighting pervasive graft a priority since taking office last March and has warned, like others before him, that corruption threatens the ruling Communist Party's very survival. But the government's crackdown on activists calling for officials to disclose their wealth exposes Beijing's ambivalence in rooting out corruption as the leadership works to crush any challenge to its dominance. China has waged a ten-month campaign against the "New Citizens' Movement", which advocates working within the system to bring about change, including pressing officials to disclose their assets. Its leading campaigner, Xu Zhiyong, went on trial this week in the country's most high-profile dissident case in years. (Reporting By Megha Rajagopalan; Editing by Miral Fahmy) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/StringerChina rocked the Asian markets on Thursday when it was revealed that manufacturing sector activity unexpectedly contracted in January. The HSBC Flash manufacturing purchasing managers' index (PMI) fell to 49.6 in January from 50.5 in December. Economists were expecting a reading of 50.3. "The marginal contraction of January’s headline HSBC Flash China Manufacturing PMI was mainly dragged by cooling domestic demand conditions," said HSBC's Hongbin Qu. "This implies softening growth momentum for manufacturing sectors, which has already weighed on employment growth." But many economists are cautioning against going into full freak-out mode because a big national holiday is coming. "We are reluctant to read too deeply into this number," said Bill Adams, senior international economist for PNC Financial Services. "Chinese statistics, even ones as ably adjusted for seasonal variation as the HSBC PMI, tend to get a little fuzzier around the Lunar New Year holiday which falls on January 31this year." "Even the HSBC flash PMI reading is based on surveys conducted before 21 Jan, ten days before the LNY holiday (officially starting from 31 January), the flash PMI reading could still be significantly affected as the HSBC PMI sample is heavily dominated by small enterprises which may have sent migrant workers home several weeks ahead of the LNY holiday," said Bank of America Merrill Lynch's Ting Lu. "Also note that the different timing of LNY holiday makes seasonal adjustment extremely difficult, and thus inaccurate, for readings around the LNY season." Regardless, this doesn't take away from the consensus, which continues to believe 2014 will be a year of decelerating growth as policymaker pull in the reigns. "We expect more soft data prints ahead, as the impact of slowing credit growth seeps through to the real economy," said Societe Generale's Wei Yao. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Stefan WermuthIf you ask the random person at the World Economic Forum in Davos what the big issues are right now, they will probably answer one of four things: Inequality, the impact of technology on the economy, Iran, and tensions between China and Japan. Last night I ran into London Mayor Boris Johnson and asked him what he thought the big story of the conference was. His answer, summarized: Everyone will tell you here that they're thinking about inequality. What they're really thinking about is that because of the rebounding economy they're doing better this year than last year. Good answer. That being said, Johnson did agree that inequality was a huge issue, so mainly he was questioning the sincerity of everyone else talking about it. As for the situation in London I brought up the city's well-known property boom (which many people consider to be a bubble) that has made housing unaffordable for many Londoners. His answer: Lots more construction. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Fabian BimmerBERLIN (Reuters) - Stefan Soppe says he quit Germany's new anti-euro party months after joining because he was outraged at its shift towards right-wing populism and by the autocratic style of its leaders. The 45-year-old business consultant from the Ruhr town of Bottrop is not alone. At a time when the Alternative for Germany (AfD) had hoped to be building momentum before European Parliament elections in May, the party is struggling to contain infighting, define its message and stem an exodus of members. "Hundreds have quit as the party has moved ever further to the right and become nationalistic," Soppe told Reuters. He says he has received numerous threats by phone and email since he left and began criticizing the party publicly. The AfD did not respond to requests for clarification on how many members had quit the party, saying only that the membership numbered around 17,000, with 85 percent of those male. At a conference on Saturday in the Bavarian town of Aschaffenburg, the party will try to regain its footing with the launch of its European election campaign. Formed nearly a year ago by academics, journalists and businessmen as Europe's debt crisis was raging, the AfD called for an end to the euro and a return of the Deutsche Mark. The political consensus in Germany is clearly pro-European, but the party's message struck a chord with many people frustrated with hearing Chancellor Angela Merkel say that there was no alternative to bailing out struggling euro states. The AfD scored 4.7 percent in a German election in September, nearly making it into the national parliament and fanning hopes of a strong showing in the European vote, where fringe parties on the left and right are expected to do well. GERMANY'S "TEA PARTY" Dubbed Germany's "Tea Party", the AfD is still given a good chance of making it into the European Parliament, as the threshold for entry is 3 percent, below the 5 percent required in German votes. Recent polls show its support steady at 4-5 percent. And political analysts say the AfD continues to attract protest voters, economic liberals who want an end to European bailouts and social conservatives disillusioned with Merkel's shift to the center. The analysts doubt the Afd could achieve much at a European level, with few seats in Brussels, but it would give it a platform from which to campaign at home and eat into support for mainstream parties like Merkel's conservatives. However, the easing of the euro crisis has forced the party to scrap its calls for an end to the single currency, muddying its message. And divisions within the AfD have become more apparent, with members like Soppe bolting because they believe the party is catering to the far-right. "Nothing is good at the moment in the AfD," deputy leader Alexander Gauland was quoted as saying by German media last month, citing infighting in Hesse, Brandenburg, Bavaria, Berlin and Lower Saxony. If the AfD does not get its act together and fails to make the 3 percent hurdle for the European election, Gauland warned, it would be effectively "dead". CACOPHONY In a bid to shed its image as a one-issue party focused on the euro, the AfD is drafting a more comprehensive policy program. But that may backfire, says Klaus-Peter Schoeppner, head of the Emnid polling group. He believes the more detail the AfD provides, the greater the risk that protest voters - who tend to see what they want to see in the AfD - will be alienated. As the party tackles new issues, such as immigration, homosexuality and gender, the cacophony of diverging views within its ranks may grow louder. Unlike some other anti-euro movements in Europe, such as the Dutch Freedom party of Geert Wilders or Marine Le Pen's National Front in France, the AfD says it is neither nationalist nor anti-immigration. Concerned about its image in a country where overt nationalism in politics is frowned upon because of the crimes of the Nazi era, the AfD ousted senior members in the western state of Hesse over the past two months for their extreme views, in what one leader called a "cleansing procedure". AfD leader Bernd Lucke, an economics professor, has ruled out working with Wilders or Le Pen, saying his party is closer to Britain's Conservatives. But he has also railed against the threat of Bulgarians and Romanians "with eight children" moving to Germany for its welfare system. And when a high-profile German soccer player won praise this month when he came out as gay, Lucke made clear he did not regard the move as brave. Better, he told AfD members, would have been an avowal of the importance of family and marriage. Critics say the party is keenly mopping up support from far-right sympathizers, a tactic that may help them in regional elections later this year in eastern Germany where fringe views and frustration with the government are more widespread. A poll earlier this month put support for the AfD in the eastern state of Saxony at 6 percent, while the far-right National Democratic Party was down at 1 percent, well below its 2009 score of nearly 6 percent. In response, Soppe says he and hundreds of allies have joined together to try to bring the party down. "We've formed a resistance," he said. (Reporting By Sarah Marsh; Editing by Noah Barkin and Mike Collett-White) FREE AppDownload
APAfter a very slow week of economic data, today finally looks busy. There are the five big data points today. Here they are via Calculated Risk: • At 8:30 AM ET, the initial weekly unemployment claims report will be released. The consensus is for claims to increase to 330 thousand from 326 thousand.• At 9:00 AM, the Markit US PMI Manufacturing Index Flash for January. The consensus is for an increase to 55.0 from 54.4 in December.• Also at 9:00 AM: the FHFA House Price Index for November 2013. This was originally a GSE only repeat sales, however there is also an expanded index. The consensus is for a 0.4% increase.• At 10:00 AM: Existing Home Sales for December from the National Association of Realtors (NAR). The consensus is for sales of 4.90 million on seasonally adjusted annual rate (SAAR) basis. Sales in November were at a 4.90 million SAAR. Economist Tom Lawler estimates the NAR will report sales of 4.96 million SAAR. As always, a key will be inventory of homes for sale.• At 11:00 AM: the Kansas City Fed manufacturing survey for January. Extreme weather could affect the claims data. "While the DOL stated that there were no special factors during the bitterly cold 'Polar Vortex' week, we posit that the extreme weather kept some filers indoors," Citi's Peter D'Antonio wrote clients. "Consequently, we anticipate an above-consensus rise during the reference week as claimants took advantage of warmer temperatures. Separately, beneficiaries fell back into their recent range after a surge that likely reflected seasonal adjustment difficulties." FREE AppDownload
MarkitThe early economic numbers out of Europe are looking very encouraging. Earlier, we learned that the euro zone flash purchasing managers' index jumped to 53.2 in January, the highest level since June 2011. Any reading above 50 signals expansion. This is a preliminary measure. Still, it is up significantly from 52.1 in December, and it is well ahead of the 52.5 expected by economists. The euro zone's services sub-index improved to a four-month high of 51.9 and the manufacturing sub-index hit a 32-month high of 52.7 “The euro zone’s recovery gained further momentum in January," said Markit economist Chris Williamson. "The upturn in the PMI puts the region on course for a 0.4-0.5% expansion of GDP in the first quarter, as a 0.6-0.7% expansion in Germany helps offset a flat-looking picture in France. Elsewhere across the region growth has improved to its fastest since early-2011, meaning the periphery is showing clear signs of starting 2014 on a firm footing." Germany's Flash PMI number were particularly strong. The composite PMI jumped to a 31-month high of 55.9 in January, with the manufacturing sub-index jumping to a 32-month high of 56.3. "Stronger demand in the goods producing sector was attributed to higher business intakes from both domestic and foreign markets, with non-EU countries noted as a source of growth," said Markit's Oliver Kolodeiske about Germany. Markets are mixed in Europe. Britain's FTSE 100 is flat. Germany's DAX is down 0.1%, and France's CAC 40 is up 0.1%. Some of the momentum out of Europe may be hindered by China, where data continue to confirm an economy that is slowing. Overnight, we learned that China's flash manufacturing PMI fell to 49.6 in January from 50.5 in December. "The marginal contraction of January’s headline HSBC Flash China Manufacturing PMI was mainly dragged by cooling domestic demand conditions," said HSBC's Hongbin Qu. "This implies softening growth momentum for manufacturing sectors, which has already weighed on employment growth. As inflation is not a concern, the policy focus should tilt towards supporting growth to avoid repeating growth deceleration seen in 1H 2013." China is the world's second largest economy, and it is a major trade partner with Europe. Elsewhere in the euro zone, France continues to struggle. The country's flash manufacturing PMI improved to 48.8, which was better than expectations. But as it is a sub-50 reading, it signals contraction. "Weakness in the French private sector persisted in January, with output falling further, albeit at a reduced rate," said Markit's Jack Kennedy. "Moderate falls in new orders, employment and backlogs of work were also recorded, in each case across both the service and manufacturing sectors, pointing to a general softness that seems to show little sign of lifting." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jason LeeBEIJING (Reuters) - Lenovo Group Ltd, the world's largest PC maker, agreed to buy IBM Corp's low-end server business in a long-awaited deal valued at about $2.3 billion, the biggest-ever tech acquisition by a Chinese company. Lenovo will pay $2.07 billion in cash and the rest with stock of the Beijing-based PC maker, the company said in a statement to the Hong Kong exchange on Thursday. The deal surpasses Baidu Inc's acquisition of 91 Wireless from NetDragon Websoft Inc for $1.85 billion last year, according to Thomson Reuters data, and underscores the growing clout of the country's technology firms as they look to expand overseas. The acquisition will allow Lenovo to diversify revenue away from the shrinking PC business and remodel itself as a growing force in mobile devices and data storage servers. Analysts said Lenovo will likely find it easier than International Business Machines (IBM) to sell the x86 servers to Chinese companies as Beijing tries to localize its IT purchases in the wake of revelations about U.S. surveillance. The sale allows IBM to dump its low-margin x86 business - which sells less powerful and slower servers than the company's higher-margin offerings - and focus on the firm's decade-long shift to more profitable software and services. The unit had reported seven straight quarters of declining revenue. "What the business is worth to IBM is no longer relevant. The only thing that matters is what it's worth to Lenovo," said Alberto Moel, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein. "If Lenovo can improve the margins... that could offset any continued revenue shrinkage." Lenovo's purchase of IBM's ThinkPad PC business in 2005 for $1.75 billion became the springboard for its leap to the top of global PC maker rankings. The market is betting Lenovo will enjoy similar success with its latest acquisition, which is partly reflected in a 9.44 percent rise in its shares this year. Credit Suisse and Goldman Sachs advised Lenovo, PC maker said in its statement. HIGHER VALUATIONS Talks between IBM and Lenovo fell apart last year due to differences on pricing, with media reports at the time suggesting IBM wanted as much as $6 billion for the unit. Analysts said the sale may have been accelerated by IBM's China woes and ongoing weakness in hardware sales, after the world's biggest technology services company reported a 23 percent drop in fourth-quarter revenue from China on Tuesday. Revenue from its hardware business, including servers, fell for the ninth consecutive quarter as more companies switched to the cloud from traditional infrastructure. IBM's server business was the world's second-largest, with a 22.9 percent share of the $12.3 billion market in the third quarter of 2013, according to technology research firm Gartner. Hewlett-Packard Co is the biggest player, while Lenovo does not appear in the top five. "The acquisition presents a unique opportunity for the company to gain immediate scale and credibility in this market," Lenovo said on Thursday. The x86 unit has annual revenues of roughly $4 billion, analysts estimate. (Reporting by Paul Carsten; Editing by Denny Thomas, Stephen Coates and Ryan Woo) FREE AppDownload
Toyokazu NaganoStock markets around the world are mixed this morning. In Asia, the Japanese Nikkei closed down 0.8% and Hong Kong's Hang Seng finished 1.5% lower. In Europe, markets are broadly higher, led by France's CAC 40, up 0.2%. U.S. futures point to an unchanged open. After a slow week of economic data, this morning in the U.S. we'll get initial jobless claims, existing home sales, and Kansas City Fed manufacturing activity. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Phil McCartenThis morning in Davos, hedge funders Dan Loeb and Paul Singer, along with sponsors that included The Huffington Post and Microsoft, held a panel on gay rights around the world. Interestingly, the event — as Maggie Haberman first reported a couple days ago — wasn't an official event of the World Economic Forum. In fact, there are no official panels or events devoted to gay rights (even though there are events associated with other big social topics, including gender equality). We caught up with Loeb about why he got involved in this event. "It's an important issue to me... I'm a value investor, and I like to find things that are not appreciated broadly. This is an issue that's at a tipping point. We've had a lot of attention on it in the states with the marriage equality fight... I think this was a great panel because it focused on the plight of gay people. It's not about marriage in these countries. (It's about) gay people being murdered in Jamaica and imprisoned in Nigeria." Loeb is hopeful that soon the World Economic Forum will promote the issue of gay rights. "I think this is the sort of thing that will catch on very rapidly. To the extent the Forum is committed to making the world a better place, this is a great cause because it's a very solvable problem." As for what needs to be solved specifically, says Loeb, "There are two issues. In the United States, continuing to advocate for marriage equality and making sure gays can't be discriminated in the workplace. And internationally, there needs to be more awareness that in countries like Nigeria you can be put in prison for 14 years if you're gay, or 10 years just for supporting a gay organization.... And yet the Forum allowed Nigeria to put on the lunch yesterday... I don't think the issue has clicked with them yet. I think when it does hopeful you'll see some change and pressure put on these countries that this kind of discrimination is just not cool on any level." When asked whether Nigeria's sponsorship of a lunch at Davos had anything to do with their not being any official gay rights event, Loeb answered "I don't know." FREE AppDownload
Private sector firms in France reported the third straight monthly drop in output in January. Flash PMI moved up to 48.5 from 47.3 the previous month, according to Markit. "Slower falls in activity were recorded in both the service and manufacturing sectors," according to the report. "In each case, the latest drop was the least marked since October." From Markit's Jack Kennedy: Weakness in the French private sector persisted in January, with output falling further, albeit at a reduced rate. Moderate falls in new orders, employment and backlogs of work were also recorded, in each case across both the service and manufacturing sectors, pointing to a general softness that seems to show little sign of lifting. Meanwhile, contrasting trends in input and output prices were recorded, with the gap between the survey’s respective indices widening to the largest in nearly three years, as strong competitive pressures eroded firms’ pricing power and prevented the pass-through of higher purchasing costs to clients. Here's the chart from the report: Markit FREE AppDownload
Joe Weisenthal, Business Insider Want to get a sense of the prices in Switzerland? Here are the prices at the cheapest fast-food place in Davos. The prices are in Swiss Francs, so in U.S. dollars we're looking at $13 for the regular burger and nearly $19 for the double. Now maybe at a high-end place in, say, New York, $13 for a cheeseburger is normal, but this place was assuredly not high-end. Compared to McDonald's pricing, we're looking at well over double what you'd expect to pay for this kind of sandwich. FREE AppDownload
