Facebook, of course, has emerged from its days of racking up billions of members to become a very profitable public company. So one can forgive early believers like Andreessen for taking a few of victory laps, even if those laps are just short trots to the bank and back. Enjoy: 2007: “Irrational exuberance … Facebook is being valued by investors at nearly half the value of Yahoo … bubble.” http://t.co/w7siOTOK1y — Marc Andreessen (@pmarca) July 26, 2014 2008: “Social networking will become a ubiquitous feature of online life. That does not mean it is a business.” http://t.co/fgh18TgfU1 — Marc Andreessen (@pmarca) July 26, 2014 2009: “The prospect of a Facebook death spiral is very real.” http://t.co/PBHXd6Ik0t — Marc Andreessen (@pmarca) July 26, 2014 2009: “One can argue that Facebook is probably worth far less than the aforementioned $3.7 billion.” http://t.co/LeOMxm1iVW — Marc Andreessen (@pmarca) July 26, 2014 2009: “Famously overvalued Internet start-up businesses: $15B value for Facebook, $2.6B valuation for Skype…” http://t.co/Te2qpl0PpS — Marc Andreessen (@pmarca) July 26, 2014 2010: “Facebook’s $56 Billion Valuation Smells Like A Scam To This Guy” http://t.co/OpgirFr2zs — Marc Andreessen (@pmarca) July 26, 2014 2011: “Facebook’s stock price will drop more steeply than any other company’s in history.” http://t.co/n6pqNST8Sb — Marc Andreessen (@pmarca) July 26, 2014 2011: “Social networking is a bubble in the sense that e-mail was a bubble.” http://t.co/zfWKf95QWr — Marc Andreessen (@pmarca) July 26, 2014   Disclosure: Marc Andreessen is an investor in Business Insider. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlos BarriaChina has investigated over 25,000 people for corruption in the first six months of 2014. Probes into major cases were up 14% year-over-year. 182,000 officials were punished by discipline inspection agencies in 2013, up 13.3% year-over-year. Remember, Chinese president Xi Jinping came to power on the back of a very ominous message from his predecessor. In late 2012, outgoing president Hu Jintao warned that corruption could prove "fatal" to the Chinese Communist party, and even "cause the collapse of the party and the fall of the state." Xi, who has been described as "redder than red" took that message to heart. Under his watchful eye, China's anti-graft campaign has gathered steam. At first we saw an austerity campaign that warned against lavish gift giving and wasteful consumption. Soon that spread to the takedown of corrupt officials in the Chinese communist party, though some would argue that the seeds of this were sown in the downfall of former Chongqing leader Bo Xilai. Now, government officials have caps on daily spending when traveling around China. The Chinese military has been banned from buying foreign-made vehicles. The State Council is widening its probe into the use of public funds for travel, gifts etc among military officials. And officials have become nervous about being caught playing golf. Talking about the scope of this campaign in 2013, Xi said,"we must uphold the fighting of tigers and flies at the same time, resolutely investigating law-breaking cases of leading officials and also earnestly resolving the unhealthy tendencies and corruption problems which happen all around people." Zhou Zhenhong, former member of the Standing Committee of the Guangdong Provincial Committee and former head of the United Front Work Department, was sentenced to death with a two-year reprieve. Zhou, a "tiger" was found guilty of accepting $4 million in bribes and failing to account for about $6 million in assets. Zhou first came under the scanner in 2012.  Last year, Liu Tienan, former deputy head of the National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC) was expelled from the Communist Party after being accused of corruption. Liu was one of the first tigers to be caught in the anti-graft sweep across China, based on accusations made online.  Liu Zhijun, former railways minister was given a suspended death sentence for corruption and abuse of power. Su Rong, former party chief for Gansu, Qinghai and Jiangxi Province before moving to the CPPCC, and a "tiger" was under suspicion for violating party rules and state law. The latest to be ensnared in the crackdown is Rui Chenggang, a host on China Central Television (CCTV) and in the bigger scheme of things a fly. Caixin Online reported that he was detained shortly before his program aired on July 11. Li Yong at CCTV2 was also detained. The probe has also extended to other television executives like Guo Zhenxi, director of CCTV2. And now the campaign is shifting gears to focus on “naked officials,” those with immediate families that live abroad. Over a thousand naked officials were found in Guangdong province in June, with 200 of those officials asking their families to return home and 866 agreeing to demotions. Xi's Consolidation Of Power But there are two names that truly stand out. First, is Zhou Yongkang, a former Politburo Standing Committee member, is said be under investigation and so are three officials linked to him, Li Dongsheng, Jiang Jiemin, and Wang Yongchun. Of course for Xi the one happy coincidence to this corruption purge, is that it helps him knock off some of his rivals. "Power consolidation is of course very important and we should consider the ongoing investigation into Zhou Yongkang and his allies at least in part in that light,” Bill Bishop author of Sinocism told Business Insider.  "There is little doubt these people were engaged in remarkable amounts of corruption, and there are all sorts of unproven rumors about plots and deals among this group in the runup up to the 2012 18th Party Congress, but taking down this network has also allowed Xi to gain control over the security services, and much faster than most observers expected." "The other vital source of hard power is of course the military," explained Bishop, enter:  Xu Caihou, who once held one of the highest positions in the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) and was a member of the Politburo. Xu was expelled from the Party and handed over to prosecutors for accepting bribes. This of course is a further sign of Xi consolidating power over the PLA. Jim Chanos sees the corruption drive as a much more serious effort to "cleanse the party." Speaking on  Bloomberg TV's Charlie Rose Show he said, "If you look at the people's daily overnight announcements — I mean, there is four or five headshots put up on Twitter and on their website, of people who have been taken away every night. I mean it's almost as if you're seeing a Soviet-style 1930s purge through a social media." Some argue that this makes Xi more a Maoist, than a Dengist, with reference to Deng Xiaoping, China's paramount leader from 1978 until his death in 1997. But some argue he's neither. “I see Xi Jinping more as a Machiavellian than a Maoist,” Arthur Dong, professor of strategy and economics at Georgetown University told Business Insider. “The ends that Xi Jinping and his reform minded coalition wish to pursue relate to the long-term viability of the Communist Party.” "Institutional weakness as a result of endemic corruption on the part of government administrators has been a recurring feature of China’s past and one of the driving forces that led to the end of the dynastic cycle.  President Xi knows that for the Party to survive it must maintain its legitimacy," he explained. "Invariably, some of the accused represent views that come to differ with Xi’s. Their removal also presents the opportunity to remove a political rival. It is a messy game that Xi has so far been very adept at playing." "It is a mistake however, to conclude that it is just about reshuffling officials so Xi can put his people in place," Bill Bishop author of Sinocism told Business Insider in an email interview.  "I believe that Xi is serious about improving governance and cleaning up at least the more egregious corruption in both the Party-state and the military," Bishop said. "I think the anti-corruption efforts are also clearly about reining in and in some cases removing special interests that are resisting the very ambitious reform plans passed at the Third Plenum of the 18th Party Congress in November 2013." There is however a snag to the anti-graft campaign. Unlike other countries, in the short-run, cracking down on corruption actually hurts growth in China, according to Alastair Chan at Moody’s.  The austerity campaign that we saw in real force in 2013, deterred conspicuous consumption and lavish gift giving. At the time, it hurt sales of luxury goods, catering at high-end restaurants, and wasteful construction of government buildings. Top-end restaurant sales were down 35% YoY in 2013. Now Bank of America’s Ting Lu believes that corruption is going to start impacting fixed asset investment (FAI). “Even for the honest officials, the escalated anti-graft campaign is making them think twice before making investment decisions,” wrote Ting.  “The officials are increasingly cautious as they don’t want to be the next target of the campaign for the actions they have taken. Many feel the safest way during the heightened crackdown is to do nothing. This is part of the reason that Premier Li has repeatedly called for more action at local levels since May.” Ting points to "the abnormally high growth in bank deposits of governments and quasi-government agencies (up 28.3% and 23.6% yoy in February 2014 respectively),"  the slowdown in retail sales and FAI growth as factors weighing on the Chinese economy. Of course, Xi is aware that he can't terminate the campaign at this point. In fact economists expect it to continue for another two or three years. Moving forward Beijing is left with a tough choice between the social benefits of lower corruption or economic growth. FREE AppDownload
ReutersWal-Mart's top American executive, Bill Simon, is leaving the company.  Simon's sudden departure comes at a "very, very odd time," and speaks to larger trends in the economy, said Brian Sozzi, chief equities strategist at Belus Capital Advisors.  "A decision to replace a high-ranking leader of a major retailer BEFORE back to school and BEFORE holidays is no laughing matter, and speaks volumes as to the current trends in the U.S. business," Sozzi said in a note to clients.  Bill Simon will be replaced by Gregory Faran, who currently runs the retail business in Asia.  Earlier this month, Simon told Reuters that the U.S. job rebound wasn't translating to better sales at Wal-Mart.  "It's really hard to see in our business today that it's gotten any better," Simon told Reuters.  "We’ve reached a point where it’s not getting any better but it’s not getting any worse – at least for the middle (class) and down," Simon said.  Same-store sales at Wal-Mart's U.S. stores have fallen for five straight quarters.  Other retailers in the discount sector have also struggled with the weak U.S. consumer.  Family Dollar CEO Howard Levine offered analysts an ominous insight about his customers in a presentation earlier this month.  "The low end consumer has not benefited in this recovery at all in fact I think (they) have slipped further back," Levine said. Wal-Mart will report earnings in mid-August.  FREE AppDownload
We spoke to a bar owner to find out how drink prices are set. Produced by Sara Silverstein. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
ObeoA 21,750-square-foot home in Indian Creek has sold for $28 million, according to The Wall Street Journal.  Leroy Schecter, chairman of steel manufacturing company Marino/Ware Industries, has had the house on the market since 2008, with the price set as high as $45 million in 2012. Listing agent Nelson Gonzalez of EWM Realty International said that New York-based Schecter is selling because he "just wasn't using the house," and plans to donate the $28 million in proceeds to charity.  The home features seven bedrooms, 12.5 bathrooms, an elevator, a lower level with a seven-car garage, a billiards room, a gym, and a wine cellar. Meredith Galante contributed to this post. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersPackages of Tyson food beef meat loaf are reflected in a mirror as they sit on a refrigerator shelf for sale at a grocery store in Encinitas(Reuters) - Tyson Foods Inc &lt;TSN.N&gt; said it will discontinue operations at three of its factories which make processed meat products such as sausages and hot dogs, affecting about 950 people. The largest U.S. meat processor, which won the bidding war for Hillshire Brands Co &lt;HSH.N&gt; in June, said the closures were not related to the acquisition. "The closings were under consideration long before our decision to pursue Hillshire Brands", Tyson spokesman Gary Mickelson told Reuters. Tyson outbid Pilgrim's Pride Corp &lt;PPC.O&gt; with its $63 per share offer for Hillshire, valuing the Jimmy Dean sausages maker at $8.55 billion. The closures were due to changing product needs, an aging Cherokee, Iowa factory and the distance of the Buffalo, New York and Santa Teresa, New Mexico plants from their raw material supply base, the company said on Friday. "The consolidation helps them get transportation efficiencies," Chris Hurt, an agricultural economist with Purdue University, said. The number of beef cattle in the United States is at its lowest level in 63 years due to severe droughts, reducing the amount of meat available to process. The Cherokee factory will close on Sep. 27, while the other two are expected to stop operating in the first half of 2015. The U.S. Department of Labor's Occupational Safety and Health Administration had cited the Buffalo factory for workplace safety hazards last November and proposed fines of about $122,000. Tyson contested the citations and settled the case in May, agreeing to pay $105,000 in fines. The closures will affect 450 employees at Cherokee, 300 at Buffalo and 200 at Santa Teresa. The company had about 115,000 employees as of last September. Shares of the company, which will report quarterly results on Monday, were little changed at $39.49 in extended trading on Friday.   (Reporting by Sruthi Ramakrishnan in Bangalore and P.J. Huffstutter and Tom Polansek in Chicago; Editing by Joyjeet Das) FREE AppDownload
CNNIn this week's Barron's cover story, Tiernan Ray tackles one of tech's biggest buzz phrases: the "Internet of Things."  Ray notes, however, that the wearable devices and "supposedly smart watches" that have so far emerged from this new category of technology have underwhelmed. But these tepid early results do not mean companies have stopped — or will stop — trying to make wearable, connected devices. As a result, there are a number of companies ready to benefit from this continued push. Ray notes that computer chip makers like Texas Instruments and Atmel could benefit from a comeback in the Internet of Things after losing the battle for smartphones.  Chip makers OmniVision and InvenSense, however, could be set for a real boom in a wearable revolution. Ray notes that Amazon's Fire phone already includes four OmniVision chips, and cites a source close to the company that says, "OmniVision sells 900 million units a year, but what if they get to 20 billion units?" InvenSense, which Ray notes makes accelerometers, could benefit from wearable fitness devices that track your movement while cycling or playing tennis, for example. With all of these chips being added to devices, however, battery life is a concern, which is where Ray says QuickLogic's technology comes in. Ray writes that QuickLogic's, "programmable chips can be designed and manufactured and then modified numerous times for use in difference devices," allowing them to be used to maximize battery-life efficiency.  And as chips go in more and more places, NXP Semiconductors, which already provides sensor hub technology inside Apple's iPhone 5S, as well as hearing aids and passports, is well-positioned.  Read the whole feature over at Barrons.com. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA woman walks past the Time Warner Center near Columbus Circle in Manhattan, New YorkWASHINGTON (Reuters) - Rupert Murdoch’s 21st Century Fox is open to giving Time Warner Inc shareholders seats on the new company's board if its takeover bid succeeds, Bloomberg reported on Saturday, citing people familiar with the situation. Board representation could appear in a revised proposal, Bloomberg cited one of the people as saying. It did not say how many board seats were being considered and added the two sides are not currently in negotiations. Time Warner's board rejected Murdoch's $80 billion takeover offer earlier this month, but the Fox chairman and chief executive officer is expected to continue the pursuit. Bloomberg said the offer of board seats as part of an increased bid could help allay concerns of Time Warner investors about the dual-class stock structure that gives control to Murdoch, 83, and his family. Nathaniel Brown, a spokesman for New York-based Fox, and Keith Cocozza, a spokesman for Time Warner, declined to comment on whether the companies have discussed board seats, Bloomberg said. Mario Gabelli, one of Time Warner’s longest standing shareholders, said in an interview with Bloomberg last week that Murdoch should offer Time Warner investors a couple of board seats. In a deal announced Friday, Britain's BSkyB agreed to pay $9 billion to buy Murdoch's pay-TV companies in Germany and Italy. Fox is expected to use the proceeds to fuel its pursuit of Time Warner. (Writing by Frances Kerry; Editing by Toby Chopra) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe Chevrolet logo is seen before the New York Auto Show in New YorkDETROIT (Reuters) - U.S. safety regulators are investigating the potential for air bags to fail because of software issues in older Chevrolet Impala sedans made by General Motors Co &lt;GM.N&gt;, after receiving a consumer complaint about an alleged incident in Texas. The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration said Friday that it has opened a probe into about 320,000 Impalas from model year 2008, but would also look at 2007 and 2009 models. GM has recalled nearly 15 million vehicles this year, including the Impala, for ignition switch issues that could cause air bags to fail in a crash. One of the recalls, in June, included Impalas from model years 2006-2014. In a July 2 letter to NHTSA, GM said a heavy key ring on those cars could pull the ignition key out of the run position, which could shut off the engine and cut power to steering and air bags. NHTSA's new investigation of the 2008 Impala involved a separate issue. It was in response to a November 2013 petition by Donald Friedman, a principal in a California research firm and an expert witness in product liability litigation, on behalf of an elderly couple involved in a crash of a 2008 Impala in Texas. After receiving additional information this year from Friedman and reviewing its own crash databases, NHTSA said it opened the probe "in an abundance of caution." Friedman asked NHTSA specifically to investigate the software that controls passenger-side air bag deployment in a crash on all 2004-2010 GM models. In the Texas crash, the driver's air bag deployed, but the front passenger's did not. Both occupants were injured, according to Friedman's complaint.   (Reporting by Paul Lienert; Editing by Frances Kerry) FREE AppDownload

It's the rise of the machines. Robo-advisors, which have made headlines in recent years, are online investment management sites like Wealthfront and Betterment that manage your investments for you through unique algorithms. The nickname "robo-advisor" might be more sensationalist than it is accurate. "I think this whole robo-advisor terminology is a misnomer," says Phil Fragasso, who evaluates the effectiveness of financial advisors through his company Audit Your Financial Advisors. "They're not advisors. They're really more like a fund of funds, like a mutual fund company." Semantics aside, they're now a viable option for investors looking to grow their wealth. Below, we pit humans (whom we'll refer to as investment advisors) and robots head to head to see who wins when it comes to managing your investments. This is where robo-advisors shine. There's no need to get into the weeds here, because both Wealthfront and Betterment devote considerable real estate to explaining their fairly straightforward and transparent pricing structures on their websites. Wealthfront requires a minimum investment of $5,000; Betterment does not have a minimum. Investment advisors, on the other hand, sometimes require a minimum portfolio value, and they can be unclear about how exactly they're charging you. Those are both case by case, but when it comes down to the numbers, Wealthfront points out that investment advisors traditionally charge a 1.31% average fee, while the robotic alternative charges 0.25% in advisory fees after the first $10,000. Betterment charges a 0.15%-0.35% management fee. (Both companies also charge fees for the ETFs — about 0.15% per year.) SigFig, another player in the field, charges a flat $10 a month. Winner: Robots. Between email, Skype, and the trusty old cell phone, it's not like you have to trek to your investment advisor's office on the regular. In fact, working with an investment advisor doesn't even require that most people keep him or her on speed dial — it's more that they're there to check in with at regular intervals. But once again, robo-advisors win the round. While he doesn't recommend robo-advisors, Fragasso admits that they're a viable choice for people who simply aren't going to take the time to learn about managing their money. It's a good fit, he says, "if you have a personality where you just don't want to deal with it — the type of person who starts a job at 24, set a 401(k) allocation, and never changes it. You set it and forget it." Winner: Robots. Money is never just money. It's your kid's college fund, your European vacation, your quiet house on a cul-de-sac. For that reason, setting and forgetting your investments may not be the most effective way to achieve your goals. An investment advisor's strength lies in their ability to translate your dreams of an oceanfront beach house into a dollar figure, and to create a plan to get there. A robo-advisor takes only the information you give it and formulates a plan based on numbers — and your financial future is rarely focused on just the numbers. Plus, which is better able to motivate you to focus on your goals: an email statement, or a phone call from your advisor? Winner: Humans. Now, things are getting thorny. Because they're meant to suit a wide range of people, portfolios managed by robo-advisors tend to be heavily invested in conservative products like ETFs. While not particularly volatile, ETFs aren't known for their staggering returns. It's like every skydiver ever posted on his Instagram: No risk, no reward. Lance Roberts of "StreetTalkLive" wrote this year that the investments made by robo-advisors are sound, but based on a longer time frame than most investors actually experience. His analysis is worth reading. The simple fact is that money invested conservatively will yield higher returns than money not invested at all — so if it comes down to using a robo-advisor or not investing at all, robo is usually the wiser choice. Investment advisors, on the other hand, certainly aren't guaranteed to outperform their robotic friends, but they have the perspective and context to adjust investments to your needs. An advisor's perspective is particularly useful if you have a large portfolio or a complicated financial situation. If you're investing over $100,000, Fragasso cautions, you shouldn't be doing it with a robo-advisor. Winner: Humans. Use a robo-advisor if you … - Want to set and forget your investments- Feel more comfortable working online than with a person- Aren't investing a large amount of money Use an investment advisor if you … - Want to be involved in your investments- Are interested in strategic risk-taking- Are investing a large amount of money Remember that you don't have to use one to the exclusion of the other. First of all, humans and robots usually don't directly compete for the same clients (there's that minimum investment requirement, again). And as your investment needs change, so might your strategy — as well as the help you enlist.  Plus, no one is stopping you from managing your portfolio yourself. Even Wealthfront says right off the bat, "You are welcome to copy anything we do if you would rather do it yourself." A previous version of this article misstated that Wealthfront does not have a minimum investment. FREE AppDownload
Skye Gould/Business InsiderIf we're being honest, London hasn't always been known for its five-star dining options. But a recent culinary revolution has made it a standout destination for gourmands everywhere. We've come up with this ultimate list of the best restaurants in London. To create it, we looked at notable restaurant rankings compiled by food critics, diners, and experts, and gave each restaurant a numerical rating based on our own formula. The rankings we used were the National Restaurant Awards 2014, The World's 100 Best Restaurants, Zagat's Best Food In London 2013, OpenTable's 2013 Best Restaurants in the UK, TimeOut London's Top 50 Restaurants, The Michelin Guide Great Britain and Ireland 2014, and The Square Meal's 3-Star Restaurants. You can read our complete methodology and see numerical scores here. FREE AppDownload
Editor's note: On Monday, Zillow agreed to purchase Trulia for $3.5 billion in stock. This recent column nailed the significance of the deal. If Zillow and Trulia join forces, could they take over the industry? The real-estate selling industry will need to concede, either formally or informally. Informally, we have already given up. We are not a union and there is no real leadership among realtors. We are independent contractors spread all over the map, literally and figuratively, so trying to get us to rally for the cause will be met with indifference. Many of us already think Zillow could be a big improvement for the business. Let them spend the big money of advertising. We’ll contribute our share in exchange for specialized leads — consumers drawn to our own listings or those looking for a local expert in our target areas. How will it evolve? The Next Phase 1. Realtor.com-Move Inc. makes a wimpy attempt to compete by spending half of the advertising money being spent by Zillow-Trulia to attack their inaccuracies (campaign currently underway). If you want a chuckle, here’s an example:  2. Corporate real-estate companies join forces with Zillow (also underway). 3. Local MLS companies do nothing. Zillow and Trulia will continue to dominate the headlines for the next few months, and Realtor.com will be forgotten by consumers. The local MLS systems don’t have to die — they just need to be irrelevant or a duplicate. Our local Sandicor MLS is faster and more accurate than the listings on Zillow, but does the consumer really NEED listings updated every 10 to 15 minutes? Realtors might, but not the consumers — they are on auto-notifications and will get the new listings soon enough (the frenzy is over, reducing the need for speed). Can we all coexist? Yes, but Zillow has shown a killer instinct and has loads of VC money behind it. I think they will pursue all angles — and here’s the one that will divide and conquer the realtor community. The Kill Shot Previous attempts by Realtor.com and Redfin to produce an agent-rating or -ranking site was met with vigorous opposition from realtors. Why? Because most realtors don’t want their sales history out in the open. But the successful and powerful agents stand to benefit greatly — the same ones who can and will pay Zillow the big money for advertising. It is a natural fit for Zillow to buddy up to the top producers and get them to help promote their new agent-ranking site. The cabal will be shattered. The local associations of realtors and the MLS companies who have feasted on having realtors paying dues regardless of production will suffer — and should die off completely if 20% of the realtors are doing 80% of the business. They can’t survive an 80% reduction in dues. When consumers see that their agent-friend down the street hasn’t sold a house in six months – they will hesitate. The Zillow advertising will encourage you to select one of their top producers instead (the ones paying for advertising). It should clear out the realtor population within a year or two, and turn upside down the local associations, MLS companies, and the top-heavy big corporations who own real estate franchises. Realtors won’t really need a brand — Zillow will be the brand. With Zillow-Trulia getting all the eyeballs, and realtors on the receiving end of those leads, Z-T would be smart to cater to the top producers. The momentum would shift rapidly as success stories appear on Zillow ads too. I’ve been paying about $500 a month to each of the three portals. Realtor.com: no calls or leads. Trulia.com: unqualified leads. Zillow.com: Listings get high traffic early, and I get calls looking for an agent in the area. It’s the kind of results that realtors want, and I’m already convinced that I can reach the consumers and sell homes using Zillow only. The future is here, but I’m not sure it will get cheaper. Yesterday, a Zillow rep called to offer me some exposure in another local ZIP code that was about the same as I already have. I pay $550 a month now, and the new but similar package offered $850 a month. Zillow might keep the cost of commissions right where they are. This article originally appeared at BubbleInfo.com.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Flickr - wanderingzThere is little more frustrating for us as consumers than really bad customer service. The topic is fresh on our minds thanks to that nightmare call recorded by a journalist trying to cancel his comcast service. Usually, bad customer service experiences aren't as public, but they happen all the time and can have a significant impact on a business' success. A 2009 study in China, noting that there wasn't a wealth of research tying customer satisfaction to profit, tried to get to the bottom of it. Their conclusion is powerful. "The results show that non-financial measure, customer satisfaction, is significantly associated with contemporary and future financial performance. Furthermore, the enterprises with higher-level customer satisfaction than others will enjoy higher profitability." Put simply, customer satisfaction has been proven to have a direct relationship with financial success. We got curious about who consumers think are the absolute worst, and found some answers. The website Ranker.com, with more than 14 million fans has a comprehensive crowd-sourced ranking on the subject. There have been more than 23,000 votes and over 4,000 voters. Here's how they're voting.   The consumer electronics giant comes in at number eight on the list. This is interesting given that Best Buy reportedly has plans to better train their staff to compete with companies like Amazon. One of Best Buy's biggest customer service offerings is their "Geek Squad," that helps people install and set up gear they buy at the store.     Citibank comes in at number 7. Citigroup has been in the news a lot lately thanks to a $7 billion fine and settlement over investigation into pre-crisis mortgage practices. Citigroup is the third largest holding company in the United States as of March 31, 2014. You might think based on the recent service call mayhem that the communications company would be first on this list, but that's not the case. It will be very interesting to see how the customer service experience changes as the purchase of Time Warner shakes out. Since the merger with US Airways, they are now the world's biggest airline. But according to this list, at least, that hasn't meant great customer service. It's still all very new, though, and time will tell how much better or worse the customer experience will be on the heels of this merger. According to the NRF, Wal-Mart is the biggest mass merchant in the United States. When you're that large it's a real challenge to keep everyone happy, and Wal-Mart has had varying success. We recently wrote about a man who discovered Wal-Mart refused to price match their online prices in stores. The Charlotte-based banking giant comes in at number three. Forbes ranks Bank of America as the 13th biggest company in the world. Recently, they announced they were lowering their threshold for people qualifying for loan discounts and other benefits. Now that the company is set to merge with Comcast, we'll have to wait and see if Time Warner Cable is able to improve their customer service. Of course, according to the American Consumer Satisfaction Index, subscription television service doesn't have a great reputation. Number One on Ranker's list is the second-largest wireless phone carrier in the United States (note that Verizon, number one, did not make this list). And they're set to get even bigger with a DirecTV merger.     FREE AppDownload
The New YorkerThe New Yorker relaunched its website today with a complete makeover, signaling the first step in the magazine's new focus on the web. Part of that initiative is the magazine's decision to open up its archives (2007 to present as well as selected pieces) to the general public for the rest of the summer. Until the website puts up its metered paywall sometime in the fall, the New Yorker editors will be releasing curated collections of stories periodically. We pulled out a selection of our favorite stories from the archives that you should definitely check out while they're free. German-American political theorist Hannah Arendt examined nothing short of the nature of evil in her 1961 reporting on the trial of Nazi SS officer Adolf Eichmann. In her dispatches — which many have called a masterpiece — Arendt coined the phrase "the banality of evil" to describe Eichmann, who she contended was not a "monster" but "terribly and terrifyingly normal." While some have since criticized her conclusions about Eichmann, her work still forms the basis for much of our understanding of the Nazi apparatus.  From the first dispatch: Half a dozen psychiatrists had certified Eichmann as "normal." "More normal at any rate, than I am after having examined him," one of them was said to have exclaimed, while another had found that Eichmann's whole psychological outlook, including his relationship with his wife and children, his mother and father, his brothers and sisters and friends, was "not only normal, but most desirable … Behind the comedy of the soul, experts lay the hard fact that Eichmann's was obviously no case of moral insanity. AP A huge expanse of ruins left the explosion of the atomic bomb on Aug. 6, 1945 in Hiroshima. 140,000 people died because of the disastrous explosion.A little more than one year after the U.S. dropped the atomic bomb on the Japanese city of Hiroshima, The New Yorker dedicated an entire issue to a single article. It was a startling choice necessitated by one of the most momentous acts of destruction in history. In a bid to force its readers to consider "the terrible implications" of the atomic bomb, The New Yorker's John Hersey followed the stories of six survivors immediately prior to the bombing until one year after the bombing. The issue was an unrivaled success. It sold out on newsstands in hours, radio networks broadcast readings of the story with well-known actors, and it became an instant best-seller. From Hersey:  A hundred thousand people were killed by the atomic bomb and these six were among the survivors. They still wonder why they lived when so many others died. Each of them counts many small items of chance or volition — a step taken in time, a decision to go indoors, catching one streetcar instead of the next – that spared him. And now each knows that in the act of survival, he lived a dozen lives and saw more death than he ever thought he would see. At the time, none of them knew anything. AP PhotoActivist and author Rachel Carson, whose book "Silent Spring" led to a study of pesticides, testifies before a Senate Government Operations Subcommittee in Washington, D.C. on June 4, 1963. Few books have had the kind of effect that Rachel Carson's "Silent Spring" had when it was released in 1962. The book, which documented the deleterious effect that widespread use of pesticides have on the environment, was actually first serialized in The New Yorker in June 1962. Carson's work directly led to the modern environmental movement in the U.S. as well the ban of the destructive insecticide DDT. Carson's work played a large role in the creation of the Environmental Defense Fund in 1967 and the Environmental Protection Agency in 1970. From Carson: Only within the moment of time represented by the present century has one species — man — acquired significant power to alter the nature of the world. AP PhotoThis is a 2003 file image obtained by The Associated Press which shows an unidentified detainee standing on a box with a bag on his head and wires attached to him in late 2003 at the Abu Ghraib prison in Baghdad, Iraq.Though abuses at Abu Ghraib Prison in Iraq were reported by the media as early as November 2003, it wasn't until dueling reports came out from "60 Minutes" and The New Yorker in 2004 that the scandal was blown wide open. Investigative journalist Seymour Hersh (who made his career by recording another major abuse by the U.S. military) went deep into Abu Ghraib to uncover just how far up the chain of command the abuses went. Hersh revealed that the scandal wasn't an isolated incident (as the Army wanted to portray), but an example of an interrogation program ("Copper Green") that was an official and systemic use of torture. From Hersh: As the international furor grew, senior military officers, and President Bush, insisted that the actions of a few did not reflect the conduct of the military as a whole. Taguba’s report, however, amounts to an unsparing study of collective wrongdoing and the failure of Army leadership at the highest levels. The picture he draws of Abu Ghraib is one in which Army regulations and the Geneva conventions were routinely violated, and in which much of the day-to-day management of the prisoners was abdicated to Army military-intelligence units and civilian contract employees. Interrogating prisoners and getting intelligence, including by intimidation and torture, was the priority. AP Photo/Jean-Marc BoujuTutsi survivors huddle together, Friday, July 1, 1994, to keep warm in Kisesero, 40 miles southwest of Kigali. Though many in the international community knew about the devastation wrought by the Hutus on the Tutsis in Rwanda, New Yorker journalist Philip Gourevitch brought the tragedy into full focus. A year after the Rwandan genocide ended, Gourevitch began traveling to Rwanda for months at a time to try to understand the genocide. He eventually filed eight lengthy articles that covered the story from nearly every angle — Tutsi survivors, imprisoned Hutu killers, the ruling Rwandan Patriotic Front, and Major General Paul Kagame, who later became president. Though Gourevitch has more recently been criticized for his supposedly easy treatment of Kagame, his early dispatches are incredibly revealing stories about how a country begins to heal after a genocide. From the first dispatch: As I traveled around the country, collecting accounts of the killing, it almost seemed as if, with the machete, the nail-studded club, a few well-placed grenades, and a few bursts of automatic-rifle fire, the quiet orders of Hutu Power had made the neutron bomb obsolete. Then I came across a man in a market butchering a cow with a machete, and I saw that it was hard work. His big, precise strokes made a sharp hacking noise, and it took many hacks—two, three, four, five hard hacks—to chop through the cow’s leg. How many hacks to dismember a person? The GuardianThe New Yorker's best-known story form is perhaps the profile. While there are certainly any number of excellent pieces to choose from, New Yorker editor David Remnick's 1998 profile of a middle-aged Muhammad Ali may be his most memorable. Riddled with Parkinson's, the older Ali tries to make sense of his early years to figure out how "a gangly kid from segregated Louisville willed himself to become one of the great original improvisers in American History." From Remnick: Ali still walked well. He was still powerful in the arms and across the chest; it was obvious, just from shaking his hand, that he still possessed a knockout punch. For him, the special torture was speech and expression, as if the disease had intentionally struck first at what had once please him —and had pleased (or annoyed) the world — most. He hated the effort that speech now cost him. MSGT SCOTT REEDJane Mayer's 2009 expose of the CIA's increasing use of drones to kill terrorist suspects in Pakistan revealed that while many in the American public were aware of the drones, few understood that there are two drone programs. The first is a conventional U.S. military program. The second is a clandestine C.I.A.-run targeted-killing program that represents an unprecedented expansion of force in sovereign nations like Pakistan, Yemen, and Libya. Mayer's account revealed how the drone program has become a "radically new and geographically unbounded use of state-sanctioned lethal force," that ultimately signals an endless state of war. From Mayer: At first, some intelligence experts were uneasy about drone attacks. In 2002, Jeffrey Smith, a former C.I.A. general counsel, told Seymour M. Hersh, for an article in this magazine, “If they’re dead, they’re not talking to you, and you create more martyrs.” And, in an interview with the Washington Post, Smith said that ongoing drone attacks could “suggest that it’s acceptable behavior to assassinate people. . . . Assassination as a norm of international conduct exposes American leaders and Americans overseas.” Seven years later, there is no longer any doubt that targeted killing has become official U.S. policy. “The things we were complaining about from Israel a few years ago we now embrace,” Solis says. Now, he notes, nobody in the government calls it assassination. AP PhotoIn November 1957, The New Yorker presented a profile that featured one of the most interesting pairings in American media. Legendary writer Truman Capote was contracted to interview actor Marlon Brando, both of whom were just entering their respective primes. The result is a candid portrait that many consider to be a textbook example of how to reveal the inner life of a notoriously guarded figure. The voice went on, as though speaking to hear itself, an effect Brando’s speech often has, for, like many persons who are intensely self-absorbed, he is something of a monologuist—a fact that he recognizes and for which he offers his own explanation. “People around me never say anything,” he says. “They just seem to want to hear what I have to say. That’s why I do all the talking.” FREE AppDownload
Happiness is not equally distributed across the United States. A recent National Bureau of Economic Research working paper by Harvard economics professor Edward Glaeser, University of British Columbia economics professor Joshua Gottlieb, and Harvard graduate student Oren Ziv tracks how people's self-perceived happiness varies among American cities. The researchers used data from the CDC's Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System, an extensive survey coordinated by the CDC that tracks health behaviors and risk factors. One of the questions on the survey asks respondents how satisfied they are with their lives, with the four options of "very dissatisfied", "unsatisfied", "satisfied", and "very satisfied". This survey data is frequently viewed as an approximate measure of self-reported well being, or how happy people feel about their lives. The paper focuses on differences in respondents' self-reported life satisfaction among cities. Using a statistical model controlling for various individual demographic characteristics, like age, gender, race, education, marital status, and parenthood, the authors were able to estimate the impact that location has on respondents' happiness. The authors found that, after controlling for all the demographic variables, there was still a fairly strong amount of variability between cities. The map shows the variation in a region's effect on the self-reported well being scores of the residents of that region. Blue and green regions have a positive effect on self-reported happiness, yellow and red regions a negative effect: Glaeser et. al., July 2014 The authors note that big cities like New York and the Midwest are much less happy than other regions. The paper also explores possible reasons for the variation across cities. Interestingly, the authors found strong relationships between happiness and population growth over the second half of the twentieth century: cities with declining populations or slow growth were less happy than cities with higher levels of population growth. Further, they found that this effect was stronger for cities on the lower end of the population change scale: it's not the case that faster growing cities are exceptionally happy so much as it is the case that declining cities are exceptionally sad. Business Insider first saw mention of this report in the Daily Mail, and the full paper is available from the National Bureau of Economic Research.
SocionomistWinston Churchill once said that Russia "is a riddle wrapped in a mystery inside an enigma." But not everyone is so baffled by the world's biggest country. The Socionomics Institute released a two-part study that examines Russia's past in order to foreshadow to Russia's future.  In the first part of the study, they examined Russia by assessing historical social events in a global context using a lognormal, inflation-adjusted U.S. stock market index from 1859 to 1999. The reason the institute chose to use stock market data is because it "provides an objective measure of the relative optimism and pessimism of investors, so they serve as [their] primary indicator of social mood." Because the Russian Trading System Index (RTSI) was only instituted in 1995, the Socionomic Institute uses the U.S. stock market data as a substitute. Looking at the chart above, you can see that there were socio-political crises in Russia following drops in the U.S. stock market — meaning that stocks are a leading indicator of socio-political crises. Examples include the 1901-1902 peasant revolts and Stalin's collectivization efforts and great purges. SocionomistThe second part of this study uses the historical data from the first part in order to assess and predict current events. They charted data of the RTSI from its inception to 2007, and showed that between 1998 and 2007, the RTSI has seen a "sixty-fold increase."  The Socionomic Institute subsequently suggests that the "Elliott wave count in the RTSI shows that a clear five-wave advance beginning in 1999 is near completion." In other words, in 2007 the RTSI was on the precipice of its "biggest bear market" since 1999. The report adds that "such a decline could produce financial and social events of a character comparable to those seen during comparable declines in the past. Viewed in the context of Russian history, this outlook has serious geostrategic implications." Within one year of this research, in 2008, Russian stocks had collapsed over 70% and Putin invaded Georgia. Additionally, Alan Hall of the Socionomics Institute writes that several months ago the main Ukrainian stock market index was "down nearly 75% over the past three years." Today, it is still "down around 60% of its 2011 high." Consequently, the institute suggests that the "Russia-Ukraine conflict makes sense in the context of their research" because this socio-political crisis is following major drops in the stock markets of both countries. Hall foreshadows that "[they] see these developments in the Ukraine not as an outlier, but as a preview of larger trends ahead for Europe." FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsA knocked out Israeli M60 tank amongst the debris of other armor after an Israeli counterattack in the Sinai during the Yom Kippur War.Growing geopolitical risk is on everyone’s mind right now, but in today’s Outside the Box, Michael Cembalest of J.P. Morgan Asset Management leads off with a helpful reminder: the only time since WWII that a violent conflict has had a medium-term negative effect on markets was in 1973, when the Israeli-Arab war led to a Saudi oil embargo against the US and a quadrupling of oil prices. And he backs up that assertion with an interesting table of facts labeled “War zone countries as a percentage of total world… [population, oil production, GDP, etc.].” Having gotten that worry out of the way, he takes on the dire warnings that have recently been issued by the BIS, the IMF, and even the Fed, about a disconnect between market enthusiasm and the undertow of global economic developments. (He gives this section the cute title “Prophet warnings.”) Let’s look, he says, at actual measures of profits and how markets are valuing them; and then he goes on to give us a “glass half-full” take on prospects for the US economy for the remainder of the year. He throws in some caveats and cautions, but Cembalest thinks we could finally see another 3% growth quarter this year, which could create room for further profit increases. There are good sections here on Europe and emerging markets here, too. Cembalest gives us a true Outside the Box, with a more optimistic view than some of our other recent guests have had. But that’s the point of OTB, is it not, to think about what might be on the other side of the walls of the box we find ourselves in? I have shared his work before and find it well thought out. He is one of the true bright lights in the major investment bank research world. That’s my take, at least. [Editors Note: Mr. Mauldin's introduction was edited for length.] Michael Cembalest, J.P. Morgan Asset Management Eye on the Market, July 21, 2014 You can be forgiven for thinking that the world is a pretty terrible place right now: the downing of a Malaysian jetliner in eastern Ukraine and escalating sanctions against Russia, the Israeli invasion of Gaza, renewed fighting in Libya, civil wars in Syria, Afghanistan, Iraq and Somalia, Islamist insurgencies in Nigeria and Mali, ongoing post-election chaos in Kenya, violent conflicts in Pakistan, Sudan and Yemen, assorted mayhem in central Africa, and the situation in North Korea, described in a 2014 United Nations Human Rights report as having no parallel in the contemporary world. Only in Colombia does it look like a multi- decade conflict is finally staggering to its end. For investors, strange as it might seem, such conflicts are not affecting the world’s largest equity markets very much. Perhaps this reflects the small footprint of war zone countries within the global capital markets and global economy, other than through oil production. The limited market impact of geopolitics is nothing new. This is a broad generalization, but since 1950, with the exception of the Israeli-Arab war of 1973 (which led to a Saudi oil embargo against the US and a quadrupling of oil prices), military confrontations did not have a lasting medium-term impact on US equity markets. In the charts below, we look at US equities before and after the inception of each conflict in three different eras since 1950. The business cycle has been an overwhelmingly more important factor for investors to follow than war, which is why we spend so much more time on the former (and which is covered in the latter half of this note). As for the war-zone countries of today, one can only pray that things will eventually improve. Seventy years ago as the invasion of Normandy began, Europe was mired in the most lethal war in human history; the notion of a better day arising out of misery is not outside the realm of possibility. Soviet invasions of Hungary and Czechoslovakia did not lead to a severe market reaction, nor did the outbreak of the Korean War or the Arab-Israeli Six-Day War. We did not include the US-Vietnam war, since it’s hard to pinpoint when it began. One could argue that Vietnam-era deficit spending eventually led to rising inflation (from 3% in 1967 to 5% in 1970), a rise in the Fed Funds rate from 5% in 1968 to 9% in 1969, and a US equity market decline in 1969-1970 (this decline shows up at the tail end of the S&amp;P series showing the impact of the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia).  The Arab-Israeli war of 1973 led to an oil embargo and an energy crisis in the US, all of which contributed to inflation, a severe recession and a sharp equity market decline. Pre-existing wage and price controls made the situation worse, but the war/embargo played a large role. Separately, markets were not adversely affected by the Falklands War, martial law in Poland, the Soviet war in Afghanistan, or US invasions of Grenada or Panama. The market decline in 1981 was more closely related to a double-dip US recession and the anti-inflation policies of the Volcker Fed.  Equity market reactions to US invasions of Kuwait and Iraq, and the Serbian invasion of Kosovo, were mild. There was a sharp market decline after the September 11th attacks, but it reversed within weeks. The subsequent market decline in 2002 was arguably more about the continued unraveling of the technology bust than about aftershocks from the Sept 11th attacks and Afghan War. As for North Korea, in a Nov 2010 EoTM we outlined how after North Korean missile launches, naval clashes and nuclear tests, South Korean equities typically recover within a few weeks.  Prophet warnings. So far, the year is turning out more or less as we expected in January: almost everything has risen in single digits (US, European and Emerging Markets stocks, fixed-rate and inflation linked government bonds, high grade and high yield corporate bonds, and commodities). What made last week notable: concerns from the Fed and the Bank for International Settlements (a global central banking organization) regarding market valuations. The BIS hit investors with a 2-by-4, stating that “it is hard to avoid the sense of a puzzling disconnect between the market’s buoyancy and underlying economic developments globally”. The Fed also weighed in, referring to “substantially stretched valuations” of biotech and internet stocks in its Monetary Policy Report submitted to Congress. What should one make of these prophet warnings? Let’s put aside the irony of Central Banks expressing concern about whether their policies are contributing to aggressive risk-taking. They know they do, and relied on such an outcome when crafting monetary policy post-2008. Instead, let’s look at measures of profits and how markets are valuing them.           The first chart shows how P/E multiples have risen in recent months, including in the Emerging Markets. The second chart shows valuations on internet and biotech stocks referred to in the Fed’s Congressional submission. The third chart shows forward and median multiples, an important complement to traditional market-cap based multiples.    Are these valuations too high? Triangulating the various measures, US valuations are close to their peaks of prior mid-cycle periods (ignoring the collective lapse of judgment during the dot-com era). We see the same general pattern in small cap. On internet and biotech, valuations have begun to creep up again after February’s correction, and I would agree that investors are paying a LOT of money for the presumption that internet/biotech revenue growth is “secular” and less explicitly linked to overall economic growth. As a result, we believe earnings growth is needed to drive equity markets higher from here. On this point, we see the glass half-full, at least in the US. After a poor Q1 and a partial rebound in Q2, US data are improving such that we expect to see the elusive 3% growth quarter this year (only 6 of 20 quarters since Q2 2009 have exceeded 3%). With new orders rising and inventories down, the stage is set for an improvement. Other confirming data: vehicle sales, broad-based employment gains, hours worked, manufacturing surveys, homebuilder surveys, a rise in consumer credit, capital spending, etc. If we get a growth rebound, the profits impact could be meaningful. The second chart shows base and incremental profit margins. Incremental margins measure the degree to which additional top-line sales contribute to profits. After mediocre profits growth of 5%-7% in 2012/2013, we could see faster profits growth later this year. With 83 companies reporting so far, Q2 S&amp;P 500 earnings are up 9% vs. 2013.   Accelerated monetary tightening could derail interest-rate sensitive sectors of the economy, so we’re watching the Fed along with everybody else. Perhaps it’s a reflection of today's circumstances, but like Bernanke before her, Yellen appears to see the late 1930s as a huge policy fiasco: when premature monetary and fiscal tightening threw the US back into recession. That’s what Yellen's testimony last week brings to mind: she gave a cautious outlook, cited "mixed signals" and previous "false dawns", and downplayed the decline in unemployment and recent rise in inflation. In other words, she’s prepared to wait until the US expansion is indisputably in place before tightening. An important sub-plot for the Fed: where are all the discouraged workers? For Fed policy to remain easy, as the economy improves, the pace of unemployment declines will have to slow and wage inflation will have to remain in check. The Fed believes discouraged workers will re-enter the labor force in large numbers, holding down wage inflation. Fed skeptics point out that so far, labor participation rates have not risen, creating the risk of inflation sooner than the Fed thinks. It’s all about the “others” in the chart, since disabled and retired persons rarely return to work. If “others” come back, it would show that there hasn’t been a structural decline in the pool of available workers. The Fed believes they will eventually return, and so do we.  Germany and France are slowing; not catastrophically, but by more than markets were expecting. This has contributed to a decline in European earnings expectations for the year. As shown on page 2, Europe was priced for a return to normalcy, and with inflation across most of the Eurozone converging to 1%, things are decidedly not that normal. Markets are not priced for any negative surprises, which is why an issue with a single Portuguese bank contributed to a sharp decline in banks stocks across the entire region.   The surprise of the year, if there is one, is how emerging markets equities have rebounded. As we wrote in March 2014, the history of EM equities shows that after substantial currency declines, industrial activity often stabilizes. Around that same time, we often see equity markets stabilize as well, even before visible improvements in growth, inflation and exports. This pattern appears to be playing itself again: the 4 EM Big Debtor countries (Brazil, India, Indonesia and Turkey) have experienced equity market rallies of 20%+ despite modest improvement in economic data (actually, things are still getting worse in Brazil and Turkey).   There’s also some good news on the EM policy front. In Mexico, it appears that the oil and natural gas sector is being opened up after a 25% decline in oil production since 2004. This would effectively end the 75-year monopoly that Pemex has over oil production. Other energy–related positives: Mexico has shifted the bulk of its electricity reliance from oil to cheaper natural gas over the last decade, giving it low electricity costs along with its competitive labor costs. Factoring in new energy investment, new telecommunications and media projects opened to foreign investment and support from both private and public credit, we can envision a 2% boost to Mexico’s GDP growth rate in the years ahead. This can not come soon enough for Mexico: casualties in its drug war rival some of the war zone countries on page 1. Now for the challenges. Brazil has bigger problems right now than its mauling at the World Cup. With goods exports, manufacturing and industrial confidence slowing and wage/price inflation rising, Brazil is about to experience a modest bout of stagflation. Markets don’t appear to care (yet).   As for China, growth has stabilized (7%-8% in Q2) but we should be under no illusion as to why: credit growth is rising again. China ranks at the top of list of countries in terms of corporate debt/GDP. I don’t know what the breaking point is, but we’re a long way from pre-crisis China when GDP growth was organically driven and less reliant on expansion of household and corporate debt1. There’s some good news regarding the composition of growth: investment is slowing in manufacturing and real estate, and increasing in infrastructure; and while capital goods imports are flat, consumer goods imports are rising, suggesting a modest transition to more consumer-led growth. But for investors, the debt overhang of state-owned enterprises and its impact on the economy is the dominant story to watch. That explains why Chinese equity valuations are among the lowest of EM countries (only Russia is lower; for more on its re- militarization, economy and natural gas relations with Europe, see “Eye on the Russians”, April 29, 2014).   On a global basis, demand and inventory trends suggest a pick-up in economic activity in the second half of the year. If so, our high single digit forecast for 2014 equity market returns should be able to withstand the onset of (eventually) tighter monetary policy in the US. The ongoing M&amp;A boom probably won’t hurt either. Like Outside the Box?Sign up today and get each new issue delivered free to your inbox. It's your opportunity to get the news John Mauldin thinks matters most to your finances. Important Disclosures This article originally appeared at Outside The Box.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersSecurity guards stand inside the Husi Food factory in ShanghaiSHANGHAI (Reuters) - Regulators in Shanghai have found that scandal-hit China-based food supplier forged production dates on some of its products and sold them after their expiry, the official Xinhua news agency reported on Saturday. Shanghai Husi Food, which is owned by Illinois-based OSI Group, is at the center of China's latest food scandal, which has spread to Hong Kong and Japan, over allegations it mixed expired meat with fresh meat. Police have detained five people as part of their investigation. Shanghai Municipal Food and Drug Administration has found that Shanghai Husi forged the production dates on smoked beef patties produced in May 2013 and sold them as being made in January 2014, Xinhua said. The processed meat had a shelf life of nine months, it added. Xinhua said there were 4,396 batches with forged dates, of which 3,030 had been sold. Officials at Shanghai Husi and OSI in China could not be reached for comment. OSI has apologized to its Chinese consumers, calling what happened at the Shanghai plant "completely unacceptable". The scandal, which has dragged in global food chains including McDonald's Corp, KFC-parent Yum Brands Inc and Starbucks Corp, was prompted by a local TV report on Sunday which showed staff at Shanghai Husi using long-expired meat and picking up food from the floor to add back to the mix. It also alleged the firm of forging production dates. Reuters reported on Friday that Shanghai Husi won a court case earlier this year against a former quality control officer whose claims included that he was made to forge meat production dates. The former worker told a court last year he was unwilling to illegally forge dates at the plant, adding that he repeatedly urged his employer to change a practice which he said violated food safety laws and hurt consumer interests, according to court documents seen by Reuters. He said Shanghai Husi ignored his pleas. The judge dismissed the allegation due to lack of evidence. So far, there have been no reports of consumers falling sick in the latest food scare. Food safety is one of the top issues for Chinese consumers after a scandal in 2008 where dairy products tainted with the industrial chemical melamine led to the deaths of six infants and made many thousands sick.   (Reporting by Kazunori Takada; Editing by Richard Borsuk) FREE AppDownload
Nigeria could be the next geopolitical hotspot. So says Emad Mostaque, a strategist who contributed to the most recent iteration of Business Insider's Most Important Charts In The World.  Mostaque notes that while Boko Haram, which has made international headlines this year for wreaking havoc in Nigeria, has focused its attention in the northern part of the country, which is Africa's most populous.  Ahead of next February's elections, however, Mostaque believes it is possible for Boko Haram to spread its attacks to the southern part of the country, potentially disrupting 2 million barrels of oil per day currently expected by the market. Business Insider FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersAmazon CEO Jeff Bezos discusses his company's new Fire smartphone in Seattle, WashingtonSAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Amazon.com Inc's message to investors has always been clear: trust in founder and CEO Jeff Bezos. But after more than a year of mostly disappointing quarterly results, that faith is being tested. Some on Wall Street wonder if Amazon may have bitten off more than it can chew. After an unusually busy first half of the year that saw the online retailer spend on developing everything from mobile phones and Hollywood-style production to grocery deliveries, investors are ready to see it curtail its ambitions and start delivering sustainable profits. Or at least offer evidence that Bezos' ever-increasing investments are going to soon generate appealing returns for its main online retailing business. "It does get frustrating when they continue to spend quarter after quarter and they don't let the revenue flow through," said Michael Scanlon, who manages $3.5 billion at Manulife Asset Management and holds shares of Amazon. "I'm definitely ready for profits." Others argue that easing off on the throttle now may thwart its goal of becoming the Wal-Mart of online retail. That is particularly the case as China's Alibaba - which handles more ecommerce than Amazon and eBay Inc combined - slowly develops a U.S. consumer presence and prepares for an initial public offering in the U.S.   BIG SELLING POINT Bezos insists on taking the long view. In his letter to shareholders last year, he responded to criticism about spending by saying investing in a "just-in-time fashion would be too clever by half." Its increasing share of the retail dollar is still a big selling point for investors.    "You have to take a long-term perspective and you have to buy in that you're going to see solid topline growth," said Needham &amp; Co analyst Kerry Rice. But that market share grab comes at a price a price that was highlighted in its second-quarter results issued on Thursday. Amazon reported its largest quarterly loss since 2012 as operating expenses rose 24 percent, led by a 40 percent surge in spending on technology and content. Its shares fell 9.6 percent on Friday, wiping out about $16 billion of value. The company has now fallen short of Wall Street's earnings expectations in seven of the past nine quarters. Perhaps worse, it predicted an operating loss of up to $810 million for the current third quarter, the biggest quarter-on-quarter reversal in profitability since 2003, B. Riley analysts estimated. Included is $410 million in stock-based compensation in the third quarter, but excluded are "acquisitions, investments, restructurings." Investors say they are concerned about not only Amazon spending every dollar that comes in the door but also the lack of disclosure about where it is being spent. "Most companies with the kind of gross revenue Amazon has are not posting these kind of losses," said Michael Yoshikami, CEO of Destination Wealth Management, which sold its stake in Amazon last year. "You've got to give more information to justify faith in the name." But Amazon has always kept its data close, even basic details such as how many Kindle tablets it has sold or the precise number of subscribers to its Amazon Prime free shipping and media service, citing competitive reasons. Scanlon said that greater disclosure "would help you do things like measure return on investments. You can start to get your arms around more what the duration of the spending will be."   TOUGH TO SWALLOW Two areas that have proven hard for some to swallow are a panoply of new devices based on a heavily modified and less-established version of Google's Android, and Amazon's move into program production. This week, Amazon launched the $649 Fire Phone, but it failed to impress reviewers. The phone joins a Fire streaming box and a line of tablets and e-readers - most sold at prices close to their cost to produce and get to market - in its drive to galvanize sales of digital books and media. Amazon's foray into TV - from "Alpha House" starring John Goodman to just-announced kids show "Annedroids" - has never garnered Netflix-like acclaim. Yet it intends to devote more than $100 million to original video content this quarter. "There's a lot of stuff they're doing that's questionable," said S&amp;P Capital IQ analyst Tuna Amobi, who has a "sell" rating on Amazon, referring in particular to Amazon's content and hardware endeavors. Investors might be soothed if Amazon did a share buyback, Scanlon said, adding it was unlikely. While Amazon has more than $5 billion of cash and cash equivalents as of June, analysts say there's little percentage in Amazon buying its own shares, given their lofty valuation even after a slump this year. Some assessments tag Amazon's shares with a highly-overvalued warning sign. According to Thomson Reuters StarMine, Amazon’s shares carry an intrinsic worth of $36.37 – or about a tenth of its current price – making the stock one of the most overvalued names in its universe of more than 4,000 U.S. companies. StarMine calculates its intrinsic value figure using growth expectations for the coming decade, and it suggests that at its current price, investors are discounting a much faster growth rate than Amazon could hope to achieve in coming years.   B. Riley, which downgraded Amazon to neutral from buy on Friday, argued it was hard to justify its valuation given "compromised cash flows." "There's nothing wrong with spending to diversify your business, but it has to be a focused manner as opposed to throwing spaghetti on the wall and seeing what sticks," Amobi said. "They're a public company, they need some sensitivity" to shareholders.   (Additional reporting by Ross Kerber in Boston and David Gaffen in New York, editing by Edwin Chan and Martin Howell) FREE AppDownload
Courtesy of Apple/Paul SakumaTORONTO (Reuters) - IBM Corp's recent move to partner with Apple Inc to sell iPhones and iPads loaded with corporate applications has excited investors in both companies, but two rivals say they are unperturbed for now. Top executives at Dell and BlackBerry Ltd scoffed at the threat posed by the alliance this week, arguing the tie-up is unlikely to derail the efforts of their own companies to re-invent themselves. "I do not think that we take the Apple-IBM tie-up terribly seriously. I think it just made a good press release," John Swainson, who heads Dell's global software business, said in an interview with Reuters in Toronto on Thursday. PC maker Dell and smartphone maker BlackBerry are in the midst of reshaping their companies around software and services, as the needs of their big corporate clients morph. Swainson, who spent over two decades in senior roles at IBM, said, "I have some trouble understanding how IBM reps are going to really help Apple very much in terms of introducing devices into their accounts. I mean candidly, they weren't very good at doing it when it was IBM-logoed products, so I do not get how introducing Apple-logoed stuff is going to be much better." While conceding that Apple products hold more allure, Swainson said they lack the depth of security features that many large business clients like banks covet. IBM and Apple could not immediately be reached for comment. BlackBerry Chief Executive John Chen similarly downplayed the threat of the alliance in an interview with the Financial Times on Thursday, likening the tie-up to when "two elephants start dancing."   NO COMMENT ON POSSIBLE ALLIANCE Dell and BlackBerry declined to discuss whether they would consider teaming up, but some analysts, bankers and others have argued in the past that a partnership between the two underdogs potentially made sense. Texas-based Dell has a huge sales team, vast network of business clients and is focused on growing its security and device management capabilities, long strong suits for BlackBerry. The Canadian company is building on its heritage by adding capabilities to manage not just BlackBerry, but iOS-, Android- and Windows-based devices on its infrastructure. "Dell's always been in a partnership-driven model. As Dell has evolved it has focused on some pieces of the equation, but not all," said Swainson, adding that the need to broaden partnerships is growing, but declining comment on a potential tie-up with BlackBerry. Chen told the Financial Times that BlackBerry was in early discussions with some companies about working together in parts of the enterprise market, but did not name them. Whether a BlackBerry-Dell partnership will materialize is unclear for now. Initial speculation about a tie-up between the two began a year ago, when both players were exploring buyouts. At the time, one source told Reuters that BlackBerry had held talks with private equity firm Silver Lake Partners about collaboration in enterprise computing. Silver Lake, along with Dell's founder, Michael Dell, were at the time in the midst of taking Dell private. At the time, the source said if the buyout succeeded, one option was a collaboration with BlackBerry in mobile computing. Both Swainson and Chen were senior advisors with Silver Lake before moving into their roles with Dell and BlackBerry. BlackBerry, under the leadership of Chen, has been busy forging alliances and earlier this week announced it was going to allow third-parties to host its device management services.   (Editing by Jeffrey Hodgson and Paul Simao) FREE AppDownload
MarathonU.S. oil production remains at its highest level since the mid-80s, and it's all thanks to incredible developments in hydraulic fracturing. Marathon Oil has a great animation on the basics of hydraulic fracturing, or "fracking."  We found it thanks to Mark Perry's blog. Intended for novices, it explains how horizontal drilling works and explains the roles of water and sand. Not surprisingly, the video doesn't spend much time on the controversies surrounding the environmental risks.  That discussion is for another time. For now, check out these key points from the animation that will help any novice speak more intelligently about fracking. Note: Ben Duronio, who no longer works at Business Insider, contributed to an earlier version of this. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Phil McCarten Facebook stock blasted to new highs this week after blow-out earnings with astounding user growth and vast revenue opportunities ahead. Venture capitalist Marc Andreessen, who was an early Facebook investor and currently sits on the company board, is taking the opportunity to call out people who have doubted the company over the years. Tweet storms by @pmarca are always fun and have included commentary on how to kill a startup and more. This one is ongoing: Disclosure: Marc Andreessen is an investor in Business Insider. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Tyrone SiuA 21-foot tall model of Optimus Prime is displayed at the world premiere of "Transformers: Age of Extinction" in Hong Kong.The Chinese box office grew by an astounding 27% to $3.6 billion in 2013, according to the Motion Picture Association of America. To put that number in comparison, China's $900 million dollars box office growth was more than the total size of all but eight international box offices. China brought in $1.2 billion more than second place Japan and $1.9 billion more than the third place United Kingdom. The U.S./Canada market remained the largest at $10.9 billion, up 1% from 2012. Globally, box office revenue increased 4%. Although China's box office won't soon overtake the U.S., it's growing fast. In 2012, the Chinese box office grew at an even-more-impressive 36% and overtook Japan as the world's largest international market. As recently as 2008, the Chinese box office pulled in only $700 million. Hollywood is taking notice of China's astounding rise, as studios cast Chinese stars in major movies, fill up with Chinese product placement, and remove potentially offensive elements such as having a Chinese character play the villain. Beyond these examples, studios will increasingly consider the basic question of what will do well in China, as well as in other foreign markets. The recently released "Transformers 4," which included Chinese actors and was partly filmed at Chinese locations, was the first major American blockbuster to perform better in China than it did domestically, according to Box Office Mojo — potentially a watershed moment. As pointed out by the FT, that movie reaches new extremes for Hollywood in terms of Chinese product placement and pro-China themes. Hollywood has little leverage in China, however, as studios have been forced to accept less favorable business terms. As reported by The Wrap, studios receive around only 23% of ticket sales in China compared to around 50% in the U.S., and in some cases they have had trouble collecting earnings, Here are the top 20 international box office markets: Motion Picture Association of America The top five remained the same as in 2012, while Germany dropped from sixth to eighth and Brazil dropped from 10th to 11th, as South Korea, Russia, and Mexico moved up. Here are the top 10 from 2012:  The Asia Pacific region surpassed the box office region encompassing Europe, the Middle East, and Africa for the first time this year to become the top region in the world, bringing in even more money than the U.S./Canada box office. Asia Pacific growth was fueled largely by China, as it became the first international market to surpass $3 billion in revenue. Latin American growth was mainly due to large increases in both the Mexican and Argentinian box offices, while the nation that led the Europe, Middle East, and Africa region in growth was Russia. Here is how the international box offices compare by region:   FREE AppDownload
