About a year ago, while traveling, my bank turned off my credit card without telling me, as an anti-fraud measure. Of course, this happened right as I was trying to make a purchase. Admittedly, the bank was doing something most do: trying to stay one step ahead of card thieves. But what if there were a way to pair your card with your smartphone — implementing what is essentially two-factor authorization to purchases — to make sure it's always you handing the card over at a store? That's just one of the many features in a new app created by OnDot, a San Jose, California-based startup that's going to revolutionize the way we use the credit card. With OnDot's CardControl, users can turn a card on or off with one swipe, restrict purchases to certain geographical locations, get alerts whenever a transaction is made, view card history, and even hand off a card to a family member and restrict purchases to certain items. For instance, a parent could give a card to a son or daughter, set a spending limit of $20, and restrict them to purchasing items only found at grocery stores. Pretty incredible, right? Here's the best part: It can work with the cards you already have in your wallet. "Our system applies to every card," said Vaduvur Bharghavan, co-founder and chief executive officer of OnDot Systems. OnDot has been in "stealth-mode" for three years, fundraising, testing its product and developing business relationships. In that time, it's raised $18 million and perfected its product, in addition to partnering with four major credit card processors and 10,000 banks and credit unions across the U.S. OnDotEssentially, if a bank isn't already working with OnDot, all they would need to do is flip a switch and turn on the technology and customers can use CardControl either as a standalone app, or as an addition to a bank's existing mobile platform. There are so many possible uses for the app, it's hard to choose the best one: While there are plenty of features for consumers, banks partnered with OnDot have seen remarkable benefits as well. Lone Star National Bank saw fraud decrease dramatically, while consumers made more transactions and spent more money overall. Bharghavan says the reason is due to consumers having more trust in the OnDot-enabled card, pushing that one to "top-of-the-wallet" status. "We were able to decrease our fraud losses from $450,000 in 2012 to $180,000 in 2013, a reduction of over 60%," David Penoli, LSNB’s chief operating officer, said in a statement. "This has been a big breakthrough, and justifies the solution on its own." The company has 70 employees — many based in India — and is led by Bharghaven, who previously founded Meru Networks, a wireless networking company which had its IPO on the NASDAQ in March 2010. OnDot wouldn't provide Business Insider with specific revenue numbers, but Bharghaven did say the company makes its money through recurring fees charged to banks based on active users.  FREE AppDownload
Housing sales have stalled but the US economy is rebounding enough from the winter chill to keep the Federal Reserve's stimulus taper on track when policy makers meet next week. All signs from members of the Federal Open Market Committee, including Fed chief Janet Yellen, suggest they will again cut back their bond-buying program in the Tuesday-Wednesday monetary policy gathering. That will keep in place their march toward policy normalization, the exit from extraordinary measures launched to prop up the economy during the 2008 crisis. The taper, begun in December, has brought the total monthly bond purchases down from $85 billion to a current $55 billion. The FOMC will likely cut another $10 billion from that. Yellen has said the plan is to wind down the program -- which has sought to hold down long-term interest rates to encourage investment and hiring -- by late this year, as the economy has enough momentum to push ahead on its own. "We anticipate a fairly uneventful Fed meeting," IHS Global Insight economists said in a client note. "The committee will likely cut the monthly pace of bond purchases from $55 billion to $45 billion... (but) not make any further changes to interest rates or its forward guidance," they said. "The outlook statement on the economy should be monitored, but so far the Fed's expectation that first quarter weakness was weather-related and temporary appears to be correct." The downturn that began in December, with output and hiring both much slower, left many analysts worried that the economy had shifted into low gear for fundamental reasons, not just because of a series of harsh storms that battered the eastern half of the United States. IHS says the economy probably grew at an annual rate of only 0.7 percent in the January-March quarter, down from 2.6 percent the previous quarter. - Data paints mixed picture - Coming out of the period, the data remains mixed. Growth in home sales, an important part of the economy's recovery, has stalled. Commerce Department data showed new home sales were down 13.3 percent in March from a year ago, while used home sales were down 7.5 percent year-on-year. That represents a greater-than-expected impact from last year's rise in mortgage rates, and possibly reflects that incomes have not risen much in the rebound from the crisis, even as home prices have, analysts say. But another key indicator, durable goods orders, showed strong growth for the second month running in March, gaining 2.6 percent month-on-month after 2.2 percent in February. The FOMC's own regional economic survey, the Beige Book released last week, painted a similar picture: a slowdown in housing but otherwise a pickup of economic activity overall. Yellen said in an April 16 speech to the Economic Club of New York that the central bank did not view the winter downturn as representing any material change in growth. "The unusually harsh winter weather in much of the nation has complicated this judgment, but my FOMC colleagues and I generally believe that a significant part of the recent softness was weather-related," she said. For that reason, she reiterated, the Fed will keep cutting back its bond-buying program. But with no inflationary pressure evident, she added, the Fed also has no intention of increasing its benchmark federal funds interest rate from the current low 0-0.25 percent level anytime soon. She said that, with considerable slack in the labor market and unemployment still high at 6.7 percent, the rate needs to stay low to fuel investment and hiring. "My own view is that some portion of the decline in participation likely represents labor market slack," she said. The FOMC still sees a return to "normal" employment -- 5.6 percent or lower -- as "more than two years away." Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Some people believe that when you find the right person you just know. The rest of us could use a little help figuring out how to choose the right spouse. You can actually optimize your chances of marrying the best person using the solution to the famous Secretary Problem. This problem has many applications (including how to choose the best secretary), but this one is the most fun. Produced by Sara Silverstein and Sam Rega. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
During the 2012 presidential election, Republican nominee Mitt Romney regularly liked to joke that President Obama wanted the US economy to look "more like Europe". In the context of modern American politics, few insults are more stinging. To be European is to be somehow effeminate, irresolute and, perhaps worst of all, socialist. It's the opposite of the "rugged individualism" and "exceptional nature" of the uniquely American experiment in self-government. But, as a sobering New York Times article last week made clear, America could have a lot to learn by looking to Europe. According to the New York Times, the American middle class – the linchpin of the country's phenomenal postwar economic growth – can no longer call itself the richest in the world. "While the wealthiest Americans are outpacing many of their global peers," says the NYT, "across the lower- and middle-income tiers, citizens of other advanced countries have received considerably larger raises over the last three decades." America's poorest citizens lag behind their European counterparts; 35 years ago, the opposite was true. This was yet one more wake-up call about the reality of America's continuing economic malaise. Ask Americans if the country is on the right track – 60% say no. Satisfied with the way things are going in America – only 25% say yes. Still think you're a member of the middle class – only 44% feel so confident. Forty per cent self-identify as lower-class, a 15-point jump since 2008. Among young people, the numbers are even more depressing. Those who place themselves in the lowest tier have doubled in just the past six years. While a majority of Americans tenaciously continue to hold dear to the American Dream – that long-standing American ideal that if you work hard anything is possible – more and more people are reporting that the opportunity for social advancement feels increasingly out of reach for them and their children. Indeed, it is hard to think of a more disquieting trend in American society than the fact that those in their 20s and 30s are less likely to have a high school diploma than those between the ages of 55 and 64. All of this must seem counterintuitive to foreign audiences. The US swaggers along on the world stage with a certainty and sense of moral purpose that no other country can match. Blessed with practically limitless national resources, a dynamic and diverse population, a relatively stable political system and innovative technological capabilities that other nations can only dream of, how can so many Americans be falling behind – and how can the nation's leaders allow it to happen? The answer is disconcertingly simple: we chose this path. Granted, no one actively set out to attack the middle class in America. There wasn't some evil plan hatched behind closed doors to wreak socio-economic havoc. But the decline of the American middle class, the ostentatious wealth of the so-called 1% and the crushing economic anxiety of the growing number of poor Americans have happened in plain sight. It is the direct result of a political system that has for more than four decades abdicated its responsibilities – and tilted the economic scales toward the most affluent and well-connected in American society. The idea that government has an obligation to create jobs, grow the economy, construct a social safety net or even put the interests of the most vulnerable in society above the most successful has gone the way of transistor radios, fax machines and VCRs. Today, America is paying the price for that indifference to this slow-motion economic collapse. It wasn't always like this. Once, Americans lived in a country where it wasn't just the biggest boats that floated high on a rising economic tide. In the years after the Second World War, America was defined by an unprecedented period of economic prosperity. Jobs were plentiful and well-paying, with generous health and retirement benefits. New creature comforts, from refrigerators and washing machines to televisions and cars, were suddenly available. Americans became homeowners and eventually, if they were lucky, suburbanites. Perhaps most important, those at the bottom of the economic ladder shared in the bounty as much as those at the top. Life back then was never as idyllic as nostalgic portrayals of postwar America would suggest (this was particularly true if you were a minority or a woman). But it was also true that Americans enjoyed the type of economic security that current generations can only dream of. Part of the reason was that they had political leaders who recognised that the federal government could not just sit on the sidelines. From the emergency measures of the New Deal, which laid the foundation for the modern welfare state, to the vast ambitions of the Great Society, the government provided support for the aged, healthcare for the poor, job security for workers, good schools for the nation's young people and invested in science and infrastructure projects that created new economic opportunities. By the 70s, however, as the postwar economic boom began to deflate, so, too, did the idea that government had a role to play in stewarding the economy or protecting workers from the vicissitudes of the free market. Instead, as a conservative anti-government populism emerged out of the perceived "liberal" excesses of the 60s, a new political ethos came to the fore. It was one promoted by Republicans (if occasionally articulated and endorsed by Democrats). Government was no longer a friend to the working man – it was a malignant force transferring his hard-earned tax dollars to the poor and minorities. These attitudes weren't necessarily new. Americans have long flirted with strains of anti-centralism and fears of concentrated power. But out of this backlash would come toxic policy ideas that have defined post-60s US politics – lower taxes and even lower federal spending, less regulation and even less government intervention in the economy. Though pitched to the American people as a magic elixir for what ailed the US economy, they instead brought the economic disquiet we are seeing fully flower today. The impact of conservatism's anti-government backlash was significant. Unemployment benefits became less generous; same with food stamps, welfare payments and the minimum wage. Job protections were weakened as once strong support for unions and organised labour was replaced by increasing hostility from pro-business Republicans. When once a third of all private sector Americans were in unions, today the number is down to around 11%. College tuition fees went through the roof as support for public universities declined. This was happening at the same time that a university degree became an essential ticket for success in a competitive global economy. A lack of early-childhood education and underperforming schools, particularly for the poorest Americans, meant that unless you're in the top 10% of Americans chances are that when your child begins kindergarten, he or she is already one step behind. This educational inequality is reflective of a larger trend of growing income disparities across US society. So, as Americans saw their wages stagnate, their economic anxieties increase, their debt levels skyrocket, their retirement savings shrivel and their future prospects dim, the very rich got much, much richer. Yet, conservatism's most pernicious impact came not from what it accomplished. There was no rolling back of the welfare state or the Great Society. The revered conservative Republican saviour Ronald Reagan railed against big government, but as president he found himself unable to zero out even a single major spending programme. Far worse, however, were the sins of omission. Conservatism's most dubious legacy came in stopping progress dead in its tracks. There were no expanding childcare benefits or universal pre-kindergarten to deal with the influx of women in the workplace. Millions lacked health insurance coverage and yet Congress showed little inclination toward providing universal access to healthcare. New infrastructure programmes, such as high-speed rail or expanded broadband penetration, went nowhere. Public works programmes to create jobs weren't even on the table. When new social programmes were created, such as family and medical leave, they were pale substitutes of what the European middle class takes for granted. Instead, Congress busied itself with more tax breaks and subsidies for the richest 1% and hacked away at regulations that protected workers and the social safety net that kept them from falling into economic misery. Until the long overdue passage of Obamacare in 2010, the middle class consistently found itself on the short end of the stick. Certainly, some will quibble as to how much blame the federal government should receive for this economic downturn. Larger systemic forces, such as globalisation, technological change and the increasing specialisation of the US economy, which demanded more educated workers, played important roles as well. Still, even if one accepts that these factors were more responsible, where were Congress and the president in helping workers navigate these changes? Alas, they were probably out raising money from the 1% for the next election. It's small wonder that, according to a recent academic report, the world of politics is so "dominated by powerful business organisations and a small number of affluent Americans" that the US is on shaky ground even calling itself a democracy. As Americans have seen their economic fortunes decline, those most in a position to help them have shown far too little willingness to lend a hand, none more so than conservative Republicans. In the immortal words of Ralph Waldo Emerson, "conservatism makes no poetry, breathes no prayer, has no invention". Its success comes in standing in the path of reform and saying no. With the Republican party currently in charge of the House of Representatives (and unlikely to lose that control in this autumn's mid-term election) there is little reason, unfortunately, to believe that the nearly four-decade decline in the financial standing of the American people will right itself soon. In short, the "choice" that America made to pursue the path of decline will be with us for some time to come. Kind of makes looking to Europe seem like not such a bad idea. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
This article originally appeared at GQ.com. Check out GQ's How To Index for the best men's style, grooming, and lifestyle tips. If the art world feels like a cold, intimidating, and often very closed place—well, it kinda is. But it’s also a wonderful world to wade into, from the thrill of the hunt to the rush of discovery. And we're here to tell you that it’s not out of reach, no matter how small your budget. This could be your wall one day: GQ1. Eighteenth-century Peruvian painting gifted by his mother; 2. Helmut Newton print; 3. Ocean painting by his business partner, Ariel Ashe; 4. Karl Haendel drawing; 5. Painting from Dan Colen's Trash series; 6. Wax piece by Rashid Johnson.Architectural designer Reinaldo Leandro (pictured above) got in early on several rising artists before their prices went stratospheric. The lesson from Leandro's wall is the mix: Some of the work was a gift, other pieces were investments, and then there's stuff made by friends. The big secret about the art world is that there kinda is no art world. It's more about learning the landscape, honing your aesthetic and making a few connections. Cash flow, thankfully, is secondary. Whether you're looking to buy your first major work (we'll coach you through that next) or just tripping out on an artist's work on Tumblr, all it takes is participation. The best advice is "buy slowly, use wisely." GQ1. Take your time and do your homework. There are bargains out there, often found at charity auctions or from auction houses not located in N.Y.C. or L.A. 2. Don't just accept a dealer's price—check a database like artsalesindex.artinfo.com. See what similar works are going for. 3. Don't buy something because you think you'll flip it. Buy what you like—and buy to keep. Think of your collection as your estate. 4. Don't buy a poster even if it's a Warhol. If you do buy from an edition of prints, buy from a small edition and make sure it's signed. 5. Don't be too hip. It's hard to be on the upside of the curve unless you're an insider. Better to buy something that's gone a bit obscure, even out—think modern, not contemporary. (I remember when pulp art was cheap. Now I'm liking '70s color-field painters.) 1. Go to art fairs Pascal Spengemann, director of Marlborough Chelsea and Broome Street, explains: Fairs are packed with as much art as museums, so the layman can become an insider very quickly. You get to see a lot of work from a lot of different galleries all at once, and the dealers are eager to make sales. Dealers like an educated consumer, but if you're open to learning about the work, they're interested in expanding their clientele. Just look for someone with a badge on and don't be afraid to ask questions. How is something made? How old is the artist? How well-known? You can ask price right away, and it's common for a collector to ask for a 10 percent discount. Once you've found some galleries that feel like kindred spirits, you can follow up and visit them at their actual locations. 2. Browse art books Bill Powers, founder of Half Gallery, says: Think of an artbook collection as your fantasy art collection. I probably have a thousand at home, and it's a nice way to live with a body of work. There are three categories to know: There's the monograph, which is a history of an artist's professional work. There are catalogs for museums (pretty mainstream) and gallery shows (a little more rarefied). And then there are artists' books, which are those small passion projects—like a show in book form. The spirit connection between collecting art and collecting art books is to get a signed art book. Then you have the artist's hand in the work. Isn't that what everyone's looking for? You can even frame a book like a piece of art. I did that with a copy of The Philosophy of Andy Warhol that has the soup-can drawing in it; I rigged it up so it's open to that page. 1. Chris Johanson Matthu PlacekChris Johanson.He makes colorful and almost childlike paintings of people, cities, and solar systems, often with words of wisdom or existential outbursts. Also: sculptures, video, and music. (See his record label, Awesome Vistas.) GQInstallation view from Johanson's MOCA solo show, Within the River of Time Is My Mind.Johanson is a color-drunk traveler barreling across the road of excess. The early stu<U+2260> in the mid- and late '90s depicted the struggles of everyday life in S.F.'s then downtrodden Mission District, where he spent his "artistvoice- finding" years. But his momentum, technically and conceptually, kept him moving onward and up. Now Johanson's initial visual trademark—gritty, gray-toned urban decay—has given way to a more threedimensional POV. His palette has broadened to include not only brighter colors but also a more hopeful worldview. 2. Andrew Kuo Matthu PlacekAndrew Kuo.Kuo makes bright, impressively sized “color chart” paintings and smaller, quieter self-portraits. Hand-screened T-shirts, often incorporating ’90s bands (Superchunk, Bone Thugs-N-Harmony), Budweiser (“There Will Be Bud”), or the NBA (James Harden and Jeremy Lin as Beavis and Butt-head).  Andrew KuoAndrew Kuo's Jeremy Lin #17 (left) and Reasons to Move to LA.Kuo’s recent show You Say Tomato focused on his razor-sharp, opulent color charts (see #3 above). While at first they might seem like purely visual explorations, a closer look reveals they’re actually more like “emotion charts”—each piece is Kuo’s carefully plotted attempt to map his feelings.  We follow along via a key: One color represents the thought “I like the idea of people, but not the idea of spending time with them.” Another corresponds to “My waking life is bookended by two beers.” 3. Wes Lang Matthu Placek/GQWes Lang.Lang was self-taught while working as an art hanger at the Guggenheim. He makes busy, badass paintings and drawings on canvas. He's known for an infamous series of drawings made on hotel stationery while in residence at the Chateau Marmont. Wes LangWes Lang's Blood, Chet and Tears.We think of Lang as a black-denim-clad avatar mining the post-pop American landscape. He gathers iconography, stirs it all up, and brings it to a boil to tell his own cryptic stories.  His cavases are layered, Basquiat-like, with vignettes: skulls wearing Native American headdresses, panhead Harley-Davidsons, buxom pinup models, cigarette-smoking Playboy Bunnies.  There are also textual exhortations—EXPAND, EXPAND, EXPAND and I’LL GET UP AND FLY AWAY—that express the artist’s fanaticism for both the Tao Te Ching and the Grateful Dead. And while the hand skills make the first impression, it’s the text that often holds the pieces together. Framing tips from Cookie Vazquez of C.L.V. Art Services in Manhattan: 1. You need a framer you can trust. Prices and quality vary wildly, and a frame protects your art. For a reference, call another collector or a local gallery. 2. Always get archival, museum-quality frames with UV-blocking Plexiglas. Cheap mats or tape cause damage; glass can shatter and slice up your art. 3. Don’t frame it all. A canvas doesn’t need a frame, and it shouldn’t have Plexi. 4.  Ask to see various options—modern, less modern, period, etc. I can do a simple metal frame with UV Plexi for under a hundred bucks. Or we can go with twelve-karat white-gold leaf. Flickr/bracketing_life1. Online Paddle8.com: Twice-monthly sales feature blue-chip artists (Koons, Hirst); charity auctions host work that's in reach, like a Joe Bradley drawing for $6,600. (His paintings go for ten times that.) Artspace.com: Check out Gregory Crewdson's photos at White Cube from your bed. Artsy.net: Boasts a 50,000-piece collection with prices geared both to first-time buyers and to seasoned collectors. 2. New York Galleries Gagosin: "The Met of galleries." Home Alone: A downtown gallery on Forsyth started by Hanna Liden, Nate Lowman, who dated Mary-Kate Olsen, and Leo Fitzpatrick of Kids and The Wire fame. Half Gallery: On the Upper East Side; has featured artists like Terry Richardson and Lucien Smith. Fulton Ryder: Known for its pulp-fiction-inspired work by a secretive Gagosian artist. Gavin Brown: Has shown the work of young artists Joe Bradley and Spencer Sweeney. Team Gallery: In SoHo; hosted a Ryan McGinley show by having Atlas Sound play a set from the roof. Marlborough: Photography book stores Dashwood and Printed Matter. This article originally appeared at GQ.com.  Copyright 2014. Follow GQ.com on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
It's one of the most popular grocery stores on the planet, and also one of the most unique.
Mike Nudelman/Business InsiderClockwise from top left: Prince George, Malala Yousafzai, David Karp, Edward Snowden, Michael Jordan, Vladimir Putin, Janet Yellen, and Warren Buffett.From Prince William and Kate Middleton's royal bundle of joy — third in line of succession to the British throne — to 98-year-old David Rockefeller, the oldest billionaire alive, it's evident that authority transcends shape, size, and age. Power is, in fact, relative to a person's capacity to enact change or direct the behavior of others when compared to his or her peer's ability to do the same. In creating this list, we considered three criteria to determine power. A person's sphere of influence was the greatest indicator, followed by potential for acquiring future power, and estimated net worth. If two candidates of the same age seemed equally powerful, their net worth served as the deciding factor. Now it's time to meet the most powerful people in politics, tech, finance, entertainment, sports, retail, and culture, ages 0 to 100. FREE AppDownload
Simon Bruty / Getty ImagesWhat defines low socioeconomic status? Objectively, it means fewer economic resources and educational opportunities, less access to elite schools and clubs, more subordinate positions in the workplace, and increased levels of stress. For the upper-class, it’s just the inverse: more resources, more leisure, less stress. From the realities facing each group, you might assume that members of the lower-class would be more focused on meeting their own survival needs and, thereby, prioritize their needs over those of others. As a result, you might also expect them to be less trustworthy as compared to members of the upper-class who, given their greater resources, have the luxury to trust. But if you do, you’re missing a central point about how trust really works. Trust isn’t a luxury. It’s a tool we need to get by when we can’t make it on our own; it’s a means of survival for those who must depend on others. Viewed this way, predictions about trust and class get turned on their heads. Most of us don’t usually think about it, but the simple act of crossing the street necessitates some level of trust. Stepping into an intersection makes you vulnerable to being hit. Remaining safe usually involves trusting that approaching cars will slow down or stop and allow you to proceed. You might say you never actually think about trusting a driver, but most people have had the experience of trying to decide whether to cross in front of an oncoming car. Does it have a lot of collision damage? Is the driver blaring his music and revving his engine? If the answer to either of these questions (or ones similar) is yes, you’d probably choose not to cross the street when you might have done so if the car were a cute VW Bug being driven by a nun. The choice to cross isn’t just influenced by the physics of velocity; trust plays a role. To relate that to social class, consider this experiment. You’re standing on a corner in downtown San Francisco. It’s a four-way stop, meaning cars are supposed to pause before entering the intersection. As you’re sipping your latte, you look to your left before stepping off the curb. The car approaching is a shiny BMW. Do you cross? How about if it’s a Ford Fusion? The model of trust I’ve been describing suggests you might want to pause if it’s the BMW. There’s really only one way to tell, though. You’ve got to put yourself out there. And that’s just what Paul Piff and colleagues from the University of California at Berkeley did. As cars approached this busy intersection in San Francisco, a researcher would enter the crosswalk. Unbeknownst to drivers, he also noted the make of their car and their perceived age and gender. The main datum for each car was whether the driver paused to let the researcher cross at the stop sign (as is required by the California Vehicle Code) or sped up to cut him off and thereby proceed more quickly toward the driver’s goals. Paul and colleagues divided drivers into five SES categories based on their cars — think Hyundais on one end and Ferraris on the other. The results were quite remarkable. At the lowest end of the class gradient, every single driver stopped to let the pedestrian entering the crosswalk continue on his way. Midway up the class ladder, about 30% of drivers broke the law and cut off the pedestrian so that they could keep going. At the upper end of SES, almost 50% of drivers broke the law to put their own needs first. At the most basic level, these findings offer a provocative warning. When you’re vulnerable, upper-class individuals are more likely to disregard the trust you place in them if doing so furthers their own ends. That might seem hyperbolic. After all, we’re simply talking impersonal interactions at traffic intersections. Fair enough. If the data ended there, I’d agree there might not be much to it. But it doesn’t end there. Suspecting their view of the upper-class’ trustworthiness — or lack thereof — was correct, Piff’s team began a multi-pronged investigation that examined class-based effects both on a willingness to trust others and on trustworthy behavior itself. In all the experiments, they first divided individuals into distinct class levels based on typical measures of SES and then exposed them to different situations. What follows is a sampling. One experiment was presented as an investigation of negotiation tactics. The participants — here members of the upper- or lower-class — were told that they would play the role of an employer negotiating a salary with a job candidate. These “employers” were given a lot of information about the job (e.g., salary ranges, details about responsibilities), but one piece was central to the researchers concerns: The job was scheduled to be eliminated in six months. As the participants reviewed the file of the job candidate they were to interview, it became clear that he was looking for a long-term job and wouldn’t consider a position unless it was likely to provide at least two years of employment. The “employers” then produced a written script of how they would describe the position to the job-seeker. What instantly became clear is that as social class increased, so did the likelihood of concealing the fact that the job would soon end. In fact, the experimenters asked these faux employers if they would tell the job applicant the truth about when the position would end if he asked directly. Again, significantly more upper-class individuals indicated that they would lie — that they would intentionally betray the trust the job-seeker placed in them as an honest supervisor. Strike two for trustworthiness. Next, the team had participants of different classes play a gambling game on computers. It was a dice-rolling game where higher numbers corresponded to more money won. The task was quite simple: Roll the dice five times and report the results to the experimenters. What happened is just what you’d expect based on the above findings. More upper-class individuals inflated their rolls, thereby ensuring they’d receive larger sums of money from the experimenters than they deserved — a fact that was easy to determine as the computers surreptitiously recorded the totals of the actual roles. Strike three. These findings offer what seems to be a straightforward message. Members of the upper-class — the better off among us — are self-serving. They don’t need to rely on others and would rather members of the lower-classes — just like the pedestrians in the San Francisco intersection — get out of their way. But is this a fair assessment? The data are certainly clear: Higher social class often equals lower trustworthiness. That seems to suggest that untrustworthiness is a birthright of the upper class. To me, though, this view doesn’t make much sense. I’d argue that trustworthiness is dynamic — it comes from calculations that are constantly being updated. Like the rest of human morality, it’s not fixed. Past behavior only predicts future behavior when the situation hasn’t much changed. In the case of social class, this view suggests a very different way to understand why trust varies. Yes, members of the upper-class have been raised in privileged environs, but that’s not why they’re on average less trustworthy. It’s because they’re still living in those environs — because they still, at this moment, have resources to burn. What drives trustworthiness is a sense that you need others, a sense that you’re not invulnerable or able to achieve your desired ends all on your own. Taken to its logical end, this view suggests that the lower-class is more trustworthy because it has to be, but if I were to pluck someone out of a position of deprivation and suddenly place him or her on a higher rung of the status ladder, a decrease in trustworthiness will, as emerging research shows, quickly follow. If you stop to think about it, it doesn’t seem such an odd idea. The story of the little guy who makes it big is a fairly common one. Boy or girl from humble roots gains some power — gets a big promotion at work, lands an acting or music contract, wins the lottery, or otherwise begins to move in more affluent circles — and his or her personality changes. He’s not the same anymore; he’s somehow more self-absorbed and less reliable. Of course, it works the other way, too, if Hollywood is to be believed. Rich, snobby girl suddenly loses it all and learns to become a caring and honorable member of the lower- or middle-class. If I’m right about this, it means that it’s not so much the class you’re raised in that determines your trustworthiness, it’s where you are right now relative to those around you. Put another way, it means that, at least when it comes to trust, being in the 1% is a state of mind as opposed to a result of breeding. This post has been adapted from David DeSteno's The Truth About Trust: How It Determines Success in Life, Love, Learning, and More. FREE AppDownload
Nobody is going to deny that post-crisis recovery has been disappointingly slow by almost any measure. But it might not have to stay that way. Investor and analyst Conor Sen has a great piece up on his blog about the handoff from "recovery" to "growth." "Recovery" is essentially just a period of re-utilizing the assets that went dormant during the downturn. "Growth" is the period of building brand new assets. And there are signs that's happening now. One bullish sign is that in recent months there's been a major acceleration in loan growth at commercial banks. FRED Another exciting trend is the upturn in wages, which speaks to rising pressure on the existing work force and perhaps the need to kick hiring into higher gear. FRED  Meanwhile, as Conor notes, private residential and non-residential fixed investment remain at shares of the economy that are associated with extreme downturns. FRED Loan growth is picking up. Wages are rising. And investment remains extremely depressed. The recipe for the kind of real growth people have been yearning for may be here. Read Conor's entire post here &gt; FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Carla MacNeilWe don’t talk a lot about investing here on the Money Manifesto blog. Honestly, it’s because I find investing quite boring. Don’t get me wrong, investing is very important. It’s a key to eventual financial freedom. If you’re investing right, it can be very boring and there isn’t a lot to report on. While I find the act of investing very boring, I can’t say the same for watching my investments grow. I get very excited to see my retirement and investments accounts slowly grow toward my eventual goals. That wouldn’t happen without having some guidelines to follow when I invest. So what concepts do I use to guide my investments that are so boring? Unfortunately I don’t have huge amounts of cash laying around to invest at any given point in time. My guess is that you probably don’t either. That’s OK, though. Instead of throwing big chunks of money in the market at any given time, I simply invest with money from every paycheck I get. How does it work? I simply set up automatic transfers to my retirement and brokerage accounts to invest money for me one day after each of my paychecks. That way I don’t forget and I don’t have to think about it. In addition, I’m slowly buying shares a little bit at a time. What’s the benefit of that? I know that I’m not investing all of my money at a potential peak of the market. Instead, I get a few shares as they go up and down and in the long run I’ll benefit from the historical increases the stock market has provided. Low cost investing is the only way to go in my book. I personally use Vanguard due to their large selection of low cost funds that meet my needs. Even a 0.50% difference in investment fees can mean hundreds of thousands of dollars difference in your eventual nest egg. Crazy but true. I never try to time the market, and this works perfectly with dollar cost averaging. I simply invest every single paycheck. Why is this important? If you miss just a couple of the best days in the market each year you’ll lose at least a couple percent off of the annual return. Plus, if I try to time the market with my investments I have to make two decisions. First, I’d have to decide when to sell before or right at the peak of the market. If I sell to early I’d lose out on profits and if I sell to late I’d lose a ton of money. The second decision is when to move back into my investments. If I get in too early, I’d lose even more money but if I get in too late I could miss some of the biggest gains of the year. It doesn’t sound worth it to me, because I’m no fortune teller. One last thing I make sure I check at least yearly is how my investments fit my goals. I make sure that they still fit my risk tolerance and that they’re not slacking in performance. One day you’ll be living off of your investments, so you’ll want to make sure that they still fit your needs and you don’t ignore them. You could quickly end up in bad shape if you do. By following these simple rules, my investing strategy has become extremely boring. Personally, I think that’s a great thing! It makes it so I don’t worry or freak out over market dips or gains. Instead, I’ll simply watch my investments grow until one day they put off enough income so I don’t have to worry about making money ever again! FREE AppDownload
We have talked about this on numerous occasions over the last few weeks/months (see linkfest below), but the price action this week in AMZN, FB, LNKD, NFLX, NOW &amp; P convinces us that it’s over.  Some of these stocks may never again see the 2014 highs, and others might not for a very long time. Chart of the Day – YELP: All Bounces Are Not Created Equal MorningWord 4/21/14: Ominous Burrito Reversal Pattern Forming in Netflix? MorningWord 4/17/14: Choppy Seas MorningWord 4/11/14: Different This Time?  MorningWord 4/9/14: Sifting Through the Dotcom Rubble MorningWord 4/4/14: New Highs in $SPX No Cure For This Virus – NOW SINA TWTR MorningWord 1/15/14: Sagging DDDs – XONE, DDD, SSYS MorningWord 12/26/13: Are We There Yet?? Market Tops Usually Preceded By Overzealous M&amp;A Twitter is going to be the next one to watch, as they are set to report Q1 on April 29th after the close. The options market is already implying about a one day move of about 15%, which will likely increase as we get closer considering the stock’s 24% decline on February 5th, when the company reported their first quarter as a public company. It is my sense that all of the issues that investors hated about the company’s user growth (lack there of) and anemic user engagement are likely to be prevalent in the results from Q1. And then the following week, on May 5th, (to trade May 6th) 465 million shares come unlocked for sale from insiders and early investors. The stock popped earlier in the month when someinvestors/employees said they would not sell, but let’s be honest, the IPO came at $26, the stock is $42.63, still up 63% from its issue price. Sure, it’s a far cry from the all time highs near $75 in December, but it still beats a sharp stick in the eye for IPO investors. If the gig is up, those inside these sorts of companies or those early investors in some of these overvalued companies are likely to know before all the suckers who bought them in the greater fools parade of the last couple years. My thesis doesn’t mean that many of these companies won’t continue to dominate their respective businesses. It just means that the bubble like price action in their stock certificates has been pricked, and many of the stocks will see lower lows from here in the near future. Now as regular readers know, I wouldn’t short these stocks with my worst enemy’s money. Why? Cause it’s these sort of stocks that can gap 10-15% in a heartbeat, and that risk is silly. But I do like to define my risk and make a risk/reward bet that fits my thesis. So here is the trade but with one big Caveat. Generally we are not huge fans of pressing shorts that are very oversold (as many of these web 2.0 stocks are) down 20% or 30% in a short time, but we have had some recent success of late, and we think the set up here is attractive in TWTR. We are risking what we are willing to lose. This article originally appeared at Risk Reversal .  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Jack CusanoWilliam Ackman, right, CEO of Pershing Square Capital Management LP.It's a monster deal with a fair amount of complication and $45 billion on the line — hedge-fund manager Bill Ackman is teaming up with pharmaceutical company, Valeant (VRX), to acquire one of its competitors, Botox-maker Allergan (AGN). Together, they would make a massive pharmaceutical company, and take Valeant a big step closer to achieving its goal of becoming a $150 billion company by 2016. It sounds like business history in the making. But there's another way to tell this story. Allergan sees it, and doesn't like it one bit. It goes like this: Ackman and Valeant aren't buying Allergan — they're swallowing it whole and digesting it quickly. And on the other side Allergan will only be a faint memory. As of last night, the takeover (if it goes through) will be hostile. Allergan's board voted to swallow a "poison pill" to ensure that existing shareholders will receive new powers if any one shareholder (Ackman and VRX) acquires 10% or more of the company. It's a clear message that Allergan wants no part of this deal. So the question is — what could Allergan be so afraid of? Is it the nature of the deal itself? Is it becoming a part of VRX and its business model? There are solid arguments for both. But one thing is clear: Once Allergan goes through this process it will not be able to recognize itself. It will be a completely different company. "No one's being raided," said Ackman in an interview with Bloomberg TV Wednesday morning. "Actually what we're doing is we're helping facilitate a transaction between two companies for the benefit of the shareholders." Yet, as Bloomberg's Matt Levine wrote yesterday, Ackman and Valeant's strategy for taking the company smack of a 1980s takeover tactic called a "toehold." Ackman called it a "strategic block." Ackman and VRX have already teamed to up to buy almost 10% of Allergan. Ackman did it by buying almost $4 billion worth of call options on the stock. Valeant put up $75.9 million itself. Sounds like a win for Valeant, aside from the fact that a big hedge fund will now own a huge chunk of the company it hopes to acquire. If Valeant wanted to avoid that, it could've hired bankers, paid them their fee, and owned all of Allergan. Pearson told Bloomberg Valeant didn't have $4 billion to put at risk — but what about the $45 billion deal? What about its recent $2.6 billion buyout of Medicis or its $8.7 billion Bausch &amp; Lomb deal? Those are mostly financed with debt. "Bill put at risk $4 billion. First of all, we did not have $4 billion sitting at the bank. We do not accumulate cash, we use our cash to build our business," said Pearson in the interview. But Pearson's business model itself is about making acquisitions. He has said that he's trying to build a new kind of pharmaceutical company that capitalizes on consumer-based trends in the market instead of creating them. In Pearson's world — and in our world soon enough — you can see a commercial about how Latisse (an Allergen product) makes your eyelashes look like Bambi, head to your doctor's office, and pick it up. In this world it's the sales reps that do the heavy lifting. Pearson sees this shift happening in the entire pharmaceutical space, and he wants to get ahead of it as fast as possible by acquiring already-popular products. Logically, that means a lot of acquisitions and a lot of debt. "Is the task of growing from $1 billion to $40 billion in six years more difficult than the task of growing from $40 billion to $150 billion in three? I don't know," Pearson said at conversation with Goldman Sachs analyst Gary Nachman earlier this year. "People have always been skeptical and ... our investors are rooting us on and others are rooting against us. That's life." Meanwhile, Valeant prides itself is running a lean business. He told Bloomberg's Stephanie Ruhle that the company doesn't even have a team that integrates its new acquisitions. Once Valeant acquires a company it goes to work cutting costs, especially R&amp;D. Bausch &amp; Lomb was spending about 7.8% of its revenue on R&amp;D before it was acquired. That number will be cut, and for this Ackman compared Valeant to private equity firm 3G and called Pearson "one of the greatest operators in the business." "We spend less than 5% of our revenues on research and development," said Pearson in a 2012 interview with The Wall Street Journal. "Instead, our innovation comes from acquiring companies and products that are already approved and in the market, so we avoid the risk associated with R&amp;D." That isn't necessarily accurate, though. All pharmaceutical products are at the mercy of innovation. One of the reasons Valeant wants to acquire Allergan is its eye- and skin-care portfolio, which includes not only Botox but also the popular Latisse. It's a portfolio that Valeant could use some help with. The company disclosed in its 2013 annual report that its own line of facial-care products, including the popular Retin-A Micro, have been losing share to generic brands to the tune of $286.7 million. These things tend to happen in the world of pharmaceuticals — where time is measured in decades — but that doesn't mean companies do nothing. Valeant's loss in market share contributed to the company's overall 25% decline in profits, specifically led by a 30% decline in developed market profits. Snapping up the ubiquitous Botox should help with that, but who knows for how long. Then Valeant will likely need to do another deal. Who's selling? FREE AppDownload
CNBCMorgan Stanley's Adam ParkerMorgan Stanley's chief U.S. equity strategist Adam Parker isn't buying your excuse that you don't have access to email. In a new note to clients, Parker writes that he got an email from someone saying they had "limited access" to their email. He proceeds to explain how that's a lame excuse in this day and age. Here's Parker:  We just got an email from someone we were trying to reach that said they were out of the office with limited access to their email. Where on planet earth can you go and have limited access to your email? We travel a lot. Over 100 flights, to five continents, to more than 15 countries, and 30+ states in the last year. E-mail works on the way to the airport, on the plane, and when you land. It works in tunnels, over bridges, and on trains. It works in Key Biscayne, Boston, Palm Beach, Philadelphia, Wilmington, Baltimore, Washington DC, Miami, Fort Lauderdale, Nassau, London, Charlotte, Winchester UK, Mexico City, Tokyo, rural Yunnan Province, China, Rio and Sao Paolo, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Truckee, CA, Lisbon, Madrid, Senegal (including 4 hours from the capital, Dakar), Montreal, Toronto, Chicago, Kansas City, Des Moines, Mumbai, Bangalore, and all over the Netherlands. We know because we have been to all these places and more in the last several months. Do people think that this excuse, “limited access to my email,” works anymore? It’s an anachronism. I guess magically all these people are vacationing in Easter Island, naming their own icebergs, or on safaris in Tanzania (we have heard it works in these places too). The internet wasn’t readily available in 1994 around the globe – it is now. It’s like saying, “we can’t afford to call grandma because it is a long distance call and that’s expensive.” That was a valid reason in 1979. But now, what people really mean in the first place is, “I am tired or feeling lazy and feel I have earned the right to not check my email.” What they mean in the second place is, “I don’t feel like talking to my wife’s mother right now so I am not going to let my kids talk to her either.” Let’s be serious, access to email is ubiquitous, and the incremental margin of a long distance phone call is zero today. History can sometimes just be irrelevant or misleading. Part of the equity strategist’s job is to make a glossary for investors, to translate certain phrases into more understandable phrases to help investors make better investment decisions, to call “baloney” on management or investor phrases and expose why they might be anachronisms, or where, at least, history might be irrelevant or misleading. Times change. The tone is a bit aggressive. Sounds like somebody didn't unplug from their Blackberry this weekend.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA garbage collector walks past residential and office buildings in construction, in HefeiBEIJING (Reuters) - China aims to start building more than 7 million units of public housing this year, the Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development said on Saturday, signaling the latest government move to counter high property prices. The government intends to finish building 4.8 million units this year, the ministry said on its website. Large-scale construction of public homes in China not only supports growth in the world's second-largest economy, it also helps to quell discontent over rising house prices. Yet some have in the past criticized China's public homes - also known as affordable housing - as being ineffective because they say good apartments are set aside for officials, leaving poorly built ones for the public. The government has spent more than four years trying to tame record home prices on concerns that they were stoking an asset bubble and some see the efforts bearing fruit. China's home price inflation slowed to an eight-month low in March. Average new home prices in China's 70 major cities rose 7.7 percent in March from a year earlier, easing from the previous month's 8.7 percent rise, according to Reuters calculations based on data released by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) last week. (Reporting by Sui-Lee Wee; Editing by Stephen Powell) FREE AppDownload
We took the 2014 Ferrari F12berlinetta for a test-drive in the beautiful Connecticut countryside. For a unique perspective, we attached GoPro cameras to various parts of the car.Produced by Graham Flanagan.FOLLOW BI VIDEO: on Twitter.
Wikimedia Commons The stock market had a horrible first part of the month, but over the last several days there's been a nice comeback (yesterday notwithstanding). At 1863.40, the S&amp;P 500 is less than 2% off of its all-time high. So on the surface, it would seem that the market has been a little more volatile lately, but that mostly everything's fine. But this surface-level reading ignores some of the extreme carnage we've seen in high-beta tech stocks, which naturally have been very popular areas of the market for traders to play. If that's where you've been concentrated (which a lot of traders and hedge funds have been) then the S&amp;P being a mere 2% off its high probably doesn't mean much to you. The pseudonymous trader The Fly — who goes by @the_real_fly on Twitter, and who has been a well-liked member of the community for years — put up a post yesterday simply titled O U T. He wrote: I sold almost everything today and now sit with 90% cash. Whether the market rallies from here, or if I marked the bottom in stocks, that is immaterial to me. This is a mountainous f**k up on my behalf and it will take me a long, long time to not only recover from this, but regain the confidence to make it back. As the saying goes, “scared money makes no money.” My year to date losses were stopped out at about -32%, that’s another -13% for this week alone. Clearly, the beta was too high. It’s obvious that I should have sold long ago. Yes, I should have done a million things differently. I’ve managed around each and every market crises almost without flaw, until now. We all have our comeuppance, at some time or another. Today I got mines. In the post just previous to that one, he spelled out some of the carnage in the market: Before I sell everything and fire myself from ever managing money again, I’d like to share with you some of the percentage gain losses, from 8 WEEKS AGO to now, of some of 2013's favorite stocks. EXEL -58% HALO -57% IMPV -55% RPTP -52% GIMO -45% BNFT -51% CLDX -50% FUEL -46% ALNY -40% YNDX -40% DDD -38%  That's just part of the list he posted. The Fly has always been a great blogger, and it's refreshing that someone so public is so forthright. You should check out his whole site because the last several posts cover multiple facets of the market from a trader/momentum perspective. You can be sure there are many more folks out there in the market like him, who have been clobbered in recent weeks. The vast majority of them won't be nearly as blunt. (Via ForexLive) FREE AppDownload
InformationIsBeautifulWhen do people end their romantic relationships? Is the urge to break up seasonal...or are dump days distributed smoothly throughout the year? According to the following chart by David McCandless and Lee Byron of Information Is Beautiful, there are major break-up seasons. The chart is based on Facebook status data and first appeared in a book called The Visual Miscellaneum. Based on the data, the big break-up seasons are late winter (February-March, after Valentine's Day) and early winter (November and December, just before the holidays.) There are also break-up peaks on April Fool's Day, in mid-June, and on Mondays. Almost no one breaks up on Christmas. It's apparently "too cruel." The chart was recently tweeted by Arthur Charpentier of @Freakonometrics. Information Is Beautiful FREE AppDownload
This week we wrote about how there's a huge fortune to be made if you can solve the problem of cheap payments. We listed payments as one of 10 big problems that are crying out for a solution (others include cheap battery storage, water desalination, and a pill that makes you lose weight). One company that's trying to revolutionize the payments game is Ripple, which is essentially a hybrid of PayPal and Bitcoin. On their company blog this week, they posted a fascinating piece titled: 5 Crazy Payment Practices We Accept as Totally Normal. The post describes all the things we do in the financial system which really should be ancient history. Included in the post was this image, which has been floating around for awhile, but which is funny and true. It shows when banks are open vs. when you have time to go to the bank. Ripple Blog Maybe it's a slight exaggeration, and maybe you don't have to go to the bank that much anymore. But tons of people still go to banks every day, and find it to be a pain in the ass to schedule those trips. Also tons of people are still using checks for things. And as Ripple notes in their post, there are still a ridiculous amount of paper receipts floating around too.  Bottom line is that the payment and banking system remains ridiculously antiquated, and a fortune can obviously still be made by bringing it up to speed. FREE AppDownload
The California drought keeps getting worse. According to the LA Times, the entire state of California hasn't been 100% in drought in 15 years. That is until now. Here's the latest official map: UNL.edu This is a matter of national concern. The immediate impact is on food prices, which have been soaring. Meat prices have really surged. The bigger picture concern is what this says about the changing climate, and what we can expect as "normal" going forward. FREE AppDownload
One of the biggest stories in the economy right now is how meh the housing market is. At least by some measures. Here, for example, is housing starts, which had been rising nicely (seemingly headed toward pre-crisis levels) but which has run into a buzzsaw lately. FRED The downturn has been even more pronounced in existing home sales. FRED These charts aren't pretty, but with housing, the story is always more complicated than the top-line numbers suggest. For one thing, there are lots of different ways to measure housing (price, inventory, new home sales, existing home sales, etc.) But also, even within a series like existing home sales, the intent behind said home sales matters. As Bill McBride at Calculated Risk pointed out in a must-read post this week, the biggest part of the existing home sales decline is due to a drop in distressed housing sales (fewer and fewer fire sales as a result of stretched homeowners) while the percentage of sales that are conventional is on the rise. So this is a good sign. And even new home sales/housing starts (which are off to a sluggish start this year) should be up nicely for the year as a whole. Meanwhile, housing should benefit from two tailwinds. From Capital Economics: The apparent crumbling in the housing recovery has, at least temporarily, removed a valuable support to GDP growth. But the wider economic recovery will carry on regardless and it may not be long before residential investment once again starts adding to GDP growth. The fading of the housing recovery is mainly due to two factors; the effects of the severe weather and last year’s rise in mortgage rates. With the weather returning to normal and mortgage rates having fallen back a bit, the housing recovery will come back to life before long. This may be optimistic, but the bigger point is this: Numbers remain generally up (the numbers that really matter, anyway), and the rest of the year should be fine, especially as the weather improves, and the impact of recent lower rates trickles through. FREE AppDownload
Heads up. You should get a lot of rest this weekend, because the week is going to be huge for the economy. The following is a quick guide from Citi of all the events and economic data releases that will be happening this week. Citi Among the big events: Nonfarm Payrolls (obviously), the FOMC decision, ADP, Personal Consumption, and the ISM. The ISM report is also part of a much bigger event, which is global PMI day, which will give us the latest insight on the state of manufacturing all around the world. The general view is that the economy is rebounding from its winter freeze, but that we're still not totally "back" and it can't be confirmed that 100% of the slowdown was due to bad weather. As for the Fed, there has not been much hype about this meeting, as the expectation is for a continuation of current "taper" policy. Nothing that's happened since the last meeting would give the Fed any reason to tap on the brakes. Obviously we'll be covering the data LIVE, and by the end of next week, we hope to have a few more answers about what's going on. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersVenezuela's President Nicolas Maduro speaks to the media after his meeting with China's Foreign Minister Wang Yi at Miraflores Palace in CaracasCARACAS (Reuters) - Venezuela's President Nicolas Maduro said on Friday that 16 people had been arrested in a new round of inspections to find alleged price gougers whom the socialist government blames for the worst inflation rate in the Americas. Authorities detained dozens in raids on businesses at the end of 2013 in the first phase of what Maduro has called an "economic offensive" to tackle runaway consumer prices. The 51-year-old successor to Hugo Chavez said a second wave started this week had turned up retailers hiking prices of meat and other foods by between 200 and 400 percent despite a new law capping profit margins at 30 percent. "We have various detainees, I'm sorry to say ... The law is very clear. We already have 16 people detained for speculating and robbing the people," he said in a speech to the nation. "We're going to go from place to place, because there is no excuse to speculate with prices. This economic offensive is more thorough." Monthly inflation rose to 4.1 percent in March, taking the South American OPEC nation's annualized rate to nearly 60 percent, one of the highest in the world. The government blames unscrupulous speculators, and the impact of economic disruptions during recent street protests against Maduro. But critics say the data illustrates the failure of socialist economics in the nation of 29 million people. (Writing by Andrew Cawthorne; Editing by Kim Coghill) FREE AppDownload
