Good morning! It’s Wednesday, and we get Australia’s GDP data in a few hours’ time. Here’s what you need to know. 1. It’s Aussie GDP day. We get Q1 GDP data at 11.30am AEST (join us live) and with an export surge and a burst of consumer spending evident, economists are expecting a 0.9% rise for the quarter and a solid 3.2% year-on-year result. 2. Markets are flat. Both the S&amp;P500 and the Nasdaq moved very little overnight and the Dow was up just 0.1%. Trade was light in Europe after Eurozone CPI printed at 0.5% versus 0.7% expected, another sign that the ECB needs to act with further stimulus in its policy announcement tomorrow night. Today we get services PMIs from around the world, including Australia. 3. Soc Gen’s profit cycle top. Highly regarded Soc Gen analyst Albert Edwards has called a top in the US profit cycle. Edwards says that investors missed a big move in the recent US GDP data which showed a “10% annualized slump in the US Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) favoured measure of whole economy profits”. While it won’t hit straight away, it is a warning and a bad sign for global stocks which take their lead from the US -the while the Fed’s monetary policy has been holding stocks up so too have increasing profits. More here. 4. Australian interest rates. The RBA left the target cash rate on hold at 2.5% as expected yesterday but there have been some significant changes since the rate cutting cycle during which the major banks routinely failed to pass on cuts of 25 or 50 basis points in full to homeowners. They were citing the higher cost of funding in the post-GFC world. Greg McKenna notes that has now changed – funding costs have fallen – so perhaps it’s time for them to think about opening up some competition and cutting independently of the RBA. What are the chances? 5. GS Elevator is back. John LeFevre has another of his incomparable Goldman Sachs Elevator columns out: the guide to crushing your Wall Street internship. Tips include “Sure, ‘be proactive’ and ‘show initiative’, but don’t let that exuberance make someone else’s life harder in the process,” and “Don’t wear Hermes ties. You have to earn it.” More here. 6. Victoria on the brink. Rogue Victorian MP Geoff Shaw has Spring St in crisis after declaring he would support a no-confidence motion in Denis Napthine’s government if one was tabled by the Labor opposition. Napthine has sworn “not to be held to ransom by some rogue MP from Frankston”. The state has an election due in November but this could bring it on early if the government is defeated in Parliament. Opposition Leader Daniel Andrews is walking a tightrope – bringing on an election now could backfire by infuriating voters – but he has called for a meeting with Napthine and the Governor to resolve what he calls a “constitutional crisis”. 7. Violin pools for everyone. A former Goldman Sachs executive who designed this pool modelled on a Stradivarius he once owned is now in business trying to sell similarly outrageous renovations to other Wall St executives and hedge fund guys, Bloomberg reports. The chin rest is a spa pool and there’s a koi pool shaped like a bow. Who said bankers have no taste? NJ Custom Pools 8. Game of Thrones spoilers update. Queen Cersei Lannister is yet again ahead of the game. She posted this on Instagram two months ago (it won’t mean anything if you haven’t seen the latest ep), and her followers are just starting to twig that she’s been doing it for a while now. iamlenaheady via Instagram 9. Innovation nation. Australia’s startup community is always banging on about the “help” they need – mainly from government. SurveyMonkey CEO Dave Goldberg, in Sydney last month, told me he was surprised this kept coming up because in the US, “the government does absolutely nothing”. It’s a fair point but also misses the vast scale differences in the economies and the resultant skills supply that the US enjoys. But there’s a more fundamental question: why should Australia support startups at all? Today in the AFR Telstra CEO David Thodey offers the simplest, clearest reason: because bright, entrepreneurial Australians will simply leave the country and work elsewhere – to places like Singapore and the US – if the conditions aren’t right for them at home. 10. What’s the best time to get to the airport? A US mathematician has analyzed the benefits of arriving and waiting around as opposed to dashing through through the doors on time. And he says he has come up with the perfect ideal of what is your time well-spent. Of course, you’ll have to click on the link to find out what that is. Have a cracking day. I’m on Twitter: @colgo This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Susana VeraTraders look at computer screens on the trading floor of Bankinter bank during a Spanish bond auction in Madrid September 20, 2012.FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Bonds Are A Great Diversifier Even In The Current Low Interest Rate Environment (Vanguard)  In a low interest rate environment investors may be reluctant to rebalance their portfolio and reallocate to bonds. "The low rate environment doesn't change the important role of bonds. Diversification remains one of the best ways to help defend clients' portfolios against unexpected market volatility," says Fran Kinniry, a principal in Vanguard Investment Strategy Group. High quality U.S. bonds are still "among the best diversifiers of equity risk." Kinniry also argues that it's important for advisors to teach their clients to tune out the noise. Investors Should Stop Chasing Top-Performing Funds (The Wall Street Journal)  Frequently, when it comes to investing, investors look for top performers. But Tom Brakke, writer and investment adviser, writes that this isn't the best way to go about picking a manager. "Was the short-term performance you see a sign of skill or luck? How would you know? If you think it was “skill,” was the performance driven by a one-time insight or something that is likely to repeat?" writes Brakke in the WSJ.  "Listings of performance winners in financial publications and advertisements from asset managers trumpeting the “stars” that they’ve earned for past performance aren’t of value to an investor.  Don’t start your selection process by focusing on “top performers”; that’s the rear-view mirror, not the windshield." Albert Edwards: The US Profit Margin Cycle Has Finally Begun Its Downturn (Business Insider) Stock market bulls and bears are divided on whether the current elevated profit margins are sustainable or not. "During the excitement of the downward revision of Q1 US GDP from +0.1% to -1.0% investors seem not to have noticed a $213bn, 10% annualized slump in the US Bureau of Economic Analysis<U+0092>s (BEA) favoured measure of whole economy profits, defined as profits from current production," writes Edwards. "The bottom line is that the US profits margin cycle has begun to turn down at long last (see chart below)," said Edwards. "It is doing so from elevated but not unprecedented levels <U+0096> especially the non- financial part of the economy (my former colleague Leo Doyle always told me I had to add depreciation into the profits numerator as the denominator GDP was also measured gross of depreciation <U+0096> i.e. the G in GDP!)." Albert Edwards, Societe Generale Advisors Working In Teams Make More Money (WealthManagement.com) One in three advisors now works on a team, and advisors working in teams bring in more money, according to WealthManagement.com's annual compensation survey. "The emergence of teams is there. It’s a very significant trend, year after year," founder of the Ensemble Practice Philip Palaveev told Megan Leonhardt at WealthManagement.com.  Advisors in teams "reported an average of $923,606 in gross production, versus $561,247 by solo advisors. Moreover, team practices earned a higher take home pay on average, with the survey finding on average, team players earned $253,636 in total compensation last year. …Solo advisors took home an average $247,840 (including fees, commissions, deferred compensation and bonuses). Those advisors sharing the cost of resources, but not clients or revenues, fared the worst, with advisors in a siloed practice earning an average $196,975 in 2013." 3 Reasons Why It's Premature To Call The Top In Profit Margins (Business Insider) Goldman Sachs economist David Mericle thinks it is "premature" to call the Q1 decline in profit margins "a turning point" for three key reasons. "First, most of the decline in the national accounts measure of corporate profits arose from the BEA's adjustment for the expiration of bonus depreciation, a somewhat uncertain procedure," writes Mericle. "Second, weak growth and productivity in Q1 likely weighed on profits, but should strengthen going forward. Third, wage growth has shown little evidence of a pick-up and remains well below the rate that would consistently detract from margins. We instead expect margins to rise a touch this year and next." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Hugh GentryIt's probably going to get more expensive for Americans to buy solar panels. The Commerce Department has made a preliminary ruling that it will impose duties ranging from 18.56% to 35.21% on solar cells and modules from China. Shayle Kann, senior vice president for research at Greentech Media, said that while Commerce's final ruling won't come for another few months, this is a strong indication of where the department will ultimately come down. "Even if you take these alone — average tariffs for most [Chinese and Taiwanese] manufacturers of 27% —that’s significant," he told BI. "If you take average panel prices today, which is in the low $0.70s [per watt], and increase it by 27%, you’re approaching $1 a watt, which is very significant compared to where we are today." Utility-scale solar projects, which comprises the largest share of both new and overall PV installations in the U.S., are likely to be most affected, since they are the most price sensitive, Kann said.  "27% will certainly kill a lot of projects at margin," Kann said.  The tariffs were sought by the American unit of SolarWorld, a panel manufacturing firm based in Germany. The firm has accused the Chinese of offering illicit subsidies, and separately accused China and Taiwan of illegal dumping. Today's ruling concerns the subsidies.  SolarWorld hailed the decision. “Today is a strong win for the U.S. solar industry,” SolarWorld Industries America President Mukesh Dulani said according to SolarServer.com. “We look forward to the end of illegal Chinese government intervention in the U.S. solar market, and we applaud Commerce for its work that supports fair trade.”  Ironically, GTM Research reported this afternoon that the U.S. saw the second greatest volume of photovoltaic installations on record in Q1 2014 — 1.3 gigawatts worth. The last word on the issue won't be known until this fall, when the  U.S. International Trade Commission makes a final ruling. But this looks grim for end-users.  FREE AppDownload
APWhat's the best time to get to the airport? It depends on how much you hate waiting around an airport, and how willing you are to risk missing your flight. However, if you've never missed a flight, you're probably showing up too early. University of Wisconsin mathematician Jordan Ellenberg explores this problem and many others in his wonderful new book titled "How Not To Be Wrong: The Power Of Mathematical Thinking", a collection of fascinating examples of math and its surprising applications. Here's a summary of Ellenberg's explanation of the airport arrival time problem. The issue comes down to expected utility. Utility is an economic concept used to analyze the costs and benefits of different goods and services for different people. The idea of utility is to try to put some kind of quantitative value on how useful something is to a particular person, giving us the ability to analyze that person's choices. Figuring out when to go to the airport involves a tradeoff: the earlier you show up, the more likely you are to actually make your flight. But, showing up early also involves a cost in the form of time spent at the airport rather than elsewhere. The idea of utility lets us try to quantify this. Say each hour at the airport costs you 10 "utils", or units of utility, and missing your flight costs 50 utils. In other words, missing your flight is about five times as annoying to you as the accumulated nuisance of spending an hour at the airport. We also know that you're more likely to miss your flight the later you show up. Let's say that if you show up a half hour early, you have a 20% chance of missing your flight, an hour early gives a 5% chance, and two hours early leaves you just a 1% chance of missing the flight. This lets us figure out what your expected utility loss is going to be depending on when you show up at the airport. Expected values are a useful tool for analyzing something probabilistic, giving us a kind of average value of the outcome. Say you show up at the airport an hour early. We have two costs to compute: the utility loss from waiting at the airport, and the expected value of the utility loss from maybe missing your plane. The loss from your waiting time is just 10 utils, as we assumed above. The expected loss from missing your flight is the probability of missing the flight times the utility loss from missing the flight. If you're at the airport an hour early, you have a 5% chance of missing the flight, and this would cost 50 utils. So, the expected loss is 5% × 50 = 2.5 utils. Putting those together, we get a total expected utility cost of 12.5 utils from showing up an hour early. Now, if you get to the airport two hours early, you lose 20 utils from your waiting time, but the expected loss from missing the plane is just 1% × 50 = 0.5, for a total expected loss of 20.5 utils. This is a much worse expected loss than getting to the airport an hour early. Even though the odds of missing your flight drop quite a bit, the extra time stuck in the airport creates a cost that outweighs the benefit of those reduced odds. You're better off taking that slightly higher risk of missing your flight. Of course, if you cut it too close, the risk of missing the flight can dominate. If you show up at the airport a half hour before your flight, you only lose 5 utils from waiting, but with a 20% chance of missing your flight, you get 20% × 50 = 10 utils of expected loss from the risk, giving a total expected loss of 15 utils, worse than showing up an hour early. This variation among expected utility losses indicates that there is some particular airport arrival time for which the risk of missing your flight and the misery of sitting in an airport bar balance out and you minimize your expected loss. Shannon Stapleton/ReutersNaturally, that exact time is going to vary from person to person, depending on each individual's idiosyncratic utility function. For example, I don't mind sitting around the airport and reading Twitter overly much, but I absolutely hate missing flights, so my ideal time to arrive at the airport might be earlier than someone who despises the airport but is fine with missing the occasional plane. Regardless of the exact amount of risk of missing a flight a person is willing to take, that risk will always be greater than zero. So, at your ideal, utility maximizing time, if you take enough flights, you should miss one sooner or later. If you haven't ever missed a plane, then you're likely not arriving at your ideal time.  As the economist George Sigler put it, as quoted in the book by Ellenberg, "If you never miss the plane, you're spending too much time at airports." This type of expected utility analysis is a foundational idea in economics. Many models are based on the idea of a person trying to maximize their utility. "How Not To Be Wrong" is full of interesting and weird mathematical tools and observations, and if you liked this, you should check it out. (Via News.com.au) FREE AppDownload
BIIThe market for traditional countertop payment terminals — from legacy companies like VeriFone and Ingencio — has supposedly been under serious threat from mobile card reader businesses like Square. But a new report from BI Intelligence finds that these predictions are overblown. Overall, the global market for traditional countertop payment terminals is healthy. We forecast payment terminal shipments will grow 73% in three years, increasing to 35 million in 2015.  The real storyline, though, is in the more granular look at the markets that will drive growth. The U.S. and Europe are stagnant, and all the dynamism is in emerging markets. This has big implications for the health of the top payment hardware companies because local competitors have big advantages in the fastest-growing markets.  In the report, BI Intelligence takes an in-depth look at the global payment terminal market. We examine which regions are driving growth and how market share is shaping up in different regions. We also take a look at the three ways mobile technology could eventually kill the legacy payment terminal and assess how big a threat mobile really poses.  Access the Full Report By Signing Up For A Free Trial Today &gt;&gt; Here are some of the key elements from the report:  In full, the report: For full access to all our charts, data, and analysis on the payments industry — including downloadable Excel files — sign up for a free trial. FREE AppDownload
Screenshot via CNBCMy friend Patrick O’Shaughnessy hit up a bunch of us financial blogger types for a quick list our five favorite investing books for a crowdsourced post he was doing (and also for his own curiosity, he was looking for something new to read). I obviously can’t make a comprehensive list of my favorite investing books and limit it to five, but I thought I could offer up five books that were a bit more obscure for most investors – you probably don’t need me to list books about Graham, Lynch, Buffett and Livermore. And then I included my own because given the thrust of Patrick’s blog – millennial investing – I figured I would do my part to keep his audience safe from the worst elements of the game. My list and rationale for each choice below, followed by an Amazon link if you want to buy yourself or someone else the gift of knowledge: 1. The Worldly Philosophers by Robert Heilbroner – a beautifully written classic and a great crash course on the history of economics and its colorful pioneers for people who didn’t study econ at school (like me). The Worldly Philosophers: The Lives, Times And Ideas Of The Great Economic Thinkers 2. Investing: The Last Liberal Art by Robert G. Hagstrom – demonstrates why the great investors are always knowledgeable about art, literature, science, history etc, not just markets. Investing: The Last Liberal Art 3. Backstage Wall Street by Joshua M. Brown – maybe the best book ever written about toxic investment products and Wall Street’s highly flawed approach to dealing with Main Street (I’m biased on this one) Backstage Wall Street 4. Irrational Exuberance (2nd Edition 2009) by Professor Robert J. Shiller – this is your desert island book about the nexus of human psychology and investing. If you only read one behavioral finance book, make it this one. Irrational Exuberance: (Second Edition) 5. Simple Wealth, Inevitable Wealth (Fifth Edition 2013) by Nick Murray – this is my bible. It’s the foundation of my entire approach to portfolio management and my long-term investing philosophy – it probably changed the course of my life and career. Visit NickMurray.com for purchase information. Now go ahead and check out the full list at Millennial Invest, including picks from my boys Meb Faber, Morgan Housel, Michael Kitces, Michael Batnick, and Ben Carlson: The Best Investing Books Ever (Millennial Invest) FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Ng Han GuanElon Musk says Tesla won't choose the final site for its first gigafactory until the end of the year. The gigafactory is an extraordinary ambitious venture to build lithium ion batteries at a size and scale that hasn't been done before. Tesla now plans to break ground at multiple potential gigafactory locations, with the goal of winnowing them down to one. Earlier, we'd reported that the groundbreaking itself was to be delayed.  “It might actually be three states that we do it in,” Musk said according to Bloomberg. “I would expect that we do a down-select for gigafactory 1 before the end of the year.” Last week, we discussed how the future of Tesla, along with its sister company SolarCity, depend on the success of the gigafactories: To bring down the cost of lithium ion batteries, the scale of their production must be increased by a whole order of magnitude than what currently exists. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Valentyn OgirenkoA fighter of Social Nationalist Assembly (SNA), part of ultra-nationalist Right Sector party, says farewell to his girlfriend before heading to Eastern Ukraine as part of the battalion "Azov" during a ceremony in their headquarters in Kiev June 3, 2014. U.S. auto sales completely annihilated everyone's expectations. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
screengrab via Bloomberg TVDuring a live broadcast Tuesday, former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg told one of his own media company's reporters she "should" get fired. Bloomberg turned to the topic after reflecting on his own firing from Salomon Brothers. The billionaire media mogul described the moment as a major turning point in his life and told Bloomberg Television anchor Stephanie Ruhle she would do well to follow his lead. "The only reason that I became an entrepreneur is that I got fired by Salomon Brothers. It should happen to you. Trust me, it works out," Bloomberg told Ruhle during an interview focusing on Goldman Sachs' "10,000 Small Businesses" initiative. However, Ruhle had no intention of taking his advice. "Well, I hope it doesn't happen to me," she replied, not pausing for a second. "Well, I have no intention of doing it. Don't worry about it," Bloomberg quickly added with a laugh. Watch below. The exchange begins at about one minute and 10 seconds into the clip.  FREE AppDownload
Lloyd Blankfein said that one important lesson he learned from the financial crisis is realizing what people are made of and what he's made of.  The Goldman Sachs CEO said that there were "manly men" and "world class athletes" that basically curled up in the fetal position during the downturn. "You learn that people and the loyalty that people have and work ethic that people have and the sense of belonging and ownership that people have is hugely important. And I think is a big takeaway with myself and people in this room is that you can't do things by yourself. You also learn in a crisis, what people are made of. There are people at Goldman that I work with—world class athletes, you know manly men, strong women...And when the crisis happened, people metaphorically curled up in a fetal position. We had people who worked for us who didn't look like they could climb a flight of stairs, but were very tough during the financial crisis." He continued that during he crisis, he learned a lot about himself and how he can handle difficult situations.  "The most important lesson...is you learn about other people and people learn how you act in a crisis, but you learn how you act in a crisis. It's very important to know who you can count on and who you can trust. The most important is you learn the stuff that you yourself is made of. That's what either erodes your confidence or creates greater confidence in yourself... If you've gotten through something that's really really hard, you're not going to be daunted the next time you face something that's really really hard. But if you crumbled, your knees are going to knock together."  So when it comes to business, you have to be tough. "You have to have thick skin. You don't buy a thick skin...It gets punctured. You realize what you're made of."  Blankfein is one of two remaining U.S. bank CEOs still at the helm following the 2008 crisis.  FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsMay was a huge month for auto sales. According to AutoData, the pace of sales jumped to an annualized rate of 16.8 million units, the fastest since February 2007. This smoked analysts' expectations for a 16.1 million level. Almost every major auto company blew away expectations handily. Chrysler said auto sales jumped 17% in May, beating expectations for a 14% increase. GM said sales surged 12.6%, crushing expectations for just 6.4% growth. Ford said sales unexpectedly climbed by 3.0%. Analysts were looking for a 0.2% decline. These sales results are just the latest in a series of economic indicators signaling a snapback in economic activity following the unusually harsh winter. Here's a tally of May sales stats: FREE AppDownload
via CorcoranBillionaire and philanthropist Jon Stryker has sold his stunning Palm Beach compound for $42.9 million, according to The Palm Beach Daily News.  It was reportedly purchased by Peter Wood, a British businessman. Stryker sold his Central Park West penthouse for $42 million earlier this year. The 2.6-acre estate consists of three separate properties, including one that belonged to Jimmy Buffett and his wife before they sold it to Stryker in 2010. The other two properties on the estate are a half-acre vacant lot and a recently restored 1920s-era home. According to the Daily News, it was the most expensive sale in swanky Palm Beach since last May, when radio personality Howard Stern paid a whopping $52 million for an oceanfront property. FREE AppDownload
CNBCNEW YORK (Reuters) - Activist investor Carl Icahn acquired about $51 million in the common shares of mortgage financiers Fannie Mae &lt;FNMA.OB&gt; and Freddie Mac &lt;FMCC.OB&gt; from mutual fund manager Fairholme Funds Inc in March, a court filing showed on Tuesday. Icahn, a billionaire investor known for taking big stakes in companies and pushing for management change, bought 6.8 million common shares of Fannie Mae and 5.7 million common shares of Freddie Mac from Fairholme, according to the filing with the U.S. Court of Federal Claims in Washington. Icahn is the latest high-profile investor to bet on the companies, which are operating under conservatorship while Congress considers an overhaul of the mortgage finance system. The companies own or guarantee about 60 percent of all U.S. home loans. Icahn was not immediately available for comment by phone. Activist investor Bill Ackman's Pershing Square hedge fund invested half a billion dollars to acquire stakes of nearly 10 percent each in Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, regulatory filings showed in November. Ackman said at an investment conference last month that shares of Fannie Mae could be worth as much as $47 a share. The companies' shares rose in the wake of reports of Icahn's purchases. Fannie Mae &lt;FNMA.OB&gt; shares last traded up 2.03 percent at $4.53 per share, while Freddie Mac &lt;FMCC.OB&gt; shares were last up 1.8 percent to trade at $4.52 per share. Regulators took control of Fannie and Freddie in 2008 after losses stemming from subprime mortgage investments pushed them to the brink of insolvency. The Senate is considering taking action to wind down the two taxpayer-owned companies, but the measure faces an uncertain future. Fannie and Freddie's newfound health has prompted some investors to snap up their stock in a bet the companies will be made private in the future. As of March 31, Fairholme owned a 1.65 percent stake in Fannie Mae and a 2.64 percent stake in Freddie Mac, according to Thomson Reuters data. Mutual fund manager Bruce Berkowitz is the founder of Fairholme Capital Management. Last year, Fairholme sued the U.S. government, claiming that changes to the bailout terms set for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac unlawfully impair shareholder value. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac posted profits of $5.3 billion and $4.0 billion respectively for the three months ended March 31. FREE AppDownload
Flickr/dombrasseySummer internship season is upon us once again. Wall Street, as a culture and as a career path, continues to be vilified and painted as an odious, unfulfilling, waste of time. But is that entirely fair? It may be true that Wall Street is no longer the default destination of our best, brightest, and most ambitious — this year, “only” 30% of Harvard seniors are heading to positions in finance or consulting, down from nearly 50% pre-crisis.The oft-satirical nature of @GSElevator aside, in terms of illuminating questionable or unsavory aspects of investment banking culture, an internship on Wall Street is still a phenomenal place to begin any career. These firms invest a significant amount of resources in developing and training prospective analysts, providing them with guidance and mentorship, and exposing them to some of the most aggressive, motivated, and intelligent people on the planet.Irrespective of what eventual career path you choose, there’s a lot to be said for cutting your teeth for a summer on Wall Street – if only for the experience of three well-paid months living in New York City.   Even if you want to end up in Silicon Valley, getting an offer from a Wall Street bank is a great tool to leverage and facilitate these opportunities. After all, there’s another important statistic. 30%.  That’s the number of Millennials who still live with their parents.  So, for the sake of your future, I have updated last year’s list to provide you with all the knowledge you need to turn any internship (not just on Wall Street) into a full-time position: 1. People love to talk about themselves, so ask questions that get them in their comfort zone. A big part of your first impression is how you make people feel about themselves. 2. If your boss smokes, smoke. 3. Keep your shoes shiny, but don’t let anyone see you having your shoes shined. You have to earn it. 4. Buy at least three decent suits. Keep it simple; if a suit has too much flair, the only thing people will notice is how often you wear it. 5. Forget about Wolf of Wall Street; double-breasted suits are not back. 6. Don’t wear Hermes ties. You have to earn it. 7. Don’t wear a tie unless you have to. And learn how to tie a decent Windsor knot. 8. Shut up about where you go to college. Decent credentials are a given. 9. As it relates to fellow interns, make no mistake about it – it’s war: 10. If you are exchanging “stock tips” with friends at other banks, use the app Cyber Dust (Mark Cuban’s text version of SnapChat). #NotSponsored 11. Show some leadership by organizing drinks and nights out with fellow interns; get them wasted, especially in the presence of senior colleagues. 12. Do the coffee runs. It shows confidence. Just don’t screw it up. If you can’t be trusted with coffee, how can you sell bonds or manage risk. 13. Sure, “be proactive” and “show initiative,” but don’t let that exuberance make someone else’s life harder in the process. 14. Leave a jacket on the back of your chair. While you are at it, keep a tie rolled up in your drawer.  15. Ask the secretary for the travel schedules of the senior members of the team for the week ahead. She thinks you are being proactive, but now you know when you can sleep in, hit the gym, or beat the traffic to the Hamptons. 16. Never tell the first [offensive] joke, but always have a good one saved up for when your seniors finally trust you enough to share one with you.  17. Don’t brag about being a decent golfer. This should be a given. 18. Don’t offer to buy drinks when out with your seniors; you can’t afford them and it won’t score any points. 19. Sleep with a fellow intern. If your seniors haven’t ever done it, they’ve always wanted to. They’ll respect you for it, and you’ll always be the guy that hit it first, before she ends up marrying that a-hole MD in Emerging Markets.  20. An MDs jokes are always funny. Period. And if you are at the receiving end of a joke, laugh with it. If you take yourself too seriously, no one else will. This is Wall Street; there is no such thing as ‘bullying’. 21. Acknowledge the Caddyshack and Fletch references, but don’t make any yourself.  You have to earn it.  And don’t initiate the fist bump that comes with “Charge it to the Underhills." 22. Let your boss sent the tempo when it comes to rowdy nights out.  Don’t be afraid to join in; just make sure you’re first one in the next morning. 23. It’s okay to make a mistake or ask a question. But don’t ever ask the same question or make the same mistake twice. If you do, just know that the world needs ditch diggers too. 24. If you still want to go to Silicon Valley, be my guest. But the grass is greener on the other side because it’s fertilized with bullsh*t. John LeFevre is the creator of the @GSElevator Twitter feed and the author of the soon-to-be-released Straight To Hell: True Tales of Deviance, Debauchery, and Billion-Dollar Deals.  He was also a summer intern for Salomon Brothers… and did receive the full-time job offer. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Faisal Al NasserBahraini Foreign Minister Sheikh Khaled bin Ahmed al-Khalifa (C) arrives to attend the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) meeting in Riyadh June 2, 2014.The American shale boom will begin to taper sometime in the mid-2020s, after which point the world will fall back to depending on the Middle East more than ever to meet energy needs, according to the International Energy Agency. But this time, the traditional Gulf players may not be ready to shoulder the burden. In its latest outlook, the IEA projects that while total spending on oil drilling will remain fairly constant (at $500 billion a year) through 2035, "there will be a noticeable shift in the location of this investment over the coming decades." That shift will be away from North America — where the most accessible plays will dry up and the expense required to extract unconventional oil will rise — and back toward traditional petro states, where the cost of extraction will remain relatively cheaper and the resource base more extensive.  "Gradual depletion of the most accessible reserves forces companies to move to develop more challenging fields," the agency says. "...Although offset in part by technology learning, this puts pressure on upstream costs and underpins an oil price that rises to reach $128/barrel in real terms by 2035." Here's the chart, showing 13% of the total upstream oil investment in OPEC countries of the Middle East accounts for a third of the new resources developed to 2035, whereas tight oil in North America accounts for 13% of investment but for just 6% of new resources. IEA "Meeting long-term oil demand growth depends increasingly on the Middle East, once the current rise in non-OPEC supply starts to run out of steam in the 2020s," the agency says. But the Middle East, in the form of OPEC, may miss its cue to jump in to the breach, the agency says, because the American boom has slowed oil price growth and diverted OPEC resources to non-traditional projects. As a result, spending on oil development among OPEC players will be constrained.  "The result would be tighter and more volatile oil markets, with an average price $15/barrel higher in 2025," the agency says. This outcome is not a total certainty. The IEA notes that the "learning" effect in North American drilling — whereby the longer a play is developed, the more efficient drilling in that play becomes — could extend beyond their original taper date.  And the fact that the price of oil will increase, on average, less than 1% a year to 2035 further shows the shale boom has created a huge cushion for the rest of the world.  But it looks like, one way or another, we'll be returning to the way things once were. FREE AppDownload
Julia La Roche for Business InsiderGoldman Sachs CEO Lloyd Blankfein and former NYC Mayor Michael BloombergGoldman Sachs CEO Lloyd Blankfein and former NYC Mayor Michael Bloomberg shared their first experiences on Wall Street during a luncheon at Bloomberg LP's headquarters.  Blankfein told alumni of the Goldman Sachs' 10,000 Small Businesses program about how he got rejected when he applied to Goldman.  "Well, I got into Goldman really by acquisition because I had gone— I grew up in east New York in the Linden Projects— I did go to fancy schools, but my résumé wasn't up to a Wall Street set of  résumés. I went to college. I went to law school and practiced for a while. Then, like a lot of people in that era, I wanted to get into finance...I applied to a number of  Wall Street firms, including Goldman Sachs and got turned down by all of them, and including Goldman Sachs. Which is why to this day, I admire the firm that I run today...But the only job I could get that kind of had, you know, related to Wall Street was J. Aron &amp; Company, which was a commodity trading firm, which on the prestige between equities and fixed income and commodities—commodities was just above a toaster compared to the other jobs. But I got a job there. And soon, that firm got acquired to Goldman Sachs. That's how I got into Goldman Sachs."  Bloomberg, who worked as an equities trader before launching a media empire, also shared his experience when applying to Wall Street. Unlike Blankfein, he got into Goldman.  "And just for the record, when I got out of school, instead of going to Vietnam, I applied to two firms — both offered me a job. Goldman was one of them. I turned them down and went to Solomon Brothers."  "Between Solomon Brothers and Vietnam?" Blankfein chimed in.  "Then I got fired in 1981—The best thing that ever happened to me," Bloomberg, who is now worth billions, said.  The pair of business titans gave a coaching session to alumni of the Goldman Sachs' 10,000 Small Businesses— a $500 million program that helps entrepreneurs get access to business education, financial capital and business support services. The event host was Charlie Rose.  FREE AppDownload
We wanted to feel what it was like to get punched in the face and thrown to the ground, so we went to Ronin Athletics. Owner Christian Montes put on the gloves and hit the mat with us. At Ronin Athletics, students learn the combat sports that make up Mixed Martial Arts including Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu, wrestling, boxing and Muay Thai. Check them out on Twitter and Facebook. Produced by Sam Rega. Follow BI Video: On Twitter
Since that was more than three times higher than any other NBA team had sold for and matched the price tag for the most expensive sports franchise sale in US history (the sale of the Los Angeles Dodgers in 2012), the bid raised questions about whether a sports franchise can be valued, how it is priced and whether there is an ego premium embedded in this particular offer. I am not a Clippers fan, but I love sports, and these questions not only deserve answers but have broader implications for valuing entertainment and media businesses. Much as we like to glorify the beauty of sports and praise it in its purest forms, it is increasingly a business. Like any business that is expected to generate profits and cash flows, it can be valued, based upon these expectations. My favorite sports team, the New York Yankees, was sold for $460,000 in 1914. At the time, it was a struggling franchise, with $20,000 in debt, and the new owners turned it around with two big investments: the storied acquisition of Babe Ruth from the Boston Red Sox for $100,000 and the construction of Yankee stadium for $3.1 million in 1923. In 1924, the Yankees reported EBITDA of $441,640 on revenues of $1.1 million, almost all of it generated from gate receipts. Until 1946, the revenues for the Yankees (and almost every other professional team in sports) came from the revenues generated at games from ticket sales, concessions and parking, with some supplementary revenue from radio broadcasts. In 1946, the Yankees became the first team to sign a local television contract, netting them $75,000 for the season. It is fitting that the Yankees owe their current status as one of the most valuable sports franchises in the United States to an updated local television contract, which generated more than $100 million in revenues for the team in 2012. The last two decades, in particular, have seen a shift in revenues from gate receipts to media right across sports, with the shift more pronounced in some sports than others and for some teams within each sport. In the table below, I break down total revenues in six sports — baseball (MLB), football (NFL), basketball (NBA), North American hockey (NHL), European soccer and Indian cricket (the IPL), using information from 2012: Musings on MarketsFor European soccer, I use only the top 20 firms in terms of value (according to Forbes). The IPL numbers are my best estimates, based on news stories. Of the six sports, baseball is the most dependent on gate receipts, perhaps because it has a 162-game schedule, and the NFL is least so. The IPL and the NFL are the two sports most dependent on media rights (TV and digital broadcasting), while European soccer gets a larger slice from sponsorship than do the other sports. (The fronts and backs of player uniforms are prime sponsorship territory in Europe, making it different from US professional sports where that is not the practice. The IPL follows the European model.) While broadcasting revenues are now a much biggest slice of the total revenue pie in every sports, the structure of revenue sharing varies across sports, with profound consequences for franchise value. The NFL and IPL have a shared revenue model where all teams get an equal share of the television broadcasting revenues of the sport, but the IPL keeps 40% of broadcasting revenues for itself (up from 20% in the first few years of the contract). Baseball, basketball and hockey all have mixed models, where the teams share equally in the national television contract revenues but are allowed to enter into and keep all or a large portion of the local contract revenues. Not surprisingly, this generates higher revenues for teams in larger media markets, with the New York Yankees generating media revenues ($158 million) in 2012-13, almost four times larger than the Seattle Mariners ($42 m), in baseball, and the Los Angeles Lakers ($150 million) drowning out the Oklahoma City Thunder ($20 million), in basketball. The biggest expense associated with running a sports franchise is player expenses, and it should come as no surprise that each of the sports has gone through turmoil (including strikes and shut downs) around controlling these expenses. Musings on MarketsPlayer expenses as % of Revenues IPL Player expenses based upon teams at salary cap of Rs 60 crores ($9 million) each. Players receive just over 50% of total revenues in the NFL and NBA, a little less in baseball and hockey and much less in soccer and cricket. Note that, with the IPL, there is little information at the franchise level, since many of the franchises are subsumed into much larger corporate organizations. How much have these ratios changed over time? With baseball, which is where we have the longest history, player expenses, as a percent of total revenues, jumped after free agency in 1974, peaked in the early 1990s and has been declining since: Musings on MarketsMLB: Player Expenses as % of Revenues. Since this is the statistic that most fights between players and owners have fought over (and have had strikes over), it is controversial. Note that the expenses in major league baseball peaked in 1994, just before the longest strike in baseball history, and have fallen since. In 2010, the NFL shutdown was predicated on both what this statistic was (with owners and players using different base numbers) and on what it should be in the future. In the final agreement, the owners agreed to give the players 55 percent of national media revenue, 45 percent of all NFL Ventures revenue, and 40 percent of local club revenue. There are a host of other expenses that are of less import but aggregate to take a big bite out of income. These include team expenses (associated with the logistics of transporting and accommodating the team), player development costs and stadium maintenance expenses. In many sports, the richest teams also pay luxury taxes that can add substantially to their expenses, with the amount of the tax tied to how much their player payrolls exceed league caps. Given the paucity of financial information from sports teams Forbes does a good job of estimating the EBITDA of these franchises (though it does bother me, from a semantics standpoint, that they call it operating income). In the table below, I list the EBITDA values and EBITDA margins, by sport, as well as the percentage of teams in each sport that reported negative EBITDA in the most recent time period. Musings on MarketsRevenues and EBITDA — Most recent year. European soccer, the NFL and the NBA are the most profitable sports, with baseball bringing up the rear. Again, the absence of stand-alone information on IPL teams makes it difficult to measure how profitable these franchises are to their owners. While the IPL as a league overall looks like it generates a profit, the league takes a disproportionate share of these profits (40% of broadcasting revenues, 20% of gate receipts) and keeps it for itself. Since the IPL is more a political body than a business entity, the potential for mischief and corruption is huge. There are a host of reasons why we should be cautious about the reported earnings at all of these franchises. The first is that sports franchise accounting is an art form, with the wild card being "bad" player contracts, and the way they are written off or amortized can have profound consequences for reported profitability. The second is that most of these sports franchises are privately owned and tax considerations can lead to systematic understatement of income. The third is that critics have long argued, with some basis, that teams over state their expenses, so that they can plead poverty, either to extract larger subsidies from the cities in which they play or to put caps on player compensation, in collective bargaining agreements. How much risk is there in investing in or owning a professional sports team? While you can make a laundry list of potential risks, the best way to assess these risks is not by looking at anecdotal evidence on individual teams but at the collective performance of sports franchises over their history. The challenge that you face is that most of these teams are privately held, transactions are too infrequent for conventional risk measures and accounting earnings numbers are either unreliable or unavailable over long periods. While beta may not be the best measure of risk when valuing sports franchises for private sale, we can use traded franchises (which are primarily European soccer teams) to get a risk profile for these investments: Musings on MarketsBetas estimated against local indices, using 5 years of monthly data: May 2009-May 14. Based on these traded franchises, it seems reasonable to conclude that sporting teams tend to be below average risk.To get a broader measure of the risk in these investments, we looked at the operating data of each sport. The consensus view seems to be that professional sports is recession proof and that neither attendance nor aggregate revenues are affected much by the economic environment. We have information on aggregate revenues at each sport going back in time and can measure how responsive these revenues have been to macroeconomic variables. Musings on Markets Correlation of annual revenue growth at sport with macroeconomic variables: 1990-2012 T statistics in brackets under correlations. Looking at the correlations, the statement that sports franchise revenues are unaffected by macroeconomic factors seems to be mostly true, with a few caveats. First, while the correlation between annual revenue changes and real GDP growth is low and not statistically significant in any of the three sports that I was able to get historical data for, some sports seem more recession proof than others. In particular, the NFL seems to be the most recession-resistant sport (at least during this period), with a lower correlation with real GDP growth than either MLB or the NBA. Second, some streams of revenues. within each sport, are less affected than others (television revenues are usually contracted for long periods and are immune from recessionary pressures but luxury box sales may be more sensitive to economic conditions). It stands to reason, therefore, that the European soccer clubs and IPL teams will share the recession-resistance of the NFL, since all three sports derive the bulk of their revenues from media rights. Overall, though, the risk of investing in a sports franchise is low and market indicators from the few sports teams that trade seems to back up this proposition.There is also the question of how much debt these franchises carry. While the conventional debt load is low, at least on average, at all of the sports, that understates the true financial leverage, since many player contracts offer guaranteed money over long periods. Capitalizing these player contracts, as I did in this post for the New York Yankees in 2009, dramatically increases the financial leverage at these teams and with it, the risk. We may be guilty of survivor bias in our focus on the MLB, NBA, NFL and NHL, all of which have survived multiple scares during their lives. The list of professional sports leagues that have failed is long, and while the risk of failure may be small, it is not non-existent. The other risk that we are not factoring in is on the legal front, which can manifest itself in multiple ways. For instance, the growth and profitability of the MLB can be traced, at least in part, to the fact that it has been granted a special exemption from antitrust laws, and removing that exception could have disastrous effects on franchise value. With the NFL, the recent spate of publicity about head injuries and long term brain damage to players may very lead up to a class-action lawsuit with the potential to bankrupt even this most powerful of sports leagues. With that long lead in, we are in position to value a sports franchise, and in keeping with the news story that initiated this article, I will try to value the Los Angeles Clippers. In doing this valuation, I will make a couple of simplifying assumptions, which you are welcome to change. Given the risk discussion in the last section, I will attach a cost of capital of 7.50% for investing in the Clippers, at about 25th percentile of all US firms. I will also assume that once I reassess the numbers for the Clippers, given my expectations of changes (in TV contracts, revenues and costs), the cash flows will grow at roughly 2.5% a year in perpetuity. Finally, I will assume that with the NBA's protection from competition in place, the Clippers will be able to generate a 25% return on capital on their investments (which will allow them to generate the 2.5% growth with a 10% reinvestment rate). Musings on MarketsIntrinsic Valuation of Clippers: Actual, Median, Laker-like & Best Case. In this table, I value the Clippers, first using their 2012 numbers (which I know are too low), next using the median revenues and EBITDA margin for an NBA team, then giving the the revenues and margins of their more lucrative neighbor in the city (Los Angeles Lakers), and finally with a combination (best-best) of the league's highest revenues (which belong to the Lakers), the best pre-player expense margins in the business (Knicks) and the lowest payroll of any team in the sport (the Utah Jazz). Even with this improbable mix, the value that I estimate for the Clippers is $1.61 billion, well below the $2 billion paid by Mr. Ballmer. You are welcome to download the spreadsheet, which has in it the key numbers, by team, for all NBA teams and do your own assessment. In keeping with the recent posts I have had about the divide between the value of an asset and its pricing, it is worth examining how sports franchises are priced. In fact, that is the reason why I did not talk about the well-publicized Forbes valuations of sports teams, even though I did use the raw data that they so helpfully provide on individual teams. The Forbes valuations are really franchise prices that they estimate based on the most recent transaction prices in each sport. You can see the latest Forbes value estimates for teams in five of the six sports in this link. They are rigorously done, but they don't pass the valuation test. As we noted earlier, most sports franchises are privately held and are not traded. The exceptions tend to be European soccer firms, where there are about a dozen that are traded primarily on mainland Europe. In the table below, we list the values attached by the market to these teams, both in terms of equity value and enterprise value, and relate these values to operating measures for each team: Musings on MarketsRevenues are from year of transaction. NA= Not available. At the outset, it is worth noting that many of these firms are in poor financial health, with negative earnings and high debt ratios. With that concern in mind, we still computed multiples of revenues and earnings, and concluded that the median sport franchise, at least in European soccer, trades at about 2.13 times revenues and 9.31 times EBITDA. While the median PE ratio is 22.7, note that almost half the sample has negative net income. While sports franchises are privately held, there are transactions that occur, albeit infrequently, where a team or a portion of a team is sold. It is difficult to compare transactions prices over time and across franchises, partly because they have to be inflation adjusted (which is easy to do) but more because the revenues and earnings potential for franchises change over time. The best way to control for this is to convert the transaction prices into multiples of levels of operating variables at the time of the transaction. In the table below, I list the current owner of each NBA franchise, the prices paid to acquire the franchise, the revenues of the franchise in the acquisition year and the resulting revenue multiple. Musings on MarketsRevenues are from year of transaction. NA= Not available Looking across all 30 teams, the median multiple at which a franchise has traded at historically is 3.30. It is worth nothing that the two most recent transactions, the sale of the Sacramento Kings in 2013 and the Milwaukee Bucks in 2014, were the first to occur at more than five times revenues. While the history of franchise sales in the NBA is limited by the fact that the league has a shorter history, the history of franchise sales in major league baseball go back more than a hundred years. Using information partly from Michael Haupert's excellent treatise on the economic history of major league baseball and partly from public records, I show the change in franchise values for MLB franchises over the decades in the table below, as well as some the more recent transactions involving MLB teams, scaled to the revenues of these teams at the time of the transactions: Musings on MarketsFranchise values from 1910-1999 from Haupert, rest from public information. It goes without saying that a long term owner of a baseball franchise has been rewarded richly for the investment, but the increase in value for much of the last three decades can be attributed to increases in revenues, rather than a surge in the multiple of revenues that buyers are willing to pay. For much of the last three decades, buyers have been willing to pay about 3 times revenues for a baseball franchise, with the sale of the Los Angeles Dodgers for $ 2 billion (more than 6 times revenues) representing the outlier. Completing the story with the NFL, the table below lists transactions involving NFL teams, with revenues from the year of the transaction and multiples paid on each one. Musings on MarketsRevenues are from year of transaction. NA= Not available. On average, NFL franchises have sold for higher multiples of revenues than either NBA or MLB franchises, trading at just over four times revenues, though the recent surge in NBA valuations may have put that league ahead right now. Looking across the sports, there is a pattern that emerges, with NFL and NBA franchises historically being priced at the highest multiples of revenues (about four times) though the NBA's recent surge may have given it the lead. Major league baseball brings up the rear, with franchises typically selling for three times revenues, and that ranking is consistent with the profitability margins we reported in the last section; the NBA had a median EBITDA margin of 11.29%, the NFL was close behind at 10.93% and baseball had the lowest EBITDA margin at 2.71%. With this information on how investors/buyers have priced franchises in hand, I tried to price the Clippers using a rudimentary combination of variables: the annual revenues of the franchise and a multiple of revenues gleaned from the historical transactions: Musings on MarketsEV/Sales from NBA transactions in last 20 years. As with the intrinsic valuations, it is difficult to justify a $2 billion price tag on the Clippers, even with assumptions that stretch credibility. You can download this spreadsheet as well and see if you can derive your own price. There may be more fanciful multiples that deliver a price closer to $2 billion. For instance, you could divide the transaction prices by the population of the metro area served by the team and then scale this up to reflect the larger LA media market. Thus, taking the $550 million that was paid recently for Milwaukee which has a media market one tenth the size of the LA media market, and assuming a 50:50 split of the LA market with the Lakers, you would arrive at a value of $2.75 billion for the Clippers. Go figure! We may be spinning our wheels, trying to find rational (and financial) explanations for why Steve Ballmer paid the price that he did, when the answer may be much simpler. He has really wanted to own an NBA team, especially one in a glamorous media market. Last year, he was thwarted in his bid to buy the Sacramento Kings and this time, it looks like he is leaving nothing to chance. In effect, he is paying an premium over even the most optimistic value or price assessment for the team, to have an expensive play toy. How expensive? Given the media revenue potential of the Los Angeles market and the global growth of the NBA, I would be hard pressed to attach a value (or a price) of more than $1.2 billion for the Clippers, leaving me with an 800 million-dollar toy. While that would be well beyond the reach of even a regular billionaire, it is affordable to a man who is worth $20 billion. Looking at the ownership lists of the six franchises, the trend towards multibillionaire owners is more pronounced in some leagues than others. Of the top 20 European soccer teams, about a third have been acquired by billionaires who either made their wealth elsewhere or inherited it. Among US professional sports leagues, the NBA leads the list, with about a quarter of the firms in the hands of wealthy toy-seekers. As a fan, I will never be wealthy enough to be able to spend a few billions to buy my favorite team, but I don't begrudge someone who does, especially if he or she acts in a way to make my team a winner. If it troubles you to see your favorite team become a plaything, you should be far more horrified if you are a fan of an IPL team. The wealthy individuals who own IPL teams do so through publicly traded corporations that they control, thus using stockholder money in these firms to advance a personal interest. The opacity on both the governance and the financials, both at the franchise level and the league level, is troubling, making it difficult to pass judgment on the financial well being of the league and may be contributing to self-dealing and potentially illegal activity. I would hasten to add that while the desire to acquire glamorous assets and pay ego premiums may be clearly visible in sports franchise acquisitions, they are not restricted to them. In my post on acquisitions little over a year ago, I drew attention to the hubris hypothesis for acquisition premiums, relating them to ego and pride. If Steve Ballmer is over paying for the Clippers, he is at least over paying with his own money. When as CEO of Microsoft, he paid $8.5 billion for Skype, it was Microsoft stockholders who were put at risk from over payment. FREE AppDownload
Getty ImagesArgentina is really trying to show the world that it's making good on its debts lately, but a memo leaked on an Argentine blog last week could negate every last show of faith, according to Reuters. That's because the memo suggests that perhaps the country isn't eager to pay off all of its creditors. It all comes down to what the Supreme Court thinks next week, in a decision that could send the ailing country into default (worst-case scenario). Here's the backstory: Since Argentina's economic crash in 2001, the country has been a pariah of the international financial community. Now it is facing the consequences of its isolation — it's running out of cash. The head of its Central Bank says dollar reserves are now at $28.5 billion. These are dire straights, so Argentina is running around paying debts left and right. For example, it just cleared $9.7 billion worth of arrears it owes The Paris Club last week. A memo leaked out around the same time, however, is casting doubt on the country's sincerity in terms of one key matter — its ongoing court case against U.S. hedge fund managers who refuse to restructure $1.3 billion of debt dating back to 2001. To observers, this case embodies the ideological intransigence of President Cristina Fernandez's regime. Argentina has said over and over that it will not pay these "vulture" hedge fund managers, which has annoyed U.S. judges to no end. The recently leaked memo reaffirms that sentiment. It's a plan from Argentina's lawyers, including Carmine Boccuzzi of Cleary Gottlieb Steen &amp; Hamilton, which outlines how it could still evade paying back the $1.3 billion by going into default and then restructuring outside the country. "There is no secret plan to evade," Boccuzzi said in response to questions about the memo. He went on to maintain that default would be catastrophic for the country and is still a situation no one wants to see. This non-plan would only need to go into action if  the Supreme Court decides, on June 12, that it will not hear Argentina's case. If not, a lower court ruling by New York Judge Thomas Griesa stands — and he put the absolute smack down on Argentina. At the end of 2012, Griesa decided that Argentina should pay the hedge fund managers — including billionaire Paul Singer, who had an Argentine naval vessel impounded in Ghana for collateral (and kicks, we think). In order to comply with the terms of the Injunctions, Argentina must pay plaintiffs 100% of that $1.33 billion concurrently with or in advance of the payments on the Exchange Bonds. . .These provisions [of the Injunctions] properly start with the fact that if 100% of what is currently due to the exchange bondholders is paid, then 100% of what is currently due to plaintiffs must also be paid. . . But the fact is that the amount owed to plaintiffs by Argentina is the accelerated principal plus accrued interest. Argentina owes this and owes it now. The amount, $1.3 billion, is doable for Argentina, but it's not about the money, it's about the intractability of the Argentine government. And that doesn't just go for the country's political ideologues; investors want to see that Argentina can play by a set of rules.  If it can't play by the rules, investors won't play with Argentina at all. This became particularly clear in May. Argentina announced that Buenos Aires would issue $500 million of bonds for the first time in three years. Before it could sell anything though — and even after it had made nice with the Paris Club — the auction was called off, says Reuters. Interest rates were simply too high at 13.5%. Now imagine what could happen to those costs if the Supreme Court kicks Argentina to the curb. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Max Rossi 2014 was supposed to be the year that the economy finally broke out of its subpar, post-crisis pace of growth. But the first few months of the year were a big disappointment, and in fact Q1 GDP was decidedly negative. Of course, the economic bulls had an excuse for this: Weather. It was well known that there was an unusual amount of cold and snow at the start of the year, and that kind of weather keeps people home. So this spring became a moment of truth for the economy. If the data stayed bad through spring, that meant there was something more deeply wrong with the economy beyond the weather. If spring was strong, then it meant the Q1 weakness was all about the weather and that the notion of a breakout in the economy was still plausible. Well, spring is here. And the economic snapback has arrived. The data out just today couldn't be more clear. Every major automaker that sells in the U.S. market today said that May sales came in way better than expected. Consumers are feeling increasingly optimistic. Both Hamilton Place Strategies and Gallup said in their regular tracking survey of consumers that optimism has hit its highest level of the year. Meanwhile, direct surveys of retail spending show the highest pace of activity since last year. #Redbook #retailsales are tracking 3.8% y/y in May-highest since Nov 2013 and #ICSC chain-store sales are up 2.7% y/y-best since Jan 2013 Morgan Stanley says there was a huge surge in its business conditions survey. Morgan Stanley So the spring economic snapback is here, as the economy unburdens itself from the terrible weather. Of course this doesn't end the debate. The strong May conditions could be temporary gains and simply the result of some pent-up demand. And it might all fade again. But the economy just passed at least one test, bouncing back from the horrible weather, proving that the bad numbers we saw in Q1 were indeed temporary. FREE AppDownload
Labor is not really a commodity, though labor power is bought and sold.  People are not commodities and the abstraction leads to confusion.   In practice, a higher minimum wage does not always produce higher unemployment.  Back in April, we posted a short blog about San Jose's experience.   There Great Graphic here was tweeted by Stephanie Kelton.   It provides another exception to the conventional wisdom.  At the start of last year, Washington raised its minimum wage to the highest in the US.   As the chart shows, the unemployment rate has trended lower.  This, of course, will not settle the debate.  However, the continued accumulation of examples that run counter to the prevailing economic theory, may embolden others to minimum wage hikes.  Eventually, along the lines of Thomas Kuhn, lead to changes in the dominant paradigm.           Read more posts on Marc to Market » FREE AppDownload
Bitcoin prices have climbed 47% in the past two weeks, now clocking in at $664.58 on Coindesk. "Generally speaking, lots of good news, no bad news and very strong technicals from a trading perspective," SecondMarket's Barry Silbert said in email of the melt up. Among likely drivers, he said, were DISH's announcement that subscribers could pay their TV bills in Bitcoin, making it the largest firm by market cap to accept the digital currency; Apple's apparent decision to welcome back Bitcoin wallet apps; and bullishness surrounding recent investments in Bitcoin firms like BitPay, which just raised $30 million. It also may simply be what has now emerged as a standard Bitcoin trading pattern — "bubble, correction, consolidation, price increase; rinse and repeat," Silbert said. It's always important to take Bitcoin price movements with a grain of salt — over the course of two weeks this past spring, for instance, prices fell 37% to $360. There remain a host of vulnerabilities out there that could derail the rally. But for now the trend is clear. Here's the chart: Coindesk FREE AppDownload
We all send body language cues based on how we feel and what we think, here's how to decipher them quickly and in any situation. Sources: Smile, Eyebrows, Mirroring, Eye Contact,  Crossed Legs, Brow, Crossed Arms Produced by Matt Johnston. Illustrations by Mike Nudelman. Follow BI Video: On Twitter
19slocumroad.comThe Colonial-style mansion that briefly belonged to Charles Ponzi, the guy who originated the "ponzi scheme," is on the market for $3.3 million, William Alden of the New York Times reports. The Lexington, Massachusetts home was where Ponzi resided right before his infamous investment scheme collapsed in 1920.  The Italian immigrant, who promised outrageous returns, swindled his investors by paying the earliest ones with incoming money from later investors. Eventually, his scheme collapsed and he was arrested and sentenced to prison. His former home is definitely picturesque. Now we're going to take a tour.  FREE AppDownload
Summer vacation isn't what it used to be. A recent  research note from Deutsche Bank's Carl Riccadonna points out that gas prices are not following their normal seasonal behavior. Usually, prices sharply rise through the first few months of the year, reaching a high plateau during the summer when demand peaks. But, as this chart from the note shows, while gas prices are rising, they are doing so at a much slower rate than they have in the past. The chart shows both the historical trend of prices rising about 25% from January to May, and the current 2014 increase of about 12%. Riccadonna observes that if gas prices stay leveled out through the summer, it could provide a boon to consumers: "If prices fall shy of this peak, then reduced motor fuel expenses could provide households with extra disposable income for other discretionary spending categories." Deutsche Bank FREE AppDownload
Going to work and collecting paychecks isn't the only way to make money in America. "Since 1980, direct labor income has become a smaller share of personal income, while income from transfers has risen," write Wells Fargo economists John Silvia and Sarah Watt House. "This mix may help to stabilize consumption but also reflects altered incentives to work." Wages and salary continue to be primary source of income, but have fallen from 59% of personal income in 1980 to just 51% today. Silvia and House identify three reasons why this is happening: Silvia and House note that unfavorable labor market dynamics are also a factor. "We suspect this is a product of both demand and supply forces," they write. "On the demand side, firms have been cautious to hire given the modest and uncertain gains in final demand. In addition, as global markets continue to expand, firms are increasing their hiring abroad to serve markets there. On the supply side, the availability of transfer payments and mandated benefits have increased the reservation wage for many workers and lowered the cost of additional leisure. Moreover, an excess supply of labor relative to demand has kept wage growth muted. restraining labor income even as hiring has improved." Whatever the reasons, it's very clear that labor is playing a smaller role in the average personal income statement. Wells Fargo Securities FREE AppDownload
Rennett Stowe/flickr Barclays recently downgraded the entire U.S. electric utilities sector to "underweight" on the threat posed by widespread adoption of solar-storage. These systems allow homeowners to use rooftop solar panels and a battery to cut all but the figurative emergency backup cord to their local electric grid, putting a severe strain on an industry that has been a defacto monopoly.  The firm's sweeping case focused in large part on debt markets' apparent ignorance to challenge utilities are facing. We wanted to zero in on the astonishingly simple steps that makes Barclays lays out to make shaking up utilities quite possible. For the past few years, we have been quietly living through a stunning drop in prices thanks to an unintended loop of massive European subsidies and capacity overexpansion in China. As a result, from 2006 to 2013, photovoltaic panel prices dropped nearly 70%. Barclays The next step is for storage prices to fall too. Cheap storage is key so that people can have power at night, when the sun is down. Right now, the cost of such systems — about $0.22/kWh is only competitive with retail electricity in Hawaii — the cost of vanilla electricity in California is $0.15/kWh. Barclays says Tesla has single-handedly brought down the cost of batteries over the past few years, from about $1,000/kWh in 2009 to $300/kWh in early 2014. If the company's gigafactory successfully ramps up, costs could plummet.  Once the prices for everything get cheap enough, homeowners begin to leave the grid. There remains huge demand for solar, and as costs continue to fall, the price point will continue to match that sought by ever lighter hued green thumbs. This expanding scale will in turn make it more expensive to stay on the grid, bringing even more customers into the solar-storage orbit.  "...Once solar + battery approaches the retail cost of power, its advantage can scale quickly," Barclays says.  We've already seen this in Arizona, where the state's electric utility has spent more than $3 million on a campaign to discourage solar adoption in the state. California utilities also won new surcharges, and SolarCity recently charged them with slow-walking grid connections. Neither will prove more than speedbumps in the long-run, Barclays said. "While they may slow the penetration of solar, any relief they offer utilities is likely to be short lived. In Arizona, the fee increases the cost of a rooftop solar installation about 5%. With the costs of solar installations falling about 10% per year, we expect the pace of installations to recover before the end of 2014. While we need more months of data to confirm our view, this may prove to be an example of how quickly the technological/cost curve can overtake regulatory responses."  As demand for baseload generation becomes less consistent, utilities could be forced to replace aging power units earlier than scheduled with more modern and efficient "peakers." This could end up lowering utility margins, as well as bring forward cost loads.   This is the key moment: Utility companies being forced to upgrade their plants in the face of a declining customer base. That's a killer combination.  In Germany, aggressive subsidies and a move away from nuclear led to an explosion of renewables expansion. Since the beginning of 2010 (though for reasons that go beyond simply that outgrowth), Germany’s two largest utilities had stock price declines of 55-60%, compared with a near 60% gain in the DAX.  FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia Commons/ QuereusMark Spitznagel Writer Eric Spitznagel, the brother of hedge fund manager Mark Spitznagel, had a fascinating essay in the New York Times Magazine this weekend about what it's like being middle class and having an ultra-wealthy brother.  Mark Spitznagel, founder of hedge fund Universa Investments, is known for his negative predictions about the market. He made a killing betting things would go south in 2008. In the essay, Eric shared an anecdote about how he was wearing their late-father's $50 Timex stainless-steel Timex watch and how Mark tried to buy it off him. Eric refused to sell the watch no matter what price was offered. Instead, the middle-aged men ended up wrestling for the sentimental timepiece.  From NYTimes Magazine:  If you have a brother, nothing about this will seem unusual. This is how brothers interact. It’s how all major and minor disagreements are settled. Or at least it is among brothers who are between the ages of 2 and 18. But Mark and I are in our 40s. And one of us has a private tai chi instructor on retainer. (Spoiler: It’s not me.) In 2002, Malcolm Gladwell wrote a New Yorker profile on Nassim Nicholas Taleb — Mark’s one-time partner at the firm Empirica Capital — that claimed Mark “exudes a certain laconic levelheadedness.” I wonder if Gladwell would still agree with his assessment if he saw my brother and me wrestling across Mark’s Bel Air backyard at 2 a.m., sweaty and grunting, Mark howling, “Give me the watch, monkeyboy!” They ended the match with no clear victor. Eric kept the watch.  It didn't end there, though. Eric writes that they grew closer by taunting each other over their prized possessions that belonged to their father. In another instance, they ended up arguing for their father's old moldy teddy bear.  Check out the full essay (long but worth the read) here&gt; FREE AppDownload
AP PhotoA world famous golfer, a mysterious sports gambler, and an American billionaire investor known for saying whatever he wants to say, whenever he wants to say it. Putting them all together in an insider scandal should be part "Wolf of Wall Street," part "Ocean's Eleven," headline gold. Too bad it isn't proving to be a great criminal case at all. At best, the whole story seems like a stock geek's game of telephone gone wrong. On Friday, the Wall Street Journal reported that three years ago investor Carl Icahn may have told legendary sports gambler Billy Walters that he was making a play for Clorox. Walters, then, allegedly told Mickelson. According to the SEC and the FBI, both the gambler and the golfer made similar bets on Clorox at the time. Now that the case is out, though, it seems that the Feds can't use wiretaps to dig up more dirt. That's an issue going forward, as all three men have denied wrongdoing and the Feds have yet to accuse them of any either. Over at the New York Post, Charlie Gasparino points out two reasons why we might not see any formal accusations going forward with the evidence the Feds have now. First, Icahn is an activist investor, and for him the rules of insider trading are murky. It seems the comments Icahn allegedly made to Walters weren't specific enough to be classified as inside information — they didn't include a tender offer for Clorox, for example. Second, Gasparino points out that insider trading is an exchange. Mickelson and Walters would have had to reward Icahn for his comments to fulfill the two-way nature of the crime. Since Icahn is one of the richest men in the world, it's hard to think Mickelson and Walters could have paid him enough money to make a difference to him. That is unless Icahn, now 78, plans to retire and work on his handicap. (FYI- retirement sounds like Carl Icahn's own personal worst nightmare.) So for now let the speculation fly. You have to wonder who leaked this story to the WSJ and why, no? All these men definitely have enemies. By Forbes' calculations, Icahn lost $420 million on Friday. Not a lot of money to him and his empire — but just about as much as he claims to have made on his long Herbalife bet. Enough to notice. What everyone else is noticing in this rigmarole is that the Feds have dedicated years to this case and haven't charged anyone. Meanwhile, questions from the financial crisis go unanswered while the crisis' repercussions are still felt. Yet this is the file they're on.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Adam Fenster Factory orders climbed 0.7% in April. Expectations were for a gain of 0.5%, down from a revised 1.5% prior. Ex-transportation, orders climbed 0.5%.  Core capex declined 1.2%. Automobile orders are down more than 14% YTD. Full table: Census Full release »   FREE AppDownload
Societe Generale is out with its famous quarterly black swan chart. Black swan events are those that have a low probability of occurring, but also have the potential to roil financial markets if they occur. With a 30% probability, a Chinese hard landing (four straight quarters of below 5% growth) poses the most significant downside risk, according to SocGen. They think the likely triggers will be domestic issues. "This, however, is not the case for several other emerging market economies where financial integration has delivered several benefits, but also leaves these markets vulnerable to a US Treasury markets selloff." "To our minds, markets may be placing too much confidence in central bank “puts”. Indeed, we believe that in the vent of downside risks appearing in the US, the hurdle for new QE is high as the Fed clearly sees both benefits and costs to this policy. Common to all the major central banks are new responsibilities on financial stability, and surveillance of leverage has clearly increased. In the euro area, the visible political divide leaves the region vulnerable in the event of new shocks. Finally, geopolitical risks merit on- going attention." Meanwhile, the biggest upside risk comes from "faster-than-expected credit expansion" in all regions. Societe Generale
FREE AppDownload
Here's two datapoints that are worth watching, which both suggest that the US consumer is vigorously coming out of its Winter doldrums. The top one is from Hamilton Place Strategies. The second is from Gallup. They both say the same thing, that we're seeing confidence among survey respondents at the highest levels of the year. Hamilton Place Strategies Gallup Oh, and here's more. #Redbook #retailsales are tracking 3.8% y/y in May-highest since Nov 2013 and #ICSC chain-store sales are up 2.7% y/y-best since Jan 2013 FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Goldman SachsThe debate over the sustainability of record high profit margins rages on. Reacting to last week's BEA report showing a drop in Q1 corporate profits, Societe Generale's Albert Edwards writes that "the US profits margin cycle has begun to turn down at long last." Not so fast, argues Goldman Sachs. "We think it is premature to call the Q1 decline a turning point for three reasons," writes Goldman economist David Mericle. "First, most of the decline in the national accounts measure of corporate profits arose from the BEA's adjustment for the expiration of bonus depreciation, a somewhat uncertain procedure. Second, weak growth and productivity in Q1 likely weighed on profits, but should strengthen going forward. Third, wage growth has shown little evidence of a pick-up and remains well below the rate that would consistently detract from margins. We instead expect margins to rise a touch this year and next." Mericle believes that high profit margins will help contribute to stronger investment spending by businesses. Here's a look at Goldman's S&amp;P 500 profit margin forecast via its equity strategy department. Goldman Sachs FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's BlogComplacency has also benefitted bond and stock markets in emerging economies. Recent weeks have seen government bond yields falling in many of them, including Brazil, India, Indonesia, Mexico, and Turkey. The EM MSCI stock price index (in US dollars) is up 12.1% from its recent low on February 5, and 2.5% ytd. It is back to its level just prior to the taper tantrum. The Fragile Five have morphed into the Fab Five since March as both their currencies and stock price indexes (in dollars) rebounded. Our Stay Home investment theme is back on top over Go Global on a year-to-date basis. Here’s the MSCI performance derby in dollars since the end of last year: US (4.0%), EMU (3.7), All Country World (3.2), EM (2.5), All Country World ex-US (2.4), BRIC (-0.4), Japan (-4.1), and China (-4.3). The top five MSCI are all for EMs: Turkey (21.6), Indonesia (21.0), India (18.2), Israel (17.0), and Philippines (16.3). This confirms my position that while EMs should underperform this year, some of them could outperform, but you have to pick the right ones. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Fretting About Complacency. (1) Nothing to fear, but nothing to fear, again. (2) Corrections are MIA. (3) Complacent indicators. (4) Dudley is nervous. (5) Minsky’s moments are mostly geopolitical for the moment. (6) Stocks love Obama’s foreign policy. (7) Bond Vigilantes, Zombies, and Vivants. (8) George, Lacker, &amp; Plosser are trigger-happy. (9) The ECB will lead the way until Thursday. (10) Urge to emerge. (11) Stay Home outperforming Go Global again. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
A messy desk boosts creative thinking while a clean desk promotes order and overall better decision-making, says a study published in Psychological Science. Improve your space and become more efficient at work with these office hacks below. Produced by Will Wei. Originally published in September 2013. Follow BI Video: On Twitter
REUTERS/USDA APHIS/Justin Stevenson/HandoutFeral swine (front) are pictured in this undated handout from the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service. CHICKASAW Ohio (Reuters) - Swine veterinarian Bill Minton thought the baby pigs dying at a farm in western Ohio had a bad case of gastro-enteritis and was stumped when lab results came back with no indication of what had killed them. It took nearly 30 days – and hundreds more pigs dying in five other states - for Minton to learn the farm was ground zero for a virulent, fast-spreading virus that had never been seen before in the United States. A year later, the disease, called Porcine Epidemic Diarrhea virus (PEDv), has wiped out an estimated 10 percent of the U.S. pig population, helped push pork prices to record highs, and raised questions about U.S. oversight of the livestock industry and measures designed to protect the nation's food supply. The U.S. Department of Agriculture still has no clear idea about how PEDv entered the United States. With each passing day, veterinarians, hog producers and meat processors fear that other diseases may be finding the same pathway that allowed in PEDv. "I know that people are concerned about the pathways and feel like we haven't done enough," John Clifford, the USDA's chief veterinary officer, told Reuters. "It's hard. It's like looking for a needle in a haystack." Veterinarians have criticized the USDA for waiting a year to require farmers to report outbreaks to the government. The agency still has not laid out guidelines for compliance with the new requirement. Clifford noted the agency at first deferred to international standards, which do not require mandatory reporting of PEDv cases. He declined to comment on when Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack will lay out details of the agency's reporting requirements. Vilsack and Clifford will face questions this week about their handling of PEDv at the World Pork Expo in Des Moines, Iowa, the industry's largest annual gathering. Many expect the officials will use the event to say more about the requirements. "We're definitely asking USDA to prioritize really making it a full-fledged investigation," said Liz Wagstrom, chief veterinarian for the National Pork Producers Council. "PEDv has really pointed out that we are vulnerable." Eric Neumann, a veterinarian studying the transmission of the disease, said the agency could have better tracked the spread of PEDv by insisting earlier that veterinarians report outbreaks. Some submitted voluntary reports on PEDv cases. "USDA deserves some very fair criticism that they did not put a more visible effort into investigating what the original source of the virus was," Neumann said. By this point, mandatory reports may not help control PEDv because the disease has already spread to 30 states, researchers said. It may also be too late to figure out specifically how PEDv entered the country, they added. "Just like a criminal case, the farther you get from an incident, the harder it is to put the pieces together," Neumann said. The first known case in Ohio was not identified for weeks because Minton initially thought the virus was a different disease called Transmissible Gastro-enteritis (TGE). Veterinarians across the country drew the same conclusion when handling early outbreaks because PEDv had never before been seen in the United States. Minton, a well-known veterinarian who logs 50,000 miles a year visiting farms in his white pick-up truck, realized he had treated the first case when he re-tested fecal samples from the Ohio farm after the USDA confirmed PEDv was in the country. Minton initially suspected the farm with the first known PEDv case got it from a contaminated truck that came from a slaughterhouse. Since then, though, he has started considering animal feed as a suspect. "If something like this can get in, we're not going to stop the next one," he said of PEDv. "We've got to continue to protect our food supply." Researchers in the past year have learned that PEDv, which causes diarrhea and vomiting, thrives in cold, damp conditions, and likely originated in Anhui province in China. It can be transmitted from pig to pig, by contact with pig manure, and from farm to farm on trucks. Farms can suffer more than one outbreak of the disease, meaning eradication may prove more difficult than many first assumed. Early PEDv outbreaks occurred around the country at some farms unconnected by trucks, personnel or animals, according to researchers. It seems common sense then to consider that PEDv may have been carried by animal feed or feed ingredients like vitamins, Wagstrom said. Following the initial outbreaks, the USDA and industry members identified seven feed-related risk factors that could have a possible relationship with the entry of PEDv into the United States. However, little progress has been made to nail down a carrier, according to veterinarians. The USDA launched a general review in late 2013 of how swine viruses enter the United States. It does not focus on PEDv but Clifford said the virus would have entered in the same manner as other diseases. Initial results indicate it is more likely for people than feed to carry in hog diseases because viruses in feed often die during long trips on hot cargo ships, said Lisa Ferguson, national director of policy permitting and regulatory services for the USDA’s Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service. One way that humans can transmit the virus is on their shoes. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration, which is responsible for ensuring the safety of animal feed, is reviewing the manufacturing process of one company that produces dried pig plasma used as a feed supplement, a spokeswoman said. Still, none of the U.S. testing has established that any PEDv particles were still active when they were used in feed. The FDA declined to identify the company under review. Lack of understanding about the transmission of PEDv has created a palpable fear throughout the U.S. pork industry.     Duane Stateler, a pig farmer who is president of the Ohio Pork Council, said a local farm supply store requested that he stay away after his pigs caught PEDv. Instead, the store sent an employee to deliver goods to Stateler in the parking lot of a bowling alley 1/4-mile from the store. Separately, he spent $500 on sandals for himself and his employees so they only wear certain shoes in certain parts of the farm. "It's almost like you keep looking over your shoulder all the time," he said. (Reporting by Tom Polansek; Editing by Martin Howell) FREE AppDownload
Societe GeneraleAlbert EdwardsProfits are the key driver of stock prices returns in the long run. Almost everyone would agree with that. However, the bulls and bears remain split about a few things. One big debate is over profit margins and whether or not they are sustainable at such elevated levels. In his latest note to clients, Societe Generale's Albert Edwards updates us on the bears' position in the debate. "During the excitement of the downward revision of Q1 US GDP from +0.1% to -1.0% investors seem not to have noticed a $213bn, 10% annualised slump in the US Bureau of Economic Analysis<U+0092>s (BEA) favoured measure of whole economy profits, defined as profits from current production," writes Edwards, a long time bear himself. "The bottom line is that the US profits margin cycle has begun to turn down at long last (see chart below)," said Edwards. "It is doing so from elevated but not unprecedented levels <U+0096> especially the non- financial part of the economy (my former colleague Leo Doyle always told me I had to add depreciation into the profits numerator as the denominator GDP was also measured gross of depreciation <U+0096> i.e. the G in GDP!)." Albert Edwards, Societe Generale The downturn in profits and profit margins is striking. It's worth noting, however, that the experts on the bullish side of the profit margin debate have actually pivoted, and they're now focused more on return on equity (ROE) measures. "GDP is an imperfect denominator with many parts that vary in size over time," wrote Deutsche Bank's David Bianco in a May 22 note to clients. ""Profits of GDP and net margins are incomplete profit metrics ... Profits should be measured relative to capital employed and both NIPA based ROA and S&amp;P financial statement based ROE measures are consistent with history." The debate over profit margins is a lengthy one, which we won't get into here (But, read about it here, here, here, and here). But we can't ignore Edwards' warning. Even the biggest bulls expect some degree of mean reversion (Bianco has predicted that the next 5%+ move in the S&amp;P 500 will be down). Time will tell who's right. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Neil HallInstruments are left on the ground during a break as members of the Royal Marines Band rehearse for Beating Retreat on Horse Guards Parade in London June 2, 2014.Good morning! Here's what you need to know: Improvement In China: Overnight, we learned China's HSBC manufacturing PMI climbed to a four-month high of 49.7 in May from 48.1 in April.The final PMI reading for May confirmed that the economy is stabilizing, but it is too early to say that it has bottomed out, particularly in light of a weaker property sector," said HSBC's Hongbin Qu. "The lack of a sustainable growth momentum warrants stronger policy support. We expect both monetary and fiscal policy to be loosened gradually over the coming months." Europe's Slow Jobs Recovery: The unemployment rate in the Eurozone fell to 11.7% in April from 11.8% the month prior. "The improvement this month comes mainly from the periphery, with Portugal and Spain recording declines in the rate of joblessness; the unemployment rate was unchanged in France and Germany," noted Pantheon Macroeconomics' Claus Vistesen. "It is still too early to call it a trend, but ... the recent improvement could be interpreted as a more decisive turning point. The unemployment rate is lagging indicator to the business cycle and we are cautiously optimistic that the recent rate of decline will be sustained in the next six-months." Europe's Disinflation Problem: The Eurozone consumer price index decelerated to just 0.5% year-over-year in May from 0.7% the month prior. Core CPI slowed to 0.7% from 1.0%. This validates concerns of deflation risks rising. But it also gives the European Central Bank room to ease monetary policy further, which is what most experts expect. Pilgrim's Beefs Up Its Bid For Hillshire Brands: Chicken mega-producer Pilgrim's has raised its offer for Hillshre Brands to $55 per share, which is higher than the $50 offered by competitor Tyson Foods last week. "Pilgrim's anticipates run-rate cost synergies in excess of $300 million annually to come from operational and value-chain efficiencies and, in addition, significant growth opportunities in higher margin branded products, both in North America and internationally," said Pilgrim's in the new statement. $15/Hour: Seattle approved a minimum wage of $15/hour. "Under the terms of the plan, businesses with fewer than 500 workers must raise wages to the $15 mark in the next seven years, an increase of more than 60 percent from Seattle's current minimum wage of $9.32 an hour," reported Reuters' Jimmy Lovaas. "Larger businesses must meet that level within three years, or four if they provide health insurance." Some Ugly GM Stats: From Reuters: "At least 74 people have died in General Motors cars in accidents with some key similarities to those that GM has linked to 13 deaths involving defective ignition switches, a Reuters analysis of government fatal-crash data has determined." From Bloomberg: "General Motors Co. filed 2,004 reports on injuries and deaths stemming from accidents in cars that have been recalled for ignition-related defects, the Center for Auto Safety said." Here Come Car Sales: Throughout the day, the big automakers will announce their May sales figures. Analysts estimate the pace of sales increased to an annualized pace of 16.1 million in May from 15.98 million in April. "Industry surveys point to a modest gain in overall motor vehicle sales in May after they pulled back 2% in April to a 16.0 million unit annual rate following a 7% surge in March to a seven-year high of 16.3 million," said Morgan Stanley's Ted Wieseman. "Retail sales appear to be on pace for a stronger gain to the best pace of the year, partly offset by lower fleet sales." Here Come Factory Orders: Economists estimate orders increased by 0.5% in April. "Factory orders rose at a solid pace in March after being depressed between December and February," noted Nomura economists. "Orders should rise again in April, as signaled by the increase in the advanced reading on durable goods orders." The report will be released at 10:00 a.m. ET. Markets Are Mixed: Stocks are in the red across Europe with Britain's FTSE 100 down 0.4%, France's CAC 40 down 0.1%, and Germany's DAX down 0.2%. Asia closed higher with Japan's Nikkei climbing o.6% and Hong Kong's Hang Seng up 0.9%. U.S. futures are modestly lower. PIMCO Continues To Bleed Funds: According to new data from Morningstar, PIMCO's flagship Total Return Fund saw $4.29 billion in net outflows in May. This marks the 13th straight month of outflows for the fund managed by Bill Gross, bringing the cumulative total net outflow amount to $59.55 billion. However, a PIMCO spokesperson told Business Insider that the fund outperformed 79% of its competitors during the month. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersRaindrops are seen on the logo of a rental bicycle sponsored by Barclays in LondonLONDON (Reuters) - Barclays Plc has this week cut several hundred jobs in its investment bank as part of its plan to shrink the business by 7,000 staff over the next three years to save costs, people familiar with the matter said. The cuts will mostly be in the fixed income, currencies and commodities (FICC) trading and markets businesses, rather than in advisory and equities. FICC is the area that Barclays and several other banks such as UBS AG are scaling back due to falling revenues and tougher regulations. The precise number of job losses was not known, but there will be cuts in Asia, Europe and the United States, the sources said. The latest cuts add to more than 400 already made by the British bank in its investment bank this year. Barclays Chief Executive Antony Jenkins last month reined in the bank's ambitions to be a Wall Street powerhouse and said he would cut about one in four jobs in the division, as part of a plan to cut 19,000 jobs across the bank. "As stated on May 8, at the time of our strategy update, Barclays plans to reduce the headcount of its investment bank by approximately 7,000 over the course of three years," a spokesman for Barclays said. "These reductions are in line with our commitment to a higher-returning investment bank with an origination-led banking strategy and a markets business focused on standardized, liquid products." Jenkins is attempting to cut costs and improve profitability at the bank. Trading revenues in FICC, especially interest rate trading, have slumped in the past year amid a low interest rate environment and banks have to hold more capital against the business, driving down returns. Shareholders were also angered when Barclays raised bonuses for investment bank staff last year, despite a fall in profits.   (Reporting by Steve Slater; Editing by David Holmes) FREE AppDownload
Let's have a slowclap for the Eurozone. The unemployment rate just fell from 11.8% to 11.7%. Of course, the number is still comically high, and is barely better than its worst levels of al time. Still, it's improvement. Eurostat FREE AppDownload
More pressure on the ECB to act: Eurozone inflation just came in weaker than expected. According to Eurostat, the annualized rate of inflation in May was just 0.5%. That's below the 0.7% in April, and also below the 0.6% that was expected. On Thursday, the ECB holds its next meeting, and there's virtual unanimity among economists that some kind of new easing measure is going to be taken. Today's low inflation number only solidifies that case. FREE AppDownload
Quietly, Bitcoin is on a roll. They key word there is quietly. After spending a long time in the $400 area, the price of the digital currency is now in the high $600s. Via Bitcoinwisdom, here's a long-term chart, which shows the recent climb in perspective. Bitcoinwisdom What feels different about this Bitcoin rally is the lack of hype, and the calmness of the market. While the media mostly forgot about Bitcoin over the last several months, venture capitalists have continued to pour money into startups. And more and more businesses are accepting Bitcoin as payment. Meanwhile, yesterday, Apple appeared to open the door for Bitcoin apps in the app store, a very positive development for the community. Bottom line: The whole thing feels less hypey, less volatile, and more stable. For fans of the currency, the latest developments are exactly what you want to see. FREE AppDownload
Flickr / David HilowitzThe first week of the month is always great, because it's data week.  Yesterday we got a bunch of manufacturing data. Today we get car sales. Here's a preview, from Calculated Risk: "Light vehicle sales for May. The consensus is for light vehicle sales to increase to 16.1 million SAAR in May from 16.0 million in April (Seasonally Adjusted Annual Rate)." Car sales trend to track nicely with the job market. And more generally, cars are the kind of high-dollar purchase people only make when they're feeling good. So if the economy is really starting to catch fire, as Spring comes, this is a big number to watch. The manufacturers will be reporting their numbers all day, and we'll be carrying them. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA girl reads a book on her balcony as smoke rises from chimneys of a steel plant, on a hazy day in QuzhouBEIJING (Reuters) - China, the world's biggest emitter of climate-changing greenhouse gases, will set an absolute cap on its CO2 emissions from 2016, a top government adviser said on Tuesday. The target will be written into China's next five-year plan, which comes into force in 2016, He Jiankun, chairman of China's Advisory Committee on Climate Change, told a conference in Beijing. There had been local media speculation last year that the country would introduce absolute caps, considered more stringent than its current system of pegging CO2 emissions, which have soared 50 percent since 2005, to the size of the economy. "The government will use two ways to control CO2 emissions in the next five-year plan, by intensity and an absolute cap," He said. The statement comes the day after the United States, the world's second-biggest emitter, for the first time announced plans to rein in carbon emissions from its power sector, a move the Obama administration hopes can inject ambition into slow-moving international climate negotiations. [ID:nL1N0OJ0FC] Climate negotiators from over 190 nations are currently flying in to Bonn, Germany to start a new 10-day round of climate talks. China, often blamed by rich countries for holding back progress in U.N. talks on emissions due to its reluctance to take on a binding target, is stepping up efforts to clean up or shut down carbon-emitting sources such as coal-fired power plants, factories and vehicles, because they have also created a much-publicized pollution crisis that ends hundreds of thousands lives prematurely every year. Despite the absolute cap on CO2, He said China's greenhouse gas emissions would only peak in 2030, at around 11 billion tonnes of CO2-equivalent. Its emissions currently stand at around 7-9.5 billion tonnes. But the adviser said that would depend on China achieving a real reduction in coal consumption from sometime around 2020 or 2025, and on the nation meeting its target of having 150-200 gigawatts of nuclear power capacity by 2030. The share of non-fossil fuels in China's energy mix would reach 20 to 25 percent in 2030, He said. Meanwhile, Sun Cuihua, a high-level climate change official at the National development and Reform Commission (NDRC), told the conference China was planning to introduce its national emissions trading scheme in 2016 or 2017, but that it would only be fully functional in 2020. Over the past year China has launched pilot carbon markets in six cities and provinces to gain experience in using emissions trading to cut pollution. [ID:nL3N0OF15C]   (Editing by Joseph Radford) FREE AppDownload
Flickr/ElvinGood morning! Markets are down just a touch this morning. The big news overnight was the release of the Chinese PMI manufacturing report, which came in a bit weaker than expected, damping hopes of a big comeback.  The fallout, if there is any, isn't huge.  US futures are down less than 0.1%. Same with German stocks. The UK is off 0.17%. Overall, there isn't very much to see. FREE AppDownload
