Oil is a critical source of energy. In the past, a major oil price shock meant devastation for economic growth. "Our obsession with oil prices comes with good reason," writes Morgan Stanley economist Ellen Zentner. "Abrupt and sharp increases in oil prices have played a key role in precipitating recessions in 1973-75, 1980-81, 1990-91, 2001 and 2008-09." Recent turmoil in Iraq has sent oil prices much higher. But economists aren't ready to freak out just yet. "Over time, however, those shocks to the relative price of oil have spurred innovations that have led to a more efficient use of energy inputs," continued Zentner. "Alongside growing use of other energy inputs, those innovations have reduced the world economy’s dependence on oil." Zentner presented this chart showing how a decreasing amount of energy has been needed to generated a dollar's worth of GDP in the world. Morgan Stanley It may not be immediately intuitive how this could be. Zentner offers a more micro level example that anyone who's been in a car can appreciate. US households have also adjusted consumption patterns over time. When gasoline prices rise, drivers tend to reduce mileage in response and/or seek out more fuel efficient vehicles. This altered behavior, coupled with shifting demographic factors and a slow labor market recovery since the financial crisis, has weighed on vehicle miles driven and lessens the aggregate impact of price increases at the pump. In the 12 months ended May 2014, average vehicle miles driven remained below the previous peak (reached in November 2007) for a 76th straight month. In 1990, consumers devoted 3.8% of total consumption to motor fuels. By 2013, that share had fallen to 2.3% (Exhibit 3). Here's her chart. It shares a similar downward slope as the chart above. Morgan Stanley It's certainly worth noting that innovation isn't just about fuel efficiency. Technological developments have enabled U.S. oil drillers to extract fossil fuels from shale in North Dakota, Pennsylvania, Texas and elsewhere using unconventional methods. Indeed, thanks to the shale boom, we might not even see Middle East-triggered oil price spikes we've seen in past. FREE AppDownload
ReutersHSBC China PMI climbed to 50.7 in June, from 49.4 in May. This was lower than the flash reading of 50.8 — a seven month high. A reading below 50 indicates contraction. It is however important to note that staffing levels fell for the eighth straight month, albeit at a slower pace. “This confirms the trend of stronger demand and faster de-stocking,” Hongbin Qu, chief economist China at HSBC, said in a press release. "The economy continues to show more signs of recovery, and this momentum will likely continue over the next few months, supported by stronger infrastructure investments.” “However there are still downside risks from a slowdown in the property market, which will continue to put pressure on growth in the second half of the year. We expect both fiscal and monetary policy to remain accommodative until the recovery is sustained.” Here's a look at the trajectory of Chinese manufacturing PMI: Markit Economics/HSBC Earlier this evening, we got the official PMI number which showed manufacturing climbed to 51. Beijing announced a mini-stimulus following weak economic data at the start of the year and the People’s Bank of China announced targeted reserve requirement ratio (RRR) cuts. This is expected to have improved business sentiment. FREE AppDownload
Nothing takes the pain out of burying a loved one like knowing you’re standing in a building being heated by gasses released during their embalming. Or at least that’s the way one British crematorium hopes you’ll feel. According to a Discovery.com article, gasses from the bodies are already captured during the embalming process to filter out the mercury in the “deceased’s fillings” (I don’t know about you, but that’s the creepiest two-word combination I’ve read today). Instead of letting the energy escape, these industrious morticians pipe it throughout the funeral home. I definitely appreciate the waste-not-want-not ethic at work here, but maybe we should keep this a trade secret. It’s a smart and green business practice, but not one I’m sure grieving relatives want to hear about. You probably know that cows emit methane through their daily biological processes (specifically pooping and passing gas). Cow manure has long been used to fuel vehicles and a new project from Argentina's National Institute of Agricultural Technology is creating cow backpacks to keep their gas power from escaping. But why should cows have all the fun? Maybe you’re thinking to yourself, “Hey, I produce feces and flatulence every day, too! Can I cash in on this?” You sure can! In a much, much less efficient way. We, too produce methane, as well as hydrogen gasses, but it would take a person about one month to produce a gallon of compressed natural gas. A more communal (read: pooling our emissions) approach might be necessary to make this method feasible. If you want to go the feces route, you’ll need a methane bio-digester, which isn’t bad in  itself – a properly functioning unit emits no smell – but you will have to collect your “fuel.” The good news is that feces produce enough methane to be a useful household energy source, and you can use food waste, too. Unless you want to tell your friends that your house is powered by your poo – in that case, no cheating with table scraps. For anyone who has witnessed the destructive force of a tornado firsthand, the idea of creating fake twisters in a lab might sound like a bad idea. But tornadoes are the massive powerhouses we know them to be precisely because they hold massive amounts of energy. It’s that energy that Louis Michaud wants to harness. According to popsci.com, Michaud, a retired ExxonMobil engineer, has spent his golden years creating vortices in his garage. However, even the largest “tornado” he’s produced has been only about 65 feet in height – at those measurements, the energy produced is negligible. But Michaud predicts that as the size of the vortex increases, its energy-producing capacity will rapidly expand. Michaud, who now works with Canada’s AVEtec Energy Corp., proposes partnering with power plants to utilize the waste energy they generate via heat-to-fuel what he hopes will be twisters of over 9 miles tall – the highest natural tornadoes have only been about 5-½ miles. Energy would be harnessed by the twisters powering turbines. Doing this, he says, could potentially create more energy than nuclear or fossil fuels at less than half the cost of the lowest traditional energy source. Michaud’s idea seems to have great promise; clearly, tornadoes are natural energy forces to be reckoned with. But -- maybe I’ve seen Twister one too many times -- creating artificial tornadoes when humans are powerless to stop natural ones just seems like a disaster waiting to happen. An average newborn baby uses 10 to 14 diapers every day. In Japan, however, it’s the adult diaper market that’s increasing as the baby diaper market shrinks. But whether the source is a one year old or a 90 year old, disposable diapers are a guaranteed way to fatten a landfill. However, that may soon change – a Japanese company, Super Faiths Inc., has devised a way to turn yesterday’s pants protector into tomorrow’s energy supply. According to the company’s website, used diapers (contents and all) sealed in plastic bags can be thrown into their machines where they automatically go through a shredding, fermentation and drying process. Contained in one unit to avoid user contact, the final step in the process is to deodorize the material. The company claims that the result is bacteria-free “fluffy fuel chips.” The chips – or pellets - are dry, odorless and contain 5000 kcal of heat per kilogram and are meant to be used in biomass heating and electricity systems, according to inhabit.com. Since Americans alone throw away 18 billion diapers a year, I love the idea of finding a way to turn this waste to energy. However, before you get all excited and soil yourself just to try out the new technology, know that the Japanese mainly use paper diapers. American disposable diapers contain a lot more plastic and may not be good candidates for this process just yet. Beginning in 2007, illegal liquor confiscated on the Swedish border has been transported about 125 miles to a plant in the city of Linkoping, where it is heated and converted to biogas. According to nbcnews.com, hundreds of gallons of smuggled booze is seized by customs officials and used to power buses and trucks and even a biogas train. Officials claim a “quart of pure alcohol is enough to make about a tenth of a gallon of gas” and the best part: the alcohol that starts the process is (unintentionally) supplied free of charge. The downside? Some pretty disappointed Swedish people who won’t be getting their delicious, illegal booze. Other than that, I can’t really think of a negative side to this one!  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/William HongOfficial China PMI climbed to 51 in June, in line with expectations. This is up modestly from 50.8 in May. A reading above 50 indicates expansion. Beijing announced a mini-stimulus following weak economic data at the start of the year and the People’s Bank of China announced targeted reserve requirement ratio (RRR) cuts. This is expected to have improved business sentiment. FREE AppDownload
No one is expected to be able to predict the future perfectly. However, Wall Street economists are paid a lot to be as accurate as possible when it comes to such tasks. Unfortunately, according to their own revisions of their forecasts, they tend to be way off. Deutsche Bank's Torsten Slok charted economists' revisions to GDP forecasts over time for five periods. If these economists were spot on, then these lines would be straight from left to right. But as you can see, these lines are rather squiggly. Deutsche Bank FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Cathal McNaughtonA man dressed in an orange suit watches Robert Plant on the Pyramid stage at Worthy Farm in Somerset, during the Glastonbury Festival.Good morning – it’s PMI and RBA day. Here’s what you need to know… 1. Countries around the world release their Purchasing Managers’ Index throughout the day. The big number is China’s, out 11am AEST, with a Reuters poll of economists forecasting a result of 51, edging higher from last month’s 50.8. An increase will be another sign that the selective stimulus from Chinese policymakers has been working. We also get Australia’s at 9.30am AEST from AiG. 2. The RBA board meets this morning and we get the statement at 2.30pm AEST. Nobody is expecting any chance in the target cash rate, but the markets will be watching the governor’s statement carefully for clues on the board’s thinking on the progress of the Australian economy and the strength of the dollar, which might indicate the future direction of rates. Soc Gen wrote in its Asia Morning Call this morning that the strong GDP growth at the start of the year was no grounds for abandoning caution. “Australia’s Q1 growth positively surprised not merely in terms of the magnitude of growth, but in ‘quality’ as well… Nevertheless, while this may sway the RBA to be a little more positive about growth, we doubt its view of growth remaining below trend over the coming year or so will be substantially altered. Two of its three main arguments for slow growth, the practical certainty of declining resource investment and below-average growth in public demand, remain in place – and we agree with them.” 3. To the markets and the US session was flat with the Dow down 0.2%, the S&amp;P 500 down 0.06%, and the Nasdaq gaining 0.2%. News that Chinese authorities are likely to ease rules on loan to deposit ratios spurred a rally in Shanghai, which was up 0.56%. The Nikkei also rose, up 0.44%. With the regional PMIs out today and the Tankan out in Japan, it’s a big day ahead for Asian markets. ASX futures are pointing to a rise on the open following yesterday’s 0.9% fall, but iron ore prices fell again overnight so this will weigh on the miners. 4. Australia’s new Senate starts today, and the balance of power is shifting from the Greens to a rainbow crossbench of minor parties, with the main bloc being Clive Palmer’s PUP. “Colourful” is one adjective that will be often used to describe them; “unpredictable” is a better way to think about it. The PUP bloc is: former rugby league player Glenn Lazarus, Tasmania’s Jacqui Lambie, former Australian Resources MD Dio Wang, and the Motoring Enthusiast Party’s Ricky Muir. The other crossbenchers are Family First’s Bob Day, the NSW Liberal Democrats’ David Leyonhjelm, the DLP’s John Madigan, and veteran SA independent Senator Nick Xenophon. The Senate is already holding up important budget measures, including the carbon tax, so the government will be eager to start working with the new Upper House. 5. Speaking of Clive Palmer, he has some questions to answer about his use of Chinese state money. Citic Pacific, the China state-owned investment company whose relationship with Palmer soured, is trying to establish what happened to some of its cash – more than $12 million of it. The question is whether some was used to help pay for Palmer’s election campaigns, and The Australian reports this morning that some $2.1 million was paid to a media agency just five days before the election last September. 5. Taxes are up today in Australia. The start of the new financial year means the Medicare Levy rises from 1.5% to 2% to pay for the national disability insurance scheme, while the deficit levy kicks in for people earning over $180,000 – an extra 1c in the dollar. Employers also must increase the minimum superannuation payments for employees to 9.5%, from 9.25%. 6. The case for a crash. After a warning from central bankers yesterday about euphoria in the stock market, Business Insider editor-in-chief Henry Blodget has a column explaining why he thinks a day of reckoning is coming. In summary, there’s three points: stocks are very expensive (at a PE ratio of 26X, far above the long-term average of 15X); corporate profit margins are still near record highs; and the Fed is now tightening. You can read it here. 7. Rolf Harris faces jail. The Australian entertainer was convicted on 12 counts of indecent assault overnight. He will be sentenced on Friday and faces up to 24 years in prison. 8. Business news from robots. The Associated Press will soon have artificial intelligence churning out 4,400 earnings reports per quarter, a time-frame in which human reporters could could write up just 300. No reporters are getting laid off; they’ll just have more time to write better stories that explain what the results mean. 9. A much better-looking Most Powerful list. Hot on the heels of BRW’s Rich List comes the photogenic version from Forbes – their 100 Most Powerful Celebrities. And the winner is… Beyonce, who played 95 shows this year, bringing in a staggering average of $US2.4 million per stop. Oh, and her husband was sixth. Here’s the Top 10. 10. World Cup stars are sorry, really. As France as Germany limped to unconvincing wins this morning, two players have come clean on the most controversial part of the 2014 tournament – sportmanship, or lack of it. Luis Suarez dropped the “he fell on my teeth” act and apologised for biting Italian defender Giorgio Chiellini. Sort of. And Dutch captain Arjen Robben admitted he flopped in the game that saw Mexico knocked out of the Cup. Sort of. This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Gonzalo Fuentes French bank BNP Paribas was just fined a record $8.9 billion as it plead guilty to fraud, resulting in the dismissal of several employees. As part of the agreement, prosecutors have relased documents showing the banks most cringeworthy activities, as it attempted to circumvent restrictions on banking in certain countries. In the NYDFS complaint, we first learn that BNP Paribas was well aware that it would have to commit fraud to get around the U.S. restrictions, but deemed the risk worth it, because other firms were also doing it.  Even the highest levels of the compliance division for the New York Branch recognized and accepted that amending, omitting and stripping was widespread among foreign banks transmitting funds through the U.S. When a settlement with U.S regulators and Dutch bank ABN AMRO was announced for violations of U.S. sanctions law, the Head of Ethics and Compliance North America wrote in an email to another employee, "the dirty little secret isn't so secret anymore, oui?" AMRO settled for $500 million in 2010. BNP employees also seem to have been fond of deploying exclamation marks to let colleagues know when the fix was in:  one payment message for a Sudanese party was stamped "URGENT," "ATTENTION EMBARGO" and cautioned,"! Transfer in$ without mentioning [Sudanese Bank] to the USA!!!" ... BNP Paribas used policy directives, such as those contained in the February 2007 Operating Application for Filtering of Transactions under the Group Policy on Iran, to ensure that SWIFT MT 202 cover payment messages meant to be processed through New York from BNPP reflected only the identity of the "receiving institution (and not the [ultimate] Iranian beneficiary institution!)" (emphasis in the original). All this made things quite awkward for the firm's compliance officers. Here's what it looked like on Cuban transactions... BNPP was fully aware of the legal risks. In a January 2006 internal email, one employee at BNPP Paris asked a BNP Paribas compliance officer, "when we lend money to the Cubans, the loans are generally made out in [ d]ollars ... [ c ]ould we be reprimanded, and if so, based on what?" The compliance officer responded to that employee and others, including a senior manager at BNPP Paris: "These processing transactions obliges us to obscure information regarding the USD (BNPP NY) Clearer, and it is a position which BNPP is not comfortable with, and which, of course, offers a risk to its image and, potentially, a risk for reprisals from US authorities if this behavior was discovered ..." And Sudanese ones.  ...BNPP's senior compliance personnel agreed to continue the Sudanese business and rationalized the decision by stating that "the relationship with this body of counterparties is a historical one and the commercial stakes are significant. For these reasons, Compliance does not want to stand in the way of maintaining this activity for ECEP..." You may recall that the Sudanese government was butchering its own people in Darfur during this period. Here is what BNP had to say about that: Internal Bank memoranda regarding BNPP's Sudanese business that discussed the political environment and the "crisis in Darfur" also discussed the economic environment and the Sudanese oil industry's "financial dynamism."  The whole complaint is worth reading — it's not very long, and the fraud is pretty unsophisticated. BNP Complaint  FREE AppDownload
ShutterstockNearly six years into the Federal Reserve (Fed)’s unprecedented experiment in unconventional monetary policy, nearly every asset class is starting to look pricey. With cash paying nothing and long-dated bonds barely keeping up with inflation, investors have bid up risky assets from high yield debt to frontier market equities in search of a decent return. In the process, they have left few bargains behind. However, there is one asset class that still looks cheap: volatility. BlackRock and other market watchers have increasingly taken the view in recent years that volatility is an asset class, accessible through funds that track volatility indices and other strategies, that can potentially help reduce portfolio risk and increase returns). Last week, U.S. equity market volatility, as measured by the VIX Index, hit 10.34, the lowest level since early 2007 and roughly half the long-term average. A similar pattern of low volatility is visible across asset classes and geographies. Why is volatility so low? The simple answer is that financial market volatility is mostly driven by the credit cycle. When monetary conditions are loose – meaning credit is both available and cheap – market volatility tends to be lower. This relationship is evident when you compare equity market volatility with a proxy for credit market conditions, such as high yield spreads. In the past, the correlation between high yield spreads and equity market volatility has been roughly 80%. Today, short-term interest rates are still stuck at zero, real short-term rates are negative and companies are flush with cash. In other words, credit conditions are about as easy as they get, a fact reflected in very tight high yield spreads, currently at a 7-year low of around 325 basis points. With credit conditions this easy, you would expect a low volatility regime. That said, I believe there is a big difference between where volatility should be and where it is today. Even after adjusting for unusually tight credit spreads, volatility should be in the mid-teens, not scraping close to single digits. At today’s levels, volatility is in the bottom 1% of volatility levels going back to 1990. In other words, volatility looks too low even after accounting for a very benign credit environment. This is particularly true considering that investors are ignoring rising geopolitical risk, including recent events in Iraq that have the potential to lead to a nasty spike in oil prices. The bottom line for investors is that in a world of few bargains, volatility does appear to be the one relatively cheap asset classes. And while a continuation of zero interest rates and cash-flush companies will most likely keep volatility below its long-term average for the foreseeable future, it will take a lot of good luck to keep volatility as low as it currently is. This suggests that investors looking to potentially help protect portfolio performance if market volatility suddenly rises in the case of an unexpected correction may want to consider buying volatility. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Eddie Keogh FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Using Indexing And Passive Funds Can Help Manage Volatility Risks (Vanguard) Vanguard's Jim Rowley argues that investors should use indexing to create an active-passive portfolio, and decrease volatility risks. Adding passive funds can help broaden diversification, lower costs, and increase tax efficiency. "We know that investors are a lot less happy during those periods of underperformance than they are happy during the periods of outperformance," Rowley said. "So by adding indexing … that leaves you with a portfolio that still has the opportunity to outperform, but from a risk management perspective, it might shrink in those extreme periods." Impact Investing Is Making Its Way Into Mainstream Planning (InvestmentNews) Big-name financial institutions such as Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan, and UBS have begun to pursue impact investing and this trend will start impacting client decisions, according to William Burckart, managing director of Impact Economy. "Advisers who don't believe impact investing will play a meaningful role in their own client strategies aren't seeing the writing on the wall. Investing for meaningful impact will become part of mainstream planning and, in fact, will be the core portfolio for many next-generation investors who stand to inherit upwards of $41 trillion in baby boomer wealth," wrote Burckart in an InvestmentNews column. "A 2013 study by the World Economic Forum found that next-generation investors consistently ranked impact performance as their primary investment criterion, ahead of return," he wrote. "As individuals and institutions look to the financial services industry to supply — and financial planners to advise on — financial products and strategies consistent with these broader goals, firms will have to figure out how to serve a new set of client demands." Taking On a Younger Client With Low Assets Can Be A Good Idea (Wall Street Journal) Even if a potential client only has $25,000 in assets, turning him or her away could be a bad idea. Richard Rosso of Clarity Financial LLC explained that aside from assets and earning potential, savings habits and influence are great indicators of when to take on a new client. "If a client has good habits on both sides of their ledger, they're going to be successful. That's why savings and debt behavior makes up 40% of my assessment of new young clients," Rosso said. "What someone earns at their job is an outcome you ultimately can't control. Far more important to me is a client's 'center of influence' potential—who they know, how they network, and the other young people they associate with," he said. "I want clients who are going to share the work we do together and to share my advice. In that way, I can extend my sphere of influence to an entire social circle. All of those factors drive that client's referral potential and increase the value of our partnership." How To Use Introversion To Your Advantage In Financial Planning (Nerd's Eye View) Michael Kitces debated against the need to be extroverted to be a successful financial planner in his blog, Nerd's Eye View. "In fact, arguably the introvert’s preference for seeking out one-to-one relationships may actually make them especially good financial planners, able to connect with and bond with their clients – though for many, the process of “prospecting” and getting clients in the first place may be more challenging," Kitces said. "... When introverted people are especially drawn to a cause or purpose (a 'personal project'), they can be quite extroverted for a period of time in pursuit of their goal (though it is still draining to them and will eventually leave them wanting some alone time to recharge)." Plan For Retirement By Calculating Debt, Not Assets (Morningstar) Instead of figuring out how much you need at the time of retirement, figure out how much debt you need to pay off beforehand, columnist John Rekenthaler wrote for Morningstar. At the Morningstar Investment Conference, Michael Falk challenged an ING advertisement asking how much people will need in assets when they reach retirement. "To state the matter in reverse, the lump-sum at retirement that is required to fund $1,100 of monthly spending, assuming a 4% withdrawal rate, is $320,000. For the millions of households that currently have almost no savings at all, retirement or otherwise, that number will look daunting. But a lot less daunting than what is currently being shown to them," Rekenthaler said. "Moreover, argues Falk, retirees can shrink even these lowered lump-sum amounts," Rekenthaler continued. "Consider, for example, a worker who retires at age 70 and buys a deferred annuity that begins 15 years later. This annuity, which would cost pennies on the dollar, will be used to pay discretionary expenses from age 85 onward, thereby slashing the investment time horizon to 15 years. The investor can therefore safely increase the withdrawal rate (although carefully and cautiously in the first few years, to defend against the possibility of an early bear market)." FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsA disgruntled Tesla owner took delivery of his brand new Model S last week and promptly smashed its windshield with a wrench, reports the Wall Street Journal. The owner, Yu Xin Quan, a Chinese e-commerce entrepreneur, reportedly destroyed his $170,000 car's windshield to protest what he called "Tesla's arrogance."  For the past few months, Mr. Yu has been the outspoken leader of a group of Chinese Tesla customers who had their orders delayed due to a series of production, logistical, and legal issues. While most were placated by a meeting with the company's CEO, Elon Musk, in April, Mr. Yu continued to voice his dissatisfaction. The disgruntled owner expected to be one of the first in China to take delivery of the Model S when he placed his order last October. He became furious with Tesla earlier this year when he discovered that his car had not even been built when others in the country had already received their cars. To ameliorate the situation, Tesla offered to put special edition decals on the car and install charging equipment at his home free of charge. The company even offered Mr. Yu the use of one of its showroom display vehicles for a month while he awaited the arrival of his bespoke Model S. But Yu rejected the proposal, telling the WSJ that the showroom car just wouldn't be the same as his own. "I feel like I just married a woman who has been married," said Yu.  Though most will view such behavior with utter incredulity, the purposeful destruction of expensive toys is not so uncommon in China. It can be attributed to variety of causes, from the growing demand of Chinese consumers on customer service to the entitled mindset of China's elite, to the inadequacy of the country's civil litigation process. Whatever the reason, here are a couple of the more famous examples where Chinese owners of expensive cars have destroyed them in protest: Maserati Quattroporte: May 2013 REUTERS/Stringer ChinaLast year, a Maserati owner in northeastern China hired a group of men with sledgehammers to pummel his $423,000 Quattroporte sedan in front the exhibition hall at the Qingdao auto show. The man was reportedly upset over a botched repair at the company's dealership. The owner accused the shop of overcharging him while using second-hand parts. Lamborghini Gallardo: March 2011 REUTERSTwo year before the Maserati incident, a new Lamborghini Gallardo met a similar fate after the cars disgruntled owner hired a group of sledgehammer wielding men to demolish the malfunctioning supercar. According to GT Spirit, the Gallardo, which retailed in China at the time for $529,000 to $757,000, failed to start on delivery and suffered damage to its bodywork and suspension during delivery. The owner was unsuccessful in his attempts to resolve the issue by contacting Lamborghini CEO Stephan Winkelmann.  FREE AppDownload
GM has announced yet another recall, this time of over seven million vehicles. There have been 22 other days this year on which GM has recalled vehicles, and we wanted to take a look back at how the recall situation has developed. The chart below shows the cumulative number of vehicle recalls in the United States made by GM since the start of 2014, using the timeline GM provided in this press release for the mid-June recalls, along with press releases for the two recalls occurring after that release. Some of the largest and most dramatic recalls, including today's, involved problems with keys or ignition systems in the recalled vehicles. These recalls are marked in red: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from General Motors Today's recalls are the largest to happen on a single day since the start of the year, and the total number of recalls passed 25 million. All of these recalls have had a limited effect on GM's stock price. Here's GM's closing price on each day of this year, according to Yahoo Finance. As above, the ignition-related recalls, along with the days before and after the recall announcements, are marked in red:  Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Yahoo Finance Here's GM's table of recalls through the middle of June: General Motors The company also announced a set of four recalls on June 27, adding another 428,211 cars. And here's the table provided by GM showing the details of today's recalls: General Motors FREE AppDownload
COREAndrea Soros Colombel, daughter of billionaire investor George Soros, is putting up her Greenwich Village townhouse for $24.75 million. The luxurious property went on sale briefly in 2012 for $29.5 million, but was later withdrawn, The New York Times reports. She and her husband, Eric Colombel, first purchased the home for $11.5 million eight years ago. On top of the hefty new price tag, property taxes rack up to a little over $84,000 a year. With seven bedrooms and eight bathrooms, the townhouse is almost 8,500 square feet. Amenities include a private terrace, home gym with steam and sauna, three wood-burning fireplaces, an elevator, and more. The property is listed with CORE and is located at 10 West 10th Street, on Greenwich Village's Gold Coast.  FREE AppDownload
DaimlerMaybach ZeppelinA year after shuttering it's ultra-premium Maybach brand, Mercedes is taking another shot at topping Rolls-Royce and Bentley by building the $1 million Mercedes-Benz S-Class Pullman. The new ultra-luxurious version of the company's flagship S-Class will be the most expensive sedan in the world when it hits showrooms next year, reports Bloomberg.  In addition to the traditional lineup of premium hides, woodgrain accents, and plush carpeting, the S-Class Pullman will also feature a litany of must-have features for world's elite buyers including lounge-style seating and armor plating. At 21 feet long, the S-Class Pullman is nearly a foot and a half longer than the extended wheelbase Rolls-Royce Phantom and twice the cost as well.  Mercedes has yet to announce the powertrain options for its newest sedan, though it is expected to boast a lineup of the company's finest turbocharged or naturally aspirated V8 and V12 powerplants. Since the S-Class Pullman will effectively cost nearly twice as much as the nearest comparable Rolls or Bentley, we expect the mad scientists from Stuttgart to include the best of their techno goody bag.  Mercedes had made plans to build an ultra-premium sedan as far back as the mid-'90s. Those plans were hastened when the company's German rivals, BMW and Volkswagen-Audi, gained control of Rolls-Royce and Bentley, spurring Mercedes to get its Maybach brand up and running.  Instead of designing and building a new car from scratch, the company based the car that would become Maybach on the venerable W140 S-Class Mercedes that debuted in 1991. While they were as opulent as their half-million-dollar price tags would suggest, the Maybach 57 and 62s already looked and felt dated by the time they hit the market in 2002, compared to rivals from Rolls and Bentley.Mercedes-Benz2014 Mercedes-Benz S63 AMGAs for the latest Pullman, Mercedes hopes it will remind customers of the company's luxury heritage, which didn't exist with the obscure Maybach brand. "[Mercedes] are trying to evoke the very famous old 600 Pullman that was used by people from dictators to John Lennon," an IHS automotive analyst told Bloomberg. "They want to show that Mercedes still stands for an absolute elite, luxury, and opulence. There's symbolic value to this kind of car." FREE AppDownload
How much do you know about Brazil? Here are 13 wild facts about the country. Produced by Sam Rega. Follow BI Video: On Twitter
KKRWe're 60 months into the current U.S. economic expansion, which compares to a historical median of around 37 months. However, duration alone is no reason to believe that we're doomed for recession. Furthermore, there have been numerous expansions recently that have actually lasted much longer. KKR's Henry McVey notes that the previous three expansion have been much longer, averaging 95 months. "Put another way, we still see more running room in terms of the duration of this economic expansion, even if it is running at a painfully slow pace versus history," said McVey. "At the moment, our base forecast is unchanged: The current U.S. recovery will extend through 2017, which would be about in line with the past three economic cycles." McVey and his team included this in KKR's new mid-year outlook, in which they note four major macroeconomic trends that they consider to be the major factors propelling returns across global capital markets. First, they write that they continue to see "a lot of reasonably valued mid and large-cap stocks with excess cash balances and low leverage" in developed equity markets. The institute considers this "constructive" for private and public equity investments. Additionally, this environment suggests that corporate M&amp;A activity will continue to be strong. Next, the firm writes that the sizeable illiquidity premium created by increased regulation through the banking system "remains compelling". Furthermore, their thinking has changed. Now, Europe is more appealing to them than the United States on the margin. Presently, companies in emerging markets need to recaptilalize or restructure their balance sheets, which is happening as the cost of capital in those same emerging market countries is going up. Both credit and equity investors "should be rewarded" by these two things happening simultaneously — especially in countries where there is a new government or central bank leadership. Finally, they write that many central banks "still remain committed" to keeping nominal interest rates below nominal GDP. As a result, they suggest that it makes sense to own real assets that can deliver yield, growth, and inflation. Read the whole report at KKR.com. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Julien MuguetBNP Paribas Chief Executive Jean-Laurent Bonnafe.For weeks there have been reports that BNP Paribas, the largest bank in France, would face a massive fine and be barred from trading in dollars for violating U.S. sanctions. Now it's official. The bank will pay $8.8 billion in addition to pleading guilty to sanctions violation charges, according to Bloomberg. A Manhattan prosecutor has charged the bank with conspiracy and falsifying business records. That's a state charge, while the charges BNP is paying this fine for are federal. Check out the settlement provisions below: In addition to monetary penalties, NYDFS required other significant regulatory sanctions for BNPP in order for the Bank to retain its New York Branch license. These included accountability – including terminations – for individual executives involved in the misconduct and the suspension of U.S. dollar clearing for business lines in which the misconduct centered. Under the agreement, BNP Paribas shall implement a one year-long suspension of U.S. Dollar clearing services through its New York Branch or any U.S. BNPP affiliate or any bank in which it has a controlling interest. BNPP shall not seek to avoid or circumvent the Suspension by moving, or causing to be moved, any client relationship to any other branch or affiliate or business line of BNPP. The Suspension shall begin on January 1, 2015 and terminate on December 31, 2015 and shall encompass the following: Suspension of all U.S. dollar clearing for oil and gas finance business at BNPP Geneva;Suspension of all U.S. dollar clearing for oil and gas finance business at BNPP Paris;Suspension of all U.S. dollar clearing for oil and gas finance business at BNPP Singapore;Suspension of all U.S. dollar clearing for Trade Finance business at BNPP Milan;Suspension of all U.S. dollar clearing for oil and gas-related clients at BNPP Rome;Suspension of all U.S. dollar clearing of deposits by unaffiliated third-party banks at BNPP LondonIn addition, BNP Paribas shall, for a period of two years, prohibit all U.S. dollar clearing as a correspondent bank for unaffiliated third-party banks in New York and London. Among other tasks, the monitor installed by DFS at BNPP will review the U.S. dollar clearing suspension at the Bank. In addition to helping ensure compliance with that suspension, the monitor’s review will help inform the potential imposition and degree of similar penalties by DFS at other banks – where appropriate. Superintendent Lawsky thanked the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York, the U.S. Department of Justice, the New York County District Attorney’s Office, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, and the U.S. Department of the Treasury for their work and cooperation in the BNP Paribas investigation. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike SegarOut of the 25 units sold at One57, over half are anonymous buyers through trusts. Some of them may never see the apartment.Here's a stunning fact: 30% of all apartments between 49th and 70th Streets and between Fifth and Park Avenues are vacant at least 10 months of the year, according to a Census Bureau estimate provided to New York Magazine. And since 2008, around 30% of condo sales in large-scale Manhattan developments have been by buyers with overseas addresses or through secretive LLCs. Those figures are especially shocking considering New York City residential real estate costs are at an all-time high, affordable housing is still a major issue, and homelessness in New York City is the worst its been since the Great Depression.  So why are all these apartments in midtown and elsewhere — many costing millions of dollars — sitting empty? In this week's issue of New York Magazine, Andrew Rice explores the influx of foreign wealth into the New York real estate market and why it's a great place to stash money while maintaining privacy. Rice writes (emphasis ours): ... while New York real estate has significant drawbacks as an asset—it’s illiquid and costly to manage—it has a major selling point in its relative opacity. With a little creative corporate structuring, the ownership of a New York property can be made as untraceable as a numbered bank account. And that makes the city an island haven for those who want to stash cash in an increasingly monitored global financial system. “With everything that is going on in Switzerland in terms of transparency, people are being forced to pay taxes on their capital that they used to hold there,” says Rodrigo Nino, the president of the Prodigy Network. “Real estate is a great alternative.” In short, Manhattan condos are the new Swiss bank accounts. And there's a lot more that goes into setting them than up than opening a real estate trust and buying through that entity. Rice explains the murky layers that can obfuscate a major purchase: Behind a New York City deed, there may be a Delaware LLC, which may be managed by a shell company in the British Virgin Islands, which may be owned by a trust in the Isle of Man, which may have a bank account in Liechtenstein managed by the private banker in Geneva. The true owner behind the structure might be known only to the banker. These layers also make property investment a great way for people to launder or hide their money, whether legally or illegally, Rice writes. After all, real estate is a big value investment that obscures real ownership relatively easily, and allows owners to generate “clean profits” such as rental income or capital gain. Courtesy of Extell Development CompanyA rendering of the $90 million penthouse at One57.Whether it's in the name of privacy or something more sinister, buying through a web of corporations is a common move among the global wealthy, Rice writes. For example, 14 of the 25 of closed sales at One57, the new, ultra-luxury skyscraper skyscraper rising 90 stories below Central Park were purchased by entities with unnamed owners. And such purchases aren't even illegal: Sending money to offshore bank accounts is an everyday occurrence for the über-wealthy. In Great Britain, there are laws that require the attorneys to disclose suspicious activity, but the U.S. doesn't have these same regulations. And while there are occasional stories of properties being seized as evidence in cases involving foreign corruption, Rice points out that these are not only hard to prove, but exceptionally rare. So with such high returns and seeming stability in NYC's real estate market — especially compared to other luxury markets like Hong Kong, Singapore, or even London — foreign investors will continue to flock to U.S. shores. And unless the laws change, we can expect a lot more anonymous foreign buyers who may never open the door of their luxury penthouses. Read the full New York Magazine piece here. FREE AppDownload
Spencer Platt/Getty ImagesDark pools on Wall Street were once heralded as a way for clients to get better deals on stock trades, but now they are associated with fraud and market manipulation. In the latest dark pool scandal that erupted this week, Barclay’s was accused by the New York Attorney General of misleading investors by funneling trades into Barclay’s dark pool without prior consent. Barclays lost $5 billion in equity value just moments after the news was released last night. For those who aren’t familiar, “dark pools” are essentially private stock exchanges. The theory is that a bank can match buyers and sellers from its own trading book, resulting in lower fees and benefiting both parties. There is also an argument that trading in stealth helps clients get a better price. Both of these theories have largely been debunked. Exchanges are a prime example of a natural monopoly, where buyers and sellers get better pricing and trade execution as exchanges get bigger, not smaller. Dark pools have persisted, however, because they are huge money makers for Wall Street banks. They essentially allow the bank to trade against their own clients in secret, and not surprisingly they are now a source of ignominy. Unfortunately it looks like Madison Avenue is following in the same footsteps. Last week WPP announced that they are going to create the first “dark pool” in adtech. Rather than buy media on a public exchange, WPP plans to create a private exchange. The storyline sounds like a chapter from Goldman Sachs in 2001: “If you trade on our private exchange, you save on fees and get better pricing on media.” Unfortunately this ignores the logic around how marketplaces actually work. In the interest of full disclosure, Greycroft has significant adtech investments that may be affected by this trend, but I am sure the announcement has other people scratching their heads as well. One obvious question is why would a publisher voluntarily move from Google’s exchange, where they get paid a lot of money, to WPP’s exchange, where they are promised less money? In all likelihood, there are deals going on behind the scenes. In the past, tech companies have used guaranteed spend to move publishers onto new platforms, allowing a publisher to make at least as much money as they did before. Our adtech companies do this off their balance sheet and assume the risk if it doesn't pan out. This would be the first time, however, that an agency would use client dollars to accomplish the same feat.<U+200E> <U+200E>If you are curious about how this benefits clients, so am I. The one thing that is very clear to me, however, is how it could benefit a media agency that is on both sides of the transaction.<U+200E> Therefore, buyers beware! Free and open buying and selling of advertising works best in a free and open market, not one where the owner is trading on the same system. Remember that you heard it here first, while there is still time to resist the power grab. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ahmed JadallahA member of Kurdish security forces sleeps after clashes with militants of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant, in the village of Basheer, south of the city of Kirkuk. Stocks closed mixed but little changed in the final trading session of the second quarter and the first half of the year.  First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories of the day: 1) This morning saw four economic data points, headlined by the Chicago Purchasing Manager Index, or PMI, which came in at 62.6. This what slightly below expectations for 63 and down from May's 65.5 reading. Ian Shepherdson of Pantheon Macro chalked up the report to falling orders from Boeing. "The Chicago PMI slipped to 62.6 in June from 65.5 in May, very close to the consensus, 63.0. In recent years the headline Chicago index has been little more than a lagging indicator of movements in orders for Boeing aircraft, and these data do nothing to change that impression. In recent months Boeing orders have fallen, but not by enough materially to depress the Chicago PMI, which should remain in the low 60s through the summer. Aircraft orders have been stronger than the broad manufacturing sector in recent years so the Chicago PMI has tended to run well above the national ISM index, but the gap should somewhat over the next few months because the ISM will enjoy a significant boost from generous seasonals, as it did last year. Overall, manufacturing now looks to be in decent shape. 2) This morning also saw pending home sales for May jump 6.1%, beating expectations for a more modest 1.2% increase. Pantheon Macro's Ian Shepherdson said of the report, "The surge in new home sales in May to a six-year high suggested upside risk for pending home sales but this is better than we expected. New and pending sales both capture transactions at the point contracts are signed and, while they don't move perfectly in line each month, it would have been surprising if pending sales had been weak after the report 18.6% m/m jump in new home sales."  3) The Dallas Fed's latest manufacturing survey jumped to 11.4 in June from 8.0 in May. This also topped economists' expectations for an 8.5 reading. The report's internals also showed stronger employment readings and more optimism regarding future business conditions. From the Dallas Fed: "Labor market indicators reflected stronger employment growth and longer workweeks. The June employment index rebounded to 13.1 after dipping to 2.9 in May. Twenty-one percent of firms reported net hiring compared with 8 percent reporting net layoffs. The hours worked index edged up from 2.8 to 4.7, indicating a slightly stronger rise in hours worked than last month... Expectations regarding future business conditions were more optimistic in June. The index of future general business activity rose 7 points to 18.7, while the index of future company outlook rose 14 points to 33.8, reaching its highest level since 2011." 4) The Institute for Supply Management-Milwaukee's latest survey fell to 60.57 in June from 63.49 in May. Economists were expecting a reading of 60.  5) In corporate news, General Motors announced the recall of 7.6 million more vehicles in the U.S., with the recall including model years from 1997 to 2014. Including vehicles recalled in Canada, the company is recalling more than 8.45 million vehicles, and GM also said it would take a $1.2 billion charge in the second quarter. This charge is up from the $700 million that was previously announced. Shares of GM were halted ahead of the announcement, and closed down about 1%.  6) Shares of wearable camera company GoPro gained more than 13%, adding to the stock's 14% gain on Friday to bring its post-IPO gains to more than 38%. GoPro made its debut on the Nasdaq last Thursday, and after its shares initially priced at $24, shares closed north of $40 today.  7) Today marked the final trading day of the second quarter, as well as the first half of the year, and so far mergers &amp; acquisitions activity is on pace for the strongest year since 2007. According to Goldman Sachs's David Kostin, M&amp;A activity totaled $750 billion through June, and if that annualized pace of $1.5 trillion continues through year-end, it would be the second-busiest year for M&amp;A since 2007. In 2007 there was nearly $1.6 trillion in M&amp;A activity, fueled largely by a leveraged-buyout boom. Don't Miss: Central Bank Analysts Say Stocks Are In 'Euphoric' Territory And We're Screwed When The Recession Hits » FREE AppDownload
BTC KeychainBitcoin prices are up more than 5% as it appears sales of the government's Bitcoin stash produced some bullish results. The U.S. Marshals service has not yet released the official results. But Barry Silbert, whose SecondMarket put together a syndicate of 42 bidders, just said they were all outbid. The auction was unlikely to have gone any other way, given that we are talking about a collection of wealthy Bitcoin bulls getting the chance to bid each-other up in a totally controlled environment. Still, assuming the nearly 30,000 coins the government was auctioning go for a premium, it'll make for some good headlines.  Coindesk FREE AppDownload
This morning we learned the three-month moving average for Chicago PMI climbed 2.2 to 63.7, the highest reading since the three months ending April 2011 (the actual figure for June missed expectations and came in behind). Deutsche Bank's Joe LaVorgna says this confirms we are in the midst of a "snapback" from an anomalous Q1 GDP contraction. In particular, he says, the growth sub-index of Chicago PMI is highly correlated with GDP readings.  Admittedly, the former did not accurately predict Q1’s terrible GDP performance (-2.9%), but neither did many other series such as nonfarm payrolls, retail sales or industrial production. The current gap between the two series—Chicago production and real GDP—is at a record wide reading—at least going back to 2000. In the past, when there was a yawning gap between the two variables (2011), real GDP snapped back, growing over 3% in the ensuing three quarters. Incidentally, 2011 was the last year in which we had a quarterly decline in GDP (-1.3% in Q1). We are expecting a similar economic profile this time around with GDP expected to expand by 3.8% over the remainder of this year.   LaVorgna now sees GDP in Q2, which ends today, coming in at 4.2%. Here's his chart plotting the production component of Chicago PMI against GDP: Deutsche Bank  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Rick WilkingThe U.S. flag flies at the Burt GM auto dealer in Denver June 1, 2009. General Motors is recalling another 7.6 million vehicles in the U.S.  Including vehicles recalled in Canada, the company is recalling 8.45 million vehicles.  The latest recall includes cars from the 1997 to 2014 model years. GM also said it expects to take a charge of up to $1.2 billion in Q2 due to this recall. This amount is in addition to the previously disclosed $700 million charge.  This chart from GM shows the vehicles involved in the last round of recalls.  General Motors Here's the full release from GM: DETROIT – General Motors announced today it will conduct six new safety recalls in the United States involving about 7.6 million vehicles from the 1997 to 2014 model years. "We undertook what I believe is the most comprehensive safety review in the history of our company because nothing is more important than the safety of our customers," said GM CEO Mary Barra. "Our customers deserve more than we delivered in these vehicles. That has hardened my resolve to set a new industry standard for vehicle safety, quality and excellence." Among these recalled vehicles, GM is aware of seven crashes, eight injuries and three fatalities. The fatal crashes occurred in older model full-size sedans being recalled for inadvertent ignition key rotation. There is no conclusive evidence that the defect condition caused those crashes. "We have worked aggressively to identify and address the major outstanding issues that could impact the safety of our customers," Barra said. "If any other issues come to our attention, we will act appropriately and without hesitation." GM has made changes to every process that affects the safety of its vehicles, and the company has acted or will act on all 90 of the recommendations put forward by former U.S. Attorney Anton Valukas in his independent report to the company's Board of Directors. GM expects to take a charge of up to approximately $1.2 billion in the second quarter for the cost of recall-related repairs announced in the quarter. This amount includes a previously disclosed $700 million charge for recalls already announced during the quarter. Until the ignition recall repairs have been performed, it is very important that customers remove all items from their key ring, leaving only the vehicle key, and always use their seat belts. The key fob, if present, should also be removed from the key ring. Shares of GM were down as much as 1.7% in afternoon trade. The stock was halted ahead of the announcement.  FREE AppDownload
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVYujiapu, in China's Tianjin Binhai New Area, was modeled on Manhattan and expected to become the financial center of the world.  But it languishes as many wasteful Chinese ghost cities have. At one point it was reported that the Juilliard School had signed an agreement to set up an institute in Yujiapu. And there were plans for a Rockefeller and Lincoln Center as well. But construction in this Manhattan hopeful has ground to a halt. According to Bloomberg's Steve Engle and Xin Zhou, a Tianjin local-government financing vehicle (LGFV) saw its revenue fall 68% last year and about a third of its debt will mature this year. Michael Hart, managing director at Jones Lang LaSalle Inc told Bloomberg that the local government can force some state-owned enterprises (SOEs) to be the first to occupy the abandoned buildings, but that it won't be easy to do. "It was a failure before it even started,” Gao Fei of Centaline Property told Rob Schmitz, China correspondent for Marketplace/American Public Media. “The most important thing for Tianjin’s government has always been a high GDP rate. That means the government has to spend a lot of money on huge projects like this one. In China, these kinds of wasteful projects are everywhere.” Schmitz previously told Business Insider that the ghost cities don't neatly fit into China's urbanization plans. Here are some images of Yujiapu from Bloomberg's Engle. Screenshot via Bloomberg"This 1,200 room five-star Country Garden Phoenix hotel is nothing but a shell," says Engle. The project was expected to be finished in 2012. Screenshot via BloombergIt was hoped that private developers would step in but they have been slow to join. Bloomberg TVThe slowing economy has made the Chinese ghost city problem only worse. Bloomberg TV"Construction work on Yujiapu, planned to be "the financial capital of the world," has been largely put on hold," according to Schmitz.Rob Schmitz/Marketplace/American Public RadioLaborers seen at a construction site of a residential compound in 2012 are largely gone now. REUTERS/Michael MartinaThis image from 2012 shows a proliferation of cranes when construction in Yujiapu was still booming. REUTERS/Michael Martina FREE AppDownload
While earning a college degree is still the best option for becoming financially successful, it no longer holds any sort of guaranteed financial payoff — indeed, a growing number of students may never put their Bachelor's degrees to use. In 2010, 17 million college graduates were categorized as underemployed — working jobs requiring a lower level of education or skills than what they were qualified for — according to analysis by Richard Vedder, director of the Center for College Affordability and Productivity, based on data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics. We checked in with Vedder to hear his latest thoughts on the underemployment crisis, and the outlook is not bright. "I don't see anything right now on the horizon that is going to change things," he says. Simply too many people are earning college degrees each year for the job market to keep up, according to Vedder. An average of 150,000 new grads enter the workforce per month, creating far more highly-qualified job seekers than there are high-paying jobs.  And this process isn't slowing down much if at all, Vedder says. A 2013 study by the Center for College Affordability and Productivity predicted that the number of college graduates entering the workforce each year will be more than double the number of jobs available that require at least a Bachelor's degree. centerforcollegeaffordability.org Similarly, out of the 20 fastest growing occupations, only four require a Bachelor's degree or higher, according to the CCAP's 2013 study. centerforcollegeaffordability.org The skyrocketing price of college tuition coupled with a weak market for high-paying jobs will leave many graduates in deep debt for years. No wonder student loans are the fastest-growing kind of debt. While Vedder believes that plans to relieve student loan debt are a step in the right direction, they serve as only a short-term solution to a long-term problem.  "To be a highly successful person in a financial sense of the word you still have to go to college, there's no doubt about that," Vedder says. "But it is true that the return on investment in a college education has declined. ... The central problem remains that college costs are rising faster than people's incomes are rising." FREE AppDownload
The Chinese Banking Regulatory Commission Management Committee confirmed this month that one of its staff, Li Jianhua, died of being overworked on April 23 — and has suggested that his fatal devotion to his job is a model for other Chinese workers. "He was a long-term overwork, eventually fell at work, at April 23, 2014, morning, sudden death, aged 48 years," the commission said in a statement (as translated by Google and confirmed by Bloomberg). He had been working all night to get a report done. Google's translation of the CBRC statement isn't great but you can get the gist: "To learn from Comrade Li Jianhua, as he does, always firm ideals and beliefs, this situation, loyal to the cause of the Party and the people, unremitting struggle, sacrifice everything. ... To enhance the quality of work, Comrade Li Jianhua long overtime, night and day, all the energy and passion into the regulatory business." The statement basically suggests that all Chinese can "learn from his selfless work." Here's the context, from Bloomberg: About 600,000 Chinese a year die from working too hard, according to the China Youth Daily. China Radio International in April reported a toll of 1,600 every day. ... Employees in Li’s department regularly worked until midnight or later, according to a colleague who asked not to be identified because he’s not authorized to speak publicly. His death, categorized as from “long-term overwork” by the CBRC, was the latest in a string of cases garnering media attention. Ogilvy PR's China unit last year denied that one of its workers was killed by the overtime he had worked in the prior month (he had actually been sick, the agency said). Asians even have a word for death-by-overtime: "guolaosi" in Chinese and "karoshi" in Japanese. It's not just an Asian phenom, of course. Last year, a 21-year-old Bank of America intern died in London after working long hours. Li apparently had an attack of shingles — which is sometimes related to stress — in the days before he died but did not go to the doctor because "he didn’t have any time,” Bloomberg says. FREE AppDownload
Getty Images, Charly Diaz Azcue/CON After the Supreme Court upheld a lower Court's ruling that Argentina must pay a group of hedge funds over $1.3 billion worth of bonds, it seemed the Republic was finally done fighting. But c'mon — after over a decade of Court battles, tons of heated political rhetoric, and the fact that President Fernandez was forced to fly private to avoid getting her jet impounded — did you really think Argentina was just going to roll over? “Argentina’s professed willingness to negotiate with its creditors has proven to be just another broken promise," said Jay Newman, senior portfolio manager at Elliott Management. "NML is at the table, ready to talk, but Argentina has refused to negotiate any aspect of this dispute. There are no negotiations underway, there have been no negotiations, and Argentina refuses to commit to negotiations in the future. Argentina’s government has chosen to put the country on the brink of default. We sincerely hope it reconsiders this dead-end path.” Doesn't sound like it at this point, though. One of President Fernandez's deputies, Carlos Kunkel, told the Argentine press that he was convinced that Judge Griesa — the man who handed down the ruling that the country must pay — is forcing negotiations because he'll get a cut of the payout. Classy. In case you missed last week's lack of action, Judge Griesa appointed a Special Master to facilitate negotiations, and Argentina vacillated between whether or not they would show up to the table (they don't have to, legally). Meanwhile, the Republic also tried to do exactly what it's not supposed to do according to Judge Griesa's ruling, and attempted pay bondholders who restructured the same debt that NML holds. If some parties get paid, everyone has to be paid, and at this point that all still has to happen by July 30th. Argentina tried to get a stay placed on that payment during these "negotiations" but that got thrown out last week as well. Based on Argentina's action, and transcripts of negotiations discussions reviewed by Business Insider, it's not hard to see why the Judge might be getting frustrated. Usually he's on vacation at his family ranch this time of year (something attorneys present at the negotiations apologized for). In the transcript, Judge Griesa acknowledged Argentina's greatest fear — that other parties that hold the same bonds NML does will try to get a full 100 cent on the dollar payout too. He ended the meeting by saying he wouldn't sign any orders to pay them for the time being, but that could change. With that calamity staring it in the face, Argentina has called a special meeting of the Organization of American States. The Fernandez administration knows that time is running out, and they'll likely try to use the body to put pressure on Judge Griesa to sign an order to stay payment until "negotiations" are finished. The negotiations would probably have to start first, though. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlo AllegriJanet Yellen: problem neighbor. According to a report in The Wall Street Journal, Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen's security detail is causing quite a disruption in her exclusive gated community in Georgetown.  Yellen lives in Hillandale, which The Journal says is governed by, "50 pages of rules banning fences, motorcycles, certain paint colors, tree species and excess dogs and cats (no more than two total per household)." But when Yellen moved in, her detail and its "doughnut bellies" upset the community's order.  From WSJ:  "As neighbors tell it, earlier this year, the security detail protecting new Federal Reserve Chairwoman Janet Yellen barreled through the cul-de-sac where she lives in oversize vans loaded with guns, cameras and takeout pizza. It established an 'armed camp' next door to [Hillandale resident Sallie Forman's] townhome, according to a written bill of grievances presented by concerned neighbors deeming the uniformed police presence 'uncomfortable for residents of various religious persuasions,' such as Quakers." The community's grievances against Yellen's detail also said 7,000 pound trucks idle in the street for 22 minutes a day, and that another truck "speedily pulls out of the security driveway...all the while spilling fluid onto the street, which has now left a permanent stain." Hillandale bylaws, the Journal notes, "expressly prohibit car fluid spills in the common areas." As chair of the Federal Reserve, Yellen is the most important banker in the world, and it doesn't seem outlandish to have a large security detail ensuring her safety. But according to the Journal, some residents like William Shawn, an attorney who lives down the street from Yellen, are wondering if all this muscle is needed, "to protect an unarmed economist from Brooklyn?" FREE AppDownload
Business Insider / Jillian D'Onfro The Associated Press will soon have artificial intelligence churning out 4,400 earnings reports per quarter, a time-frame in which human reporters could could write up just 300. "For many years, we have been spending a lot of time crunching numbers and rewriting information from companies to publish approximately 300 earnings reports each quarter," said Lou Ferrara, the Managing Editor of the AP. "We discovered that automation technology, from a company called Automated Insights, paired with data from Zacks Investment Research, would allow us to automate short stories – 150 to 300 words — about the earnings of companies in roughly the same time that it took our reporters." In a Monday announcement, the AP said they will not be slashing jobs as a result, and added reporters who previously had to spend time crunching earnings reports will be freed up to write enterprise stories on what the numbers mean. The technology, which is a program from Automated Insights that is paired with data from Zacks Investment Research, will go live in July. "This is about using technology to free journalists to do more journalism and less data processing, not about eliminating jobs," Ferrara said. "Most of the staff has been receptive to the effort and involved for the past few months of discussion." The use of robots to perform journalistic tasks is nothing new, as the AP has automated sports statistics into its stories for years. However, this service will be the first to write complete stories. “We flipped the standard content creation model on its head,” Automated Insights CEO Robbie Allen told Poynter’s Sam Kirkland earlier this year. “The standard way of creating content is, ‘I hope a million people read this.’ Our model is the inverse of that. We want to create a million pieces of content with one individual reading each copy. Robots are increasingly making their presence felt in the news industry. Recently, Japan unveiled the world's first robot newscaster, who can read through the teleprompter without stumbling. Also, in March, the Los Angeles Times used a robot to write the initial report on an earthquake FREE AppDownload
Gas prices are near their highest levels in a year, about $3.67 a gallon, as troubles in Iraq have been causing oil futures to pop.  But it could be way worse for U.S. drivers. Thanks to the U.S. shale boom, global balances have remained largely in tact despite outages elsewhere. Plus, there still hasn't been a major outage of Iraqi barrels since April, when a pipeline into Turkey came under attack. Here's the percent-change-from-year-ago chart via FRED. We are just 3% above where we were this time last year: FREDAnd another view, from AAA. 2014 is in red. The agency says we're looking at the highest July 4 gas price levels since 2008 — but again, we've already been at higher levels earlier this year.  "Market concerns about a supply disruption in Iraq are calming," said Mark Jenkins, spokesman, AAA. AAAWhile traders are hedging in case things take a turn for the worse in the Middle East, for now we are not seeing anything terribly out of the ordinary. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Alessandro BianchiAlcoa is set to report earnings on Tuesday, July 8 and its report is typically regarded the beginning of corporate "earnings season."Second quarter earnings seasons is almost upon us. To get ready for the torrent of corporate earnings report, Morgan Stanley's Adam Parker is out with a note outlining a few of the things he and his team will be looking for as companies update investors on their progress, and give clues as to how the economy is really doing. At the top of the list: demand. Via Parker: "Signposts: During this earnings season, we want to hear management commentary on the level of both consumer and industrial demand. Using GDP to measure economic conditions is confusing. Did companies experience a Q2 rebound in activity after the US economy slowed more sharply than expected in Q1? In the same vein, we want to see if revenues can again exceed consensus expectations after beating them in the past four quarters. We are also on the watch for any company statements regarding the recent rise in the price of Brent, and what it might mean for costs in coming quarters. We will continue to monitor capital spending announcements (including backlog age and size and book-to-bill ratios in the technology and industrial sectors), inventory levels, and hiring as we remain focused on what costs are put in place by companies and whether this could introduce any volatility in 2H 2014 EPS estimates. Capital spending remains a critical investment debate, and we are looking for signs that companies within technology, industrials, and consumer see the need to add capacity. Overall, we maintain that capex-to-sales levels, particularly if we exclude energy and utilities, will at most rise only modestly." As for the earnings themselves, Parker notes that Q2 estimates have been lowered relative to analysts' expectations, and the bar appears low enough to clear. "Q2 2014 earnings expectations have seen downward revisions, and with the decline in estimates, we expect reported results to show modest upside as companies once again clear the lowered bar. Earnings for the group of companies reporting prior to Alcoa have been slightly above estimates. The sample size is small, but beats from FDX, ADBE, and MU have more than offset misses from ORCL, GIS, and DRI. For these companies, the market is rewarding companies that beat consensus earnings and revenue estimates and is punishing misses." Parker notes that for Q2, the ratio of negative to positive guidance is 2.9, meaning there have been three instances of negative guidance for each instance of positive guidance. And due to this lowered bar for Q2 earnings, Parker expects companies, on net, to beat expectations. This chart from Morgan Stanley shows the ratio of negative to positive guidance, which in Q2 was slightly above the historical average. Morgan Stanley And while estimates for the second quarter have been reduced, Parker expects a further trimming in earnings expectations for 2014 and 2015. Parker estimates that the S&amp;P 500 will earn $116 per share in 2014 and $123 in 2015, while analysts currently expect earnings of $120 and $133 for 2014 and 2015, respectively. But for 30 of the 38 year forward earnings estimates have been available, Parker notes that consensus expectations have been too high. Here's where expectations currently stand. Morgan Stanley   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonJust over one in four (26%) of Americans does not have any emergency savings, according to a new Bankrate.com report. While it is recommended that consumers have six months' worth of expenses saved, 67% reported having saved less than that amount. Even worse, half of the respondents have saved less than three months' expenses. The percentage of Americans with at least three months' expenses in savings declined from 45% last year to just 40% this year. "Americans continue to show a stunning lack of progress in accumulating sufficient emergency savings," said Greg McBride, CFA, Bankrate.com's chief financial analyst. "Even among the highest-income households - those with annual income of $75,000 or above - fewer than half or 46% currently have a six-month savings cushion." People between the ages of 30 and 49 are more likely than any other age group to have no emergency savings since they are faced with rising household expenses such as mortgages, student loans and car payments while their wages have stagnated, he said. "You have to pay yourself first," McBride said. "Don't wait until the end of the month. Set up a direct deposit to go into a dedicated savings account so you get your savings accomplished right off the bat. It also forces you to live off less than you make, which is the essence of building wealth over time." The survey found that 18- to 30-year-olds are the most likely to have up to five months' expenses saved up since they might have the benefit of lower expenses due to having roommates, living with their parents or being students, he said. "You have to give credit where credit is due," McBride said. "They have had a front row seat to the recession. They have learned the importance of putting some money away and have followed through. That bodes well for their futures." Some people lack having an emergency savings fund now because they were forced to draw down on it at one point during the recession, periods of unemployment or income reduction, he said. "Getting there requires the discipline of saving on a regular basis," McBride said. "Americans have never been good savers. The key is to be in the habit of saving and establishing that habit is a big first step in that right direction." Bankrate.com also announced that its Financial Security Index rebounded to 101.5, which indicates improvement over one year ago. Job security bounced back from a negative reading last month. Currently, 24% of Americans feel more secure in their jobs than they did 12 months ago versus 17% who feel less secure. May's bout of employment insecurity now stands out as an anomaly amid upbeat attitudes on job security in six of the past seven months. Americans' comfort level with debt also recovered after two months of discomfort. Some 23% are more comfortable than they were in June 2013, and 20% said they are less comfortable. Among the Financial Security Index's other three components, net worth and overall financial situation are areas of strength, particularly as the stock market continues setting new record highs. Savings remains a weak spot and has been in negative territory every month since polling began in December 2010. Daniella DiMartino, a 26-year-old account executive at a public relations firm in Westchester, N.Y., said she allocates $100 each month from her paycheck to sock away in a higher-yielding savings account for emergencies. Since her start-up firm does not offer a 401(k) plan yet, DiMartino feels it is her job to ensure she has both emergency and retirement funds in the future. "Having savings is so important," she said. "I didn't have a single cent saved prior to graduating from college." Deanna Smith, 28, a junior art director at Colangelo in Darien, Conn., said Millennials have a tougher time establishing emergency savings. "With rising costs, student loans and settling for lower salaries, our generation needs to save more money for homes, children, vacations and life experiences," she said. "Emergencies are a secondary thought. It is important but most people in our generation do not have that opportunity." Until a "terrible" roommate situation about 18 months occurred, Zack Durkin, 27, an operations analyst in employment for the State of New York Metropolitan Transportation Authority, said he didn't have an emergency fund. He was forced to break his lease early and move out within days of the incident. The incident was a "wake up call to always have cash stored just in case," he said. Now he saves when he can, so that if anything pops up, he has a small cushion and plans to add to it for future situations. Investors should have three to six months of monthly expenses in a savings account or money market fund said Kimberly Clouse, chief client advocate at Covestor, an online marketplace for investing with offices in Boston and London. "Everyone should create an emergency fund and it's even more critical for entrepreneurs and other earners who may not have a steady income," she said. An emergency fund allows you to use cash to pay for those random expenses or emergencies that arise in your financial life, instead of creating more debt or tapping into long-term investments, Clouse said. "You want to be able to tap into these funds easily, but you don't want to tap them unless you really need to," she said. While investors may be reluctant to hold cash in a low-rate environment when their purchasing power can be eroded by inflation, cash has other uses aside from income. It also gives investors a reserve of buying power and additional flexibility, Clouse said. FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg SurveillanceWall Street banks are obsessed with being the best, but a Bloomberg Surveillance segment explains why being "the best" and being number one might not be one in the same. When asked about the costs of moving up the league tables, Brad Hintz, a bank analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein &amp; Co. used a conversation he once had at Morgan Stanley to illustrate why no bank on Wall Street really wants be at the top. Here's the transcription of what Hintz said (emphasis added): “I walked into a Morgan Stanley CEO Dick Fisher’s office, and John Mack was with him. Mack and Fisher were arguing about dead capital markets. And Fisher was worried about declining market share. Mack says, ‘Dick, if you want me to sell $5 bills for $4.95, I can get a long line down sixth avenue.' Now what he’s saying is, you can buy market share. But what it’s going to do, is you’re in essence giving away money to do it. So some market share is good, some market share is unnecessary and expensive.”  It's a pretty simple concept, quality over quantity. Not always easy to explain that to shareholders, though. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsTunguskaToday is the 106th anniversary of a historic explosion that still has no clear explanation. It happened in Tunguska, a remote forest area in the middle of Siberia. The blast had the power of 15 megatons of TNT, roughly a thousand times that of the atomic bomb dropped on Hiroshima Japan.  The event was so powerful that it was felt and heard a thousand miles away. Locals believed the blast was supernatural, caused by a god that was punishing people for their wickedness. Scientists, on the other hand, believed it was a meteor. Here's Where It Gets Weird 20 years passed before the first Russian scientists went to the site to investigate. If it was a meteor, there would be a crater and meteorite fragments. However, there was no crater. And there were no fragments. In fact, at the epicenter of the explosion was a grove of untouched, fully grown trees.  Surrounding that tiny grove was around 800 square miles of leveled trees. The blast had the hallmarks of an atomic bomb-like explosion.  However, no scientific progress had been made in the area of nuclear weapons until the 1930s, more than two decades after the event. Two Theories Scientists believe that a football field-sized, solid ice chunk of a comet entered the earth atmosphere.  When it encountered earth's intense atmospheric pressure, it immediately exploded miles above the forest.  Because it was made of ice, it left no extraterrestrial evidence. Others believe it was caused by something much smaller: a nuclear-powered alien spaceship that crashed into the earth. A hundred years later, neither side seems to have fully convinced the other camp. But in today's Cashin's Comments, UBS's Art Cashin pointed to a problem with the scientists' theory: But science seems to miss a key point at the time.  There were lots of astronomers and telescopes.  They were busy finding new planets, like Pluto.  Or they were plotting new comet paths and the like.  If they were all so smart, how did all these clever astronomers miss something so large headed for the earth. Mystery, unsolved. SEE ALSO: Business Insider's Brand New Science Vertical &gt; FREE AppDownload
With help from Euromonitor, we've uncovered the Top 10 beer brands in the world. In this world cup of brewing "American" beers are competitive, but come nowhere close to the top: AdYou're looking at perhaps the only recession-proof beer on the planet. While light lagers lost a step around the globe and, particularly, in the U.S., Coors Light managed to gain ground. Even as MolsonCoors/SABMiller joint venture MillerCoors saw sales drop as overall U.S. beer sales fell in four of the past five years, Coors Light production and market has surged. MolsonCoors has had to look to other avenues, including its Blue Moon line of beers, just to make up for other light lager losses — including a slumping Miller Lite and Miller High Life. But Coors Light has grabbed a nearly 9% share of the market. By 2011, it had leapfrogged Budweiser to become the No. 2 beer in the U.S. Of the Top 5 U.S. beers, Coors Light was the only one to see sales improve since 2010. It's the one "domestic" premium light lager that U.S. drinkers still buy in increasing supply and is the fastest-growing domestic light lager brand in the U.S. not named Pabst Blue Ribbon. Wikimedia CommonsBrazil is an absolutely massive beer market, as Anheuser-Busch InBev well knows. Not only does it have a headquarters in Sao Paolo, but its sponsorship of the FIFA World Cup and considerable influence on the soccer governing body helped push Brazil to lift a ban on stadium beer sales for World Cup events. Brahma's history dates back to 1888, but A-B didn't begin pushing it internationally until 2005. It is now sold in the U.S., Canada, the United Kingdom, Russia, France, Australia and about 10 other countries. It's regularly among the top beer brands in Brazil and is a huge favorite in a country where 98% of all beer sold is pilsner. Though Brazil still trails North American and European countries in per capita beer consumption, the total amount of beer it consumes each year ranks it third among beer-drinking nations and ahead of Russia and Germany. As a result, this isn't the last time Brazil will pop up on this list. Wikimedia CommonsWelcome to China's fourth-largest brewery and perhaps the biggest prize in the battle for global beer consolidation. Dating back to 1900, Harbin got its start under a Russian-Polish brewer, was taken over by a team of Czechs and Chinese, fell into the hands of the Soviets and eventually was owned by China itself. The pale lager recipe held to its core of water, malt and Chinese hops, but dabbled occasionally in rice and corn as adjunct ingredients. Back in 2003, SABMiller bought itself a nearly 30% share of the brewery just to open up the Chinese market. A-B InBev didn't like that and decided to buy the whole thing a year later. It's one of the few foreign-owned Chinese brewers, which is what made battle for it between A-B and Miller so dire. At stake was a Chinese beer market that drinks some of the least beer per capita of any beer-drinking nation, but consumes the most beer in the world: Almost double the amount of the U.S. Expect to see China's beers a lot more as this list progresses. viZZZual.com/FlickrThe recession hammered Heineken a bit in the U.S., but it's been back on track both here and abroad since 2012. U.S. production is up over the past two years while market share has held steady at 2% or so. Overseas, it's been even more successful as markets in Africa, Latin America and the Pacific have all latched on to its brand. That green bottle and red star do the heavy lifting, but there's a lot going on behind that brand name. Heineken is best known for its eponymous brand and Amstel Light, but it also controls Newcastle, Moretti, Zywiec, Affigem, Fosters, Murphy's, Krusovice, Beamish and Tiger Beer. Its headquarters is in Amsterdam, but its operations and beer are spread throughout the globe. As the third-largest brewer behind SABMiller and A-B InBev, it's a lot bigger than its flagship beer's place on this list suggests. Wikimedia CommonsHarbin has a huge multinational brewer behind it and still somehow manages to be smaller than Yanjing. Beijing Yanjing doesn't have an enormous presence in China, with roughly 10% of its market, but it's enormous in Beijing. More than 80% of the city's beer drinkers choose it and its signs were plastered all over the city as the official beer of the 2008 Beijing Olympics. But that's not enough. Yanjing has made it clear that it wants an international presence and is willing to skip the 90% of China that doesn't know it and go straight to the rest of the world. It's built an empire of the strength of one city, but getting yet another pale lager out to the rest of the world could be a tougher challenge. Flickr/Rod SennaThere was a time making a beer that looked and tasted the same all over the world wasn't just A-B InBev's strategy for the Budweiser brand. In the 1960s, back when Anheuser-Busch was still just chugging along in St. Louis, a team of British, Canadian, Swedish and German breweries tried to create a global beer brand that would provide a fallback option for beer drinkers around the world. The beer was eventually brewed by Carlsberg in the U.K., by Belgium's Unibra in Africa and by Brahma in Brazil. When A-B InBev took over Brahma, it gave the beer a huge push in Brazil and made it one of the nation's top sellers right next to Brahma. If you go down to Brazil and ask beer drinkers about it, they'll insist it's a Brazilian brand. In fact, it's garnered a bit of a reputation in a few other countries as a Brazilian brand. In honesty, it was born without a nation and continues to exist in other countries as a beer of suspect origins. While A-B InBev and SABMiller brands at least started in other countries before being bought up by multinational brewers, Skol is a multinational beer without a country. Brazil can claim it, but consider it Budweiser long before A-B's Bud got its passport. Speaking of which, there's just about no reason to consider Budweiser an "American" beer anymore. Beyond the acquisition of Anheuser-Busch by InBev in 2008, Budweiser's popularity in the U.S. has been on the skids for years. In the late 1980s, it accounted for nearly 25% of all beer sold here. By 2012, that market share dropped to below 8%. Sales of the Budweiser brand have boomed in Latin America and China, but have fallen flat here as production slumped below that of Bud Light and Coors Light and is drifting into Miller Lite territory. Still, it's sold in more than 85 countries around the world and has a large global market it can tap. Just don't count much of Europe in that territory. A-B InBev can sell this beer there, but Czech brewer Budejovicky Budvar owns the trademark rights to Budweiser there. In large swaths of Europe — including Germany and the Czech Republic — A-B's product is just "Bud." screenshot www.budlight.comAbout one out of every five beers sold in the U.S. is a Bud Light. It's only been around since 1982, but Bud Light's presence in the U.S. and around the world is enormous. With the additions of Bud Light Platinum, Bud Light Lime, Bud Light Chelada and Bud Light Straw-Ber-Ita, A-B has only expanded the reach of the brand while dipping a toe into super premium beers and flavored malt beverages. Bud Light has seen sales and market share in the U.S. ebb away since the recession, but U.S. drinkers still consume twice as much of it as they do the No. 2 beer in the nation — Coors Light. It has a long lead to lose in the No. 2 beer-consuming nation in the world. Any sales it can muster in any other corner of the globe are just a bonus. Wikimedia CommonsYou can credit Tsingtao's 15% share of the Chinese market with its huge global popularity, but it's this beer's longtime international presence that's made it an international powerhouse. Tsingtao has been brewed since 1904, but began exporting its products 50 years later. The first bottles of it began arriving in the U.S. in 1972 and its been a staple of bottle shop import shelves and restaurant beer menus here for more than 40 years. Once owned by China itself, Tsingtao went private in 1990 and was owned partially by A-B InBev in 2009. A-B only had a 30% stake and when it was clear it would never be able to take over the brewer, it sold off its share to local interests. That's right: This is the big brewery that A-B couldn't get its mitts on. Its 4.1% of the global beer market seems tiny compared with A-B's 20.6%, but just consider that MolsonCoors' stake is 3.6%. A-B had to walk away from buying the Chinese equivalent of MolsonCoors, and Tsingtao's light lager is none the worse for it. Wikimedia CommonsThis beer didn't exist 21 years ago and is now the biggest beer in the world. Such is the strength of the Chinese beer market. Produced by the SABMiller/China Resources Enterprises joint effort CR Snow, there's really nothing incredibly special about this pale lager. A fizzy, yellow, 3.9% alcohol by volume beer brewed with mild Saaz hops from the Czech Republic, Snow is just your basic light lager with a bit less potency. Yet it's the most popular beer in China by a long stretch. It takes 80 breweries just to meet demand, and China Resources Enterprises just keeps adding more. You're not going to see it at the World Cup in Brazil and it's not exactly ubiquitous here in the U.S., but it's a prime example of what a brewer can do when there's an untapped market just waiting for it. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Rick Wilking Legg Mason's Bill MillerA new profile of Bill Miller hit the Wall Street Journal yesterday and boy is it a doozy. If I were teaching a course on behavioral investing, and had lost access to all of the curriculum’s text books for a week, I could probably get by just on pull-quotes from this piece.  Something happens to investors when they get around a stock picking manager who’s managed to string  together a few years of market outperformance – they become giddier than a drunken bachelorette party hanging on the neck of a Vegas magician who happens by their table at the bar (I’ve seen this in real life, long story). For the uninitiated – Bill Miller’s Legg Mason Value Trust shattered every record on the books by trouncing the S&amp;P 500 for fifteen straight years between 1991 and 2005. And then the fund demolished all the benefit of that fifteen years of outperformance within a two-year period, between 2007 and 2009. It hardly needs to be said that the vast majority of the Value Trust’s assets came in toward the top of this record streak – meaning the average dollar invested became a loser even despite all the glory of the track record on its surface. The entire article is hilarious – through no fault of the reporter, Kirsten Grind, or the subject, Miller himself – whom I regard as a brilliant, if flawed icon of the investment management business. The story here just inadvertently exemplifies every single flaw and fallacy of the investor mentality. I mean, the headline alone:  And now, a running list of our flaws as investors – which find a way to manifest themselves even when we think we’re aware enough to get them under control: 1. We’re confusing brains with a bull market, ascribing some sort of meaning to Bill Miller’s “comeback”: Over the last three years, though, Mr. Miller’s Legg Mason Opportunity Trust has outperformed 97% of the mutual funds in its category, according to research firm Morningstar Inc. It was No. 1 in 2012 and second-best in 2013. Its total return of 67% last year trounced the S&amp;P 500 stock index’s 32% jump. As though anyone making big bets on a concentrated portfolio in one of the greatest stock rallies of all time couldn’t have done this. 2. We’re acting as though Miller’s behavior during the crisis wasn’t true of almost all long-only value managers: Lots of mutual-fund managers took a beating during the crisis, but none so publicly as Mr. Miller. As his Legg Mason Capital Management Value Trust fund sank to the bottom of the rankings, fleeing investors shrank its assets to $2.8 billion from $21 billion. He refused to  on shaken financial firms like Bear Stearns Cos. and American International Group Inc., which were then nearly wiped out. With all due respect, value investors don’t cut losses when they’re running money in the public eye – they double down and “ignore price”, focusing on value and why “the market is wrong.” Third Avenue’s Marty Whitman blew up in the crisis, as did Fairholme’s Bruce Berkowitz, as did almost all of the other “legendary” value mutual fund managers. 3. We’re lauding Miller for his guts and having balls – with other people’s money: His resurgence largely reflects more of the same: steadfastness in his beliefs, a stock-picking strategy dominated by big bets on beaten-down companies, and comfort taking risks that frighten away other investors. 4. Investors, who fled the fund en masse, are back to throwing money at Bill Miller, now that he’s gotten his groove back. Opportunity Trust brought in a net $189 million last year, the fund’s first increase since 2007, and money has kept coming in so far this year, boosting total assets to $2.2 billion. Classic performance chasing behavior. He’ll be back up at another peak in AUM just as his performance is about to mean-revert back down to the category average or just as the global economy is once again set to explode into a million pieces again. Dollar-weighted mutual fund returns are always hilarious. 5. This time is different: Since the horrible losing streak, Mr. Miller has read a pile of books and research papers about crises in hopes of getting a better grip on what happened. That should do the trick. 6. No comment: Before the crisis hit, he attracted $1 billion to $1.5 billion a year in new investor money. Legg Mason didn’t publicly disclose his pay, but Mr. Miller’s annual salary likely topped $10 million. In 2006, he bought a 235-foot yacht called “Utopia.” Bridget Hughes, a mutual-fund analyst at Morningstar, says Mr. Miller was “so famous” among investors, “and then everything just fell apart.” The Morningstar analyst quoted neglects to mention that Value Trust’s backward-looking rating on the fund at the time was undoubtedly “Five Stars”. 7. Industry professionals aren’t immune either – Legg Mason got out of “the Bill Miller business” at the bottom and left him with a smaller role at the firm and a less important fund to manage: Value Trust rebounded sharply, but it was too little, too late. In 2011, Legg Mason named a successor to Mr. Miller, saying the move was part of a long-term succession plan hatched before the crisis. 8. Bill Miller is betting big once again: He says he is trying to take advantage of “blindingly obvious” trends. One-third of the Opportunity Trust fund’s portfolio is invested in financial firms, with another 14% tied to the housing market. If it works out, he will be a genius again and double his assets under management. If it doesn’t, well, brokers will “manage the manager” by firing the fund and just start recommending a new one. There’s very little downside for everyone involved. Except the investors. Same as it ever was. Source: Mutual-Fund King Bill Miller Makes Comeback (Wall Street Journal) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/BeawihartaMarkets are mixed after the first batch of economic data on this busy holiday-shortened week. The Dow is up 1 point, the S&amp;P 500 is up 2 points, and the Nasdaq is up 8 points. On the economic data front, the June Chicago PMI report came in at 62.6, a bit below expectations for a 63 reading. This was also worse than the 65.5 reading in May. Following the report, Ian Shepherdson said, "In one line: Heavily influence by Boeing orders, but positive nonetheless." Housing data beat expectations, as pending home sales jumped 6.1% in May. Economists were expecting home sales to climb 1.2%. The Dallas Fed's latest manufacturing survey came in at 11.4, beating expectations for a reading of 8.5. The Institute for Supply Management-Milwaukee's report for June fell to 60.57 from 63.49 in May. Expectations were for a reading a 60. In corporate news, GoPro shares are surging again, gaining as much as 10% in morning trade. Over the weekend, Goldman Sachs's David Kostin noted that merger activity is on pace to total $1.5 trillion this year, which would trail only 2007. FREE AppDownload
If the recent layoffs and pay cuts on Wall Street have you worried, a former Wall Streeter's startup may be able to keep you ahead of the game. Launched in June, Roletroll is a job matching platform that pairs your resume and interests with relevant job openings. Founder and former Wall Street quant Adam Grealish created the algorithm after the 2008 financial meltdown put him out of work. Months of manually searching for job postings wasn't getting Grealish anywhere, so he decided to create a matching algorithm to find job openings that suited him. The project ended up landing him a job at Goldman Sachs in the summer of 2010.  The algo turned into a side project, but eventually market conditions made it too good a project not to take on full time. The need for matching algorithms was creating new opportunities in tech, while increased regulation was starting to limit big banks' returns on Wall Street. "In aggregate, the job market was getting stronger, we were coming out of eight percent unemployment. It felt like companies were starting to thaw out in general," Grealish explained. "That said, within banking in particular, the outlook was a little grim." Grealish was reluctant to leave Wall Street, but he says the opportunities at the time pointed to Roletroll. LinkedIn was gaining traction, and actually bought Role Troll competitor Bright.com earlier this year for $120 million. U.K. competitor, Jobandtalent reported plans to move into the U.S. by the beginning of 2014.  Grealish likes to describe Roletroll as a "set and forget" solution, so users can passively keep an eye on the job market. Role Troll can also provide a handy point of reference when negotiating pay. One Bank of America trader told Grealish that he uses it to find out about all the jobs in his space.  After uploading your resume, Roletroll sends you job openings based on your skills. It learns from what jobs you like, and adjusts to suit your preferences. You can also input key words and interests, if you're looking to make a career change.  After some time Grealish noticed that Roletroll didn't just help people find jobs, it told him things about the job market as a whole. Data from Roletroll is supporting bleak reports that work in finance is very hard to find right now. In the last year, finance listings have decreased by 15 percent. Meanwhile, tech jobs are on the rise. Role TrollFinance listings are down 15% in a year, whereas tech listings are up 7%. Role Troll data also shows a shift of finance positions moving to San Francisco. Role TrollSan Francisco is adding more finance listings than other large cities, including New York. In August 2010, Grealish could see via his algorithm that the market going up, coming out of the crisis. But after about three months, he went from a slew of good matches to virtually nothing.   "Having hard data to back up what you're hearing and rumors on the street is hugely valuable, particularly to anyone in finance, [who have] a quantitative or data-driven bend to them in some way," Grealish said. "Second, for users it offers a unique insight, because the implications could be very different. As much as there are secular trends going on, desks are hiring from time to time as they need new people. It gives you a hyper personalized view of the job market, which at the end of the day is all you really care about." For example, Roletroll data shows Fixed Income jobs down 10 percent, but developer and quant jobs outpacing traditional trading role within the sector. Role TrollDev/quant roles are up 5% this year, whereas trading jobs are down 23%.  So far the bootstrapped startup reports over five million individual job matches and over hundreds of thousands of individual matches. Grealish plans to monetize by offering a premium service for job seekers, and advertising positions for paying companies. So worst comes to worst, at least you'll be able keep your options open. And know exactly when they're dwindling away. FREE AppDownload
APCaroline Kennedy grew up to be the U.S. ambassador to Japan.The first kids of U.S. presidents dictate fashion trends, jet set around the world meeting dignitaries, and sometimes host senior prom in the White House East Room. You know, normal kid stuff. But when their parent's term is up and the first family departs 1600 Pennsylvania Ave., the spotlight typically turns away from them. To celebrate the Fourth of July — which happens to be Malia Obama's birthday — we checked out what the first children are up to these days. FREE AppDownload
Getty ImagesThe Dallas Fed's latest manufacturing outlook survey is out, and the numbers look good. The headline index jumped to 11.4 in June from 8.0 in May. Economists were looking for a reading of 8.5. Here's more color from the report: The production index, a key measure of state manufacturing conditions, rose from 11 to 15.5, indicating output grew at a faster pace than in May. Other measures of current manufacturing activity also reflected growth in June. The new orders index rose from 3.8 to 6.5 but remained below the levels seen earlier in the year. The capacity utilization index held steady at 9.2. The shipments index came in at 10.3, similar to its May level, with nearly a third of manufacturers noting an increase in volumes. Perceptions of broader business conditions were more optimistic this month. The general business activity index rose from 8 to 11.4. The majority of respondents noted no change from May levels, although some 20 percent noted an increase in activity. The company outlook index rose 4 points to 8.4 after falling sharply last month. Labor market indicators reflected stronger employment growth and longer workweeks. The June employment index rebounded to 13.1 after dipping to 2.9 in May. Twenty-one percent of firms reported net hiring compared with 8 percent reporting net layoffs. The hours worked index edged up from 2.8 to 4.7, indicating a slightly stronger rise in hours worked than last month. Upward pressure on prices and wages was seen in June. The raw materials price index posted a second strong positive reading this month and inched up to 27.3. The finished goods price index rose slightly as well but remained in single digits, at 7.4. Looking ahead, 39 percent of respondents anticipate further increases in raw materials prices over the next six months, while 30 percent expect higher finished goods prices. The wages and benefits index edged down for the second month in a row, coming in at 18.8, but still suggested a rise in compensation costs. Expectations regarding future business conditions were more optimistic in June. The index of future general business activity rose 7 points to 18.7, while the index of future company outlook rose 14 points to 33.8, reaching its highest level since 2011. Indexes for future manufacturing activity also pushed further into positive territory. Here's a breakdown of the subindices. Dallas Fed FREE AppDownload
Flickr/studio*chaosThe immensity of ambitious goals can distort your perspective to make them seem impossible to reach. What's better? Just get rid of them altogether--starting with your "to-do list." When you're caught in a rut of distortion and discouragement, exhausted from running as fast as you can to gain some ground, to-do lists can just add to the crush of anxiety that you're not doing enough. Even Marc Andreessen, with his tremendous career milestones of starting Netscape, Ning, Opsware, and Andreessen Horowitz, wasn't impervious to such feelings of losing direction and motivation amidst the busy hours: "[W]hen you're running around all day and doing stuff and talking to people and making calls and responding to emails and filling out paperwork ... you get home and you're completely exhausted and you say to yourself, 'What the hell did I actually get done today?'" He came up with a simple solution for understanding what he actually got done every day: writing it down. Every time Andreessen did something he considered productive or useful, he recorded it on a done list, which he irreverently called his "Anti-To-do list." While the to-do list has its place in organizing your tasks, having a better understanding of what you accomplish is more important than you'd think. It's an often overlooked source of motivation. As Andreessen explains, the motivation rush happens when you write down what you get done and also when you review your growing done list: "you get that little rush of endorphins that the mouse gets every time he presses the button in his cage and gets a food pellet. And then at the end of the day... take a look at today's ... Anti-Todo list and marvel at all the things you actually got done." Disconnecting your done list from your to-do list provides fresh context, insight from all the information you can capture about your day, and a better understanding of how you define productivity. When you can acknowledge your achievements for the day like Andreessen and Gascoigne, you gain rushes of encouragement and motivation without getting demoralized by what's left on your plate. It turns our emotions make a big difference in how you get stuff done and that's a fact that surprisingly gets overlooked. Positive moods such as feeling encouraged and motivated promote problem-solving and improve creativity and decision-making. The most powerful way to feed those positive moods is to make progress. Harvard Business School professor Teresa Amabile and psychologist Steven Kramer, who wrote about this finding in The Progress Principle, discovered that even small wins count in fueling your drive and engagement. This positive fuel turns out to get some pretty good mileage too. As Amabile and Kramer also discovered, positive emotions have a powerful carryover effect. "The more positive a person's mood on a given day, the more creative thinking he did the next day--and, to some extent, the day after that--even taking into account his moods on those later days." Contrary to how positivity broadens your creativity and motivation, negativity narrows them, which can cause your productivity to plummet. Emotions such as fear, anxiety, and sadness influence how you work--narrowing your thought patterns to weaken memory, planning and decision-making. Plus we really don't work well under stress. Amabile and Kramer disproved this pervasive management myth of "no pressure, no diamonds" that infects people's understanding of how motivation works. Analyzing nearly 12,000 work diary entries, they correlated descriptions of progress and setbacks to self-reported levels of happiness and frustration. They found that the impact of setbacks on lowering your motivation is three times as powerful as the positive power of progress to fuel it. If we can recognize that our feelings are heading into a negative feedback loop of low motivation and productivity--we can take control and break out of the loop to catch a wave of positive drive. The simple yet counterintuitive act of writing down what you get done is a powerful antidote to unproductive, negative feelings. When you fail to recognize how much you actually accomplish, it's much easier to lose perspective, succumb to feelings of failure and guilt, and burn out. The gain for Andreessen was great. "I love this technique," he writes. "Being able to put more notches on my accomplishment belt, so to speak, by writing down things on my Anti-Todo list as I accomplish them throughout the day makes me feel marvelously productive and efficient. Far more so than if I just did those things and didn't write them down." Successful people reach achievements by balancing their outlook to stick out the bad and ugly times. Recognize all kinds of forward steps, wins of all sizes, which happen regularly thanks to your efforts, rather than harnessing all your hopes on big milestones. Your done list will serve as a regular practice of rejuvenation and inspiration after a hard-day's work that can carry you to accomplishing wonderful things. FREE AppDownload
LouLouPhotos / Shutterstock.comGM will offer at least $1 million for each death determined to have been caused by faulty ignition switches, the New York Times reports. Ken Feinberg, the compensation expert hired by the automaker to determine payouts related to its massive recall, said GM has agreed that there will be no cap on claim amounts. He also said the criteria for deciding payouts will be broad, a signal there are likely to be additional disbursements beyond the 13 deaths GM has publicly linked to the bad switches.    The company also agreed to not invoke protection from liabilities involving incidents before it filed for bankruptcy, the Times reported.  Barclay's Brian Johnson has estimated that GM could spend $3 billion, Bloomberg said. U.S. Senator Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut has urged the company to set aside as much as $8 billion. Click here to read the full story » FREE AppDownload
ReutersProfessional sports have come a long way from the magic sponge. As the stakes get higher, the margins smaller, and the competition more intense, one Dublin company is setting the pace when it comes to translating enormous masses of data into something sports teams can use for demonstrable gain. That company is Kitman Labs, and they offer sports teams something invaluable and utterly modern: the ability to predict when a player might get injured with an unprecedented degree of accuracy. The concept, chief executive Iarfhlaith Kelly says, is about capturing and analyzing the vast amounts of data that teams capture about their players. “We monitor and analyze…and as those measurements degrade we highlight injury risk.” They focus on the relationships between different sorts of information to illuminate hidden risks – if a player’s ankle rotation is decreased at the same time that they are training harder, sleeping less, or under more stress, this is a risk, Kelly explains. “It’s effectively an early-warning system. It’s real-time metrics on an athlete that relate to known risks, within that sport and within that athlete.” The set of circumstances that has allowed Kitman to flourish and gain contracts with the Leinster and Irish rugby teams is the same business model that is powering many disruptive small businesses: the management and analysis of vast amounts of data. What has traditionally been a time and cash intensive activity has been opened up. For Kitman, it’s data gathered from athletes via sensors like GPS vests and heart rate monitors, but the rule applies in nearly every sector. Kittman LabsKittman's injury predictor  Pulling all this data together and looking at it in new ways is where the company is ploughing a profitable furrow. “Some people focus particularly on sleep, and the GPS companies will focus on work done on the pitch…there’s other companies doing work on blood markers, heart rate variability, and various other metrics.” We believe each one of those can only tell us one story, and that no one particular variable or approach can accurately highlight injury risk. But what challenges does it present? Kelly warns that, much like in any other business, there must be unstinting focus on your raw material. “Our biggest challenge is making sure that we get good data”, he says. When analyzing the data and creating systems to process it into a meaningful product, Kelly was able to take advantage of relationships with the TCD school of statistics, although he admits that as the business grows, that expertise will have to come in-house. Being nimble enough to react to surprises is also important, he says, as is not being dogmatic about the concept. When Kitman started out, they presumed that they would be able to form a general set of rules about different sports – that using broad statistical churches like age, position and sport, they could predict who was susceptible to injury, and when. However, when the TCD statisticians analyzed their data sets, the results were “worse than random”. Essentially, they would never be able to predict injuries without getting deeper into the data – without building up a picture of each athlete, and forsaking structure for intimate knowledge. “Every athlete is unique. You can only predict an athlete’s injury by basing what you know on his historical information, nobody else’s”. We discovered this pretty early…it’s something we didn’t expect to come across, and it’s been the making of us. Armed with the products they’ve created, and an impressive client list, Kitman is planning to move into the US market, where hundreds of professional sports teams are thirsty for anything that might give them the edge. Kelly, along with co-founders Stephen Smith and Jason Cowman, who work with the Leinster and Irish rugby teams, admits that the potential of the Irish market is limited by the relatively small amount of professional teams here. Using the product also means that clients have to have committed resources themselves – namely a team doctor and a sports scientist, amongst other demands. “We are extremely limited here, whereas the US is an enormous opportunity for us. We’re over there and we’re looking at opportunities in Major League Soccer and Major League Baseball.” Once over there, Kelly isn’t limiting himself: “We see it being applied…to every track and field sport”, he says. FREE AppDownload
ABC News Ousted American Apparel CEO Dov Charney is demanding access to a company server that contains personal photos, according to a report in the New York Post. "It is imperative that the company produce this server to Mr. Charney right away and that the company confirm that it has not, and will not, access the server for the photographs," Charney's lawyer wrote in a June 26 letter, the Post reported. The letter adds: "Neither the server nor the photographs have any bearing on the company’s purported termination of Mr. Charney." We reached out to Charney's lawyer for comment and will update when we hear back. Charney was fired earlier this month due to an ongoing investigation into allegations of misconduct, the company's board said in a statement. In a leaked termination letter, the company claims Charney "repeatedly engaged in conduct that violated the Company’s sexual harassment and anti-discrimination policy... Furthermore, you engaged in conduct that repeatedly put yourself in a position to be sued by numerous former employees for claims that include harassment, discrimination, and assault." Charney has launched a campaign to reverse the board's decision, arguing that the charges against him are baseless.  "Most involve activities that occurred long ago (if at all) and about which the Board and the Company have had knowledge for years," Charney's lawyer wrote in a letter to the board. FREE AppDownload
20th Century FoxHow powerful is your executive assistant?Call for nominations! Behind every executive is an assistant who makes stuff happen. We're not talking about low-on-the-totem-pole employees who get coffee and dig up unpublished "Harry Potter" manuscripts for their bosses. For our list of Most Powerful Executive Assistants In America, we want to acknowledge the behind-the-scenes operators who carry decision-making power at their companies, and make an impact in the lives of their employers, co-workers, and clients. We're looking to include assistants in all industries, from finance to tech to entertainment. Nominate a powerful executive assistant by sending an email to lists@businessinsider.com, including the executive assistant's name, email address, a brief description of their role and impressive feats, and any relevant website links. To be eligible, candidates must work in the United States. We'll be accepting nominations through Friday, July 4. Thanks! FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kai PfaffenbachPending home sales jumped 6.1% in May. This was much stronger than the modest 1.2% expected. April's growth rate was revised up to 0.5% from 0.4%. "Sales should exceed an annual pace of five million homes in some of the upcoming months behind favorable mortgage rates, more inventory and improved job creation,” said the National Association of Realtors' Lawrence Yun. “However, second-half sales growth won’t be enough to compensate for the sluggish first quarter and will likely fall below last year’s total." Here's more from Yun: "The flourishing stock market the last few years has propelled sales in the higher price brackets, while sales for homes under $250,000 are 10 percent behind last year’s pace. Meanwhile, apartment rents are expected to rise 8 percent cumulatively over the next two years because of tight availability ... Solid income growth and a slight easing in underwriting standards are needed to encourage first-time buyer participation, especially as renting becomes less affordable" According to the NAR, this is "the largest month-over-month gain since April 2010 (9.6 percent), when first-time home buyers rushed to sign purchase contracts before a popular tax credit program ended." "This report reinforces our expectation that housing market activity will improve in the second quarter and is consistent with our forecast of a 0.3pp contribution to real GDP growth from residential investment in Q2 after it acted as a 0.1pp drag in the first quarter, said Barclays' Cooper Howes. But not everyone is optimistic. "The story here, we think, is all about post-winter catch-up rather than a renewed, sustainable rebound after the shock of rising mortgage rates last year," said Pantheon Macroeconomics' Ian Shepherdson. "The trend in mortgage applications remains very low and the trend is flat, so we expect no repeat of the May jump in sales during the summer." FREE AppDownload
El Confidencial/GoProGoPro shares are surging again. After gaining more than 30% in their debut on Thursday, and another 14% on Friday, shares of the wearable camera company were up as much as 10% in morning trade on Monday. At $39 per share, GoPro is worth more than $4.7 billion. GoPro's revenue grew steadily from 2011 to 2013, hitting nearly $1 billion a year ago. In the first quarter of 2014, however, the company's revenue fell to $235 million from $255 million in the prior year period. This chart shows GoPro's performance since its debut last Thursday, and shares are up more than 33% in just a few days. Google Finance FREE AppDownload
Jerry Lai-USA TODAY SportsChicago PMI came in at 62.6. Consensus was for a reading of 63. It's also down from 65.5 in May. Production increased sharply, and employment also ticked higher. Prices paid fell, and new orders fell. Business activity has been positive for 12 months over the past year. Here's what it's looked like recently: Econoday  FREE AppDownload
flickr: lopez4949This is a parade of awful.If you haven't been to the pool or beach yet this summer, it's only a matter of time. When that moment comes, it is Business Insider's sincerest hope that you look like a gentleman. It all starts with a solid pair of swim trunks. By solid we mean not that obnoxious pair of red Hawaiian floral calve length board shorts you've had since High School. Back then you probably convinced yourself that you would have a late-stage growth spurt and eventually look like a grown up in those shorts, not like a kid wearing their older brother's clothes. You thought wrong. "Guys always wear their swim trunks too long," says Danny Agnew, New York editor of men's lifestyle newsletter, InsideHook. He made sure that a short potion of InsideHook's '37 Things A Man's Gotta Do This Summer' guide was dedicated to finding the right swim trunks. "We're finally getting to the place in America where guys realize that swim trunks that hit above the knee just look better," he added.GantPolka dot swim trunks from Gant, on sale for $52.80 Now why do they look better? Because shorts that hit above the knee make you look taller and leaner. Very simple. Another major mistake guys make, according to Agnew, is that they get to wrapped up in the whole surfer aesthetic. Your shorts should match your personality. If you're the kind of guy that likes to wear blazers and solids everyday, it looks (and likely feels) ridiculous when you wear a pair trunks printed with neon hula girls to the beach. There are a ton of options for guys that want to stay understated but still want a cool pattern. For that you may want to check out Gant, where shorts can range between $88 and $125. It's a good range, because you're going to want multiple pairs. No one wants to be seen wearing the same moldy shorts all summer. It's just not right. Two more guidelines to keep in mind: You see, the goal here is very simple. You want to be able to be able to transition from the pool to lunch easily. A solid pair of swim trunks looks enough like a pair of shorts that you can put on a button up and go back to the real world without looking foolish. Besides, as Agnew said, "If you can't wear a pair of shorter shorts at the beach where can you wear them?" A few more examples of solid trunks with notes from Agnew (bolded) below. "[These trunks have] a more forgiving 6.7 inch inseam, classic vintage patterns, and they will monogram your initials on them. That’s baller." Solid and Striped, CaliforniaSolid & Striped, The California "A solid middle-of-the-road 5 inches and the best floral pattern we’ve seen. Not into pastels? Try the navy version." GantGant, Pastel Flower Swim Boxer "Yes, the underwear guys. Yes, you have to be in ridiculous shape. Yes, there will be women requesting that you apply sunscreen to their backs." Agnew out. 2xist Jogger Colorblock Short   FREE AppDownload
M&amp;A activity has hit $750 billion through June, a level we haven't seen in years, thanks to cash-flush corporations, steadily improving growth, and rising CEO confidence, according to Goldman Sachs's David Kostin. This is up by around 50% from a year ago. "If deal-making continues at the current trend, full-year 2014 domestic M&amp;A announcements would reach $1.5 trillion, the second-highest level in history, trailing only the LBO-fueled peak of 2007," he wrote. Kostin highlights two notable that differentiate this boom from previous ones: financial sponsors like private equity firms account for just 6% of deals vs. 11% over the past decade, and the average bid premium is down to 26% vs. 44% in 2009 amid higher share prices. Here's why that's unusual: For context, at the peak of the LBO boom in 2006 and 2007, private equity accounted for 20%-25% of annual US M&amp;A volume. Ironically, private equity funds currently have significant buying capacity and debt markets are extremely favorable. However, public target company valuations are stretched suggesting forward returns are likely to be muted. This dynamic explains why strategic combinations have dominated 2014 merger volume and LBOs have accounted for a below-average market share. Here's the chart showing the flurry of deals from S&amp;P500 firms. BI's Jim Edwards believes we are now approaching "frothy" levels. Goldman Sachs FREE AppDownload
For the global pharmaceuticals giant GlaxoSmithKline the headlines couldn't be worse: Mark Reilly, the British chief of its China division is trapped in that country facing bribery allegations — charges which may well be false. The company has received a secretly recorded video of Reilly having sex with his girlfriend. And the private detective that Reilly hired to figure out who had planted a camera inside his apartment is in a Chinese prison, where he has made a ritualistic forced confession on Chinese TV. Meanwhile, an as-yet anonymous whistleblower is sending GSK executives emails claiming that GSK paid up to £283 million in bribes to Chinese doctors to prescribe its medicines. A stunning piece of reporting in London's Sunday Times shows that Reilly and the detective may well be innocent, victims of corruption in China's security apparatus and the country's own need to demonstrate that it is doing something to fight corruption. The U.K. Serious Fraud Office opened an investigation into the bribery allegations in May, according to the Financial Times. A U.S. investigation may follow, presumably under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Criminal charges may be filed. The story starts in 2012, according to the Sunday Times, when 23 anonymous emails were sent to Chinese authorities alleging that doctors were being bribed with the knowledge of GSK management there. Inside GSK, management suspected that Vivian Shi, the company's head of government affairs, sent the emails. There was no evidence, but GSK investigated her travel expenses and eventually she left the company sometime after October 2012 along with her boss, John Lepore, who joined media group Reed Elsevier as head global government affairs. (There are no allegations of wrongdoing against Lepore or Shi. Neither of them immediately returned a message from Business Insider requesting comment.) At that point, GSK asked Reilly to take over GSK China even though he did not speak Chinese. This is what happened next, according to The Sunday Times: ON JANUARY 16 last year the allegations returned, but closer to home. A bombshell email landed in the inboxes of 13 executives at Glaxo and two people at PwC, its auditor. This time it was in perfect English. Sent by “gskwhistleblow–er@gmail.com”, it was headlined: “Notification of bribery by GSK in China.” The allegations were extensive and granular in detail. The whistleblower alleged Glaxo falsified its books and records to conceal illegal marketing practices. It allegedly operated a “pervasive cash advance bribery scheme” under which a Citibank (China) account was used to send £1,000 a month to the bank accounts of Chinese sales staff. They spent the money on entertainment, gifts and cash payments, the whistleblower alleged. Twenty Chinese staff were fired, the whistleblower claimed. GSK says it investigated the claims, but could not verify them. "While some fraudulent behaviour relating to expense claims was found, we did not at that time find evidence to substantiate the specific allegations,” the company said. The company told The Telegraph: “We have zero tolerance for any kind of corruption in our business and … we take action against any breaches.” On March 16, 2013, GSK's London-based CEO Andrew Witty received an email containing a video of Reilly having sex with his girlfriend in his apartment, part of a gated development that had passcards for access and closed-circuit TV for security. After some meetings at GSK's HQ in London, Reilly was given permission to hire Peter Humphrey, 58, a private detective who ran his own firm, Chinawhys. He was assigned to investigate Vivian Shi and her connections to the Chinese government. But Humphreys was not told about the existence of the sex video, nor the whistleblower emails, until much later — in late June 2013. By July 8, Humphrey became convinced that the allegations were credible, The Sunday Times says. But on July 10, Humphrey and his Chinese-American wife were arrested by Chinese officials and have been held in detention ever since. In August 2013, Humphrey made a forced confession on Chinese TV to accessing private information on Chinese citizens illegally. Reilly returned to China in an attempt to clear his name, but on May 14, 2014, was charged by the Chinese with "presiding over a web of corruption," according to The Sunday Times — even though he had been the person originally sent to China to clear it up. Now, Reilly is trapped in China, according to The Financial Times: Mr Reilly remains in China and, although he is not in custody, he is not allowed to leave the country, according to people familiar with the matter. He is still a GSK employee but has been replaced as China head. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's BlogThe Fed’s flow of funds data provide some support for the notion that financial firms and households have been deleveraging. Of course, the full story is that mortgage borrowers, on balance, stopped borrowing during the current economic expansion. They stopped doing so for all sorts of reasons. Mortgage credit has become harder to obtain, and terms have been tightened. Until the past two years, falling home prices curbed buyers’ enthusiasm. When prices rebounded, as institutional investors piled into the housing market, affordability became an issue again, especially given the ongoing credit crunch in the mortgage market. One of the big drags on home sales has been a dearth of first-time buyers because many people who might otherwise be buying their first homes have graduated from college with onerous student loans. These are included in nonrevolving consumer credit along with auto loans. This category rose to a record $2.3 trillion during April, with student loans accounting for roughly half of this total. Large student debt burdens disqualify many young adults from getting mortgage loans, especially if they’ve been delinquent in their payments. Many of the individual loan balances are equivalent to the amount of down payment for the houses they might have bought but for their student debt burdens. That helps to explain the drop in the homeownership rate of adults under 35 years old from a record high of 43.6% during Q2-2004 to 36.2% during Q1-2014. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Deleveraging Reality &amp; Myth. (1) The long goodbye. (2) A 50% expansion. (3) The balance-sheet-recession theory. (4) Warsh and Druckenmiller weigh in. (5) Sympathy for the ideology, not its logic. (6) The deleveraging hypothesis also has some holes. (7) Financial sector has deleveraged and de-securitized. (8) Have households really deleveraged? It’s a complicated story. (9) Student debt depressing students and housing. (10) No shortage of nonfinancial business debt. (11) Leviathan lives on debt. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidA mascot dressed as a character from the mobile game "Candy Crush Saga" walks the floor of the New York Stock Exchange during the IPO of Mobile game maker King Digital Entertainment Plc March 26, 2014. The IPO market is on fire.  This year has seen a number of notable debuts, including Candy Crush-maker King Digital and last Thursday's initial offering from wearable camera company GoPro. Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba is also expected to debut later this year. Now we have numbers to back up the feeling that its been a big year for IPOs. According to a report from Renaissance Capital, IPO proceeds in the second quarter were up 42.4% year-over-year. In Q2, proceeds from European IPOs were up 43.7% over last year, while proceeds for IPOs in North America were up 34.9%. Globally, companies raised more than $56.3 billion in 127 deals during Q2. And year-to-date, total proceeds from IPOs are up 42.4% over last year.  Renaissance CapitalRenaissance also notes that these IPOs have not just been abundant, but have also outperformed. In the second quarter, global IPOs generated a return of 11.4%. And year-to-date, IPOs have returned 7.3% against the global market's 3.9% return, according to Renaissance. And over the last two years, the FTSE Renaissance Global IPO Index is solidly outperforming global markets.  Renaissance CaptialIf IPOs continue to outperform the broader market, Renaissance says, expect to continue seeing strong issuance the rest of the year.  FREE AppDownload
We sorted through data from the Social Security Administration for every person born in 1984. Produced by Sara Silverstein.  Follow BI Video: On Facebook
REUTERS/Jason Lee Vice Chairman of China's Central Military Commission Xu Caihou sits during the opening ceremony of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) at the Great Hall of the People, March 3, 2012.BEIJING (Reuters) - Chinese President Xi Jinping struck a key blow in his fight against pervasive graft on Monday with the expulsion from the Communist Party of a former high-ranking military commander who had risen to near the very apex of power in China. Xu Caihou, who retired as vice chairman of the powerful Central Military Commission last year and from the party's decision-making Politburo in 2012, is the highest-ranking military officer to be accused of corruption in China. Xu will be handed over for a court martial after being accused of taking bribes, the official Xinhua news agency said. "The party will never allow a hiding place for corrupt elements, the military will also never allow corrupt elements any place to hide," Xinhua said. Both the party and the army, the agency said, had to understand "the long-term, complicated and arduous battle against corruption, and the need for the fight against corruption to be put in a more prominent position". "Upon investigation, Xu Caihou took advantage of his office, helped others be promoted to positions and accepted bribes directly or through his family, used his position to influence others for profit and his family members accepted valuables from others." Xu has been under virtual house arrest for months while helping in the probe into Gu Junshan, who has been under investigation for corruption since he was sacked as deputy director of the logistics department of the People's Liberation Army (PLA) in 2012, sources have previously told Reuters. Gu was charged with corruption earlier this year. Reuters has not been able to reach either Xu or Gu for comment. It is not clear whether they have lawyers. The Xinhua dispatch made no mention of Gu. President Xi has launched a sweeping campaign against graft since becoming party chief in late 2012 and president last year, vowing to take down powerful "tigers" as well as lowly "flies". Xu is the most senior person to have been felled to date. (Reporting by Ben Blanchard and Sui-Lee Wee; Editing by Ron Popeski) FREE AppDownload
ArchivesThe stock market has had another good year so far. Despite concerns about high prices (from people like me), stocks have meandered higher over the past 6 months. And they are now, once again, setting new all-time highs. That's good for me, because I own stocks. But I'm not expecting this performance to continue. In fact, the higher stocks move, the more concerned I get about a day (or days) of reckoning. Why? Because the higher stocks move, the farther their prices get farther away from the long-term average. This doesn't mean the market will crash anytime soon — or ever. But it does mean that, unless it's "different this time," stocks are likely to perform very poorly from this level over the next 7-10 years.   And it's not just price that concerns me. There are three basic reasons I think future stock performance will be lousy: Let's take those one at a time. In the past year or two, stocks have moved from being "expensive" to "very expensive." In fact, according to one historically valid measure, stocks are now more expensive than they have been at any time in the past 130 years with the exception of 1929 and 2000 (and we know what happened in those years).  The chart below is from Yale professor Robert Shiller. It shows the cyclically adjusted price-earnings ratio of the S&amp;P 500 for the last 130 years. As you can see, today's PE ratio of 26X is miles above the long-term average of 15X. In fact, it's higher than at any point in the 20th century with the exception of the months that preceded the two biggest stock-market crashes in history. Robert Shiller  Does a high PE mean the market is going to crash? No. Sometimes, as in 2000, the PE just keeps getting higher. For a while. But, eventually, gravity takes hold. And in the past, without exception, a PE as high as today's has foreshadowed lousy returns for the next 7-10 years. While we're at it, please note something else in the chart above. Please note that, sometimes—as in the entire first 70 years of the last century—PEs (blue line) can be low even when interest rates (red line) are low. That's worth noting because, today, you often hear bulls say that today's high PEs are totally justified by today's low interest rates. Even if this were true—even if history did not clearly show that you can have low PEs with low rates—this argument would not protect you from future losses, because today's low rates could eventually regress upwards to normal. But it's also just not true that low rates always mean high PEs. And in case some of your bullish friends have convinced you that Professor Shiller's P/E analysis is otherwise flawed, check out the chart below. It's from fund manager John Hussman. It shows six valuation measures in addition to the Shiller PE that have been highly predictive of future returns. The left scale shows the predicted 10-year return for stocks according to each valuation measure. The colored lines (except green) show the predicted return for each measure at any given time. The green line is the actual return over the 10 years from that point (it ends 10 years ago).  Today, the average expected return for the next 10 years is slightly positive — just under 2% a year. That's not horrible. But it's a far cry from the 10% long-term average. John Hussman, Hussman Funds And, lastly, lest you're tempted to dismiss both Shiller and Hussman as party-pooping idiots, here's one more chart. This one's from James Montier at GMO. Montier, one of Wall Street's smartest strategists, is also very concerned about today's valuations. He does not think it's "different this time." Montier's chart shows that another of the common arguments used to debunk Professor Shiller's PE chart is bogus. Bulls often say that Professor Shiller's PE is flawed because it includes the crappy earnings year during the financial crisis. Montier shows that this criticism is misplaced. Even when you include 2009 earnings (purple), Montier observes, 10-year average corporate earnings (blue) are well above trend (orange). This suggests that, far from overstating how expensive stocks are, Prof. Shiller's chart might be understating it. Jamies Montier, GMO In short, Montier thinks that all the arguments you hear about why today's stock prices are actually cheap are just the same kinds of bogus arguments you always hear in the years leading up to market peaks: Seemingly sophisticated attempts to justify more buying by those who have a vested interest in more buying. So, by all means, go ahead and tell yourself that stocks aren't expensive. But be aware of what you're likely doing. What you're likely doing is what others who persuaded themselves to buy stocks near previous market peaks (as I did in 2000) were doing: Saying, "it's different this time." That's price. Next comes profit margins. One reason many investors think stocks are reasonably priced is that they are comparing today's stock prices to this year's earnings and next year's expected earnings. In some years, when profit margins are normal, this valuation measure is meaningful. In other years, however — at the peak or trough of the business cycle — comparing prices to one year's earnings can produce a very misleading sense of value. Profit margins tend to be "mean-reverting," meaning that they go through periods of being above or below average but eventually—sometimes violently—regress toward the mean. As a result, it is dangerous to conclude that one year of earnings is a fair measure of long-term "earning power." If you look at a year of high earnings and conclude these high earnings will go on forever, for example, you can get clobbered. (It works the other way, too. In years with depressed earnings, stocks can look artificially expensive. That's one reason a lot of investors missed the buying opportunity during the financial crisis. Measured on 2009's clobbered earnings, stocks looked expensive. But they weren't. They were actually undervalued.) Have a glance at this recent chart of profits as a percent of the economy. Today's profit margins are the highest in history, by a mile. Note that, in every previous instance in which profit margins have reached extreme levels like today's — high and low — they have subsequently reverted to (or beyond) the mean. And when profit margins have reverted, so have stock prices. Business Insider, St. Louis FedAfter-tax profits as a percent of GDP. Now, again, you can tell yourself stories about why, this time, profit margins have reached a "permanently high plateau," as a famous economist remarked about stock prices just before the crash in 1929. And, unlike that economist, you might be right. But as you are telling yourself these stories, please recognize that what you are really saying is "It's different this time." And "it's different this time" are described as "the four most expensive words in the English language." For the last five years, the Fed has been frantically pumping more and more money into Wall Street, keeping interest rates low to encourage hedge funds and other investors to borrow and speculate. This free money, and the resulting speculation, has helped drive stocks to their current very expensive levels. But now the Fed is starting to "take away the punch bowl," as Wall Street is fond of saying. Specifically, the Fed is beginning to reduce the amount of money that it is pumping into Wall Street. To be sure, for now, the Fed is still pumping oceans of money into Wall Street. But, in the past, it has been the change in direction of Fed money-pumping that has been important to the stock market, not the absolute level.  In the past, major changes in direction of Fed money-pumping have often been followed by changes in direction of stock prices. Not immediately. And not always. But often. Let's go to the history ... Here's a look at the last 50 years. The blue line is the Fed Funds rate (a proxy for the level of Fed money-pumping.) The red line is the S&amp;P 500. We'll zoom in on specific periods in a moment. But just note that Fed policy goes through "tightening" and "easing" phases, just as stocks go through bull and bear markets. And sometimes these phases are correlated. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed Now, lets zoom in. In many of these time periods, you'll see that sustained Fed tightening has often been followed by a decline in stock prices. Again, not immediately, and not always, but often. You'll also see that most major declines in stock prices over this period have been preceded by Fed tightening.  Here's the first period, 1964 to 1980. There were three big tightening phases during this period (blue line) ... and three big stock drops (red line). Good correlation! Business Insider, St. Louis Fed Now 1975 to 1982. The Fed started tightening in 1976, at which point the market declined and then flattened for four years. Steeper tightening cycles in 1979 and 1980 were also followed by price drops. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed From 1978 to 1990, we see the two drawdowns described above, as well as another tightening cycle followed by flattening stock prices in the late 1980s. Again, tightening precedes crashes. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed And, lastly, 1990 to 2014. For those who want to believe that Fed tightening is irrelevant, there's good news here: A sharp tightening cycle in the mid-1990s did not lead to a crash! Alas, two other tightening cycles, one in 1999 to 2000 and the other from 2004 to 2007 were followed by major stock market crashes. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed One of the oldest sayings on Wall Street is "Don't fight the Fed." This saying has meaning in both directions, when the Fed is easing and when it is tightening. A glance at these charts shows why. On the positive side, the Fed's tightening phases have often lasted a year or two before stock prices peaked and began to drop. So even if you're convinced that sustained Fed tightening now will likely lead to a sharp stock-price pullback at some point, the bull market might still have a ways to run. So those are three reasons why I'm still nervous about stock prices and think stocks will likely deliver lousy returns over the next 7-10 years — price, profit margins, and Fed tightening. I also would not be surprised to see the stock market drop sharply from this level, perhaps as much as 30%-50% over a couple of years. None of this means for sure that the market will crash or that you should sell stocks (I own stocks, and I'm not selling them.) It does mean, however, that you should be mentally prepared for the possibility of a major pullback and lousy long-term returns.  Because unless it's "different this time," that's what we're likely to get. SEE ALSO: Anyone Who Thinks Stocks Will Go Up If The Economy Grows Should Read This Buffett Quote  FREE AppDownload
Joi Ito Dubai stocks fell 4.4% Monday, ending their worst week since 2008, as the country's real estate sector comes under fire. Emaar Properties, a developer and the DFM General Index's largest-weighted-stock, fell 3.7% percent. Arabtec, the United Arab Emirates’ largest listed contractor, fell 10% percent, the most allowed in a day. The DFM General Index lost 22% in June, and entered a bear market last week after the shares plunged 20% percent from their peak in May.  We recently told you how the UAE was until recently the world's hottest property market, with prices up 10% quarter-over-quarter. It appears the reckoning has arrived. "Property and construction stocks are at the forefront of the market, and in a down draft they take a hit," Hisham Khairy, the Dubai-based head of institutional trade at Mena Corp. Financial Services LLC, told Bloomberg. “It looks like the correction is not fully done and we are heading lower again." Still, a full-on destabilizing crash remains unlikely. “There are some noticeable structural differences between where Dubai is today and where it was six years ago,” Ali Khalpey, head of equities at Exotix Partners LLP in London, told Bloomberg. Here's what the DFM has looked like over the past 12 months: Bloomberg  FREE AppDownload
The Bank for International Settlements — the Swiss-based financial institution that acts as a counterparty to national central banks — has declared that stock markets are in a "euphoric" state and has urged central banks globally to begin tightening interest-rate policies now while economies are growing rather than wait for another recession, when it will be too late. Those are scary words coming from a set of economists whose job it is to monitor how capable central banks are of responding to economic conditions with flexible monetary policy. The subtext (and not so subtext) of BIS's annual report is that, because many central banks have reduced interest rates to zero — the U.S. and Japan included — they are without weapons to boost the economy should another crisis hit. You can't go lower than zero, basically. These words from the BIS ought to terrify anyone who thought central banks were unprepared for the last recession in 2007, when U.S. interest rates were "high" at about 5.3%: Financial markets are euphoric, but progress in strengthening banks’ balance sheets has been uneven and private debt keeps growing. Macroeconomic policy has little room for manoeuvre to deal with any untoward surprises that might be sprung, including a normal recession. And that crisis looks set to arrive any day now because stocks are at a peak. Bloomberg underlined the point at the weekend: One thing making people nervous about stocks these days is the fact the U.S. market has gone more than two years without a correction, or a 10 percent drop. It just doesn’t feel right. Sort of like going two years without changing a car’s oil, or two days without brushing your teeth, or two paragraphs into a column without a good metaphor. The last major dip for the Standard &amp; Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) was an 11 percent drop from its intraday high on April 2, 2012, through its low on June 4, 2012. This year, the closest it’s come was a 6.1 percent slide from the middle of January to early February and a 4.4 percent decline in April. On top of that, the M&amp;A market hit new records this year. The Financial Times reports: Deal frenzy, animal spirits, merger mania – call it what you like, it is back. The value of global mergers and acquisitions hit $1.75tn in the first six months of the year, a 75 per cent rise on the same period last year and the highest since 2007. The FT also cites these frothy stats about the value of the M&amp;A market: Alberto Gallo, head of macro credit research at RBS in London, believes investors are asleep at the wheel: The worry is that a combination of complacency and illiquidity could turn a snowball into an avalanche when “low-for-long” interest rates come to an end. With US unemployment falling and the Fed’s asset purchase “tapering” ending in the fourth quarter, this moment is getting closer. Markets are unprepared. Get out now, in other words, because the Fed won't be able to rescue stocks with more liquidity should the market begin a secular slide. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eddie KeoghGood morning and welcome to the biggest economic week of the summer. Here's what you need to know. BNP Paribas To Pay Record Fine. The $8.9 billion penalty will be the most paid by any European bank. The French firm is accused of violating U.S. sanctions. Bloomberg reported its dollar trading ban won't begin until 2015.  Blackstone Is Making A Hedge Fund. It will be designed to handle "large, risky bets," the Wall Street Journal's Rob Copeland reported. "In one way, Blackstone's model resembles SAC Capital Advisors LP, the fund led by Steven A. Cohen," he writes. "Blackstone's trading teams will pitch their best ideas to a group including new hire Parag Pande, formerly of closed hedge-fund firm Ziff Brothers Investments, risk officer Gideon Berger and Mr. Hill. If it likes the ideas, Blackstone will give the team additional cash to piggyback on the trades or use the ideas in other firm products." GM Is Readying Payouts For Crash Victims' Families. The automaker has hired a compensation expert to determine how much will be required to settle with families who lost loved ones in crashes allegedly linked to faulty ignition switches. The New York Times says the total amount is likely to end up in the billions.   Goldman Sachs Lifted Its 2014 UK GDP Estimate To 3.4%. At one point it was as low as 2.7%, citing the "persistent" strength of the country's various economic indicators this year. But it also brought forward its rate hike estimate, suggesting the Bank of England will lift rates to 1% by the end of next year. Mortgage approvals hit an 11-month low as tighter lending standards took hold.  Argentina May Miss A Payment Today. It will get a 30-day grace period though, and bonds are trading at levels suggesting investors believe a deal will be reached with debt-holding hold-outs. From WSJ: "Gorky Urquieta, co-head of emerging-market debt at Neuberger Berman, holds a variety of Argentine bonds in his portfolio and says any potential selloffs could offer buying opportunities. He says he expects the country to miss the interest payment on Monday but ultimately settle with holdout creditors before a default. 'I like the fact that Argentina is under the gun,' Mr. Urquieta said. 'That's going to make them come to the table.'" European inflation goes nowhere. Data for June showed core inflation climbed to just 0.8% from 0.7%. We are still at a four-year low.  We get three datapoints today. First is Chicago PMI at 9:45 a.m.. Consensus is for a decrease to 64.0, versus 65.5 in May. Next is pending home sales at 10 a.m., with consensus for a 1% increase. Finally, we get the Dallas Fed's manufacturing survey at 10:30 a.m. — it's the last of the regional Fed manufacturing surveys for June. Bitcoin Prices Surge. The cryptocurrency is seeing a nearly 5% pop this morning to $625 as users await the results of the U.S. Marshals auction held Friday.   Global M&amp;A Activity Hits An 11-year High. The $1.75 trillion-worth of deals is the most ever through the first half of the year. "Companies have strategic imperatives to do deals, they have the cash to do deals, and they can borrow additional cash at record-low rates," said Frank Aquila, a mergers and acquisitions lawyer at Sullivan &amp; Cromwell LLP. "It really is a bit of a perfect storm when it comes to dealmaking." Markets are flat. Asian indexes were mostly higher. European stocks were marginally higher. U.S. futures were doing nothing. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermid Screens show the 2014 World Cup soccer match between U.S. and Germany as traders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange June 26, 2014. It's a four-day week ahead of the July 4 weekend. But it would be a mistake to just phone it in. We've got some economic fireworks on the calendar including a slew of manufacturing reports and a Thursday jobs report. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Story Economic Calendar Market Commentary At 1,960, the S&amp;P 500 is just 2 points from an all-time closing high and 8 points from an all-time intraday high. Especially in the wake of last week's horrific GDP report, what gives? "The rally in stocks in the face of an appalling US GDP print again emphasizes the importance of future expectations vs. past facts," said JP Morgan's Jan Loeys. "On the economy, there is strong agreement that growth is picking up from this year’s appallingly weak start to just over 3% over the next six quarters and that global inflation is set to rise about 0.3% over 2013-15. Most investors we see think risk on growth is biased to the upside. There is little interest in discussing or protecting against secular stagnation or stagflation." For more insight about the middle market, visit mid-marketpulse.com. FREE AppDownload
FlickrEuropean stocks are up slightly early Monday. This comes ahead of a huge week of U.S and European economic data that could show steady growth in the global economy.  Britain's FTSE 100 is up 0.14%. France's CAC 40 is down 0.03%. Germany's DAX is up 0.35% Spain's IBEX is down 0.42%. Asian stocks are mostly higher on Monday with Japan's Nikkei up 0.44%. Hong Kong's Hang Seng is down 0.13%. U.S. futures are marginally down.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Brendan McDermidIt's a huge, holiday-shortened week for the American economy, as tons of data will be coming out. The flood starts today. Here's what's coming up, via Calculated Risk: • At 9:45 AM ET, the Chicago Purchasing Managers Index for June. The consensus is for a decrease to 64.0, down from 65.5 in May.• At 10:00 AM, the Pending Home Sales Index for May. The consensus is for a 1% increase in the index.• At 10:30 AM, the Dallas Fed Manufacturing Survey for June. This is the last of the regional Fed manufacturing surveys for June. All of this is top shelf stuff, and we'll be covering it LIVE. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA Bank of China branch is seen under construction in GuangzhouLONDON (Reuters) - China's top banks accounted for almost one-third of a record $920 billion of profits made by the world's top 1000 banks last year, showing their rise in power since the financial crisis, a survey showed on Monday. China's banks made $292 billion in aggregate pretax profit last year, or 32 percent of the industry's global earnings, according to The Banker magazine's annual rankings of the profits and capital strength of the world's biggest 1,000 banks. Last year's global profits were up 23 percent from the previous year to their highest ever level, led by profits of $55 billion at Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC) &lt;601398.SS&gt;. China Construction Bank &lt;601939.SS&gt;, Agriculture Bank of China &lt;601288.SS&gt; and Bank of China &lt;601988.SS&gt; filled the top four positions. Banks in the United States made aggregate profits of $183 billion, or 20 percent of the global tally, led by Wells Fargo's &lt;WFC.N&gt; earnings of $32 billion. Banks in the eurozone contributed just 3 percent to the global profit pool, down from 25 percent before the 2008 financial crisis, the study showed. Italian banks lost $35 billion in aggregate last year, the worst performance by any country. Banks in Japan made $64 billion of profit last year, or 7 percent of the global total, followed by banks in Canada, France and Australia ($39 billion in each country), Brazil ($26 billion) and Britain ($22 billion), The Banker said. The magazine said ICBC kept its position as the world's strongest bank, based on how much capital they hold - which reflects their ability to lend on a large scale and endure shocks. China Construction Bank jumped to second from fifth in the rankings of strength and was followed by JPMorgan &lt;JPM.N&gt;, Bank of America &lt;BAC.N&gt; and HSBC &lt;HSBA.L&gt;. ICBC, which took the top position last year for the first time, was one of four Chinese banks in the latest top 10. Wells Fargo has this year jumped to become the world's biggest bank by market value, after a surge in its share price on the back of sustained earnings growth. Its market value is $275 billion, about $75 billion more than ICBC. The Banker said African banks made the highest returns on capital last year of 24 percent - double the average in the rest of the world and six times the average return of 4 percent at European lenders.   (Reporting by Steve Slater. Editing by Jane Merriman) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA man is reflected on a screen displaying a graph showing movements of the Tokyo Stock Exchange Stock Price Index (TOPIX), outside a brokerage in Tokyo SYDNEY (Reuters) - Asian share markets edged cautiously higher on Monday while the dollar stayed under pressure ahead of a packed week of economic data that will test investor hopes for a pick-up in the U.S. and global economies. MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan rose 0.24 percent. It gained 0.9 percent last week to be just under multi-month highs, aided by the prospect that interest rates in the major economies will remain near zero for many months to come. Most markets across the region were up modestly with Seoul adding 0.4 percent and Shanghai 0.5 percent. However, Tokyo stocks slipped 0.2 percent as the dollar lost some more ground to a broadly firmer yen. Bulls are hoping to see evidence of an economic rebound in the United States in this week's busy calendar of data that includes the June payrolls report on Thursday, a day early due to the July 4 holiday. Economists polled by Reuters on average expect jobs to rise 213,000 in June for the fifth straight month of gains above 200,000, a run unmatched since the Sept 1999-Jan 2000 period. The U.S. earnings season also starts in the next couple of weeks, which will provide evidence on how the economy and profits are faring. The Dow ended Friday 0.03 percent higher, though it was down 0.6 percent on the week. The S&amp;P 500 gained 0.19 percent for the day, while the Nasdaq advanced 0.43 percent. The FTSEurofirst300 suffered its first weekly loss in 10 weeks, while the MSCI world stocks gauge eased 0.3 percent for the week. With stocks stalled, investors poured more money into bonds and had to lend for longer to earn any type of real return. That flow pushed bond prices up and yields down, particularly at the longer end of the curve. Yields on 10-year Treasury notes were at 2.531 percent on Monday, having fallen almost 9 basis points last week. Likewise, yields on German 10-year paper dropped around 8 basis points to near record lows at 1.26 percent. Bonds should remain supported, given central banks in the U.S., Europe and Japan are seemingly committed to super low rates for the foreseeable future. Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen gives a speech on "financial stability" on Wednesday and will take questions. The European Central Bank holds its policy meeting on Thursday, a month after unleashing a far-reaching package of measures aimed at keeping the euro zone economy from slipping into a Japan-style deflation. Consumer price figures for June are due later on Monday and should show inflation stuck at a low 0.5 percent, the ninth consecutive month in the ECB's "danger zone" of below 1 percent. Globally, purchasing managers' indices (PMIs) for manufacturing are out on Tuesday and services on Thursday. They are expected to show a picture of growth or at least stability despite geopolitical tensions around Ukraine and Iraq. In currencies, the dollar index was last at 80.040, after dipping as low as 80.010, a level not seen since May 21. The euro was at $1.3645, near a 2-1/2 week high of $1.3652 set on Wednesday, while the dollar lost altitude on the yen to hit a five-week trough of 101.26. In commodity markets, gold was steady at $1,315.20 an ounce underpinned by geopolitical unrest in Iraq and Ukraine and the softer dollar. Brent crude oil eased 25 cents to 113.05 a barrel, while U.S. crude futures lost 24 cents to $105.50. Oil prices have come off recent highs as fighting in Iraq stayed away from the country's south, where most of its oil is produced. [O/R]   (Editing by Shri Navaratnam and Eric Meijer) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe logos of French power and transport engineering company Alstom and US conglomerate General Electric are pictured on their site in BelfortNEW YORK (Reuters) - Investor support for large acquisitions and a desire to trump rivals in consolidating markets have led chief executives to strike big transactions so far in 2014, raising year-to-date global deal volumes to their highest level in seven years. Corporate buyers did not shy away from going hostile if their targets proved unwilling to sell, while more U.S. companies rushed to buy overseas peers to lower tax rates and access cash held offshore in a practice known as inversion. The dealmaking frenzy could last for several months absent geopolitical or economic shocks, with buyers keen to take advantage of their strong stock prices, ample cash reserves and cheap available financing. "Companies have strategic imperatives to do deals, they have the cash to do deals, and they can borrow additional cash at record-low rates," said Frank Aquila, a mergers and acquisitions lawyer at Sullivan &amp; Cromwell LLP. "It really is a bit of a perfect storm when it comes to dealmaking." Unlike the most recent heyday of dealmaking, which was back in 2007 when private equity used cheap money to load up companies with debt, this year's merger boom is being led by cash-rich corporations with strong balance sheets, such as Pfizer Inc, Comcast Corp and General Electric Co. "What is notable about the deal activity we have seen in the first half of the year is the blue-chip nature of the companies who are doing the acquiring. We have finally seen the return of the strategic acquirer," said Gregg Lemkau, co-head of global mergers and acquisitions at Goldman Sachs Group. Year-to-date global deal volume as of June 26 surged to $1.75 trillion, up 75 percent from the year-ago period, according to Thomson Reuters data. That was the highest level since 2007, when deal volume reached $2.28 trillion. This year's increase came despite the number of global deals dropping slightly to 17,698 from 17,820 the year before. At over $1 trillion, the second quarter of 2014 was the highest in deal volume since the second quarter of 2007 and was up significantly from the $680 million in the first quarter of 2014. Thirty-eight unsolicited or hostile bids, worth more than $150 billion, were launched in the first six months of the year, compared with 19 such deals worth $8 billion in the same period last year. Pfizer made an abortive $118 billion bid for AstraZeneca Plc, Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc is trying to buy Botox maker Allergan Inc for more than $50 billion, and AbbVie Inc plans to appeal to Shire Plc's shareholders after an unsolicited $46 billion bid was rebuffed. "With both the target and acquirer's stock generally up after deals are announced, buyers see value creation and tend to be more aggressive even if targets are not willing to sell," said Ravi Sinha, executive vice chairman of global corporate and investment banking at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. More CEOs and boards are willing to pull the trigger on transactions that have been contemplated for a while, with a view that financing conditions are at their peak and unlikely to improve, said Marc-Anthony Hourihan, co-head of Americas M&amp;A at UBS AG.   RISING VALUATIONS Risk-taking has been generally rewarded by investors, at a time when low cost of capital means buyers can obtain immediate boosts to their earnings from those deals. Nearly 70 percent of announcements of U.S. acquisitions worth $1 billion or more in the first half were followed by gains in the stock prices of the buyers, up from 60 percent in the same period last year and compared with a seven-year average of 55 percent, Thomson Reuters data showed. "In the early stages of an M&amp;A wave, the returns to acquirers tend to be positive, but as the M&amp;A wave matures, the returns turn negative as people get overconfident," said Bob Bruner, dean of the University of Virginia's Darden Graduate School of Business Administration and author of the book "Deals from Hell." "It would seem that we are still at the early stage of the wave," he said. With stock markets at record-high levels, the average premium buyers paid over target companies' four-week stock prices was 24.8 percent so far this year, down from 28.1 percent in the same period last year and 30.3 percent in 2012. But on an earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) basis, valuations climbed. Buyers on average paid targets 13 times EBITDA in the first half of the year, compared with 11.8 times in the same period last year. That was the highest level since 2008, according to Thomson Reuters data. "On an (earnings per share) accretion basis, nearly every deal looks great. However, on a return-on-invested-capital basis, values appear pretty high," Goldman Sachs' Lemkau said. "Many boards are being forced to think about whether their traditional return on invested capital thresholds remain appropriate in an environment where the cost of capital is so low," he added. The red-hot equity markets and rising deal valuations also forced buyout firms to the sidelines, with private equity-backed leveraged buyouts declining 9 percent to $120.3 billion so far this year, representing 7 percent of the M&amp;A market. Private equity firms, however, took advantage of the M&amp;A boom to sell more of their companies for top-dollar amounts. "It's a great debt market but the issue for private equity is that it has inability to do highly levered transactions, compared to the leverage levels in 2006 and 2007, given the federal limitations," UBS's Hourihan said. Goldman Sachs was the top M&amp;A adviser worldwide, with $623 billion worth of deals so far this year. Morgan Stanley, Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Citigroup Inc and JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co rounded out the top five.   INVERSION TREND Inversions by U.S. companies, which allow them to be domiciled in countries that have a lower corporate tax rate, have moved center-stage in the healthcare sector, which was the busiest industry for dealmaking this year. Such transactions also helped boost cross-border M&amp;A volume, which surged 132 percent so far this year to account for 39 percent of global activity. U.S. medical device maker Medtronic Inc struck a $42.9 billion deal for Ireland-based rival Covidien Plc in June, in one of the largest attempted inversions. Pfizer's bid for AstraZeneca, as well as AbbVie's takeover offer for Shire, would also enable these companies to cut their tax bills by moving to a country with a lower corporate tax rate while also allowing them to access the cash held offshore without paying U.S. taxes. Even excluding Pfizer's AstraZeneca bid which has been put on hold for now, healthcare deals more than tripled to $317.4 billion so far this year, representing 18.2 percent of total deal volume, Thomson Reuters data shows. Some companies that are still without a foreign domicile are now trying to catch up with rivals that have already gone offshore and taken advantage of their more favorable tax status to strike even more deals. "I think you will continue to see inversion transactions being contemplated. This is particularly relevant to the Healthcare and TMT sectors, where you have a lot of cash trapped offshore," Goldman's Lemkau said. Gary Posternack, head of Americas mergers and acquisitions at Barclays Plc, added that while there are a large number of U.S. companies interested in exploring inversions, finding the right partner at the right valuation can be a challenge. "The limiting factor for inversions will likely be the ability of U.S. companies to find attractive and willing partners," he said. The second-busiest sector for dealmaking this year was media and entertainment, which had deal volumes nearly triple to $220.7 billion on the back of two mega-mergers: Comcast Corp's $45.2 billion bid for rival Time Warner Cable and AT&amp;T Inc's proposed acquisition of DirecTV for $48.5 billion. The broader telecom sector is likely to get another boost in the near future as Sprint Corp and T-Mobile US Inc are in advanced talks about a deal that would combine the third- and fourth-largest U.S. wireless operators. "The tone in the boardroom has changed from one that was doubtful about strategic M&amp;A activity to one that is questioning the status quo," Posternack said. "With all of the recent deal activity and the positive associated market reaction, the question now being asked is why are we not acting on the logical transactions?"   (Editing by Matthew Lewis) FREE AppDownload
