Wikimedia CommonsShanghai, ChinaAccording to Goldman Sachs and Societe Generale, everyone's top concern these days relates to China. Specifically, people worry that the reigning in of the credit markets could lead to a disorderly economic slowdown. This could mean that GDP slows to a sub-5% level from 7.7% in 2013. Currently economists see GDP slowing to 7.4%. "Hard-landing risks may be moderate but not low enough to make hedging costs irrelevant," said Viktor Hjort of Morgan Stanley's cross-asset research team. "Uncertainties are high as the Chinese financial system faces deleveraging. We’re not in the hard-landing camp but we also recognize that a hard landing would have major implications for many markets and in particular the most China-sensitive assets in equities, credit, rates and FX in Asia. On our estimates, markets are pricing in a 1-in-15 chance of a hard-landing in China in the coming twelve months – more so in equities and less so in FX markets." 1-in-15 reflects roughly 6% odds of a hard landing. Earlier, Societe Generale's Wei Yao forecasted a 20% chance of a hard landing. According to Hjort's analysis, hard-landing risks are being priced in unevenly across the options markets. "Our preferred hedges are those markets that price in the least hard-landing risk," he wrote, emphasizing that non-US options are intended for institutional clients. "FX puts (CNH and AUD in particular) and KRW rates 1y1y receiver swaptions look most compelling on our analysis, with credit and equity hedges generally more expensive." Morgan Stanley FREE AppDownload
Goldman Sachs met with and surveyed 2,000 clients in Hong Kong and Tokyo last week. "Three items dominated among a list of global macro concerns," said Goldman's David Kostin in his US Weekly Kickstart note. "China/EM credit risks ranked at the top of the list with 31% of participants noting it as a leading concern. Fear of asset bubbles from easy monetary policy (20%) and secular stagnation or prolonged low growth (20%) also garnered large responses. Other issues cited less frequently included deflation or undesirably low inflation (12%), political/military conflict (10%), inflation (4%), and a resurgence of financial stress in Europe (3%)." China has been making moves to reign in its loose credit markets, which most economists believe will slow the economy. However, the primary concern is that this will be disorderly, causing the economy to decelerate much more sharply than anyone expects. Goldman Sachs FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Caren FirouzThis is Dubai. Maybe we can get one printed up for the U.S.Before the U.S. housing bubble burst, there was an implicit widespread belief that home prices could never fall. Lenders and borrowers both believed this, and it's this mentality that helped fuel the bubble. Fast-forward to today. The idea that homes are a good stable investment has largely been debunked. Still, home prices are impressively up 23% from their March 2012 lows. And for what it's worth they're still down 20% from their bubble-era peaks, which some believe makes for a good enough argument for higher prices. "In the latest Zillow Home Price Expectations Survey released Feb. 12, over 100 experts predicted moderated appreciation in future home values, closer to the pre-bubble norms of 3 to 5 percent per year," said Zillow's Meredith Miller. "On average, the panel predicted national appreciation of 4.5 percent through the fourth quarter of 2014. Over the same period, the Zillow Home Value Forecast predicts 4.8 percent appreciation nationwide.  Over a longer term, the panel predicted a cumulative change in home values of 19.7 percent through the end of 2018, on average." That's all well and good. But it's worth noting that the most pessimistic quartile of those surveyed also see prices going up. It's a modest amount, but they see prices going up a cumulative 10.9% through 2018. That's a 2.1% rate annualized. Should we be worried that almost no one sees prices falling? The good news is that all of these home price bulls don't see prices accelerating to bubble-era rates. "On an annual basis, the panelists predicted home value appreciation to slow to 3.8 percent in 2015 and 3.3 percent by 2018," said Miller. "Overall, the panel predicted an average annual pace of 3.7 percent appreciation for the next five years. These rates of appreciation are much more in line with pre-housing bubble appreciation rates averaging  3.6 percent annually from 1987 to 1999, compared to the average of 7 percent annual appreciation rate experienced from 2000 to 2007." Still, it makes us a little uncomfortable to see so few worried about falling prices. It's this type of attitude that eventually leads to price bubbles. Zillow FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsChina Southern AirlinesChina's policymakers have been making moves to cool off its debt-fueled economy. Economists believe growth will slow to around 7.4% in 2014 from 7.7% in 2013. Societe Generale's Wei Yao sees 6.9% growth in her base case scenario. But she warns that there is a risk that China's transition could prove disorderly, causing the economy to slow much more than anyone expects. With China slowdown concerns making news lately, SocGen clients' top question in the past week was "How likely is China hard-landing?" Yao assigns a 20% probability of a hard-landing, which she considers to be growth of 5% or less. Here's SocGen's Michaela Marcussen telegraphing Yao's commentary: We have long argued that the need to calm the debt- financed investment would drive the bumpy landing of the Chinese economy now materialising. To date, the perception amongst Chinese investors has been that the government offers an implicit guarantee to all financial products. So far, this assumption has been generally correct. Our view remains, however, that to be serious about its policy of deleveraging and financial market liberalisation, the government will have to allow for defaults (with losses assumed by private investors). We believe that Chinese policymakers remain determined to slow credit and expect to see the first defaults in 2014. The risk is that this could spark panic amongst investors, triggering a wave of defaults amongst the weaker borrowers that depend on the shadow banking system. Nonetheless, given that the government still retains significant control over the financial system, our base case remains that a systemic crisis can be avoided. Our forecast of 6.9% GDP growth in 2014 is, however, below consensus and we set a probability of 20% on GDP growth dropping below 5% in 2014. Modelling the global impact hereof, we find that this would knock around 1.5pp off global GDP in the first year after the shock. Other emerging economies would be particularly hard hit through the channels of (1) direct trade links with China, (2) falling commodity prices for commodity exporters and (3) increased risk aversion in financial markets. Meanwhile, Deutsche Bank's Jun Ma has taken the extreme contrarian position of forecasting economic acceleration in China. He sees 8.6% growth in 2014 and 8.2% growth in 2015. "We maintain our non-consensus view that growth in China will pick up sharply this year driven mostly by stronger exports, as well as reduced overcapacity," he said.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidA trader works on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange. Humans are horrible at understanding compound interest, and it's making our golden years much less so. Think about your 401(k). The first thing you probably look at when you pick your funds is their returns. It's only human nature. Everybody likes to think about their nest eggs growing and growing and growing—especially if they're growing a little bit faster than everybody else's. But, in this case, human nature is costing you hundreds of thousands of dollars. VanguardThe sad fact is that returns aren't certain, but fees are. Now, maybe everything will go according to plan, and your 401(k) will be partying like it's 1999. Maybe the 1 percent—or more—that you're paying in fees will actually buy you market-beating returns. But probably not. You can see this in the chart to the left from Vanguard. It shows the percentage of actively managed funds that have underperformed index funds over the short and longer hauls, net of fees. Which is to say, most of them. It's hard enough for funds to beat their benchmarks over just one to three-year periods. But that gets damn near impossible the longer you go. Once you account for survivorship bias—that bad funds go bust, and disappear from the sample—almost 80 percent of actively managed funds don't beat simple index funds over 10 to 15-year periods. In the meantime, you're stuck paying fees. Those fees don't sound too bad — just 1 percent! — but this is where our total lack of intuition for how compounding works really hurts us. Let's try an example: what's 0.99 to the 40th power? It's not exactly a calculation you can do in your head. It's not even one you can estimate. But it's the kind of calculation that you need to do to figure out how much your 401(k) fees are costing you. The answer is a lot more than you think. (No cheating with a calculator before we get to the big reveal). Now, let's say you contribute $3,000 to your 401(k) every year, which is a little more than the national average, starting when you're 25. Let's also say that you're choosing between two investments: the lowest-cost index fund with a 0.08 percent fee, and a typical managed stock fund with, according to Morningstar, a 1.33 percent fee. And finally, let's say that, though you don't know it, they both return 7 percent a year, because, as we saw above, most managed funds don't beat the market. This 1.25 percent difference in annual fees adds up to a six-figure difference in lifetime earnings. That's because you don't just lose the money you pay in fees. You lose the returns you could have had on the money you pay in fees, too. As you can see in the chart below, this compounding effect doesn't matter much for the first 20 years or so, but really accelerates after that. If you chose the lowest-cost index fund, you'd have $15,000 more at age 45, $55,000 more at 55, and $159,000 more at 65. That would balloon to $257,000 more if you waited to retire at 70. The Atlantic This is some brutal math. It's 27 percent of your retirement going to Wall Street for nothing. Actually, less than nothing. Remember, about 80 percent of actively managed funds do worse than index funds after you take fees into account. It's a Wall Street handout that you can't afford to make. Skip the fees, and save your retirement. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsU.S. markets are closed on Monday in observance of Presidents' Day. Hopefully, consumers will use this day off to do some shopping. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Commentary Record high corporate profit margins continue to be on every stock market watcher's radar. While analysts and chief financial officers expect margins to remain high, the commentary from this earnings season's conference call suggest we should think about margins with caution. "Companies once again presented mixed outlooks for margins, but many indicated that expansion will be difficult," said Goldman Sachs's David Kostin citing the calls. "Consistent with our forecast that profit margins will remain roughly flat near historical peak levels for the next two years, managements highlighted difficult pricing and higher input costs as key factors offsetting operating leverage, efficiency gains, and continued cost controls." FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsU.S. markets are closed on Monday in observance of Presidents' Day. Hopefully, consumers will use this day off to do some shopping. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Commentary Record high corporate profit margins continue to be on every stock market watcher's radar. While analysts and chief financial officers expect margins to remain high, the commentary from this earnings season's conference call suggest we should think about margins with caution. "Companies once again presented mixed outlooks for margins, but many indicated that expansion will be difficult," said Goldman Sachs's David Kostin citing the calls. "Consistent with our forecast that profit margins will remain roughly flat near historical peak levels for the next two years, managements highlighted difficult pricing and higher input costs as key factors offsetting operating leverage, efficiency gains, and continued cost controls." FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesOne of the biggest stories in the global economy is the lack of inflation in the developed markets. With central banks around the world aggressively stimulating with easy monetary policy, many experts are struggling to understand why we haven't seen money move in a way that would stoke some inflation. In fact, the economy remains quite sluggish, which has others worried we could actually be heading for deflation. Art Cashin, the veteran NYSE trader from UBS Financial Services, has long been skeptical of the aggressive actions taken by the Federal Reserve and its peers. In a new interview with King World News, Cashin warns that financial market conditions remain very risky. From the interview: What I am saying is:  They thought they were going to solve a desperate problem by desperate measures.  I don’t believe it’s having the effect they wanted, and it’s building up a very, very dangerous situation.  If that money were suddenly to get velocity, inflation could break out.   Conversely, by pushing on a string and not getting anything done, they may wind up being in a spot where, if the economy moves to stall-speed, we’ll get deflationary pressure.  Yes, they’ve begun treating the patient with very, very drastic remedies, and my concern is:  Is it ultimately damaging the body in a way that will bring back some of the horrors they tried to avoid? Read more at KingWorldNews.com. FREE AppDownload
Bitcoin, the most popular of the digital currencies, continues to mystify many. For those in search of a quick crash course, here's a great graphic from Reuters. REUTERS GRAPHICS
Every sovereignty uses currency. With it, commerce is transacted, fortunes are made or lost and taxes are paid.  Even the word “sovereign” denotes money, the first of which were gold coins minted in 1489 by King Henry VII.  The bond between a sovereign and its currency is inseparable. Wars have been fought over the pursuit of it and the right to control it.  In the U.S., the power to mint coin and regulate its value is set in the U.S. Constitution.  The E Pluribus Unum (“Out of Many, One”) -- affixed to the Great Seal of the United States since 1782 and printed on U.S. currency -- extols this duty. Trust and faith that a sovereign is firmly standing behind its currency is critical. Sovereigns understand that without consistent economic growth and stability, the standard of living for its citizens will fall, and discontentment will grow. Nation-state treasuries print currency but the vital role of currency management-- needed to spur economic growth -- is reserved for central bankers. These financial stewards have immense power and responsibility. The Federal Reserve Bank gained this authority from Congress in 1913, but central bank-sovereign history spans over 340 years. The first central bank was established in Sweden in 1668 followed by England in 1694.  If not controlled and tightly regulated, Bitcoin -- a decentralized, untraceable, highly volatile and nationless currency -- has the potential to undermine this longstanding bond between sovereign and its currency.  Disrupting this link would impact monetary policy and well-established currencies. If Bitcoin is allowed to flow freely through the global capital markets, in its current embryonic state, it could harm nations, economies and global commerce. Under the Bitcoin model, those who create the software protocol and mine virtual currencies would become the new central bankers, controlling a monetary base.  Their decisions would directly impact the Bitcoin economy and spillover to well-established currencies. Confidence in virtual currencies could quickly evaporate if a sudden price drop, cyber-attack or other market disruptions occurred.  If citizens increasingly began to use virtual currencies over home currency, the sovereign money base would decline, hampering the ability to fully perform beneficial monetary duties. Stability and confidence in home currency also could be eroded.   Excluding Bitcoin, there now are some eighty other globally traded virtual currencies with more coming online each day (http://coinmarketcap.com/mineable.html).  Bitcoin is the bellwether of the industry, representing over 90 percent of stated market value. Therefore, the success or failure of Bitcoin directly impacts the growth prospects of other virtual currencies.   Compared to fiat currency, virtual currency has several distinct weaknesses.  As proven recently, it is more susceptible to destabilizing cyber-attacks, weak exchange controls, market illiquidity, asset bubbles and sudden price swings that could destroy investor confidence and wealth, triggering cascading economic damage. Since inception, Bitcoin has adhered to an anti-regulation and anti-Fed doctrine.  This approach has proven the Achilles heel, creating greater opportunity for market manipulation and fraud, leaving no room for consumer protection. A week in Bitcoin world is like a decade in other markets. Up until recently, Bitcoiners pointed to open source code and five years of existence as proof that software was failsafe. However, in recent days cyber hackers proved otherwise by cracking the code, exploiting a software flaw, triggering a chain reaction, forcing three of the largest exchanges -- representing over seventy percent of all trading volume -- to halt investor withdrawals.  During the 2013 Bitcoin Bubble, these exchanges proved adept at taking in hard currency and turning it into e-currency. But when markets turned turbulent and software unreliable, exchange weaknesses became evident. Investors quickly learned about Hotel California Risk-- you can check out anytime you like but you can never leave -- and converting Bitcoin to hard currency became virtually impossible.  Recent market events are instructive. The speed, in which hackers disrupted global trading, and the level of damage, further illustrates the fragility of the entire Bitcoin infrastructure. Self-regulation allowed this multibillion-dollar industry to be built on clay feet.  Prices remain volatile and market illiquidity high. The Bitcoin cyber-attack debacle triggered a brief flash crash, knocking prices down to $102 before settling back at $600. Remarkably, it only took a minuscule 6000 block trade to inflict this extensive damage. Since the market peak in December 2013, prices have nearly halved.  If Bitcoin currency and infrastructure are unstable, it is increasingly dangerous to subject the global economy to such market risk uncertainty. The longer the virtual currency economy is allowed to grow unchecked, the greater the chance of adverse economic impact.  via ZerohedgeBitcoin flash crash on Feb. 10, 2014. It was an 80% price drop in seconds. In reality, Bitcoiners are not central bankers but high-risk commodity traders.  To suggest they can do the equivalent work of dedicated and experienced central bankers is farcical.  Bitcoin has used a grossly oversimplified fixed-supply formula in an attempt to address panoply of complex, interconnected and ever changing economic variables.  Naively, the Bitcoin approach uses a preset supply formula fixed in 2009 when the first coin-block was generated. Once the supply ceiling has been reached in 2140, no new currency will be produced.  This dogmatic approach is completely decoupled from present or future economic cycles and lacks the needed flexibility to respond to changing economic conditions. Regardless of a strong or weak economy, a preset amount of Bitcoins will be generated.  Such artificial constraints can act as a straight-jacket, retarding an otherwise growing economy. Complicating monetary matters, Bitcoin owners practice extreme hoarding. Over 90 percent of all Bitcoins are retained, leaving only a small portion available to facilitate trading, market liquidity and commerce.  In a robust economy, banks lend and consumers spend.  If money supply is hoarded, the economy -- as measured in GDP and standard of living -- will shrink and incentives to barter will increase. Bitcoin fixed-supply formula has one major fatal flaw; it fails to acknowledge that human behavior, not mathematical formulas, drives markets. Until human behavior can be modeled, predetermined formulas can’t replace the crucial judgment role played by central bankers around the globe.  Regulators failed to prevent the financial crisis, but the commendable post-crash performance of former Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke demonstrates the importance of strong, flexible and responsive policy action. Such actions cannot be simply preprogrammed. Responding to Bitcoin risk, many countries including China, Iceland, Russia, Thailand and India have already spoken out against the dangers of virtual currencies, deeming it illegal. Canada also announced it is in the process of tightening its rules. However, other influential countries --- including the U.S., Great Britain and Germany --- have not done enough to address this growing risk.  Much more work on a nation-by-nation and global basis needs to be completed.  The immense value of sovereign and monetary unity cannot be ignored. In determining whether to give legitimacy to nationless currencies, risk-benefit analysis needs to flush out the potential impact on nations’ currencies, monetary policies, risks of cybercrime, market manipulation, consumer fraud, price instability, bubble risk, global commerce and the possible broader systemic-risk implications. In its short experimental history, Bitcoin is better known as the designer-currency-of-choice for money laundering, tax evasion and other unlawful acts, than as a failsafe financial innovation that will improve the global financial markets. Recent market events -- including hyper-price instability, market illiquidity, flawed software and the instability of existing trading infrastructure – reveal the possibility that virtual currencies may not be a safe, stable or usable currency.  But if analysis can prove Bitcoin offers clear economic and societal benefit, then its use should be regulated and tightly controlled by sovereigns and managed through well-established and tested banking channels. Nations, their regulators and financial protectors have an obligation to ensure that the virtues of Bitcoin and other virtual currencies are utilized, but only if its major flaws are eliminated. (Williams, a risk-management expert, former Federal Reserve Bank examiner and ex-commodities trading floor senior executive, teaches finance in the Boston University School of Management. In January 2014, he provided testimony before the New York State Department of Financial Services Hearing on Virtual Currencies.) FREE AppDownload
Bitcoin is currently trading at near $250, according to Bitcoin exchange MtGox. It got as low as $220.29 from a high of $540. Once the largest platform for trading Bitcoin, MtGox recently halted withdrawals, which exacerbated people's fears about having their wealth in the digital currency. The good news for Bitcoin adherents is that the currency is still trading near $600 on other exchanges. Mt. Gox, once the gold standard of Bitcoin exchanges, has been having technical problems. Here's a chart of Bitcoin prices per Coinbase, another exchange. Coinbase "Prices remain volatile and market illiquidity high," said Boston University finance professor Mark Williams last week."If Bitcoin currency and infrastructure are unstable, it is increasingly dangerous to subject the global economy to such market risk uncertainty. The longer the virtual currency economy is allowed to grow unchecked, the greater the chance of adverse economic impact." Here's a chart of the recent activity on the Mt. Gox exchange. Clark Moody "Bitcoin sellers on Mt Gox are running for the hills, exiting at  much lower prices than on other exchanges, demonstrating the extreme liquidity risk inherent in Bitcoin speculating," said Williams in an email to Business Insider. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jonathan Ernst U.S. House Majority Leader Eric Cantor (R-VA) (L) stands with House Speaker John Boehner (R-OH) at a news conference after a House Republican caucus meeting at the U.S. Capitol in Washington, January 14, 2014.IT TOOK barely a month for the bubble of optimism that formed over the American economy at the start of the year to deflate. Job growth slowed sharply in December, and stayed weak in January, suggesting more than bad weather was to blame. The unemployment rate, though, tells a much cheerier story: it dropped to 6.6% in January from 7% in November. Indeed, it could soon hit the Federal Reserve’s 6.5% threshold at which it may consider raising interest rates. The jobless number has been sending a strangely upbeat message about America’s recovery for some years now. Yet the Fed and other researchers have downplayed its significance, linking the rate less to buoyant demand for labour than to stagnant supply, as discouraged workers stop hunting for jobs. On February 11th Janet Yellen, in her inaugural appearance before Congress as chairman of the Fed, called the recovery in the labour market "far from complete" and averred that she would consider "more than the unemployment rate" in deciding when to declare it healed. Even so, recent research suggests the unemployment rate is saying something important. It’s just that the message is a depressing one: America’s labour supply may be permanently stunted. If so that would mean that the economy is operating closer to potential--using all available capital and labour--than generally thought, and that there is less downward pressure on inflation than the Fed has assumed. The EconomistFiguring out the gap between actual and potential output is tricky because potential, always hard to discern, is more uncertain than usual. In a recent report Lewis Alexander of Nomura Securities, a bank, calculated the output gap using three different labour market indicators (see chart). The proportion of people with jobs plunged from 63% of the population in late 2007 to below 59% in 2009. It has barely budged since, suggesting the output gap has not closed at all. The unemployment rate, in contrast, is 1.1 percentage points above its estimated "natural rate" of 5.5%, suggesting most of the output gap has disappeared. Finally, if one looks just at those who have been unemployed for less than six months, the output gap appears to have closed completely. Deciding which measure to use involves determining why so many people have left the labour force. The labour participation rate (measuring those in work or looking for it) is down to 63% from 66% in 2007. The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) attributes just a third of that decrease to discouraged workers who have temporarily stopped looking for jobs. The remainder it ascribes to demographics, as ageing baby boomers retire early, or to people who have gone jobless for so long they have permanently given up looking. This is one reason the CBO has sharply revised down its estimate of America’s potential, and with it, the size of the output gap, which it now puts at a little over 4% of GDP. Had its estimates of the economy’s potential not shrunk since 2008, that gap would be more than 10% of GDP. So if the unemployment rate is understating the output gap, it is not by much. Indeed, for the Fed’s purposes, it may even be overstating the gap. That’s because the longer someone is unemployed, the less attention they get from recruiters and the less vigorously they hunt for work. As a result they are not much of a curb on wages. In 2005 Ricardo Llaudes of the European Central Bank found that short-term unemployment predicted inflation in European economies better than total unemployment. This was less true for America, where short-term and long-term unemployment have tended to move together. But the two have recently parted ways, with long-term unemployment declining much more slowly. Several researchers from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York recently re-examined the relationship and found that short-term unemployment better explained why wage growth has not fallen further. To be sure, inflation itself has fallen to a little over 1%, well below the Fed’s 2% target. But a report accompanying Ms Yellen’s testimony attributed some of that to falling commodity prices and a stronger dollar. It noted that growth in wages has been weak but that unit labour costs, which adjust wages for productivity, are growing at about the same rate as before the recession. This doesn’t mean the Fed has to raise interest rates now, given how low inflation is. But if inflation moves up, "this debate becomes front and centre, right away," says Mr Alexander. The Fed could, of course, let inflation rise above its target in hopes of getting unemployment down further. Ms Yellen played a central role in the adoption of a strategy that allows for that. But it may be fighting a losing battle. Unpublished research by Alan Krueger of Princeton University finds that in 2010 about 18% of the long-term unemployed quit the workforce each month. That has since risen to 24%. Meanwhile, the rate at which they find work has edged down to 10% per month. The work they find is often transitory or part-time. Thus, with each passing month, more of the unemployed are drifting to the fringes of the labour market than re-entering it. More monetary and fiscal stimulus may have saved them a few years ago, but are of much less help now. Policymakers will need to put more effort into making the long-term unemployed once again employable. Barack Obama recently persuaded several hundred companies to pledge not to discriminate against them. Unfortunately that will probably not be nearly enough. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
Bristol-Myers SquibbAS INVESTORS and executives crammed into a New York ballroom for a conference held this week by the Biotechnology Industry Organisation, the mood was jittery.  The previous week eight biotech firms had launched initial public offerings in America, together raising more than $500m. In a discussion panel on whether the industry’s latest boom will last, a prominent investor, Oleg Nodelman, joked that he still had suitcases of cash for any firm that wanted it. Biotechnology is the creation of drugs and other useful products by making use of "nature’s toolkit"--that is, by adapting or exploiting processes found in living organisms. For example, Argos Therapeutics, one of the latest batch of firms to raise money, is working on ways to trigger patients’ own immune systems to fight kidney cancer or HIV infection. The industry has undergone cycles of boom and bust since its inception in the 1970s, pioneered by firms such as Genentech. (We review a new book about Vertex, another early entrant, "The pharmaceutical industry: When the times were a-changing".) As the chart shows, last year more biotech firms joined American stockmarkets, raising more money, than at any time since the golden year of 2000. In the past 12 months, even as the S&amp;P 500 share index has risen by 20%, shares in biotech firms have surged by almost three times as much. The EconomistOne of the main causes for the millennial boom was that investors, flush with money they had made from internet firms, became excited about the Human Genome Project. They hoped that this massive, government-backed effort to lay out the entire genetic code of Homo sapiens would lead to a proliferation of profitable new treatments. Biotech’s flowering is taking some time, however. Biology is complex. Drugs have a habit of being too toxic or not working as well as they should. Indeed, creating new drugs through biotechnology is at the risky end of a business in which superhuman stamina and bottomless pockets are minimum requirements. The Boston Consulting Group reckons that 90% of the money spent researching new treatments, conventional or biotech, goes on drugs that ultimately fail. After spending as much as $2 billion, accounting for all the failures, a company just might have a medicine that works. But then it must win the favour of the world’s most stringent regulators, and convince governments, insurers and patients that the drug is worth paying for. Overcome these obstacles, however, and the returns can be fabulous. Stelios Papadopolous, a veteran biotech investor, argues that much of the recent rise in share prices is due not to froth, but because the industry is beginning to deliver promising treatments. In December America’s Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved Sovaldi, a treatment for hepatitis C. It could now earn revenues of more than $3 billion this year for its maker, Gilead, a biotech firm from California. Biogen Idec, a firm based in Massachusetts, is expected to earn more than $1 billion a year from Tecfidera, a pill for multiple sclerosis that the FDA approved last year. The firm’s shares rose by almost 90% in 2013. But the question is whether such triumphs are aberrations or hints of other victories yet to come. There are several reasons to hope that even if the current share-price and IPO frenzy subsides, biotech firms will continue to prosper. First, many smaller firms have become the research engines for bigger ones, explains Kevin Starr of Third Rock, a venture-capital firm. For example Sanofi, a French pharmaceutical giant, now depends on Regeneron, an American biotech company, to help drive its growth. This year alone, Sanofi will pump about $1 billion into Regeneron’s research programme. The goal is not to "Sanofise" Regeneron or any other partner, says Christopher Viehbacher, Sanofi’s chief executive. Rather, it is to combine Regeneron’s capabilities in researching new treatments with Sanofi’s skill in bringing them to market. Celgene, one of America’s larger biotech firms, has a similar "distributed model" of research. It helps finance the scientific work at smaller companies, then usually takes over a drug’s development as it moves into clinical trials. Besides being costly, these require expertise that younger, smaller firms often lack. Second--and more important--firms are at last starting to reap the rewards of studying the human genome. As researchers illuminate the underlying genetic causes of a disease, they open up new routes to developing treatments. For example, Vertex has a drug to treat a subset of patients with cystic fibrosis, thanks to a better understanding of the faulty gene that causes it. Bluebird bio, one of Celgene’s small partner firms, which Third Rock also financed, is working on a treatment for sickle-cell disease that inserts into the patient’s blood cells a properly functioning version of the faulty gene that causes the inherited ailment. Advances in genomics are making clinical trials smaller and cheaper, since it is now easier to identify which patients have the specific genetic trait that a new drug is aimed at. This makes it more worthwhile to research diseases that are rare, and those that have so far proved intractable. The FDA gives special consideration to drugs that treat such ailments, so companies can expect a speedier path to approval. The venture capitalists who back biotech firms are trying to avoid the mistakes they made in the past. Index Ventures, based in Geneva, does not shower companies with cash to build lavish headquarters. Instead it assembles a tiny team of scientists and executives to oversee the research on a promising new line of treatment, outsourcing the bulk of the work to external contractors. This makes the costs more predictable. It also makes it easier for Index to halt a project when it looks like failing. Despite all these reasons for optimism, there is no guarantee that the current boom will last. In these sunny times, it is tempting to forget the dark days that companies have endured. "Twenty-five years later," quips Leonard Schleifer of Regeneron, "I’m an overnight success." It is also uncertain that insurers and governments will continue to pay biotech firms’ high prices. Vertex’s treatment for cystic fibrosis costs a staggering $294,000 for each course. The most important question is whether research has indeed become more productive. More than 80% of those recently polled by Mark Schoenebaum, an analyst at ISI Group, said yes. Mr Schoenebaum himself, however, is unconvinced. "I’m not arguing definitively that it hasn’t happened," he muses, "but I haven’t been entirely persuaded." There are no data yet, he says, to draw firm conclusions. And for all the advances in genomics, and the increased sophistication of biotech firms and their investors, there is still "a lot of luck involved in R&amp;D." Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
    The "People Mover" is a unique light rail system in downtown Detroit that hardly anyone uses. Mainly because it can only go in one direction and covers a minuscule 2.9-mile circumference. The aptly named People Mover does have its uses, though, and, at just $0.75 a ride, it's super cheap. Problem is, the People Mover is quite the money-losing venture. Every ride taken on the People Mover costs the Detroit Transportation Corporation a little less than $4. Regardless, most Detroiters like the People Mover and don't want to get rid of it. Watch to learn more about this strange love/hate relationship between the city of Detroit and the People Mover. Produced by William Wei. Special thanks to Alex Davies.
Cameron Spencer/Getty ImagesEMERGING stockmarkets go in and out of fashion. They were battered during the Asian and Russian crises of the late 1990s, but then recovered to offer double-digit annual returns in the first decade of the 21st century. Since 2010, however, they have reverted to underperforming their developed-country rivals. The arguments in favour of investing in emerging markets are the same as they ever were. Such countries have faster growth, on average, than the rich world and a smaller weight in global equity indices than they do in the world’s GDP. But as Elroy Dimson, Paul Marsh and Mike Staunton of the London Business School have pointed out in the past, there is no automatic link between economic growth per person and stockmarket returns. In their latest report for Credit Suisse, a bank, the academics explore this issue in more detail. They find one slightly odd distinction: the correlation between equity returns and economic growth per person since 1900 has been negative, but that between equity returns and aggregate GDP growth is actually positive. A growing population, in other words, is better for equities than a richer one. This relationship is, alas, not very useful for investors. Let us assume that they make forecasts of economic growth by extrapolation from the data for the previous five years, and put money in the equity markets of the countries that have grown the fastest. Since 1972, that approach would have delivered a return of 14.5% a year in dollar terms. But had they invested in the economies with the slowest growth record, investors would have earned 24.6% (see chart). The EocnomistThis may partly be down to a "value" effect, similar to that observed with individual stocks. Countries with good growth records become favoured by investors who bid up share prices accordingly; future equity returns are thus lower. But countries with poor growth records see their stockmarkets shunned; their share prices are thus cheap and offer higher subsequent returns. Another problem is that extrapolating from past economic growth simply doesn’t work. The report finds no correlation since 1900 between GDP growth per person in an individual country in one year and growth two years later. Furthermore, a stockmarket is not a perfect representation of the domestic economy; successful companies may be privately owned and not listed on the market while many big companies (as in China) may be owned by the state. As they grow, companies issue more shares; as a result, existing shareholders do not gain all the benefits of higher profits. Over the long term, these dilution effects mean that investors do not get all the benefits of GDP growth, in the sense that dividends grow more slowly than the economy. Between 1900 and 2013, real dividends declined slightly (0.1% a year) over the 21 countries for which the academics have data, while GDP growth was 2.8% a year. Even in America, the most successful economy over the period, real dividends grew by 1.6% while GDP growth was 3.4%. The report does find that prior knowledge of GDP growth would be useful. If investors had had perfect foresight of which economies would grow fastest over the following five years, and had invested accordingly, they could have earned 28.8% a year. Then again, if the fates were to grant investors perfect foresight, it would be simpler for them to be aware of the best performing markets, not the best economies. In the absence of such powers, emerging markets still have their attractions. The academics reconstruct an emerging-market universe going back to 1900 using a definition based on GDP per head; starting with a group of seven (China, Finland, Japan, Portugal, Russia, South Africa and Spain). Over the extended period, emerging markets underperformed, returning 7.4% versus 8.3% for the developed world. However, the biggest period of underperformance was in the 1940s, when Japanese equities lost 98% of their dollar value and the Chinese market disappeared in the revolution. Since 1950, emerging markets have returned 12.5% a year against the developed markets’ 10.8%. This is the right result, in theory: emerging markets are riskier (in the sense of being more volatile) and so investors should demand a higher return. The good news is that volatility has declined over time, both in absolute terms and relative to developed markets. The bad news is that, in the five years to the end of 2013, the correlation between emerging markets and their developed brethren was twice as strong as it was in the early 1990s. Globalisation has integrated developing stockmarkets as well as their economies. Economist.com/blogs/buttonwood Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
Emerging markets have been in the news a lot so far in 2014. The slide below, taken from Deutsche Bank's latest "House View" presentation, sums up nine of the biggest stories playing out in EM right now. Deutsche Bank Research
AP Photo/Nabil al-JuraniPoliticians and activists may love to talk about renewable energy sources, but in today’s world fossil fuels are still king. Indeed, as technology has developed in recent years, previously unreachable oil and gas reserves, like shale gas, have become huge sources of industry.  Using data from British Petroleum’s 2013 statistical review of world energy, we calculated the countries with the largest reserves in three key fossil fuel categories—oil, coal, and natural gas. We then calculated the total value of the reserves by using current global prices. For oil, we used the current Brent Crude Oil price on Bloomberg Markets. For natural gas, we averaged BP’s 2013 prices for Japan, United States and Germany to accommodate for the diverse world market. For coal, we used the World Bank’s 2013 trading price for Australian coal, which is commonly used as a benchmark for global markets. While the data is imprecise, our ranking reveals which countries control the most energy. As developing economies like China and India expand and fossil fuel supplies dwindle, those reserves will be more important than ever. FREE AppDownload
Renaissance Macro January retail sales data were not good by any measure, and they have economists trying to fit the puzzle pieces together today. The chart above — from Neil Dutta, head of U.S. economics at Renaissance Macro — does an excellent job of illustrating the frustration. Recent retail sales data just don't square with recent jobs data. "Something has to give," says Dutta. "There is a widening disconnect. Either retailers stick with it and stay confident on the expectations that sales will improve, or they will be forced to cut employment dramatically." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Marcos BrindicciTraders work on the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange floor during mid-afternoon trading, May 7, 2004.One hundred years ago Argentina was the future. What went wrong? WHEN the residents of Buenos Aires want to change the pesos they do not trust into the dollars they do, they go to a cueva, or "cave", an office that acts as a front for a thriving illegal exchange market. In one cueva near Florida Street, a pedestrian thoroughfare in the centre of the city, piles of pesos from previous transactions lie on a table. A courier is getting ready to carry the notes to safety-deposit boxes. This smallish cueva handles transactions worth $50,000-75,000 a day. Fear of inflation and of further depreciation of the peso, which fell by more than 20% in January, will keep demand for dollars high. Few other ways of making money are this good. "Modern Argentina does not offer what you could call an institutional career," says one cueva owner. As the couriers carry their bundles around Buenos Aires, they pass grand buildings like the Teatro Colón, an opera house that opened in 1908, and the Retiro railway station, completed in 1915. These are emblems of Argentina’s Belle Époque, the period before the outbreak of the first world war when the country could claim to be the world’s true land of opportunity. In the 43 years leading up to 1914, GDP had grown at an annual rate of 6%, the fastest recorded in the world. The country was a magnet for European immigrants, who flocked to find work on the fertile pampas, where crops and cattle were propelling Argentina’s expansion. In 1914 half of Buenos Aires’s population was foreign-born. The Economist The country ranked among the ten richest in the world, after the likes of Australia, Britain and the United States, but ahead of France, Germany and Italy. Its income per head was 92% of the average of 16 rich economies. From this vantage point, it looked down its nose at its neighbours: Brazil’s population was less than a quarter as well-off. It never got better than this. Although Argentina has had periods of robust growth in the past century--not least during the commodity boom of the past ten years--and its people remain wealthier than most Latin Americans, its standing as one of the world’s most vibrant economies is a distant memory (see chart 1). Its income per head is now 43% of those same 16 rich economies; it trails Chile and Uruguay in its own back yard. The political symptoms of decline are also clear. If Argentina appeared to enjoy stability in the pre-war era, its history since then has been marked by a succession of military coups. The first came in 1930; others followed in 1943, 1955, 1962, 1966 and 1976. The election of 1989 marked the first time in more than 60 years that a civilian president had handed power to an elected successor. It is now more than 30 years since the end of military dictatorship, but democracy has not yet led to stability. Argentines reach for the metaphor of the "pendulum" to describe the swings of the past three decades: from loose economic policies in the 1980s to Washington-consensus liberalisation in the 1990s and back again under the presidency of Néstor Kirchner and now his widow, Cristina Fernández de Kirchner. But the image of a pendulum does not do justice to the whiplashing of the economy (see chart 2)--the repeated recessions of the 1970s and 1980s, the hyperinflation of 1989-90, the economic crisis of 2001 and now the possibility of another crisis to come. Argentina is a long way from the turmoil of 2001 but today’s mix of rising prices, wage pressures and the mistrust of the peso have nasty echoes of the past. Internationally, too, Argentina has lost its way. It has shut itself out of global capital markets, although negotiations are under way to restructure its debts with the Paris Club of international creditors. Brazil, hardly a free-trade paragon, is pressing Argentina to open its borders; once it would have been the other way round. "Only people this sophisticated could create a mess this big," runs a Brazilian joke that plays on Argentines’ enduring sense of being special. The country’s dramatic decline has long puzzled economists. Simon Kuznets, a Nobel laureate, is supposed to have remarked: "There are four kinds of countries in the world: developed countries, undeveloped countries, Japan and Argentina." Other countries have since managed to copy Japan’s rapid industrialisation; Argentina remains in a class of its own. There is no shortage of candidates for the moment when the country started to go wrong. There was the shock of the first world war and the Depression to an open trading economy; or the coup of 1930; or Argentina’s neutrality in the second world war, which put it at odds with America, the new superpower. There was the rise of Juan Domingo Perón, the towering figure of 20th-century Argentina, who took power in 1946. Others reckon that things really went downhill between 1975 and 1990. The Economist No one theory solves the puzzle. "If a guy has been hit by 700,000 bullets it’s hard to work out which one of them killed him," says Rafael di Tella, who has co-edited a forthcoming book on Argentina’s decline. But three deep-lying explanations help to illuminate the country’s diminishment. Firstly, Argentina may have been rich 100 years ago but it was not modern. That made adjustment hard when external shocks hit. The second theory stresses the role of trade policy. Third, when it needed to change, Argentina lacked the institutions to create successful policies. Take each in turn. The first explanation is that Argentina was rich in 1914 because of commodities; its industrial base was only weakly developed. Filipe Campante and Edward Glaeser of Harvard University compared Buenos Aires before the first world war with Chicago, another great shipment hub for meat and grains. They found that whereas literacy rates stood at 95% in Chicago in 1895, less than three-quarters of porteños, as residents of Buenos Aires are known, knew how to read and write. The landowners who made Argentina rich were not so bothered about educating it: cheap labour was what counted. That attitude prevailed into the 1940s, when Argentina had among the highest rates of primary-school enrolment in the world and among the lowest rates of secondary-school attendance. Primary school was important to create a sense of citizenship, says Axel Rivas of CIPPEC, a think-tank. But only the elite needed to be well educated. Without a good education system, Argentina struggled to create competitive industries. It had benefited from technology in its Belle Époque period. Railways transformed the economics of agriculture and refrigerated shipping made it possible to export meat on an unprecedented scale: between 1900 and 1916 Argentine exports of frozen beef rose from 26,000 tonnes to 411,000 tonnes a year. But Argentina mainly consumed technology from abroad rather than inventing its own. Technological innovation needs not only educated people but access to money. Argentina’s golden age was largely foreign-funded. Half of the country’s capital stock was in foreign hands in 1913, further exposing it to external shocks. Low levels of domestic savings can in part be explained by demography: large numbers of immigrants with dependent children spent money rather than saving it. Argentina had become rich by making a triple bet on agriculture, open markets and Britain, then the world’s pre-eminent power and its biggest trading partner. If that bet turned sour, it would require a severe adjustment. External shocks duly materialised, which leads to the second theory for Argentine decline: trade policy. The first world war delivered the initial blow to trade. It also put a lasting dent in levels of investment. In a foreshadowing of the 2007-08 global financial crisis, foreign capital headed for home and local banks struggled to fill the gap. Next came the Depression, which crushed the open trading system on which Argentina depended; Argentina raised import tariffs from an average of 16.7% in 1930 to 28.7% in 1933. Reliance on Britain, another country in decline, backfired as Argentina’s favoured export market signed preferential deals with Commonwealth countries. Indeed, one way to think about Argentina in the 20th century is as being out of sync with the rest of the world. It was the model for export-led growth when the open trading system collapsed. After the second world war, when the rich world began its slow return to free trade with the negotiation of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade in 1947, Argentina had become a more closed economy--and it kept moving in that direction under Perón. An institution to control foreign trade was created in 1946; an existing policy of import substitution deepened; the share of trade as a percentage of GDP continued to fall. These autarkic policies had deep roots. Many saw the interests of Argentina’s food exporters as being at odds with those of workers. High food prices meant big profits for farmers but empty stomachs for ordinary Argentines. Open borders increased farmers’ takings but sharpened competition from abroad for domestic industry. The pampas were divided up less equally than farmland in places like the United States or Australia: the incomes of the richest 1% of Argentines were strongly correlated with the exports of crops and livestock. As the urban, working-class population swelled, so did the constituency susceptible to Perón’s promise to support industry and strengthen workers’ rights. There have been periods of liberalisation since, but interventionism retains its allure. "One-third of the country--the commodities industry, engineers and regional industries like wine and tourism--is ready to compete," says Sergio Berensztein, a political analyst. "Two-thirds are not." The divide between farmers and workers endures. Heavy export taxes on crops allow the state to top up its dwindling foreign-exchange reserves; limits on wheat exports create surpluses that drive down local prices. But they also dissuade farmers from planting more land, enabling other countries to steal market share. The perverse effects of intervention have been amply demonstrated in the Kirchner era: according to the US Department of Agriculture, Argentina was the world’s fourth-largest exporter of wheat in 2006. By 2013 it had dropped to tenth place. "The Argentine model of 100 years ago--producing as much as you can--is the one others now follow," laments Luis Miguel Etchevehere, the president of the Rural Society of Argentina, a farmers’ lobby. Some commodity-rich economies have resolved these tensions. Australia, for example, shared many of the traits of early 20th-century Argentina: lots of commodities, a history of immigration and remoteness from big industrial centres. Yet it managed to develop a broader-based economy than Argentina and grew faster. Between 1929 and 1975 Australian income per person increased at an average annual rate of 0.96%, compared with 0.67% in Argentina. Australia had some big advantages: the price of minerals does not affect domestic consumers in the same way as the price of food, for instance. But it also had the institutions to balance competing interests: a democracy in which the working class was represented; an apprenticeship system; an independent Tariff Board to advise the government on trade. Argentina had not evolved this political apparatus, despite an early move to universal male suffrage in 1912. The third theory for Argentine decline points to the lack of institutions to develop long-term state policies--what Argentines call política de Estado. The constant interruptions to democracy are not the only manifestation of this institutional weakness. The Supreme Court has been overhauled several times since Perón first changed its membership in 1946. Presidents have a habit of tinkering with the constitution to allow them to serve more terms: Ms Fernández was heading this way before poor mid-term election results last year weakened her position. Property rights are insecure: ask Repsol, the Spanish firm whose stake in YPF, an Argentine oil company, was nationalised in 2012. Statistics cannot be trusted: Argentina was due this week to unveil new inflation data in a bid to avoid censure from the IMF for its wildly undercooked previous estimates. Budgets can be changed at will by the executive. Roberto Lavagna, a former economy minister, would like to see a requirement for parliamentary approval of budget amendments. First, Argentina has to get out of its mess. Keen to husband its stock of foreign reserves and to close the gap between the official and unofficial exchange rates, the central bank allowed the peso to slide last month. To prevent the depreciation from fuelling inflation expectations, it has raised interest rates. But further tightening will be needed. Rates remain negative in real terms; upcoming wage negotiations will be a test of how serious the government is about controlling spending. Ms Fernández will probably struggle on until the 2015 presidential election, which optimists see as a turning-point. Economic wobbles before the election may discredit Peronism’s claim to be the party of strong government. But Peronism is a remarkably plastic political concept, capable of producing both the neoliberal policies overseen by Carlos Menem in the 1990s and the redistributive policies of the Kirchners. The idea of a party that pays the price of bad policies does not seem to apply. Short-termism is embedded in the system. Money is concentrated in the centre, and the path to power goes via subsidies and splurging: the Kirchners are only the latest culprits, turning a fiscal surplus of 2% of GDP in 2005 into an estimated 2% deficit last year. "We have spent 50 years thinking about maintaining government spending, not about investing to grow," says Fernando de la Rúa, a former president who resigned during the 2001 crisis. This short-termism distinguishes Argentina from other Latin American countries that have suffered institutional breakdowns. Chile’s military dictatorship was a catastrophic fracture with democracy but it introduced long-lasting reforms. Mexico’s Institutional Revolutionary Party governed steadily for most of the 20th century. "In Argentina institution-building has taken the form of very quick and clientilist redistribution," says Daron Acemoglu of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. It will take an unusual politician to change Argentina’s institutions, especially if another commodities windfall eases the pressure to reform. The country’s Vaca Muerta ("Dead Cow") shale-oil and gasfield is estimated to be the world’s third-largest. If Argentina can attract foreign capital, the money could start flowing within a decade. "Vaca Muerta gives us huge capacity to recover and huge opportunity to make mistakes," says Mr Lavagna. Argentines themselves must also change. The Kirchners’ redistributive policies have helped the poor, but goodies such as energy subsidies have been doled out to people who do not really need them. Persuading the population to embrace the concept of necessary pain will be difficult. That is partly because the experience of the 1990s discredited liberal reforms in the eyes of many Argentines. But it is also because reform requires them to confront their own unprecedented decline. No other country came so close to joining the rich world, only to slip back. Understanding why is the first step to a better future. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
Paramount PicturesMost of our deep-seated beliefs about money, which we may or may not be aware of, are formed during childhood. Or they’re cultural norms we’ve swallowed whole, without even realizing we have. The problem is, these oft-cited maxims aren’t always true. And believing them can do damage to your bottom line. So we asked two financial experts for the truth about some of the common beliefs we all love to hold dear. See which of these six you need to rethink—and which may still hold some truth. The first thing our experts pointed out was: How much money you earn doesn’t always correlate with how much you have. “Sometimes people who earn lots of money also spend lots of money. As their salaries go up, so does their standard of living,” says Certified Financial Planner™ Brad Klontz, who is also the co-author of “Mind Over Money.” What matters more is how you manage your money. And, research shows, more money doesn’t necessarily equate to more happiness either. In fact studies have shown that a $75,000 salary was, for most people, the tipping point on the scales of contentment. “After you reach that amount, making more money won’t substantially improve your quality of life,” says Susan Bradley, a Certified Financial Planner™, and the founder of the Sudden Money Institute. There is also research to show that what you spend on, specifically, influences your happiness, too. We spoke to a behavioral psychologist from Harvard to discover the types of purchases that really do bring us the most satisfaction. Yes, of course, as a parent, your first responsibility is to make sure your kids are clothed and fed and comfortable, but when it comes to bigger personal finance goals, like saving for your retirement versus their college education, the opposite is actually true. “You have to take care of yourself first, so you’re able to take care of your kids,” says Klontz. Translation: There are student loans to pay for their college, but there are no loans for your retirement. If you fail to save enough to live on, you could be putting financial pressure on your kids to support you later. The same logic applies if your kids want material things that you can’t afford, such as designer clothes or expensive birthday parties. “Set boundaries when it comes to finances, so your kids will share your money values,” says Bradley. For instance, if your son wants pricey sneakers, say: “I will pay for this pair of sneakers. If you want a fancy brand, you need to pay the difference.” Or, anytime your child gets a monetary gift, require him or her to save some, give some away and spend some. RELATED: 9 Financial Lessons Money Experts Teach Their Kids Sure, there are plenty of debts that are “bad.” Specifically, this is the money you borrow to pay for something other than an asset that’s likely to increase in value. Credit cards are the best example: “If you don’t pay off your credit card each month, you can fall into a terrible trap,” says Klontz. You also want to avoid being in debt to a friend or family member. “It’s dangerous and could potentially lead to relationship problems,” he says. A form of bad debt that most people find surprising? A car loan. After you buy it, a car’s value doesn’t appreciate. Instead, it’s value goes south. But there is definitely good debt. This is the money you borrow to pay for something you expect to increase in value over time. “If you are paying student loans that enable you to get a good education and land a job you like that pays well, then it’s a worthwhile investment,” says Klontz, noting that people with bachelor’s degrees tend to make twice as much as those with only high school degrees. Property is another example: If you hold onto it for long enough, your house will most likely sell for a higher price than the one at which you bought it. And, the profit you make by selling it should make the interest you paid on the loan worthwhile. This really depends on your personal financial situation. For example, “If you’re having trouble paying your rent, then it may be smart to hold off on having a child,” says Klontz. Or if you don’t currently have health insurance, it might be wiser to wait until you do. But, generally speaking, you should be saving up for longer-term money goals so you can create the life you want, without the cost taking you by surprise. In fact, LearnVest experts recommend starting an emergency fund so you’re always covered, and also setting up separate savings accounts to fund your different goals. In the Money Center, you can even set up a priority goal and see how long it will take you to save enough money to reach it. Sometimes the answer isn’t delaying your dream or going after it—it’s getting creative and doing a mixture of both. “I knew a woman who wanted to travel the world. So she would take a job as a nanny in Europe, work for a month or two at a time, live with a family and save most of the money. And then she’d take a month or two off and travel on her own,” says Bradley. RELATED: Dreaming Big: How 4 Real People Reached Their Ultimate Money Goals This attitude plays into the “American Dream,” but “buying a house shouldn’t be a romantic decision—it should be a financial decision,” says Klontz. The first thing to assess is where your life is headed. Do you plan on being in the same city (or even neighborhood) for the next few years? If not, then owning property isn’t in your immediate future, because, in general, it takes time for property to appreciate. You also need to decide how much you can actually afford. There are a lot of costs that come with home ownership besides your down payment. One of the most common home-buying mistakes people make is thinking that they’re merely trading a rent payment for a mortgage. You’ll also want to estimate the property taxes and insurance of any property you consider, plus any renovations you’d need to do, then decide if the place is within your reach. In the end, the biggest mistake isn’t not buying a home—it’s buying too much home for your budget. The first thing to realize is that this thought pattern can be detrimental to your financial success. “It’s a limiting belief,” says Bradley. The truth is, money, on its own, isn’t good or bad, it’s what you do with it that matters. You can certainly point to examples of rich, corrupt people. But you can also point to examples of rich, moral people (Bill Gates comes to mind) and poor, corrupt people. “Some people think that all rich people are greedy and immoral,” adds Klontz. “As a result, they might subconsciously choose a career path that typically doesn’t lead to extreme wealth, so they’re not viewed that way. We’ve seen this happen with lottery winners. They come into a lot of money and then become uncomfortable and anxious,” he says. Remember, money is about choice, and you can use it to reach your goals, whether, to you, that means having a fat savings account so you never have to worry, donating to causes you believe in, or leaving it to your grandkids some day. FREE AppDownload
Michael SetoHenry Blodget, Jim Bankoff & Lockhart SteeleWe're thrilled to announce December 1-3 as the dates for IGNITION: Future of Digital. Business Insider’s flagship event is in its fifth year running and is moving to a new venue, The Times Center in New York. We'll have an opening kick-off in the afternoon of the 1st, followed by two days of jam-packed sessions on Dec. 2-3. IGNITION brings together 700 senior executives from the converging worlds of media, technology, marketing, and investing.  Their mission will be to explore the ongoing explosion of new business models being fueled by digital technology and the Internet. IGNITION attracts speakers like Elon Musk, Travis Kalanick, Sheryl Sandberg, Jeff Weiner, Fred Wilson, Jeff Bewkes, Andrew Mason, Shane Smith, Arianna Huffington, Jason Kilar, Dr. Mehmet Oz, Nick Denton, and many more — along with emerging startups who discuss and demo disruptive technologies. Now that you have the date, don't delay! Extra-early-bird tickets are available here and will save you half off the ticket price. If you're interested in joining the IGNITION community by supporting the event as a sponsor, contact events@businessinsider.com. For programming suggestions, please submit here. Keep up to date by following @BI_Events on Twitter and joining the IGNITION group on LinkedIn. Check out IGNITION 2013 highlights here.  FREE AppDownload
AP In a pre-emptive strike last night, New York City Schools Chancellor Carmen Farina said that city schools will be open today despite the brutal storm that could bring 8-12 inches to New York. "Due to anticipated inclement weather conditions, all school field trips will be cancelled tomorrow. Schools will be open," Farina said. This has led to some predictable grumbling and even outrage, but New York City has a history of actively trying to avoid closing schools. ABC 7 asked Farina today for more clarification on the decision to keep schools open. A big part of the decision, she said, comes down to the fact that if schools are closed, many children don't eat. "If people can go to work, then kids can go to school," she said. "Many of our kids don't get a hot lunch and, in many cases breakfast, unless they go to school. So it's still a parent's decision whether they send their kids to school or not. My decision is where the kids are safest and the most taken care of, and the answer to that is in schools." She emphasized that parents should make their own decisions on whether they wanted to send their children to school. "Parents, as always, should exercise their own judgment with regard to their children. Safety is a top priority for the Department," Farina said. There has been one snow day during the short administration of Mayor Bill de Blasio. That came on Jan. 3, when snow combined with frigid temperatures in the first "polar vortex" of the year. The de Blasio administration was criticized for not canceling school on other days, including the Jan. 22 storm that brought about one foot of snow to New York. According to Gothamist, there have been just six city school closings due to snow over the past 13 years — a March blizzard in 2001, a January 2004 snowstorm, a March 2009 snow storm, two February 2010 storms, and a January 2011 storm.  New York City schools closed for five days in the aftermath of Hurricane Sandy. But that storm crippled the city's subway system. That's not the case in snowstorms, when the city's subway and bus systems typically run rather smoothly or with slight delays. NOW WATCH: Detroit Is Losing Money On Its Bizarre 'People Mover' Train That No One Ever Rides   FREE AppDownload
MarketWatch/Mark HulbertThe 1929 chart is making the rounds again. You've probably seen this chart, which compares the market's gains over the last year to those in 1929, leading up to the crash. Noted market-timer Tom DeMark has been talking about it. So too, apparently, has Doug Kass, according to Mark Hulbert, a columnist at MarketWatch. "In an email earlier this week, Kass wrote of the parallels with 1928-29: 'While investment history doesn’t necessarily repeat itself, it does rhyme'," says Hulbert. "And, based on a number of indicators rather than just this chart drawing the 1928-29 parallel, he believes that 'the correction might have just started.'" Let's take another look at this. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz (data from St. Louis Fed) We explained the flawed logic behind this comparison back in November, the first time the chart made the rounds. If you adjust the chart to show how far the market advanced in each case in percentage terms, it looks much less scary. What is in stake for the S&amp;P 500 in the unlikely event that it does end up following the 1929 pattern? A 24% decline from the January 15, 2014 peak — about half the size of 1929's initial 44% crash. FREE AppDownload
AP If there was any doubt after the government shutdown and last protracted battle over the debt ceiling, this cave from Republicans should make it clear: The debt ceiling is no longer a legitimate political weapon. House Speaker John Boehner will bring a "clean" debt-ceiling increase to the floor on Tuesday night. For Republicans, it completes an epic swing in positions from 2011, when they first made the debt-ceiling increase a major vehicle to try to force spending cuts from President Barack Obama and Democrats. Consider the swing: In 2011, Boehner established the rule in his namesake — "the Boehner rule," which required a dollar in cuts for every dollar raised in the debt ceiling. In 2013, the Boehner rule is dead. And in the end, even before Republican leaders conceded and said they would allow a "clean" hike to come to the floor, Republicans were talking about spending increases that would be attached with the bill. It got to the point last week, when House leaders were considering a method called "pension smoothing" as a "pay-for" on debt-ceiling-related provisions, that some Democrats were left baffled. Because, as a Senate Democratic aide explained, every Senate Democrat had voted for the method as a "pay-for" on an extension of unemployment insurance the previous day. "Every single Senate Democrat voted for pension smoothing yesterday as a pay-for on UI. I don’t know how Boehner is pitching this to his caucus — if we need to participate in the kabuki that they’re 'really getting one over on us' with something we’re actually fine with in order to avoid a worldwide financial calamity, then so be it," the aide said. The dismantling of the debt ceiling as a weapon goes back to the fiscal cliff fight of late 2012, when Obama said that he wouldn't negotiate again with the full faith and credit of the U.S. on the table. He would not normalize that negotiation. That became the Democratic line, and they stuck to it. They have been remarkably unified in their stance, and it has largely worked in diffusing the threat. Last January, House Republicans attached a "No Budget, No Pay" provision to a debt-limit suspension. In October, when Republicans agreed to reopen the government and suspend the debt ceiling again, there were no strings attached. Democrats knew that, even though Republicans didn't want a fight over the debt ceiling this time, they had backed themselves into a corner. Sen. Patty Murray (D-Wash.), the chair of the Senate Budget Committee, time after time called Republicans' bluff on the issue. Mark Wilson/Getty Images"As you all know, they have tried this before, and the bottom line is the story always ends with a debt-ceiling increase," Murray wrote in a late January memo to colleagues. Democrats stuck to their position, while Republicans spent the better chunk of a month deciding what to do. When they finally did decide, it underscored how debt-ceiling brinksmanship is no longer a winning issue for the splintered caucus. Republicans couldn't even unify around two legislative priorities — approval of the Keystone XL Pipeline or repeal of a provision of the Affordable Care Act — because too many members of the caucus oppose a debt-ceiling increase on principle. They eventually settled on a restoration of military pension benefits as an add-on to the debt-ceiling increase. But that couldn't garner enough support, either, because conservatives realized that the vehicle they used to enact $1.2 trillion in cuts just 2.5 years ago was now being used to advance spending increases. As Rep. Chris Van Hollen (D-Md.), the ranking member of the House Budget Committee, told Business Insider late last month: "That's the risk of painting yourself in a corner with no exit strategy." FREE AppDownload
Business Insider AustraliaJay Simons at an Atlassian user conferenceBack in 1992, British professor Robin Dunbar theorized that people could only maintain a maximum of 150 stable relationships due to limitations of the human brain. That’s a problem in the modern business world, where companies comprise hundreds, or even thousands, of people, and just about everyone you meet wants to stay in touch on Facebook, Twitter or LinkedIn. Atlassian president Jay Simons, who manages a team of about 260 people in San Francisco, has a nifty trick for remembering the basics about everyone who works in the US office. “We’re not all going to go out simultaneously because there’s not a bar big enough to hold us all, but I know everybody and I hang out with a bunch of people,” he said. “I pride myself on knowing every name in the [Atlassian] building, in part because I work really hard at it.” Here’s how he does it: “We do an all-staff meeting every month and we have a tradition where we introduce new employees and they have to come up and say who they are, what they’re going to do here and where they last were. One thing I insist on is I actually go around and take their picture for the [ slide] deck that we include them in. It’s the one opportunity were I can make sure that I can mentally record who they are. So I take their picture and I meet them, so I’ve had two minutes with them where I’m going to say ‘hi’. I may not see them [again] for the next couple of weeks.” Atlassian was founded by Sydneysiders Mike Cannon-Brooks and Scott Farquhar in 2001 and has grown rapidly from two to an organization of 750 in its 12 years. The company is widely expected to list on the NYSE or NASDAQ. This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
But there's something about money that gets the better of us. If you look at the rate of personal bankruptcies, financial crises, bubbles, student loans, debt defaults, and savings rates, I wonder whether people are just as bad at managing money today as they were in previous generations, maybe even worse. It's one of the only areas in life we seem to get progressively dumber at. Here are 77 reasons why people are awful at managing money. 1. You let your political views guide your investments without realizing that the market doesn't care who you voted for or which cable news outlet you find more honest. 2. Your definition of "long term" is the time between now and the next bear market, whenever that is. 3. You suffer from the Dunnnig-Krueger effect, lacking enough basic financial knowledge to even realize that you're making mistakes. People's lack of understanding about things like compound interest and inflation can lead them to believe they're making good financial decisions when in reality they're tripping over themselves with failure. 4. For every $1 raise you receive, your desires rise by $2 or more. 5. You spend lots of money on material stuff to impress other people without realizing those other people couldn't care less about you. You'd be shocked at how few people care where your purse was made or how much noise your car makes. 6. You are unshakably certain about things you know very little about, particularly regarding monetary policy. 7. You have never been able to predict what the market will do next. This doesn't deter you from trying to predict what the market will do next. 8. You don't learn vicariously from other people's financial problems. By the time you get the hang of making smart money decisions, your life expectancy rounds to zero. 9. You think you're young, invincible, and don't need health insurance. Then icy sidewalks, moving cars, and rapidly dividing cells prove you wrong. 10. You get upset when you hear on TV that the government is running a deficit. It doesn't bother you that you heard this on a TV you bought on a credit card in a home you purchased with a no-money-down mortgage. 11. You take out $200,000 in debt to earn a degree in a subject you're not interested in, doesn't offer marketable job skills, and for which you have no intention of working in -- all by age 22.  12. You're part of the roughly half of Americans who can't come up with $2,000 in 30 days for an emergency, even though you're also part of the roughly 100% of Americans who will need to come up with $2,000 in 30 days for an emergency at some point in your life. 13. The single largest expense you'll pay in life is interest. You'll spend more money on interest than food, vacations, cars, school, clothes, dinners out, and all forms of entertainment. You do this because you don't save enough and demand a lifestyle you can't actually afford. The future owns your income. 14. You're thrilled that the credit card you're paying 22% interest on offers 1% cash back on all purchases. 15. You spent the last five years arguing why Keynesian/Austrian economists were all wrong. The S&amp;P 500 (INDEX: ^GSPC) spent the last five years rallying 177%. 16. You think dollar-cost averaging is boring without realizing that the purpose of investing isn't to minimize boredom; it's to maximize returns. 17. You work in a stressful job in order to make enough money to have a stress-free life. You see no irony in this. 18. You're a pessimist in a world where far more people wake up in the morning trying to make things better than wake up thinking we're all doomed. 19. You try to keep up with the Jonses without realizing the Jonses are buried in debt and can probably never retire. 20. You think $1 million is a glamorously large amount money when it's what most people will need to cover their definition of a pretty mediocre retirement. 21. You associate all of your financial successes with skill and all of your financial failures with bad luck. 22. Rather than admitting and learning from your mistakes, you ignore them, bury them, make excuses for them, and blame them on others. 23. You anchor to whatever price you bought a stock for, without realizing that the market neither knows nor cares what you think is a "fair" price. 24. Your perception of history extends back about five years. This leads you to believe things like bonds are safe, the average recession is as bad as 2008 was, and we're in a new normal of high unemployment. 25. You come from a low- or middle- income household, don't qualify for scholarships, and think it's reasonable to attend a private college. 26. You aced your SATs and went to an Ivy League school. You think this qualifies you to be a financial genius without realizing that the single most important skill in finance is control over your emotions, not control over a Greek formula. 27. You say you'll be greedy when others are fearful, then seek the fetal position when the market falls 2%. 28. You worship "legendary" investors whose only real skill is marketing themselves. Their career track record probably lags a money market fund. 29. You think you can be a successful day trader when the hedge fund you're competing with can read a news report, figure out what it means, and place a trade, make a profit, and exit that trade in literally the time it takes you to click on said news report. 30. You let confirmation bias take control of your mind by only seeking out information from sources that agree with your pre-existing beliefs. 31. You think you're too young to start saving for retirement when every day that passes makes compound interest a little bit less effective. 32. You spend a month researching the best washing machine, then invest twice as much money in a penny stock based solely on a tip from a person you don't know and shouldn't trust. 33. You're investing for the next 50 years but get stressed when the market has a bad day. 34. You're willing to work hard for $15 an hour, but too lazy to spend four minutes to fill out your company's 401(k) paperwork that could result in thousands of dollars of free money from matching contributions. 35. You think you're doing great by building up an emergency fund that covers three months of living expenses when the average duration of unemployment these days is more like nine months. 36. You check your brokerage account more often when the market is going up than going down. 37. You size up the potential of investments based on past returns, rather than investments that (A) you understand, (B) have a competitive advantage, (C) fit your goals, and (D) sell for an attractive valuation. 38. You take something as mind-numbingly complex as the global economy and try to distill it down into small, elegant sound bites. 39. You don't respect the idea that "do nothing" are two of the most powerful words in investing. 40. You purchased investments from a guy wearing boat shoes with no socks, a blue shirt with a white collar, or suspenders This rarely ends well. 41. You feel especially smart after last year's 30% market rally without realizing that you had nothing to do with it. 42. You surround yourself with 18 hours a day of live market TV in a game that requires decades of doing almost nothing but waiting. 43. You hire a doctor to manage your health, an accountant to do your taxes, a lawyer to manage your legal problems, a plumber to fix your plumbing, a contractor to build your house, a trainer to help you exercise, a dentist to fix your teeth, and a pilot to fly when you travel. You wouldn't consider doing it differently. Then, with no experience, you go about investing willy nilly, all by yourself. 44. Hindsight bias fools you into thinking you saw the last financial crisis coming. Worse, this fools you again into thinking you'll be able to predict the next one. 45. You think financial news is published because it has useful information you need to know. In reality, it's published only because the publisher knows you'll read it. 46. You forget that the single most valuable asset you have as an investor is time. A 20-year-old has an asset Warren Buffett couldn't dream about. 47. You don't realize that the guy giving advice on TV doesn't know you, your circumstances, your goals, or your risk tolerance. He doesn't really care about you, either. He just wants to be seen on TV. 48. You have a financial plan without realizing that life neither knows nor cares about your plan. Whatever your plan is today, reality will surely look far different tomorrow. 49. You start saving a little bit of money. Great! It's better than nothing, but I see a lot of people who are proud of their savings when in reality it's an infinitesimally small percentage of what they'll need to retire. As the saying goes, "Save a little bit of money each month, and at the end of the year, you'll be surprised at how little you still have." If you think saving 30% or more of your income is insane, run the numbers. It might be close to what you'll need to retire happy. 50. You think it's impossible to live on less than $35,000 a year without realizing that literally 99% of the world does, even adjusted for purchasing power parity. 51. Your definition of a middle-class lifestyle is a 3,000-square foot home, more bathrooms than family members, three SUVs, private colleges, annual trips to Hawaii and Vail, Evian water, and yoga lessons. (Seriously, just stretch in your own living room.) 52. You can't acknowledge the role luck plays when making the occasional successful investment. (Also true when worshiping investors who made one big call that happened to be right.) 53. You suffer from hard-core belief bias. It's the tendency to accept or reject an argument based on how well it fits your pre-defined beliefs, rather than the objective facts of the situation. Pointing out that inflation has been low for the last five years is still met with suspicion by those who believe the Federal Reserve's actions must be causing hyperinflation. 54. You think the hybrid car is a better financial deal because it gets better gas millage, even though it costs $10,000 more than a comparable gas-engine model. You'll probably need to drive for a decade before the hybrid upgrade pays for itself, but in reality you'll trade the thing well before then. 55. You hate finance, think it's confusing, and don't want anything to do with it. You do, however, love money. You see no irony in this. 56. You think the stock market is too risky because it's volatile, without realizing that the biggest risk you face isn't volatility; It's not growing you assets by enough over the next several decades. 57. You've never been to a poor country, robbing you of the realization that the world doesn't care how entitled you feel, what you think is "fair," or what a real financial hardship is. 58. You think blowing money on frivolous stuff impresses people, when in reality it makes you look like an insecure, pompous, jerk. (This is particularly common among young people who come into money for the first time.) 59. You're unable to realize that a 10% return for 20 years generates more money than a 20% return for 10 years. Time can be a more important factor than return when building wealth -- and it's the one thing you have control over. 60. You don't respect the mountains of evidence showing that once basic needs are met, the amount of happiness each additional dollar of income provides diminishes quickly. This causes you to spend most of your life chasing "the number" you think will make you happy, but probably won't. 61. You think paying your financial advisor and other money managers 2% a year seems reasonable, without realizing that it'll probably eat up one-third or more of your long-term returns. 62. You think of the stock market as numbers that go up and down rather than an ownership stake in real businesses with real assets. 63. You think renting a home is throwing money away when for many it's one of the smartest financial decisions they can make. 64. Your investment decisions are guided by what the economy is doing, when the two really have very little correlation. 65. When planning for retirement, you don't realize that your life expectancy might be 90 years or more. Retire at 65, and you could spend more than one-third of your life living off your investments. 66. You're unable to have a good time going for a hike, a bike ride, a swim, reading a book, or anything else that's free (or cheap). Having cheap hobbies is a large, yet hidden, asset on your personal balance sheet. 67. You work so hard trying to make money that you don't have time to think about, or plan, your finances. This is the equivalent to spending so much time buying exercise equipment that you have no time to exercise. 68. To paraphrase Carl Richards, you ignore history, basing your actions on your own very limited experience. 69. You worry about things you can't control, and things that are not relevant to your own finances. 70. You went to college at age 18 not because you were ready but because everyone else was. It's probably one of the most expense things you'll ever do, and you totally caved to peer pressure. 71. You think that not changing your opinion about markets, the economy, and your investments is somehow noble, when it's really just shutting your brain off to the reality that things are always changing. 72. You ignore that how elderly Americans who have seen it all view money is almost the opposite of how most young Americans view money. This goes back to not learning vicariously. 73. You're uncomfortable with the idea that the biggest news story of the next decade is almost certainly something no one is talking about today, and the big stuff everyone is talking about today is probably meaningless. 74. You underestimate how fast a company can go from "blue chip" to bankrupt. 75. You don't realize that when you say you want to be a millionaire, what you probably mean is that you want to spend a million dollars, which is literally the opposite of being a millionaire. 76. You're unaware that the business models of the vast majority of financial companies rely on exploiting the fears, emotions, and lack of intelligence of its customers. 77. You nodded along to all 77 of these points without realizing I'm talking about you. That goes for me, too. Check back every Tuesday and Thursday for Morgan Housel's columns on finance and economics.  FREE AppDownload
    Curling has become one of the most fascinating events in the Winter Olympics. Team USA member Martin Sather teaches us the fundamentals of the sport, featuring a 45-pound stone sliding on ice, at the Ardsley Curling Club in Irvington, NY. FREE AppDownload
Photo courtesy of Mark AxelowitzMark Axelowitz wearing a 1920s-style suit on the set of "Boardwalk Empire."You may have seen Mark Axelowitz—a managing director at UBS Private Wealth Management—on television before.  We don't mean on CNBC or Bloomberg TV either, even though he's appeared on both financial networks. The 53-year-old Wall Street financial advisor has played roles on hit television shows "Law &amp; Order," "Blue Bloods," and "Boardwalk Empire." He was also in "The Three Stooges" movie (2012). It's a hobby that he accidentally fell into while in his 40s. In 2004, at an event benefiting the Boys &amp; Girls Harbor, an education and performing arts non-profit supported by many in the finance industry, "Law &amp; Order" executive producer Dick Wolf donated a speaking role on the popular television show as an auction item.  Photo courtesy Mark AxelowtizMark Axelowtiz's headshot. That evening, Axelowitz engaged in a bidding war against actor Chevy Chase for the coveted auction item. In the end, the Wall Street financial advisor won the role for $10,000.  For the part, Axelowitz got to play a jury foreman in an episode called "Fixed" (Season 15, episode 11).  He went to Chelsea Piers in Lower Manhattan for a weekend of filming. It was his first time being exposed to the world of television and he was pumped. He got to get his makeup done for the first time, and excitedly told the other actors how he had 19 words to recite.   People on set thought that was funny because "real" actors don't memorize how many words they have. The financial advisor, who is used to giving presentations and speaking publicly because of his job, thought he would cruise through his part. "Because I only had 19 words I did not rehearse my lines much at all before I got onto the set. Because I did public speaking over the years, I did not think I would get nervous," he told Business Insider. He admitted that he was "dead wrong" on that one. When it was time for him to deliver his lines, he stuttered.  "It was a whole different ball game. When you are on set and all the lights, and all the cameras and all of the celebrities are looking at  you, in my case, I got nervous, which is why we had to do a number of takes because I stumbled on one particular word."   Even to this day, he still remembers those 19 words. It was the word "degree" that he couldn't spit out. Judge: "Have you reached a verdict?" Jury Foreman (Axelowitz): "Yes, we have your honor." Judge: "How say you?" Jury Foreman (Axelowitz): "On the charge of murder in the second degree, we the jury find the defendant not guilty." When Axelowitz is on the set of a show, he doesn't advertise that he's a Wall Streeter. Most folks on set assume that he's a working actor.   "I'm not doing it for the money," he explained.  "I do not golf. I do not play tennis. My philanthropic work and my acting are my passions and my hobbies." When he's compensated for acting, he donates it back to charity. For example, for "Law &amp; Order" he would receive checks for $2,000 making a total of $10,000.  All of that money went back to the Boys &amp; Girls Harbor. Other charities have benefited from Axelowitz's hobby as well.  He's on the board of the Boys &amp; Girls Harbor and co-hosts an annual investment conference alongside hedge fund manager Bill Ackman.  He's also been active with popular Wall Street charity the Robin Hood Foundation since 1992. He does giving outside of those as well. Photo courtesy of Mark AxelowitzAxelowitz taking directions while shooting a scene for "The Three Stooges." While on set, he found a common interest with people through his involvement in philanthropy. "What was interesting on the set of Law &amp; Order as a rookie that I was, you don't talk to the stars. Somehow, Sam Waterson and I ended up speaking and I ended up helping him do work on set in his dressing room putting together mailings for this Lutheran Church fundraiser helping him seal envelopes."  Also, on the set, he met a director, Alison Thompson, who had a strong interest in volunteer work. After the 9/11 terrorist attacks Thompson spent months volunteering at Ground Zero. Axelowitz and his family helped support her volunteer efforts in Sri Lanka following the tsunami and in Haiti following the earthquake.   Since Law &amp; Order, he's been on "Blue Bloods" (crime scene detective) and HBO's "Boardwalk Empire" (court reporter). He also played the doctor in "The Three Stooges" movie.  He's now member of the Screen Actors Guild (SAG) thanks to the help of Alison Thompson. He's also been working with acting coaches Gary Swanson, who was a student of legendary acting teacher Lee Strasberg, and Lola Cohen, who teaches at the Lee Strasberg Theatre and Film Institute.    Right now, Axelowitz is in the process of producing a short film with a few of his Hollywood contacts. It's a ten-minute film that has a socially conscious message about the ill-effects of soda on children, he explained. The name of the short is "Can't Beat The Real Thing"— meaning you can't beat natural drinks.  Axelowitz certainly wants to be remembered for his acting in addition to his other roles in life.    "I define myself first as a father of three, a husband of twenty-five years. And then a philanthropist. You don't have to be a billionaire to be a philanthropist ... as long as you give away some of your resources... most importantly your time and your talent.  Third, what I do for my day job as a financial advisor of 27 years. And fourth, as an actor."   "I believe life is very short. It's not a dress rehearsal. I want to try as many things as possible."   Now check out some photos of Axelowitz below:  Photo courtesy of Mark Axelowitz Photo courtesy of Mark Axelowitz  Photo courtesy of Mark Axelowitz Photo courtesy of Mark Axelowitz Photo courtesy of Mark Axelowitz Photo courtesy of Mark Axelowitz Photo courtesy of Mark Axelowitz FREE AppDownload
