REUTERS/Lee Jae-WonA model poses next to LG Electronics' organic light-emitting diode (OLED) television in Seoul January 2, 2013.SEOUL (Reuters) - LG Display Co will consider whether to make additional investments to boost production capacity of plastic OLED displays for smartwatches and smartphones, the company's chief executive said. "We will consider during the second half of this year whether to invest to add an additional production line (for the screens)," LG Display quoted Chief Executive Han Sang-beom as saying at a meeting with local reporters on Wednesday. A source told Reuters last month that the South Korean firm is the exclusive supplier of screens for the initial batch production of Apple Inc's first smartwatch. LG Display declined to comment on the matter.   (Reporting by Se Young Lee; Editing by Stephen Coates) FREE AppDownload
Thanks to one of those bizarre laws that's outlasted its usefulness, Bitcoin has technically been illegal in the state of California since the 1870s. Now, California Gov. Jerry Brown could fix that by signing a single bill, the San Francisco Business Times reports. Assemblyman Roger Dickinson (D-Sacramento) wrote the bill that would legalize not just Bitcoin, but all forms of alternative and digital currency, from cryptocurrencies like Litecoin and Dogecoin to rewards points like Starbucks Stars and Amazon Coins, the San Francisco Business Times reports. The bill stemmed from the state of California filing of a cease-and-desist order against the Bitcoin Foundation in May 2013, Bitcoin Magazine reported. Soon after talk of reform came to the California Legislature and the bill was written and passed. Now all it needs is Brown's signature, according to Coindesk. "I saw this legislation as a ways of cleaning up the code in California to conform to reality," Dickinson told the San Francisco Business Times. Dickinson isn't quite a supporter of Bitcoin, who told the publication he thinks the federal government should regulate the cryptocurrency. Earlier this year New York State started considerations for opening itself up to Bitcoin exchanges, CBS News reports. For California and Silicon Valley to compete with the Empire State legalizing Bitcoin and its fellow digital currencies is certainly the first step. FREE AppDownload
APSamsung Mobile CEO JK Shin with the Galaxy S5.Samsung's CFO warned that the company's earnings for Q2 this year won't be as good as it initially expected, according to the Wall Street Journal. "It doesn't look good," Lee Sang-Hoon, the CFO, told reporters in Korea this week, according to the WSJ report. This has been a theme with Samsung lately. The company is still profitable, but its profit growth is declining. The next earnings report will also reflect the first quarter that Samsung began selling the Galaxy S5, its latest flagship smartphone. Shortly after the launch, Samsung Mobile's CEO JK Shin said the Galaxy S5 was selling at a faster pace than its predecessor, the Galaxy S4. But based on the CFO's comments this week, it sounds like Samsung may not have been able to push enough units to combat that declining profit growth. FREE AppDownload
via YouTubeThis shot was taken with a GoPro camera.Camera company GoPro will hold its IPO Thursday morning. On Wednesday night, the company initially priced its shares at $24. GoPro makes video cameras that can clip on just about anything and record HD video. They're really popular among athletes and and video journalists. GoPro filed for its IPO in May. The company is profitable. It made $61 million in 2013. It's revenue is growing too. It generated $986 million in 2013, up from $526 million in 2012 and $234 million in 2011.   FREE AppDownload
YouTube / 1957AtlasClifford AsnessFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. ASNESS: I Am Still A Net Cynic When It Comes To Stock Picking (Morningstar)  Scott Burns at Morningstar spoke with AQR Capital Management's Cliff Asness on stock picking and said, "I tend to be on the cynical side when it comes to stock-picking. The fewer people who do it, the less cynical I would get." Asness pointed out that there are "two dimension" to active managers, one depends on how much they differ from the index, while the other depends on how often they readjust their portfolio.  "…Active does not have to mean--a topic I'm going to avoid completely today, high-frequency trading. Active can be very different than the market but hold for very long periods, think Warren Buffett. Active can be fairly close to the market, but imagine you had a fairly fast trading strategy that just tried to add a little bit." Despite all the chatter that the popularity of index investing is creating an opportunity for active investors, Asness exercises some caution. The value of the research that stock pickers do will go up he admits. "I've been a long-term cynic, not necessarily that all stock-picking doesn't work,  but to invest with active stock-pickers, you not only have to believe that it works, you have to believe you can figure out who has the skill beforehand," he says. "So I don't think we're necessarily near a world where it's easy pickings by any means. I am still a net cynic. I have to say, if fewer dollars try, it will get easier." Millennials Are Twice As Likely Than Any Other Generation To Expect To Support Their Parents (US Trust)  78% of the 680 high net worth individuals (HNWI) surveyed by US Trust's for its Wealth and Worth report had created their own wealth. It also found that Millennials and those in the 18-32 cohort were more likely to have inherited their wealth than Gen X and baby boomers. Moreover, 25% said they have provided financial support to their parents or in-laws. When it comes to supporting their parents or in-laws 44% of Millennials said they expect to, as compared to 17% across all cohorts. 99% Of Advisory Practices Die Out When The Founder Retires (SEI)  Succession planning is increasingly being seen as a growth strategy since 99% of advisory practices go out of business once the founder retires, according to a new report from FP Transitions and SEI. The paper surveyed 771 financial advisors and found that only 32% said they had a succession plan. "Advisors are beginning to realize that succession plans and continuity plans can actually become growth tools,” John Anderson, head of SEI Practice Management Solutions said in a press release. "By taking the time to plan for the future, advisors are giving themselves a key competitive advantage in the present. The process gives them a clearer picture of their firms' overall health, prioritizes finding a new generation of talent, and sends the message to clients that the firm will be viable for years to come.” How Advisors Can Handle The Top Investment Question From Clients (The Wall Street Journal)  Clients have one investment question they love to ask: "Is now a good time to invest?" writes William Suplee president of Structured Asset Management in a WSJ column. He thinks it is important for advisors to remind clients that they shouldn't try and time the market and to stop them from "obsessing over things that are beyond their control."  "The main thing is for advisers to help clients avoid becoming overly enthusiastic or pessimistic at peaks and troughs of market cycle," he writes. "It's impossible to tell what's going to happen. If an adviser can communicate that to clients it will make them feel more comfortable." Small-Caps Have Lagged Large Cap Stocks But This Could Reverse (AllianceBernstein Blog)  Small-cap stocks have had a rough few months as compared to large-cap stocks. "The underperformance was global in scope, but it appeared to be most extreme in the US," writes Vadim Zlotnikov, chief market strategist in a piece for AllianceBernstein Blog. What caused this? "Differences in the way small-cap and large-cap stock indices are composed had a hand in the recent shortfall for small-caps. …Relative to the S&amp;P 500, the Russell 2000 had a greater concentration of high-beta, low-profitability stocks and financial-sector stocks—neither of which was in favor." Zlotnikov writes that an uptick in mergers and acquisitions could help turn this around, since M&amp;As tend to target smaller companies. Stronger GDP growth and a stronger dollar also bode well for small caps. FREE AppDownload
RealtyTracFollowing the recession, sales of tbe more expensive homes, those in the $200,000-$400,000 price range and higher, tumbled. Meanwhile, sales of homes under $200,000 surged. More recently, this trend appears to be changing. The latest US residential and foreclosure sales report from RealtyTrac has found that more expensive home sales represent a growing share of the market.  "When broken down by average price range, U.S. sales are clearly shifting away from the lower end," Daren Blomquist, vice president at RealtyTrac wrote in a press release.  "Properties selling below $200,000 represented 50 percent of all sales in May, but that was down from a 55 percent share a year ago. Meanwhile, the share of homes selling above $200,000 increased from a 45 percent a year ago to a 50 percent in May 2014." Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macroeconomics has pointed out that the decline in distressed properties, has skewed national average home prices like those generated by the Case-Shiller index. "As foreclosed homes typically sell for much less than regular private sales, a decline in the proportion of foreclosure sales will raise reported prices," he writes. "The correlation between changes in the proportion of foreclosures and the rate of increase of Case-Shiller home prices is not perfect, but it is real." Moreover, rising home prices move more people into positive equity and help support the economy. Take a look: RealtyTrac FREE AppDownload
A three-course lunch hosted by an eccentric Chinese millionaire for 250 homeless New Yorkers in a posh restaurant degenerated into fury Wednesday when guests were denied $300 cash handouts. It had seemed such a good idea. Recycling tycoon Chen Guangbiao last week took out ads in American newspapers promising a first-rate meal at the Boathouse in Central Park and $300 each. Guests were bused in and treated to a sit-down meal of seared tuna, filet mignon and seasonal berries, waited on by staff in suits and bow ties, but anger flared over the cash no-show. As Chen spoke to a gaggle of Chinese journalists while dessert was being served, one guest started shouting. "Don't lie to the people!" Ernest St Pierre told AFP. "We came here for $300 but now he's changed his tune." Chen announced through a translator that he was heading to the New York City Rescue Mission -- which helped organize the lunch -- and invited guests to join him there. "This individual who's filthy rich put it in the paper," St Pierre, a former US Navy medic, told reporters. Retired Vietnam War veteran Harry Brooks told reporters he would be "highly upset" if he didn't get the cash, despite enjoying the food "very much." "I could use $300," he said. "Clothing for one thing," he said gesturing at his shabby attire when asked how he would spend it. Not all guests were unhappy. Many said they enjoyed the food and called the experience "beautiful," saying they were touched that someone had flown all the way from China wanting to help.   - 'Fraud' -   But as they were herded outside to queue up to get the bus back, complaints multiplied. Quin Shabazz, 34, said he felt the homeless had been exploited and branded the lunch -- covered by a mob of TV cameras and reporters -- "a big publicity stunt." Al Johnson, 42, said he had been banking on the money to get his life together and go home to his family in Texas. "This was going to change my life," he said. "Fraud. This is fraud with a capital F," he added. "I feel used for a photo op." Craig Mayes, executive director of the New York City Rescue Mission, was left to deny there had been any injustice. "I'm really sorry. It was misrepresented in the paper," he said. Michelle Tolson, director of public relations at the Mission, said Tuesday that no cash would be handed out to individuals and that it had taken 1.5 months of negotiations to convince Chen to instead donate $90,000 to the group. The money would be ploughed straight into the Mission's $5 million yearly expenses to feed and house people, she said. The shelter provides people with a hot meal, a clean shower and a safe bed, clothing and assistance in addressing their problems. Chen, known for publicity stunts and reportedly worth an estimated $825 million, serenaded his guests with a rendition of the 1985 charity single "We Are the World." The smiling, bespectacled businessman said he wanted to give back after wealthy Americans had contributed to relief efforts after disasters in China. "Hopefully, I will really lead the way to encourage other people who are in a position to help to follow through," he said. Coalition for the Homeless says around 60,000 homeless men, women and children bed down in New York's shelters and thousands more who sleep rough on the streets or elsewhere. The number of homeless New Yorkers has risen by 75 percent since 2002 and in recent years has reached the highest levels since the Great Depression of the 1930s, according to the advocacy group. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Green Car ReportsDETROIT (Reuters) - General Motors Co &lt;GM.N&gt; on Wednesday said that it has told its North American dealers to stop selling new and used Chevrolet Cruze sedans from model years 2013 and 2014 because of a potential problem with the airbags. The biggest U.S. automaker has not at this point recalled the cars in consumer hands, and is investigating how many vehicles have a faulty part for the airbags in the sedans, said a GM spokesman. GM said it does not yet know whether there have been any crashes, injuries or deaths related to this issue.     (Reporting by Bernie Woodall; Editing by Chris Reese) FREE AppDownload
YouTube/MITNewsOfficeDespite record student debt, the benefits of a college degree still outweigh the costs, according to a new report from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. But the real message to students — especially if you are borrowing is: stay in school. The study, published by Jaison Abel and Richard Deitz, found that the return on a college degree has remained at 15%. (As a point of comparison, Abel and Deitz note that since 1950, investing in stocks or bonds have yielded annual returns of 7% and 3%, respectively.) And though college graduates now make less on an inflation-adjusted basis than they did a decade ago, wages have fallen for all workers regardless of their level of education. In short, you get about as much of a leg up, wage wise, now as you did a decade ago. Federal Reserve Bank of New York Federal Reserve Bank of New YorkAbel and Deitz also find that "net tuition," which they compute as the "sticker price" of attending college minus the aid students receive that doesn't need to be paid back, isn't rising as quickly as gross tuition numbers suggest. They find that the while "sticker price" of a bachelor's degree has increased from $4,600 per year in the 1970s to about $15,000 in 2013, "net tuition" rose from $2,300 a year in 1970 to about $6,500 per year in 2013. Federal Reserve Bank of New YorkAbel and Deitz, however, note that their findings pertain only to students who finish college. They write: "Significantly, our rate of return estimates pertain to those who complete a college degree; the estimates do not account for the risks associated with not completing the degree and dropping out of college. Indeed, while college dropouts incur at least some of the costs associated with going to college, they enjoy far fewer benefits." This message is an often overlooked part of the debate about student loan debt and the effects it will have on our economy going forward.  In addition the Fed's report, yesterday The New York Times discussed a recent study by the Brookings Institute that found debt burdens from student loans have not risen sharply. Among Brookings' findings were that the mean — or simple average — of student debt held has increased over the last decade; however, the median — or midpoint — of all debt held actually decreased from 2007-2010. In other words, there are more outliers taking on massive amounts of debt, but not enough to lift the average Brookings InstituteThe Times' piece caused a bit of a kerfuffle on the internet. Brookings fellow Matthew Chingos, one of the authors of the Brookings study, told The Times' David Leonhardt, "We are certainly not arguing that the state of the American economy and the higher education system is just great. But we do think that the data undermine the prevailing sky-is-falling-type narrative around student debt." Leonhardt also noted the problem with dropping out of college after taking out loans, writing that, "The vastly bigger problem is the hundreds of thousands of people who emerge from college with a modest amount of debt yet no degree. For them, college is akin to a house that they had to make the down payment on but can't live in." There is no denying that there are lots of students taking on lots of debt to attend college. But where some see a growing burden that will hamper the economy long-term, others see a clear message that college is still a sound investment. At the very least, finish your degree. FREE AppDownload
Julia La Roche for Business InsiderGuangbiao giving out $100 bills to New York City's homeless.  Multimillionaire Chen Guangbiao, the self-proclaimed "most influential person of China," held a massive event in New York City on Wednesday during which he handed out $100 bills to 200 homeless people at the Loeb Boathouse in Central Park.  "He's the man! He's the man!" one man shouted, throwing his arm around Guangbiao and waving the three $100 bills in the air. "I wish and hope that you will put the money into good use," Guangbiao said in remarks delivered through a translator. "I hope that you will use this money as seed money for whatever job training or job education you will receive so that you can help yourself," he said. Guangbiao, 46, then told the crowd that he would like to do this every year. They began to cheer and whistle.  Julia La Roche for Business InsiderThe meal Guangbiao had served for his guests. Along with the cash, Guangbiao's homeless guests were treated to a lunch of seared sesame-crusted tuna with an Asian slaw and steak with mashed potatoes and green beans by a white-gloved waitstaff. "They're not feeding the press?" one of the many members of the media in attendance quipped beforehand.  Guangbiao began his New York City adventure Tuesday when he strolled through the streets of Tribeca with a photographer and reporter from the New York Post, attempting to hand out $100 bills to passersby. That effort didn't exactly go as planned as many of the New Yorkers Guangbiao tried to hand money to ignore his entreaties.  The lunch also didn't go off without a hitch. According to the event's invitation, the lunch was for 300 "poverty-stricken people." But only 200 people from the New York City Rescue Mission were able to attend.  At least 100 other homeless community members were left outside the event.  Julia CannonHomeless people waiting outside the lunch.Duwell, one of the men who found himself barred from the luncheon, called the event "the worst fraud [he] has ever seen perpetrated against the homeless community." "I am handicapped, and I have been waiting here for 10 and a half hours," he said. "I have been chased by the police and treated with disrespect after we were promised a gourmet meal and $300. This is a publicity stunt." Another woman, Tammy, claimed she waited three hours and said she "was going to stay as long as [she] had to, to get her good meal."  Tammy questioned the method used to invite people to the event.  "Why would you send an invitation by email to homeless people? If I had a computer, I would have a home!" Tammy never made it inside. Julia CannonChinese Communist Party supporters outside the lunch.An Anti-Chinese Communist Party group also gathered in protest outside the venue, repeating a chant of "Chinese Communist Party is evil! Chinese Communist Party is terrible!" throughout the day.  The Anti-CCP presence was not surprising, though, since CCP supporters clad in military fatigues turned out in huge numbers to volunteer for the event.  Despite the controversy, Guangbiao seemed to remain confident in his philanthropic efforts. Julia La Roche for Business InsiderGuangbiao's DVD."I have helped millions of people and would like to encourage the press to interview the people who actually received help from me today — instead of listening to those people who might be jealous who might have a lot of negative things to say about what I have to offer," Guangbiao said at the lunch.  The reason why folks were left out wasn't exactly clear.  Guangbiao is a recycling magnate with a reported wealth of $740 million. He is infamously eccentric and, according to Reuters, "something of a celebrity in China." One of Guangbiao's trademarks is singing the song "We Are The World." He mentioned the song repeatedly during the lunch. He also performed some magic tricks for the crowd.  Julia La Roche for Business InsiderGuangbiao performing magic.On his business card, Guangbiao describes himself as the "Most Influential Person of China, Most Prominent Philanthropist of China, China Moral Leader, China Earthquake Rescue Hero, Most Well-known and Beloved Chinese Role Model, Most Charismatic Philanthropist of China," among many other self-proclaimed accolades. During the Central Park event, a DVD played in the background that constantly referred to Guangbiao as "the No. 1" this and "the No. 1" that in China. We eventually lost count. Guangbiao is one of the 400 richest people in China. At the event, he explained his rationale for giving cash away. "Some people [say] that money is almost like human waste — you don't come to this earth with it and you cannot carry it to your next life."  Here's Guangbiao's rendition of "We Are The World":  And here's the event's invitation:  Chen Guangbio  View some more photos from the event below. Julia LaRocheHomeless people sitting down to eat at Guangbiao's event.  Julia LaRocheChen Guangbiao handing out cash.  Julia LaRocheChen Guangbiao with one of his lunch guests. FREE AppDownload
If there's one thing I've learned over the past couple years, it's that migration patterns are the building blocks of cities.  People, and the things that attract them to the city, shape the city form and future.  People, and the things that repel them from the city, shape the city form and future, too.  Urbanists owe it to themselves to understand earlier migration forces and their impacts, so we can understand the context of current transitions.  A recent deep dive I did into scholarly research on the relationship of the African-American Great Migration, white flight and the subsequent impact on central cities gives a great sense of where cities have been and where they're headed in the near future.UCLA economics professor Leah Platt Boustan has quickly become a favorite of mine, and I cannot figure out why her research has not become more well-known within the urbanist community.  She's done some excellent research over the last ten years on the Great Migration of blacks from the rural South to Northern cities that started after World War I and continued through the 1960's, and also the mass migration from Europe that preceded it in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries.  Her studies include some interesting findings that are worthy of discussion.  Here's the abstract from a2007 paper she did on the Great Migration: Emphasis added.  Boustan is clear that many factors were involved in the making of this correlation.  Wealth created by improved economic productivity, particularly after World War II, gave many white residents the resources to seek new housing in suburban locales.  The growth and expansion of the Interstate highway system helped to facilitate that.  The G.I. Bill offered incentives for veterans to purchase homes, and mortgage finance reforms established during the New Deal firmly took root after the War.  But two things were evident when looking at the correlation -- 1) once the Great Migration started in 1915, white outflow from Northern central cities always exceeded black inflow, over the next 90 years; and 2) because of things like racial covenants and restrictive zoning policies, blacks were not able to make the suburban move until much later.Boustan followed that paper with a 2013 analysis done with Boston University economics professor Robert A. Margo entitled A Silver Lining to White Flight? White Suburbanization and African-American Homeownership, 1940-1980.  In this paper they demonstrate that rising black homeownership over the 40-year period was facilitated by white suburbanization, further finding that suburban expansion lowered central city housing demand and prices and opened the housing market to blacks.  The study found that the rapid acceleration of black homeownership (from 15 percent to 42 percent of black households over that time, the vast majority of which was in central cities) was confined to that era for three reasons: While Boustan and Margo document that black homeownership increased dramatically over the 40-year period, it's also clear that the manner in which blacks obtained homes -- a greatly increased central city housing supply that created lower priced central city homes, devalued due to the rapid expansion of the suburbs -- meant less equity for black homeowners, and less transferable wealth overall, compared to suburbanites. Illinois Wesleyan University student Lindsey Haines picked up on the migration story by documenting the impacts of the extension of white flight in suburban areas.  Her 2010 paper documented white flight in suburban Cook County outside of Chicago, and illustrates that the process noted by Boustan and Margo is still going on today: I admit that these papers do not represent the definitive thinking on American cities and migration patterns.  There are critiques and counterarguments to their points, and simply different perspectives on city and metro area evolution.  If there are strong critiques or counters to the analysis cited above, I'll be on the search to find them.  I'm always seeking new knowledge.  Furthermore, I have to be careful to guard against confirmation bias.  Simply finding the analysis to support your own claims can close one off from important research.However, I have to admit that the analysis from these papers align well with my personal experience in Rust Belt cities, and the experience of many I know.  When my parents purchased the house at the top of the last post here in 1968, there were several white families still on the block and in the neighborhood.  All were gone by 1970.  Twenty years later, when my parents purchased another home in the Chicago south suburb of South Holland, the block was evenly divided between white and black residents.  Within four years it was all black.  Perhaps the pace of change has slowed, but the process is still quite evident.I'd add a couple of factors that might have fueled the changes described above over the last 35 years.  First, the late '80s/early '90s crime wave that was a product of the crack epidemic led to more middle-class blacks leaving for the suburbs, increasing central city poverty rates and ultimately leading to an end to overall increasing black homeownership rates.  Second, at just about the same time, the first wave of urban pioneers began moving into cities, generally into the last remaining bastions of relatively safe urbanity that Northern cities had to offer.  If a city had many such areas, like New York, the wave accelerates; if a city had few or none, like Detroit or Cleveland, the wave never starts, or only barely takes hold.  The roots of today's bifurcated city were formed since 1980, and the trends that created them are dominant today.Given this history, I think one can extrapolate a plausible future for our metro areas.  The pendulum has begun to swing in the direction of central cities.  While I don't subscribe to the thinking that the shift of people, and ultimately jobs, to central cities will correspond to a total collapse of the suburbs, it does mean that there will be greater parity between the two, and it will appear that cities are substantially wealthier while suburbs are substantially poorer.  And one of the things that will fuel this perception is the accelerated growth of minorities, including African-Americans, into suburban areas.Just like the rapid increase in black homeownership in the mid to late twentieth century, which was once thought to usher in a new era of economic parity for blacks, this new shift will prove illusory.  Blacks will move into suburban areas.  Housing demand will decline in suburban areas.  Available housing supply will increase in suburban areas.  Housing prices will fall in suburban areas, making them more affordable to more people at the lower end of the homebuying spectrum.  Conversely, the opposite will happen -- is happening now -- in cities.  Demand is rising.  Available supply is shrinking.  Prices are rising, making them less affordable to more people at the higher end of the homebuying spectrum.When that transition is complete, who wins, the city or suburban homeowner? This article originally appeared at The Corner Side Yard.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Brilliant TransportationRichard Fertig managed a portfolio of hedge fund investments worth $4 billion until he lost his job in January 2009, another casualty of the Great Recession. Fertig interviewed for jobs left and right but found finance jobs hard to come by. Looking back at his life and travels as a hedge fund manager, Fertig realized that many of his best experiences were dampened by low-quality ground transportation. At the same time, he believed others who still worked in his former occupation experienced those same inconveniences.  So Fertig, a Wharton graduate, abandoned the finance industry and established Brilliant Transportation, a luxury transport service that offers wealthy clients the comforts of a high-end hotel room, the functionality of an office, the space of a private jet, and the service of a private concierge. Brilliant TransportationHe began by acquiring a fleet of Mercedes-Benz Sprinter vans through loans and his personal savings. Fertig was drawn to the Sprinter because it allowed even the tallest people to stand upright. He stripped the Sprinter vans of their stock interiors and refurbished them with luxury fixtures like hardwood floors, captain's chairs, and retractable work stations. Brilliant's fleet of luxury vans, which rent for $225 an hour, are equipped with wifi, satellite television, and other features meant to recreate the functionality of an office. Fertig believes his vans can create tremendous value for corporate clients, because time spent in transit can be used productively. As a result, he now services many of the same financial industry titans that he once worked for and with. Brilliant TransportationBrilliant doesn't compete with black car services or Uber-like apps for local rides or airport transports, Fertig says. Instead, he sees his company as a competitor for private jet and helicopter services, often ferrying clients between New York City and the Hamptons, and around Los Angeles. Rather than a disjointed stop-and-go private jet experience, clients are picked up with the custom catering orders waiting in the van. They can then to do work, relax, and watch some television on the way to their destination. The company has around 30 vehicles and offers its services in New York City, the Hamptons, Connecticut, Los Angeles, and Las Vegas, and will soon launch in Miami.Brilliant TransportationIts clients include at least half a dozen billionaires, as well as celebrities and major corporations. Fertig's vans provided the transportation for the wedding of Dylan Lauren, daughter of designer Ralph Lauren. With such discerning clients, employee training is one of Fertig's toughest tasks. "Every driver drives me and my family around first before they are allowed to drive a client," he said. Brilliant Transportation FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsIf we, like cartoon characters, had four fingers on each hand, it might have had a surprising effect on how we look at the world. Our number system is a decimal system, or base ten system, meaning it's built powers of ten. Numbers less than ten are represented by one of ten digits, numbers from ten to a hundred (which equals 10 × 10) have two digits, numbers from a hundred to a thousand (again, 10 × 10 × 10) have three digits, and so on. Most number systems around the world use base ten, the origin of this system is likely based on hand counting: most people have ten fingers, and so we have ten digits. Aside from the number of fingers belonging to the median human, there's nothing particularly special about ten. We can use any whole number larger than one as a base, and get a perfectly good number system. Suppose we lived in a world in which humans evolved to generally have four fingers on each hand, instead of five. It's pretty likely that we would have adopted an octal, or base eight, system, using powers of eight instead of powers of ten. In octal, we have eight digits — 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7 — and now place values are based on powers of eight. The octal number 10 represents the number 8 in decimal. The octal 100 represents 8 × 8, or 64. 1000 is 8 × 8 × 8, or 512. One dollar in base ten would convert over to $1.44 in base eight, and $0.84 in base twelve. Conversely, what we'd call a dollar in our world with eight fingers — $1.00 in base eight — would translate to just $0.64 in our base ten world. The median annual wage in the U.S. in 2013 was $35,080. If we had eight fingers, this would be written as $104,480. The world population right now is about 7.2 billion people. In base 8 world, this would be written out as about 66,000,000,000 or 66 "billion", that is, 66 times eight raised to the ninth power, just as a billion in our system is ten raised to the ninth power.  The year 2014 in our world changes to 3736 in base 8, since the equivalent of a century has 64 years, and the equivalent of a millennium just 512. The base eight year 3000 happened in our base ten year of 1536, and octal world's next millennium at the year 4000 will be coming up in our year 2048. Using octal would also have changed our measurements of different milestones, since base eight world's big round numbers are very different from our big round numbers. For example, at the moment the DJIA is hovering within a couple hundred points of hitting 17,000 for the first time, and the S&amp;P 500 is not too far away from 2,000. However, in octal world, traders would have been celebrating a late Christmas present, with the octal DJIA closing at 40,000 for the first time on the day after Christmas 2013. The octal number 40,000 corresponds to a decimal number of 16,384, and the DJIA closed at 16479.88 on December 26. The population of New York City, according to the 2010 census, was 8,175,133. In base eight world, we'd write this as 37,137,035. The city would have hit the big octal milestone of 30,000,000 (6,291,456 in decimal) sometime in the late 1920s: based on the 1930 census, the city had (in decimal) 6,930,446 people.  In 2010, the four largest U.S. cities — New York, Los Angeles, Chicago, and Houston — all would have had populations above the big octal threshold of 10,000,000, or 2,097,152 in decimal. While speculating what big numbers would look like in a world where we had four fingers on each hand is a little silly, alternate base systems, including octal, are actually pretty important. Computers are built around binary, or base two. This means that information read or processed by computers consists of long chains of zeros and ones. Sometimes computer scientists and engineers need to analyze machine code at this very low level, but it's nearly impossible for humans to make sense of these giant piles of zeros and ones. The binary nature of computers leads to the at first glance strange numbers associated with them. Processors and operating systems are 32 bit or 64 bit since these are powers of two: 32 is 25, or five 2's multiplied together, and 64 is 26. Flash drives come in sizes of 256 megabytes or 512 megabytes because these are also powers of two: 256 is 28 and 512 is 29. Since binary is hard for humans to directly read, computer scientists and engineers often look at raw computer code represented in base eight octal, or its cousin base sixteen hexadecimal. Since eight and sixteen are powers of two (8 = 2 × 2 × 2, and 16 = 2 × 2 × 2 × 2), blocks of binary code are nicely translatable into these bases. Any group of three binary digits, or bits, corresponds with an octal digit. The binary 010 translates into 2, and 110 translates into 6. Similarly, any group of four bits translates into a hexadecimal digit: 0011 becomes a 3, and 1010 becomes 10, which is usually represented in hexadecimal as a capital A. So, a long unreadable binary string, like 1101 0010 0101 1001, can get turned into the more easily read, if you know your computer codes, hexadecimal chain D 2 5 9. FREE AppDownload
REUTERSStocks were higher despite this morning's third revision to first quarter GDP, which showed the economy contracted by 2.9% compared to the BEA's prior estimate of -1.0% First, the scoreboard And now, the top stories of the day: Don't Miss: No, The White House Did Not Just End The Crude Oil Export Ban » FREE AppDownload
Julia La Roche for Business InsiderReuters is reporting that billionaire hedge fund manager John Paulson has bought 6 million shares of Allergan, or about a 2% stake.  They're also reporting that Paulson supports an Allergan/Valeant deal. Paulson, who is a closely-followed fund manager, could be a big ally for Bill Ackman. Back in April, Ackman, the activist investor who runs $12 billion Pershing Square Capital Management, teamed up with Valeant Pharmaceuticals to pursue a hostile takeover of Allergan, the maker of Botox. So far, Allergan has rejected Pershing Square's/Valeant's cash-and-stock bids for the company.  Following the Paulson news, shares of of Valeant were last trading up about 4.5% and shares of Allergan were last up about 3%.  Pershing Square owns 28,878,538 shares of Allergan, or about a 10% stake in the company. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Cheryl RaveloA street vendor who set himself on fire after having his fruit cart confiscated, triggered widespread protests in Tunisia and spurred the Arab Spring.  "A surge in the prices of garlic and other staple food commodities in Tunisia was a leading indicator of the approaching revolution now known as the Arab Spring," writes Colin Fenton in a report for JP Morgan.  Now, Fenton points out that garlic prices are surging again. Garlic prices are 75% higher now than their average price over the past five years, and hit 295 Philippine Peso per kilogram. From JP Morgan: JP Morgan "Is this humble vegetable already giving us a leading indicator of the return of volatility in global markets? Of the non-US inflationary consequences of zero interest rate policy?" he writes. "Even if its message proves more limited, garlic’s strong price advance is pressuring Philippine food budgets. It is revealing latent food insecurity in Southeast Asia. Seventeen days ago, the Philippine government began daily monitoring of retail garlic transactions in 13 public markets in Metro Manila. "Data from Google Trends confirms the local population is very focused on this issue. Yet, most of the world is not. Not even China—the largest producer and exporter of garlic," writes Fenton. Here's a chart from Google Trends showing the rising interest in garlic in Philippines (blue) as compared to China (red) — the world's largest garlic producer and exporter. Google Trends/Business Insider And look at the sharp recent uptick in the search for "garlic price": Google Trends In emerging markets where food has a significant weightage in the CPI basket, the rise in the price of certain vegetables can destabilize local markets and could even trigger volatility in broader asset classes.  We've seen this with onions in India and food prices in general with the Arab Spring. For Wall Street which has been bored to death by a lack of volatility, this could be something to keep an eye on. FREE AppDownload
Mario Anzuoni/ReutersCostco has been a remarkably successful player in discount retail over the last several years, and the company has outgrown competitors such as Wal-Mart and Target by a considerable margin. But investing is about the future, not the rearview mirror, so investors need to analyze if the company can continue outperforming on a forward-looking basis. Interestingly, there are some reasons to believe Costco should continue getting stronger over time. The Motley Fool Outperforming the competitionWhen comparing Costco versus other mass-merchant retailers such as Wal-Mart and Target, the difference can be truly remarkable. Costco has done much better than both Wal-Mart and Target over the years, and the trend is still as strong as ever judging by recent financial reports. Costco has recently announced sales of $8.78 billion for the month of May, an increase of 8% versus $8.13 billion during the similar four-week period last year. Comparable sales excluding the impact of gasoline prices and exchange rate fluctuations increased by 6% in the U.S., and by 7% in international markets, for a total increase at the company level of 6%. Wal-Mart does not report monthly sales data, but the company announced some really uninspiring performance numbers in its earnings report for the quarter ended on May 2. Comparable-store sales excluding fuel declined by 0.2% on the total company level in the U.S. While comparable sales at Wal-Mart stores in the U.S. were almost flat with a decline of 0.1%, performance was worse at Sam's Club, where comparable-store sales excluding fuel fell 0.5% during the period. Target is still being hurt by the data breach that affected the company in December, and performance for the quarter ended on May 3 was quite weak. Total sales in the U.S. increased by a lackluster 0.2% to $16.7 billion, while comparable-store sales in the country declined 0.3% during the quarter. A unique businessCostco makes most of its profit from membership fees, as opposed to profit margins on product sales. This means Costco can sell its products at cost, or sometimes even at a loss, which allows the company to charge amazingly low prices, a key competitive advantage in the discount retail sector, where price competitiveness is a central factor for success. While Wal-Mart and Target charge gross profit margins in the area of 25% and 30% of sales, respectively, Costco sells its products for a materially lower gross margin in the neighborhood of 12.5%. Superior customer service is another differentiating factor for Costco. The company has a ranking of 84 in the American Customer Satisfaction Index, the highest one in its industry group, and materially better than the score of 80 assigned to Wal-Mart's Sam's Club. Customer loyalty is a central variable to consider in such a competitive industry like discount retail, and Costco consistently generates renewal rates above 85%. Numbers for the last quarter were strong as usual, with a global renewal rate of 87.3%, while big markets like the U.S. and Canada were even better, with a renewal rate of 90.6% during the period. Getting stronger over timeCostco is not only an extraordinary player in the retail industry, the company gains competitive strengths as it becomes bigger over time, especially when it comes to cost leadership. A bigger company means an increased ability to offer competitively low prices, and this allows Costco to continue gaining market share versus the competition and attract more members. As the company grows in size, it gains purchasing power with suppliers, which allows Costco to negotiate better prices and more favorable payment conditions for its products. Besides, economies of scale and supply-chain efficiencies generate additional cost savings as sales volume expands. Selling more products allows the company to spread fixed costs into more units, hence reducing the impact of fixed costs per unit. The more successful Costco is on the commercial side of the business, the more volume it moves, and the larger the savings it can pass on to customers. This produces a self-sustaining virtuous cycle by which a Costco membership becomes more valuable as the company grows over time. A bigger Costco means a better Costco, so the company is in a great position to continue outgrowing competitors and generating substantial returns for shareholders in the years ahead. Foolish takeawayCostco is materially outperforming competitors such as Wal-Mart and Target thanks to its differentiated business model that allows it to charge competitive low prices for its products. Importantly, Costco should continue gaining cost advantages as it grows, and this will make the membership increasingly more valuable. Like a good wine, Costco is getting better over time. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Toby MelvilleA logo hangs outside a branch of a Barclays bank in London.NEW YORK (Reuters) - The New York Attorney General is set to file a securities fraud lawsuit against Barclays PLC &lt;BARC.L&gt; for misrepresenting the safety of its U.S.-based alternative trading system, or "dark pool," to investors, according to a source. The lawsuit, which the Attorney General will announce at 4 p.m. (2000 GMT) on Wednesday, alleges that Barclays operates its dark pool to favor high-frequency traders and has actively sought to attract them by giving them systematic advantages over others trading in the pool, the source said.  Barclays declined to comment.   (Reporting by John McCrank, Karen Freifeld, and Herb Lash; Editing by Marguerita Choy) FREE AppDownload
Radegast Hall & BiergartenRadegast Hall & Biergarten is a traditional German Hofbrauhaus in the middle of Williamsburg.In the last few years, Brooklyn has become Manhattan's cooler, younger brother. New shops and restaurants are popping up every day, celebrities are moving there, and some of the best bars in all of New York City appear in Brooklyn's numerous and diverse neighborhoods. On June 25, Esquire Network premiered its new show, "Best Bars in America." The TV show will look at the best bars around the U.S., including a number of hip hangouts here in Brooklyn. Equire shared its picks for the best bars in Brooklyn, curated by Esquire's cocktails expert and author David Wondrich, who is featured in the new show. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike SegarSen. Marco Rubio (R-FL), who is regarded as one of the top potential Republican presidential candidates in 2016, delivered a major speech Wednesday afternoon outlining his economic policies at Hillsdale College in Washington D.C. He framed his platform as an effort to stop the "erosion of the American Dream" through "modern conservative reforms."  Rubio began by discussing how he felt "privileged" despite a rather humble upbringing. "I was privileged to be raised in a stable family. Privileged that my parents had jobs that allowed them to provide for their children. And I was privileged to be born in a land of equal opportunity, the one place on earth where the son of a bartender and maid could achieve the same things as a son of a president or a millionaire," Rubio said, according to a prepared version of his speech distributed by his office. "The American Dream is still attainable. But it has gotten increasingly difficult to achieve for far too many. Wages have stagnated; everyday costs have risen; industries that once flourished have dried up, their jobs shipped overseas or lost to automation; and millions go to sleep each night overcome with the sense that they are one bad break from financial ruin." Rubio identified "three sets of Americans" that he said are having a particularly difficult time getting by; "single mothers," "recent college graduates," and "working class families." He attributed much of the blame for these economic woes to the federal government's failure to confront the "rapid and disruptive transformation of our economy driven by automation and globalization." "Instead of adjusting to the realities of this new era, many of our institutions are failing us – and none more so than our federal government," Rubio declared.   He went on to outline the main ways in which he believes the government fell short of confronting economic challenges.  "Instead of attracting jobs to our shores through simplifying taxes and regulations, it imposes higher taxes and more regulations that push investment and innovation to other countries. Instead of anti-poverty programs that promote work and education so our people can emerge from poverty, we pump more money into programs that have failed us for a half century," said Rubio. "Instead of taking steps to make higher education more available and more affordable, we pour resources into a system that is expensive, inaccessible and is graduating too many people with unemployable degrees. And instead of modernizing our retirement programs to make them accessible to everyone, we put more money into unsustainable programs that were designed in the 1930s." According to Rubio, this situation has caused "a growing number of people" to "feel completely alienated from our government and its leaders." "They feel as if no one here in Washington understands what they are facing and no one here has answers to their challenges," he said.  Rubio also specifically criticized President Barack Obama's economic policy proposals.  "President Obama deserves credit for hosting a summit earlier this week focused on helping working families. But the ideas he offered are more symbolic than they are substantive. They do not go far enough," said Rubio. "Up to this point, his plan to restore the American Dream has been an old and familiar one: raise taxes, create more regulations, pour more money into government programs, and accuse anyone who doesn’t agree with him of not caring." Rubio then proceeded to tell the stories of several specific individuals who belonged to each of these categories while detailing the policies he believed would improve their fortunes. He described this platform as "a new policy agenda designed specifically for the 21st century" and "a limited government and free enterprise movement that applies the principles of our founding to the challenges and opportunities facing Americans in their daily lives." For single mothers, Rubio outlined four major proposals. He argued "replacing the flawed earned income tax credit with a wage enhancement credit" would help "boost" wages for people who are struggling. Secondly, he highlighted his efforts to establish "a new, independent accrediting process" for colleges as an initiative that would make higher education more accessible. Under the current system, Rubio claimed "established institutions control the accrediting process" and "the entrenched higher education cartel has the power to block out innovative, lower-cost competitors." Rubio also argued parents who are full-time students should be allowed to remain eligible for the childcare tax credit. Lastly, Rubio pointed to a series of "pro-family tax reforms" he proposed along with Sen. Mike Lee (R-UT) that he said would raise per-child tax credits and allow working parents to receive payments for the amount of money that wasn't saved as a result of their reduction in liability through these credits. Rubio moved on to recent graduates next and pointed to three policies he said would help graduates deal with student debt. Firstly, Rubio cited a bill he backed with Sen. Ron Wyden (D-OR) that would "require schools to tell prospective students how much their graduates earn with a given degree." He also noted his support for establishing a student loan repayment system based on income that he said would remove "the risk of default." Finally, Rubio cited "an alternative to student loans" he has proposed called "Student Investment Plans." "Students would be able to enter into an agreement with a private firm in which the firm pays for the student’s education in return for a percentage of their salary for a set number of years after graduation," Rubio explained. Rubio concluded by expressing his belief the "American Dream" could survive if the country adopts his approaches to economic policy. "The great cause of our time is to reclaim the American Dream for more of our people than ever before. And in doing so leave for our children what our parents left for us: the single greatest nation the world has ever known," said Rubio. FREE AppDownload
Business InsiderMove over, millennials. Marketers are beginning to target a new crop of young people who are rapidly growing in number and influence: Generation Z.  Studies differ on the exact age range of Generation Z, but most agree they were born after 1990, which makes them the largest generational group in the U.S.  We set out to discover who they are and what they eat and buy. Here's what we found: Gen Z wants to change the world. 60% of them want to have an impact on the world, compared to 39% of millennials, according to a study by Sparks &amp; Honey, a New York-based marketing agency. Roughly one in four Generation Z-ers are involved in volunteering. Advanced college degrees are less important to them. 64% of Gen Z-ers are considering an advanced college degree, compared to 71% of millennials.  They are more entrepreneurial than millennials. 72% of high school students want to start a business someday and 61% would rather be an entrepreneur than an employee when they graduate college, according to a study by Millennial Branding, a consulting firm, and Internships.com.  They are digitally over-connected. Gen Z-ers multitask across at least five screens daily and spend 41% of their time outside of school with computers or mobile devices, compared to 22% 10 years ago, according to the Sparks &amp; Honey report. "They suffer from FOMO (fear of missing out) more than millennials, so being culturally connected is critical," researchers wrote. But they prefer to work independently. "This generation is very individualized," Dan Schawbel, the founder of Millennial Branding, told Business Insider. "While millennials seek mentors, Generation Z is more about helping themselves." They worry about the economy more than anything else, including crime, politics, their parents' job security, politics, or the cost of goods. This chart details some of their interests:    Sparks & Honey They prefer home-cooked foods over processed, ready-to-eat meals such as cold cereal, according to a study by The NPD Group. They aren't big fans of microwaves and would rather use a stove top or oven to prepare meals. Salad consumption is expected to increase the most among Gen Z-ers over the next five years, followed by sandwiches and breakfast foods that require some cooking, such as eggs and pancakes. Gen Z-ers spend more money on food and drinks than anything else, and their favorite eatery is Starbucks, according to Piper Jaffray's most recent semiannual survey of teens. Nike is their top clothing brand, followed by Forever 21, Action Sports Brands, American Eagle, and Polo Ralph Lauren. They are less active. 66% of kids ages six to 11 say online gaming is their main source of entertainment, according to the Sparks &amp; Honey report. On a related note, teen obesity has tripled between 1971 and 2010. They lack brand loyalty. "The products themselves are more important to Generation Z than the brands that produce them, and these consumers will change brands easily in search of higher quality," according to Arkansas-based marketing agency Martin-Wilbourne Partners. Gen Z-ers are close with their families. "Their parents have a lot of control over the decisions that they make," Schawbel said. "Their influence is huge and plays into every aspect of their lives." Many of them are also living in multi-generational homes, as Baby Boomers age and move in with their kids. They communicate with speed and often use emoticons and emojis instead of words. "They are accustomed to rapid-fire banter and commentary," Sparks &amp; Honey analysts wrote. "As a result, Gen Z are not precise communicators and leave a lot of room for interpretation." Here's what Sparks &amp; Honey recommends to effectively communicate with a Gen Z-er: Sparks & Honey Sparks & Honey FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Larry Downing Former Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner was one of the more controversial figures of both the financial crisis, and the subsequent first years of the Obama administration, having been perceived as too close to Wall Street. Many also said he failed to do enough to provide relief to homeowners hit by the crash. In his new book "Stress Test", Geithner addresses all these issues. He makes a compelling case that the first accusation was definitely not true, and that Treasury did all it reasonably could to address the latter the situation. The main lesson Geithner teaches provides is the nature of decision making in Washington — which will leave you even more depressed about how things get done there. With that in mind, here are the nine related things we learned in our reading. The principal criticism of Geithner during his term at Treasury was that he was too close to the banks. Many pointed to his term as head of the New York Fed. But some would point to a non-existent stint at Goldman Sachs as the most firm evidence.  In fact, Geithner has only spent a few years of his entire career in the private sector, and they were right at the beginning of his career: As an Asia specialist at Henry Kissinger's consulting firm. This was followed by getting asked by Larry Summers to come on as a Treasury functionary, then a stint at the IMF, then the New York Fed, and finally back to Treasury.  Geithner says the idea of an eight-figure salary never inspired him, and that he preferred the career of a problem solver. He asserts he found much of what Wall Street did before and during the crisis, like AIG's decision to pay out bonuses, totally amoral. But he remains furious at the accusations of conflicts of interest.  "I was sick of the insinuations, so prevalent in Washington, that any advocates of using emergency authorities to quell the panic must be acting at the behest of big banks," he writes. "The stability of the entire banking system was at risk. The economy was already hurting badly."  Geithner is effusive with praising his team both at the New York Fed and at Treasury. There are a few people in particular who he says were indispensable: Current: Senior Vice President and Director of the Office of Financial Stability &amp; Regulatory Policy at the New York Fed. Anecdote: "Meg has a feel for the dark side of any situation." Current: Senior Managing Director, Centerbridge Partners "The stress test would end up having many other virtues I didn't foresee at the time. Kabaker later dubbed it "the gift that keeps on giving." Current: CEO of Alliance Partners Anecdote: "Lee kept saying he could feel the markets tremble with every exploratory call to New York from a White House staffer." Current: Unknown (most recently Acting Treasury Secretary) "After Oxford and Yale Law School, Neal had worked for Bob Gates at the CIA; he had been Treasury's general counsel during the Clinton administration; he had run a major insurance business; and how he was a deputy White House counsel. Rahm immediately told him to get the fuck over to Treasury to help me, without even specifying a job." Obama's former chief is staff (he now works at a law firm) is described as the man responsible for getting Elizabeth Warren to run for senate instead of heading up the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. Cohen, the chairman of megafirm Sullivan &amp; Cromwell, is described as "Wall Street's trauma surgeon," having represented basically every firm that went critical during the crisis.  Geithner found many of the Senate Minority leader's beliefs and methods offensive, but appreciated his unusual candor, and willingness to recognize un-winnable battles.  Geithner reserves special praise for John Boehner, whom he says did the best he could to keep the House wolves calling for a U.S. default at bay. "I kind of liked Boehner," Geithner writes. "He had an easygoing manner, and he seemed lonely in his new position as a pragmatic conservative surrounded by extremists."  Maybe it's the height thing — but Geithner humorously (and also occasionally ragefully) — drops a fair amount of obscenities. Here's the count according to an Amazon search (which may undercount): Fucking: 8* Fuck: 6 Clusterfuck: 2 Fucked: 1 Shit: 2 Shitty: 1 *Also includes "NFW", abbreviation of "no fucking way." An example: "I'm the fucking Treasury secretary and I can't see these numbers?" Geithner screams — at New York Fed employees — his former colleagues, no less — over their unwillingness to show him very preliminary stress test data (he concedes the numbers were prone to shifting at that point). Geithner provides multiple examples of just how craven, idiotic and generally pathetic elected officials can be. The most memorable is anecdote about Mark Kirk, the Senator from Illinois who ultimately took over the seat Gov. Rod Blagojevich was convicted of trying to sell. While in Beijing on his first trip as secretary, Geithner heard that Kirk had told Chinese officials not to buy U.S. Treasuries because runaway government spending was driving us towards default and that the Fed was creating hyperinflation. "I couldn't believe it," Geithner writes. "Not only were those fears delusional, but he was undermining American interests on foreign soil."  In debating the financial reform bill, he encountered freshly elected Sen. Scott Brown. "When the conversation finally turned to substance, he said he liked the idea of financial reform and expected to be with us," Geithner writes. "But without any irony or self-consciousness, he said he needed to protect two financial institutions in Massachusetts from the Volcker Rule's restrictions. Then he furrowed his brow and turned to his aide. 'Which ones are they, again?' he asked." The most consequential is Sheila Bair, the head of the FDIC during the crisis. Geithner says Bair dropped the ball on numerous occasions: By not taking advantage of the emergency powers Congress extended to the FDIC to guarantee Washington Mutual 's, sending the cost of insuring against corporate defaults skyward and, Geithner says, dooming Wachovia to a shotgun marriage-buyout by Citi. She is ultimately given a reprieve in the acknowledgments section — and Bair herself said she was fine with Geithner's characterizations of their disagreements. But it's clear Geithner believes she made some serious tactical errors, including ones that remain a of the financial system today.  The same privilege was not bestowed on Neil Barofksy, the former prosecutor appointed by Hank Paulson as the special inspector general for the troubled asset relief fund. In July of 2009, Barofsky released a report saying TARP had exposed taxpayers to $23.7 trillion in potential losses. This was merely the size of the market the government had backstopped. But for losses ever to mount that high would require every mortgage backed by Fannie and Freddie to default, and home prices to collapse to zero. Despite the absurdity of this claim, it got picked up in most media outlets.   Geithner obliterates Barofsky for this claim, and his overall attitude in his role. "Barofsky's desire to prevent perfidy was untainted by financial knowledge or experience. He assumed our motives were self-evidently sinister, as if we had helped banks for fun and profit rather than to cure a metastasizing financial crisis." Geithner adds: "Hank Paulson apologized to me twice during our work together — once for initially failing to persuade the House to pass TARP, and once for bequeathing me Barofksy." Oh my god.  Geithner admits that the numbers he put out for how many homeowners could be helped by the HAMP and HARP relief programs were wildly off the mark. At one point they did consider granting permanent loan modifications to anyone with a trial mod, but decided against it as it would create too much opportunity for fraud, given everything that was coming out at the time about "no-doc loans" and "liar loans." The programs were also overly reliant on the same mortgage servicing industry that had caused the crisis — but there was no way Treasury would be able to create and hire for an agency to do it for them, Geithner said. Still, he argues Treasury successfully put a floor under home prices by ending the broader crisis, and that allowing values to start rising again did provide major relief. Mainly, Dodd-Frank actually eliminated the FDIC's debt guarantee authority, as well as the Fed's ability to intervene with specific firms, as it did with Bear Stearns, AIG, Citi and BofA. "That power wouldn't be necessary if the FDIC still had broad guarantee authority, but losing both could be disastrous." For anyone who would say that such powers create moral hazard, Geithner quotes Stanley Fischer that "condoms don't cause sex."  Here's Paul Krugman: Geithner also makes some demonstrably false statements about the public debate over stimulus. “At the time,” he declares, “$800 billion over two years was considered extraordinarily aggressive, twice as much as a group of 387 mostly left-leaning economists had just recommended in a public letter.” Um, no. A number of economists, including Columbia’s Joseph Stiglitz and myself, were warning that the package was too small; so was Romer, internally. And here's Ed Harrison: I think the Geithner world view is heavily skewed by his having been surrounded by self-interested elites in New York and Washington who were understandably pleading their case, a case that was banking-centric and less focused on the competing interests of homeowners, wage earners and the voting public. It's true that Geithner moved mountains to rescue the banks, and you can thus ague that he did not demonstrate the same force in getting a larger economic stimulus through Congress. But the crisis had the misfortune of occurring soon after an election. Geithner argues that "Politics ultimately determine what gets done" on fiscal policy, "and you can't afford to get bogged down in a protracted fight." Given what we see out of Congress these days, you're inclined to say it's amazing he got through anything at all.  FREE AppDownload
EPA/David Falconer/flickrA gas station in Portland, Ore. in 1973.Tuesday evening, the Wall Street Journal reported the White House had loosened rules on the four-decade-old crude export ban that had imposed in the wake of the first Arab oil crisis.  The news caused New York-traded West Texas Intermediate oil contracts to spike more than 1% instantly on the expectation for new demand. But in the past 24 hours, analysts, as well as the government itself, have chimed in to clarify that the crude export ban has not really been touched. Energy firms are permitted to export refined oil products, just not raw, unrefined crude. The Commerce Department confirmed that it approved applications from two energy firms to export a form of ultra-light oil known as condensate, of which there is now a huge glut thanks to the U.S. shale boom. But the applications were only approved because the condensate will be lightly processed through a distillation tower. "In other words, this permit is effectively a refined product under U.S. law — unrefined condensate is not allowed," Morgan Stanley's Adam Longson wrote in a note this morning, adding that the Commerce Department's ruling was a "false alarm" on the ban, and "unique." In a statement Tuesday night, the Commerce Department itself said there has been "no change in policy on crude oil exports." Clearview Energy's Kevin Book told us the rulings are basically in line with what markets had been expecting in the wake of John Podesta's comments that US crude exports are "a topic that's under consideration." Still, the condensate rulings are not without significance for prices.  "There’s no reason why markets shouldn’t find this bullish, but the status quo expectation the market may have had from Podesta et al. was WH consideration of a condensate rulemaking (which would itself just be a subset of crude available for export)," he said. "Two companies exporting condensate is a subset of a subset." Longson agrees that any movement on exports "suggests positive movement" on the exports issue, but that several questions remain about what exactly Commerce has done here — what other kinds of rulings can be expected for similar products. WTI futures were up 0.4% Wednesday afternoon. FREE AppDownload
BruceSpringsteenVEVOStocks are higher after first quarter GDP was revised sharply lower. The Dow is up 27 points, the S&amp;P 500 is up 4 points, and the Nasdaq is up 9 points. This morning, the BEA's final GDP revision showed the economy contracted by 2.9%, lower than its previous estimate of a 1% decline. Economists had been expecting a decline of 1.8%. A reduction in healthcare spending was the main culprit for the downward revision. Ian Shepherdson of Pantheon Macroeconomics said of the report, "Almost all of this huge hit is in the healthcare services component, cut to -1.4% from +9.1%." It's a bad report, but with this data representing economic activity that is basically three months old, BI's Joe Weisenthal argues that we really shouldn't care about the bad report.  Not only is the GDP report old data, but it isn't at all consistent with any other signals we've been getting from the economy. Neal Dutta of Renaissance Macro said of the report: "If GDP were truly so weak, we would not expect aggregate hours worked to climb 3.7% annualized through May, jobless claims to remain near cycle lows, consumer confidence to hit a cycle high, industrial production to climb 5.0% at an annual rate over the first five months of the year, core capital goods orders to be up 5.8%, ISM to be above 55, and vehicles sales to hit their strongest annualized selling pace for the year." And following the GDP report, Markit's U.S. services PMI jumped to 61.2 in June from 58.1 in May. This reading was also stronger than the 58.0 expected by economists.  Durable goods orders for May were also released, and showed that orders fell 1% over the prior month against expectations for a flat reading.  The Supreme Court ruled against Aereo, which allowed subscribers to stream live TV through internet-connected devices, reversing a lower court decision that found in favor of the company.  Following the ruling, shares of cable-network companies, including CBS, 21st Century Fox, and Disney, rallied sharply. Near midday, CBS shares were up more than 4%, while Fox and Disney were each up better than 1%.  In corporate news, Barnes &amp; Noble announced plans to separate its retail and Nook businesses. Shares of the bookseller were up as much as 7% after the market open following the announcement.  Agricultural giant Monsanto reported earnings that beat expectations and announced a new $10 billion share repurchase program, and shares of the company gained as much as 6% following the news.   FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Screenshot, CNBCCNBC executives are furious at SkyBridge Capital founder Anthony Scaramucci for relaunching iconic business program "Wall Street Week." That's why the popular contributor hasn't been on air since June 3. The trouble started last month at SALT Las Vegas — SkyBridge's massive hedge-fund conference. That's when Scaramucci announced on CNBC that the firm would be restarting the show with the help of former CNBC executive Susan Krakower. Krakower developed shows like "Fast Money" and "Mad Money With Jim Cramer." Part of the issue is that CNBC executives were blindsided when they learned of the deal at SALT. Sources close to the situation told Business Insider that Scaramucci didn't tell CNBC because he had signed a nondisclosure agreement with Maryland Public Broadcasting, his partner in the "Wall Street Week" relaunch deal. But that excuse didn't mollify anyone at CNBC. Executives feared the weekly show would be a competitor to their programming and were still livid at Scaramucci, who has an exclusive contributor contract with the network. The network has three years left on its exclusive four-year deal to cover SALT, which draws some of the biggest names in finance. All that said, sources say that it looks like the Mooch (as he is lovingly called) will work everything out with CNBC. It was pretty ugly for a minute there, though. FREE AppDownload
WikimediaUkrainian Oligarch Ihor KolomoyskyiThe Ukrainian revolution has been very bad for business in the country. But for Igor Kolomoisky’s Privatbank there has been compensation of almost a billion dollars in state funds: publicly, rival Ukrainian commercial banks call that favoritism; privately, Ukrainian business as usual. Privatbank is Ukraine’s largest commercial bank. Since the replacement of the Ukrainian Government in February, and the start of the International Monetary Fund’s (IMF) financial aid programme in April, Privatbank has been the largest beneficiary of what the IMF and the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance are calling Emergency Liquidity Assistance (ELA) to the country’s banks. Published measurements of Privatbank’s share of ELA range from 36% to more than 40% of the additional financing which has flowed out of Ukrainian state funds into the commercial banks. Just how much Kolomoisky benefits, along with related companies to which Privatbank lends much of its loan book, is one of the control operations being performed this week, as the IMF’s Ukraine mission starts its first inspection since the IMF transferred $3.2 billion to the National Bank of Ukraine on May 7.This is the first tranche of the $17.1 billion committed to Kiev by the IMF. The next tranche of $1.4 billion, according to the IMF’s published schedule, is due to be paid on July 25. The complete inspection and payment schedule looks like this: via Dances With Bears  The IMF mission leader in Kiev this week is Nikolay Gueorguiev. Two weeks ago, he indicated that he will be discussing with his counterparts at the National Bank of Ukraine (NBU) and the Ministry of Finance what reports the IMF expects to gather by next month on stress testing of the condition of Privatbank and the fourteen other major domestic banks, which are the IMF’s priority targets. The technical criteria, selection of independent auditors, and the deadlines for reporting stress test results Gueorguiev says he is hoping to finalize in Kiev by the weekend. For Gueorguiev’s remarks, read this. According to Gerry Rice (right), the spokesman for the IMF’s managing director, Christine Lagarde, there’s no telling how much of the IMF payments will be transferred to the Ukrainian banks. “Those funds,” said Rice, “are not assigned to specific budget line items, but the package ensures, or tries to ensure that the government can stabilize the public finances, and remain current on all its payment obligations…On the question of the disbursement, as you probably know, our disbursements are made for budget support, and then we review the budget support on a fairly rigorous basis and assessment in the context of the reviews of the program. In this case, as you know, it’s bimonthly reviews, so at that time we will be looking at how expenditures are being used, and how the budgetary support indicators are being tracked, the budget deficit indicators and so on.” In its package of agreements and technical understandings with the Ukrainian government, the IMF defined the bank bailout programme ELA as “ an emergency liquidity assistance (ELA) facility that lends at a high penalty rate against nonstandard collateral (corporate and household loans) at a 65–75 percent haircut.” — page 8. To keep tabs, the IMF is requiring the central bank (NBU) to “provide the IMF, on a two weekly basis, with daily data on the total financing (including refinancing) issued by the NBU to commercial banks, broken down by types of instrument, original maturity of the financing, interest rate as well as transactions to absorb liquidity from the banking system.” The IMF has also ordered the Ministry of Finance to “provide, no later than 15 days after the end of each month, monthly data on the budgetary costs associated with the recapitalization of banks and SOEs. This cost includes the upfront impact on the cash deficit of the general government of the recapitalization of banks and SOEs as well as the costs associated with the payment of interests.” Because the technical terminology used by the IMF, NBU, Finance Ministry, and the English-language markets can be imprecise and slip from one balance-sheet line item to another in translation, the NBU was asked to confirm what volume of NBU financing for the Ukrainian commercial banks has been provided for February, March, April, May, and the first two weeks of June? Also, what value has been received by Privatbank and its associates? The NBU issued a wordy answer. “In accordance with Article 7 of the Law of Ukraine ‘On the National Bank of Ukraine’, the National Bank of Ukraine acts as lender of last resort for banks and arranges a refinancing system to support liquidity in the event of unforeseen factors that may affect the activities of the bank, and if they have exhausted other options, refinancing. At present, the policy of the National Bank of Ukraine is aimed at ensuring transparency and equal conditions of access to refinancing instruments for the various banks”. On the other hand, the NBU said it refuses to disclose what liquidity assistance it has been paying to Privatbank because “information on banks or customers, collected during banking supervision, is a bank secret.” Because the IMF rule requires it, the Finance Ministry was asked what its record-keeping shows of how the ELA cash is being spent. The ministry responded that it’s up to the NBU to answer. Public reporting by the NBU for the January-May period indicates that a total of UAH 104.8 billion (about $8 billion) in public funds, including part of the May payment from the IMF, has been given to the Ukrainian banks under ELA to support their liquidity. The handouts started to accelerate when Stepan Kubiv was appointed by the new government to be governor of the NBU on February 24. Before he arrived, the NBU had been spending an average of UAH15.4 billion on ELA per month. After Kubiv took over, the average monthly outlay jumped to UAH 24.7 billion; that’s a growth rate of 62%. Kubiv’s career record in doing things like that before, and what IMF officials knew of it, can be followed in this report of June 6. On June 18 Kubiv was replaced by Valeria Gontareva, a banker and securities broker associated early in her career with Societe Generale and ING, and most recently with a fund called Investment Capital Ukraine and a new Ukrainian bank called Avangard. The registration of the fund’s control holding company is in the British Virgin Islands. The identities of the controlling shareholders of the fund and the bank are not known, yet. Under Kubiv until mid-June the Ukrainian business press has been claiming the ELA programme was biased in favour Privatbank. According to one report of April 6, in Kubiv’s first 35 days on the job Privatbank received UAH 9 billion out of a total ELA of UAH 21.5 billion. That is 42%. Another press report of April 12 claims “the largest recipient of the National Bank refinancing this year is PrivatBank (12 billion UAH). In second place – [state savings bank] Oschadbank (6.6 billion UAH), the third, Delta Bank (4 billion UAH).” The following tabulation shows the refinancing amounts outstanding to each of 28 Ukrainian banks. via Dances With Bears  Privatbank leads on each monthly date. Since Oschadbank and Ukreximbank are both state entities, Privatbank moves far ahead of its commercial rivals. The fourth column shows the amount of increased ELA or liquidity which Privatbank and the other banks collected from the NBU after January 13. The proportion of this increase in Privatbank’s liquidity payments turns out to be 35% of the increase in NBU’s payouts to all the banks. On June 19, a day after Kubiv was replaced at NBU, Lagarde’s spokesman at the IMF was asked whether the appointment of Gontareva, reportedly an investment advisor and friend of President Petro Poroshenko was “history repeating itself? Does this give you cause for concern?” The IMF official said: “we are always concerned about Central Bank independence in the case of Ukraine, in the case of all countries. We look forward to working with the new governor.” The independence of the Finance Minister, Alexander Shlapak (right) – also appointed in February by the incoming government – has also been questioned by Ukrainian and international banking sources. Shlapak acknowledges that between 1994 and at least 1998 he was an executive at Privatbank’s Lviv branch, and then vice-chairman of Privatbank in charge of its western Ukraine operations. Since then Shlapak has been in and out of Ukrainian government. From 2010 until his February appointment to be finance minister, he was a senior executive at IMG International Holding Company. In the Ukrainian records, this is a 6-year old insurance brokerage and fund manager, with a conglomerate of insurance companies in Ukraine, Russia and Kazakhstan. The records also reveal that while Shlapak was in charge at IMG, an investment in Oranta Insurance Company, a related party, disappeared when the latter lost its operating licence and was ordered into bankruptcy administration. Oranta has been part-owned by the controversial Kazakh business figure, Mukhtar Ablyazov, and by a Cyprus front company controlled by Victor Pinchuk. At the time Pinchuk was also operating Rossiya Insurance in Russia, but it has subsequently collapsed into bankruptcy amid allegations of cash stripping through fraudulent reinsurance schemes. Who controls IMG is not known. Shlapak was asked if he continued to have a business association with Privatbank after he left its employ. His spokesman refused to say. Asked the same question Privatbank spokesman in Dniepropetrovsk, Oleg Serga, also declined to answer. A well-known financial reporter in Kiev comments: “[Shlapak] cannot be called an agent of Kolomoisky.” Asked to confirm how much Privatbank has received to date from NBU in ELA payments, Serga will not disclose how much ELA Privatbank has been receiving, but he disputes the timing that has been reported. “We do not comment on Ukrainian media information about the volumes of refinancing; accurate data will be published in our quarterly report. The main share of borrowed funding came at the beginning of the year when the bank received from the NBU cash replenishment for its desks and ATMs in conditions of excessive demand for cash from customers of all banks. Privat has the largest ATM network in Ukraine; and the funds were received on security of non-cash resources and other assets.” Gueorguiev of the IMF said early this month that he will be negotiating auditor appointments for the Ukrainian banks on the receiving end of ELA, along with the criteria for stress testing their solvency and capital needs; initial results for the banks should be filed to the IMF by July 31. He said that auditor appointments and the stress test criteria should be made public; individual bank results will not. According to Gueorguiev the focus of his talks with Gontareva and Shlapak in Kiev this week will be “about putting in place strict criteria for the use of public funds for bank recapitalization or restructuring, in case private shareholders are unwilling or unable to do so, with the objective to safeguard the stability of the financial system.” Reporting on Privatbank’s financial condition in April, the international ratings agency Moody’s reported its concern that the bank’s capital “is immobilized by reportedly high and potentially understated levels of related-party lending.” Analyzing the bank’s balance-sheet for the first half of 2013 Moody’s said the total amount of the bank’s loans to its top 10 borrowers came to UAH13.5 billion “or close to 62% of the bank’s shareholders’ equity.” More than a quarter of the loan book was concentrated in oil trading ventures, Moody’s added, “in which the bank’s shareholders have business interests. The bank most likely has exposures to entities that are controlled (directly or indirectly) by its shareholders, which raises the possibility that loans may be more risky for the bank’s standalone position.” The bank itself claims the related-party loan exposure is minimal. According to Serga (right) last week, related-party loans by Privatbank amounted to just 1.78% of its equity capital. An international bank source has applied what he believes to be standard stress tests to Privatbank’s published 2013 accounts. He calculates that in 2015 “Privatbank would fall below capital adequacy levels which markets and regulators consider necessary. In 2016 it would be insolvent.” These forecasts, the source said, are warranted by the bank’s “large exposures to other entities of its owners. It has significant industry concentrations in Oil &amp; Gas and Steel, likely due to the bank’s owners’ interests in these industries. Both factors have historically been associated with high levels of losses in stressed conditions.” The source also concludes that because of Privatbank’s importance in the Ukrainian bank sector, the “risks of contagion and the direct effects to the Ukrainian economy from one of its largest lenders collapsing, it is likely that public assistance of Privatbank would be required in a stress.” Right now public assistance means IMF-funded ELA. So is it IMF policy to let Shlapak bail out Privatbank as Kubiv was doing? Fund officials were asked what volume of ELA financing Privatbank has been getting since the IMF programme began in April, and what security in shares or other assets has been taken by the NBU for these outlays. The IMF spokesman responded: “It is the Fund’s standing policy that we don’t comment on the country matters on the eve of missions as information gets updated in the course of the missions’ discussions with the authorities. As you probably know, the mission will begin its work will in Kyiv from June 24.” This article originally appeared at Dances With Bears. John Helmer is the longest continuously serving foreign correspondent in Russia, and the only western journalist to direct his own bureau independent of single national or commercial ties. Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesCBS President and CEO Leslie Moonves delivers a keynote address in 2007.Shares of cable-network companies — including CBS, 21st Century Fox, and Disney — are soaring after the Supreme Court's decision ruling against Aereo. CBS shares were up as much as 5% following the ruling, with Disney gaining as much as 1.6% and Fox 2%. The Court found that Aereo's service violated the copyrights of live network-TV stations.  For $8 a month, Aereo let users stream live network TV over the internet to a connected devices, such as smartphones, tablets, and PCs.  This is a huge ruling for the TV industry, and this post will be updated as developments roll in during the day. Here's what shares of CBS, Disney, and Fox, respectively, look like following the ruling:  Google FinanceShares of CBS after the Aereo ruling Google FinanceShares of Disney after the Aereo ruling Google FinanceShares of 21st Century Fox after the Aereo ruling FREE AppDownload
Q1 GDP plunged 2.9%, the worst reading since 2009. Reuters' Vincent Flasseur has provided a breakdown of how GDP's components fared. The real damage came in inventories, or stocks, which fell 1.7%; and trade balance, which had been foreshadowed by surging imports and flagging exports, contributing a loss of 1.5%. We also noted earlier how a drop in healthcare spending stifled consumption. Check it out:  Reuters FREE AppDownload
ReutersHealthcare spending plunged in the Bureau of Economic Analysis' latest estimate of first-quarter GDP growth, accounting for two-thirds of the revision that tumbled overall growth to -2.9%. In the BEA's first estimate of first-quarter growth, healthcare spending was projected to explode by 9.9%. It was subsequently revised to 9.1%. But the latest estimate had healthcare spending plunging to -1.4%. "So much for the BEA's initial view that the start of Obamacare triggered a surge in spending on healthcare," Pantheon Macroeconomics' Ian Shepherdson said. "The press release offers no detail on what triggered this massive revision." So what triggered that massive revision? The BEA told Business Insider the revision was based on a new set of data from the Commerce Department's quarterly services survey. That survey provided a few important data points: Healthcare and social assistance spending, overall, plunged 2%. Revenue for hospitals (-1.3%), medical labs (-6.4%), and outpatient care (-3.6%) all fell in the first quarter of 2014 when compared to the final three months of 2013. A BEA spokesman said the agency had previously used "information on Medicaid benefits and on ACA insurance exchange enrollments as well as other available data" to determine the spending increase. "These data sources suggested a relatively large increase in health care spending. Based on these data sources, we had assumed that ACA related effects boosted consumer spending on healthcare services by about $37 billion for 2014Q1 (in current dollars). The QSS data now available does not show this same increase," the spokesman said. Among the first to convey skepticism about the BEA's initial estimate was Peter Orszag, the former OMB director. His argument: For spending to have exploded with healthcare employment growing at an average pace, it would mean an incredible boom in in healthcare productivity. "It would mean that somehow we're able to produce so much more health care with each worker, in a dramatic fashion, starting magically with the fourth quarter of last year," Orszag told Business Insider in May. "OK, maybe? It's just not really plausible. If all of this were real, it would mean that suddenly, magically, health-care workers have become a lot more productive." Orszag recently posted a chart on Twitter (below) showing the BEA's initial advance estimate didn't square with the QSS data released Wednesday. He suggested at the time it likely meant healthcare spending will be revised downward. Though analysts suggested the data was subjected to revision, few could've predicted such an incredible swing. Jason Furman, the chairman of the White House's of the Council of Economic Advisers, said it's the biggest revision in roughly 30 years. Twitter/@porszag FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Philippe Wojazer French President Francois Hollande listens to a question during a news conference at the Elysee Palace in Paris, January 14, 2014.PARIS (Reuters) - For the boss of General Electric, the trials and tribulations of doing business in France are summed up in the lyric of an old Rolling Stones’ song: "You can’t always get what you want, but if you try sometimes you just might find you get what you need." This pragmatic approach to one of the Western world's most complex business environments, spelt out in a blog by Jeff Immelt to staff after GE  secured parts of Alstom's energy business, highlights France's uneasy investment image. For some, government involvement in the Alstom saga - which included pushing through a decree expanding its powers to block takeover deals in strategic sectors, and the state taking 20 percent stake in Alstom - has added to their concerns. "The GE-Alstom deal is another negative example of the protectionist French attitude," the German country head of a large investment bank said. "In France, bosses are sometimes taken hostage and tires are burned, but on top of that the state interferes even if companies don’t ask for it," said the banker, who declined to be named to avoid harming prospects of doing business in France. He was referring to frequent worker protests over layoffs and so-called "boss-nappings" in which employees lock managers in their business premises overnight to demand concessions. Other observers are more phlegmatic. GE's experience shows that for all its reputation, France isn't necessarily hostile to foreign takeovers if the acquirers know which buttons to push. Ultimately, Paris agreed to the sale of Alstom's lucrative gas turbine assets and a joint venture in the sensitive nuclear arm, acknowledging the struggling firm could not go on alone. Indeed, the GE-Alstom deal was the second time in months that the Socialist government has allowed an iconic company to bring in foreign capital. China's Dongfeng  became a shareholder in car-maker PSA-Peugeot-Citroen alongside the French state as part of a capital injection. Shareholders backed the deal in April. "It's not like it's a forbidden land for M&amp;A. Deals happen all the time," said Daniel Holland, senior equity analyst at Morningstar, who covers GE and other conglomerates. "It's just a reminder that the government still has a role regardless of how much you think the market should decide." CHARM In the Alstom battle, patience, presentation and job creation were key. Immelt led a charm offensive which included meetings with President Francois Hollande and pro-intervention Economy Minister Arnaud Montebourg, wooing lawmakers and trade unions as well as advertising in leading newspapers and radio. Faced with a rival offer by Germany's Siemens and Japan's Mitsubishi Heavy Industries &lt;7011.T&gt;, GE totally revamped its offer to turn it from a straight purchase into one including joint ventures, a state stake-holding and veto on nuclear strategy. It sought advice from asset manager Lazard - some of whose managers have ties with Hollande going back years - and vowed to create 1,000 new jobs within three years or accept a fine of 50,000 euros ($68,000) for every job short of that target. A strong asset for GE was having establishment insider Clara Gaymard - ex-head of the Invest in France agency and wife of a former minister - at the head of its French business and a very public advocate for the bid. GE also made widely known that it has had a permanent industrial presence in France for some 40 years, making it anything but a hostile American predator. Put together, GE's approach allowed Hollande's government - enduring rock bottom popularity ratings due to the poor state of the euro zone's second largest economy - to claim a victory. "We live in a complicated world where multiple voices must be heard and understood," Immelt reflected in his blog. The government may have intervened in Alstom's case, but it did not step in on a much bigger takeover this year by Switzerland’s Holcim of French group Lafarge, the world's largest cement maker. It also stayed out of a now defunct plan by France's Publicis to merge with the U.S-based Omnicom to create the world's largest ad agency. To many analysts interviewed about Alstom, the clear message is that France will intervene only when it sees the business as strategic, or when many domestic jobs at stake. "France has given itself veto power but that's normal given the strategic nature of the matter and I'm sure other countries would have done likewise," one Italian investment banker said. The 2-trillion-euro economy is struggling more than other large industrialised countries to attract foreign investment but it is still a major target for M&amp;A activity. Thomson Reuters data on M&amp;A deals going back to 2000 show France as the sixth biggest target of cross-border deals with a total value of nearly half a trillion U.S. dollars. This puts it slightly behind neighboring Germany and the Netherlands and far behind Britain both in terms of value and share of M&amp;A deals coming from abroad. But still, over a third of M&amp;A deals targeting French companies come from abroad. Its regulations on foreign direct investment are slightly less open than those of 16 fellow EU countries but are still less restrictive than average among the main industrialised nations, according to rankings by the OECD think-tank. That said, foreign direct investment in terms of GDP lies far behind all other G7 countries except Japan, representing 0.2 percent of France's economic output last year, seven times less than the OECD average, data show. ECONOMY MORE A CONCERN France's reference daily Le Monde backed state intervention to get a better offer for Alstom but voiced concern that the state had taken a stake in Alstom for what it called political reasons to prevent the leftist Montebourg resigning. "This could further put off foreign investors who will choose to avoid France and its interventionist state," the daily said in an editorial. "If foreign direct investment in France, apart from real estate, is far below OECD average, there is a reason for that." Officials note that France is not the only country keeping an eye on bids targeting flagship companies. Washington barred Dubai Ports World from buying port operator P&amp;O in 2006 and stopped China's CNOOC buying oil firm Unocal in 2005. In Europe, British Prime Minister David Cameron said he wanted further commitments from Pfizer before giving his blessing to a takeover bid for Britain's second largest drugs group AstraZeneca, which eventually fell through. Some argue the interventionist risk in France is manageable and that the real problem is a sluggish economy - which the statistics office sees undershooting the government's 1 percent growth target this year - and the failure of successive governments to bring about deep structural reform. "Investors have always known that (intervention) is the case," said Andrea Williams, European equity fund manager at Royal London Asset Management. "They would be more worried about the fact that the economy does not seem to be doing that well and the reforms are not being introduced by Hollande." FREE AppDownload
Classic men's jewelry that is sophisticated without going over the top falls into two categories: a wedding ring and a great watch. We visited Bergdorf Goodman's Men's Store to chat with Town &amp; Country Magazine's style director Stellene Volandes about the watch styles and shapes that make great long-term investments. Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis.
MarkitForget about today's ugly Q1 GDP report because America's services industry is hot. According to Markit, U.S. services purchasing managers index (PMI) unexpectedly jumped to 61.2 in June from 58.1 in May. This was stronger than the 58.0 expected by economists. "Business activity in the US service sector surged higher in June," said Markit's Chris Williamson. "A record high in the services PMI follows news from the flash manufacturing PMI that factory output grew in June at the fastest rate for just over four years. Combined, the two PMI surveys indicate that business activity is growing at the strongest rate seen since prior to the financial crisis." Here are the key points from Markit's report: "Improved confidence has fed through to increased hiring," said Williamson. "Manufacturing and services sector firms took on staff at the fastest rate that we have seen since the financial crisis, boding well for another month of 200,000-plus non-farm payroll growth in June." Here's a break down of the PMI: Markit FREE AppDownload
Julie Zeveloff/Business InsiderI've been Business Insider's managing editor for almost four years now. Since we're a fast-growing company, we're constantly looking for new talent, from interns to site leads. Between career fairs, coffees, and in-office interviews, I've interviewed hundreds of people. Most candidates come prepared — but many don't. Each one of these warnings comes from real life experiences I've had while conducting interviews at Business Insider. FREE AppDownload
Stelios Christakis/YouTube YIKES! We just got the third revision to Q1 GDP, and it was horrible. After an initial estimate showing a mere 0.1% gain in growth in the first quarter, the government now says the economy shrunk at a staggering 2.9% pace, making it the worst quarter Q1 2009, at the pit of the financial crisis. So should you worry? Absolutely not. Here are a bunch of reasons why. First, this is old, old data. It's almost July, and we're talking about data that goes from January through March. And as we know, the weather was horrendous in that quarter. Second, healthcare spending had a huge impact. Ian Shepherdson of Pantheon Economics explained: Two-thirds of the revision is in consumption, cut to +1.0% from +3.1% ... Almost all of this huge hit is in the healthcare services component, cut to -1.4% from +9.1%." Given that this was the quarter of the Obamacare rollout, it's likely that the numbers are wonky. Most importantly, this data isn't consistent with anything else in the economy. Neal Dutta of Renaissance Macro tells it like it is in a note titled GDP = USELESS: If GDP were truly so weak, we would not expect aggregate hours worked to climb 3.7% annualized through May, jobless claims to remain near cycle lows, consumer confidence to hit a cycle high, industrial production to climb 5.0% at an annual rate over the first five months of the year, core capital goods orders to be up 5.8%, ISM to be above 55, and vehicle sales to hit their strongest annualized selling pace for the year. GDP is the outlier in these data points. I will roll my eyes and move on. Most of the data we just mentioned is consistent with underlying growth over 3.0%. This is really what's key. Not only is the current data strong, but most of the data for Q1 (including job creation) was fine. If that 2.9% number really reflected a major collapse in the economy, we wouldn't have had in-line job creation numbers in January, February, and March. Finally, things are looking better than they have in a long time. Since Q1, the data has been MUCH stronger, with indicators of accelerating credit creation, wages, prices, and industrial output. There's a lot of data that covers this, but rather than going through all that, we just wanted to highlight one chart which probably most people haven't seen, but says something big about the state of the recovery. Tuesday, Consumer Confidence came in at its highest level in a long time, but Wells Fargo pulled out this fascinating nugget from the survey. We're finally at the point where more consumers are saying they see the economy as being good, as opposed to bad.  Wells Fargo This isn't about Wall Street or the stock market. This is a real pivotal point in terms of the general outlook. People are feeling the recovery. And that's not something you would expect to see if things were collapsing. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsBlackjack, also known as 21, seems like it's one of the easiest card games out there. The objective is to get a higher score than the dealer without surpassing 21. And, ideally, you want to get blackjack. But if you think that blackjack is easy, that probably means that you don't actually know all of the rules, or how to maximize your strategy. There are lots of variations of blackjack, usually depending on the casino, but we're going to go over some of the universal rules and strategies in the game. And if you start to feel a bit confused while reading this - well, that just means that you're starting to understand the game. First thing's first. The cards' values. Cards with the numbers 2 through 10 have their face value - that's pretty easy. Jacks, queens, and kings are valued at 10 points. Aces can be 1 or 11 points. What 'blackjack' actually means. Surprisingly, lots of people think that blackjack is any card total that sums up to 21. But "blackjack" - also called "natural 21" - is only when you add up to 21 on the first two cards that you are dealt. You need to get an Ace and one of the 10-value cards for this to happen. Basic rules of betting in blackjack. There are always minimum and maximum bets in blackjack. In some casinos, like Caesars, you can go all the way up to $50,000. But the fun stuff comes after you've made your bet. Let's say that you bet $100. If you lose, the dealer gets your $100. If you win, you get your original $100 bet back, plus the dealer gives you $100. If you draw (or push) you keep your bet money. And if you get blackjack, you get your original $100 bet back, plus $150 from the dealer because for blackjack, you get 1.5 times your bet. Blackjack is fundamentally a two-person game. Sometimes players get too caught up in what the other people at the table are doing. But it is important to remember that you are only playing against the dealer. If you lose that mindset, it will affect your play. Understand what "Blackjack 3 to 2" means. Somewhere on the blackjack table there will be a sign that says, "blackjack pays 3 to 2". All this means is that you, the player, will get $3 for every $2 you wager. This is standard, and gives the house slightly elevated odds. If you see "Blackjack pays 6 to 5" run away from that casino. Be careful. Sometimes the house has different odds. A lot of rookie players make the mistake of thinking that 6 to 5 is more profitable that 3 to 2. They see that they get $6 from the 6 to 5, and $3 from the 3 to 2, and think, "Hey, $6 is more than $3 - great news for me." But the important thing to consider is the ratios. In this case, 6 to 5 is smaller than 3 to 2 - which means that the house is great odds. Bottom line, you're going to lose a lot of money. If you see "Blackjack pays 2 to 1", that's good news for you. This doesn't happen often anymore because most casino owners have figured out that 2 to 1 actually gives the player better odds than the house. But in case you do stumble upon a casino like this, make the most of it. Hit versus stand. Let's say that the first two cards you are dealt are a 2 and a 7. This adds up to 9, which is far from 21. You have the option of getting a hit, or an additional card. Let's say that the next one you get is a 10. Now your total is 19, which is close to 21. Here, you should choose to stand, which means that your final score for the round is 19. Remember that you don't want to go over 21 or else you will bust because then you automatically lose. Double Down. If after you've received your first two cards you are fairly confident that you're going to beat the dealer, you can increase your original bet by as much as 2 times the bet (It depends on the casino, though - sometimes you can only increase by exactly 2 times the bet.) This can be one of the more profitable options in blackjack, but don't let overconfidence get the best of you. Split. If you are initially dealt two cards of equal value, you can split them. After they're split, you play as though you have two hands. This is an especially smart choice if you are dealt two 8's because they total to 16, which is the worst number to get. This way you can increase your odds on a particularly bad pair. Note: make sure to check with the casino if you are allowed to split all 10-values. Sometimes you can split pairings like Ten-Queen. Surrender. After you have been dealt the first two cards, if you feel as though you have a lousy hand compared to the dealer, you can surrender. This means that you will reclaim half of your bet and the dealer will keep the other half of your bet. It's smart to do this in a situation when you have a bad combination (again, some sort of combination that gives you 16) and the dealer is showing either an Ace or a 10. Make sure you don't surrender too often though, because then you're just losing money. Insurance. Insurance confuses a lot of people, but basically all it means is that you are insuring yourself against the dealer having blackjack. After you see that the dealer's upcard (or his visible card) is an Ace, you can create a side bet betting that the dealer will get blackjack. This side bet is completely independent of your original wager. The idea is to even out the money you would lose if the dealer got blackjack, versus the money you would gain from your bet. Be careful, though, because this bet is designed to lose in the long run. A dealer is only supposed to have blackjack less than 1/3 of the time when his upcard is an Ace. Now that you're armed with basic knowledge and some playing strategy, you're ready to face the dealer. Get out there and see what you can do. FREE AppDownload
Spencer Platt/Getty ImagesBarnes &amp; Noble announced that its board approved the separation of its retail and Nook businesses.  Along with its fourth quarter earnings release, the company said: "With the objective of optimizing shareholder value, the Company’s Board of Directors has authorized management of the Company to take steps to separate the Barnes &amp; Noble Retail and NOOK Media businesses into two separate public companies.  The Company’s objective is to take the steps necessary to complete the separation by the end of the first quarter of next calendar year." On a company-wide basis, B&amp;N's Q4 revenue grew 3.5% against last year to $1.32 billion. In its fiscal 2015, B&amp;N expects comparable bookstore sales in its Retail and Core segments to decline by low-single digits. For its fiscal 2014, the company's revenue fell 6.7%, and revenue in its Nook segment fell 35.2% to just $505.9 million.  In the fourth quarter, the company sold just $25 million worth of NOOK devices and accessories. It's been a long time coming for the separation of the businesses. In February, BI's Jay Yarow reported that B&amp;N fired its Nook hardware engineers.  In February 2013, the company's chairman Leonard Riggio announced a proposal to purchase all the assets of the company's retail business.  Last August, however, Riggio said he suspended his efforts to separate the units.  In pre-market trading, shares of Barnes &amp; Noble were up as much as 7%.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Edgar SuPretty much everyone was stunned to see Q1 GDP growth slashed to -2.9% from an earlier estimate of -1.0%. The revision largely boils down to one thing: healthcare spending. "Two thirds of the revision is in consumption, cut to +1.0% from +3.1%," said Pantheon Macroeconomics Ian Shepherdson. "Almost all of this huge hit is in the healthcare services component, cut to -1.4% from +9.1%." According to the BEA, healthcare spending went from adding 1.01 percentage points to subtracting 0.16 from the headline GDP growth number. "So much for the BEA's initial view that the start of Obamacare triggered a surge in spending on healthcare," said Shepherdon. "The press release offers no detail on what triggered this massive revision." We'll surely hear more about that. Also, while healthcare was responsible for the bulk of the revision, it wasn't responsible for all of it. "Net trade also contributed, taking 1.5 percentage points off growth compared with 1.0 percentage points previously," said Capital Economics' Paul Dales. Most economists and strategists are brushing this off. First of all, it reflects activity from Q1, which ended in March. Second, the bulk of the more recent data has been positive. "If GDP were truly so weak, we would not expect aggregate hours worked to climb 3.7% annualized through May, jobless claims to remain near cycle lows, consumer confidence to hit a cycle high, industrial production to climb 5.0% at an annual rate over the first five months of the year, core capital goods orders to be up 5.8%, ISM to be above 55, and vehicle sales to hit their strongest annualized selling pace for the year," said Renaissance Macro's Neil Dutta. "GDP is the outlier in these data points. I will roll my eyes and move on. Most of the data we just mentioned is consistent with underlying growth over 3.0%."   FREE AppDownload
The eccentric Chinese billionaire who is throwing a lunch in Central Park for New York's "poor" on Wednesday has been spotted attempting to hand out money to random New Yorkers, with mixed results.  The New York Post reports that on Tuesday recycling magnate Chen Guangbiao handed out $100 bills the neighborhood around Tribeca’s New York City Rescue Mission. Chen has been advertising a “charity luncheon for 1,000 poor and destitute Americans” at 11 a.m. today through two prominent placements in The New York Times and Wall Street Journal last week. #classicNYC --&gt; Chinese tycoon struggles to give away $100 to suspicious New Yorkers http://t.co/lVxjEZ2Bz1 pic.twitter.com/jQ3zQvESaU (Check out another photo at The New York Post). Chen's guests will reportedly be given $300 to spend on “occupational training” as well as lunch at the Loeb Boathouse restaurant in Central Park. He estimates that the event will cost him about $1 million. Here's an important point from The Post: "[Chen] also insists he will go ahead with his plans to hand cash to the guests, even though the rescue mission doesn’t think that’s a good idea because many of the homeless diners have drug problems." Business Insider will have more coverage of the event later today. FREE AppDownload
BruceSpringsteenVEVOStocks are higher after first quarter GDP was revised sharply lower. The Dow is up 27 points, the S&amp;P 500 is up 4 points, and the Nasdaq is up 9 points. This morning, the BEA's final GDP revision showed the economy contracted by 2.9%, lower than its previous estimate of a 1% decline. Economists had been expecting a decline of 1.8%. A reduction in healthcare spending was the main culprit for the downward revision. Ian Shepherdson of Pantheon Macroeconomics said of the report, "Almost all of this huge hit is in the healthcare services component, cut to -1.4% from +9.1%." It's a bad report, but with this data representing economic activity that is basically three months old, BI's Joe Weisenthal argues that we really shouldn't care about the bad report.  Not only is the GDP report old data, but it isn't at all consistent with any other signals we've been getting from the economy. Neal Dutta of Renaissance Macro said of the report: "If GDP were truly so weak, we would not expect aggregate hours worked to climb 3.7% annualized through May, jobless claims to remain near cycle lows, consumer confidence to hit a cycle high, industrial production to climb 5.0% at an annual rate over the first five months of the year, core capital goods orders to be up 5.8%, ISM to be above 55, and vehicles sales to hit their strongest annualized selling pace for the year." And following the GDP report, Markit's U.S. services PMI jumped to 61.2 in June from 58.1 in May. This reading was also stronger than the 58.0 expected by economists.  Durable goods orders for May were also released, and showed that orders fell 1% over the prior month against expectations for a flat reading.  The Supreme Court ruled against Aereo, which allowed subscribers to stream live TV through internet-connected devices, reversing a lower court decision that found in favor of the company.  Following the ruling, shares of cable-network companies, including CBS, 21st Century Fox, and Disney, rallied sharply. Near midday, CBS shares were up more than 4%, while Fox and Disney were each up better than 1%.  In corporate news, Barnes &amp; Noble announced plans to separate its retail and Nook businesses. Shares of the bookseller were up as much as 7% after the market open following the announcement.  Agricultural giant Monsanto reported earnings that beat expectations and announced a new $10 billion share repurchase program, and shares of the company gained as much as 6% following the news.   FREE AppDownload
APDurable goods orders contracted 1%. Consensus was for a headline reading of no growth versus a revised 0.8% increase in April. But excluding defense and aircraft, capital goods orders climbed 0.7%, beating expectations of 0.5% and a substantial increase from a 1.2% contraction last week. New orders for defense-related capital goods fell 31.4%. "...The key number in the report - orders for non-defense capital equipment, ex-aircraft - rose 0.7%," Pantheon Macro's Ian Shepherdson said. "Even if this is 'unch.' in June, the quarter as a whole will be up 10% annualized, the  best since Q1 2013 and consistent with our view that small firms are starting to increase capex even as sluggish earnings growth holds back spending by larger companies. Note inventories up 1%, biggest gain since Dec. Overall, much better than the headline." Here's the full rundown: Durable goods orders: -1%, consensus 0.0% (0.8% prior) Durables ex-transportation: -0.1%, consensus 0.3% (0.4% prior) Capital goods shipments, non-defense, ex-air: 0.4%, consensus 1% (-0.4% prior) Capital goods orders, non-defense, ex-air, ex-transportation: 0.7%, consensus 0.5% (-1.2% prior). Full release » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueEconomists estimated U.S. GDP contracted in the first quarter, but not by this much. According to the Bureau of Economic Analysis, GDP fell 2.9% at an annualized rate in Q1. This third estimate was down sharply from the BEA's previous estimate of -1.0%. This was also much worse than the -1.8% forecast by economists. As expected, healthcare spending was revised down sharply. It went from adding 1.01 percentage points to subtracting 0.16 from the headline GDP growth number. "It marked the second biggest downward revision from the agency's second GDP estimate since records began in 1976," reported Bloomberg's Jeanna Smialek. From the BEA: "The decrease in real GDP in the first quarter primarily reflected negative contributions from private inventory investment, exports, state and local government spending, nonresidential fixed investment, and residential fixed investment that were partly offset by a positive contribution from PCE. Imports, which are a subtraction in the calculation of GDP, increased." Personal-consumption growth was slashed to 1.0% from 2.4%. The buildup in inventories subtracted 1.7 percentage points from GDP. Real final sales, or GDP less the change in private inventories, was revised to -1.3%. That's down from +0.6% a month ago. It was +2.7% in Q4. Here's a breakdown of GDP components via BEA: BEA FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersPhoto illustration of Google logo is reflected on the screen of a Samsung Galaxy S4 smartphone(Reuters) - Google Inc is expected to unveil at least one small set-top box that resembles products like the Roku, Amazon's Fire TV, and Apple Inc's Apple TV, the Wall Street Journal reported citing sources who have seen the device. Google will show off the set-top box on Wednesday during its developer conference, the Journal said. The set-top box will be powered by Google's new Android TV software designed to play movies, games and other content on television. However, the device will carry another company's brand name, the newspaper said. Representatives from Google were not immediately available for comment outside regular U.S. business hours. Tech companies from Microsoft Corp to Apple are vying for space on the TV - the traditional family entertainment center and where people used to spend most of their leisure time before the advent of the smartphone and tablet. Amazon unveiled a $99 video streaming device "Fire TV" video and game streaming device in April, with hopes of boosting its main online retail business over the longer term. In December 2012, Google sold its set-top TV box maker Motorola Home to Arris Group Inc for $2.35 billion. (Reporting by Anannya Pramanick in Bangalore; Editing by Gopakumar Warrier) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Phil McCarten Marc Andreessen, co-founder and general partner of Andreessen Horowitz, speaks during the "The Future of Technology" panel at the Fortune Tech Brainstorm 2009 in Pasadena, California July 22, 2009. We happened to be on Twitter this morning when Andreessen Horowitz founding partner and general tech-god Marc Andreessen launched into one of his famous "tweet-storms." These sequential lectures, each entry of which contains a helpful number to avoid confusing new listeners, might be more accurately described as Tweet Essays. Mr. Andreessen has advanced this digital art form to a new level. His Tweet essays are usually as concise, smart, informative, and provocative as he is in person and conventional media. This morning's essay was on the perennial tech trends of "bundling" and "unbundling," in which companies attack each other by offering part of one another's products more cheaply and conveniently (a.k.a., "disruption"). This topic has been much in the tech news since the New Yorker published a takedown of Harvard professor Clay Christensen's sophisticated disruption theory more than 15 years after he first advanced it in "The Innovator's Dilemma." Since the late 1990s, the word "disruption" has been commandeered by the tech industry and come to be used so frequently and carelessly that it is now basically synonymous with "what startups do."  That the word "disruption" has been so debased is a source of annoyance to many, including Christensen. But why the New Yorker would so aggressively attack the entire theory 15 years after the fact is a mystery, as many of its main patterns seem to occur repeatedly, especially in technology. Anyway, Andreessen, who is an investor in this company, Business Insider, has published several Tweet-essays on this topic, with this morning's being only the most recent. And, for Andreessen, who can generally be found on the West Coast of America, this was actually a late-night Tweet essay, not an early morning one, as many of his Tweet essays are. (If Andreessen ever sleeps, it is not apparent when.) The essay began with the tweet below and concluded 17 tweets later. And then, as he always does, Andreessen took and responded to questions. At this writing, that process is still ongoing. 1/Late night tweetstorm addendum to earlier series on unbundling (https://t.co/ecgBveoiMj) and rebundling (https://t.co/0fw9alDKh3)... We hypothesized that Mr. Andreessen might use Twitter so he could interact with listeners and take questions on each specific point. Mr. Andreessen confirmed that. And then he cited another reason: "Yep! And + forces concision without sounding inappropriately terse." That logic really does get at one of the virtues of Twitter: The ability to interact, selectively, with smart strangers and colleagues (and to ignore or even block dumb or rude ones) on specific points, while also preserving time and ego for both parties by limiting responses to 140 characters. At the same time, it allows all responses to be published publicly for anyone else who might be interested without boring the crap out of anyone who isn't. And it preserves everything forever, in a format that allows everyone to read it (or not) on their own time whenever they are interested wherever they happen to be. That's pretty cool! SEE ALSO: The Sex-At-Work Survey: The Results Are In! Disclosure: Marc Andreessen is an investor in Business Insider. FREE AppDownload
ReutersA worker checks giant cable reels at a Nexans factory in Maliano, northern Spain March 30, 2006.(Reuters) - U.S. businesses' burgeoning demand for data and video is fueling a revival in fiber optic services, an industry once decimated by overbuilding during the dotcom era. The recovery is leading to a number of acquisitions as the largest telecom companies duke it out with cable operators and telecom providers such as Level 3 Communications Inc to serve corporate customers. Companies like Level 3 have been successful in shifting their focus to the industry's sweet spot - the "last mile" of fiber which is typically the most expensive to develop. They connect business clients to larger networks, allowing data and Internet traffic to be transmitted at ultra-fast speeds through thin filaments of glass. Level 3, a Colorado-based company which narrowly avoided bankruptcy in the early 2000s, put an exclamation point on its long climb back from near death with the $5.65 billion acquisition last week of tw telecom Inc - a merger which will connect 35,000 commercial buildings nationwide to its fiber network. Analysts expect Level 3 to report an annual profit this year for the first time in 16 years. The acquisition of tw telecom, a joint venture between US West and Time Warner founded in 1993, wasn't the first such fiber oriented deal and won't be the last, analysts and industry bankers said. The market for corporate customers' voice and data services has been estimated by analysts to be worth anywhere from $57 billion to $100 billion in revenue per year. "There's an unstoppable demand for bandwidth so that's behind this and there's been a lot of consolidation. It's a business that works on scale," said IDC analyst Mark Winther. Fiber network provider Zayo, a company that Reuters previously reported is pursuing an initial public offering, says it has bought 25 companies – including AboveNet in 2012 for $2.2 billion - since it was founded in 2007, according to its website. And Zach Nebergall, the vice president of Dark Fiber Strategic Product Group at Zayo said he expects Zayo to keep acquiring companies as long as they aren't overpriced. Among other private companies, Fibertech, owned by Court Square Capital, could be a candidate for sale, industry bankers said. Lightower, which buyout shop Berkshire Partners bought in 2012, is another sale or IPO candidate, the people said. Representatives from Court Square Capital, which owns Fibertech, and Berkshire Capital, which owns Lightower declined to comment on their exit plans, while Zayo declined to comment on IPO plans. Cable and telecom companies could also become bigger buyers for fiber assets. Time Warner Cable spent $600 million in cash on DukeNet, a regional fiber optic network in the Carolinas co-owned by Duke Energy in October. Winther said so-called enterprise clients, which are the biggest corporate customers and include everything from financial institutions to hospitals, are tough negotiators on price, so the way providers can maintain margins is by getting bigger. Sunit Patel, chief financial officer of Level 3, said it could cost between roughly $50,000 to $150,000 to connect a large client, with the investment paid off quickly - within six months to two years, depending on the length of the contract. "We essentially have transformed from being a largely wholesale player 10-15 years ago to one that is predominately an enterprise player today. All of the growth is coming from enterprise customers," Patel said in an interview.   COMEBACK Demand for fiber services wasn't always so strong. In the early 2000s, the industry was in turmoil, with a glut of fiber being built across the U.S. Before its collapse amid an accounting scandal, Enron Corp dabbled in fiber routes, while WorldCom was losing money on its fiber networks before its top executives committed fraud and the company went bankrupt. Prices for fiber-optic cable plummeted, a big chunk of what had been a plethora of start-ups went under and miles of fiber networks built to carry Internet traffic over long distances lay fallow, or dark. Level 3 struggled during the downturn but got a cash infusion of $500 million in 2002 from investors including Warren Buffett. In the decade that followed, Level 3 consolidated at a rapid clip and picked off the remains of the most desirable U.S. fiber networks. Global Crossing, a telecom company once worth billions, went bankrupt and was later acquired by Level 3 in 2011. Level 3 now has a market value of $10.5 billion, compared to about $1 billion in 2001. The fastest growing area of the market is in local fiber routes that connect directly to buildings, in stark contrast to the long haul routes that were built out during the telecom boom more than a decade ago. Constructing fiber routes to the "last mile" to local buildings and offices is very expensive because in densely populated areas, companies have to get permits and often have to be built underground around electricity and gas lines. The companies that drove the boom about 15 years ago ran out of money before they could build out these local routes, said D.A. Davidson &amp; Co telecom analyst Donna Jaegers. Now, fiber networks in cities are in demand and their services sell for a premium. Market leaders in the local fiber space are AT&amp;T, Verizon and CenturyLink, which have a combined 60 percent market share of the business enterprise market, Jaegers said. Cable companies have about 10-12 percent while Level 3 had 4.5-5 percent and tw telecom 2-3 percent, Jaegars added. The threat from cable companies provides another reason for smaller players to consolidate. Comcast, which is focused on wiring up small businesses, has been rounding out its fiber networks and plans to expand aggressively after its proposed merger with Time Warner Cable is approved by regulators. Telecom companies also got more strategic about where they were installing fiber. Nebergall, the Zayo executive who also worked at Level 3, said the mantra 12 or 15 years ago was "if you built it, they will come." Now that's changed.  "There's a known set of demand for locations to which we're building so it's not like we're putting fiber in the ground and hoping that there will be demand," he said.    (Reporting by Liana B. Baker; Editing by Christian Plumb and Martin Howell) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kim Kyung-HoonWorkers clean a building's glass wall bearing a reflection of other buildings at a financial district in Beijing, June 24, 2014. Good morning! Here's what you need to know: Oil Exports Are Coming Back."The Obama administration cleared the way for the first exports of unrefined American oil in nearly four decades, allowing energy companies to start chipping away at the longtime ban on selling U.S. oil abroad," reported the WSJ's Christian Berthelsen and Lynn Cook. "In separate rulings that haven't been announced, the Commerce Department gave Pioneer Natural Resources Co. and Enterprise Products Partners LP permission to ship a type of ultralight oil known as condensate to foreign buyers. The buyers could turn the oil into gasoline, jet fuel and diesel." Prices Initially Spike. WTI crude oil futures prices spiked to above $107.50 per barrel from around $105.75 as speculators anticipated the impact of this new overseas demand. Currently, prices are around $106.50. Condensate Is Not Crude Oil. Morgan Stanley commodities analyst Adam Longson wasn't that impressed by the WSJ story. His quick take: "No change in crude export policy." Longson clarifies that condensate is actually a form of refined product, and refined product exports are already legal. "[T]he application was only allowed because the condensate will be lightly processed through a distillation tower," he explained. "In other words, this permit is effectively a refined product under US law – unrefined condensate is not allowed." ...But It's Promising. "That said, we view the expanding definition of refined products as a positive, and a step closer to greater export opportunities," Longson continued. Rather than waiting for outright crude exports, energy players are pushing for near-crude which at least is a step in the right direction in moving the flood of oil in the US. "We continue to believe more opportunities remain to absorb light crude oil in the US, particularly if the industry is creative" Markets Are Lower. In Europe, Britain's FTSE 100 is down 0.6%, France's CAC 40 is down 0.6%, Germany's DAX is down 0.3%, Spain's IBEX is down by 0.6%. In Asia, Japan's Nikkei closed down by 0.7%, Hong Kong's Hang Seng closed down 0.1%, and Australia's S&amp;P/ASX closed down by 0.6%. Bad Sign For US Housing. Mortgage application activity fell by 1.0% during the week ended June 20, which follows the prior week's 9.2% drop. This conflicts with encourage sales and sentiment data. "Homebuilders likely are gaining market share from private sellers - builders are more motivated sellers, and have better access to information - but sales cannot trend higher indefinitely with mortgage demand still so weak," said Jana McTigue at Pantheon Macroeconomics. Get Ready For An Ugly GDP Report. At 8:30 a.m. ET, the BEA will publish its final revised estimate of Q1 GDP. Economists estimate GDP growth will be slashed to -1.8%, down from an earlier estimated of -1.0%. Morgan Stanley's Ted Wieseman explains: "Data released since the first revision to Q1 GDP growth to -1.0% from +0.1% point to a significantly lower number again. Indeed, Q1 looks to have been the worst quarter outside of an actual recession on record by a wide margin. BEA had been assuming strong growth in healthcare spending based on significant expansion of insurance coverage this year under Medicaid and insurance exchanges, but the Census Bureau’s quarterly services report instead showed a pullback in healthcare spending after strong growth in Q4, and BEA’s incorporation of the Census Bureau data should account for most of a cut in consumption growth to 2.1% from 3.1%. The other big expected revision is to trade. Annual revisions pointed to the Q1 net exports contribution being revised down to -1.5pp from -1.0pp, we estimate." A More Current Reading On The Economy. Also at 8:30 a.m., we'll get the durable goods orders report. Economists estimate orders showed 0.0% growth in May. However, nondefense capital goods orders excluding aircraft is estimated to have climbed by 0.5%. "Our expectation is that durable goods orders likely reversed course in May, declining 0.2 percent with the volatile transportation component weighing down the headline number," said Wells Fargo's John Silvia. "However, once transportation goods are excluded, we expect new orders to rise 0.1 percent for the month, further reflecting a more broad-based firming in manufacturing sector activity." Dudley Isn't Worried About Inflation. The NY Fed's William Dudley spoke about monetary policy in Puerto Rico on Tuesday evening. "We think we can get the unemployment rate considerably lower and still not have an inflation problem," he said. "We also don't have inflation at a level consistent with price stability." KFC Says It Was A Hoax. Outrage ensued on reports that a disfigured 3-year-old girl and her family were asked to leave a KFC restaurant in Mississippi. However, KFC is now saying it was all a hoax. "After the alleged incident was reported to us, two investigations took place, including one by an independent investigator," said a KFC spokesman in a statement emailed to Reuters. "Neither revealed any evidence that the incident occurred, and we consider the investigation closed." FREE AppDownload
Netflix promotional photo via SeriableToday, the research division at FilmL.A., a not-for-profit film office specializing in coordinating permits for on-location shooting in Los Angeles, released a new report detailing L.A.'s struggle to hold onto TV projects. The study states that the “2013/2014 development cycle saw New York (with 24 drama projects retained) dethrone Los Angeles (with 19 drama projects retained) to become North America’s most attractive location for one-hour TV pilot production.” Basically, L.A. is losing more and more pilots to other cities. “Overall, Los Angeles retained only 90 projects (19 one-hour dramas and 71 half-hour comedies) out of 203 tracked during the ‘13/’14 development cycle, yielding a 44 percent pilot production share. Last year, L.A.’s pilot production share was 52 percent, and six years earlier, a commanding 82 percent.” FilmL.A. President Paul Audley stated that “Losing television pilots – and then series – to other North American competitors leads to the destruction of steady, well-paying California jobs.”  In total, there were 91 drama pilots produced outside of Los Angeles, which is a record number.  The report, which is fascinating and definitely worth a read, also mentions that more shows skipped traditional pilot testing and went “straight-to-series” in this development cycle than ever before, partially thanks to new, untraditional release models put forth by Netflix and other online streaming services.  Netflix By the end of the year, Netflix will have a total of eleven original series and seven more are already in development to be released in 2015. Netflix’s popular series “House of Cards” is filmed in Maryland, while “Orange is The New Black” and the upcoming Marvel “Daredevil” series are shot in New York, and according to the report, “The lost opportunity to the California economy from just these three Netflix series approaches $475 million.” FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Aly SongThe head of a $2.0-billion Chinese copper producer fell to his death from a building, the firm announced Wednesday, and a state-run newspaper said he committed suicide following corruption allegations. The chairman of state-owned Tongling Nonferrous Metals Group, Wei Jianghong, died on Tuesday after falling off a building, the company said in a statement. A string of officials have killed themselves in recent months, with speculation linking some to a crackdown on graft launched by President Xi Jinping after he took office last year. State-run media said Wei jumped from a hotel owned by the company in Tongling, the city in the eastern province of Anhui where it has its headquarters. The China Business News quoted a source as saying the incident might involve corruption since disciplinary authorities had initiated an investigation involving Tongling. Tongling's profits have declined in recent years due to the sluggish world economy and slower domestic demand, reports said. Its net profit for 2013 slumped 38 percent year-on-year to 573 million yuan ($92 million), according to an exchange filing. Shares of Tongling, listed on the Shenzhen stock exchange, were down more than four percent on Wednesday afternoon after the announcement, but its market capitalization was still 12.7 billion yuan. Tongling said authorities were investigating the incident and the board had appointed vice chairman Yang Jun as acting chairman. It added company operations were normal. In April the deputy chief of the Chinese government agency that fields grievances from citizens, Xu Ye'an, killed himself in his Beijing office although the details surrounding his death remain unclear. State media also reported that Li Wufeng, deputy director of China's government information department, "fell to death", also in April.  Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersSold homes are seen in the southwest area of PortlandNEW YORK (Reuters) - Applications for U.S. home mortgages fell last week as both purchase and refinancing applications dipped, an industry group said on Wednesday. The Mortgage Bankers Association said its seasonally adjusted index of mortgage application activity, which includes both refinancing and home purchase demand, fell 1.0 percent in the week ended June 20. The MBA's seasonally adjusted index of refinancing applications fell 0.9 percent, while the gauge of loan requests for home purchases, a leading indicator of home sales, fell 1.2 percent. Fixed 30-year mortgage rates averaged 4.33 percent in the week, down 3 basis points from 4.36 percent the week before. The survey covers over 75 percent of U.S. retail residential mortgage applications, according to MBA.   (Reporting by Caroline Valetkevitch) FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia Commons/Peretz PartenskyYEKATERINBURG Russia (Reuters) - Viktor Livshits will never forget May 9, 1945, the day he first laid eyes on Uralmash, a giant factory making tanks and other heavy machinery that has for decades symbolized Russia's industrial might. "I stood on a tank. The square was full of people. Then my father took me to the factory. Past us there drove tanks, self-propelled guns, cannon," he reminisces, waving a hand towards First Five-Year Plan Square in front of the factory. Livshits was 4 years old on that day when the Soviet Union celebrated victory over Nazi Germany. He went on to spend half a century working at Uralmash, following his father, who headed tank production there in World War Two. Now 73, he is devoting his retirement to a campaign to save the famous plant, as a severe economic downturn, exacerbated by threats of Western sanctions over Ukraine, takes a heavy toll on Russia's industrial heartland. The story of Uralmash - one of the first major enterprises to be sold off during the chaotic privatization of the 1990s, but effectively renationalized under President Vladimir Putin in the 2000s - is in many ways a metaphor for the whole country. "The fate of the factory and the fate of the country are as one!" proclaims a billboard at the factory entrance, which carries a photo collage of the plant's proud 81-year history. The display is a reminder that, in its glory days, Uralmash built most of the heavy machinery that powered Russia's industrialization - from oil drilling rigs to giant electric turbines to huge excavators for mines. But now, after years of grappling with vanishing markets and outdated equipment, Uralmash is struggling to survive. Ask what went wrong, and most locals begin the story long ago, often referring to the "perestroika" reforms of the last Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev, and the "wild" privatization of Russia's first post-Communist leader Boris Yeltsin. It's a convoluted saga that also involves freewheeling oligarchs, mafia hitmen and Kremlin intrigues. But if matters at Uralmash have recently come to a head - provoking factory veterans, workers and local sympathizers to campaign to "save" the cherished factory - that is also a sign of the times in Putin's third term as president. Russia's economy, which grew by around 7 percent a year during his early years in power, is officially forecast at 0.5 percent this year, with the threat of stiffer Western sanctions over Ukraine contributing to an unwillingness to invest. The trend is bad news for Uralmash, which no longer makes tanks but still makes everything from mining equipment to metal presses to oil drills, mainly for the Russian market but also for export. Travel out to the gritty industrial suburb of Ordzhonikidze in the north of Ekaterinburg, home of the Uralmash factory, and it's apparent that the area has seen better days. Grimy apartment blocks covered with graffiti line the dusty bus route to First Five-Year Plan Square and the Uralmash plant. Posters for a modeling agency have been plastered nearby, suggesting that some locals may dream of better things. "They've already ruined Uralmash," said a worker, who gave his name only as Alexander, emerging from the factory gates and scurrying past the nearby statue of Grigory Ordzhonikizde, Stalin's industry minister who ordered Uralmash's construction in the early 1930s. At the foot of the statue, someone has plastered stickers depicting Russia's current Communist leader Gennady Zyuganov, with the slogan: "We'll make them give back what was stolen!" For factory veterans such as Livshits, reminiscing on a bench by Ordzhonikidze's statue, the decline of Uralmash from its Soviet glory days is a national disgrace. "It's simply offensive, for such a factory," he said. "Why is the factory important? During the Great Patriotic War, one in four tanks that participated in battle was either made at Uralmash, or with armor form Uralmash. That's 25,000 tanks!" Before the collapse of the Soviet Union, Uralmash produced 330,000 tonnes of products each year, Livshits said. This year it will be around 13,000. The workforce, meanwhile, has slumped from around 50,000 in Soviet times to just around 5,000 today. "Former colleagues would stop me in the street, even in the sauna, and would say to me: 'Viktor Sergeyevich, I have no work! They've had to lay people off. Help!'" Uralmash management declined requests to be interviewed, but Pavel Dorokhin, a Communist lawmaker for the Sverdlovsk region, said around 35,000 jobs depended on supplying parts to Uralmash. "And then there are the families, the wives and children," he said. "Taken all together, it's 100,000. There would be a social explosion if it all closed." Many in Yekaterinburg blame Uralmash's woes on Kakha Bendukidze, a freewheeling tycoon who bought the plant cheaply in Russia's sweeping privatization program of the 1990s. Bendukidze, who went on to spearhead economic reforms in his native Georgia, was recently appointed economic adviser to Ukraine's new president, Petro Poroshenko. Uralmash's prospects weren't helped by the killing of its director Oleg Belonenko by unknown gunmen in 2000. One theory pins the blame on a local mafia group, also called Uralmash, that was allegedly attempting to extort money from the plant. "After the murder, nobody wanted to be general director and get a bullet in the head. Bendukidze was afraid to come here any more," said Livshits. Bendukidze sold out in 2006 to Gazprombank, an indirectly state-controlled bank in a move that was seen by analysts as an effective renationalization. Gazprombank is seen as being charged by Putin's government with finding a solution to industrial problem cases. Gazprombank did not reply to questions from Reuters. Today, many critics in Yekaterinburg see Bendukidze as a corporate raider out to make an easy buck. Bendukidze defends his role and his strategy of selling off many factory assets - instead pointing a finger of blame at the current owner, Gazprombank, for trying to turn back the clock. "My idea was that we should focus on its core strength, core competence and should divest anything else ... This process is the only way that such companies can survive," he told Reuters. Independent analysts say that while repeated changes in ownership and management have exacerbated matters, Uralmash was bound to face huge challenges as it struggled to reinvent itself for a market economy. "The factory was built in the 1930s. Then there was an entirely different economy: a planned economy," said Konstantin Selyanin, a local economist. "For many enterprises, re-equipping demands gigantic investments, which private investors didn't have." Russia's protracted economic slowdown, coupled with the failures of private involvement, have triggered an increasing tendency to blame unfettered market capitalism, and to resort once more to increased state involvement. For many of those campaigning to restore Uralmash to its former glory, Gazprombank, which is trying to rebuild Uralmash by reacquiring subsidiaries that had been sold off, represents a change for the better. Dorokhin, the Communist deputy, is encouraged by a promise to invest an additional billion rubles ($29 million) in a new digital production facility to build rollers for steel mills. He sees big prospects for Uralmash products in India, a traditional market in Soviet times, and other Asian markets. Dorokhin is one of the main authors of a law on industrial policy, recently adopted by the Russian government despite misgivings from liberal ministers, under which Russia will provide subsidies and other benefits to industrial companies that are seen as strategically important. Governmental opposition to the new law crumbled, he said, after Putin backed the plan following meetings with Zyuganov. "There will be elements of the planned economy," Dorokhin said approvingly. "As with the First or Second Five-Year Plans under Stalin, we will plan: each year we should produce this or that much of each product, build this or that enterprise." But for Konstantin Selyanin, the local economist, the effective renationalization of Uralmash via Gazprombank symbolizes the overall trend under Putin for the state to turn back the market reforms of the 1990s. "The problems of Uralmash are a good illustration of the general problems of the economic model that has existed for the last seven or eight years, when the emphasis has been placed on state companies and on building up national champions," he said. "So far, it isn't very successful." (Additional reporting by Margarita Antidze; Editing by Kevin Liffey and Anna Willard) FREE AppDownload
Twitter/EsuranceplsLONDON (Reuters) - As tension over inequality simmers, persistent cash hoarding by multinationals and the super-rich may be one measure of how seriously attempts at remedial action are being taken. The political heat over soaring income and wealth gaps in the United States, Britain and much of the developing world has built up since the credit shock and global recession of 2008/09. Even though protest groups such as Occupy failed to gain traction much beyond 2011, the evidence of inequality continuing to balloon so soon after such a seismic economic bust has refocussed the minds of economists, politicians and voters. There's little doubt the richer are getting much richer. Last week's annual CapGemini/RBC survey of investors worldwide showed the number of households with more than $1 million in investable wealth rose almost 15 percent to 13.7 million in the year through 2013. Their total wealth rose almost 14 percent to $53 trillion, it estimated. Both the ranks of the rich and their collective wealth have now risen 60 percent since 2008, the survey showed, and those fortunes are expected to rise a further 22 percent by 2016. By contrast, world economic output has expanded just 16 percent over the past five years and the slow, sub-par recovery and subdued wage growth for most workers sharpens the political divide. Near zero interest rates and money printing designed to kickstart credit growth and job creation helped stabilize the situation but has had the side-effect of inflating the financial assets and real estate holdings of the richest even further. What's more, anger has risen over a disproportionate hit taken by ordinary taxpayers for repairing government finances even as corporate and wealth tax rises were largely eschewed. Policies adopted since the 'Great Recession' have clearly done little to balance the scales on personal wealth. And International Monetary Fund analysis shows more countries have cut corporate taxes over recent years than raised them - even as most countries have increased personal taxes. But with U.S. mid-term elections due in November and UK parliamentary elections early next year, political pressure is mounting again. Cutting through the rhetoric is tricky, but some feel we may be on the cusp of action. "Consumers and workers are paying far more than corporations to finance governments’ austerity efforts," said Luca Paolini, strategist at Swiss wealth manager Pictet. "This is politically unsustainable and is sure to reverse."   HOARDING If that view's widely held, you would imagine those with the money are already braced for it. And one glaring and enduring observation of the post-crisis years is the extent of cash hoarding by large companies and the wealthy. This at least partly reveals the level of anxiety among these groups that changes to taxation or income regimes are only a matter of time. Estimates of the amount of cash that non-financial U.S., European and Japanese companies are sitting on is as high as $5 trillion - twice the levels of 10 years ago as capital expenditure and investment has largely seized up. A pick up in mergers and acquisitions this year is modest by comparison with bloated balance sheets. Moreover, the CapGemini/RBC survey showed rich investors still stored a whopping 27 percent of their expanding portfolios in cash or equivalents through last year - more than they held in any other asset class and twice pre-crisis levels. With cash now effectively losing money when adjusted for inflation, that's an extraordinary level of caution. But for many it may be a price worth paying for keeping money highly liquid and geographically mobile if a domestic tax hammer is about to come down or profit margins are to be squeezed. Many economists reckon the fear is simply due the dire state of the world economy and expectation of paltry growth for years to come. Others reckon it's exaggerated due to the overvaluation of conventional assets from super-easy monetary policy and quantitative easing everywhere. Yet worries about a political backlash to stabilize inequality are intertwined with growth worries. Although IMF studies show higher taxes and redistribution are generally benign in terms of growth impact, uncertainty about how those policies are implemented and "future game rules" holds back investment today, said SEB chief economist Robert Berqvist. With the 'effective' tax rate paid by U.S. firms having fallen some 18 percentage points below the statutory 37 percent rate, there may be good reason to fret on that score. Paolini at Pictet pointed to G20-led initiatives to clamp down on aggressive corporate tax avoidance - such as recent 'tax inversion' M&amp;A activity in which U.S. pharma firms target Irish-based peers to avail themselves of super-low Irish taxes. And a forecast rise in the effective U.S. corporate tax rate by 3 percentage points over the coming years as a result of these measures could lower profit growth by one percent a year, he estimates. To that, add pressure for income rebalancing that will crimp corporate profits further. Higher minimum wage proposals are on the table in the United States, Britain and Germany and could eventually halt the decade-long decline in real U.S. wages. The ultimate pincer movement by the authorities would be to find ways to tax unproductive cash holdings themselves. Zero interest rates are already doing much of the work on that score and negative rates are no longer taboo. But the fact that cash continues to pile up regardless shows the depth of the concern that change is at hand. "Business conditions are about to become harsher," Paolini said.   (Additional reporting by Francesco Canepa and Nigel Stephenson; Editing by Ruth Pitchford) FREE AppDownload
It's been an interesting couple of days in Dubai. Yesterday the stock market crashed, falling over 6%, after being down by over 8% during the day. The country is witness to an insanely hot real estate boom, but a major construction company has reportedly been running into trouble, which is something that's shaken the entire market. Anyway, today at least there's snapback. The market is currently surging 5%. Here's the chart, from Bloomberg: Bloomberg FREE AppDownload
The economy is bad in France. Earlier this week, the Flash PMI report for June for France showed ongoing economic deterioration at a pace far worse than its Eurozone peers. That bad news continued today with the latest results from the Insee survey, which tries to measure the French business climate (via Theodore Stanton). By looking in the right column here, you can see deterioration in every category. Insee And here's the visual showing how any fledgling economic momentum is fading. Insee So yeah, it's bad. France underperformed Germany significantly during the crisis. And now that the recovery phase is on, it's not outperforming like many of the peripheral countries are. Here's the take from Pantheon Economics: Today’s INSEE release confirms the weak PMI reading released earlier this week. The drop in the headline manufacturing index is not catastrophic, but it is concerning that we are seeing renewed signs of weaker momentum without having seen any recovery at all. The manufacturing sentiment index is now below its long term average, and the INSEE’s own turning point indicator has reversed sharply into negative territory. The bottom line for the economy is that the second quarter is unlikely to offer any positive surprises despite growth being unchanged—0.0% quarter-on-quarter—in the first three months of the year. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTOKYO (Reuters) - Japan's government and top carmakers, including Toyota Motor Corp, are joining forces to bet big that they can speed up the arrival of the fuel cell era: a still costly and complex technology that uses hydrogen as fuel and could virtually end the problem of automotive pollution. Toyota, the world's biggest carmaker, unveiled its first mass-market fuel-cell car on Wednesday, which is due to go on sale in Japan by end-March next year priced at around 7 million yen ($68,600). A U.S. and European launch will follow in the summer.Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's growth strategy, announced the day before, also included a call for subsidies and tax breaks for buyers of fuel-cell vehicles, relaxed curbs on hydrogen fuel stations and other steps under a road map to promote hydrogen energy. That will bolster plans by Toyota and Honda Motor Co, Japan's No.3, to start fuel-cell vehicle sales in 2015. "This is the start of a long challenge to make hydrogen a standard feature in society and to make the fuel-cell vehicle an ordinary automobile," Toyota Executive Vice-President Mitsuhisa Kato told a news conference. With two of Japan's three biggest automakers going all in on fuel cells, the country's long-term future as an automotive powerhouse could now hinge largely on the success of what they hope will be a key technology of the next few decades. The auto sector carries special significance in Japan, providing nearly one in 11 jobs and about one-fifth of its manufacturing output. It is also one of the few big industries where Japan remains at the pinnacle of global competition after losing much of its edge in electronics and elsewhere. Japan's ruling party is pushing for ample subsidies and tax breaks for consumers to bring the cost of a fuel-cell car down to about $20,000 by 2025. The government is also aiming to create 100 hydrogen fuel stations by end-March 2016 in urban areas where the vehicles will be launched initially. "To stay globally competitive, Japan cannot afford to lag behind in this area," said Yuriko Koike, a former environment minister who heads a group of ruling party lawmakers advocating hydrogen energy.   LONG HAUL A fuel cell vehicle, running on electricity from cells that combine hydrogen with oxygen, emits only water vapor and heat. Hydrogen fuel production from hydrocarbons emits some carbon dioxide, although Japan hopes to implement carbon-free production by 2040. Hydrogen vehicles can run five times longer than battery-operated electric cars, and their tanks can be filled in just a few minutes compared with recharging times from 30 minutes up to several hours for electric cars. The challenges for fuel cell cars nevertheless remain daunting and growth could be slow, especially given the expense of building up an infrastructure of hydrogen fuel stations and the likely reliance on subsidies until costs come down. "Even after 10 years, fuel cell cars are likely to be less than 10 percent of the Japanese market," said Ryuichiro Inoue, a professor at Tokyo City University and an expert in the auto industry. "This isn't a strategy to talk about for the next 10 years, but for the next 20 to 30 years." Even Toyota only expects tens of thousands of fuel-cell cars to be sold annually a decade from now as the new technology will need time to gain traction. The government's commitment to hydrogen vehicles in its growth strategy, however, shows how far the technology has come since Toyota and Honda began leasing fuel cell-powered cars in Japan 12 years ago. Japan had set out bold predictions, later abandoned as unrealistic, of putting 5 million fuel cell cars on the road by 2020. Engineers have since overcome a variety of technological challenges, including cold-weather ignition glitches due to water freezing and the need to reduce loadings of platinum - the precious metal that fuel cells use as a catalyst. Rivals such as South Korea's Hyundai Motor Co and Daimler AG are also producing fuel-cell vehicles, but Japan believes it will have an advantage after the UN adopted many of its proposals for global fuel-cell safety standards last June. This means it can avoid major changes to fuel cell specifications for exports, keeping costs low. Toyota, which astounded rivals 17 years ago by developing the Prius hybrid car in barely two years and then swallowed initial losses to establish its dominance in the segment, is confident of its prospects in fuel cells. "When we first introduced the Prius, there was little way we could make a profit and our vision was longer-term, for the second- and third-generation models," Toyota managing officer Satoshi Ogiso told Reuters in March. "Unless you are willing to accept losses initially, it's not possible to increase sales."     (Editing by Edmund Klamann and Rachel Armstrong) FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsBasking SharkMarkets are getting reacquainted with this thing called selling. So far, the downside hasn't been particularly dramatic, but it's still worth noting. Yesterday the Dow fell over 100 points.  Today, French stocks are down 0.75%, Germany is down 0.66%, and the UK is off 0.65%. The Nikkei slipped 0.7%. US futures are off a bit today. The big event during the day will be the latest revision to Q1 US GDP. It's expected to be sharply negative. Because it's so backwards looking, and because the data has come back so strongly in Q2, it's unlikely the report will be market moving, but it will be closely picked over by economists. FREE AppDownload
