Ramin Talaie / GettyBill Gates recaptures his spot at the top of the Forbes Billionaires List.Forbes is out with its annual list of the wealthiest people on the planet, and there are some shakeups in the top 20. Microsoft founder Bill Gates reclaimed his spot at the top of the list, adding $9 billion to his fortune in the past year.  Tech tycoons continued to dominate the top 20, with Amazon founder Jeff Bezos and Google co-founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin appearing on the list. Others are familiar faces, but saw a substantial increase in wealth over the previous year. You can see Forbes' complete billionaires list here; we're taking a closer look at the top 20. FREE AppDownload
AP President Barack Obama is releasing his budget for fiscal year 2015 Tuesday and there's one part Wall Street won't like. The White House sent out a preview of the budget Monday that reveals Obama is still trying to kill the "Carried Interest" tax loophole, which allows hedge fund and private equity profits to be taxed at a lower rate. According to the White House preview, this and other changes in the budget are designed to help the middle class.  "The President’s budget will show in real terms the choices we can make to expand economic opportunity and strengthen the middle class, like closing unfair tax loopholes so we can invest in the things we need to help the middle class and those striving to get into it, grow our economy, and provide economic opportunity for every American," the preview said. "It invests in infrastructure, job training, and preschool; cuts taxes for working Americans while closing tax loopholes enjoyed by the wealthy and well-connected; and reduces the deficit." Obama has unsuccessfully tried to end the carried interest loophole in prior budgets.  This is the second recent proposal to kill the carried interest loophole. Last week, Rep. Dave Camp, the Republican chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, released a tax reform plan that included ending the loophole. Additionally, Camp's plan included a proposal to raise taxes on firms holding over $500 billion in assets. Camp's plan sparked reports of a possible Wall Street revolt against the Republican Party. An industry insider later told Business Insider those rumors were exagerrated, but only because financial firms knew Camp's proposal had little chance of reaching a vote on the House floor.  Obama's budget contains several other notable changes in addition to the plan to end the carried interest loophole. The president would also expand the Earned Income Tax Credit and Child Tax Credit. Obama's plan to grow the EITC focuses on childless workers. Currently, the EITC largely benefits people who are married and have children. The White House said these changes would be funded by "closing tax loopholes that let high-income professionals avoid the income and payroll taxes everyone else has to pay." The budget also proposes expanding the Child and Dependent Care Tax Credit. According to the White House, this would give "about 1.7 million families" an "average tax cut of more than $600." Obama is also proposing the establishment of automatic IRAs to encourage workers to save for their retirement. The White House said this program would cause "about 13 million workers" to begin contributing to auto-IRAs. Lastly, Obama is proposing several plans aimed at students paying for college. The White House said his budget would permanently extend the American Opportunity Tax Credit, "simplify" taxes for the recipients of Pell Grants, and would exclude "student loan forgiveness from taxation for borrowers who have made student loan payments for many years under an income-related repayment plan." FREE AppDownload
For the US and other developed economies right now, it’s “all quiet on the inflation front.” Perhaps too quiet. That’s why we believe it’s time to get real about inflation and the investing opportunities that may well develop in the next several years.  In 2013, falling global inflation expectations and weaker emerging-market growth forecasts caused a hefty decline in most real-asset investments—natural resource stocks, commodity futures and real estate stocks. As real assets underperformed stocks, inflation-indexed bonds such as Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities (TIPS) underperformed their nominal Treasury counterparts.Both real assets and TIPS are relatively inexpensive today. That, however, may not be enough incentive to buy them now, since collective market expectations see little chance for rising inflation in the near term. Some may argue that deflation or disinflation has a greater likelihood. But with all the monetary easing of the past few years, the scrappy resilience of the global economic recovery and developed-world central banks looking for some economic heat, isn’t there even the chance of inflation?We think it’s wise to be prepared, which is why we see real assets and TIPS as appealing opportunities now—and always. After all, asset classes have a way of shifting from winner to loser (and back again) more quickly than expected, and these asset classes could move extremely quickly if inflation expectations increase.If you compare historical annual returns for a balanced basket of commodity and real estate investments with the S&amp;P 500 over the past four decades, you’ll see some extraordinary shifts in over- and underperformance. Let’s look at 1975–1976 and 1997–1998—two time periods when real assets got pummeled as they did last year (display below). The story in 1975 was that inflation collapsed nearly five percentage points (from 12.0% to 7.4%), causing these inflation-sensitive assets to underperform. In 1998, the spotlight was on the extraordinary tech boom, and old-economy businesses like real estate and commodities were just about the most out-of-favor sectors around. The AllianceBernstein BlogAfter each of those periods, real assets posted strong rebounds for the following three- and five-year periods—in conjunction with economic recoveries and the end of declining inflation rates.What about TIPS versus Treasuries? TIPS underperformed last year as US and global inflation expectations fell. Today the breakeven inflation rate on 10-year TIPS is about 2.2%. If inflation exceeds that breakeven rate over the next 10 years, then investors would be better off owning TIPS. For some historical perspective, the inflation rate has averaged roughly 2.4% over the last 10 years and 2.6% over the last 20 years. So, the current 2.2% breakeven looks attractive.Will we get rising inflation this year? Next year? Maybe, maybe not. But when inflation does eventually pick up, it could potentially cause a good deal of harm to traditional portfolios of stocks and bonds, both of which underperform during times of rising inflation. Therefore, we think investors would be wise to include an allocation to real assets and TIPS that can protect their portfolios from the negative impacts of inflation.   While TIPS provide appropriate inflation protection for investors’ fixed-income allocation, they don’t have enough inflation sensitivity to protect investors’ stock allocation. That’s a job for real assets. Therefore, we feel it makes sense for investors to add a combination of TIPS and real assets to their retirement portfolios. An additional benefit of blending these asset classes together is that the combination will be less volatile than using real assets alone. In any case, we feel that inflation-sensitive assets should probably not dominate a portfolio. They should play a modest, complementary role that helps the longtime purchasing power of a portfolio fend off inflation’s ill effects. This article originally appeared at The Alliance Bernstein Blog.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Investors Still Doubt The Rebound In Earnings Growth (BMO Capital Markets)  Investors distracted by all the noise are ignoring an important trend, writes Brian Belski. "Earnings growth has staged a nice rebound in recent quarters," he writes. "For instance, 4Q13 year-over-year quarterly growth is tracking at 21.3% (with 93% of S&amp;P 500 having reported), its highest level since 4Q10."  "Nonetheless, many clients we speak with remain skeptical regarding earnings growth, owing to the perception that quarterly EPS estimates have been reduced significantly from the start-to-the-end of the past few reporting periods, which they believe implies a deteriorating earnings outlook.  "…Truth be told, earnings revisions are an important part of our investment analysis process and we pay close attention to trends within the data. However, given the recent mood of the markets, we believe that some investors are misinterpreting the signals that earnings revisions are sending." Warren Buffett Has Some Incredibly Specific Advice For Where The Average Investor Should Invest (Business Insider) Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway tries to beat the market. But this is not the path Buffett recommends for the average uninformed investor. From Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway letter to shareholders: "What I advise here is essentially identical to certain instructions I've laid out in my will. One bequest provides that cash will be delivered to a trustee for my wife's benefit. (I have to use cash for individual bequests, because all of my Berkshire shares will be fully distributed to certain philanthropic organizations over the ten years following the closing of my estate.) My advice to the trustee could not be more simple: Put 10% of the cash in short-term government bonds and 90% in a very low-cost S&amp;P 500 index fund. (I suggest Vanguard's.) I believe the trust's long-term results from this policy will be superior to those attained by most investors – whether pension funds, institutions or individuals – who employ high-fee managers." 'Advisors Manage So Much More Than Money' (Vanguard)  Back in 2008-2009 when we saw a bear market in stocks, talk of the death of equities started making the rounds again. But the stellar run in 2013 has seen investors flood back into stocks. Now, we're seeing a lot more volatility in the stock market and that has investors worried again. "It’s tempting to follow the crowd, but this is a period that reinforces the value of discipline," writes Martha King, managing director of Vanguard Financial Advisor Services.  "With the Standard &amp; Poor’s 500 Index up more than 30% last year, now may be the perfect time to review clients’ asset allocations and remind them of the importance of sticking to their plans. Successful advisors manage so much more than money. You manage people and their expectations. When clients are scared about market drops or overly enthusiastic about market increases, you stop them from overreacting and potentially making poor choices." Brokers Aren't Fans Of FINRA's Proposal To Gather Client Data (Investment News) A 2013 Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) proposal called Comprehensive Automated Risk Data System (CARDS) has become a top industry concern, reports Dan Jamieson at FA Mag. This system would collect customer trade data "and analyze it to identify churning, pump-and-dump schemes, excessive markups and mutual fund switching. The data would also be used for exams of broker-dealers," reports Jamieson. "The CARDS concept would result in lot of sensitive information about individual customer holdings and [transactions] being kept at one place -- Finra," Ira Hammerman, general counsel at the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association told Jamieson. "That raises both privacy and data [security] concerns,” Hammerman said. “These issues really are top of mind with our members’ customers, the mom and pop investors." Advisor Confidence In The Economy And The Future Of The Stock Market Drops (WealthManagement.com) Advisors optimism on the U.S. economy and markets saw its biggest monthly drop since April 2013, according to Wealthmanagement.com’s latest Advisor Confidence Index. The current state of the economy component of the index fell 4.8% this month, while that of markets in six months was down 2.5%. "The US Stock Market is an area of caution and concern for me. The last decline in the equity markets bottomed in 2009. Historically, US markets have experienced a major decline every 4 years. Cycle theory suggests that advances that extend beyond the norm are usually followed by more forceful declines," Kevin Stockton of Horter Investment Management told WealthManagement.com. FREE AppDownload
BloombergJim O'SullivanBusiness Insider is offering a new feature in our "10 Things You Need To Know Before The Opening Bell" email newsletter where we interview top strategists, economists, and traders to get their thoughts on key market questions. Today's interview is with Jim O'Sullivan, Chief U.S. Economist at High Frequency Economics.  If you sign up for the email, you get to see the Q&amp;As early! Sign up at the bottom. BUSINESS INSIDER: To what extent do you think poor weather has impacted this winter’s economic data? JIM O'SULLIVAN: The weather probably explains most—not necessarily all, but most—of the sudden weakening. More generally, big swings in the raw data make seasonal adjustment challenging at this time of year. The seasonal factors allow for about a 3 million drop in payrolls and a 19% drop in retail sales in January. Meanwhile, the relative stability in jobless claims and confidence suggests that underlying trends have not changed significantly. At 338K, the 4-week average in claims is down slightly from 343K in all of 2013, when payrolls gains averaged 194K per month. Of course, that does not preclude the weather from causing payrolls to be weak again in the February report; the weather was particularly harsh during the sample week.BI: What’s the big story that is not being told now? JO: I think there is still an under-appreciation of the degree to which the downtrend in the unemployment rate has represented a genuine reduction in slack—in large part because of an under-appreciation of the degree to which the drop in the participation rate has been due to secular and structural forces. The economy is not tight in any absolute sense, but it is moving in that direction, with the downtrend in unemployment corroborated by consumer and business surveys. Does this mean the Fed will be tightening this year? No, but it does suggest that the forward guidance for the next few years is too dovish. The bond market will start to look ahead again if and when weather-related weakness is reversed.BI: Are you optimistic about Janet Yellen as Fed chair? JO: I suspect she is under-appreciating the degree to which the downtrend in the unemployment rate has represented genuine tightening of the labor market but I also think she will ultimately respond appropriately when wage pressures become more apparent. She is widely viewed as a dove, but, more accurately, I think she is a big believer in the importance of the unemployment rate in determining inflation. Part of her dovishness now appears to be the view that the unemployment rate has overstated labor market tightening.BI: The stock market is roaring back to all time highs. Do issues in EM not have as big an impact on U.S. markets as people argued a few weeks ago?JO: No, certainly if EM issues are more country-specific than systemic. Indeed, the near-30% rise in the S&amp;P 500 last year was despite a 5% decline in overall EM equities. The late-1990s Asian crisis was a more extreme example, with U.S. equities surging as EM equities collapsed.BI: What’s something you’ll be watching this week and next?JO: A few things. Will the manufacturing ISM index reverse some of last month's plunge? Does the non-manufacturing index hold on to last month's gain? Do claims come back down after the higher weekly reading last week? If payrolls are weak again, do the details suggest weather effects? Is winter over yet? FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Meet the world's luckiest investor. His name is Richard. You've probably never heard of him. Richard has compounded money at 24.55% annualized for the last 30 years, compared to 9.4% for the S&amp;P 500 (SNPINDEX: ^GSPC). That difference is staggering. One dollar invested with Richard 30 years ago would be worth $712 today, versus $15.30 if you invested in the S&amp;P 500. He's only had three down years. Richard has actually outperformed Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway over the past three decades. Morgan Housel Why have you never heard of Richard? Well, his name isn't actually Richard. As far as I know, at least. Richard is the winner of an Excel model I made that generated random investment returns for 65,000 hypothetical investors during the last 30 years. (The model was guided by the boundaries of the market's actual historic returns.)  Let me reiterate: Richard's results are achieved from sheer randomness, the equivalent of throwing darts at a board, or pulling bingo balls out of a cage.  Richard is alive because of a simple law of probability: If you conduct enough experiments, you'll get a few crazy results, thanks to pure randomness. I named our hypothetical world's luckiest investor after Richard Lustig, the real-life man who has won the lottery seven times. There are millions of investors in the world. Many of them are actively trading in and out of stocks, picking what they think are the best investments. With that many investors, we are virtually guaranteed that a few of them -- but just a few -- will be hugely successful over time due to nothing more than random chance. Richard almost certainly exists somewhere. Some of the world's most successful investors are actually just some of the world's luckiest investors. I don't know what Richard's real name is. Maybe it's George Soros, or Peter Lynch, or John Paulson, or David Tepper. We'll never know for sure.  What do you do in this situation? How do you know which investor to follow, to idolize, to learn from, in a world where it's hard to tell who has been successful and who has been lucky? The key to identifying talent versus luck comes down to understanding the difference between process and outcome. As Barry Ritholtz put it last week: Outcome is simply the final score: Who won the game; what numbers came up in a roll of the dice; how high did a stock go. Outcome is the result, regardless of the method used to achieve it. It is not controllable. You can blow on the dice all you want, but whether they come up "seven" is still a function of random luck. Process, on the other hand, is a specific methodology. It is a repeatable approach to any challenge or endeavor, be it construction or medicine or investing. And you can control a process. Buffett made this point decades ago in a speech called, "The Superinvestors of Graham and Doddsville." Say we set up a national coin-flipping contest. By sheer chance, more than 200 people in the country will correctly call 20 coin flips in a row. Even if the coin flips were done by orangutans, Buffett pointed out, this is what you'd expect. But what if you found out that of those 200 successful orangutan coin-flippers, half came from the same zoo in Nebraska? Then you'd realize what was going on was more than random chance. Buffett stated: I think you will find that a disproportionate number of successful coin-flippers in the investment world came from a very small intellectual village that could be called Graham-and-Doddsville. A concentration of winners that simply cannot be explained by chance can be traced to this particular intellectual village. That intellectual village was value investing, influenced by Ben Graham and David Dodd. What made value investors legitimate success stories was not just their superior returns. It was their rational process of buying companies with high returns on capital for less than liquidation value and holding them for longer than most investors were willing to. Your definition of a rational investment process may be different than mine. But when I hear of investors successfully predicting a market crash by overlaying a chart from the 1920s, or day trading penny stocks, or using a protractor on a candlestick stock chart, I get suspicious. When you find yourself asking, "How can they make that much money doing that?," remember Richard.  Not realizing the difference between luck and skill puts you on a road to ruin. When returns are the result of luck, the person who earned them is going to assume whatever absurd technique he or she used is pure skill, and is likely to keep using that technique with a false sense of confidence. That's dangerous, because luck quickly reverts to the mean -- if I kept my Excel model running long enough, Richard will eventually come crashing back to Earth. That's why process matters so much more than outcome. Investors shouldn't just focus on returns. What you want is a rational process that offers the highest chances of success over long periods of time without relying on luck. Earning a lower return than your lucky friend Richard shouldn't bother you if he's flipping a coin or day trading penny stocks. Your rational investing process is far more likely to win out in the long run. "We have no control over outcomes, but we can control the process," Michael Mauboussin once wrote. "Of course, outcomes matter, but by focusing our attention on process, we maximize our chances of good outcomes."  Check back every Tuesday and Friday for Morgan Housel's columns on finance and economics. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Rick WilkingWarren BuffettWarren Buffett turned 84 years old on Saturday. And even at that age, the billionaire "Oracle of Omaha" continues to be involved in some of the biggest investment plays in the world. Buffett is undoubtedly the most successful investor in history. His investment philosophy is no secret, and he has repeatedly shared bits and pieces of it through a lifetime of quips and memorable quotes. His brilliance is timeless, and we find ourselves referring back to them over and over again. We compiled a few of Buffett's best quotes from his TV appearances, newspaper op-eds, magazine interviews, and of course his annual letters. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Konstantin ChernichkinA man sits on a chair in the house of Ukraine's former prosecutor general Viktor Pshonka in the village of Gorenichy outside Kiev, February 24, 2014.Tensions on the Ukraine-Russia border have the global financial markets in risk-off mode. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
 The last time I checked, there was a list of countries that the USA had sent troops, armed ships, and aircraft into recently, and for reasons similar to Russia’s in Crimea: the former Yugoslavia, Somalia, Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya, none of them even anywhere close to American soil. I don’t remember Russia threatening confrontations with the USA over these adventures. The phones at the White House and the congressional offices ought to be ringing off the hook with angry US citizens objecting to the posturing of our elected officials. There ought to be crowds with bobbing placards in Farragut Square reminding the occupant of 1400 Pennsylvania Avenue how ridiculous this makes us look. The saber-rattlers at The New York Times were sounding like the promoters of a World Wrestling Federation stunt Monday morning when they said in a Page One story: The Russian occupation of Crimea has challenged Mr. Obama as has no other international crisis, and at its heart, the advice seemed to pose the same question: Is Mr. Obama tough enough to take on the former K.G.B. colonel in the Kremlin? Are they out of their chicken-hawk minds over there? It sounds like a ploy out of the old Eric Berne playbook: Let’s You and Him Fight. What the USA and its European factotums ought to do is mind their own business and stop issuing idle threats. They set the scene for the Ukrainian melt-down by trying to tilt the government their way, financing a pro-Euroland revolt, only to see their sponsored proxy dissidents give way to a claque of armed neo-Nazis, whose first official act was to outlaw the use of the Russian language in a country with millions of long-established Russian-speakers. This is apart, of course, from the fact Ukraine had been until very recently a province of Russia’s former Soviet empire. Secretary of State John Kerry — a haircut in search of a brain — is winging to Kiev tomorrow to pretend that the USA has a direct interest in what happens there. Since US behavior is so patently hypocritical, it raises the pretty basic question: what are our motives? I don’t think they amount to anything more than international grandstanding — based on the delusion that we have the power and the right to control everything on the planet, which is based, in turn, on our current mood of extreme insecurity as our own ongoing spate of bad choices sets the table for a banquet of consequences. America can’t even manage its own affairs. We ignore our own gathering energy crisis, telling ourselves the fairy tale that shale oil will allow us to keep driving to WalMart forever. We paper over all of our financial degeneracy and wink at financial criminals. Our infrastructure is falling apart. We’re constructing an edifice of surveillance and social control that would make the late Dr. Joseph Goebbels turn green in his grave with envy while we squander our dwindling political capital on stupid gender confusion battles. The Russians, on the other hand, have every right to protect their interests along their own border, to protect the persons and property of Russian-speaking Ukrainians who, not long ago, were citizens of a greater Russia, to discourage neo-Nazi activity in their back-yard, and most of all to try to stabilize a region that has little history and experience with independence. They also have to contend with the bankruptcy of Ukraine, which may be the principal cause of its current crack-up. Ukraine is deep in hock to Russia, but also to a network of Western banks, and it remains to be seen whether the failure of these linked obligations will lead to contagion throughout the global financial system. It only takes one additional falling snowflake to push a snow-field into criticality. Welcome to the era of failed states. We’ve already seen plenty of action around the world and we’re going to see more as resource and capital scarcities drive down standards of living and lower the trust horizon. The world is not going in the direction that Tom Friedman and the globalists thought. Anything organized at the giant scale is now in trouble, nation-states in particular.  The USA is not immune to this trend, whatever we imagine about ourselves for now. Read more posts on Kunstler.com » FREE AppDownload
AP PhotoForbes' annual "World's Billionaires List" is out for 2014 — and we've rounded up the richest in the financial and investments industries. Some of these people will be familiar to you (i.e. Warren Buffett and George Soros) and some of them prefer to stay in the shadows, like Taiwan's Tsai Wan-Tsai (he's a huge name in Taiwanese finance). According to the list, roughly two-thirds of the billionaires built their own fortunes, 13% inherited them and 21% have been adding on to fortunes they received. That means you could probably still make it on the list yourself, right? FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Mike CasseseU.S. automakers reported vehicle sales for the month of February today. Total annualized vehicle sales came in at 15.27 million, a rise from last month's print but less than the 15.4 million expected. Chrysler Group reported vehicle sales up 11%, Bloomberg reports. Economists were expecting 8.8%. GM sales fell 1%. Economists were expecting a 7.7% drop. Ford dropped 6.1%, worse than the 5.3% consensus estimate. And Toyota fell 4.3%, the call was for -2.5%. "Mid-month industry reports in January saw sales rising to near a 15.8 million unit annual pace from 15.3 million in December, but instead bad late month weather resulted in a slight decline to 15.2 million," Morgan Stanley's Ted Wieseman wrote clients ahead of the report. "Weather disruptions continued into the first part of February, but improvement moving into Presidents Day weekend helped stabilize retail sales, and a rebound in fleet sales that were disrupted by weather in January is expected to provide a boost to the overall selling rate." FREE AppDownload
foursquare, Sam H.For years Per Se has ruled over the New York City restaurant scene as one of the most coveted dining experiences in town. Foodies scrimp and save to head there at least once, like a pilgrim heading to Mecca. Frankly, if you're going to drop $620 on a prix fixe dinner for two you expect the experience to be other worldly. Now Eater reports that Per Se has been taken down to earth thanks to some glaring health violations. The restaurant now has a 'grade pending' rating. Something no one would ever expect from chef Thomas Keller. To understand how serious this is, you have to understand how restaurant grading works. When NYC restaurants are inspected, they get points for every violation. Every restaurant is given a second chance to get up to snuff if they don't pass their initial inspection. If they pass inspection number two, the first inspection stays off the record. The restaurant received 42 points on February 19th — enough for a 'C' grade.  Violations included "Tobacco use, eating, or drinking from open container in food preparation, food storage or dishwashing area observed," and "Hand washing facility not provided in or near food preparation area and toilet room." Sounds like there's work to do. Check out a screenshot of the Department of Health's website below: NYC Department of Health
    Municipal recycling in New York City is more complicated than the process in any other city in the world. Tom Outerbridge, the General Manager of SIMS Municipal Recycling, explains the intricacies of tackling not just the volume of sorting the city's curbside residential metal, glass and plastic, but also the atypical size of materials on our tour of the newly opened The Sunset Park Material Recovery Facility. The $110 million plant received a $60 million investment from taxpayers, and it is located at the South Brooklyn Marine Terminal. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Rick WilkingJim Walton, Alice Walton, and Rob Walton cheer at the annual shareholders meeting for Walmart in Fayetteville, Ark. All three of them rank among the 14 wealthiest people in the world. Forbes has released its annual list of the world's billionaires.  We sorted through the rankings to find the richest people in retail, from grocery store king Karl Abrecht to fashion designer Miuccia Prada. The heirs to the Wal-Mart fortune continue to have the strongest presence on the billionaires list compared to any other family in the world. Four members of the Walton family rank among the 14 wealthiest billionaires, with their riches amounting to $140 billion — which is more than Bill Gates' and Warren Buffett's wealth combined. Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through hispersonal investment company Bezos Expeditions. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Konstantin ChernichkinUkraine's new Prime Minister Arseny Yatseniuk speaks during a news conference in Kiev February 28, 2014.The Ukrainian interim government, already facing possible bankruptcy and a Russian military incursion into Crimea, now has another challenge to face — Russian demands for owed fuel money. Ukraine receives the vast majority of its natural gas from Russian gas monopoly Gazprom. Last year, Yanukovych managed to secure a deal receiving natural gas from Russia at a discounted rate. Now, Gazprom is considering raising prices on March 1 unless Ukraine pays $1.55 billion for owed fuel costs. Elena Mazneva and Stephen Bierman of Bloomberg write: Ukraine’s interim government led by Arseniy Yatsenyuk can little afford to meet Gazprom’s demand for back payment as it tries to negotiate a $15 billion bailout with the International Monetary Fund. Ukraine, which uses more gas than France, gets more than half its supply from Russia. This is by no means the first time that Russia has leveraged Ukraine's energy supply for greater influence in the country. Since 2006, Russia has shut off the gas twice to Ukraine to pressure the country's domestic and international policy. This wielding of the gas debt is a typical Russian maneuver to put pressure on former Soviet republics, Mikhail Korchemkin, the head of Malvern, an Eastern European Gas analysis group told Bloomberg. If Russia chooses to halt the flow of natural gas to Ukraine, the rest of Europe would also suffer. Large portions of Russian natural gas flow through Ukraine before reaching Europe.  This chart from Agence France-Presse shows the extent of Putin's leverage in Europe: AFP FREE AppDownload
Global markets are in a tizzy today over growing tensions between Russia and Ukraine. Some outlets are reporting that Russian forces in Crimea have told Ukrainians to surrender midnight eastern time on Tuesday or face a military assault. We'll find out soon enough how ultimate that ultimatum really is, but here's what investors can expect if the geopolitical risk becomes a major war. This table from Sam Stovall of S&amp;P Capital IQ (via the WSJ's Steven Russolillo) shows how U.S. stocks have reacted since WWII to major historical events — wars, kerfuffles, assassination attempts, and the like. Stocks tend to sell of but rebound fairly quickly after global conflicts. It only took stocks 30 days to recover after Iraq's 1990 invasion of Kuwait, for example. Deeper systemic problems in the financial system — Lehman in 2008 or the 1987 crash — took longer. Check out the chart: Sam Stovall / S&P Capital IQ FREE AppDownload
Well, so much for the Mt. Gox crash being the end of Bitcoin. The digital currency is on a gigantic tear, as it's zooming toward $700. After Mt. Gox crashed, a lot of folks in the media were talking about how this was the end of Bitcoin, but almost nobody in the Bitcoin community freaked out, and they were right not to freak. Bitcoinwisdom FREE AppDownload
REUTERSTraders speak on the phone and watch a monitor in Moscow's International Currency Exchange (MICEX) August 13, 1998.LONDON (Reuters) - Russia's power play for Ukraine's Crimea region is putting to flight foreign stock and bond investors, who are rattled by the Kremlin's overruling of the country's economic interests in favor of its military ambitions. Russia's half-trillion dollars in central bank reserves mean its creditworthiness is not in doubt, and political risk has always been part of the game while investing in Russia. Yet the move on Crimea, which has earned Moscow global censure and the threat of Western sanctions, will deliver a blow to an already-faltering economy, with U.S. Secretary of States threatening "very serious repercussions". And perhaps more crucially, it will further deepen investor mistrust of Russian institutions. Gary Greenberg, head of emerging markets at Hermes Fund Managers, said a sell-off on Russian financial markets could spiral if uncertainty continues, especially in equities, where foreigners are estimated to hold 70 percent of the market. "The market's assessment is that the Russian government is willing to sacrifice both the country's economy and its international standing in order to bolster its pretensions for a Eurasian union," Greenberg said, referring to Moscow's desire for a customs union of ex-Soviet states. "On the surface this looks like really bad news and it warns of the case for investing in Russia," he said. "It also looks to me that the economy will worsen from here because of this, so some kind of sell-off is appropriate." Moscow stocks have endured the worst bloodbath so far, with a 12 percent plunge on Monday that has wiped almost $60 billion off the market's value. The rouble has plunged to record lows, forcing the central bank to raise interest rates by 1.5 percentage points. Traders estimated it had sold $10 billion on foreign exchange markets. Even Russian sovereign dollar bonds - the most heavily traded emerging debt instruments, according to industry body EMTA - have sold off, their average yield premium to U.S. Treasuries rising 2.6 percentage points on the day. Losses will escalate if Western nations hit Moscow with economic sanctions. Kerry has named asset freezes, visa bans and trade isolation as possible measures. Whatever the outcome of the crisis, Russia stands to lose the most, PIMCO fund manager Francesc Balcells said in a note. Curbs on holding Russian financial assets for instance could make life hard for companies that rely on foreign money for debt and equity funding. Companies now face higher borrowing costs and delays on billions of dollars in loans as foreign banks become more wary of lending. "Russian corporates are among the most active in international debt markets, and Russia has tried hard to open up its local currency debt market to foreign investors while making inroads in improving the investment climate," Balcells said. "A confrontation with the West would erode many of these achievements, driving more foreign investors away." TIMING The moves are all the more damaging because of the timing. First, Russia's economy is in trouble, with growth slowing to under 2 percent, inflation up and investment levels stagnant around 20 percent, well below necessary levels. The outlook for oil, accounting for half of budget revenues, is not optimistic. Second, the past two years have seen investors overcome some of their Russia jitters and pile into rouble bonds, where they now own almost a quarter of the market. They had boosted holdings to 900 billion roubles ($25 billion) by end-2013, a nine-fold increase from early-2012, central bank data shows. Despite emerging market ructions, they have held onto these positions, betting Russia's reserves will keep the rouble firm. Instead, the rouble is one of the worst performing emerging currencies this year, losing 10 percent against the dollar. That unexpected currency weakness could fuel an exodus from foreigners who had not bargained on the losses but the exit may have started even before the latest developments. JPMorgan's monthly investor survey showed funds had swung into an underweight on rouble and local bonds in February, while dollar debt positions were also cut sharply. "My guess is that markets will look for more risk premium in Russia," said Sam Finkelstein, a bond fund manager at Goldman Sachs Asset Management who is neutral on Russia. It may be harder to convince equity investors to stay. Over $2 billion has fled Russian equity funds this year, Morgan Stanley estimates, after 2013 outflows of $4.2 billion. Russian stocks trade around 4.7 times their estimated 2015 earnings, the cheapest across emerging markets, partly because of corporate governance fears and lack of faith in local institutions. In comparison, shares in another troubled emerging market Turkey, trade at more than 7 times earnings. Some funds such as JPMorgan reckon shares are cheap enough to take a punt on, but others such as Greenberg are happy to wait, fearing an economic recession and even full-fledged war. Yet others may just prefer to cut and run. The Kremlin will have to work hard to lure investors back, says Christopher Granville, a long-term Russia watcher and managing director of consultancy Trusted Sources. He draws parallels with the Yukos Affair of 2003 when Putin seized Russia's biggest oil company and jailed its owner Mikhail Khodorkovsky on charges of embezzlement, events that sparked a mass exodus of foreign investors. "At that time Putin decided he had an agenda he was going to pursue regardless of the cost to the economy and investment climate and there were certainly high costs," Granville said. "This time he's decided there is a paramount interest in Ukraine and he is going to take it on the chin. If there is some damage control, Russian assets may bounce back. Alternatively, Putin has stepped over a rubicon and in the latter case Russia will be uninvestable in the near future." ($1 = 35.9357 Russian roubles) (Additional reporting by Carolyn Cohn, Natsuko Waki and Jamie McGeever) FREE AppDownload
YouTube/Austin InstituteSociety is crumbling because women can't keep their legs closed, driving marriage rates to an all-time low — at least that’s what a popular new video claims.Based on research from psychologist Roy Baumeister and created by the Austin Institute (AI) for the Study of Family and Culture, the animation supposedly provides economic insight into the world of sex and relationships. But despite a cutesy veneer, it's bursting with false and blatantly sexist claims, like the ideas that men want sex more, women want marriage more, and the decline of marriage rates will destroy the world. Jezebel's Lindy West already tore apart the video from a feminist point of view. Even beyond that though, the economics of the video are simply wrong. Let's start with the absurd idea that the market for intimate relationships behaves anything like the market for, say, lumber. The video argues that excess supply of sexually active women has lowered the "price" of intercourse to detrimental levels. Rather than paying for sex with marriage like in the past, men must now only hand over a couple dates, or even just a few drinks, for some time under the sheets. But an inversely proportional supply and demand relationship only applies to markets that include the exchange of money, according to economist Marina Adshade, a professor at the Vancouver School of Economics and the author author of "Dollars and Sex." "If I buy something from you, all I have to do is give you currency, and then I can give that currency to a third party if I want. That’s not the way it works in relationships," she told Business Insider. Adshade, instead, compares dating to bartering. People decide to start relationships by identifying a unique combination of traits, like sense of humor, kindness, or a killer body, that they want in a partner. It's a careful trade, not a business transaction. "That makes the market really, really inefficient. Barter economies are difficult because trying to find somebody who is selling what you want to buy and is buying what you have to sell is complicated," she said. The traditional supply and demand model also assumes all "goods" on the market are the same. "The only way the story works is if women are all essentially identical and if women are all offering the same product," Adshade said. YouTube/Austin InstituteLet me be clear, I'm not a new car, a gallon of milk, or a pricey pair of jeans. Labeling women (and men for that matter) as commodities ignores the complexity of human interaction. For the sake of argument though, if women were goods, the market would contain far too much variety for a simple correlation between supply and price. Regardless of the cost, men will always have vastly different preferences — and options. "If the market’s not clearing, it’s not because there’s excess supply — which is what the video is arguing. It’s simply because these markets are unbelievably complicated," Adshade explained. After making the dubious argument that dating follows the laws of supply and demand, the video makes an even more ridiculous case for how women can increase their likelihood of marriage: collusion. Collusion occurs when businesses agree, usually underhandedly or illegally, to control the market by forming a cartel. The video suggests that women should "police" each other to prevent casual sex — as it claims they used to do in the days before birth control. YouTube/Austin Institute  I can't even begin to fathom the implications of women shaming each other into saving sex for well-behaved, marriage-minded men. Even the video artist's interpretation of these sex police looks like Hitler in a mini-skirt. But again, the economic theory swings and misses. "In the market for love and sex, there are literally millions of people. It's a perfectly competitive market. It's not possible to form a cartel. Period. Without or without enforcement," Adshade explained. In other words, even if one group of women tried to restrict access to casual sex, an even larger number of women likely wouldn't participate. This concept of policing also revolves around the assumption that men — and I quote from the video — "only behave as well or as poorly as the women in their lives allow." Apparently, men became brain-dead scoundrels about the same time women turned into livestock, pedaling their own meat in exchange for monogamy. It's also worth noting that Baumeister, the man behind the slut-shaming, isn't even an economist. He's a social psychologist. "The fact that he keeps saying women should collude just shows he's not an economist. Because no economist would ever say that," Adshade said. In short, none of the economic theory in the ironically named "Economics of Sex" video makes valid points. And we haven't even addressed the unfounded scientific and political reasoning in the video. First of all, not all women require a ring on their finger. Researchers at AI might want to sit down for this, but I know single women of all ages not interested, or at least not actively seeking, a husband. Even more shockingly, we want sex, too. The fact that women seek it less often probably has more to do with social constructions than any differences in biology. For example, Daniel Bergner's book "What Do Women Want?" details some of sexual psychologist Meredith Chivers research. In her experiments, women were much more honest about their number of sexual partners when attached to a fake polygraph. Sometimes, the numbers were even higher than male averages. For whatever reason, women tone down their sexuality for public consumption. Similarly, not every man is a horny ruffian avoiding commitment as this doom-filled sacrifice. In fact, men often want serious relationships sooner than women. For example, 8% more men than women report they'll commit to someone they don't love, and 20% more men than women expect to live together after a year of dating, according to Match.com's annual Singles In America study, conducted by biological anthropologist Helen Fisher. The same study also found 8% more men than women report they've experienced love at first sight. Aside from all the wildly incorrect assumptions, AI clearly adopted a conservative agenda for the video. As Brandon Watson of the Austin Chronicle pointed out, Mark Regnerus, the man infamous for research falsely concluding that gay parents harm children, partly runs the Austin Institute for the Study of Family and Culture. These are the guys who thought comparing birth control to pesticides was a swell idea, perhaps the most cringe-worthy part of the video: "How did the market value of sex decline so drastically? Economists often speak of technological shocks that dramatically alter markets. Take pesticides for example," the video explains in a chipper narration, which goes on to discuss how pesticides ruin the environment before bringing the comparison back to birth control. "While the original purpose of the pill was to prevent pregnancy, the data reveals an unanticipated side effect. The pill threw the mating market into disarray." Before the pill, women were too scared of pregnancy to enjoy themselves outside of wedlock. But as soon as oral contraception came on the scene, the video insinuates, horny females starting jumping into bed with anyone with a Y chromosome. And that's when marriage rates started to drop. Beyond the abhorrence of the comparison, only the right-wing patriarchy would trash a technological innovation that supported an age of social and political progress for women. This harmful video preaches a return to the golden-age of chastity, before women possessed the social and financial capital to make decisions, especially regarding sexuality, for themselves. And just as insulting, it relies on illogical economic and scientific research to make that point. And besides, wouldn't you rather live and date in a world where women don't manipulate men into marriage using sex? Let's just admit we all enjoy it and move on. FREE AppDownload
If you're below the age of 30 on Wall Street then you've asked yourself one of the following two questions since the financial crisis turned banking on its head: 1. Where should I work? 2. Should I get my MBA or CFA? Brian Walsh, CEO of alternatives-focused investment management firm Saguenay Strathmore Capital, addressed both in a recent interview with finance career site OneWire. So throw these answers in the pile for your consideration, and give them serious weight. First up, where should you work? "I still think a lot of the new things are in the alternative asset investment business," Walsh told OneWire CEO Skiddy von Stade. "I think different types of financing will be done by more innovative smaller companies. I think that means it's harder for people to find it." As for getting your MBA, Walsh was very candid. He said he isn't completely convinced it's worth it anymore. "It's terrible but I don't think it's worth as much as it used to be. It depends, I think, on what you want to do. If you're really keen on being in the investment business, I think you're better off getting a CFA. I think a CFA will give you more directly related to the investment business. If you're not sure ... then the MBA could really be valuable." Got that? Now start planning. Watch the full interview below and subscribe to the whole series.  FREE AppDownload
btckeychain/flickr It's a little hip right now to pile on and say that Bitcoin is over in light of the Mt. Gox scandal, but it's not over at all. Let's take a couple steps back to reestablish some of the fundamentals on how and why Bitcoin works, and cast aside clunky myths that aren't grounded in reality. 1. Bitcoins are worthless because they aren't backed by anything. False! Just because there's no vault full of gold maintaining Bitcoin's value doesn't mean it's worthless. Bitcoin has value because people say it does. It might sound like a cop-out, but consider the subjective theory of value, which argues that a thing has value when it serves someone's purposes. As an anonymous digital currency, Bitcoin serves a purpose for many people. 2. Bitcoin is illegal. Bitcoin is completely legal in the United States. In March 2013, the U.S. Financial Crimes Enforcement Network issues a new set of guidelines on virtual currency, determining that "a user of virtual currency is not a Money Services Businesses (MSB) under FinCEN's regulations and therefore is not subject to MSB registration, reporting, and record keeping regulations." Simply put — you don't need anyone's permission to use Bitcoin. This post lays out various Bitcoin legalities in countries around the world. 3. Bitcoin is untraceable. Bitcoin is completely traceable by design. These are financial transactions facilitated by open-source software running over the Internet. You should assume none of it is private. Every single Bitcoin transaction that gets made, whether it's to buy illegal drugs on the Silk Road or alpaca wool socks from a Massachusetts farm, is recorded at Blockchain.info. You probably should use Bitcoin the same way you use the Internet at the office — intelligently. 4. Bitcoin has never been so volatile as it has been lately. Yes, Bitcoin's value has seen quite some speed bumps lately. But consider June 2011, when Bitcoin rose 40-fold from $0.75 to $30. It stabilized around $5 in early 2012. This was a far more volatile time in Bitcoin's history, but went largely unnoticed because no one was really talking about Bitcoin yet. BitcoinCharts 5. Bitcoin is completely safe and secure. Nope. Bitcoins can be stolen, and the recent Mt. Gox scandal should be a reminder that as long as there are humans involved, it will not be perfect. 6. There can only ever be 21 million Bitcoins in existence and that isn't enough. Of course it's enough. If we should start "running out," it's important to realize that a Bitcoin is divisible up to eight decimal places. The value of an individual Bitcoin may rise quite high, but we can keep dealing with smaller and smaller portions of it. As little as 0.00000001 Bitcoins, to be precise. We'll likely end up dealing with fractionally named Bitcoin measures, like millibitcoins and nanobitcoins. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ina Fassbender Tensions between Russia and Ukraine have reached a boiling point. Russia has now invaded the disputed region of Crimea and has issued an ultimatum telling Ukrainian forces to surrender by 12 a.m ET or face military action. We've pointed out that Ukraine is dependent on Russia for natural gas, to help it fund its external debt, and trade in general. But what about the impact on Russia? Credit Suisse's Alexander Redman and Arun Sai write that the "Crimea intervention" will also impact Russia. Here are five things we can expect (verbatim): They do point out that there could of course be more penalties against Russia. Vladimir Osakovskiy, an economist at BofA Merrill Lynch, writes that direct costs of a war could amount to 3% of GDP. Nomura's Alistair Newton also said that Russia might be "obliged to provide extensive economic support, at least for those parts of Ukraine, which it has pulled firmly into its sphere of influence, which would add to the burden on Russia’s economy." The economic impact on Russia is likely to be less severe than that on Ukraine, but it's not about to get a free pass either. FREE AppDownload
Like many Russian companies, search engine Yandex's stock is taking a hit today. It's likely due to the situation with Crimea. Yandex is down about 14% so far. CNBC FREE AppDownload
Jack Bogle, Financial Analysts JournalEveryone's still digesting Warren Buffett's brand new letter to Berkshire Hathaway shareholders. "This year, he shares some news that even you, the poor average bastard, can use," wrote Gawker's Hamilton Nolan. That blunt language may seem aggressive, but it may actually be exactly what readers need. In a post titled "Warren Buffett on How to Invest Better Than Warren Buffett," Nolan points to a quote that might surprise investors of Berkshire Hathaway. From Buffett: What I advise here is essentially identical to certain instructions I've laid out in my will. One bequest provides that cash will be delivered to a trustee for my wife's benefit. (I have to use cash for individual bequests, because all of my Berkshire shares will be fully distributed to certain philanthropic organizations over the ten years following the closing of my estate.) My advice to the trustee could not be more simple: Put 10% of the cash in short-term government bonds and 90% in a very low-cost S&amp;P 500 index fund. (I suggest Vanguard's.) I believe the trust's long-term results from this policy will be superior to those attained by most investors – whether pension funds, institutions or individuals – who employ high-fee managers. Buffett effectively argues that it's wiser to invest in a boring index fund than it is to invest with people who try to beat the market. Note, Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway tries to beat the market. It's appropriate that Buffett points to Vanguard, the mutual fund company where Jack Bogle made index funds famous. In a piece for the January/February issue of the Financial Analysts Journal, Bogle made a devastating case for passive investing (i.e. investing in an index fund). He argues that even if the active fund manager is able to match the performance of an index fund tracking something like the S&amp;P 500, the investor would still get crushed by fees. In his study, over a 40-year period the passive fund investor would pocket an average annual return of 6.6% versus the active fund manager who would pocket just 3.9% (see chart above). "In the short term, the impact of costs may appear modest, but over the long run, investment costs become immensely damaging to an investor’s standard of living," wrote Bogle. "Think long term! For those who are investing for their retirement and for their life- times, understanding the cost issue is vital to success in investing." In Nolan's words: "There you have it: you, the average idiot, can, with a simple online account, construct a low-cost portfolio that Warren Buffett himself says will beat what worthless expensive money managers in nice suits can likely get you. Do it, why not?" FREE AppDownload
Twitter/Jamie McGeeverRussia's MICEX tanks on Monday. Rising military tensions on the border between Ukraine and Russia have sent global markets into a tailspin of risk aversion to begin the week. In the United States, the S&amp;P 500 is trading down 1.1% at 1839, while 10-year U.S. Treasury futures are up 0.4%, and the yield on the 10-year Treasury note is 2.61%, four basis points below Friday's close. Stock markets across Europe are down anywhere from 1.5% (in London) to 3.4% (in Germany), and government bonds across the continent are rallying, with the exception of those in Portugal and Greece. Overnight, Asian equity indices sold off as well. Russia's stock market closed down 12%, and the Russian ruble is the worst performer against the U.S. dollar today — down 2.0%. Ten-year yields on local-currency Russian government bonds are 45 basis points higher at 8.72%, while 10-year yields on dollar-denominated Russian bonds are 29 basis points higher at 4.87%. NYMEX crude oil futures are up 2.2%, trading around $104.80 a barrel. "Markets may be soon focusing on threats to risk appetite going beyond Ukraine," says Valentin Marinov, European head of G10 FX strategy at Citi. "Disappointing payroll data or PMIs this week could be the triggers for more unwinding of long positions in risk-correlated assets. Lack of policy action by the ECB or indications that the Chinese Communist Party may tolerate sub-target growth could add to market uncertainty in coming days. Defensive trades may do well in this environment with liquid safe haven currencies like JPY, CHF, EUR and USD outperforming." The charts below show the moves across various markets. Across the top from left to right are S&amp;P 500 futures, the U.S. dollar-Japanese yen exchange rate, and the euro-U.S. dollar exchange rate. Across the bottom are gold futures, 10-year U.S. Treasury note futures, and NYMEX crude oil futures. Thinkorswim FREE AppDownload
Tensions are flaring between Russia and Ukraine, as the former invaded the disputed region of Crimea. Russia has now issued an ultimatum telling Ukrainian forces in the region to surrender by 12 a.m. ET. It's unquestionable that this conflict will have more of an impact on Ukraine. Besides the dependence on Russia for natural gas and Russia's role in helping Ukraine meet its debt obligations, there's trade to think of too. Bloomberg LP chief economist Michael McDonough tweeted this chart that shows that Ukraine depends on Russia for about 30% of its total imports. And over 25% of Ukraine's exports are consumed by Russia. Meanwhile, Russia only derives 5% of its imports from Ukraine, and 6% of Russia's exports are consumed by Ukraine. Michael McDonough/Bloomberg BRIEF This chart from McDonough shows that Ukraine's trade activity is more dependent on the Commonwealth of Independent States (made up of former Soviet Republics) than the EU: Bloomberg BRIEF/Michael McDonough FREE AppDownload
This is what it looks like when the market completely loses faith in a country's finances. This chart shows the yield on 6-month Ukrainian government bills. Yields have been on the rise since the beginning of the year, when political instability began to take hold in the country. Today, the 6-month yield is 46.9% — 23 percentage points above where it closed on Friday, before the escalation of military tensions that took place over the weekend on the border between Ukraine and Russia. If you think Ukraine won't go bust, you can get a yield of 46.9%. Business Insider (data from Bloomberg) FREE AppDownload
Tensions between Russia and Ukraine have have capture the attention of the world, with global markets jittery after Russian troops entered the Crimea region of Ukraine. As the conflict intensifies, investors are wondering what further reverberations it might have. And, because Russia is a major energy exporter to Europe, an armed conflict may jolt the EU, according to Citi economists. "Should a trade embargo (or worse) occur, the volatility of oil and gas prices, and of energy prices in general, will increase markedly," they write. From the note: The global oil market continues to be more integrated than the global gas market, which remains regionally segmented because of the limited reach of pipelines and limited gas liquefaction, shipping and de-liquefaction capacity. Finding alternative sources of supply and alternative markets will be harder for gas than for oil, so gas price volatility ought therefore to be greater than oil price volatility. Because a trade embargo would likely reduce the effective supply for oil and gas more than the effective demand in the short run, this increased volatility should be around a significantly higher level of oil, gas and electricity prices. Sky News' Ed Conway tweeted this chart putting Russian gas exports in perspective. Other than Ukraine of course, Germany and Turkey may get hurt if the conflict continues. Check out the chart: Twitter.com/Ed Conway FREE AppDownload
AFP If you question the strategic location of Ukraine, check out this map that Agence France-Presse made last in December — two months before protesters in Kiev forced President Viktor Yanukovych out of office. Russia has now invaded the strategic Black Sea peninsula of Crimea, and markets are spooked at the possibility that Russian troops that are being built up on the border could enter eastern Ukraine. As the international tug-of-war for Ukraine continues, the tension involving economic relations in the region — especially regarding gas flow from Russia to both Ukraine and Europe — will increase. Germany is perhaps the best example of this, as described by Noah Barkin of Reuters: "Heavily dependent on Russian gas and closer to Moscow than any other leading western nation, Germany faces a major policy dilemma as the Ukraine crisis descends into a Cold War-style confrontation of tit-for-tat threats and ultimatums."
Being a currency buff, I have always found Bitcoin and all of the other “alternative” currencies to be interesting, and a pleasant distraction.  A few months ago the price action seemed to suggest similar properties as many speculative bubbles do, so I penned a piece that compared Bitcoin to the South Seas Bubble.  I even went as far as to setup an account on CoinBase and accept Bitcoin deposits for The Idea Farm, but everyone seemed to prefer good old credit cards so I took it down. I thought it would be interesting to update the chart with the recent price action…are we about where Newton went broke? Meb Faber FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Rebecca CookThe Institute for Supply Management's survey of manufacturing conditions is out. The ISM index climbed to 53.2 in February, up from 51.3 in January and ahead of economist expectations for a 52.3 print. "The New Orders Index registered 54.5 percent, an increase of 3.3 percentage points from January's reading of 51.2 percent," according to the report.  "The Production Index registered 48.2 percent, a decrease of 6.6 percentage points compared to January's reading of 54.8 percent. Inventories of raw materials increased by 8.5 percentage points to 52.5 percent." Here's the full release: (Tempe, Arizona) — Economic activity in the manufacturing sector expanded in February for the ninth consecutive month, and the overall economy grew for the 57th consecutive month, say the nation's supply executives in the latest Manufacturing ISM® Report On Business®. The report was issued today by Bradley J. Holcomb, CPSM, CPSD, chair of the Institute for Supply Management® (ISM®) Manufacturing Business Survey Committee. "The February PMI® registered 53.2 percent, an increase of 1.9 percentage points from January's reading of 51.3 percent indicating expansion in manufacturing for the ninth consecutive month. The New Orders Index registered 54.5 percent, an increase of 3.3 percentage points from January's reading of 51.2 percent. The Production Index registered 48.2 percent, a decrease of 6.6 percentage points compared to January's reading of 54.8 percent. Inventories of raw materials increased by 8.5 percentage points to 52.5 percent. As in January, several comments from the panel mention adverse weather conditions as a factor impacting their businesses in February. Other comments reflect optimism in terms of demand and growth in the near term." Of the 18 manufacturing industries, 14 are reporting growth in February in the following order: Textile Mills; Wood Products; Machinery; Printing &amp; Related Support Activities; Plastics &amp; Rubber Products; Nonmetallic Mineral Products; Transportation Equipment; Paper Products; Food, Beverage &amp; Tobacco Products; Electrical Equipment, Appliances &amp; Components; Fabricated Metal Products; Furniture &amp; Related Products; Primary Metals; and Chemical Products. The three industries reporting contraction in February are: Apparel, Leather &amp; Allied Products; Petroleum &amp; Coal Products; and Miscellaneous Manufacturing.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kim Hong-JiParticipants watch South Korean President Park Geun-hye make a speech on small screens fitted in their seats during a ceremony celebrating the 95th anniversary of the Independence Movement Day in Seoul March 1, 2014.HEADS UP: Economies around the world are releasing their February manufacturing purchasing managers index reports, and this is our scorecard. The anecdotes from the reports will be scrutinized carefully as economists attempt to separate short-term weather-related disruptions from the longer-term economic trends. During the month, the eastern U.S. was battered by winter storms while the western U.S. struggled with droughts. Droughts also hit Brazil, sending coffee prices surging. Indeed, temperatures around the world have actually been unusually warm. In terms of the real economy, all eyes will be focused on China, which continues to show signs of slowing. On Saturday, we learned China's official manufacturing PMI hit an 8-month low of 50.2. The unofficial HSBC PMI fell to 48.5, as output and new orders both declined for the first time since July 2013. "Signs become clear that the risks to GDP growth are tilting to the downside," said HSBC's Hongbin Qu. "This calls for policy fine-tuning measures to stabilise market expectations and steady the pace of growth in coming quarters." The global manufacturing PMI climbed to a 34-month high of 53.3. "The manufacturing sector is downshifting from very rapid growth late last year," said JP Morgan's David Hensley. "The global PMI has not quite registered the shift due to weather-related distortions in the US survey, which bounced in February. However, excluding the US, the global PMI is trending lower. The March reading should give a clearer signal of underlying momentum." Here's our scorecard with highlights:-------------------------------------------- Japan: JMMA Manufacturing PMI: 55.5 — down from 55.5 in January-Sharpest rate of job creation in seven years, Prices charged increase at sharpest pace since October 2008 Brazil: HSBC Manufacturing PMI: 50.4 — down from 50.8 -Input cost and output price inflation both accelerate China: Official Manufacturing PMI: 50.2 — down from 50.5-An eight-month low Australia: Ai Group Manufacturing PMI: 48.6 — up from 46.7-The exports sub-index collapsed to 25.8 from 34.1. South Korea: HSBC Manufacturing PMI: 48.5 — down from 49.5-The first sub-50 reading since September China: HSBC Manufacturing PMI: 48.5 — down from 49.5-Both output and new orders decline for the first time since July 2013. Vietnam: HSBC Manufacturing PMI: 51.0 — down from 52.1 -Slower rises in output and new orders Taiwan: HSBC Manufacturing PMI: 54.7 — down from 55.5-Employment levels increase at the slowest rate in seven months Indonesia: HSBC Manufacturing PMI: 50.5 — down from 51.0-Manufacturing sector business conditions improve for sixth month running India: HSBC Manufacturing PMI: 52.5 — up from 51.4-Both output and new order growth at 12-month highs Russia: HSBC Manufacturing PMI: 48.5 — up from 48.0-Strongest decline in new orders since May 2009 Ireland: Investec Manufacturing PMI: 52.9 — up from 52.8-Rate of growth in production eased, but new orders increased at a faster pace Netherlands: NEVI Manufacturing PMI: 55.2 — up from 54.8-Employment returns to growth Poland: HSBC Manufacturing PMI: 55.9 — up from 55.4-Second-fastest rise in new business in survey history Turkey: HSBC Manufacturing PMI: 53.4 — up from 52.7-Strongest rise in new orders in three months Spain: Markit Manufacturing PMI: 52.5 — up from 52.2-Third successive monthly rise in output Czech Republic: HSBC Manufacturing PMI: 56.5 — up from 55.9-Headline Manufacturing PMI hits 34-month high Italy: Markit/ADACI Manufacturing PMI: 52.3 — down from 53.1-Robust increases in output and new orders recorded France: Markit Manufacturing PMI: 49.3 — up from 49.7-Marginal increase in production, Further drop in employment Germany: Markit/BME Manufacturing PMI: 54.8 — down from 56.5-Production and new orders rise sharply, albeit at weaker rates Eurozone: Markit Manufacturing PMI: 53.2 — down from 54.0-Broad-based expansion of output and new orders. Contraction in France eases. UK: Markit/CIPS Manufacturing PMI: 56.9 — up from 56.6-Manufacturing employment rises at fastest pace since May 20 US: Markit Manufacturing PMI: 57.1 — up from 56.7-Job creation hits 11-month high US: ISM Manufacturing: 53.2 — up from 51.3-Of the 18 manufacturing industries, 14 are reporting growth in February Canada: RBC Manufacturing PMI: 52.9 — up from 51.7-Production levels increased for the tenth successive month Mexico: HSBC Manufacturing PMI: 52.0 — up from 54.0-New export work falls for first time in six months Global: JPMorgan Manufacturing PMI: 53.3 — up from 53.0-Manufacturing PMI hits 34-month high Greece: Markit Manufacturing PMI At the beginning of each month, Markit, HSBC, RBC, JP Morgan, and several other major data gathering institutions publish the latest local readings of the manufacturing purchasing managers index (PMI) for countries around the world. Read more about it at Markit. FREE AppDownload
Jost Stollman/TwitterJost Stollmann was born to be an entrepreneur. The son of a Finance Ministry under-secretary and “the only woman car dealer in post-war Germany”, Stollmann was raised to have an appetite for adventure and risk. It was that upbringing that led him to build and sell a billion-dollar IT services company in the late 90s, pull his five children aged 6 to 14 out of school for two years to circumnavigate the globe in 2002, and move to Sydney’s Double Bay after crashing into a Fijian reef. “The propensity to be an entrepreneur is either nurtured from family and educational background, or by urgency, need, lack of alternative,” Stollmann told Business Insider Australia. “I’m in the first camp. “My father convinced me to study abroad; I was the only German studying law at the time in France, so there was socialization to do unusual things, to take risks. “I’m nurtured to have that mentality.” The Entrepreneur Stollmann graduated from the Panthéon-Assas University in Paris and later, the Harvard Business School, and went on to work for the Boston Consulting Group in Chicago for three years before he was asked to leave. “They said I was too artistic,” he explained. So he returned in Germany as a 29-year-old in 1984 and founded CompuNet – an IT systems and network integrator that he built into a billion-dollar business with 3,000 employees and sold to GE Capital 12 years later. Once again, Stollmann found himself in a suit-and-tie culture where he clashed with traditional management and people he called “jerks”. “I always say when you sell a business, you sell it three times,” he said, referring to the sale of the company to a new owner, the sale of the founder and his team into the new corporate culture, and the founder’s eventual departure. Stollmann quit GE in September 1997; his wife Fiona, who had worked with him at CompuNet and later GE as a marketing executive, was asked to leave shortly afterwards. The Politician Stollmann was well-known in the German start-up scene, winning him the attention of Social Democratic Party leader Gerhard Schröder who asked him to join his cabinet as Shadow Minister for Economy and Technology. Although his political views weren’t perfectly aligned with those of the party, Stollmann accepted. “It was clear that Schröder was going to win and instead of bitching in the Senator Lounge of Lufthansa, I said I’d serve my country,” he explained. But he didn’t survive a power struggle with the “traditional left” and chairman Oskar Lafontaine. Stollmann left the party just days before Schröder formed his government. “It was a big scandal at the time,” he said. “I went back to promoting the entrepreneurial culture in the community, then we left on our boat.” The Traveler Alithia / Jost StollmannGreece-born Fiona Stollmann had wanted to migrate to sunnier shores for some time, and in 1999, the couple started work on a custom-built high-performance yacht that could take the family on a two-year trip around the world. The family moved onto 130-foot “Alithia” in May 2002 with two tutors and a crew of six. “We spent the next two years visiting the most remote areas of the planet,” Jost Stollmann said. “With a sailing boat, you can reach places that are off the beaten track – places where we were the first boat ever, or the first white people to visit.” The family sailed past South America and through the Pacific before Alithia struck a reef in Fiji. They ended up in Australia, where the ship was repaired. “It was an undocumented underwater reef – a wall,” Stollman said. “Our yacht was 145 tonnes, moving at 8 knots, and came to a sudden stop. “There was a lot of cosmetic damage and a big scare, but the German-built aluminium hull – as it turned out, when we surveyed it in Brisbane – absorbed the unbelievable shock and forces, so we were able to continue our circumnavigation after some repair work.” The Stollmanns visited Sydney while in Australia, and Fiona was particularly impressed by private schools in the eastern suburbs. Their two-year itinerary ended at the 2004 Athens Olympics; when that was over, the Stollmanns moved to Double Bay and have lived there since. The Sydney CEO Stollmann is now CEO of payments start-up Tyro, which was founded by ex-Cisco employees Peter Haig, Andrew Rothwell and Paul Wood in response to a Reserve Bank push for non-bank innovators in the payments industry. As a husband and father, he has nothing but praise for his new home city. But as an entrepreneur, Stollmann has found the city lacking. Australia’s geographic isolation and market size meant that most business opportunities required Stollmann to travel extensively without his family, which was not something he was willing to do. He finally met Tyro’s founders through venture capital fund manager Roger Buckeridge, and was disappointed again when he realized how hard it was to raise capital for an early-stage business in Australia. Of the total $33 million invested in Tyro, Stollmann has tipped in about $8.5 million and might have contributed more had shareholdings not been limited by Australia’s Financial Sector (Shareholdings) Act. Capital raising was particularly difficult for Tyro, whose revenues – like those of Visa and Mastercard – come from taking a small percentage of the payments that go through its systems. Put simply, the business ran at a loss until it gained enough traction. Tyro reached a peak loss of $28 million before finally breaking even in March 2012 – numbers that were unlikely to appeal to number-crunching funds. “My experience [with capital raising in Australia] was disastrous,” Stollmann said. “Early-stage growth capital doesn’t exist. “I had to collect it from certain high net worth individuals and I put my own money in. Imagine what it’d be like for normal start-ups.” Tyro’s investors now include former Westpac executive David Fite, former Bankers Trust chairman Rob Ferguson, MYOB founder Craig Winkler and Atlassian co-founder Mike Cannon-Brookes. It will be Stollmann’s second big break, he says, noting that potential investors and business partners have come knocking now that the tougher, early phase is over. Stollmann says he has no regrets about moving to Australia but hopes – for the nation’s sake – that the entrepreneurial environment improves. He expects at least one of his five children to follow in his footsteps, given their exposure to change, risk and living outside of the box. “I have an opinion in general: the future is entrepreneurship and the only asset class with significant returns is entrepreneurial investments,” he said. “It’s a no-brainer; we’ve only seen the start of disruption and it’s going to touch all industries, all sectors, all countries. “We like [our children] to leave Australia after the HSC to study abroad, they don’t just learn their subject but another language, culture, and they’re on their own to navigate uncharted waters. “It’s good to prepare the younger generation to take calculated risks, to move around, to spot opportunities, to handle failure.”   This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
A written war has been raging on between activist investor Carl Icahn and eBay. Icahn has been shredding eBay's board of directors, in particular Marc Andreessen, questioning his loyalty to the company and accusing him of not having eBay's best interests in mind, which has essentially cost shareholders money.  Andreessen has now released a response to those accusations. In his letter, he denies that he has violated any of his duties to eBay shareholders and says that he adamantly removed himself from deliberations about any transactions that may have conflicted his interests.  Here's the full letter: False and misleading accusations have been made against eBay and against me in my role as an eBay director. This post provides my perspective on those accusations and their surrounding context. On the accusations: I dispute all accusations that I have violated any of my duties to eBay shareholders. Specifically: * Throughout the eBay board’s process of divesting Skype, I fully disclosed my potential interest and recused myself from all deliberations on the transaction, including all discussions, negotiations, and decisions. I was uninvolved in eBay’s decision to spin off Skype and in eBay’s decision to choose to partner with the Silver Lake syndicate. * eBay’s retained ownership in the Skype spinoff was 30% vs. Andreessen Horowitz’s approximately 3%. That much larger ownership gave eBay a far bigger role in decision making on Skype after the spinoff than Andreessen Horowitz, as well as a far bigger economic payoff on the sale to Microsoft. * Subsequent to the Skype transaction, I was re-elected to the eBay board in 2012 with virtually unanimous support — 99.7% of votes — of eBay shareholders. The Skype transaction received a high degree of public scrutiny when it happened; all of the facts around my role in the Skype transaction were fully public at that time; eBay has a very sophisticated body of shareholders; and if any of them saw any problem with my conduct around the Skype transaction, I am confident that they would have brought it up by 2012. * Andreessen Horowitz’s minority investment in Fanatics was made over a year after eBay divested that business as a part of eBay’s acquisition of GSI Commerce; there was no possible conflict at that point. Further, there was no contemplation of Andreessen Horowitz investing in Fanatics at any time during eBay’s negotiation and purchase of GSI Commerce or eBay’s divestiture of Fanatics. * I do not serve on the board of any company with any significant competitive overlap with eBay. * I disclose any situation where I believe I may have a potential conflict and recuse myself from any eBay board deliberation when I believe I may have a potential conflict due to an investment in another company. On the context: Directors of all companies owe shareholders several duties, including the duty of loyalty. This duty focuses on avoidance or appropriate handling of conflicts of interest, and requires fair dealing by directors involved in transactions that could result in personal gain or financial conflicts with the company. To strengthen this duty and to further protect public company shareholders from potential conflicts of interest, directors are restricted in several different ways. These restrictions include: (1) Prohibitions on one director serving on multiple company boards when those companies have any significant competitive overlap. (2) Requirements that a director of a company disclose potential conflicts and recuse him/herself from board discussions and decisions when that director has potential conflicts, such as but not limited to an investment stake in another company. (3) Restrictions on use of company confidential information by any director for any purpose other than that company’s benefit. These protections are enforced by several layers of oversight and accountability, including: (a) Each company’s legal counsel and broader board of directors. (b) Regulatory agencies such as the SEC, as well as stock exchange rules. (c) Shareholder votes, in which shareholders can vote directors in whom they lose confidence off the board. (d) Shareholder litigation, which is very common and which is omnipresent on directors’ minds during board meetings. All of these protections apply to directors of public companies in every industry and every field, including directors who are venture capitalists, hedge fund activists, private equity investors, operating executives, and independent board members. Some people have floated a theory that today’s technology industry is more prone to potential conflicts because of the rapidly shifting nature of software. I don’t think that’s true. For example, in prior decades the conglomerate business model, in which companies would choose to acquire and operate in many unrelated industries, was more common — a dynamic that would easily lead to unpredictable potential conflicts among boards and directors. Some people have also floated a theory that venture capitalists are more prone to potential conflicts than other kinds of directors due to their investments in multiple companies at once. I also don’t think that’s true. For example, activist hedge fund managers also tend to hold equity stakes in many companies at the same time, creating the exact same kind of potential conflict. Disclosure: Marc Andreessen is an investor in Business Insider. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Sergei KarpukhinCentral Bank of Russia governor Elvira Nabiullina.The Central Bank of Russia has been forced to intervene in the foreign exchange market today to stem the decline of the Russian ruble, which tanked Monday following an escalation of military tensions on the border between Ukraine and Russia over the weekend. According to a trader at ING cited by Bloomberg News, the central bank sold more than $10 billion of its dollar reserves this morning in exchange for rubles in the open market in order to prop up the value of the ruble. The IMF estimates that at the end of January, Russia's stock of foreign reserves totaled $457.2 billion. Basically, when a central bank wants to prop up its currency, it dips into its foreign exchange cash pile and buys its own currency on the open market. The central bank also unexpectedly hiked its key benchmark policy interest rate to 7% from 5.5% in an effort to stem the ruble's decline. The dollar is still up 1.4% today against the ruble, but the Russian currency has pared losses from earlier this morning when the dollar was up even more. The latest decline in the ruble on the back of escalating military tensions pushes the ruble into territory that the Central Bank of Russia can no longer ignore, given its effect on inflation. FREE AppDownload
Forbes just released its annual billionaires list, which highlights the richest people all around the world. This year, WhatsApp co-founders Jan Koum and Brian Acton made the cut. But with net worths of $6.8 billion and $3 billion, respectively, they're not even close to the richest people in tech.  Here are the top 15 richest tech billionaires in the world:  1. Bill Gates (Co-founder of Microsoft) Net Worth: $76 billion 2. Larry Ellison (CEO of Oracle) Net Worth: $48 billion 3. Larry Page (CEO of Google) Net Worth: $32.3 billion 4. Jeff Bezos (Founder and CEO of Amazon) Net Worth: $32 billion  5. Sergey Brin (Director of Google X) Net Worth: $31.8 billion 6. Mark Zuckerberg (Founder and CEO of Facebook) Net Worth: $28.5 billion 7. Steve Ballmer (Ex-Microsoft CEO) Net Worth: $19.3 billion 8. Michael Dell (Founder and CEO of Dell) Net Worth: $17.5 billion 9. Paul Allen (Microsoft co-founder) Net Worth: $15.9 billion 10. Azim Premji (Chairman of Wipro Limited) Net Worth: $15.3 billion 11. Charles Ergen (Chairman of Dish Network) Net Worth: $15 billion 12. Laurene Powell Jobs (largest individual shareholder of Disney) Net Worth: $14 billion 13. Ma Huateng (CEO of Tencent Holdings) Net Worth: $13.4 billion 14. Robin Li (CEO of China's top search engine, Baidu) Net Worth: $12.1 billion 15. Shiv Nadar (co-founder of HCL Group) Net Worth: $11.1 billion Make sure to check out the rest of the list &gt;&gt;  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Rebecca Cook Markit's U.S. purchasing managers' index came in at 57.1 in February, which was a bit higher than the 56.7 expected by economists. This is up from 53.7 in January. Any reading above 50 signals growth. Here are the key points from Markit: “The final PMI reading came in even higher that the already-strong flash estimate and signalled one of the largest monthly improvements in manufacturing for almost four years," noted Markit's Chris Williamson. “This to a large extent reflects a temporary rebound after supply chains and production had been disrupted by severe weather. While bad weather continued to hamper production at many companies in February, many also reported that weather-related issues were being overcome. “The upturn pushes the trend over the last three months to the strongest since May 2012, suggesting that the sector maintained robust underlying growth momentum throughout the winter months. “This solid trend offers some reassurance to the Fed that the recent weakness in the official production and payroll data is primarily weather related, meaning the FOMC will be keen to continue to taper its asset purchases.” Markit FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Kevin Maloney / Fortune Brainstorm Tech via Flickr Marc AndreessenActivist investor Carl Icahn is, once again, out with a new letter to eBay shareholders. Icahn has been going back and forth with eBay board member Marc Andreessen. And in the new letter, he doesn't pull punches. Andreessen's conflicts are "clear and insurmountable," he writes. Icahn has repeatedly gone after Andreesen for failing to have the company's best interest at heart in two specific deals — Skype and Keynetic. Icahn argues that Andreessen cost eBay shareholders a boatload of cash through the Skype deal, since his company bought a portion of the company instead of letting it IPO. For his part, Andreessen wrote this morning, "I dispute all accusations that I have violated any of my duties to eBay shareholders." Check out the full letter: Despite having just days ago professed a desire for “honest, accurate debate” on the issues, eBay declined CNBC’s offer to participate in a televised discussion with me. Then last Thursday eBay director Marc Andreessen attempted to defend his business practices to the Wall Street Journal but refused to directly address our assertions regarding his conflicts of interest. I think I am beginning to see a pattern here. I have a message for eBay’s board: You may be able to duck and weave when it comes to the media, but in a few short weeks you will have no choice but to face your stockholders at the annual meeting. We all deserve to know the truth about what really happened with Skype. THESE ARE THE FACTS AND WE BELIEVE THEY ARE INDISPUTABLE – THESE ARE THE QUESTIONS WHICH WE BELIEVE ARE RAISED BY THE ABOVE FACTS – We believe eBay and director Marc Andreessen have thus far refused to adequately clarify the public record. Therefore, we are in the process of demanding an inspection of eBay’s relevant books and records pursuant to our right as stockholders under Delaware law. We will attempt through our examination of these books and records to answer the above questions for ALL stockholders of eBay. In my opinion, Mr. Andreessen’s conflicts are clear and insurmountable. However, Mr. Andreessen attempted to defend himself, telling the Wall Street Journal that “he recuses himself from boardroom discussions that could involve companies his firm is backing.”[xi] Seriously? Mr. Andreessen expects eBay stockholders to be comforted by the fact that he self-polices himself? Excuse me if I do not find that nearly sufficient – especially in light of the Skype fiasco. As Jon Shazar at Dealbreaker eloquently noted when commenting on the Wall Street Journal interview: Carl Icahn thinks that eBay should spin off PayPal, and to prove it, he said a couple of eBay’s more prominent directors have more conflicts of interest than he has years. What he didn’t know is that one of them, Netscape founder and Silicon Valley legend Marc Andreessen, has a fool-proof system for avoiding such delicate situations: Whenever one of the seven boards of directors on which he serves starts talking about an area in which he has an interest—presumably all of them—he just closes his eyes and puts his headphones on and, presto, no conflict of interest.[xii] While that bit of hyperbole is no doubt funny, this is no laughing matter – especially when not only billions of dollars of stockholders’ money, but also the future long-term path of our company, hang in the balance. In closing, I will leave you with another quote from the Wall Street Journal interview: Charles Elson, director of the John L. Weinberg Center for Corporate Governance at the University of Delaware, said a director withdrawing from conversations may not be adequate to eliminate conflicts in some instances.“Recusal sounds great legally,” Mr. Elson said. “It’s pretty tough practically.”[xiii] We strongly believe that eBay management and the board should know better than to allow this to continue for one moment longer. Stockholders, please stay tuned. We are looking forward to sharing with you our business rationale for separating PayPal from eBay. Thank you for your continued support. Sincerely, Carl C. Icahn Disclosure: Marc Andreessen is an investor in Business Insider. FREE AppDownload
Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from St. Louis Fed) January core PCE deflator data are out. The deflator rose 0.1% from the previous month in January, bringing the year-over-year change in the core PCE deflator to 1.1% from December's 1.2% reading, as expected. The core PCE deflator is the measure of inflation that the Federal Reserve cites in its communications, and is thus closely followed by Fed watchers. "Core PCE monthly changes have been 0.1% every month from July to January," says Chris Rupkey, chief financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ. "June was the last month we had a 0.2% rise. If we don’t get more 0.2% monthly changes, the year-on-year figure will sink closer to zero-dot-zero. Fall to nothing, bordering on deflation. Core CPI inflation is higher, less worrisome to the deflation scare story, at 1.6% year-on-year in January. The difference is different accounting for medical care services prices, so there is no too-low inflation problem if you look at CPI, like most of the world does." FREE AppDownload
Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from St. Louis Fed) January personal income and consumer spending data are out. Incomes rose 0.3% from the previous month in January, above expectations for a 0.2% advance. The January gains brought the year-over-year change in total incomes to 4.1%. Spending was up 0.4% — above expectations for a 0.1% gain — but December's 0.4% gain was revised down to 0.1%. Nonetheless, total spending in January was up 3.5% from a year earlier. "The details are much less impressive," says Ian Shepherdson, chief economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics. "Excluding the 11.3% leap in real spending on utility electricity and gas — cold weather boosted demand for heating energy — real spending rose only 0.09%, compared to the 0.19% Q4 average. The core problem for consumers remains the sluggishness of real income growth, which rose 0.3% in January but fell 0.2% in December. The trend is running a bit below 2% at an annualized rate, and with the saving rate still very low at just 4.3%, it is hard to see scope for sustained gains in spending in excess of income growth." FREE AppDownload
CNBCDave LutzDave Lutz of Stifel Nicolaus has a round-up of what traders are chatting about before the opening bell: Good Morning!   All about the Ukraine this AM, as Russia’s latest moves spark angst and a flight to safety.   Futures in the USA are marked off 1%, and just off the lows of the overnight. As VIX futures are marked up 10%   This mirrors weakness overseas, with the DAX off almost 3%, and the FTSE 2%, as banks have been hit by concerns over exposure to Russian and Ukrainian banks.   Volume is quite heavy in Europe, with most markets trading 50% above their recent 20day averages.   Russia off over 10% as the Rouble collapses to record lows – Their Central Bank stepped in and raised 150bp, citing “risks to financial stability”.  Poland’s market was initially hit for almost 4%.   Ukraine itself not off all the bad, as their FX is higher as they await bailout teams, and their CDS is only up 1% overnight.  In Asia,  China bounced almost 1% despite their PMI hitting 7M lows, as one of the “unintended consequences” of the Yuan weakening is liquidity is spiking in their money markets.  The Nikkei was hit for 1.2%, and futures are marked about 80bp lower – as the Yen is spiking on haven flows.   Sectors to focus on will be the weaker banks (Ukraine/Russia exposure) – Gold Miners (up 4% as Gold is spiking) – Casinos (Macau Numbers blowing out) – and the Divvy Sectors like REITS with 10YY dropping hard. 10YY crashes under the 200dma – Now yielding 2.6%, gearing up to test October Lows near 2.47%.  We have Safe haven FX jumping – including the Yen and Swiss Franc.  The Euro is getting hit sharply, helping the DXY bounce despite the jumping Yen – a headwind for commodities.  That said, Russia is the world’s largest energy exporter, including both oil and gas – so combined with the cold Northeast, we have both Brent and Natty up 2.5%.  Gold is adding 2% on haven flows, now the highest since October.  Wheat climbed the most in 17 months and corn rose to the highest since September as tensions escalated in Ukraine, a leading exporter of both grains. FREE AppDownload
CNBCCNBC's Becky Quick and Warren BuffettTwo days after publishing his annual letter to shareholders, Warren Buffett is on CNBC speaking with Becky Quick. Equity fund managers Todd Combs and Ted Weschler will also be on later in an extremely rare appearance. On Ukraine Off the bat, Quick asked for his take on the tension in Ukraine. Rather than addressing the turmoil directly, Buffett said that he does not consider these types of skirmishes when he invests in companies. "I never really buy businesses based on macro factors," he said. He noted that he invested in his first business in the wake of the attack on Pearl Harbor. On The Stock Market Regarding the market itself, Quick asked if the mom-and-pop investor really could get a fair shot as some argue that the market is actually rigged. Buffett was skeptical that the $20-plus-trillion stock market could actually be rigged. "People should stop calling it the stock market," he said. "It's American business." On The U.S. Economy "Exactly what's been going on since the fall of 2009 continues," he said, reminding us that he gets live updates from the 80+ companies he invests in. "Moderate but consistent growth for four and a half years. Every now and then we get excited about a speeding up and every now and again we worry about a double dip. "In terms of what we see, it's been almost a straight line, but not at the kind of slope that people would like. But not flat either." "We haven't gotten wildly optimistic and we haven't gotten wildly pessimistic," he added, emphasizing that things have been pretty steady. On Weather "It's certainly a factor," he said. "Our railroads don't work as well ... and those things compound." "The biggest risk ... to us would be earthquakes in New Zealand," said Buffett recognizing that the hurricane insurance business has been very good to Berkshire. On Selling Coca-Cola, Wells Fargo, And American Express: "None of the stocks are forever but they're for very long terms," said Buffett to a question of when he planned on selling these stocks. On IBM A reader asked if Buffett felt he made a mistake with this stock. "The financial performance has been pretty good but it's been helped with low tax rates," Buffett said, adding that there was a lot going on in the business due to cloud tech. "It's fair to say I know less about the future of IBM than I do about Wells Fargo or Coca-Cola. ... In terms of the price action, that means little to me. The fewer the shares outstanding the better I like it. ... I would like to see the revenues pick up. "We bought a few more shares last year, but not many. We bought a few shares this year." On Railroads Buffett's still bullish on the industry "The future of railroads is very good,"  he said. On The Keystone Pipeline  It's a "very good idea for the country."  "I'd vote yes," he said later. On Being Considered "Too Big To Fail" Buffett says Berkshire has heard nothing from regulators about the derivatives on his book making his company TBTF. "We never have any significant short-term debt, we always have bundles of cash. ... We're large, but Exxon Mobile is large. ... It's very unlikely we'd be categorized like that." On Washington "It's more or less a stalemate," said Buffett, who also said he can't imagine things getting worse. On Raising The Minimum Wage "It really cuts both ways, you'd like to have people getting paid more but you also want more people employed. I could argue both sides. ... What you really should do is increase the earned income tax credit. ... I think you can accomplish way more through the earned income tax credit. ... There's trade offs on the minimum wage and you can do all these studies but they don't know." The Greatest Thing Obama Can Do To Create Jobs "Further fiscal stimulus would increase job growth," said Buffett, "but you pay a price for that." Buffett also disagrees with the view that the Fed's low-interest policy is exacerbating the issue. Who's doing a better job cleaning up their mess? — Obama or BofA CEO Brian Moynihan "Brian Moynihan didn't have to convince the United States Congress," said Buffett. On Ukraine as WWIII or the next Cold War "The last thing you'd want to do is hold money during a war. ... During WWII the stock market advanced. ... You're gonna be a lot better off holding productive assets over the next 50 years over stocks or bitcoin." On Bitcoin "It's not a currency," he said. "I wouldn't be surprised if it wasn't around in the next 10-20 years." "It's being priced off the dollar," Buffett added. "It is not a durable means of exchange." On Todd Combs And Ted Weschler "Todd and ted look at investments very much like I do," he said, noting that they think about businesses rather than stocks. "It's a combination of soundness and brilliance," he added saying that they think about the things that haven't happened yet. "They've made Berkshire billions already."  Todd Combs, Ted Weschler and Tracy Britt Speak "Ninety percent of things you can dismiss within five minutes," said Todd Combs, who said he spends much of his time reading company filings. "Know the situation; wait for the right price," said Weschler on his investment process. "Be ready." On activist investing: "The way some people use the word 'shareholder value' kind of puzzles me," said Buffett, at Berkshire he wants to build sustainable earning power over time. He said this in reference to Carl Icahn's push for Apple to buy back stock. He said that Apple's refusal to go all the way with Icahn's proposal was likely a sign that it was looking to do the same thing. On an economic slowdown: "My impression is that the American economy over the last five years has been moving at a steady rate, upwards." Buffett said that some sectors may not be doing as well, and the economy isn't growing as fast as people would like. Click Here For Live Updates » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Anatolii Stepanov A customer and street vendor are seen before the background of an outdoor ad with an image of the Ukrainian hryvnia and U.S. dollar bank notes in central Kiev.Good morning! Here's what you need to know. Russia invades Ukraine. Russia has taken over airspaces, airports, highways, and the regional government of the Ukrainian peninsula of Crimea, and troops are reportedly telling Ukrainians to give up arms and support the area's pro-Moscow leaders. The move earned a rebuke from President Obama, who spoke with Russia's Vladimir Putin on the phone over the weekend. Then Russia pays the economic price. The Russian Central Bank hiked interest rates from 5.5% to 7% to help save its plunging currency. Meanwhile, the country's stock market has crashed. The MICEX index is down 10%, and the country just saw its fourth straight month of manufacturing contraction. "Direct costs of war to Russia could reach at least 3% of GDP, which consists of nearly half (or about $30 billion) of gas exports from Russia to Europe, which is carried out through Ukraine and which would most likely be disrupted in case of a war," said Vladimir Osakovskiy, an economist at BofA Merrill Lynch. Gold rallied in the wake of the Ukraine crisis, and is up 11% since the end of December. Problems in China. The country suffered a deadly terrorist attack when a knife-wielding group of militants killed 27 and injured 109 in a Kunming train station. On the economic side, the Chinese manufacturing sector slumped. According to Markit/HSBC, China's PMI reading came in at 48.5, with both output and new orders falling for the first time since July 2013. China's official PMI reading was 50.2, down from 50.5 and marking an eight-month low. Other Asian economies also contracted in their PMI reports. Check out the full recap here. Australia contracts, Europe looking stronger. Australia's AIG-performance of manufacturing grew to 48.6 in February, but the below-50 print means the sector is still contracting. The pivotal exports sub-index collapsed to 25.8 from 34.1. In Europe, U.K. manufacturing employment hit a 33-month high, with PMI growing to 56.9 from 56.6 in January. Eurozone PMI ticked down to 53.2, still above that 50-mark threshold.  It's a packed day of economic data, with U.S. automakers reporting sales throughout the day. Analysts predict the annualized pace of sales grew to 15.4 million in February. "Mid-month industry reports in January saw sales rising to near a 15.8 million unit annual pace from 15.3 million in December, but instead bad late month weather resulted in a slight decline to 15.2 million," Morgan Stanley's Ted Wieseman wrote clients. "Weather disruptions continued into the first part of February, but improvement moving into Presidents Day weekend helped stabilize retail sales, and a rebound in fleet sales that were disrupted by weather in January is expected to provide a boost to the overall selling rate." At 8:30 a.m. ET, personal income and outlays will be released. Economists expect income climbed 0.2% and spending grew by 0.1% in January. "Personal income growth should rebound in January," Wells Fargo's John Silvia wrote. "The average workweek remained unchanged, but average hourly earnings rose 0.2 percent over the month, along with the addition of 113,000 new jobs to the economy. Spending growth likely was more modest. After outpacing income gains the past three months, spending likely ticked up 0.1 percent in January as cold weather kept many shoppers at home." We'll also get a batch of manufacturing data. At 8:58 a.m., Markit PMI will be released. Economists believe PMI came in at 56.7 in February (anything above 50 signals expansion. Then at 10:00 a.m., we'll get ISM manufacturing. Economists are looking for this index to climb to 52.0 in February from 51.3 the month prior. "Regional manufacturing surveys point to a slower pace of manufacturing activity in February," wrote Nomura economists. "For example, the headline indexes in the Empire State and Philly Fed manufacturing surveys both declined in February, with the latter turning negative." Finally, construction spending will be released at 10:00 a.m. Economists think this declined by 0.5% in January. "Severe weather likely substantially disrupted construction in January," said Morgan Stanley's Wieseman."The 16% plunge in housing starts points to a large drop in homebuilding, and we’re assuming sizable declines in private nonresidential and government spending as well." Global markets were lower in overnight trading. Japan's Nikkei fell 1.27% while Korea's KOSPI dropped 0.77%. In Europe, stocks are decidedly lower, and U.S. futures pointed to a negative open. Warren Buffett releases his annual letter. Over the weekend, Buffett put out his letter to Berkshire Hathaway shareholders.  "Over the last 49 years (that is, since present management took over), book value has grown from $19 to $134,973, a rate of 19.7% compounded annually," wrote Buffett. In 2014, book value grew 18.2% — but still didn't beat out the S&amp;P 500. Buffett also warned about public pensions plans, writing that "local and state financial problems are accelerating, in large part because public entities promised pensions they couldn’t afford." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Rebecca CookWarren Buffett Warren Buffett's annual letter to Berkshire Hathaway shareholders was published on Saturday morning. In case you missed it, here are the points that had us talking: Berkshire Hathaway FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe Apple logo is pictured at its flagship retail store in San FranciscoFRANKFURT (Reuters) - Apple makes its next move in hands-free smartphone technology for car drivers when it unveils a new, integrated iPhone voice-control system at the Geneva Motor Show this week. The U.S. company's CarPlay makes its debut in Ferrari, Mercedes-Benz and Volvo vehicles at the show, demonstrating the software system that allows drivers to control their iPhones via touch and voice, Apple said on Monday. Carmakers have already enabled some access to smartphones via bluetooth technology, but Apple's latest offering aims to integrate iPhone functionality more seamlessly with dashboard-mounted display and speaker systems. CarPlay enables drivers to access to contacts stored on the iPhone, make calls, return missed calls or listen to voicemails without taking their hands from the steering wheel. Drivers can also use maps, listen to music and access messages "with just a word or a touch", Apple said. Drivers will also be able to read messages and dictate responses via Apple's voice-activated Siri software. Apple said that CarPlay will also be available in cars from manufacturers including BMW, Ford, General Motors, Honda, Hyundai, PSA Peugeot Citroën, Subaru, Suzuki and Toyota Motor Corp. (Reporting by Harro ten Wolde and Edward Taylor; Editing by David Goodman) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Konstantin ChernichkinUkraine's new Prime Minister Arseny Yatseniuk speaks during a news conference in Kiev February 28, 2014.New Ukrainian Prime Minister Arseny Yatseniuk says his country would never give up Crimea, Sergei Karazy of Reuters reports. "No one will give up Crimea to anyone," Yatseniuk told reporters. The isolated Black Sea peninsula, which has a majority Russian population, is currently occupied by pro-Russian gunman and Russian troops. There are now fears that the Kremlin, which is Ukraine's ousted president and had not recognized Yatseniuk's government, will now move more troops into Ukrainian territory. There are currently more than 6,000 Russian soldiers in Crimea, and presumed-Kremlin soldiers have taken over the ferry terminal on the easternmost tip of Crimea near Russia. FREE AppDownload
A quick shout out to the yellow metal, which perhaps hasn't gotten the attention it deserves this year. It's already up $22.50/oz today to $1344 in the wake of the Ukraine crisis. And really the whole year has been great. It was right around $1200 at the end of December, and has since rallied more than 11%. FinViz FREE AppDownload
University of Sydney A study by University of Sydney researchers produced this map showing the flow of jobs and wages around the world. In Australia’s case, China has 5 million people just to make goods for Australians. The workers, on low wages, support Australia’s lifestyle. For example, a computer bought in Australia (average domestic wage US$59,700) might be assembled in China (average domestic wage $US2,700) and Thailand ($US2,100) using electronic circuits made in the Philippines ($US1,700). Other examples: French people (average domestic wage, US$58,000) smoke cigars manufactured in Poland (average domestic wage, US$10,000) which relies on raw material produced in Tanzania (average domestic wage, US$170). In turn, Tanzania imports computers produced in China and designed in the United States. In 2010, about 500,000 labourers in Tanzania worked to support US consumption (earned $215 million), whereas approximately 3,000 labourers in the United States worked for Tanzania (and earned $50 million). Americans (average domestic wage, $58,000) love their cotton clothes. These are manufactured in China (average domestic wage, US$2,700) and woven from yarn in Pakistan (average domestic wage, US$1,460) made with raw cotton from Tajikistan (average domestic wage, US$450). The research paper, The Employment Footprints of Nations Uncovering Master-Servant Relationships, was published in the Journal of Industrial Ecology. This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
European PMI reports are out, and mostly there isn't too much that's that exciting. Via Markit, here's your ultra-quick snapshot of Europe. Markit FREE AppDownload
The Russian market is taking it on the chin today. Stocks are crashing and the central bank was forced to hike rates to stem the plunging ruble. And the timing is not good. Russia's economy is already in a funk. Just look at the latest manufacturing PMI report that came out this morning. The country is seeing its fourth straight month of contraction, wiht a reading of 48.5. New orders and employment at Russian factories both declined, with new orders seeing their fastest contraction since 2009. A hike in interest rates and a market crash is the last thing Russia needs. Markit FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Alexander Demianchuk Russia is already paying an economic price for its actions in Ukraine. The Russian Central Bank was forced to hike interest rates over night from 5.5% to 7% in order to stem the plunging Russian ruble. And the stock market crashed. The MICEX index, the country's benchmark index, fell 12%. The market has already been quite bearish on Russian assets this year, particularly the ruble. But the prospect of sanctions and an expensive conflict are leading to swift punishment in the market. FREE AppDownload
ReutersGood morning! It was a very busy weekend, with the Russia-Ukraine tensions dominating the show. This has created selling across the board as equity markets are down everywhere. Japan lost 1.27%. Korea fell 0.77%.  In Europe, UK stocks are down 1%. Taking it hardest is German stocks, which are off 2%. Italy is lower by 1.1%. US futures are down around 0.6%, which is off the lows and really not that bad at all. In therms of big overnight economic events, the Russian central bank hiked rates by 1.5% to defend against a plummeting ruble. Already, there's an economic price that Vladimir Putin is playing here. FREE AppDownload
