Here's something new for the investing world. This is from The White House's State Of The Union fact sheet: Creating “myRA” – A Safe, Easy-to-Use Starter Savings Account to Help Millions of Middle Class Americans Save for Retirement. Starting to save is just the first step towards a secure retirement. Workers must have a place to invest their hard-earned savings that provides an appropriate balance of risk and return, and many private sector providers do not offer retirement savings options tailored to smaller balance savers. Our retirement system should help these potential savers and encourage them to begin building their retirement security. The President is using his executive authority to create “myRA” (my Retirement Account) – a new simple, safe and affordable “starter” retirement savings account that will be available through employers and help millions of Americans save for retirement. This savings account would be offered through a familiar Roth IRA Account and, like savings bonds, would be backed by the U.S. government. And here's what the text of the speech says: Let’s do more to help Americans save for retirement. Today, most workers don’t have a pension. A Social Security check often isn’t enough on its own. And while the stock market has doubled over the last five years, that doesn’t help folks who don’t have 401ks. That’s why, tomorrow, I will direct the Treasury to create a new way for working Americans to start their own retirement savings: MyRA. It’s a new savings bond that encourages folks to build a nest egg. MyRA guarantees a decent return with no risk of losing what you put in. And if this Congress wants to help, work with me to fix an upside-down tax code that gives big tax breaks to help the wealthy save, but does little to nothing for middle-class Americans. Offer every American access to an automatic IRA on the job, so they can save at work just like everyone in this chamber can. And since the most important investment many families make is their home, send me legislation that protects taxpayers from footing the bill for a housing crisis ever again, and keeps the dream of homeownership alive for future generations of Americans. We're looking forward to learning more. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Larry Downing President Barack Obama on Tuesday delivered the State of the Union address. The full text is below, but here are some highlights: Here is the full text, as prepared for delivery:  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Mr. Speaker, Mr. Vice President, Members of Congress, my fellow Americans: Today in America, a teacher spent extra time with a student who needed it, and did her part to lift America’s graduation rate to its highest level in more than three decades. An entrepreneur flipped on the lights in her tech startup, and did her part to add to the more than eight million new jobs our businesses have created over the past four years.   An autoworker fine-tuned some of the best, most fuel-efficient cars in the world, and did his part to help America wean itself off foreign oil.  A farmer prepared for the spring after the strongest five-year stretch of farm exports in our history.  A rural doctor gave a young child the first prescription to treat asthma that his mother could afford.  A man took the bus home from the graveyard shift, bone-tired but dreaming big dreams for his son.  And in tight-knit communities across America, fathers and mothers will tuck in their kids, put an arm around their spouse, remember fallen comrades, and give thanks for being home from a war that, after twelve long years, is finally coming to an end. Tonight, this chamber speaks with one voice to the people we represent: it is you, our citizens, who make the state of our union strong.  Here are the results of your efforts:  The lowest unemployment rate in over five years.  A rebounding housing market.  A manufacturing sector that’s adding jobs for the first time since the 1990s.  More oil produced at home than we buy from the rest of the world – the first time that’s happened in nearly twenty years.  Our deficits – cut by more than half.  And for the first time in over a decade, business leaders around the world have declared that China is no longer the world’s number one place to invest; America is. That’s why I believe this can be a breakthrough year for America.  After five years of grit and determined effort, the United States is better-positioned for the 21st century than any other nation on Earth.  The question for everyone in this chamber, running through every decision we make this year, is whether we are going to help or hinder this progress.  For several years now, this town has been consumed by a rancorous argument over the proper size of the federal government.  It’s an important debate – one that dates back to our very founding.  But when that debate prevents us from carrying out even the most basic functions of our democracy – when our differences shut down government or threaten the full faith and credit of the United States – then we are not doing right by the American people.  As President, I’m committed to making Washington work better, and rebuilding the trust of the people who sent us here.  I believe most of you are, too.  Last month, thanks to the work of Democrats and Republicans, this Congress finally produced a budget that undoes some of last year’s severe cuts to priorities like education.  Nobody got everything they wanted, and we can still do more to invest in this country’s future while bringing down our deficit in a balanced way.  But the budget compromise should leave us freer to focus on creating new jobs, not creating new crises.  In the coming months, let’s see where else we can make progress together.  Let’s make this a year of action.  That’s what most Americans want – for all of us in this chamber to focus on their lives, their hopes, their aspirations.  And what I believe unites the people of this nation, regardless of race or region or party, young or old, rich or poor, is the simple, profound belief in opportunity for all – the notion that if you work hard and take responsibility, you can get ahead. Let’s face it: that belief has suffered some serious blows.  Over more than three decades, even before the Great Recession hit, massive shifts in technology and global competition had eliminated a lot of good, middle-class jobs, and weakened the economic foundations that families depend on. Today, after four years of economic growth, corporate profits and stock prices have rarely been higher, and those at the top have never done better.  But average wages have barely budged.  Inequality has deepened.  Upward mobility has stalled.  The cold, hard fact is that even in the midst of recovery, too many Americans are working more than ever just to get by – let alone get ahead.  And too many still aren’t working at all. Our job is to reverse these trends.  It won’t happen right away, and we won’t agree on everything.  But what I offer tonight is a set of concrete, practical proposals to speed up growth, strengthen the middle class, and build new ladders of opportunity into the middle class.  Some require Congressional action, and I’m eager to work with all of you.  But America does not stand still – and neither will I.  So wherever and whenever I can take steps without legislation to expand opportunity for more American families, that’s what I’m going to do.  As usual, our First Lady sets a good example.  Michelle’s Let’s Move partnership with schools, businesses, and local leaders has helped bring down childhood obesity rates for the first time in thirty years – an achievement that will improve lives and reduce health care costs for decades to come.  The Joining Forces alliance that Michelle and Jill Biden launched has already encouraged employers to hire or train nearly 400,000 veterans and military spouses.  Taking a page from that playbook, the White House just organized a College Opportunity Summit where already, 150 universities, businesses, and nonprofits have made concrete commitments to reduce inequality in access to higher education – and help every hardworking kid go to college and succeed when they get to campus.  Across the country, we’re partnering with mayors, governors, and state legislatures on issues from homelessness to marriage equality. The point is, there are millions of Americans outside Washington who are tired of stale political arguments, and are moving this country forward.  They believe, and I believe, that here in America, our success should depend not on accident of birth, but the strength of our work ethic and the scope of our dreams.  That’s what drew our forebears here.  It’s how the daughter of a factory worker is CEO of America’s largest automaker; how the son of a barkeeper is Speaker of the House; how the son of a single mom can be President of the greatest nation on Earth.   Opportunity is who we are.  And the defining project of our generation is to restore that promise.  We know where to start: the best measure of opportunity is access to a good job.  With the economy picking up speed, companies say they intend to hire more people this year.  And over half of big manufacturers say they’re thinking of insourcing jobs from abroad. So let’s make that decision easier for more companies.  Both Democrats and Republicans have argued that our tax code is riddled with wasteful, complicated loopholes that punish businesses investing here, and reward companies that keep profits abroad.  Let’s flip that equation.  Let’s work together to close those loopholes, end those incentives to ship jobs overseas, and lower tax rates for businesses that create jobs here at home. Moreover, we can take the money we save with this transition to tax reform to create jobs rebuilding our roads, upgrading our ports, unclogging our commutes – because in today’s global economy, first-class jobs gravitate to first-class infrastructure.  We’ll need Congress to protect more than three million jobs by finishing transportation and waterways bills this summer.  But I will act on my own to slash bureaucracy and streamline the permitting process for key projects, so we can get more construction workers on the job as fast as possible. We also have the chance, right now, to beat other countries in the race for the next wave of high-tech manufacturing jobs.  My administration has launched two hubs for high-tech manufacturing in Raleigh and Youngstown, where we’ve connected businesses to research universities that can help America lead the world in advanced technologies.  Tonight, I’m announcing we’ll launch six more this year.  Bipartisan bills in both houses could double the number of these hubs and the jobs they create.  So get those bills to my desk and put more Americans back to work.  Let’s do more to help the entrepreneurs and small business owners who create most new jobs in America.  Over the past five years, my administration has made more loans to small business owners than any other.  And when ninety-eight percent of our exporters are small businesses, new trade partnerships with Europe and the Asia-Pacific will help them create more jobs.  We need to work together on tools like bipartisan trade promotion authority to protect our workers, protect our environment, and open new markets to new goods stamped “Made in the USA.”  China and Europe aren’t standing on the sidelines.  Neither should we. We know that the nation that goes all-in on innovation today will own the global economy tomorrow.  This is an edge America cannot surrender.  Federally-funded research helped lead to the ideas and inventions behind Google and smartphones.  That’s why Congress should undo the damage done by last year’s cuts to basic research so we can unleash the next great American discovery – whether it’s vaccines that stay ahead of drug-resistant bacteria, or paper-thin material that’s stronger than steel.  And let’s pass a patent reform bill that allows our businesses to stay focused on innovation, not costly, needless litigation. Now, one of the biggest factors in bringing more jobs back is our commitment to American energy.  The all-of-the-above energy strategy I announced a few years ago is working, and today, America is closer to energy independence than we’ve been in decades. One of the reasons why is natural gas – if extracted safely, it’s the bridge fuel that can power our economy with less of the carbon pollution that causes climate change.  Businesses plan to invest almost $100 billion in new factories that use natural gas.  I’ll cut red tape to help states get those factories built, and this Congress can help by putting people to work building fueling stations that shift more cars and trucks from foreign oil to American natural gas.  My administration will keep working with the industry to sustain production and job growth while strengthening protection of our air, our water, and our communities.  And while we’re at it, I’ll use my authority to protect more of our pristine federal lands for future generations.   It’s not just oil and natural gas production that’s booming; we’re becoming a global leader in solar, too.  Every four minutes, another American home or business goes solar; every panel pounded into place by a worker whose job can’t be outsourced.  Let’s continue that progress with a smarter tax policy that stops giving $4 billion a year to fossil fuel industries that don’t need it, so that we can invest more in fuels of the future that do.  And even as we’ve increased energy production, we’ve partnered with businesses, builders, and local communities to reduce the energy we consume.  When we rescued our automakers, for example, we worked with them to set higher fuel efficiency standards for our cars.  In the coming months, I’ll build on that success by setting new standards for our trucks, so we can keep driving down oil imports and what we pay at the pump. Taken together, our energy policy is creating jobs and leading to a cleaner, safer planet.  Over the past eight years, the United States has reduced our total carbon pollution more than any other nation on Earth.  But we have to act with more urgency – because a changing climate is already harming western communities struggling with drought, and coastal cities dealing with floods.  That’s why I directed my administration to work with states, utilities, and others to set new standards on the amount of carbon pollution our power plants are allowed to dump into the air.  The shift to a cleaner energy economy won’t happen overnight, and it will require tough choices along the way.  But the debate is settled.  Climate change is a fact.  And when our children’s children look us in the eye and ask if we did all we could to leave them a safer, more stable world, with new sources of energy, I want us to be able to say yes, we did.  Finally, if we are serious about economic growth, it is time to heed the call of business leaders, labor leaders, faith leaders, and law enforcement – and fix our broken immigration system.  Republicans and Democrats in the Senate have acted.  I know that members of both parties in the House want to do the same.  Independent economists say immigration reform will grow our economy and shrink our deficits by almost $1 trillion in the next two decades.  And for good reason: when people come here to fulfill their dreams – to study, invent, and contribute to our culture – they make our country a more attractive place for businesses to locate and create jobs for everyone.  So let’s get immigration reform done this year. The ideas I’ve outlined so far can speed up growth and create more jobs.  But in this rapidly-changing economy, we have to make sure that every American has the skills to fill those jobs.  The good news is, we know how to do it.  Two years ago, as the auto industry came roaring back, Andra Rush opened up a manufacturing firm in Detroit.  She knew that Ford needed parts for the best-selling truck in America, and she knew how to make them.  She just needed the workforce.  So she dialed up what we call an American Job Center – places where folks can walk in to get the help or training they need to find a new job, or better job.  She was flooded with new workers.  And today, Detroit Manufacturing Systems has more than 700 employees.  What Andra and her employees experienced is how it should be for every employer – and every job seeker.  So tonight, I’ve asked Vice President Biden to lead an across-the-board reform of America’s training programs to make sure they have one mission: train Americans with the skills employers need, and match them to good jobs that need to be filled right now.  That means more on-the-job training, and more apprenticeships that set a young worker on an upward trajectory for life.  It means connecting companies to community colleges that can help design training to fill their specific needs.  And if Congress wants to help, you can concentrate funding on proven programs that connect more ready-to-work Americans with ready-to-be-filled jobs. I’m also convinced we can help Americans return to the workforce faster by reforming unemployment insurance so that it’s more effective in today’s economy.  But first, this Congress needs to restore the unemployment insurance you just let expire for 1.6 million people.  Let me tell you why.  Misty DeMars is a mother of two young boys. She’d been steadily employed since she was a teenager.  She put herself through college.  She’d never collected unemployment benefits.  In May, she and her husband used their life savings to buy their first home.  A week later, budget cuts claimed the job she loved.  Last month, when their unemployment insurance was cut off, she sat down and wrote me a letter – the kind I get every day.  “We are the face of the unemployment crisis,” she wrote.  “I am not dependent on the government…Our country depends on people like us who build careers, contribute to society…care about our neighbors…I am confident that in time I will find a job…I will pay my taxes, and we will raise our children in their own home in the community we love.  Please give us this chance.” Congress, give these hardworking, responsible Americans that chance.  They need our help, but more important, this country needs them in the game.  That’s why I’ve been asking CEOs to give more long-term unemployed workers a fair shot at that new job and new chance to support their families; this week, many will come to the White House to make that commitment real.  Tonight, I ask every business leader in America to join us and to do the same – because we are stronger when America fields a full team.   Of course, it’s not enough to train today’s workforce.  We also have to prepare tomorrow’s workforce, by guaranteeing every child access to a world-class education. Estiven Rodriguez couldn’t speak a word of English when he moved to New York City at age nine.  But last month, thanks to the support of great teachers and an innovative tutoring program, he led a march of his classmates – through a crowd of cheering parents and neighbors – from their high school to the post office, where they mailed off their college applications.  And this son of a factory worker just found out he’s going to college this fall. Five years ago, we set out to change the odds for all our kids.  We worked with lenders to reform student loans, and today, more young people are earning college degrees than ever before.  Race to the Top, with the help of governors from both parties, has helped states raise expectations and performance.  Teachers and principals in schools from Tennessee to Washington, D.C. are making big strides in preparing students with skills for the new economy – problem solving, critical thinking, science, technology, engineering, and math.  Some of this change is hard.  It requires everything from more challenging curriculums and more demanding parents to better support for teachers and new ways to measure how well our kids think, not how well they can fill in a bubble on a test.  But it’s worth it – and it’s working.  The problem is we’re still not reaching enough kids, and we’re not reaching them in time.  That has to change.   Research shows that one of the best investments we can make in a child’s life is high-quality early education.  Last year, I asked this Congress to help states make high-quality pre-K available to every four year-old.  As a parent as well as a President, I repeat that request tonight. But in the meantime, thirty states have raised pre-K funding on their own.  They know we can’t wait.  So just as we worked with states to reform our schools, this year, we’ll invest in new partnerships with states and communities across the country in a race to the top for our youngest children.  And as Congress decides what it’s going to do, I’m going to pull together a coalition of elected officials, business leaders, and philanthropists willing to help more kids access the high-quality pre-K they need. Last year, I also pledged to connect 99 percent of our students to high-speed broadband over the next four years.  Tonight, I can announce that with the support of the FCC and companies like Apple, Microsoft, Sprint, and Verizon, we’ve got a down payment to start connecting more than 15,000 schools and twenty million students over the next two years, without adding a dime to the deficit.  We’re working to redesign high schools and partner them with colleges and employers that offer the real-world education and hands-on training that can lead directly to a job and career.  We’re shaking up our system of higher education to give parents more information, and colleges more incentives to offer better value, so that no middle-class kid is priced out of a college education.  We’re offering millions the opportunity to cap their monthly student loan payments to ten percent of their income, and I want to work with Congress to see how we can help even more Americans who feel trapped by student loan debt.  And I’m reaching out to some of America’s leading foundations and corporations on a new initiative to help more young men of color facing tough odds stay on track and reach their full potential. The bottom line is, Michelle and I want every child to have the same chance this country gave us.  But we know our opportunity agenda won’t be complete – and too many young people entering the workforce today will see the American Dream as an empty promise – unless we do more to make sure our economy honors the dignity of work, and hard work pays off for every single American.  Today, women make up about half our workforce.  But they still make 77 cents for every dollar a man earns.  That is wrong, and in 2014, it’s an embarrassment. A woman deserves equal pay for equal work.  She deserves to have a baby without sacrificing her job.  A mother deserves a day off to care for a sick child or sick parent without running into hardship – and you know what, a father does, too.  It’s time to do away with workplace policies that belong in a “Mad Men” episode.  This year, let’s all come together – Congress, the White House, and businesses from Wall Street to Main Street – to give every woman the opportunity she deserves.  Because I firmly believe when women succeed, America succeeds. Now, women hold a majority of lower-wage jobs – but they’re not the only ones stifled by stagnant wages.  Americans understand that some people will earn more than others, and we don’t resent those who, by virtue of their efforts, achieve incredible success.  But Americans overwhelmingly agree that no one who works full time should ever have to raise a family in poverty. In the year since I asked this Congress to raise the minimum wage, five states have passed laws to raise theirs.  Many businesses have done it on their own.  Nick Chute is here tonight with his boss, John Soranno.  John’s an owner of Punch Pizza in Minneapolis, and Nick helps make the dough.  Only now he makes more of it: John just gave his employees a raise, to ten bucks an hour – a decision that eased their financial stress and boosted their morale. Tonight, I ask more of America’s business leaders to follow John’s lead and do what you can to raise your employees’ wages.  To every mayor, governor, and state legislator in America, I say, you don’t have to wait for Congress to act; Americans will support you if you take this on.  And as a chief executive, I intend to lead by example. Profitable corporations like Costco see higher wages as the smart way to boost productivity and reduce turnover. We should too.  In the coming weeks, I will issue an Executive Order requiring federal contractors to pay their federally-funded employees a fair wage of at least $10.10 an hour – because if you cook our troops’ meals or wash their dishes, you shouldn’t have to live in poverty. Of course, to reach millions more, Congress needs to get on board. Today, the federal minimum wage is worth about twenty percent less than it was when Ronald Reagan first stood here.  Tom Harkin and George Miller have a bill to fix that by lifting the minimum wage to $10.10.  This will help families.  It will give businesses customers with more money to spend.  It doesn’t involve any new bureaucratic program.  So join the rest of the country.  Say yes.  Give America a raise. There are other steps we can take to help families make ends meet, and few are more effective at reducing inequality and helping families pull themselves up through hard work than the Earned Income Tax Credit.  Right now, it helps about half of all parents at some point.  But I agree with Republicans like Senator Rubio that it doesn’t do enough for single workers who don’t have kids.  So let’s work together to strengthen the credit, reward work, and help more Americans get ahead. Let’s do more to help Americans save for retirement. Today, most workers don’t have a pension.  A Social Security check often isn’t enough on its own.  And while the stock market has doubled over the last five years, that doesn’t help folks who don’t have 401ks.  That’s why, tomorrow, I will direct the Treasury to create a new way for working Americans to start their own retirement savings: MyRA. It’s a new savings bond that encourages folks to build a nest egg.  MyRA guarantees a decent return with no risk of losing what you put in.  And if this Congress wants to help, work with me to fix an upside-down tax code that gives big tax breaks to help the wealthy save, but does little to nothing for middle-class Americans.  Offer every American access to an automatic IRA on the job, so they can save at work just like everyone in this chamber can.  And since the most important investment many families make is their home, send me legislation that protects taxpayers from footing the bill for a housing crisis ever again, and keeps the dream of homeownership alive for future generations of Americans. One last point on financial security.  For decades, few things exposed hard-working families to economic hardship more than a broken health care system.  And in case you haven’t heard, we’re in the process of fixing that.  A pre-existing condition used to mean that someone like Amanda Shelley, a physician assistant and single mom from Arizona, couldn’t get health insurance.  But on January 1st, she got covered.  On January 3rd, she felt a sharp pain.  On January 6th, she had emergency surgery.  Just one week earlier, Amanda said, that surgery would’ve meant bankruptcy. That’s what health insurance reform is all about – the peace of mind that if misfortune strikes, you don’t have to lose everything.  Already, because of the Affordable Care Act, more than three million Americans under age 26 have gained coverage under their parents’ plans. More than nine million Americans have signed up for private health insurance or Medicaid coverage. And here’s another number: zero.  Because of this law, no American can ever again be dropped or denied coverage for a preexisting condition like asthma, back pain, or cancer. No woman can ever be charged more just because she’s a woman.  And we did all this while adding years to Medicare’s finances, keeping Medicare premiums flat, and lowering prescription costs for millions of seniors.  Now, I don’t expect to convince my Republican friends on the merits of this law.  But I know that the American people aren’t interested in refighting old battles.  So again, if you have specific plans to cut costs, cover more people, and increase choice – tell America what you’d do differently.  Let’s see if the numbers add up.  But let’s not have another forty-something votes to repeal a law that’s already helping millions of Americans like Amanda.  The first forty were plenty.  We got it.  We all owe it to the American people to say what we’re for, not just what we’re against.  And if you want to know the real impact this law is having, just talk to Governor Steve Beshear of Kentucky, who’s here tonight.  Kentucky’s not the most liberal part of the country, but he’s like a man possessed when it comes to covering his commonwealth’s families.  “They are our friends and neighbors,” he said.  “They are people we shop and go to church with…farmers out on the tractors…grocery clerks…they are people who go to work every morning praying they don’t get sick.  No one deserves to live that way.”  Steve’s right.  That’s why, tonight, I ask every American who knows someone without health insurance to help them get covered by March 31st.  Moms, get on your kids to sign up.  Kids, call your mom and walk her through the application.  It will give her some peace of mind – plus, she’ll appreciate hearing from you.  After all, that’s the spirit that has always moved this nation forward.  It’s the spirit of citizenship – the recognition that through hard work and responsibility, we can pursue our individual dreams, but still come together as one American family to make sure the next generation can pursue its dreams as well. Citizenship means standing up for everyone’s right to vote.  Last year, part of the Voting Rights Act was weakened.  But conservative Republicans and liberal Democrats are working together to strengthen it; and the bipartisan commission I appointed last year has offered reforms so that no one has to wait more than a half hour to vote.  Let’s support these efforts.  It should be the power of our vote, not the size of our bank account, that drives our democracy. Citizenship means standing up for the lives that gun violence steals from us each day.  I have seen the courage of parents, students, pastors, and police officers all over this country who say “we are not afraid,” and I intend to keep trying, with or without Congress, to help stop more tragedies from visiting innocent Americans in our movie theaters, shopping malls, or schools like Sandy Hook. Citizenship demands a sense of common cause; participation in the hard work of self-government; an obligation to serve to our communities.  And I know this chamber agrees that few Americans give more to their country than our diplomats and the men and women of the United States Armed Forces. Tonight, because of the extraordinary troops and civilians who risk and lay down their lives to keep us free, the United States is more secure.  When I took office, nearly 180,000 Americans were serving in Iraq and Afghanistan.  Today, all our troops are out of Iraq.  More than 60,000 of our troops have already come home from Afghanistan.  With Afghan forces now in the lead for their own security, our troops have moved to a support role. Together with our allies, we will complete our mission there by the end of this year, and America’s longest war will finally be over. After 2014, we will support a unified Afghanistan as it takes responsibility for its own future.  If the Afghan government signs a security agreement that we have negotiated, a small force of Americans could remain in Afghanistan with NATO allies to carry out two narrow missions: training and assisting Afghan forces, and counterterrorism operations to pursue any remnants of al Qaeda.  For while our relationship with Afghanistan will change, one thing will not: our resolve that terrorists do not launch attacks against our country  The fact is, that danger remains.  While we have put al Qaeda’s core leadership on a path to defeat, the threat has evolved, as al Qaeda affiliates and other extremists take root in different parts of the world. In Yemen, Somalia, Iraq, and Mali, we have to keep working with partners to disrupt and disable these networks. In Syria, we’ll support the opposition that rejects  the agenda of terrorist networks. Here at home, we’ll keep strengthening our defenses, and combat new threats like cyberattacks.  And as we reform our defense budget, we have to keep faith with our men and women in uniform, and invest in the capabilities they need to succeed in future missions. We have to remain vigilant.  But I strongly believe our leadership and our security cannot depend on our military alone. As Commander-in-Chief, I have used force when needed to protect the American people, and I will never hesitate to do so as long as I hold this office.  But I will not send our troops into harm’s way unless it’s truly necessary; nor will I allow our sons and daughters to be mired in open-ended conflicts.  We must fight the battles that need to be fought, not those that terrorists prefer from us – large-scale deployments that drain our strength and may ultimately feed extremism. So, even as we aggressively pursue terrorist networks – through more targeted efforts and by building the capacity of our foreign partners – America must move off a permanent war footing.  That’s why I’ve imposed prudent limits on the use of drones – for we will not be safer if people abroad believe we strike within their countries without regard for the consequence.  That’s why, working with this Congress, I will reform our surveillance programs – because the vital work of our intelligence community depends on public confidence, here and abroad, that the privacy of ordinary people is not being violated.  And with the Afghan war ending, this needs to be the year Congress lifts the remaining restrictions on detainee transfers and we close the prison at Guantanamo Bay – because we counter terrorism not just through intelligence and military action, but by remaining true to our Constitutional ideals, and setting an example for the rest of the world  You see, in a world of complex threats, our security and leadership depends on all elements of our power – including strong and principled diplomacy.  American diplomacy has rallied more than fifty countries to prevent nuclear materials from falling into the wrong hands, and allowed us to reduce our own reliance on Cold War stockpiles.  American diplomacy, backed by the threat of force, is why Syria’s chemical weapons are being eliminated, and we will continue to work with the international community to usher in the future the Syrian people deserve – a future free of dictatorship, terror and fear. As we speak, American diplomacy is supporting Israelis and Palestinians as they engage in difficult but necessary talks to end the conflict there; to achieve dignity and an independent state for Palestinians, and lasting peace and security for the State of Israel – a Jewish state that knows America will always be at their side.  And it is American diplomacy, backed by pressure, that has halted the progress of Iran’s nuclear program – and rolled parts of that program back – for the very first time in a decade.  As we gather here tonight, Iran has begun to eliminate its stockpile of higher levels of enriched uranium.  It is not installing advanced centrifuges.  Unprecedented inspections help the world verify, every day, that Iran is not building a bomb.  And with our allies and partners, we’re engaged in negotiations to see if we can peacefully achieve a goal we all share: preventing Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon. These negotiations will be difficult.  They may not succeed.  We are clear-eyed about Iran’s support for terrorist organizations like Hezbollah, which threaten our allies; and the mistrust between our nations cannot be wished away.  But these negotiations do not rely on trust; any long-term deal we agree to must be based on verifiable action that convinces us and the international community that Iran is not building a nuclear bomb.  If John F. Kennedy and Ronald Reagan could negotiate with the Soviet Union, then surely a strong and confident America can negotiate with less powerful adversaries today. The sanctions that we put in place helped make this opportunity possible.  But let me be clear: if this Congress sends me a new sanctions bill now that threatens to derail these talks, I will veto it.  For the sake of our national security, we must give diplomacy a chance to succeed.  If Iran’s leaders do not seize this opportunity, then I will be the first to call for more sanctions, and stand ready to exercise all options to make sure Iran does not build a nuclear weapon.  But if Iran’s leaders do seize the chance, then Iran could take an important step to rejoin the community of nations, and we will have resolved one of the leading security challenges of our time without the risks of war.  Finally, let’s remember that our leadership is defined not just by our defense against threats, but by the enormous opportunities to do good and promote understanding around the globe – to forge greater cooperation, to expand new markets, to free people from fear and want.  And no one is better positioned to take advantage of those opportunities than America.  Our alliance with Europe remains the strongest the world has ever known.  From Tunisia to Burma, we’re supporting those who are willing to do the hard work of building democracy.  In Ukraine, we stand for the principle that all people have the right to express themselves freely and peacefully, and have a say in their country’s future.  Across Africa, we’re bringing together businesses and governments to double access to electricity and help end extreme poverty.  In the Americas, we are building new ties of commerce, but we’re also expanding cultural and educational exchanges among young people.  And we will continue to focus on the Asia-Pacific, where we support our allies, shape a future of greater security and prosperity, and extend a hand to those devastated by disaster – as we did in the Philippines, when our Marines and civilians rushed to aid those battered by a typhoon, and were greeted with words like, “We will never forget your kindness” and “God bless America!” We do these things because they help promote our long-term security.  And we do them because we believe in the inherent dignity and equality of every human being, regardless of race or religion, creed or sexual orientation.  And next week, the world will see one expression of that commitment – when Team USA marches the red, white, and blue into the Olympic Stadium – and brings home the gold.  My fellow Americans, no other country in the world does what we do.  On every issue, the world turns to us, not simply because of the size of our economy or our military might – but because of the ideals we stand for, and the burdens we bear to advance them. No one knows this better than those who serve in uniform.  As this time of war draws to a close, a new generation of heroes returns to civilian life.  We’ll keep slashing that backlog so our veterans receive the benefits they’ve earned, and our wounded warriors receive the health care – including the mental health care – that they need.  We’ll keep working to help all our veterans translate their skills and leadership into jobs here at home.  And we all continue to join forces to honor and support our remarkable military families. Let me tell you about one of those families I’ve come to know. I first met Cory Remsburg, a proud Army Ranger, at Omaha Beach on the 65th anniversary of D-Day.  Along with some of his fellow Rangers, he walked me through the program – a strong, impressive young man, with an easy manner, sharp as a tack.  We joked around, and took pictures, and I told him to stay in touch. A few months later, on his tenth deployment, Cory was nearly killed by a massive roadside bomb in Afghanistan. His comrades found him in a canal, face down, underwater, shrapnel in his brain.  For months, he lay in a coma.  The next time I met him, in the hospital, he couldn’t speak; he could barely move.  Over the years, he’s endured dozens of surgeries and procedures, and hours of grueling rehab every day.  Even now, Cory is still blind in one eye.  He still struggles on his left side.  But slowly, steadily, with the support of caregivers like his dad Craig, and the community around him, Cory has grown stronger. Day by day, he’s learned to speak again and stand again and walk again – and he’s working toward the day when he can serve his country again.  “My recovery has not been easy,” he says. “Nothing in life that’s worth anything is easy.”  Cory is here tonight.  And like the Army he loves, like the America he serves, Sergeant First Class Cory Remsburg never gives up, and he does not quit.  My fellow Americans, men and women like Cory remind us that America has never come easy.  Our freedom, our democracy, has never been easy.  Sometimes we stumble; we make mistakes; we get frustrated or discouraged.  But for more than two hundred years, we have put those things aside and placed our collective shoulder to the wheel of progress – to create and build and expand the possibilities of individual achievement; to free other nations from tyranny and fear; to promote justice, and fairness, and equality under the law, so that the words set to paper by our founders are made real for every citizen.  The America we want for our kids – a rising America where honest work is plentiful and communities are strong; where prosperity is widely shared and opportunity for all lets us go as far as our dreams and toil will take us – none of it is easy.  But if we work together; if we summon what is best in us, with our feet planted firmly in today but our eyes cast towards tomorrow – I know it’s within our reach.  Believe it. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. FREE AppDownload
FactsAboutHerbalife.comBill Ackman has just sent a letter to investors in Pershing Square that Shane Dinneen — the analyst who did most of the work on Ackman's infamous Herbalife short — has resigned. Here's the letter: Dear Pershing Square Investor, For several months, Shane Dinneen, a member of our investment team since late 2007, has expressed interest in leaving Pershing Square to pursue other interests.  As Shane is one of the most talented investment analysts I have ever worked with and someone I hold in high regard, I have done my best to convince him to stay with the firm.  Recently, he decided it was time for him to move on to areas of his own interest outside of activist investing.  Shane has been a great contributor to Pershing Square.  Shane did superb work on GGP, Burger King, andmost recently Herbalife in addition to many other successful investments.  As our Herbalife investment has moved from financial analysis to a regulatory and legal execution, Shane has not been leading this investment for some time.  Roy Katzovicz, our Chief Legal Officer, and David Klafter, Senior Counsel, have led the Herbalife regulatory effort over the past year and have made significant progress. We wish Shane success in his future endeavors and have let him know that we will keep a seat open for him on the investment team if and when he decides to return.  Shane intends to remain a meaningful investor in Pershing Square. With respect to Herbalife, we remain convinced that the Company has operated an illegal pyramid scheme since its founding.  We are encouraged by the recent regulatory developments concerning the Company.   Sincerely,   Bill FREE AppDownload
If history is any indicator, stocks will barely budge tomorrow in response to President Obama's State Of The Union address this evening. In a note this evening from LPL Financial's Jeff Kleintop, the S&amp;P 500 has averaged just 0.15% since FDR on the trading day following the speech, which will take place at 9 p.m. Eastern. Here's his chart: LPL FinancialWhat's more, stock moves are often unrelated to issues referenced in the speech: Kleintop notes some of the biggest post-SOTU gains and losses have come from coincidental Fed announcements or in response to key economic data.   But that doesn't meant there won't be any reaction. Kleintop says he'll be listening for specifics on three items that could lead to market responses: reinstating tax cuts, energy independence, and housing finance. "Any mention from the President on a push to reinstate the tax cuts that recently expired would be welcome news for stocks in the industrials sector, he writes. "Reinstating the tax benefits of accelerated depreciation and the research and development tax credit in an effort to promote growth and jobs could be a boost to capital goods producers in the industrials sector." Meanwhile energy producers could see gains — and oil refiners could see losses — if President Obama makes any suggestion of further expanding infrastructure or exports, he says. Refiners currently enjoy higher margins thanks to the discount in the spread between U.S. and London traded oil contracts. That spread would be narrowed if Obama were to make some kind of reference to expediting approval of the Keystone XL Pipeline. On the other hand, Kleintop writes, more encouraging words about addressing climate change could negatively impact both subsectors. Finally, mortgage-heavy banks could be impacted by any references to further expanding housing credit, Kleintop notes. FREE AppDownload
CNBC/Joseph K. MooreJoseph K. MooreJoseph K. Moore, president and CEO of First Defense Nasal Screens, is a "Shark Tank" legend. At the end of his pitch, most of the sharks were making offers, and Robert Herjavec offered him $4 million for the entire business—the largest offer in the show's history. Moore turned it down. What was it about his presentation that sent the sharks into a feeding frenzy? He pitched a lightweight nasal screen that reduces the inhalation of allergens, pollen and pollution, and asked for $500,000 for a 10 percent stake. The sharks thought it was a joke at first, with Mark Cuban asking, "Are you kidding me?" But when Moore said he had sold 1.7 million units at 60 cents wholesale, with a client overseas who had given him an $8 million contract, they realized the product's full potential. They started making multiple offers, including the record-breaking $4 million. Not wanting to sell the entire business, Moore instead accepted a joint offer on the show with Kevin O'Leary, Daymond John and Cuban for $750,000 for a 30 percent stake and a 10 percent perpetual royalty. Cuban had to kick in season tickets to Mavericks games. So, how has First Defense Nasal Screens been doing since Moore's appearance? What is it like to turn down millions of dollars on national TV? And how much would he have been willing to sell his company for? Check out the Q&amp;A with Joseph K. Moore. How would you describe the 'Shark Tank' effect on your business? The effects have been tremendous. ... We are now in 30 countries and should be totally global within the next 12 months. We also have a new size for Asia, and have two patents finalized and more pending worldwide. What was the immediate impact on your business after the show premiered? We were overrun with orders, thank-you's and distributor inquiries. We had our website built to handle large volume, and it still went down as it couldn't handle the traffic. What's your advice for prospective business people who are about to go into the tank? Be prepared, don't be greedy but also don't be willing to give it away. Stand your ground if you believe in your product, and of course know your valuation. What was your biggest surprise from appearing on the show? My biggest surprise—besides all the traffic and orders and interest—is how many people contacted me from around the world after they saw [the show] in their country. ... I just heard from people in Portugal and Panama who just saw it as it continues to air globally. Also, how many people recognized me when I was traveling. One guy recognized me at my hotel in Hong Kong. He was from Madrid, a renowned designer, and when someone tried to introduce me he said, 'I know him—he's my hero. ... He's a celebrity; he turned down the largest contract in TV history.' It made me really realize how much "Shark Tank" had done for us, how vast an audience it has and what a small world it is. Can you tell us anything that happened that didn't make it onto the show? Your favorite thing left on the cutting-room floor? The main thing I can think of is when Mark Cuban asked me if there was an amount he could write a check for and buy the company, and I said, '$10 million and a small residual.' I thought they would show that. More bite is coming to Tuesday nights on CNBC. Get ready for "Shark Tank" on Tuesdays, 8 p.m. to 12 a.m. Watch Joseph K. Moore enter the tank Tuesday, Jan. 28 at 8 p.m. ET. FREE AppDownload
Asian markets are up nicely following the Central Bank Of Turkey's decision to dramatically raise borrowing rates to stem the decline of the Turkish lira. Japan's Nikkei index is up nearly 1.5%. Korea's Kospi is up 0.62%. Australia's S&amp;P/ASX200 is up 0.37%. U.S. futures were also pointing higher. Here's the chart for the Nikkei: Marketwatch FREE AppDownload
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. LIZ ANN SONDERS: We Could See A 10% Correction, But The Bull Market Isn't Over (Investment News)  Speaking at the Inside ETFs conference in Florida, Liz Ann Sonders, chief investment strategist at Charles Schwab, said that she sees a "slightly elevated risk of a 10% correction this year ." However, she went on to add, "I don't think the secular bull market is over," reports Jeff Benjamin at Investment News.  Sonders thinks increased capital expenditure spending will help drive the bull market and added that inflation isn't a threat just yet. While she thinks concerns about profit margins are valid, she added that "unless you're rolling over into a crash, it has not been historically a problem for the market coming off all-time highs in profit margins." What It Takes To Be A Successful Investment Manager (Vanguard)  John 'Jack' Granahan, a veteran portfolio manager for Vanguard at Wellington Management and then his own firm, Granahan Investment Management, identified the most important qualities that an investment manager needs to be successful.   "I've found that a long-term outlook is very important," Granahan said. "Some might question how much you can know about the long-term prospects of small emerging growth companies, the focus of our firm. But small-cap growth requires the imagination to look beyond the current quarter or the current year, to take a longer view." In terms of personal temperament he thinks successful investment managers need to be curious and humble. "You really have to avoid the stubbornness, and I think a dose of humility really comes in handy. …On the other hand, you have to have confidence too. One does get challenged in this business, but experience and knowledge will improve one's confidence that overall your batting average is going to be good." Of course they also need to emphasize in-depth research and building relationships with management of companies they invest in. The CFA Pass Rate Climbs To 43% In December Exam (Business Insider)  The Level I Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) pass rate climbed to 43% for the December exam. This is up from 37% a year ago. 45,693 candidates took the exam in December. "The financial community is dealing with a crisis of investor trust, and industry education at all levels is a critical part of rebuilding that trust," John Rogers, CFA, president and CEO of CFA Institute said in a press release. "The next generation of investment professionals is instrumental in shaping the future of finance, and each one of these successful candidates has the opportunity to build the kind of industry culture that puts investors first and better serves society." The Top 5 Next Generation IBD Advisors (WealthManagement.com) Megan Leonhardt at WealthManagement.com is out with a list of the top 20 next  generation independent broker/dealers. These IBD advisors are haven't hit middle age yet and are ranked by assets under management (AUM). We picked the top 5. 1. Jamie Cox of Harris Financial Group (LPL Financial) with $417 million in AUM; 2. Christopher W. Hall of Wells Fargo Advisors Financial Network with $322 million in AUM; 3. Tony Christensen of Wells Fargo Advisors Financial Network with $305 million in AUM; 4. Benjamin Rickey of Leonard Rickey Investment Advisors (LPL Financial) with $304 million in AUM; 5. Justin Harris of Cassaday &amp; Company (Royal Alliance) with $301 million in AUM. Broker Dealers Should Stop Trading Old Advisors (FA Mag) Speaking at the Financial Services Institute's annual conference in Washington DC, Mark Tibergien, CEO of Pershing Advisor Solutions said brooder dealers need to invest in youth instead of recruiting older advisors. "This is a business built for and by boomers, but it isn't a business for boomer [clients anymore], it's for Gen X and Gen Y," Tibergien is quoted saying by FA Mag. FREE AppDownload
Rob Wile/Business InsiderIt is no longer a question of if but how New York plans to regulate virtual currencies. Luckily for their most passionate evangelists, the head of the state's financial regulatory body believes they could hold great promise, despite their evident potential for facilitating crimes. Following the first of two days' worth of hearings on how state law might treat Bitcoin, Litecoin and their digital cousins, New York Department of Financial Services Superintendent Benjamin Lawsky admitted to reporters he'd initially been quite wary of them, but that he's since come around to their possible usefulness. "You start to get your mind around the potential future applications of these currencies, many of which I think  even the people in this room can't yet fully predict, but that there is potentially a lot of promise," he said. "If we can get a handle and put some of the guardrails in place to prevent crimes from happening, then we can feel more comfortable in sit back and looking at the promise and future of this." Lawsky said he faces two principal options in deciding how to regulate. One is to work from existing financial laws to wrangle the currency. The other would be to issue what the Department has tentatively called BitLicenses that would entail special rules for businesses that work with digital currencies. Lawsky did not say which way he was leaning, but that he hoped a decision would be made in a matter of months. Hanging over the proceedings was the arrest yesterday of Charlie Shrem, the head of Bitcoin exchange BitInstant and an individual regarded by some a "face of Bitcoin," on money laundering charges. Two of the first five panelists — namely, Cameron and Tyler  Winklevoss — had invested in BitInstant, and Lawsky's first question was how the state consider the development. The brothers did not address the issue directly, but agreed with other panelists that Shrem's arrest showed existing regulations are adequate to stopping bad actors. That did not entirely convince Lawsky, who invoked the illicit funding mechanisms used to pay for the 9/11 attacks to show the potential dangers of virtual currency transmission. "We're always going to choose to squelch money launderers...even if it prevents 1,000 flowers from blooming," he said.      Fred Wilson of Union Square Ventures offered up his own proposal, suggesting startups be allowed "a safe harbor" exemption period from regulation during their initial months of existence to avoid additional up front costs. The regulators, which included three other lawyers from the Department, seemed less receptive to that idea. The first day's panel comprised mostly Bitcoin advocates and investors, and much of their testimony consisted of arguments for Bitcoin's inherent safety. "Cash is untraceable — Bitcoin is not," Tyler Winklevoss said, referring to the fact that all Bitcoin transactions are logged on a master ledger. On Wednesday, we'll hear from New York district attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. and a representative from the Justice Department. Merchants including Overstock.com CEO Patrick Byrne, along with academics, will also testify.  FREE AppDownload
 Revenues slipped 2% to $1.2 billion in Q4 2013, but the stock tanked immediately after hours when investors realized that the underlying core business of Yahoo — display ads — declined 6% to $520 million during the last quarter, and down 9% to $1.9 billion for the full year.And then Yahoo lowered its guidance for the current quarter. And then it declined to give full-year guidance in favor of a vague promise that there will be growth in late 2014. CFO Ken Goldman also admitted during the call that the company cut jobs in Q4 — even though that period is usually the biggest and busiest at companies dependent on ads. In other words, this is one of very few major online advertising businesses that is somehow unable to increase its revenue during one of the greatest bull markets in ad sales the planet has ever seen. Internet ad revenue generally was trending up 18% last year. A few days ago, Mayer fired the man she had hired only one year before to generate ad revenue. COO Henrique De Castro walked out the door with a $109 million pay packet. The fact that he was Mayer's choice, and that he delivered such rotten results, shows you how far from the mark she is right now. That, perhaps is why Mayer said on the call that she would not replace him and instead personally take a more active role in ad sales. And where is the revenue from Tumblr, acquired in the middle of 2013 for $1 billion? Not mentioned, again, in the earnings release. Tumblr is one of Yahoo's traffic bright spots, and its addicted users churn through hundreds of millions of pageviews a month. Yet it makes negligible revenues. YahooCEO Marissa Mayer and CFO Ken Goldman.Here are the top and bottom lines: That's a huge beat on the bottom line. The stock rose 1.4% after hours but then immediately declined nearly 6% when it emerged that Yahoo's display ad business had gotten smaller again — this time by 6%. Yahoo also lowered its guidance to below analysts' expectations, according to CNBC: Meanwhile, Yahoo said it expects current-quarter non-GAAP net income of between $130 million and $170 million, well below forecasts. In addition, the company sees current-quarter sales of between $1.06 billion $1.1 billion ex-tac, versus expectations for $1.08 billion. The bottom line for the full year was hurt somewhat because it compared poorly with the year before, when Yahoo benefitted from a sale of Alibaba stock. Alibaba is the huge Chinese trading site that Yahoo owns a valuable stake in: GAAP net earnings for the full year of 2013 was $1,366 million, a 65 percent decrease compared to $3,945 million for the prior year (which included a net gain related to the sale of Alibaba Group shares of $2,755 million). But Yahoo is still contracting as a company. Here are the top line revenues over time: Yahoo The mix of ad prices to total ads sold is hurting Yahoo over time, with search performing better than display: Yahoo Once again, Yahoo's display ad business withered while its search ad business picked up the slack: CEO Marissa Mayer glossed over her shrinking media sales business and asked investors to focus on the traffic increases: "I'm encouraged by Yahoo's performance in Q4 and 2013 overall. We saw continued stability in the business, and our investments allowed us to bring beautiful products to our users and establish a strong foundation for revenue growth ... We are extremely heartened by the year-over-year traffic increase we experienced in 2013, an early sign of return on our investments and the acquisitions we've made." Here is the full earnings release. Some notes from the call with analysts, as usual delivered on streaming video: Mayer says "getting overall growth to a place we are happy with will take multiple years." She says Yahoo will see growth in late 2014. Side note: Mayer pronounces gif as "jiff," which is technically correct! Tumblr posts are up 40%, and mobile monthly users are up 30%. Yahoo received 340,000 job applications in 2013! CFO Ken Goldman says the 6% decline in display ads revenue masks underlying growth. Hmm. Goldman says they are going to report GAAP revenues going forward, not ex-TAC revenues. He declines to give full-year guidance. Mayer says Yahoo is positioned to take advantage of mobile ad sales, and that mobile will eventually perform better than desktop. Tumblr revenue ... Mayer mentions it but ... makes a sales pitch instead: average Tumblr post reblogged 14 times ... average Tumblr ad post is reblogged more than 10,000 times. Again, no indication of meaningful revenue at Tumblr. Mayer notes that Yahoo's various digital magazines will be using Tumblr as their publishing platform. (Interesting that the platform is that flexible.) A question on the De Castro exit. Mayer: "Ultimately Henrique was not a fit. That was a regrettable conclusion, and a conclusion we tried to avoid .... we are not planning to replace that position ... we have a strong sales team ..... it gives me the opportunity to be much more involved with revenue as we drive toward revenue growth." Wow: Mayer seems to be saying she's going to get more involved in sales! Goldman: The focus is getting the ship back to where we can grow again. He admits Yahoo cut jobs in Q4. "We do need to catch up." Ouch! Another question on De Castro. Mayer: "Out of respect for Henrique I'd rather not comment on the past and his performance." But the future will involve "me having much more direct involvement with our sales leadership." To Mayer's credit, she's really getting into the adtech weeds at the end of this call, talking about targeting and inventory like a pro. Which, of course, she is — it's just that we've never heard her talk in this detail before. Click here or refresh this post for updates. Here's what analysts were predicting prior to the release: The call at 5 p.m. EST came after these recent events at the company: COO Henrique De Castro left after little more than a year on the job, and exited with a $109 million pay package. He was CEO Marissa Mayer's first major hire, and first major error in judgment. Yahoo currently does not have a chief revenue officer, as a result. Mayer has been diligently acquiring and launching a suite of new apps to transform Yahoo into a mobile media company. David Pogue now runs Yahoo Tech, Nick D'Aloisio runs the Yahoo News Digest app, and the company acquired Aviate, a mobile app search and organization division. But analysts are focused on two things: Any signs of growth in the online advertising business, and the state of Yahoo's investment stakes in the Chinese trading site Alibaba and Yahoo Japan. Those holdings are mostly responsible for the recent increase in Yahoo's stock. It would also be nice to eventually see some revenue attached to Tumblr, its most spectacular acquisition of the past couple of years. FREE AppDownload
APPresident Barack Obama's fifth official State of the Union address comes at a pivotal moment in his presidency.  His approval ratings are at their lowest points entering a new year in his tenure. In recent U.S. history, only Obama's predecessor, George W. Bush, was on shakier footing entering his sixth year in office. The two words that every president fears — "lame duck" — have been thrown around with increasing frequency lately.  On top of it all, he's entering an election year that could make his most of the items on a still-ambitious agenda next to impossible. That's why many Democrats are cheering Obama's expected theme in Tuesday night's speech — addressing the so-called "opportunity gap." "We're excited about tonight's speech," House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) told a small group of reporters on Capitol Hill earlier Tuesday. "We think it's going to be a call to action for a 'Year of Action' that will invigorate the debate here and, I hope, to the American people." Perhaps the biggest policy announcement Obama will make in his speech Tuesday night is an executive order to raise the minimum wage for new federal contract workers. The hike ensures that all federal workers employed under future government contracts do not make less than $10.10 an hour.  The minimum-wage hike fits in with two larger themes of Obama's address. The first is his push for a broad federal minimum-wage hike to the same level. The second is that he will make it known he will work around Congress when he feels it is necessary. "There are some things we can do right now to get the economy going," said Rep. Chris Van Hollen (D-Md.), ranking member on the House Budget Committee. In addition to the minimum-wage hike, some of those steps Obama is expected to highlight include the administration's creation of a pledge not to discriminate against potential employees based on how long they've been unemployed; "economic promise zones," which Obama announced last month; and revamping early-childhood education, which Democrats think could be a winning issue ahead of the 2014 midterm elections.  According to at least one new poll, Obama's new strategy to get things done could find support with the public. In a new Washington Post-ABC News poll, 52% said they supported the power of the president to "in some cases to bypass Congress and take action by executive order to accomplish their administration's goals." Only 46% opposed. "This all comes in the context of a Congress that is the most gridlocked in American history," freshman Rep. Joaquin Castro (D-Texas) said Tuesday.  "We just had the least-productive year in American history, since we've been keeping record. The president should be trying to figure out how he can try to make government productive." FREE AppDownload
FactsAboutHerbalife.comReporters are trying to figure out whether or not Shane Dinneen, the Pershing Square analyst who worked on the fund's famous Herbalife short, is still with the firm.   The question was first raised about a month ago when anonymous Twitter user @TheSkeptic21—who tweets constantly about Herbalife— posted on his blog a theory that Dinneen was no longer at Pershing. (TheSkeptic21 later updated the blog emphasizing that he didn't think Dinneen was "fired", but that he didn't think he was physically in the office.) From @TheSkeptic21's blog (emphasis ours):  To be accurate I guess "fired" may be a little "technical", but I believe Shane has NOT been in the Pershing Square Offices. Leave of absence, break, vacation, lacuna, interval, hiatus, time apart; whatever conversation Bill may have had with Shane, I'm sure he let Shane know "It's not you it's me." That being said I believe Shane Dinneen and Pershing Square are lovers no more. And really let's face it, it's not Shane**.   Dinneen was the analyst assigned to do the research before the hedge fund put on its massive Herbalife short.  Bill Cohan reported in Vanity Fair that Ackman "turned the Herbalife idea over to two of his employees, Shane Dinneen, a young Harvard graduate—who bears an uncanny resemblance to Conan O’Brien—and to Mariusz Adamski, whom Ackman had met on the tennis court and then hired as an intern. The two read public documents, reviewed old lawsuits, watched strange selling videos, and learned about Herbalife’s bizarre, charismatic founder, Mark Hughes..."  When Ackman first revealed his short, Dinneen got to stand on stage with him at the Special Sohn event and help deliver the 342-slide presentation on Herbalife. So far, the short hasn't played out in Pershing's favor. The hedge fund has racked up hundreds of millions in paper losses.   And now we have Fox Business Network's Charlie Gasparino is asking the question— Is Dinneen still at Pershing Square? Pershing Square's public relations' firm didn't immediately respond to Gasparino's requests for comment. That's even after he publicly called them out on Twitter.  When Gasparino got on the phone with Dinneen's secretary, she said that she'd look at his calendar and try to get him on the phone, Gasparino Tweeted.   It took a day for Rubenstein to finally tell Gasparino that they had no comment on Dinneen.  We've posted his Tweets below:   from ackman's flacks at @RubensteinPR: "We have no comment on shane dinneen. if that changes we will let you know" wtf??? Shane dinneen's sectry at pershing sq tells fbn that she's "looking at his calendar" and he will try and give FBN a call $hlf http://t.co/1JJftB24Vb loves to complain abt @FoxBusiness's ackman coverage but wont deny that shane dinneen is out at Pershsq waiting...... it's bizarre that neither ackman nor @RubensteinPR wont deny that $HLF shorter shane dinneen has left pershing they wont even comment both bill ackman and his flacks at rubenstein are mum on renewed talk that shane dinneen -- co author of $HLF short--is out at pershing For what it's worth, we've also asked Pershing's PR people if Dinneen still physically works at the office and haven't gotten a response. Either way, the last person who's going to drop this story is Charlie Gasparino — so we'll keep you posted. FREE AppDownload
The big news in markets this evening is the Turkish central bank decision. They raised rates MUCH more than expected in an attempt to stem the decline of the Turkish Lira. The shockingly big move is rippling across all global markets. Dow futures are surging. FinViz FREE AppDownload
BOOM. After Turkey's central bank just hiked rates by much more than expected, the Turkish lira is exploding. Here's a chart of the Euro vs. Turkish Lira. You can see the Lira is exploding higher, by dint of the fact that the Euro is falling so sharply against it. A similar move is happening against the dollar. This chart is via Michael Hewson: Michael Hewson FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Murad SezerThe Central Bank of Turkey just announced massive rate hikes. It raised the overnight lending rate to 12%, from 7.75%. Economists polled by Bloomberg were looking for a hike to 10%. It raised the  benchmark repurchase rate to 10%, from 4.5%. Economists were looking for this to be left unchanged. The overnight borrowing rate was brought up to 8% from 3.5%. The overnight borrowing rate was also expected to be left unchanged. Today's emergency bank meeting came as the central bank attempted to stem the decline of the Turkish lira. The lira firmed to 2.1925 to a dollar after the announcement, from 2.2591 ahead of the meeting. The currency touched a record low of 2.390 lira to a dollar on Monday.  The lira has recently taken a beating on the back of a corruption probe threatening prime minister Tayyip Erdogan and the ruling AKP party. And anti-government sentiment has picked up since the Gezi Park protests in Istanbul last summer which have raised investor concerns.  Of course Turkey's problems go beyond political uncertainty. Like the other 'Fragile Five' nations, Turkey has a current account deficit problem. And there is the fact that its economic growth has largely been driven by construction which is bound to get more expensive as interest rates are rising. From the press release:  "Recent domestic and external developments are having an adverse impact on risk perceptions, leading to a significant depreciation in the Turkish lira and a pronounced increase in the risk premium. The Central Bank will implement necessary measures at its disposal to contain the negative impact of these developments on inflation and macroeconomic stability. In this respect, the Committee decided to implement a strong monetary tightening and to simplify the operational framework. "Tight monetary policy stance will be sustained until there is a significant improvement in the inflation outlook. Under this policy stance, inflation is expected to reach the 5 percent target by mid-2015. " Ahead of the announcement, Erdogan reiterated that he was not in favor of rate hikes but maintained that the central bank is an independent entity. Erdogan continues to be focused on growth in a year when Turkey sees municipal elections (in March) and a presidential election (in August). "I think the central bank is desperate to stop the move lower, and realizes the inadequacy of its current interventions," Enis Taner macro editor at Risk Reversal and former trader at Goldman Sachs, told Business Insider on Monday. "If they do hike rates a couple percent on the upper band, then I think it will calm the currency in the near-term." "No one should be in doubt that the central bank will use all its policy tools to converge inflation to the 5% target," central bank governor Erdem Basci is quoted saying in the Wall Street Journal. "Our aim at tonight's meeting is to avoid a deterioration of pricing behavior and to take steps to ensure price stability. ...We won't refrain from implementing permanent policy tightening if needed."  Markets will be watching to see if other emerging market central banks make similar moves. Click here for the full press release » FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/David Mdzinarishvili  Since late November the streets of Kiev have become a battle zone, with anti-government protesters facing off against Ukrainian police in near-daily clashes. In the past week or so it became especially violent, with a number of deaths reported among anti-government protesters and images of a near-post-apocalyptic scene in Maidan Nezalezhnosti, the center of the protests. Today, after the government finally attempted some reconciliation, there is finally hope. Ukraine's parliament has repealed a series of strict anti-protest laws that led to renewed protest earlier this month, and Prime Minister Mykola Azarov tendered his resignation. The most violent stage of the protests might be over. Unfortunately for the protesters, as the violence ebbs, so may the international attention. Domestic political news in Eastern European countries rarely makes headlines in the U.S. or Western Europe unless it is very dramatic or violent, and common misconceptions about Ukraine relate to things as simple as the country's name. Don't forget, before the protests Ukraine's biggest international story for years was the former Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko and her status as "world's hottest leader." So why should Western readers care about the situation in Ukraine? Two important reasons fit broadly into two schools of international relation theory: Idealism and Realism. Taras Ilkiv, a Ukrainian journalist writing for Business Insider, has argued that while the government's shift on proposed EU membership is often listed as being the core behind the protests, the real problem relates to human rights and democracy. For people with an idealistic world outlook, it is important to fight that emerging oppression. Ilkiv says that a peaceful protest against President Yanukovych's U-turn was violently broken up by Ukraine's notorious Berkut special police on Nov. 30, and that this was the catalyst for broader protests. People weren't just sick of the excesses of the Berkut or Yanukovych's shift toward Moscow — they were angry at Yanukovych for creating a centralized system that allowed for extreme corruption, nepotism, and intimidation. When the government began sending text messages to protesters taking part in "violent demonstrations," Yanukovych's government began to look positively Orwellian. Google Maps / Business Insider Political realists recognize that Ukraine's domestic tensions really hold major geopolitical significance. Even if, as Ilkiv and others have argued, the protests aren't just about an internal divide between the pro-Europe West and the pro-Russia East, outside the country this is the aspect that matters most.  For many Russians, the history of Ukraine and Russia are intrinsically intertwined, and it's hard to imagine Russia President Vladimir Putin's grand plans for a Eurasian Union working if Ukraine joined the E.U. The implications are huge. "The emergence of a democratic independent Ukraine transforms the geo-strategic landscape in Central Europe," Distinguished Chair in European Security at the RAND Institute F. Stephen Larrabee wrote in an email to Business Insider. "Without Ukraine Russia ceases to be a Eurasian empire. However, if Russia were to regain control over Ukraine with its 46 million people, major resources and access to the Black Sea, Russia would automatically regain the wherewithal to become a powerful imperial state." Additionally, a number of key gas pipelines from Russia to Western Europe run through Ukraine. In pure economic terms, a shift to Russia would likely change the dynamics of how Western Europe is powered. AP The problem with caring about Ukraine is that there's no easy way to get involved nor any clear side to back. While U.S. and E.U. governments have voiced their concern about the growing violence and repression, it's not clear what concrete action they can actually take. Sanctions are the obvious step, but there's a persuasive argument that Western sanctions would only drive Ukraine further into the hands of Russia. And who should the West be working with in Ukraine? As Ilkiv notes, the formal opposition in the country has been divided and ineffective compared to the street protests. There are some unsavory figures among the opposition leaders too, as Senator John McCain discovered as he visited the country and stood onstage with a man accused of being an anti-Semitic neo-Nazi. Let's remember what the worst case scenario is here. Ukraine is a huge country, and a huge country with a well-developed military industrial complex. If chaos truly spread throughout the country, Simon Saradzhyan, a research fellow at Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard University and former editor at the Moscow Times says, the country could become a failed state and a "giant bazaar for customers seeking ICBM [intercontinental ballistic missiles] and other deadly technologies." "Whether they are proponents or opponents of playing a lower-budget version of the Grand Game in the post-Soviet neighborhood," Saradzhyan says, "Most U.S. policy-makers would probably agree that a failed Ukrainian state is worse than either pro-Russian or pro-Western Ukrainian state." Of course, that's a worse-case scenario, and — thanks in part to the announcements today — the hope among observers now is that Ukraine might become united against Yanokovych and his tactics. Right now, all we can do is watch and hope. FREE AppDownload
Apple stock was down 8% today following disappointing iPhone sales numbers for the final quarter of 2013.  Even though Apple sold a record 51 million iPhones last quarter, the number was lower than Wall Street analysts were expecting. Most thought Apple would sell 55 or 56 million iPhones. Meanwhile, Carl Icahn tweeted today that he just bought another $500 million in Apple stock. That didn't help the price though. It's still down. Here's a look at Apple's stock after the closing bell: CNBC   FREE AppDownload
BIIBanks compete vigorously to gain new customers and enlarge their deposit base. And mobile has become the most important new battleground where this competition is playing out. Banks are rolling out the latest and greatest smartphone and tablets apps and mobile site features to gain an edge on the competition.  Mobile banking features also help banks make inroads with younger consumers, who may be banking for the first time and could become lifelong customers. The banks that establish a reputation for mobile innovation are likely to benefit in the future from greater market share and more engaged — and high-margin — customers. In a recent report from BI Intelligence, we take a look at some banking app pioneers and cutting-edge features, detail the competition to develop the best mobile banking tools, examine mobile banking's growth spurt, and analyze consumer adoption behavior and barriers. Access the Full Report By Signing Up For A Free Trial Today &gt;&gt;&gt; These are examples of the more advanced mobile banking features: In full, the special report: For full access to the report on Mobile Banking sign up for a free trial subscription today. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Gene BlevinsAfter a five-day losing streak, stocks climbed amid a busy day of economic data. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
At this point, it looks extremely unlikely that long-term emergency unemployment benefits will be extended. This has caused a huge debate about whether this is wise, and what will happen to the long-term unemployed and the unemployment rate. North Carolina has been without long-term unemployment benefits since last Summer, and so they might offer a glimpse of what happens when the unemployment insurance is not extended. The answer? A gigantic drop in the unemployment rate. Here's a chart of the North Carolina unemployment rate. Look how fast its fallen lately. Basically it's gone straight down. FRED Of course, the national unemployment rate has also been falling. So how much is North Caroline specific? Here's a look at the North Carolina unemployment minus the national number. As you can see, the North Carolina unemployment rate is falling MUCH faster than the national number. FRED Of course, this only answers one question, which is what happens to the rate of unemployment. It doesn't tell us whether people are finding jobs or just totally dropping out of the workforce. But even if this is mostly a function of people dropping out of the labor force, the actual unemployment rate does still matter for Fed policy. So if you think this has any predictive value for the national number (which could be debated) ths number still matters. FREE AppDownload
Facebook/Loews Regency HotelIt’s been 54 weeks since New York’s power brokers and political elite could do business over coffee and eggs benedict at the Loews Regency Hotel, known as the original birthplace of the “power breakfast.”  Under the reigning Tisch family, the hotel reopened January 16 following a $100 million renovation. “I got a lot of comments the morning of the opening that people were starving and hadn’t had breakfast since we’d closed,” Leigh Wynn, the restaurant’s majordomo, told us. Wynn, who ran the breakfast when the Regency closed last year (she trained under the restaurant’s previous manager, who held that position for 20 years), is back—and she makes it her job to know exactly where her guests are sitting, what they’re eating and what they’re reading Monday through Friday. “We start at 7 a.m. and officially it’s over around 10:30, but the power breakfast is from 7:30 to 9 a.m. By 8:30, we’re completely full,” she says.  “It’s not that we don’t necessarily want walk-ins (the bar is first come first serve), but we have a completely booked room.  Two days out, we’re usually completely booked.” For such high-powered mornings at the Park Ave hotel, we wanted to know how Wynn does it—and what she’s observed so far. What time do you wake up?  Facebook.com/LoewsRegencyPeople attend the power breakfast after the reopening of the Loews Regency Hotel.I wake up so early! I have to go to bed at about 9 p.m. to wake up—and look good—at 4 a.m. and shower, blow dry my hair and get dressed. Not to mention I have to eat before I go to breakfast, which is funny, because I know I will not sit down until at least 10:30 a.m. I’ll be on my feet all morning—in heels! And what are you wearing on top? I wear all black clothes because I probably will have food all over me by the end of the day. Once you’re at the restaurant, what happens? I’m usually at the restaurant by 6:15 a.m., and it’s just mapping out the room and making sure it all makes sense. You know, we get a lot of political figures, CEOs and celebrities in the room, and it’s all about making sure the right people are sitting next to the right people so business is done properly—you don’t want someone sitting next to someone if they don’t like each other. Then, after going through reservations, I’m communicating to our staff and our kitchen the guest preferences and special requests. Each of our guests have things that they like to have in the morning like special coffee or special cereal, even the timing and that sort of thing. What are some specific special requests you get? It’s funny you ask, because actually our clientele is pretty basic in terms of menu items since this is their breakfast meeting and they’re there literally three times a week. So they will have eggs and toast and oatmeal that’s just bland. They’re not really into the eggs benedict or the pancakes or the waffles; they want healthier options. You’re not going to have eggs benedict four times a week because you’d be huge. What I’m seeing right now is that a lot of guests are on diets, so it’s more like whole wheat toast and tea and fruit, Cheerios. We get a lot of requests for just plain, bland items.  Jon Tisch is on this diet right now and he’s very lean; he’s pretty much eating just fruit and whole-wheat toast at the moment. Do you have special tables reserved for certain people? Facebook.com/LoewsRegencyPeople attend the power breakfast after the reopening of the Loews Regency Hotel. Yeah, people have specific tables that they like. The higher-ups prefer to be seen, and they like window tables. Even when we were closed, they were emailing me saying “make sure I get a window table,” and I was thinking to myself, well, the room doesn’t look the same.  We have notables that like to sit specifically in a booth because that’s where they feel most comfortable. Also, we do have newspapers out every single morning. Wall Street Journal and New York Times are obviously the first things to go, but people love The Post, let me tell you that! They’ll hide it under their Wall Street Journal and pretend that it doesn’t exist, but we all know they read The Post.  It’s a guilty pleasure. Once breakfast is over, what does the rest of your day look like? I’m also the hotel’s event sales and services manager, so I run our event space through the hotel. Since I’m in a unique position where I’m communicating constantly with all of these really great guests and powerful people, I’m able to pull them into our private areas at the hotel and host their events as well.  They trust me with their mornings, and to have that trust throughout their entire business experience, even into an event, is pretty cool. Do you have a favorite moment that’s happened at a power breakfast? I think one of my favorite moments was when Bill de Blasio was not yet mayor, and he came in and we just talked about random stuff. Then he shook my hand and said “Can’t wait to see you again soon,” and I think that was really special. And then there was another moment when Rudy Guiliani came in for breakfast and started talking about Game of Thrones with me.  Just to be in touch with these powerful people and have conversations about family, your day, television—it’s pretty special to be able to have that sort of rapport with our guests.  Their guards are a bit more down at 7 a.m., before they get that morning coffee in them.  This article originally appeared at DuJour.  Copyright 2014. Follow DuJour on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Can you imagine getting your paycheck in Bitcoin? That would be just dandy for a lot of IT professionals. Events company Tech in Motion polled 847 IT pros about accepting Bitcoin as payment for work, and more than half, 51%, said yes; another 18% said maybe. Only 10% think Bitcoin won't last. It probably helps that the value of Bitcoin is really high right now. As of Tuesday, one Bitcoin is worth about $850, according to Coindesk.   FREE AppDownload
On Tuesday morning, Henry Paulson — the U.S. Treasury Secretary who presided over the beginning of the financial crisis —  spoke to a packed room at Manhattan club, CORE:. He was there to discuss "Hank: Five Years from the Brink," a documentary on Paulson's view of the crisis, but also spoke at length about what America still needs to do to clean up the mortgage meltdown mess. You didn't think it was over, did you? The discussion was held ahead of the documentary's theatrical release at New York City's Village East theater this Friday, Jan. 31. You can also catch it on Netflix. Paulson said that while "there's no doubt" in his mind that markets are performing normally, there's still a lot of work to be done that wasn't addressed while the government's eye was fixed on financial markets. "We still have five regulators falling all over themselves, competing with each other, with no clear message," said Paulson. For cash, we have the Securities and Exchange Commission. For derivatives, we have the CFTC, and so on. "It makes no sense," he said. Paulson went on to say that he's much less concerned about the big banks right now than he is about the mortgage market. Flawed housing policies, like the mortgage interest rate reduction for example, helped to create the mess we got in, and we need to rethink the way our country deals with these matters. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, he said, need to be wound down into much smaller entities with far more limited missions. That will make the mortgage market less risky for taxpayers in the future. The problem with that, of course, is that now that the crisis is over Fannie and Freddie are making money for the government, so there's no political incentive to unwind them. "We're sowing the seeds for another major problem," Paulson said. He wants more housing market risk in the hands of private entities, but it has to be done correctly. And by correctly, he does not mean having activist money managers like Bruce Berkowitz and Bill Ackman, who see an "interesting opportunity" in this market, buy out Fannie and Freddie's businesses. "They've taken a calculated, educated risk that the government's not going to do what needs to be done," said Paulson. But it's not the right way. Instead he prefers The Corker-Warner Housing Finance Reform and Taxpayer Protection Act, a bill Senators Bob Corker (R-TN) and Mark Warner (D-VA) introduced in the summer of 2013. The bill would wind down Fannie and Freddie in five years and set up the Federal Mortgage Insurance Corporation (FMIC). The FMIC would act as insurance the same way the FDIC does for banks, protecting 10% first-loss, private capital in the mortgage market. It would also be required to hold "a minimum reserve balance of 2.5 percent of the outstanding balance of covered securities as a catastrophic backstop that would only be utilized in the event that the 10 percent first-loss private capital is completely wiped out," according to the bill. Well, at least there's a plan for that, because there's a laundry list of other issues that keep Paulson up at night — shadow banking, money market funds, repo markets. The architects of the financial recovery missed those entirely, he said. Not so reassuring.   FREE AppDownload
Courtesy of Bjarke Ingels GroupFor wealthy New Yorkers accustomed to $10+ million urban homes, buying a Bahamas condo for $3 million doesn't seem so bad. At least, that's what Danish architecture firm Bjarke Ingels Group (BIG) and real estate company Douglas Elliman are hoping. They have teamed up on a gorgeous new project called the Honeycomb on the south coast of New Providence, named for its geometric and organic façade. The midrise condominium will face a marina and the ocean, and feature apartments ranging from two bedrooms to seven-bedroom penthouses. The 34-unit complex is a part of a larger resort known as The Albany, a project developed by the Tavistock Group with investors such as Tiger Woods and Ernie Els, and would be the tallest building in the area, according to the press release. “The idea with having Douglas Elliman on board is that the New York buyer hasn’t been addressed,” Horacio LeDon, a senior managing director at Douglas Elliman Development Marketing, told The New York Times. “Wealthy New Yorkers have been going down to the Bahamas for quite some time, and all without any proper marketing. We aim to change that.” Compared to some Manhattan real estate, the condos are relatively cheap, costing roughly $1,600 to $1,700 per square foot after closing costs and other expenditures, according to The Times (that's a range of $3 million to $12.5 million). In Manhattan, square footage can go for many times that price. Each apartment comes with an outdoor private terrace, as well as a pool. Honeycomb will break ground this summer, and opens in the first half of 2016.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - New York will propose regulating virtual currency firms that operate in the state this year and may require them to obtain a "BitLicense," state banking regulator Benjamin Lawsky said on Tuesday. The regulations would be aimed at preventing misconduct such as money laundering without derailing a fledgling technology, said Lawsky, the state's superintendent of financial services. Lawsky was speaking at the start of two days of hearings on online currencies organized by his agency, the New York Department of Financial Services. Separately on Tuesday, the Bitcoin Foundation, an advocacy group which promotes adoption of the bitcoindigital currency, said one of its executives, Charlie Shrem, had resigned a day after U.S. prosecutors charged him with conspiring to commit money laundering. The bitcoin, while gaining wider acceptance by businesses such as the Sacramento Kings basketball team and ecommerce site Overstock.com, has been coming under increased scrutiny by regulators. The bitcoin is not backed by a government or central bank; its value fluctuates according to user demand. Lawsky said Shrem's arrest has cast a cloud over the industry, but said that a virtual currency could have a number of benefits for the financial system. "It could force the traditional payments community to 'up its game' in terms of the speed, affordability and reliability of financial transactions," Lawsky said. He said that his intention is not to inhibit growth of the bitcoin, saying that the growing popularity of the digital currency could encourage banks to improve their services. He said that many consumers, himself included, are perplexed that it can often take several days to transfer money to a friend's bank account. Lawsky said that while he wanted to set up clear rules, he also wanted to preserve flexibility, given the constantly evolving nature of the technology. "That is, in part, why we're evaluating whether our agency should issue a so-called 'BitLicense' specifically tailored to virtual currencies," he said. The Bitcoin Foundation said in a statement that Shrem submitted his resignation Tuesday morning, effective immediately. The foundation said it needed to remain focused on its mission to standardize, protect and promote the bitcoin, saying a "prolonged legal dispute would inevitably detract from advancing that core mission." According to prosecutors, Shrem conspired to sell more than $1 million in bitcoins to users of Silk Road, an illicit online drugs bazaar that authorities shuttered last year. Shrem was CEO of BitInstant, a bitcoin exchange company that closed last summer. Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss, who were investors in the BitInstant, urged Lawsky to find the appropriate balance, adding in a statement read by Cameron Winklevoss that "over regulation could cripple its development." (Reporting by Karen Freifeld and Emily Flitter; Editing by Leslie Adler) FREE AppDownload
According to new numbers from the Department of Transportation, the average fare charged by U.S. carriers is far below what it was in the 1990s. In constant 2013 dollars, the average third quarter fare in 1995 was $439. By 2009, it had dropped to $333. It has since climbed back to $390. So if airlines are charging less to fly, why does the International Air Transport Association (IATA) predict the global airline industry will bring home an all-time high net profit of $19.7 billion in 2014? Factors include more efficient jets, a small drop in jet fuel prices, and airline consolidation (like the mega-merger of American Airlines and US Airways). But the bigger answer is in a DOT table that shows how much money airlines actually make off passengers fares, as a percentage of total revenue. In 1990, it was nearly 90%. After two decades of dropping it's now barely above 70%. Simply put, airlines aren't as dependent on fares as they once were: DOT Airlines are less dependent on fares because they're making up the money on ancillary fees — the things you pay extra for, like checking a bag, extra leg room, or changing a reservation. "Without ancillaries," an IATA forecast says, "the industry would be making a loss from its core seat and cargo products." An IATA table shows how ancillary fees — once nearly worthless — are making up for lost fare revenue: IATA So fares can keep dropping, and airlines will continue to make up the difference by charging for everything they can think of. FREE AppDownload
Seena Photos/Didier DelmasA series of deaths among finance workers has shaken London and raised more concerns about stress levels of bankers, Ben Wright and David Enrich of The Wall Street Journal report. On Tuesday morning, a 39-year-old JP Morgan employee died after falling from the roof of the European headquarters of JP Morgan in London. The man, Gabriel Magee, was a vice president in the investment bank's technology department, a source told WSJ. On Sunday, London police found William Broeksmit, a 58-year-old former senior executive at Deutsche Bank AG, dead in his home after an apparent suicide. Last week, a U.K.-based communications director at Swiss Re AG died. The cause of death has not been made public. In August, a 21-year-old Bank of America intern died after reportedly working consecutive all-nighters at the bank's London office. Wall Street banks including Bank of America, Goldman Sachs, JP Morgan, Credit Suisse, subsequently told junior bankers to take more time off. WSJ notes that last August, the finance chief at Zurich Insurance Group AG committed suicide and left a note blaming the company's chairman for creating an unbearable work environment. FREE AppDownload

REUTERS/ Benoit TessierI’ve seen a lot lately about Bitcoin. To be clear, before I start… I think Bitcoin is an amazing phenomenon, amazing technology, and will probably end up being a historically significant failed first step at a truly digital currency and serve as a beginner’s blueprint for future governments (or other organizations whose primary function is the application of force). Now… onto the nonsense. Claim: Bitcoin could help small and large businesses save TONS of money on credit card fees!!! It’s nearly free! Nonsense. The “transaction cost” of a credit card transaction is damn near zero. Do you REALLY think it takes Amex or Visa a lot of effort to say “OK subtract $40.56 from this guy and credit $40.56 to this guy”? Of course not. The transaction is already digital. The currency is already digital. There is no cost. Don’t believe me… open a Venmo account and pay me $5. I’ll send you $5 back and it won’t cost either of us a dime. This is digital debit/credit without the overhead of miners having to verify the work. OK then Andy… if the transaction doesn’t cost CC companies anything, then why am I paying 1.9%+.25 to accept a credit card?? Because it ain’t about YOU, son. You see, you’ve flipped things all upside down. This is about your customer…who also happens to be American Express’s customer.   To prove this is simple: When is the last time you heard someone say “please pay me with credit card rather than cash?” Right— never. Now… when is the last time you heard someone say “do you accept Amex?” Probably every single day if you’re a successful small business. CC companies do ALL of these things for your customer that Bitcoin does NOT : 1. Allow your customer to pay you with debt. Note: This is extremely beneficial to you as well, as it makes your goods a multiple more affordable without YOU becoming a creditor to each customer. Think about that. 2. Provide your customer with an INSANE level of highly sophisticated fraud prevention and recovery that makes your customer more likely to purchase from little old unknown YOU. 3. Rewards your customer for using their payment method. Bitcoin bonus points that let me go to Paris next year might be in the future, but they won’t come free. Credit cards make your customers happy. THAT is why they win, and you pay them to participate. FREE AppDownload
Apple is tanking again on bad earnings. But activist investor Carl Icahn  is using this as a buying opportunity. He just tweeted. Carl Icahn, Twitter Meanwhile, Icahn told CNBC that Apple's stock is totally misunderstood. Here's a transcript we got from them. SCOTT WAPNER: FRESH OFF BUYING $500 MILLION MORE IN APPLE STOCK, CARL ICAHN TELLING ME JUST A SHORT TIME AGO THE FOLLOWING. OVER THE YEARS I'VE MADE A GREAT DEAL OF MONEY BUYING ON THESE DIPS OF COMPANIES I THINK ARE NO BRAINERS, ESPECIALLY WHEN I THINK THE REASON FOR THE DIP IS COMPLETELY MISINTERPRETED. CARL GOES ON TO TELL ME, IN FACT, I BELIEVE THERE WAS A MAJOR POSITIVE IN APPLE'S MESSAGE WHEN TIM COOK STATEDTHAT WITHIN THE YEAR NEW PRODUCTS IN NEW CATEGORIES WILL FINALLY BE INTRODUCED. IT SHOULD BE NOTED THAT THE LAST NEW PRODUCT IN A NEW CATEGORY WAS INTRODUCED FOUR YEARS AGO. IT WAS CALLED THE iPAD. HE SAYS THE LONG-TERM PICTURE AT APPLE IS COMPLETELY UNCHANGED. TO ME, IT IS EVEN MORE COMPELLING FOR APPLE TO BUY BACK STOCK NOW. IT SHOULD ALSO BE NOTED, CARL, THAT FROM THE EARNINGS YESTERDAY WE LEARNED THAT THE CASH HOARD AT APPLE HAD GROWN TO $159 BILLION. SO IF YOU BACK OUT THE CASH HERE, THAT IS A STOCK THAT IS TRADING NOW AT EIGHT TIMES EARNING. THUS, MAKING IT MORE COMPELLING TO THE FOLKS OVER THERE,CARL SPECIFICALLY, THAT IT EVEN MAKES MORE SENSE NOW FOR APPLE TO DO THAT BUYBACK. SO HE'S HAD A CHANCE TO GO THROUGH THE EARNINGS WITH HIS TEAM. HE CLEARLY VOTED WITH HIS WALLET.   CARL QUINTANILLA: ALRIGHT, SCOTT, HAVING SOME AUDIO DIFFICULTIES. I THINK WE GOT THE CRUX OF YOUR REPORT. THERE HAS BEEN SOME DISCUSSION, SARA, THAT THE SO-CALLED HALF LIFE OF CARL'S TWEETS MAY BE SHORTENING BECAUSE APPLE SAW A VERY MILD POP AND THEN BASICALLY GAVE UP --   SARA EISEN: YEAH THIS IS AN INTERESTING PATTERN WE’VE BEEN SEEING FROM CARL ICAHN.   QUINTANILLA: I'M NOT SUGGESTING CARL IS EVEN INTERESTED IN THAT TO ANY DEGREE BUT THAT’S CERTAINLY SOMETHING THAT PEOPLE ARE WATCHING AMONG DAY TRADERS AND SHORT-TERM INVESTORS.   EISEN: AND HE CONTINUES THIS THEME THAT IT'S A NO BRAINER. HE’S LOADING UP ON APPLE. THEY ARE GOING TO RETURN CASH AND HE DOESN'T QUESTION THE INNOVATION CYCLE AS SCOTT JUST REPORTED. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Flickr/wammybar1949Last week, the Argentine government devalued its currency and prices soared. It was just one step on a long road to getting Argentina's economy back in order as the Central Bank's currency reserves dip to dangerous levels. It's been chaotic, but Argentines don't sweat it. They've seen this before. Economic crashes, underground dollar exchanges, Rolling Stones cults, and a string of five Presidents in two weeks in 2001 — Argentina is a crazy place. The South American country is rich with resources, but often broke. As a result, Argentines are so accustomed to political and economic turmoil that they've adopted a bunch of interesting coping mechanisms — habits that help them get through the disorder. And then there's the stuff that just comes out of left field. FREE AppDownload
richkidsofinstagram.tumblr.comThe Level I Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) test results for the December exam are out. Even though most people failed, the pass rate is higher this time. Approximately 43% of the more than 45,000 candidates passed the exam.  The average pass rate was 37% as of December 2012.   The CFA is known to be the hardest exam on Wall Street. It takes several about five to six months to prepare for the grueling six-hour long test.  What's more is fewer than 20 percent of candidates pass all three levels on the first attempt. The results are being sent to test-takers inboxes this morning.  A bunch of folks on Twitter are recommending that people check their spam folder if they haven't received them yet.   Here's the press release:  CFA Institute, the global association of investment professionals that sets the standard for professional excellence and credentials, reports that 43 percent of the 45,693 candidates that took the Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) Level I exam in December 2013 have passed and taken the first step to joining the next generation of highly educated and ethical investment professionals. In June and December of 2013 a total number of 93,195 candidates sat for Level I of the CFA Program, a globally recognized, graduate level curriculum that links theory and practice with real-world investment analysis, and emphasizes the highest ethical and professional standards. The results come at a time when investment professionals worldwide report greater optimism over economic prospects for the coming year, but do not express confidence that the integrity of capital markets is improving, according to the CFA Institute 2014 Global Market Sentiment Survey (GMSS). The dedication shown by investment professionals taking the CFA Program demonstrates a strong desire to build a more trustworthy industry and develop a culture where ethical practice is just as important as investment performance. “The financial community is dealing with a crisis of investor trust, and industry education at all levels is a critical part of rebuilding that trust,” said John Rogers, CFA, president and CEO of CFA Institute. “The next generation of investment professionals is instrumental in shaping the future of finance, and each one of these successful candidates has the opportunity to build the kind of industry culture that puts investors first and better serves society.” To earn the CFA designation, candidates must pass all three levels of exam (successful candidates often report dedicating in excess of 300 hours of study per level); meet the work experience requirements of four years in the investment industry; sign a commitment to abide by the CFA Institute Code of Ethics and Standards of Professional Conduct; apply to a CFA Institute society; and become a member of CFA Institute. The CFA Program curriculum is firmly grounded in the knowledge and skills required every day in the investment profession and covers ethical and professional standards, securities analysis and valuation, international financial statement analysis, quantitative methods, economics, corporate finance, portfolio management, and performance measurement. Level I exams are offered in both June and December and Levels II and III are offered only in June. It takes most candidates more than three years to complete the CFA Program, and requires dedication and determination. View historic pass rates (PDF) The December 2013 Level I exam was administered in 93 test centers in 70 cities across 39 countries worldwide. Examples of countries and territories with the largest number of candidates that took the Level I CFA exam last December are the United States (10,317), Mainland China (7,823), India (4,179), Canada (3,554), the United Kingdom (3,136), Hong Kong (1,992), Singapore (1,529), South Africa (1,058), and United Arab Emirates (1,030).  FREE AppDownload
Chinese travelers are expected to make 3.62 billion trips during the Spring Day festival. And we already showed you what a nightmare the train journey can be.  What's worse than the overcrowding, is the tendency of some travelers to use the length of the train as a trash receptacle. A passenger throws garbage on the floor of a train traveling from Shenzhen to Zhengzhou. Reuters Passengers stand on their seats to make room for the cleaner collecting the garbage. Reuters  Check out more at Shanghaiist &gt;
China is about to see one of the largest human migrations, as people travel home for the Lunar Year holiday. Jan. 31 marks the beginning of Chinese New year, and travelers are expected to make some 3.62 billion trips home during the 40-day Spring Festival that began Jan. 16. Every year this places a huge burden on Chinese infrastructure. We rounded up some images that show just how busy it gets this time of the year in China. Travelers wait for their train at a checkpoint in Shanghai. REUTERS/Aly Song Some of these train journeys can take upwards of 15 hours. Reuters Scalping makes getting a train ticket harder and often people don't get tickets at all. REUTERS/Carlos Barria  If you think the trains are bad, there are expected to be about 80 million road trips a day. REUTERS/China Daily Just because you have a ticket doesn't mean you're guaranteed a seat. Many travelers are seen crowding the train floor. Reuters And travelers use the floor of the train as a garbage receptacle. A passenger throws garbage on the floor of a train travel ling from Shenzhen to Zhengzhou. Reuters  The online ticket booking website repeatedly crashed because of overwhelming demand. Reuters
Wikia/DisneyA post-doctoral researcher in the psychology department at University of California, Berkeley, conducted a number of studies that show people with more money are more likely to be rude and break rules. “Americans may be more narcissistic now than ever, but narcissism is not evenly distributed across social strata,” the researcher, Paul Piff, wrote in a paper that explained why “higher social class is associated with increased entitlement and narcissism.”  Piff and some of his colleagues have conducted a wide range of studies that show the attitude differences between people with more material wealth — even if they didn’t earn it — and individuals who lack wealth. “As a person’s levels of wealth increase, their feelings of compassion and empathy go down, and their feelings of entitlement, of deservingness, and their ideology of self-interest increases,” he said in a Tedx Talk in Marin County, Calif.  One study involved two players who don't know each other, a rigged game of Monopoly and a bowl of pretzels. The setup: The two strangers are told to play a regular game — except the rules are slightly different than usual. One player starts with twice as much money than the other and an extra dice to roll. In every case, the players recognized that the game was rigged, but as time went on, the “rich” player became more rude and obnoxious. That person spoke and moved louder, and even ate more snacks than the other participant. When the “rich” spoke about why they won, they would focus on their own strategy. “They became far less attuned to different features of the situation, including that flip of a coin that had randomly gotten them into that privileged position in the first place,” Piff said.   In another experiment, he looked at different levels of generosity. Piff gave a variety of volunteer participants $10 and told them they could keep it or share part of it. It turns out those who had lower salaries (less than $25,000) gave 44 percent more to the stranger than those who made more than $150,000. Piff also studied footage of a crosswalk in California to determine that 50 percent of people in the most expensive cars would not stop for pedestrians, while those with the cheapest cars stopped every time.   FREE AppDownload
The Bureau of Labor Statistics released December unemployment figures this morning and North Dakota continues to have the lowest unemployment rate in the nation at 2.6%. It's followed by South Dakota and Nebraska, both at 3.6%. On the other end, Rhode Island's 9.1% unemployment rate is the highest in the nation, edging out Nevada (8.8%) and Illinois (8.6%) for that dubious distinction. Louisiana had the largest drop in its unemployment rate from November to December. It fell from 6.3% to 5.7%. North Carolina, South Carolina and New Jersey all saw their unemployment rates drop by half a percentage point. In North Carolina's case, it's unclear how much that drop is the result of people finding jobs or dropping out of the labor force. The unemployment rate across the country currently sits at 6.7%. While this was a significant improvement from where it was at the beginning of 2013, the labor-force participation rate is currently at a 36 year low. The reasons for that are mixed, but it certainly means we are not yet close to full employment. Here's how the December unemployment rates compare for every state:Bureau of Labor Statistics FREE AppDownload
Business Insider is looking for an enterprise account executive to join our growing Business Insider Intelligence team. The key responsibility of this sales position is to drive revenue growth through corporate subscriptions. What Is Business Insider? Business Insider is a fast-growing business media company that was built for the digital age. Launched in 2007, the site offers real-time coverage of tech, finance, and general business news. BI reaches the next generation of business leaders. What Is BI Intelligence? BI Intelligence is a subscription service from Business Insider that provides smart news and in-depth analysis on the tech industry. The service has grown rapidly since its launch in mid-2012 and has expanded from its original focus on mobile to cover social, video, and payments, with two new verticals coming in 2014. Check out BI Intelligence here. Who's Right For The Job?  If you're interested in playing a pivotal role at a cutting-edge media company as it expands its revenue streams, then this role could be a great accelerator for your career. The ideal candidate will be entrepreneurial, organized, resourceful, and self-motivated. You should be interested in digital technology and an avid reader of business news. Responsibilities include: The ideal candidate should: This opening is immediate and is based out of our New York City office (no remote work or relocation assistance). To apply, please email a resume and short cover letter to mktgjobs@businessinsider.com. Thanks in advance. FREE AppDownload
It dropped another 7% in early trading. The general theme emerging with investors is: Apple has entered an era of low-to-no growth; it has made some sort of pricing error with the too-expensive-for-not-enough-phone iPhone 5C; and the iPhone is being boxed into a high-end consumer demographic while the majority of the world happily communicates on Android, the cheaper competitor. On yesterday's call with analysts, Ben Reitzes of Barclays asked the most brutal question of CEO Tim Cook: "My question is, are you still a growth company?" Wow. That's the kind of question you put to fusty old packaged goods companies that sell soap and toilet paper in groceries, not the company that stands at the pinnacle of American tech innovation. We'll get to Cook's response in a moment, but first some perspective. Never underestimate Apple. The company remains the ne plus ultra of tech firms, it attracts the best talent and it has a country-sized bank account it can use to buy or create whatever it wants. Several times, Apple has created new markets for devices out of thin air. It routinely confounds its competitors. So if you're an Apple hater, enjoy this moment of doubt — history says it is likely to be short-lived. More importantly, Apple has a huge new product cycle coming up that could involve the launch of an iPhone 6 with a big "phablet" screen, an Apple TV, and/or maybe an Apple smart watch. The recent launch of iTunes Radio has yet to play out, but it shows that Apple isn't done reorganizing the entertainment industry. Apple's problem is that right now, these are all rumors and conjecture. In the real world, Apple might even shrink as a company. Here's that painful exchange with Barclays' Reitzes: My question is for Tim. You’re at the midpoint of your guidance. It obviously implies a decline in revenue in the quarter coming up, and you haven’t done that forever. You came pretty close a couple of quarters ago, but you had some growth. And my question is, are you still a growth company? And should we expect the growth rate to accelerate as we go throughout the year? And why, if that’s the case? Cook's response was technical and meandering. At one point he blamed the iPod. At another, he suggested that the stats don't say what they ought to say, so maybe we should look at some different stats: I think it’s important to listen to what [CFO Peter Oppenheimer] said about the guidance, and about the compares year over year, and the point that he made that the underlying sell-through, that we’re very confident of growth year over year. And that is the way we look at it. Some people just look at the numbers on a piece of paper, but the way I’d look at the business is our business from a sell-through point of view less iPod, because I think all of us have known for some time that iPod is a declining business. And when you do that, the numbers from last quarter, and the deferral, which we’ve just increased, as Peter went through, when you look at that, and look at the numbers from last quarter, it comes up to a double digit growth. And we’re proud of that. I think that’s a pretty good result. Justin Sullivan/Getty Images"Our North American business contracted somewhat year over year."This was a typical response on the call. Cook and Oppenheimer alternately blamed inventory patterns, foreign currency headwinds, bad comparables from the prior year, and wireless carrier policies that are less generous to people who want new phones. It was not awe-inspiring stuff. It made Apple look like it was suffering from events that are beyond its control, rather than being in charge of its own destiny. At one point Cook admitted the American iPhone business was shrinking, but he blamed it on Apple's own incorrect estimates of which phones customers actually wanted: In North America, we did not do as well, and this weighed our results. Our North American business contracted somewhat year over year. And if you look at the reason for this, one was that as we entered the quarter, and forecasted our iPhone sales, where we achieved what we thought, we actually sold more iPhone 5Ss than we projected. And so the mix was stronger to the 5S, and it took us some amount of time in order to build the mix that customers were demanding. And as a result, we lost some sort of units for part of the quarter in North America and relative to the world, it took us the bulk of the quarter, almost all the quarter, to get the iPhone 5S into proper supply. The other issue here is the problem of big numbers. Apple is so successful that getting double-digit percentage growth is simply much harder than it used to be. Look at this chart: BIIThe issue here is not that Apple is failing, it's that Apple is now so big it's hard to see where new iPhone buyers might come from. One answer, Apple hopes, is China. But Toni Sacconaghi of Sanford Bernstein suggested that China was a symptom of the problem, not the cure. Apple was making machines that are so expensive they don't appeal to most people, he argued, and this is hurting Apple's growth: ... if we look at your prior four quarters, fiscal ’13, Apple grew its iPhone units about 20%. The market grew in the 40s. I think this quarter, even with a new product and having China front loaded, the iPhone is going to grow at a fraction of ultimately what the market is likely to grow at. And I know your belief and philosophy historically has been that you want to make the best product, and that’s the most important thing, but in Macs, you’ve actually succeeded in making the best product and being able to gain share. You cited again how you’ve gained share in 30 out of the last 31 quarters in Mac. But in iPhone, that is not happening. ... do you propose to do anything differently going forward? Cook was careful to note that Apple's deal with China's largest wireless carrier, China Mobile, was only a couple of weeks old and had yet to hit results. "We’ve been selling with China Mobile now for about a week, and last week was the best week for activations we’ve ever had in China. So it’s been an incredible start, and at this moment, we’re just selling in 16 cities with China Mobile," he said at a different point in the call. But Sacconaghi's subtext was clear: Your strategy is wrong. Mike Nudelman/Business InsiderAnalysts are still comparing Cook to Steve Jobs.But even Piper Jaffray's Gene Munster put out a gloomy note this morning talking about "core markets will make it difficult for new products to meaningfully reaccelerate revenue growth" and "a slowdown in US smartphone growth." One analyst, Bert Dohmen of Dohmen Capital Research Institute, believes AAPL will fall to $320. "Apple hasn't had any technological innovations since Steve Jobs left, and this is a company that's getting beaten by its competitors. Now, we hear the next big item (iPhone 6) is going to have a larger (screen) size, Samsung has had that for two years," he says. That seems ridiculously pessimistic to us, especially when we know that Apple has several potentially huge new products in its pipeline that will likely start rolling out in calendar Q4 2013. But the fact that people are saying such things openly only puts the pressure on Apple: These new products had better be mindblowing, and not the mere upgrades we saw last year that led to the revenue slowdown we're seeing now. FREE AppDownload
Markets took a brief hit following the release of worse-than-expected December durable goods orders data at 8:30 AM, but stocks have come storming back, and the S&amp;P 500 is now up 0.6%, trading at 1792. In addition to durable goods data: The charts below show movements in various markets. From left to right across the top are S&amp;P 500 futures, the dollar-yen exchange rate, and the euro-dollar exchange rate. From left to right across the bottom are gold futures, 10-year U.S. Treasury futures, and June 2016 eurodollar futures. Thinkorswim FREE AppDownload
EconodayThe Richmond Fed declined slightly, ticking 12. Expectations were for a reading of 13, unchanged from December. Full release » Manufacturing in the Fifth District maintained a steady pace of growth, according to the most recent survey by the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond. Shipments continued at about last month's pace, while the volume of new orders edged up. New hiring softened, while the average workweek picked up and wage growth remained solid. The backlog of new orders slowed and vendor lead time flattened in January, as capacity utilization continued to rise. Manufacturers were less buoyant about their future business conditions than they were in December. However producers continued to look for solid growth in shipments and new orders. Compared to last month's expectations, backlogs of new orders were expected to build more slowly and capacity utilization was expected to grow on pace with last month's outlook. Additionally, survey participants expected shorter vendor lead times than previously anticipated. Manufacturers looked for faster growth in the average work week, with slower increases in hiring and wages. Expectations for raw materials and finished goods prices rose at a slower rate in January. Additionally, manufacturers expected slower growth in prices paid and prices received over the next six months compared to last month's predictions.   FREE AppDownload
APThe results of the Conference Board's January consumer confidence survey are out. The headline index increased to 80.7 in January, beating analyst expectations of 78.0 (and up from last month's revised print of 77.5). The present situation index edged up to 79.1 from 75.3 and the expectations index increased to 81.8 from 79.0. Markets are up on the news, with both the Dow and S&amp;P 0.60% higher. "The Labor Differential, an indicator that does a reasonable job tracking the unemployment rate, improved to a cycle high of -19.9," Renaissance Macro's Neil Dutta noted to clients. "This implies an ongoing decline in the unemployment rate from its current level of 6.7% and adds pressure on the Fed to adopt a more qualitative approach to forward guidance. Despite the improvement in confidence, buying intentions, which are admittedly volatile, softened for both homes and appliances." Here's the full release from the Conference Board: The Conference Board Consumer Confidence Index®, which had rebounded in December, increased again in January. The Index now stands at 80.7 (1985=100), up from 77.5 in December. The Present Situation Index increased to 79.1 from 75.3. The Expectations Index increased to 81.8 from 79.0 last month. The monthly Consumer Confidence Survey®, based on a probability-design random sample, is conducted for The Conference Board by Nielsen, a leading global provider of information and analytics around what consumers buy and watch. The cutoff date for the preliminary results was January 16. “Consumer confidence advanced in January for the second consecutive month,” said Lynn Franco, Director of Economic Indicators at The Conference Board. “Consumers’ assessment of the present situation continues to improve, with both business conditions and the job market rated more favorably. Looking ahead six months, consumers expect the economy and their earnings to improve, but were somewhat mixed regarding the outlook for jobs. All in all, confidence appears to be back on track and rising expectations suggest the economy may pick up some momentum in the months ahead.” Consumers’ assessment of overall present-day conditions continues to improve. Those claiming business conditions are “good” increased to 21.5 percent from 20.2 percent, while those claiming business conditions are “bad” edged down to 22.8 percent from 23.2 percent. Consumers’ appraisal of the labor market was also more positive. Those saying jobs are “plentiful” ticked up to 12.7 percent from 11.9 percent, while those saying jobs are “hard to get” decreased slightly to 32.6 percent from 32.9 percent. Consumers’ expectations, which had improved sharply in December, increased again in January. Those expecting business conditions to improve over the next six months remained unchanged at 17.4 percent, while those anticipating business conditions to worsen decreased to 12.1 percent from 13.9 percent. Consumers’ outlook for the labor market was mixed. Those expecting more jobs in the months ahead declined to 15.4 percent from 17.1 percent. However, those anticipating fewer jobs decreased to 18.3 percent from 19.4 percent. The proportion of consumers expecting their incomes to increase rose to 15.8 percent from 13.9 percent, while those anticipating a decrease in their incomes declined to 13.6 percent from 14.3 percent. FREE AppDownload
A decade ago, Abercrombie &amp; Fitch was the must-have brand for teens everywhere.  The retailer has fallen on hard times, with sales falling 12% last quarter.  Today, the company announced that CEO Michael Jeffries would be stripped of his role as chairman.  The company also hired retail veterans Terry Burman and Charles Perrin to sit on its board.  A myriad of bad decisions led to Abercrombie's status as a struggling retailer today, Brian Sozzi, chief equities strategist at Belus Capital, told us late last year. Here are three issues should be forefront to Abercrombie's new board members.  1. Competition from H&amp;M and Forever 21. These retailers' offerings are cheaper and trendier than the designs found at Abercrombie &amp; Fitch, Sozzi told us. "Abercrombie is no longer the only place in the mall for teens to get stuff to wear to school," he said.  2. Teen values have shifted. "In 1999, we all wanted to fit in, but in 2013 it's about showing your identity by wearing unique accessories or clothes no one else has," Sozzi said. Other retailers like Urban Outfitters' Free People have gotten teens to spend full-price by offering more unique items, he said. But Abercrombie is perceived as boring.  3. Abercrombie's clothes are too expensive. Abercrombie and competitor American Eagle "are simply not perceived by parents as offering the best bang for their buck," Sozzi said. Online shopping and apps have made shoppers more price-conscious than ever, making this trend likely to continue even as the economy improves.  So what can Abercrombie do to recover?  Offer more promotions to get people in stores and convert new customers, Sozzi says.  Abercrombie CEO Michael Jeffries outlined a similar strategy when he last spoke with investors in November.  He also said the company will start opening outlets and will offer plus-size clothing.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brian SnyderThis morning, markets dropped briefly after the December durable goods orders data missed consensus estimates by a mile. Total orders crumbled 4.3% in December (a 1.8% gain was expected), while the previous print was revised down to 2.6% from 3.5%.  "Bottom line — This was a very weak report, and it suggests that the U.S. economy ended the year on very weak footing," TD Securities' Millan Mulraine wrote clients after the report. "In some sense, the weak tone of this report could take on added significant since it is unlikely to have been due to weather conditions, and in that regards it provides a much cleaner gauge on the underlying tone of domestic economic activity in December," he said. The durable goods report dovetails with a spate of other disappointing economic data releases.  A lot of that disappointment has been blamed on really cold weather, and market observers seem mixed on whether this string of poor economic figures is a one-off cold front or an endemic problem. First there was the December jobs report, where only 74,000 workers were added to nonfarm payrolls. That was a monster miss, leaving economists scratching their heads about the weather. Then yesterday, new home sales plunged 7.1% month-over-month for December (again, you guessed it, bad weather may be to blame). But durable goods versus weather is harder to explain, according to some market strategists. "There are a lot of ways to look at and interpret the durable goods report especially if you want to play the weather card," writes GMP Securities' Adrian Miller. "But when we take the unexpected decline in December and notable downside revision in November, there is no getting around the fact that business investments was simply not a strong as first thought."  "In short, the U.S. economy, not unlike many advanced economies need to see a notable pick up in business spending if we are to see a broadening and quickening in growth momentum in 2014," he wrote. So basically, everyone was really amped for 2014, but we've started the year with a bunch of crappy reports and market sell-offs. Maybe it was the weather, maybe it was something worse. We'll have to wait for more data to find out. FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesAbercrombie &amp; Fitch CEO Mike Jeffries has been stripped of his role as chairman of the company.  The teen retailer announced Tuesday that Arthur Martinez, the former head of Sears, will be named non-executive chairman. Jeffries has served as chairman since 1996. He will remain a director and the CEO of the company.  Abercrombie's stock rose 2% on the news in premarket trading. The company also announced Tuesday that it has added Terry Burman and Charles Perrin to its board of directors.  Burman is currently the chairman of jewelry retailer Zale Corporation and Perrin serves on the board of Campbell Soup Company. Jeffries was criticized last year for saying he only wanted "cool kids" to wear the brand's clothes. The company has also drawn fire for failing to offer larger sizes for women. As a result of the backlash, Abercrombie announced it would start offering more sizes. Abercrombie's U.S. sales fell 18% in the third quarter.  FREE AppDownload
Curtis Fry/FlickrS&amp;P/Case-Shiller home prices were up 0.88% month-over-month in November, in the 20-city index. And were up 13.71% on the year. This was in line with expectations for a 0.8% MoM rise and a 13.8% year-over-year rise. This compares to a 1.05% MoM rise in October, and a 13.61% YoY rise. Both the 10 and 20-city composites are down about 20% from their June/July 2006 peaks. Meanwhile, the 10-city index is up 23% from the March 2012 lows, while the 20-city index is up 23.7%. "November was a good month for home prices," David M. Blitzer, Chairman of the Index Committee at S&amp;P Dow Jones Indices said in a press release. "Despite the slight decline, the 10-City and 20-City Composites showed their best November performance since 2005. Prices typically weaken as we move closer to the winter. Las Vegas, Los Angeles and Phoenix stand out as they have posted 20 or more consecutive monthly gains.""Home prices continue to rise despite last May’s jump in mortgage interest rates. Mortgage applications for purchase were up in recent weeks confirming home builders’ optimism shown by the NAHB survey. Combined with low inflation -- 1.5% in 2013 – home owners are enjoying real appreciation and rising equity values. While housing will make further contributions to the economy in 2014, the pace of price gains is likely to slow during the year." After a stellar rise in home prices in 2013, economists expect the pace of home price growth to cool going forward. This is on account of higher mortgage rates, tight inventory, and fewer bargains for investors. Bank of America economists expect home prices to rise 10% on the year in 2013. Here's a look at the trajectory of home prices since 1988: S&P Case-Shiller FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Gary Cameron December durable goods orders data are out, and the numbers aren't pretty. Here's a quick roundup: The expiration of investment tax credits at year-end likely boosted November orders. If anything, this would likely have had a positive effect on December orders as well, but the numbers suggest otherwise. This release does not augur well for the outlook for business investment, which is said to be one of the key missing links in the U.S. economic recovery. Meanwhile, it also dovetails with other weak December economic data releases we've seen, like the nonfarm payrolls and new home sales reports (in both, weakness was attributed to bad weather). "This was a very weak report, and it suggests that the U.S. economy ended the year on very weak footing," says Millan Mulraine, deputy head of U.S. research and strategy at TD Securities. "In some sense, the weak tone of this report could take on added significance since it is unlikely to have been due to weather conditions, and in that regard it provides a much cleaner gauge on the underlying tone of domestic economic activity in December." S&amp;P 500 futures are about 6 points lower than prior to the release, but are still positive on the day. 10-year U.S. Treasury futures, which were negative before the release, are now up 0.2%, and the yield on the 10-year note is 2.74%, one basis point below yesterday's close. FREE AppDownload
Facebook has become totally unusable to me. There are a small number of people I don't communicate with every day - but who are old friends or were friends and I want to keep the option of re-contacting. Also family. Having 250 plus Facebook friends who met me professionally or through this blog eventually made Facebook meaningless. I didn't use it any more. Besides I don't really have 300 friends and nor do most of you. And I don't really know the 3000 people in my Google contacts. So, dear readers, I unfriended you all. Strangely though not a single person contacted me and wondered why I had unfriended them... In other words nobody noticed and cared.* Facebook revenue is still rising fairly fast. Relevance is another matter. John No position in the stock. Was long a while ago - but stuffed the timing up for small profits. *That nobody cared of course can be taken both ways. Maybe I should go back to self-loathing... FREE AppDownload
Jim EdwardsSEOUL (Reuters) - Samsung Electronics Co Ltd sold a record 86 million smartphones in the fourth quarter and widened its lead over Apple Inc even after the U.S. firm reached a new iPhone sales high, data from research firm Strategy Analytics showed. Samsung took 29.6 percent of the global smartphone market in the fourth quarter, ahead of Apple's 17.6 percent, as strong low-end market growth led by Chinese vendors continued to shake up the smartphone industry, the data showed. Apple sold a record 51 million iPhones in the year-end quarter although its market share slipped from the previous year's 22 percent, as Huawei Technologies Co Ltd and Lenovo Group Ltd rose to become the world's No.3 and No.4 respectively. Huawei sold 16.6 million smartphones and Lenovo sold 13.6 million, each taking 5.7 percent and 4.7 percent of the market. "There is clearly now more competition coming from the second-tier smartphone brands. Huawei, LG Electronics and Lenovo each grew their smartphone shipments around two times faster than the global industry average," Strategy Analytics analyst Linda Sui said. "Samsung and Apple will need to fight hard to hold off these and other hungry challengers during 2014." For the entire 2013, global smartphone shipments grew 41 percent to reach a record 990 million. Samsung sold 319.8 million units to take 32.2 percent, up from 30.4 percent in 2012. Apple sold 153.5 million iPhones with a 15.5 percent market share. (Reporting by Miyoung Kim; Editing by Stephen Coates) FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg/screenshot/SkitchOn Monday legendary venture capitalist Tom Perkins gave an interview to Bloomberg during which he defended a controversial letter that said people who criticize the rich were behaving like the Nazis did toward the Jews in World War II. At one point the co-founder of Kleiner Perkins Caulfield &amp; Byers showed off the watch that he was wearing and said "I could buy a six-pack of Rolexes for this." The watch in question is from high-end designer Richard Mille, which sells timepieces that range from tens of thousands of dollars to $2.4 million. Here's the full quote from Perkins: "The New York Times got into a discussion of Rolex watches, and why does any man need a Rolex watch, and it's a symbol of terrible values, etc., etc. Well, I think that's a little silly. This isn't a Rolex; I could buy a six-pack of Rolexes for this. But so what?"  Hillary Sargeant of The Boston Globe reports that Perkins' watch is this one, which worth about $380,000. Here's a close up of Perkins' watch, a Richard Mille -- which he told @EmilyChangTV could buy a "six pack of Rolexes" pic.twitter.com/IPHjKCgJ4q Richard Mille Here's a sampling of other Richard Mille watches: Richard Mille And here's a closer look at the "RM 26-01 Tourbillion Panda," which costs $880,500.   Richard MillesThe Richard Mille Tourbillion Panda 26-01 Here's a description of the RM 26-01 Tourbillion Panda: The new RM26-01 tourbillon caliber is equipped with a baseplate machined from black Onyx, a variety of chalcedony composed of silicon dioxide from the cryptocrystalline quartz group. Onyx varieties featuring rectilinear black and white parallel stripes are part of the agate family, whereas entirely black stones are commonly known as black Onyx. This gem is said to absorb negative energy and bring great emotional stability to the wearer. The RM 26-01 tourbillon is a limited edition of 30 timepieces in 18K red gold and white gold. Bloomberg took "a closer look at this watchmaker for the 1%." Check it out:   FREE AppDownload
Jason Lee / REUTERSChinese President Xi Jinping has created a new security commission to tackle threats to the country's financial markets, reports George Chen and Teddy Ng of the South China Morning Post. The commission will also appoint a "financial security commissioner" with experience in the industry, and confront problems that "affect domestic and social stability" — like unusual priced moves in the stock market and speculative foreign capital. Since the Third Plenum meeting on economic reform, Xi has taken major steps toward consolidating the power of the Presidential office in anything that has to do with China's economy.For example, leadership of the Central Finance and Economy Lending group — the group the decides on economic reform — was taken from the office of Premier Li Keqiang, and put under the office of the President. Li will be the vice-chair of this new committee, under Xi. There are two things to note here, and they both have to do with foreign capital. First, the State Administration of Foreign Exchange has traditionally dealt with hot money flowing into the country, and incidentally the agency's Chief Investment Officer, Zhu Changhong (formerly at PIMCO), just resigned. And second, according to the SCMP, the Chinese are concerned that foreign capital bubbling up through the shadow banking system has destabilized the Chinese financial system. From SCMP: Some government agencies had been collecting evidence and data in recent years to prove how speculative foreign capital - "hot money" - moved through the underground banking system, rocking the stock market and affecting local investors' confidence in the mainland's economic development. China's nationalists, whose voices seem to be getting louder of late, have decried this before as harmful speculation from Western short sellers. Now it seems this is a matter for China's highest office.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/David MdzinarishviliRiot police stand at their position near the site of clashes with anti-government protesters in Kiev, January 27, 2014. Police clashed with protesters in central Kiev on Sunday and the fate of Ukraine's government was uncertain after embattled President Viktor Yanukovich offered important posts to opposition leaders, including the role of prime minister. Good morning. Here's what you need to know. — The bout of "risk-off" trading that has gripped global markets over the last three sessions appears to be over, at least for the moment. S&amp;P 500 futures are pointing to a positive open, and gold is giving up some of the gains made in recent days. In Europe, markets are rallying, led by Spain's IBEX 35. In Asia, the Nikkei closed 0.2% lower and the Hong Kong Hang Seng slipped 0.1%, but the Shanghai Composite bounced 0.3%. — Apple shares are down 7.0% in pre-market trading after the company reported lackluster earnings results for the quarter ended December 31. Earnings per share were $14.50, above the consensus Wall Street estimate of $14.07, and revenue was $57.59 billion, slightly above the $57.48 billion consensus estimate, but the company offered revenue guidance for the current quarter in the range of $42 billion to $44 billion, below the $46.1 billion consensus estimate. Sales of iPhones were also significantly lower than expected at 51 million units (versus the 54.7 million estimate). — Shares of Ford Motor Company are up more than 2% in pre-market trading following the release of earnings results for the quarter ended December 31. The Detroit auto maker reported earnings per share of $0.31, above the consensus Wall Street estimate of $0.28. Revenues were $35.6 billion, slightly above the $35.5 billion consensus estimate. The company made no adjustments to its 2014 forecast. — The Reserve Bank of India unexpectedly hiked its benchmark interest rate to 8% from 7.75% following a policy meeting Tuesday, saying it would address inflation risks "resolutely" even as GDP growth slows. RBI governor Raghuram Rajan said growth can only be revived after inflation cools. The move was met with criticism by market economists, the overwhelming majority of which expected the RBI to leave rates unchanged. The Indian rupee strengthened against the U.S. dollar following the decision. — Ukrainian prime minister Mykola Azarov has offered his resignation to president Viktor Yanukovich "with the aim of creating extra means for finding a social-political compromise, for the sake of a peaceful settlement of the conflict." Kiev has been gripped by street demonstrations for several days protesting the administration's decision to pivot away from the EU and toward Russia. Over the weekend, Yanukovich offered Azarov's job to former economy minister and opposition leader Arseny Yatsenyuk in a bid to quell the uprising. — According to the advance estimate released by the Office of National Statistics this morning, the U.K. economy expanded 0.7% from the previous quarter in the fourth quarter of 2013, bringing the year-over-year change in GDP to 2.8%. Both numbers were right in line with expectations. — December durable goods orders data were considerably worse than expected. Total orders unexpectedly fell 4.3%, while orders of nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft unexpectedly dropped 1.3%. "In some sense, the weak tone of this report could take on added significance since it is unlikely to have been due to weather conditions, and in that regard it provides a much cleaner gauge on the underlying tone of domestic economic activity in December," says Millan Mulraine, deputy head of U.S. research and strategy at TD Securities. — The S&amp;P/Case-Shiller Home Price Index advanced 0.88% from the previous month in November, slowing from October's 1.05% rate of growth but exceeding consensus estimates of a 0.80% rise. The year-over-year growth rate of the index of home prices rose to 13.71% from 13.61%. — The results of the Conference Board's monthly consumer confidence survey are released at 10:00 AM. Economists predict the report's headline index ticked down to 78.0 this month from 78.1 in December. — Also out at 10:00 are the results of the Richmond Fed's monthly manufacturing survey. Economists predict the report's headline index was unchanged at 13 in January, indicative of a continued favorable business environment. The survey polls manufacturers from Maryland, Virginia, West Virginia, North Carolina, and South Carolina on regional business conditions. Follow all of the data LIVE on Business Insider » MARKET COMMENTARY "Risk aversion is back, and so is talk of public debt restructuring, even if most likely a coincidence with the EM sell-off. In the days leading up to Davos, there has been renewed talk of the need to plan for a restructuring of high-grade sovereign debt in the years to come. "A summary of the issues around restructuring raised at Bruegel can be found here, in part based on this August 2013 paper. This is just all talk for now. But given plausible projections of 150%+ for debt/GDP in countries today rated AAA, the next 10 years provide time for this 'reprofiling' talk to come to fruition. "There are no immediate market implications. Just investors who are already thinking about how their portfolio is constituted in 10 years' time should consider largely overweighting non-government paper." —Ciaran O’Hagan and Jorge Garayo, interest rate strategists at Société Générale "Recent data indicate continued improvement in the fiscal picture...the fiscal deficit on a 12-month trailing basis has improved markedly over the past year. Some of this deficit reduction stems from one-off factors such as the 2013 tax increases that will have permanent level effects, while some of the reduction comes from transient factors like special dividends paid by Fannie Mae, and more recently, Freddie Mac. "However, there has also been a fundamental improvement in the underlying trend which we expect to continue. With the first fiscal quarter of the year known <U+2015> most of the net deficit for the year tends to occur in the first half of the fiscal year <U+2015> it now appears that the risks are skewed toward a smaller deficit than our current FY2014 forecast of $600 billion, which already included allowances for special factors such as the $30 billion dividend paid by Freddie Mac in December. "In the near term, CBO will release its annual Budget and Economic Outlook on Tuesday, February 4. We will take particular note of whether the CBO adjusts down its current FY2014 deficit forecast of $560 billion. In terms of implications for Treasury issuance, the macro trend towards lower deficits will argue for lower net financing needs this year and the next, in our view. However, in the very near term, we think that more idiosyncratic factors will be key drivers of Treasury's financing decisions." —Kris Dawsey, an economist at Goldman Sachs These days, emerging-market assets are the hot potato that no one wants to touch. Fears of risk assets spurred by pockets of weak EM data have garnered maybe a disproportionate amount of headlines. But when we look at which EM currencies that are being hit the most, there is a divide. On one side, the better-performing currencies are generally Asian: KRW, TWD, CNY, SGD. The ones that have been hurt the most have been non-Asian — led by the Argentinian peso, which is down 20% over the past four quarters. Within that group of laggards is a subgroup that is heavily dependent on the commodity cycle, including Argentina, Brazil, South Africa and Russia. Commodity prices have declined steadily since 2011 and as a result, growth in these countries has been negatively affected. The developed world has seen an uptick in growth, particularly the U.S. and the euro area, but unfortunately this may not be to the benefit of EM countries that rely heavily on commodity exports. While certain EM countries like China, Taiwan and South Korea should benefit from rising growth in the U.S. and Europe through exports, general weakness in the EM domestic economies should temper growth in demand for commodities and thus restrain gains in the CRB. The bottom line is this: not all EM countries are created equal and should not be placed in the same basket, and those that may stand to benefit the least are commodity-linked currencies. —Neil Dutta, head of U.S. economics at Renaissance Macro Research FREE AppDownload
Reuters Images/Suzanne PlunkettThe Queen’s household finances were at a “historic low” with just £1<U+2009>million left in reserve, MPs said on Monday. Her courtiers were advised to take money-saving tips from the Treasury. A report by the Commons public accounts committee found that the Queen’s advisers were failing to control her finances while the royal palaces were “crumbling”. MPs said her advisers had overspent to such an extent that her reserve fund had fallen from £35<U+2009>million in 2001 to just £1<U+2009>million today. The Royal household had made efficiency savings of just 5 per cent over the past five years compared with government departments, that are cutting their budgets by up to a third. MPs on the committee said the Treasury must “get a grip” and help to protect the royal palaces from “further damage and deterioration”. Margaret Hodge, the Labour chairman of the committee, said: “We believe that the Treasury has a duty to be actively involved in reviewing the household’s financial planning and management — and it has failed to do so.” Buckingham Palace and Windsor Castle are reported to be in urgent need of repair. Staff must catch rain in buckets to protect art and antiquities, while the Queen’s old boilers were contributing to bills of £774,000 a year. Mrs Hodge said: “The household must get a much firmer grip on how it plans to address its maintenance backlog. It has not even costed the repair works needed to bring the estate back to an acceptable condition. Again, the Treasury has an oversight role here.” In April 2012 the Sovereign Grant replaced the old way of funding the Royal family through the Civil List and various Government grants. The Sovereign Grant represents 15 per cent of the net surplus income of the Crown Estate, land holdings that generate money for the Treasury. A Buckingham Palace spokesman said the sovereign grant had made the Queen’s funding “more transparent and scrutinized” and was resulting in a “more efficient use of public funds”. He said that repairing the royal palaces was a “significant financial priority”, and that the Royal household had almost doubled its income to £11.6<U+2009>million since 2007. The spokesman said: “The move to the Sovereign Grant has created a more transparent and scrutinised system, which enables the Royal household to allocate funding according to priorities. This has resulted in a more efficient use of public funds.” A Treasury spokesman said: “The new arrangements established by the Sovereign Grant Act have made the royal finances more transparent than ever while providing the long term stability necessary for good planning.” Read more Queen's advisers wasting money while royal palaces are 'crumbling' Royal adviser enjoyed £7,000 pay rise  FREE AppDownload
Ford / InstagramFord shares are ticking higher after Ford just reported Q4 earnings of 31 cents, 3 cents ahead of expectations. The company says last year was one if its best ever. From the announcement: FREE AppDownload
I run a hedge fund which means I am meant to hedge risk. However if you hedge away all your risk you hedge away all your returns. So you have in your head (or computer) some model of how the world works and what things should be correlated and what should not and you make your bets accordingly. If your model is good and your position (stock) picking is good you should outperform some market (maybe a 40% bonds, 60% equity portfolio) at lower risk than the above portfolio. But alas the hedges are necessarily imperfect hedges. [Perfectly hedged portfolios make cash returns - which at the moment is zero before fees...] And with imperfect hedges sometimes the hedges don’t work. It doesn’t matter how famous you are or how clever you are – you still have to deal with the time when your hedges don’t work. It happens to all of us. [Truly - if you find a hedge fund manager who says they have never had "model failure" then find another fund manager.] Its in this context (and noting his massive returns last year) that I remind my readers of aBloomberg news interview with Tepper less than two months ago.  In this interview Tepper restates his case for equity markets being cheap enough and cheap compared to (say) bonds. I don't think it is a bad case - I don't think large caps are expensive. But they are more expensive than a few years ago. [See previous Bronte comments on the state of the market here and here.] [For the record I think there is a bubble in biotech and non-telecom stocks that are purchased primarily for their dividends and English language small caps that are not financial institutions.]The real action in the above interview happens about four and half minutes in where Tepper outlines his short case for bonds. He is not short them because he thinks that there will be inflation (in fact he doesn't think there will be). Rather he is short them as a hedge against the consequence of the Federal Reserve trying to exit QE policies.Bluntly that hedge did not work this week and particularly on Friday.Equity markets had their worst day in yonks. The airlines (Tepper's biggest position) were not exactly good either (as they were typically off over 4 percent - double the market).Bond markets however had a very good day. Long bond indices rose several percent in value.In other words Tepper was long the bad stuff, short the good stuff and the short was meant to be his hedge.His hedge did not work. Badly. I suspect he was down more than 4 percent on the day - maybe double the equity market.As I said every single decent manager will have days when the hedge does not work. There is no implied criticism of Tepper here. [I watched that interview because I admire him...]And I doubt his clients would be worried either. I have never watched Appaloosa pitch to clients but I suspect the risks are accurately described and I suspect David Tepper would say to his clients that if they cannot handle a low-single-digit down day or two they should not be clients. [I know Bronte would want to dissuade such people from being clients...]But I also know what David Tepper is feeling. At Bronte we also had the worst day in our history (although it was not as bad as I think David Tepper's day was).First you feel a little beaten up. But at some stage you need to (seriously) examine the possibility you are wrong. And at that point the emotion turns to self-loathing. It is surprising but many of the best asset managers I know really hate themselves. It's an occupational hazard - and indeed may be a pre-requisite to being really good at this game.That said, self-loathing is not a very productive emotion. You shouldn't just stand there like a deer blinded by headlights.The thought pattern (and this thought pattern can be ex-ante programmed into a computer if you want) has to turn to risk management - how do we behave if we continue to be wrong? At what point should we pull-the-plug and accept that we just don't get it.The purpose of this blog post is to explore what to do with the portfolio when the hedge is not working. That is a discussion we are having at Bronte because this week it has not been working (although not in a very serious way). And I have written this from the perspective of a stock-picking long-short equity manager. [The discussion has the same intellectual components from the perspective of a computer driven trading shop - but I can't speak to the specific detail.]Bronte's portfolio positioningBecause I don't want to give away all the tricks of the trade I am going to describe Bronte's portfolio in an idealized position. [Day-to-day situations vary.]We have a long book which is mostly large cap like Verizon (although includes a few disclosed mid-caps like Herbalife) which should have a beta of roughly 1. On a day-to-day basis Herbalife is our highest beta stock.We have a short book which is full of the widest and wildest range of scum, villainy, stock promotes and general nonsense we can find. The typical short position is a biotech scam stock or something like that. Some of these are very high beta indeed and the short book has a beta of about 2.We may typically be 130 percent long, 50 percent short - but beta-adjusted we are only a net 30-40 percent long. Day to day movements usually reflect this. On a day when the market is up 1% we are typically only up 0.3-0.4 percent. When the market goes down a percent we typically go down a similar amount. To keep the maths simple I presume an ex-ante portfolio beta of 0.4 for the rest of the discussion.As we have been right a fair bit of the time in our specific stock picks we have accumulated returns that are way better than equity market returns even though we believe we have been taking less than equity market risks.This week however our performance has been bad. We have tracked down roughly 150 percent of equity market returns. Friday was - as I said - the worst day in our history - but the loss was only 150 percent of equity market returns...But whilst Friday was the worst day in our history this month has not been the worst month in our history. We have only had one month where the model looked truly broken - and that was January 2012. We wrote it up at length for our clients. In that month we went down roughly 6 percent when the markets went up roughly 5 percent.As our day-to-day beta is roughly 0.4 we should have been up roughly 2% in a 5% up market. Our 6 percent loss was about 8% of under performance - by far the worst month we have ever had.In January 2012 we got both ends of our portfolio wrong. Some of our longs went down in a good market. Our shorts ripped up in our face. The letter we wrote at the time noted the largish losses we were taking on Google. [Google was one of our biggest positions and it fell from $660 to $580 or so that month. As discussed in the letter we purchased a tiny amount more...]However Google wasn't where the action was. Our shorts ripped up in that month - some costing us more than 30 percent. Ex-ante we estimated their beta wrong.Lets model how this looks.Our ex-ante position was At the end of the month our longs had gone up say 2 percent (substantially less than market).Our shorts had gone up 18 percent (substantially more than market).Our position would thus be: However we have had losses - on these numbers adding up to 6.4 percent. Our capital has decreased from 100 to 93.6.Our gross leverage has thus increased to 191.6/93.6 - or roughly 205 percent.This is kind of shocking - we had 6.4 percent of losses but our gross leverage increased by 25 percentage points.This is a real hedge isn't working situation. We had no choice but to cut positions - and we cut them fairly aggressively. We would have loved to add more Google into that slide - we really would have loved it. But we couldn't. We were forced to cut positions - and could only add more Google because we chose to cut other positions.--Now lets compare this to this week. Our shorts have been going down - but our longs have been going down far more. (Witness Herbalife's big decline and Herbalife is not our only bad stock this week.)Our aggregate position size has been shrinking more or less in line with our capital. We are not becoming dramatically more leveraged. And because we are not becoming dramatically more leveraged we can sit it out.David Tepper's leverage probably* won't have changed by more than a couple of percent either. He can sit it out too.And so we can examine (and will examine) individual positions but the market hasn't pointed a gun at our head and forced us to take off positions. Inaction is thus an acceptable policy.So I can just go back to self-loathing then. I guess David Tepper can do the same (but I suspect he hides it better than me...)John*I am not privy to Tepper's aggregate positioning. All I know is from the above interview - hence the word "probably". FREE AppDownload
This was a pretty interesting piece in NewScientist about the stock market and how the herding effect can lead to market bubbles and crashes.  The article cites a study by European researchers who studied traders and found some empirical evidence that gives credence to the idea of bubbles.  The piece says: “the team simulated a network of 1600 traders betting on whether the Standard &amp; Poor’s 500 index would go up or down – a proxy for buying and selling activity – based on historical data. At every step in the simulation, each trader tries to predict the movement of the index on the next step. Traders have a quantity of information about the market and use this to inform their prediction. The traders take into account the bets their neighbours make and may revise their own on the next step as a result. This can lead to a chain reaction of bets and thus bubbles and crashes. The team attempted to combat these events by introducing traders who don’t accept or transmit information and bet randomly instead. They found that increased numbers of coin-flipping investors reduced the size and frequency of extreme financial events (Physical Review E, doi.org/q4d). In the real world, Pluchino says central banks could take on the role of random traders to calm markets.” I always find it so strange when someone denies the existence of bubbles.  It seems as though they either reject behavioral finance or, more likely, they’ve never experienced a trading floor.  More interesting is that many of these findings are at odds with the idea that the markets are just a random walk.  Instead, there appears to be patterns and trends that develop.  And they’re well grounded in our tendency to herd.  And all of this actually increases the potential for market avalanches. What’s most interesting is that the researchers find that if they can reduce the herding effect (through randomly interjected strategies within the network) they can reduce the odds of an avalanche.  In other words, if they can make the market more of a random walk then they can actually make it react more efficiently. That’s a lot to chew on. FREE AppDownload
President Barack Obama is to promise a ‘year of action’ in his State of the Union address on Tuesday as he pledges to help restore the American dream to the country’s hard-pressed middle classes ahead of this year’s Congressional elections. With personal-approval ratings in the doldrums, a congress controlled by Republican rivals and his flagship health reforms still struggling, Mr Obama will deliver the annual address in the face of strong political headwinds. However, aides promised that Mr Obama would seek to bypass Congress wherever possible to push through his stalling second-term agenda. "The president sees this as a year of action, to work with Congress where he can and to bypass Congress where necessary. To lift folks who want to come up into the middle class,” said Jay Carney, the White House press secretary. The minimum wage ranks among Mr Obama’s top domestic priorities, alongside boosting investment in education and immigration reform. Many of the president’s pledges and demands from 2013 such as universal pre-schooling remain unfulfilled, however aides have pointed to a series of executive orders on climate change as an example of what could be achieved without Congress. “You can do a lot,” said Dan Pfeiffer, a senior adviser to Mr Obama, adding that the president was not going “to wait for Congress” but would use all his other powers around the edges, starting with a three-city tour this week to take his message to the public. Republicans have already signalled that they will respond by painting Mr Obama as a lame-duck president who has failed to deliver concrete improvements on jobs and simply bemoaned inequality instead of creating greater opportunity. The party’s weekly address accused Mr Obama of pushing for “more regulations, more taxes, higher utility bills and health-care turmoil”, which they contend has damaged the economy. Scott Walker, the governor of Wisconsin who is tipped to run for the Republican presidential nomination in 2016, said Mr Obama should talk about people — not programmes — and drive a manufacturing revival by valuing “welders or fabricators” as much as “doctors and lawyers”. “If he really wants to bring us together, talk about things that Republicans and Democrats can agree on,” he told Fox News. Republicans are also expected to use the occasion to try and improve their standing with women by awarding the honour of replying to State of the Union address to Cathy McMorris Rodgers, their highest-ranking female Congresswoman and a mother of three. The speech is expected to be watched by some 30 million viewers — far less than the 53.2 million that tuned into the president’s 2009 address. Guests in the First Lady’s box are to include two victims of last April’s Boston Marathon bombings, the fire chief of an Oklahoma town devastated by a tornado last May and a schoolboy inventor whose “marshmallow cannon” was praised by Mr Obama at a White House science fair.  This article originally appeared at The Daily Telegraph .  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Joe Weisenthal, Business InsiderHere's an interesting note from Stephen Church at SocGen, who argues that in Japan 'Abeism' is getting in the way of 'Abenomics.' Abenomics, as everyone knows by now, is the name given to the economic stimulus measures of Japanese PM Shinzo Abe. The most potent of the stimulus measures is aggressive monetary easing. 'Abeism' has to do with Abe's own nationalist vision for Japan. Church argues that the latter is getting in the way of the former. He writes: There is the Japanese proverb about ‘running after two rabbits and catching none.’ Shinzo Abe is giving the impression of running after both Abeism and Abenomics. Abeism is not just a diversion from Abenomics, it is also the cause of a degree of concern. In this respect there is the Abeist ‘Walking Tall’ vis-à-vis China and Korea. Detailed media reporting of the background to the Abe Yasukuni Shrine visit appears to demonstrate a somewhat amateur and cavalier attitude towards accepted diplomatic norms by those advising Abe. The concern is both generalised and specific. Abeism Explained: A Revanchist Sectarianism to Bring Back the Golden Years Abe inherited a ‘sacred trust’ from his grandfather Nobusuke Kishi. It is a rightist and revanchist sectarianism organised as an Abe Super-Faction: ‘Rebirth Japan’ (Sosei Nippon) that looks back to the pre-war period as the golden years. Undoing the US occupation reforms is the way to get back to those golden years. Its peculiarity at international law is that it denies the international order established in 1945. The United Nations ‘Big Five’ were the victors and the Axis powers the defeated. Abenomics Explained: The Four Arrows of Getting the Economy Moving Again The long stagnation of the Japanese economy was due to the unorthodox fiscal policy (loose) and monetary policy (tight) mix. The mix should have been reversed, but was not. Arrow One (quantitative easing) and MoF Arrow ‘Four’ (fiscal consolidation) make that reversal. However, Arrow Two (fiscal stimulus) and Arrow Four are a wash and Arrow Three (growth policies) is proving to be something of a bureaucrat paper chase. Thus, everything hangs on the Haruhiko Kuroda BoJ. Governor Kuroda and his deputy Kikuo Iwata appear to be up to the task and all is well with Arrow One. The report goes deeply into the tension between the two themes, and points out that Abe's focus on 'Abeism' (including his visit to a controversial war shrine that angered China) has left him with less capital, and less time to focus on things like delaying an upcoming consumption tax increase that will cancel out fiscal stimulus. The Abeist visions were the talk of Davos in 2014, and the question of whether they will get in the way of Japan's economic comeback is certainly worth watching. FREE AppDownload
Paula Bronstein / GettyBurmese migrants workers peel shrimp at a shrimp factory in Mahachai, Thailand.Here's a great paragraph on emerging markets from Kit Juckes of SocGen: There has been a shift in the balance of global growth as Chinese demand for raw material wanes, and as higher wages and strong currencies make many EM economies less competitive. Meanwhile, the Fed policy cycle IS turning, and 4 years of capital being pushed out in a quest for less derisory yields, are ending. This isn't a repeat of the 1990s Asian crises, because domestic conditions are completely different but it is a turn in the global market cycle. We need to transition from a world where investment is pushed out of the US/Europe/Japan to one where it is pulled in by attractive prospects. When that happens, flows will be differentiated much more from one country (em or otherwise) to another. But for now, we're just waiting for global capital flows to calm down. In the meantime,  We'll watch the high-beta assets and currencies rally, and we'll wait to sell again. Core G10FX views (more weakness ahead for the AUD and CAD) are unchanged. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
BEIJING (AP) — Authorities in eastern China announced a ban Tuesday on live poultry sales following an increase in the number of people infected with the H7N9 strain of bird flu, with the busy Chinese New Year travel period already under way. So far this year, the virus has killed 20 people in China out of 96 known infections, according to the official Xinhua News Agency. The deaths were in eastern Shanghai, neighboring Zhejiang province and southern Guangdong province. A week ago, more than 50 cases had been reported. The virus remains hard to catch and most cases have been linked to contact with poultry. The jump in cases comes during the 40-day travel period around Chinese New Year, a period that concerns health authorities because of the volume of people traveling in crowded trains and buses, often with live chickens aboard. Chinese are expected to make 3.6 billion trips as families reunite. The holiday, which officially starts Friday, also falls during the winter months when flu typically rages. On Tuesday, Hong Kong authorities culled 20,000 birds, mostly chickens, at a wholesale market after poultry from Guangdong tested positive for the H7N9 virus, the first time it had been found in imported poultry in Hong Kong. They put the birds into black plastic bags and pumped in carbon dioxide to suffocate them, and closed the market for three weeks. Live poultry trading will be halted in cities in coastal Zhejiang province from Feb. 15, where 49 people have been infected and 12 people have died this year, according to the Zhejiang Daily, which is run by the province's propaganda department. From July, city poultry markets will be closed. Neighboring Shanghai will halt live poultry trading for three months starting Friday. The city has reported eight infections and four deaths this year. The World Health Organization says there is no evidence of sustained human-to-human transmission, but has recommended close monitoring given the holiday travel and the potentially unpredictable behavior of flu viruses. Over the weekend, health authorities in eastern Jiangxi province confirmed a second human case of H10N8, a new strain of bird flu known to affect humans. They said the 55-year-old woman was in critical condition. The first case was confirmed in December after a 73-year-old woman died from the virus. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg)Wall Street strategists expect the Central Bank of Turkey to announce a massive rate hike today at an emergency meeting to conclude at midnight local time in Ankara. Yesterday, as the currency hit another new all-time low against the U.S. dollar, the CBRT announced it would hold the meeting, sending the lira surging. Despite the lira's recent slide, the central bank passed on a rate hike at a regularly-scheduled meeting last week. Many believe the inaction was the result of significant political pressure. Now, strategists believe the CBRT will go big. Olgay Buyukkayali, an EEMEA FX and rates strategist at Nomura, believes the central bank will hike rates by 200 basis points. "We think policy will get simpler (or at least the success of it depends on that)," says Buyukkayali. "The Bank may achieve this by committing to bring the marginal funding rate to 9.75%, i.e., hike the current 7.75% by 200 basis points with a hawkish bias, and keep this as the only funding rate in the next few months." Timothy Ash, chief emerging-markets economist at Standard Bank, thinks the CBRT has to go even bigger. "If they don't, their credibility will be shot through and the lira will go through 2.5 against the USD, and quick," he says. "The assumption is that they have to hike policy rates, and very significantly, i.e., 3oo basis points plus, with more to come." Others, like George Magnus, former chief economist and current senior economic adviser to UBS, believe the emergency meeting is not in fact about a rate hike at all, but about more drastic measures, such as implementing capital controls. "It would be pretty unusual to have a meeting and a midnight statement where you were just going to announce a standard change in monetary policy," Magnus told Bloomberg News this morning. "The odd time does suggest, to me, something that's going to be much more market-sensitive in that it will affect the operation of markets, not just the cost of funding." Stay tuned — tomorrow night should be interesting. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsGood morning! The market bleeding has stopped. European markets are up across the board, and US futures are up to the tune of 0.4%. Emerging market currencies have stabilized, in part as traders wait for tonight's emergency meeting of Turkey's central bank. A huge rate hike is expected in order to stem the decline of the Turkish lira. Last night, India's central bank surprised with a rate hike in order to support the rupee and fight inflation. Pre-market we've seen strong earnings from Ford, which is on the rise. The NASDAQ will be dragged down today by weakness at Apple, which is off 7% pre-market after poor earnings. It's a solid day for economic data today, as we get industrial production and the Case-Shiller housing report. FREE AppDownload
