Here's an important chart we've seen in various permutations recently. This particular version comes from Commonwealth Bank of Australia, and it shows the trajectory of current Japanese consumption vs. Japanese consumption in 1997, the last time there was a hike in the consumption tax. As has been well discussed, despite the inclination and desire to stimulate the economy, Japan recently late its consumption tax jump from 5 to 8%. So what happened last time? A big spike pre-jump (getting ahead of the hike) and then a violent tumbling in growth. Watch this in the coming months. Commonwealth Bank FREE AppDownload
REUTERSA trader rises above the crowd to get his order in July 4, 1997 during a dramatic morning session at the Hong Kong Futures Exchange. Good morning, and welcome to Friday! Here’s what you need to know: The Australian market is heading for a flat lead-in the weekend after the week’s momentum in the US was killed off by some weak jobs and service sector data overnight. Eurozone rates were left on hold as expected, and ECB president Mario Draghi told the monthly press conference that the US Fed’s QE program was discussed by the board, “not neglected”, he said, in the course of a “very rich and ample discussion”. It’s non-farm payrolls day! What is arguably the most important economic data point in the world is out tonight at 11.30pm AEDT. The market is expecting an increase of around 200,000 but the number has the capacity to surprise either side. There’s a full guide to this month’s report here and you can join in with your guesses for the number with the hashtag #NFPGuesses. Don’t forget to ping BI executive editor Joe Weisenthal (@TheStalwart) with your guess.  In Asia yesterday the news of the Chinese mini-stimulus – they’re making some moves to increase infrastructure activity – left traders in Shanghai cold. The exchange dropped 0.73% to 2,044. The Nikkei on the other hand took succour from news of the government action but it’s more about the Yen’s weakness (USDJPY rally) and while it closed at 15,072 it has slipped around 30 points in overnight trade. Like the Australian market Asia will be waiting on non-farms tonight.  Opposition leader Bill Shorten has been canvassing some major reforms to the Australian Labor Party with colleagues, most significantly dropping the requirement that members and candidates be union members, according to The Australian. He plans to announce the reforms on Monday. He gets support from the NSW Labor secretary Jamie Clements, whowrites in the paper today that the membership restrictions “have had their day.  It may have been a relatively flat week on the markets as we head towards the US jobs report but on economic policy in Australia, everything has changed. The week started with Treasurer Joe Hockey warning about the need for tough decisions in the year ahead, then on Wendesday Treasury Secretary Martin Parkinson put reform of the GST on the table. This was followed yesterday by RBA Governor Glenn Stevens, who pointed to the need for individual policy decisions necessary to secure future growth and living standards. The boundaries of the economic policy debate are now significantly wider than they were five days ago and this is not unhelpful for Hockey as he prepares to deliver his first Budget next month.  Stevens also warned yesterday that people investing in the hot housing markets of Melbourne and Sydney need to remember that property isn’t a “sure bet”.)  It may be closing its manufacturing operations in Australia but Holden still has ambitions for the local market: it wants to be the number one car brand in the country by 2020. They’ll need to start making radically different cars; their sales in Australia have been killed by dying consumer demand for sedans. Australians want either small city runabouts or larger SUVs these days and Holden does neither well.  Hundreds of dolphins are being killed by trawling fishing practices off Australia’s northwest coast. Dolphin bycatch is a well-known global problem but the scale of the problem in our region has been quantified in a new study.  Scientists have done some research on why we think shopping makes us happy: it turns out we have a hard time placing an economic value on life experiences that we keep as memories.  Israel Folau is out of the Waratahs squad for the weekend’s Super Rugby fixture against the Stormers. The loss of the Tahs’ star player is a huge blow to the team’s as-yet-winless tour of South Africa. Kurtley Beale, who has been having a great season so far in the centres, moves to full-back.   Bonus item: Just your regular dance interval at an Irish wedding. (It’ll blow you away.)  Have a great weekend. I’m on Twitter: @colgo This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Andrea Comas FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Rising Rates Aren't Necessarily Bad For Bond Investors (Vanguard) With interest rates expected to rise, investors are worried that 2013 marked a tough patch for bonds where yields would rise and prices decline. But Robert F. Auwaerter, principal and head of Vanguard's Fixed Income Group, thinks the market has already priced in the possibility of rising interest rates that could cause bond prices to fall. The more difficult question is "Will rates rise more than what's been priced in?" And that, he says, is much harder to answer.  "But it's worth remembering that rising rates are not necessarily a bad thing if you have a long time horizon and the average maturity of your bond fund is shorter than your time horizon [the time until you'll need the money]. For example, if you're invested in an intermediate-term bond fund and you have a longer-term time horizon, you're going to get a better total rate of return with interest rates rising, because you're going to be reinvesting those coupon payments and principal payments at higher rates. It becomes a problem when investors, in their search for higher yields, invest in long-duration assets but have a shorter time horizon. That's where you potentially get hurt." Monetary Policy Is No Longer In Sync With Economic and Market Cycles (Goldman Sachs Asset Management) In the U.S. and U.K. central bank policies have gotten out of sync with economic and market cycles, according to the folks at Goldman Sachs Asset Management. "We think this is particularly true in the U.S., where monetary policy appears more consistent with an economy in the early stages of recovery, while return prospects and volatility in corporate credit and other fixed income risk sectors appear more consistent with a maturing economic expansion." "In our view, something has to give: either monetary policy is too far behind the economic cycle and needs to catch up, or the market cycle is too far ahead of the economy and needs to correct. We believe monetary policy needs to catch up with growth, and that interest rates in the U.S and U.K. are likely to rise by a significant amount in the next one to two years. A second implication is that corporate credit, non-agency mortgages and other fixed income risk sectors may not offer the same strong returns as in recent years, but returns should still be positive." Goldman Sachs Asset Management In The More Normal Market Ahead, Investors Will Need New Signals (Bernstein Global Wealth Management) As the Federal Reserve begins to pare back liquidity, and with valuations in the stock markets of developed countries are at their long-term historical averages, we're returning to a more normal market. In the more normal market,  "investors will need to rely on other signals for direction," according to the folks at Bernstein Global Wealth Management. "Among the key indicators will be data on global economic health, and we systematically track such releases across all major economies. In a high-consensus environment, we are particularly interested in how the new data stack up against expectations: in other words, the degree of positive or negative surprise from actual versus predicted results." What Advisors Can Learn From Startups (WealthManagement.com) John Kador at WealthManagement.com is out with a list of seven lessons that advisors can learn from startups. 1. "Focus relentlessly on the use experience" - See what a client's experience would be using your website or calling your office. 2. "Outsource as much as possible" - Outsource non-essential tasks like social media outreach.3. "Organize the work environment for creativity" - "One reason startups are so innovative is that their work environments are set up to foster real creativity, not just someone’s arbitrary perception of “professionalism.”4. "Favor transparency" - Younger clients especially value transparency and this helps organizations become "more nimble, more adaptive, and more innovative."5. "Adopt and test ideas quickly" - "If there’s one reason startups disrupt existing businesses, it’s that they believe the key to creativity is constant experimentation."6. "Surround yourself with people who challenge you" - Don't try and be the expert that knows everything about everything, instead look for others that can challenge you. 7. "Exploit social media for all it's worth" - "There’s no better bang for the buck than targeted social media, a reality that all startups embrace." A Fascinating Way To See Bubbles Within The Stock Market (Goldman Sachs) Bubbles can be hard to spot, but Goldman Sachs' David Kostin is out with a chart that offers an interesting way to spot bubbles. This shows a composition of different sectors of the S&amp;P 500 by market cap since 1974. Bubbles can be seen when a sector balloons as a percent of the S&amp;P 500. "Financials was only the third sector since 1975 to represent 20% of the market capitalization of the S&amp;P 500," writes Kostin. "However, Financials share of the S&amp;P 500 market cap has declined from 22% to as low as 9% in early March 2009." Goldman Sachs FREE AppDownload
International trade is a hugely important part of our economy, and national statistics are closely watched. This morning, a wider-than-expected trade deficit caused economists to cut their GDP forecasts. In addition to national numbers, the Census Bureau also keeps track of imports and exports for each of the states. This map shows the international export commodity or product from each state with the greatest dollar value in 2013: Andy Kiersz/Business Insider, data from U.S. Census Some goods are very common — 12 states have airplanes and airplane components as their most valuable export. Seven states have either crude or refined oil, five have computer components, and four have gold. The table below shows the 2013 volume of these goods, in millions of dollars, for each state and the District of Columbia: U.S. Census
JP Morgan FundsThe U.S. stock market is near an all-time high. And as the economy continues to recover, investors are preparing for rising interest rates. But they also have China's economic slowdown, emerging market weakness, and the tensions between Russia and Ukraine to contend with. David Kelly and the market strategy team at JPMorgan Asset Management has put out its Q2 Guide to Markets, to help investors. Kelly addresses every major issue affecting the markets and economies both domestic and foreign. This presentation consists of five sections: equities, the economy, fixed income, international, and asset classes. Note: Thanks to J.P. Morgan Asset Management for giving us permission to feature this presentation.
ForaTv/ YoutubeNYU professor and L2 founder Scott Galloway.Twitter is currently trading at around $44 a share, but media analyst and NYU marketing professor Scott Galloway thinks the company is worth about a quarter of that. In a conversation at the Ad Age Digital conference Wednesday, he said traders are making a mistake valuing the company's market capitalization at $24.75 billion, a figure that is currently about 37 times its annual revenues. By comparison, Galloway notes that LinkedIn is trading at about 20 times revenues, a statistic that should be especially troubling for Twitter given that LinkedIn has a more diverse revenue stream due to its advertising, job-seeking and subscription businesses. Twitter, on the other hand, is entirely reliant on advertisers. "We believe it’s vastly overvalued and that the love affair with Twitter is about to come to an end," said Galloway, who also runs the L2 digital innovation think tank. "If you look at the number of advertisers advertising on each platform, LinkedIn actually has more advertisers than Twitter." He went on to say that Twitter will have trouble earning advertising dollars once marketers decide to stop experimenting with new platforms and instead choose to focus their budgets on the one or two platforms they feel work best. Galloway predicts these platforms will be Facebook, YouTube, and Instagram, and social networks like Twitter, Foursquare, and Pinterest will be left fighting over crumbs. That's because he feels the two requirements for a successful social business are that they be mobile-first and have a strong visual component. "Your clients are sort of done playing in traffic trying to spread their peanut butter across eight or nine different platforms. I think you’re going to see a consolidation like, ‘These are the two platforms we’re going to invest in, and everybody else is going to be left out in the cold,'" Galloway said. "You see a substantial decline in shareholder value based on the expectations you’re talking about. Anybody who can do math looks at Twitter and says, 'That stock should not be above 10 bucks a share.'" FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsNew York Stock Exchange, 1928Stocks were mixed today. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
There are many ways to contextualize America's growing economic and racial inequality: through the growth of new tech hubs in old industrial cities, the cost burden of inadequate transit access, or simply by comparing the lowest and highest earners in each region. In the case of Chicago, this series of maps, which show the disappearing middle class since 1970, may be the most striking and easy-to-process yet: Courtesy Daniel Hertz  Put together by Daniel Hertz, a masters student at the Harris School of Public Policy at the University of Chicago, the maps show each Census tract's median family income as a percentage of the median family income in the metro area. As Hertz says on his blog, it's easy to see these maps as a "direct consequence of rising income inequality." But researchers Sean Reardon and Kendra Bischoff, who inspired Hertz, say there's more to it than that. They determined in a 2010 study that not only is there "a robust relationship between income inequality and income segregation" in the country's largest 100 metropolitan statistical areas, but that it's had larger effects on black families than white ones. Racial and economic inequality is nothing new for Chicago, but observing the unfortunate trend as Hertz points out, reminds us that "a happier alternate reality" existed not that long ago.  FREE AppDownload
  REUTERS / Samantha SaisBOSTON/NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. attorneys general have launched a multi-state investigation into a breach in which criminals gained access to a repository of some 200 million social security numbers through a unit of data provider Experian Plc. "We are investigating," said Maura Possley, a spokeswoman for Illinois Attorney General Lisa Madigan. "It's part of a multistate investigation." Jaclyn Falkowski, spokeswoman for Connecticut Attorney General George Jepsen, said that Connecticut is looking into the matter also. Neither attorney general's office would say if other states were involved. A spokesman for Experian declined comment on the probe, saying the company does not comment on such investigations as a matter of policy. Vietnamese national Hieu Minh Ngo last month pleaded guilty in New Hampshire federal court to running an underground website that offered clients access to personal data of Americans including social security numbers, which could be used for identity theft and other types of financial fraud. Federal authorities say that he obtained some of that through a U.S. firm known as Court Ventures, which provides customers with access to court records. It also offers them access to a database of social security numbers of some 200 million Americans through a data-share arrangement with another firm, known as U.S. Info Search. Ngo obtained an account with Court Ventures sometime before March 2012, when Experian bought the data firm, by posing as a Singapore-based private investigator, according to court documents. Prosecutors say that Ngo's customers used Court Ventures to make some 3.1 million queries of the U.S. Info Search database over an 18-month period ending in February 2013. Authorities have not said how many people's data was accessed through those queries, each of which could have potentially included multiple records or returned no data. Officials with both Experian and U.S. Info Search say they have not been able to ascertain which records were accessed by Ngo's customers and are therefore unable to notify victims. "We are actively pursuing the facts and we are working to help uncover what records may have been affected," said Experian spokesman Gerry Tschopp. A spokesman for the U.S. Secret Service declined comment. The agency investigated Ngo using undercover agents and lured him from Vietnam to Guam where he was arrested. He is now awaiting sentencing in New Hampshire federal court. (Reporting by Jim Finkle and Karen Freifeld; Editing by Richard Valdmanis and Lisa Shumaker)   FREE AppDownload
The Fifth Avenue penthouse of late Seagram billionaire Edgar Bronfman Sr. was on the market for 27 days before a mystery buyer swooped with a $70 million bid this week, according to the New York Post. That's $5 million more than the original list price, and $5 million more than another well-to-do-buyer was already offering. The property is currently under contract with Brown Harris Stevens and if the sale is completed, it will be the most expensive co-op ever purchased in New York City, edging out the current record: the $54 million Fifth Avenue penthouse bought by music mogul David Geffen in 2012. Bronfman, who sold his family's spirits empire for $34 billion in 2000, had lived in the prewar building for the past 40 years until he passed away in December. The full-floor residence has a major selling point in its wrap-around terrace, but the layout of its five bedrooms, eight and a half baths and library seem outdated. One real estate source told the New York Post the new owner will likely gut the place. Take a look at the photos of the most expensive co-op as it currently stands.  The decor in Bronfman's penthouse is somewhat outdated.Curbed NY He and his family had lived there for 40 years.Curbed NY The color palette in the 16-room apartment is reminiscent of the 1970s.Curbed NY But the penthouse still maintains the architectural details common in a prewar building.Curbed NY The formal dining room has a classical layout.Curbed NY The apartment offers sprawling views of Central Park.Curbed NY The wrap-around terrace got a lot of praise when the floor plan was released ahead of the interior photos.Brown Harris Stevens FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucy NicholsonA Wal-Mart retail store is seen in Rogers, Arkansas, Nov. 8, 2009. In its annual shareholder letter, Goldman Sachs said that 43,000 candidates applied for 1,900 positions in the investment bank's extremely competitive analyst program. That translates to 23 applicants for every opening. That may seem like a lot, and it could be a sign that demand for top finance jobs remains as strong as it ever was. But by that count, it is in fact harder to get a job at Wal-Mart than it is at Goldman Sachs.  As NBC's Washington affiliate recently reported, there were 38 applicants for every one job opening at a new area store.  Of course, we're comparing two completely different kinds of fruit. We'll leave it to the reader to decide whether this says more about Goldman or Wal-Mart. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTexas investor Samuel Wyly exits the Manhattan Federal Court in New YorkNEW YORK (Reuters) - Texas tycoons Sam and Charles Wyly employed a labyrinthine system of offshore trusts to conceal stock trades in four companies on whose boards they sat, netting themselves more than $550 million in undisclosed profits, a U.S. government lawyer told a federal jury on Thursday. "This is a case about lies, deception and fraud," said Bridget Fitzpatrick, a lawyer for the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, at the start of a civil trial in New York against Sam Wyly and the estate of his late brother, Charles. The SEC has accused the Wylys of concealing stock trading from 1992 to 2004 in Sterling Software Inc, Michaels Stores Inc, Sterling Commerce Inc, and Scottish Annuity &amp; Life Holdings Ltd through the use of more than a dozen trusts and 40 different entities in the Isle of Man. But Stephen Sussman, a defense attorney for the Wylys, told the jury that the brothers relied on an "army of lawyers" to tell them what they were legally required to do and never intended to violate any securities law. "The Wylys acted in complete good faith - the exact opposite of being a liar and fraudster, as charged by the SEC," he said during his opening statement. The trial, which follows years of litigation and investigation of the Wylys by the SEC, is the latest test of the regulator's ability to win verdicts against individuals, following a recent series of losses in fraud and insider trading cases. The jury of eight women and four men will be asked to decide whether the Wylys controlled the securities held in the offshore system, as the government claims, or whether trustees had sole power to sell the stock, as the Wylys contend. In her opening statement to the jury, Fitzpatrick argued that every transaction in the offshore entities originated as a "recommendation" from the Wylys that was effectively a command. "The Isle of Man trustees were not independent," she said. "They did everything the Wylys wanted." Sussman, however, pointed to language in the trust contracts that granted the trustees authority over stock sales. According to the government, the brothers sold more than $750 million of stock in the four companies, while failing to disclose that such transactions had occurred. They used the proceeds to buy everything from jewelry for their wives to a horse ranch in Dallas, Fitzpatrick said. Sussman told the jury he did not dispute that the trades occurred and that they used the profits to buy various items. But, he said, the trusts were created to protect assets and reduce tax liabilities, not to hide anything from the SEC. The trial will feature testimony from several people involved in operating the offshore system, including the Wylys' former lawyer, Michael French. French will appear as a government witness after reaching a deal this month to settle charges against him by paying $794,609 and admitting to aiding in the Wylys' alleged scheme. The 79-year-old Wyly will also take the stand, though his lawyers have indicated he will only testify for up to two hours at a time due to unspecified medical issues. Charles Wyly died in a 2011 car crash. The SEC has also accused the Wylys of earning $31.7 million from insider trading of Sterling Software. The jury will not consider those charges. Once the jury phase is over, U.S. District Judge Shira Scheindlin will preside over a second proceeding on the insider trading claims. The trial comes after several recent upsets for the SEC in other fraud and insider trading cases, most prominently in October when a jury cleared Mark Cuban, owner of the Dallas Mavericks basketball team, of insider trading. The case is SEC v. Wyly et al, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York, No. 10-05760. (Reporting by Joseph Ax; Additional reporting by Nate Raymond; Editing by Noeleen Walder and Steve Orlofsky) FREE AppDownload
David McNew/Getty ImagesJeff Bezos, founder of Amazon.com will take stage at Business Insider's flagship event, IGNITION: Future of Digital, on December 1-3, in New York City.  If there’s a corner of the digital landscape Bezos and Amazon haven’t touched, we don’t know it. E-commerce, for sure: Amazon sells more than the next dozen competitors combined. A big chunk of that is digital books, music, and media of all kinds--along with streaming movies and original TV shows. Amazon Web Services continues to reinvent the cloud. Amazon’s ad revenues are closing in on $1 billion a year. Last fall, Bezos splashed out $250 million to buy the Washington Post. And for good measure this week, he went after the biggest media game of all--television. Say hello to Amazon Fire TV. Chances to see Bezos in a wide-ranging conversation are rarer than with anyone else in the digital world today. He’s a busy guy. We are very grateful he's joining us.Jeff Bezos live on-stage with BI Editor-In-Chief Henry Blodget is one great reason to head over now to the IGNITION 2014 web site and take advantage of early-bird pricing. We’re rolling out the rest of the lineup over the coming months, assembling a unique array of New York stars with the biggest names of Silicon Valley and beyond. Look forward to seeing you there.  Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through hispersonal investment company Bezos Expeditions. FREE AppDownload
Cities are the future of the world. Over half the world's population lives in cities, and by the middle of the century more than seven in 10 people will live in cities, according to the United Nations. Almost all this urban growth will take place in emerging economies. This map from Citi Research shows the location and size of major cities around the world and the share of population in each country living in cities, based on U.N. data: Citi Research Asia — especially China and India — has a huge number of cities, but their populations remain spread out, compared to the more urbanized Western Hemisphere and Europe. The largest megacities — those with more than 10 million residents — are shown in the map as red circles. Below is a list of those largest cities with their approximate 2010 populations, from the UN's 2012/2013 "State of the World's Cities" report (PDF): UN Human Settlements Programme FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Shannon StapletonThe sign marking the MF Global Holdings Ltd. offices at 52nd Street in midtown Manhattan is seen in New York November 2, 2011. By Jonathan Stempel NEW YORK (Reuters) - Former customers of MF Global Holdings Ltd's bankrupt brokerage will recoup all $6.7 billion they are owed following the completion of a payout that will begin on Friday, its trustee said. Nearly 26,500 former commodities and securities customers of the MF Global Inc brokerage will share in the payout, which will be made over the next several weeks, the trustee, James Giddens, said on Thursday. The payout comes nearly 2-1/2 years after the parent company once run by Jon Corzine, who had previously been a co-chairman of Goldman Sachs &lt;GS.N&gt; and governor of New Jersey, filed for Chapter 11 protection. It often takes customers and creditors of bankrupt companies years to recoup all or some of their money. Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc, the Wall Street bank that filed for bankruptcy on September 15, 2008, on Thursday is returning $17.9 billion to creditors, boosting its payout so far to $80.4 billion in five distributions. In November, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn in Manhattan approved a plan to fully repay MF Global Inc customers, including with money once earmarked for unsecured creditors who were not customers. "Checks are going in the mail that will make all public customers of MF Global Inc 100 percent whole," Giddens, a Hughes, Hubbard &amp; Reed partner who leads that firm's corporate reorganization and bankruptcy group, said in a statement. Some of the money going to former customers has come from settlements with onetime MF Global counterparties JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co &lt;JPM.N&gt; and CME Group Inc &lt;CME.O&gt;. Additional funds may be received from a British unit, MF Global UK Ltd, Giddens said. Giddens said 24,020 former U.S. commodities futures and options customers would recover $5.4 billion. He said another $880 million would go to 2,047 former foreign commodities futures and options customers, and $376 million would be returned to 428 former securities customers. MF Global collapsed amid worries about a $6.3 billion bet by Corzine on European sovereign debt and that money from customer accounts had been used to cover liquidity shortfalls. Corzine and other former MF Global officials remain subject to other lawsuits by investors, customers and regulators. The cases are In re: MF Global Inc, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York, No. 11-02790; and In re: MF Global Holdings Ltd in the same court, No. 11-15059. (Reporting by Jonathan Stempel in New York; Additional reporting by Tom Hals in Wilmington, Delaware; Editing by Lisa Von Ahn) FREE AppDownload
Joe Camporeale-USA TODAY Sports/ReutersThe S&amp;P 500 is down a modest 4 points, or around 0.2%. But that belies the bludgeoning of the high-beta / momentum / growth stocks. This is better represented by the Nasdaq, which is down by 0.9%." Leading the way down are the biotech stocks again. The iShares Biotechnology Index (IBB) is down 3%. The IBB is now down 15% from its highs of earlier this year. "All I'll say is that you'd think investors would've learned from the Tech bubble and housing bubble, but I guess they were just dying to touch the hot stove once again. now they're getting burned," said Rich Bernstein in a recent email to Business Insider. Other big losers: The good news for diversified investors is that the whole stock market isn't selling off. Market strategist Ed Yardeni has characterized this as an "internal correction," with investors moving from smaller momentum stocks to more stable large-cap stocks. In this environment, Deutsche Bank's David Bianco recommends over-weighting mega-cap Tech and Banks. "Investor confidence in the likelihood of the much stronger growth needed to support valuations, especially at small caps and S&amp;P 500 non mega-caps, is fading," said Bianco. "But this view is being replaced by the view that long-term interest rates stay well below historical norms for a long time. Thus, investors are shifting to larger and more mature businesses whose generally steady-state PEs should benefit from a lower cost of capital than used historically." FREE AppDownload
Spencer Platt/Getty ImagesMoney manager Jeremy Grantham says the S&amp;P 500 is 75% overvalued. This is nothing new. He said stocks were 40% overvalued in 2011 and was sounding the overvalued alarm in late 2009, when the index traded at half its current value. He was bearish most of last decade, too. Grantham has been mocked as a perma-bear. This is unfair — he was bullish in early 2009, when stocks bottomed — but understandable given his near-constant warning of caution (his latest worry is a global food shortage). Where does Grantham's pessimistic demeanor come from? This quote, from Maggie Mahar's book Bull!, might help explain: In 1968, a self-described "gun-slinging nitwit," fresh out of Harvard Business School, Grantham played the go-go market at its peak. By 1970, he had lost all of his money. "I like to say I got wiped out before anyone else knew the bear market started," Grantham recalled years later. Think about that. The man who today relentlessly warns of risk began his investing career by losing all of his money and then sitting through a 12-year bear market. What lasting impact did this have on his outlook? How did this experience influence his opinion of markets today? Likely, a lot. People like to assume they can think objectively. But you and I are just a product of the experiences we've had in life. And most of those experiences were random and out of our control. Would Grantham hold his bearish stance if, by luck, he began his investing career at the start of a bull market? Or doubled his money his first year out of college, rather than losing it all? There's evidence to suggest the answer is "no." In 2006, Ulrike Malmendier of U.C. Berkeley and Stefan Nagel of Stanford University looked at how various cohorts of Americans differed in their views about investing. Controlling for age, wealth, income, and other social factors, how the economy performed during people's young-adult years had a profound impact on how they invested later in life. Those who grew up during the Great Depression were half as likely to invest in stocks as adults compared with those raised during the roaring 1960s. Those who grew up during the inflationary 1970s were less likely to invest in bonds later in life than those raised during the stable 1950s. Growing up during the prosperous 1980s made you highly likely to favor stocks during the 1990s. "Our findings suggest that individual investors' willingness to bear financial risk depends on personal history," the authors wrote. This seems obvious, but there's an important takeaway: One person's view of risk can be completely different than someone else's. And not because one person is smarter or has better insight than another, but simply because they were born in a different year. Of course, living through something like the Great Depression could make you wiser. You've experienced something younger generations haven't. But that doesn't necessarily make you better at managing risk. It could just as likely make you dangerously too conservative in the future. Emotional experiences also have a downside: Memories are often distorted, so much so that some of what we remember never actually occurred. For decades, psychologists have interviewed people who had an emotional experience, sprinkled in some fake prompts, and watched their memories fool them on the spot. In one famous example, Lawrence Patihis of U.C. Irvine discussed 9/11 with a group of research subjects, and found that, when prompted, many could vividly describe seeing video of Flight 93 crash into a field in Pennsylvania (this video, of course, doesn't exist). "It just seemed like something was falling out of the sky," one participant said. "I was just, you know, kind of stunned by watching it go down." They weren't lying.  This is a common flaw when recalling emotional experiences, as we try to forget painful memories and replace them with pleasant thoughts. In his book Omaha Beach, Joseph Balkoski writes that, "one firm lesson that serious World War II researchers have learned is that the reliability of human memory varies drastically from one veteran to the next." Veterans recalled experiences historians could verify were inaccurate. Time, Balkoski writes, "can play subtle tricks on the mind, and the historian's thorniest problem is to separate those rare fully substantiated accounts from the more typical yarns that time has established." Psychologist Daniel Kahneman calls this the "experiencing self" and the "remembering self." They can be two completely different minds. If someone's view of risk is influenced by what year they were born, and people's memories of emotional events may not even be accurate, there's an obvious lesson: When seeking advice, you should consult a variety of different people of different ages and backgrounds who have experienced different things in life.  This isn't a substitute for skill. But if you get all of your investment advice from 50-year-old white guys, you will get opinions from people whose worldview is colored by similar experiences. And those experiences may be incomplete, not relevant to today's world, and biased in thinking the future will resemble their specific past. A common trait you'll see among the world's best investors is an open and flexible mind. They are happy to hear diverse opinions from people of all different ages and backgrounds. This isn't because they're nice, but because they understand everyone is biased to their own experiences, and that no group has a monopoly on wisdom. Think about the last five years, when lots of angry old men were hyperventilating about looming hyperinflation and the coming collapse of the dollar, while a bunch of college kids who were "ignorant of history" were busy building billion-dollar tech companies. Not being constrained by past experiences can be incredibly valuable. FREE AppDownload
    Juicing is an expensive habit whether you buy your green juice at the store or make it at home. We compare the economics of these two options to determine the most cost-effective way to juice.   FREE AppDownload
APBarnes and Noble shares are down nearly 14% after Liberty Media Corp., which bought a 17% "lifeline" stake in the firm, announced it was selling 90% those shares to institutional buyers, the AP reported.  It's also giving up two board seats. The bookseller said sales of its Nook reader fell 50% in fiscal Q3. Shares were trading at $19.05.   FREE AppDownload
With the economy continuing to improve, investors have to increasingly think about the prospect of tighter monetary policy in the form of rising interest rates. Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen has suggested the first Fed rate hike could come in mid-2015. Higher interest rates mean higher borrowing costs, but rates tend to rise when the economy is improving, which means high sales for companies. So, the risks for investors are not one-sided. For some guidance, Guggenheim Partners' Scott Minerd looks to history. "During the 12 months before a Fed tightening cycle begins -- a period we could now be entering — U.S. equities have typically outperformed fixed income by a wide margin," noted Minerd. "In the last five periods leading up to Fed tightening, the S&amp;P 500 has gained 22 percent on average in the year before the Fed began raising rates, compared to 4.2 percent or less for fixed-income assets." Minerd compares the performance of the S&amp;P 500 with for fixed income classes. Guggenheim Partners FREE AppDownload
PIMCOFrom Bill Gross' letter.By Jennifer Ablan (Reuters) - Bill Gross, co-founder of bond fund giant Pimco and widely known as the "Bond King," has had a rough start to the year. He's still dealing with the waves caused by a public falling-out with former heir-apparent Mohamed El-Erian, while in March the flagship Pimco Total Return Fund suffered an 11th straight month of outflows and its performance lagged 95 percent of its peers. Now Gross's cat, Bob, has died. On Thursday, Gross dedicated the first half of his widely followed Investment Outlook letter to the cat and headlined it "Bob." "Treasure your pets and all living things. Eventually we all stop living," said Gross, who will celebrate his 70th birthday this month. The cat, a female despite the name, died last week. The pet had been with Gross and his wife for 14 years. "Aside from sleeping, Bob loved nothing more than to follow me from room to room making sure I was OK," wrote Gross. "It got to be a little much at times, especially when entering and exiting the shower." Gross said Bob's "obsession carried over to the TV, sensing when I was on CNBC and paying apt attention no less. I often asked her about her recommendations for pet food stocks, and she frequently responded - one meow for 'no,' two meows for a 'you bet.' She was less certain about interest rates, but then it never hurt to ask." Gross, who included in the letter an old photo of Bob watching Gross on TV, has canceled two planned CNBC appearances in March, according to the station. (Reporting By Jennifer Ablan; Editing by Martin Howell) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueFederal Reserve Board of Governors member Jeremy Stein listens during an open board meeting at the Federal Reserve in Washington December 14, 2012.  This is interesting. Jeremy Stein — one of the big advocates on the Fed board that the Fed should prevent bubbles and pursue financial stability — is resigning. Here's his resignation letter. FED FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jim YoungBrokerage Schwab just put out this statement blasting High-Frequency trading, calling it a "growing cancer." (Via Barry Ritholtz) Check it out. ------------------------------- SAN FRANCISCO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Charles Schwab Corporation Chairman Charles Schwab and President and CEO Walt Bettinger posted the following statement on high-frequency trading at: http://www.aboutschwab.com/press/issues/ High-frequency trading is a growing cancer that needs to be addressed Schwab serves millions of investors and has been observing the development of high-frequency trading practices over the last few years with great concern. As we noted in an opinion piece in the Wall Street Journal last summer, high-frequency trading has run amok and is corrupting our capital market system by creating an unleveled playing field for individual investors and driving the wrong incentives for our commodity and equities exchanges. The primary principle behind our markets has always been that no one should carry an unfair advantage. That simple but fundamental principle is being broken. High-frequency traders are gaming the system, reaping billions in the process and undermining investor confidence in the fairness of the markets. It’s a growing cancer and needs to be addressed. If confidence erodes further, the fuel of our free-enterprise system, capital formation, is at risk. We can’t allow that to happen. For sure, we still believe investing in equities is a primary path to long-term wealth creation, and we believe in the long-term structural integrity of the markets to deliver that over time for individual investors, which is all the more reason to be vigilant in removing anything that creates unfair advantage or undermines investor confidence. On March 18, New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman announced his intention to “continue to shine a light on unseemly practices in the markets,” referring to the practices of high-frequency trading and the support they receive from other parties including the commodities and equities exchanges. He has been a consistent watchdog on this matter. We applaud his effort and encourage the SEC to raise the urgency on the issue and do all they can to stop this infection in our capital markets. Investors are being harmed, and they shouldn’t have to wait any longer. As Michael Lewis shows in his new book Flash Boys, the high-frequency trading cancer is deep. It has become systematic and institutionalized, with the exchanges supporting it through practices such as preferential data feeds and developing multiple order types designed to benefit high-frequency traders. These traders have become the exchanges favored clients; today they generate the majority of transactions, which create market data revenue and other fees. Data last year from the Financial Information Forum showed this is no minor blip. High-frequency trading pumped out over 300,000 trade inquiries each second last year, up from just 50,000 only seven years early. Yet actual trade volume on the exchanges has remained relatively flat over that period. It’s an explosion of head-fake ephemeral orders – not to lock in real trades, but to skim pennies off the public markets by the billions. Trade orders from individual investors are now pawns in a bigger chess game. The United States capital markets have been the envy of the world in creating a vibrant, stable and fair system supported by broad public participation for decades. Technology has been a central part of that positive story, especially in the last 30 years, with considerable benefit to the individual investor. But today, manipulative high-frequency trading takes advantage of these technological advances with a growing number of complex institutional order types, enabling practitioners to gain millisecond time advantages and cut ahead in line in front of traditional orders and with access to market data not available to other market participants. High-frequency trading isn’t providing more efficient, liquid markets; it is a technological arms race designed to pick the pockets of legitimate market participants. That flies in the face of our markets’ founding principles. Historically, regulation has sought to protect investors by giving their orders priority over professional orders. In racing to accommodate and attract high-frequency trading business to their markets, the exchanges have turned this principle on its head. Through special order types, enhanced data feeds and co-location, professionals are given special access and entitlements to jump ahead of investor orders. Last year, more than 95 percent of high-frequency trader orders were cancelled, suggesting something else besides trading is at the heart of the strategy. Some high-frequency traders have claimed to be profitable on over 99 percent of their trading days. Our understanding of statistics tells us this isn’t possible without some built in advantage. Instead of leveling the playing field, the exchanges have tilted it against investors. Here are examples of the practices that should concern us all: There are solutions. Today there is no restriction to pumping out millions of orders in a matter of seconds, only to reverse the majority of them. It’s the life-blood of high-frequency trading. A simple solution would be to establish cancellation fees to discourage the practice of quote stuffing. The SEC and CFTC floated the idea last year. It has great merit. Make the fees high enough and they will eliminate high-frequency trading entirely. But if the practice is simply a scam, as we believe it is, an even better solution is to simply make it illegal. And exchanges should be neutral in the market. They should stop the practice of selling preferential access or data feeds and eliminate order types that allow high-frequency traders to jump ahead of legitimate order flow. These are all simply tools for scamming individual investors. The integrity of the markets is at the heart of our economy. High-frequency trading undermines that integrity and causes the market to lose credibility and investors to lose trust. This hurts our economy and country. It is time to treat the cancer aggressively. Charles Schwab, Founder and ChairmanWalt Bettinger, President and CEO About Charles Schwab The Charles Schwab Corporation (NYSE:SCHW) is a leading provider of financial services, with more than 325 offices and 9.1 million active brokerage accounts, 1.3 million corporate retirement plan participants, 928,000 banking accounts, and $2.29 trillion in client assets as of February 28, 2014. Through its operating subsidiaries, the company provides a full range of securities brokerage, banking, money management and financial advisory services to individual investors and independent investment advisors. Its broker-dealer subsidiary, Charles Schwab &amp; Co., Inc. (member SIPC, www.sipc.org), and affiliates offer a complete range of investment services and products including an extensive selection of mutual funds; financial planning and investment advice; retirement plan and equity compensation plan services; referrals to independent fee-based investment advisors; and custodial, operational and trading support for independent, fee-based investment advisors through Schwab Advisor Services. Its banking subsidiary, Charles Schwab Bank (member FDIC and an Equal Housing Lender), provides banking and lending services and products. More information is available at www.schwab.com and www.aboutschwab.com.     - See more at: http://pressroom.aboutschwab.com/press-release/corporate-and-financial-news/schwab-statement-high-frequency-trading#sthash.lQW3MpfS.UEXmLhun.dpuf FREE AppDownload
Sullivan's CoveSullivans Cove Whisky Scotland and Japan are known for producing the world’s finest scotch, with distilleries in those two countries consistently earning the title of “world’s best” at the annual World Whisky Awards. In 2014, however, a relatively new distillery from the Australian island state of Tasmania has managed to unseat the reigning whisky champions. Believe it or not, for the first time ever, the world’s highest-ranked single malt is Tasmanian. The World Whisky Awards are hosted by the U.K.’s Whisky Magazine, considered the definitive publication for enthusiasts of the popular spirit. This year’s top honor was presented to Sullivans Cove distillery in Tasmania for its French oak cask-matured single malt. The 20-year-old distillery is being lauded by whiskey lovers across the globe, especially considering that distilling was prohibited in Australia as recently as 22 years ago. Sullivans Cove over and distiller Patrick Maguire hopes that his single malt’s big win will draw attention to the island’s burgeoning whisky market. “Tasmania is now is becoming recognized as one of the better whisky producing countries or areas, so it is a pretty major thing,” he told ABC. “We are all very small producers, we are boutique producers and we have the luxury of being able to tweak things personally. So when we are running the still, they are not automatic systems – we actually run it from the heart, if you like.” Maguire added that the operation produces only 20,000 liters of whisky a year. His quest for quality over quantity had made it difficult to meet domestic demand – let alone an increasing number of inquiries from around the globe. “We’re growing, but we’ll never be a giant distillery,” he said. The popularity of local distilleries has already led to the formation of a Tasmanian Whisky Trail, which runs from Burnie in the north to Hobart in the south and includes visitor centers and tasting bars. The local whisky drinking scene has also undergone some significant changes in recent years. “Years ago it was seen as an old man’s drink but our demographic is changing rapidly, it’s now the 25- to 45-year-old age group and a lot of those are women, as well,” said Maguire. For those wanting a taste of the world’s best single malt, expect to pay a premium price for a premium whisky. Pre-orders for a 700 ml bottle of a spirit similar to the winner start at 100 pounds ($166). Only three bottles of the winning batch 525 remain and are expected to fetch well over $1,000 each. FREE AppDownload
ISMISM non-manufacturing sub-components.The results of the Institute for Supply Management's monthly survey of purchasing managers at U.S. non-manufacturing firms are out. The survey's headline Purchasing Managers Index (PMI) rose to 53.1 in March from February's 51.6 reading — indicative of an acceleration in the pace of expansion in America's services sector — but failed to meet Wall Street's consensus forecast for a larger advance to 53.5. The employment sub-index rose to 53.6 from February's 47.5 reading, marking the biggest gain on record for the series as companies returned to hiring after last month's reduction in headcount. Index readings below 50 indicate varying degrees of contraction whereas readings above 50 indicate varying degrees of expansion. A 50 reading is neutral, implying no change from the previous month. 25% of survey respondents reported an increase in headcount in March relative to February, while 61% said employment was unchanged and 14% reported a reduction in headcount. "Overall, we expect the stronger tone of ISM employment data to augur positively for Friday’s nonfarm payroll report," says Gennadiy Goldberg, a U.S. strategist at TD Securities. The ISM non-manufacturing employment sub-index is closely watched by traders because service industries account for around 80% of hiring in America, and economists use the number as an input into their forecasts for the official jobs report, which will be released by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics tomorrow. Below is what respondents to the survey are saying, from ISM's release: The results of a similar but less widely-tracked survey released by Markit this morning suggested American services-sector expansion decelerated slightly in March. Markit's services PMI fell to 55.3 from February's 55.5 reading. The employment sub-component index ticked down to 51.8 from 51.9. "Service-sector business activity rebounded in March after being hit by the adverse weather, and companies have grown more upbeat about the outlook," said Chris Williamson, chief economist at Markit, in a press release detailing the results of the survey. "But hiring remained disappointingly subdued, suggesting firms are reluctant to expand capacity until they see firm evidence of stronger demand feeding through to their businesses." FREE AppDownload
Fox BusinessCharlie GasparinoFox Business Network's senior correspondent, Charlie Gasparino, shredded author Michael Lewis in an op-ed in the New York Post.  This week Lewis released his newest book, "Flash Boys," which claims the markets are rigged because of high-frequency trading (HFT).  Gasparino called Lewis' new book "completely and utterly disingenuous" and said that it has a "lefty interpretation" of the 2008 financial crisis.  Gasparino writes that Lewis is "blowing smoke" and that his claim about HFT hurting the mom-and-pop retail investors is all wrong. This was the best excerpt:  What Lewis doesn’t tell anyone (and what Steve Kroft in his “60 Minutes” interview wasn’t smart enough to ask) is how this hurts the small investor. Because it doesn’t. This isn’t traders vs. the little guy, it’s “Alien vs. Predator” — one set of financial insiders outsmarting another bunch. The guy who buys Apple on an online-brokerage account gets the price he sees on his screen; that’s how the E*trades of the world fill orders. And if you have a mutual fund, your money manager should be smart enough to figure out (as many have) how not to be gamed by the HFT guys. Read the full op-ed at the NYPost »   FREE AppDownload
Famed short-seller Jim Chanos, the founder of Kynikos Associates, recommended shorting Sotheby's on CNBC's "Squawk Box" this morning. He also shared this chart about how the auction house's stock price tracks bubbles:   Check out Sotheby's stock price over the years $BID via Jim Chanos pic.twitter.com/IeOHKNQbXF Activist investors Daniel Loeb (Third Point) and Mick McGuire (Marcato) are long the stock and hold massive positions.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kai PfaffenbachA man uses his mobile phone to take a picture of the euro sculpture outside the head quarters of the European Central Bank (ECB) in Frankfurt, November 5, 2013. The ECB council will on Thursday and will decide whether they change the interest rates or not. At its April meeting, the European Central Bank elected to leave the benchmark euro area refinancing rate unchanged at 0.25%, as expected. The rate on the ECB's marginal lending facility was unchanged at 0.75%, and the deposit facility rate was left at 0%. At his monthly press conference following the decision, ECB President Mario Draghi failed to announce any additional unconventional stimulus measures. He did say, however, that the ECB Governing Council was unanimous on deploying unconventional tools if needed, but also that it had not yet exhausted conventional measures. One of the tools discussed at the April meeting, according to Draghi, was quantitative easing (QE). "There was a discussion of QE," he said. "It was not neglected over the course of what was actually a very rich and ample discussion." The euro is lower against the U.S. dollar, trading around $1.3720. Only three of the 57 economists polled by Bloomberg expected a rate cut at today's meeting. On Monday, Eurostat published its initial estimate of euro area-wide consumer price inflation in the month of March — up 0.5% from a year earlier, down from February's 0.7% year-over-year change and below consensus estimates for a smaller deceleration to 0.6% year over year. Draghi addressed the low reading, ascribing the drop to the timing of Easter, but admitting it was a "genuine surprise." Last year, the holiday fell in March, so services prices — especially travel prices — were higher. This year, it is in April, so inflation may bounce back this month. Moreover, he stressed that inflation expectations — a key measure for the ECB — remain firmly anchored in the medium term. "The ECB could easily have justified doing a lot more already," says Greg Fuzesi, an economist at JPMorgan Chase. "That it has not done so, in our view, reflects the constraint it faces from a lack of tools it considers appropriate and impactful. Its hope is that the monetary policy transmission improves over time (especially with the AQR and stress tests) and that growth holds up, even as low inflation and a surprisingly strong currency are raising the pressure to act. Our forecast that the ECB stays on hold this week (and beyond) is therefore uncomfortable, and we note that the threshold for action remains very hard to gauge. Essentially, we are assuming that core inflation remains stable and that growth gradually picks up further and that this persuades the ECB to remain patient." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Svitzer/HandoutThe U.S. trade deficit widened to $42.3 billion in February from $39.3 billion in January. Economists were expecting the deficit to narrow to $38.5 billion. Exports fell $2.0 billion to $190.4 billion, but imports climbed $1.0 billion to $232.7 billion. "While we expect net trade to be a modest drag on domestic economic activity, the strong performance in consumer goods and auto demand can be seen as a signal of revival in domestic consumer spending activity after the weakness in the previous two months," said TD Securities Millan Mulraine. "Notwithstanding this, the weak performance in export activity, which has declined in two of the last three months suggests that the global environment has largely remained unsupportive to US economic activity." "The core non-oil Deficit ex-aircraft rose $1.2 billion, thanks mostly to an out-of-the-blue 2.1% leap in imports of services, worth $0.8 billion," noted Pantheon Macroeconomics' Ian Shepherdson. "This appearsto reflect the payment of fees for broadcast rights to the Winter Olympics, so we expect a reversal in March." Pantheon Macroeconomics From the BEA: Goods (Census Basis) The January to February decrease in exports of goods reflected decreases in industrial supplies and materials ($2.7 billion) and capital goods ($0.9 billion). Increases occurred in consumer goods ($1.2 billion); other goods ($0.6 billion); and automotive vehicles, parts, and engines ($0.1 billion). Foods, feeds, and beverages were virtually unchanged. The January to February decrease in imports of goods reflected decreases in capital goods ($1.2 billion); industrial supplies and materials ($0.3 billion); and foods, feeds, and beverages ($0.1 billion). Increases occurred in automotive vehicles, parts, and engines ($1.0 billion); consumer goods ($0.1 billion); and other goods ($0.1 billion). Exports of goods were virtually unchanged from February 2013 to February 2014. Decreases occurred in industrial supplies and materials ($1.8 billion); automotive vehicles, parts, and engines ($0.2 billion); and other goods ($0.1 billion). Increases occurred in consumer goods ($1.5 billion); capital goods ($0.3 billion); and foods, feeds, and beverages ($0.2 billion). The February 2013 to February 2014 decrease in imports of goods reflected decreases in industrial supplies and materials ($0.9 billion) and consumer goods ($0.9 billion). Increases occurred in automotive vehicles, parts, and engines ($0.9 billion); capital goods ($0.4 billion); and other goods ($0.1 billion). Foods, feeds, and beverages were virtually unchanged.Services Exports of services were virtually unchanged from January to February.  Increases in other private services ($0.1 billion), which includes items such as business, professional, and technical services, insurance services, and financial services, and in royalties and license fees ($0.1 billion) were mostly offset by a decrease in passenger fares ($0.2 billion).  Changes in the other categories of services exports were relatively small. Imports of services increased $0.8 billion from January to February.  The increase was mainly accounted for by an increase in royalties and license fees ($0.8 billion), which included payments for the rights to broadcast the 2014 Winter Olympic Games.  Other private services increased ($0.1 billion).  Partly offsetting these increases was a decrease in other transportation ($0.1 billion), which includes freight and port services.  Changes in the other categories of services imports were relatively small. The February 2013 to February 2014 increase in exports of services was $3.0 billion or 5.5 percent. The largest increases were in other private services ($1.7 billion), in travel ($0.8 billion), and in royalties and license fees ($0.6 billion).  Within other private services, the largest increase was in business, professional, and technical services. The February 2013 to February 2014 increase in imports of services was $2.5 billion or 6.7 percent. The largest increases were in other private services ($1.4 billion), in royalties and license fees ($0.8 billion), and in travel ($0.3 billion).  Within other private services, the largest increase was in business, professional, and technical services.  The increase in royalties and license fees was mostly accounted for by payments for the rights to broadcast the 2014 Winter Olympic Games. FREE AppDownload
St. Louis FedInitial jobless claims filed in the week ended March 29 were 326,000, according to the latest data from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, up from 310,000 in the previous week and above the consensus Wall Street forecast of 319,000. Continuing claims for unemployment insurance filed in the week ended March 22 were 2.836 million, up from a downwardly-revised 2.814 million the week before but below the consensus forecast of 2.843 million. "The key question now is whether the run of relatively low numbers marks the new trend or was just a temporary diversion," says Ian Shepherdson, chief economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics. "We are inclined to think that the trend probably is falling, but quite slowly. Either way, expect volatility over the next few weeks as a result of the shifting timing of the Easter holiday from year to year, which causes problems for the seasonal adjustment process. The real trend will be clearer next month." Click here for the full release » FREE AppDownload
loiclemeurBeginning April 3, Google will carry out its plan to “create a new class of non-voting capital stock, which will be listed on NASDAQ." "These shares will be distributed via a stock dividend to all existing stockholders: the owner of each existing share will receive one new share of the non-voting stock, giving investors twice the number of shares they had before." “It’s effectively a two-for-one stock split-something many of our investors have long asked us for. These non-voting shares will be available for corporate uses, like equity-based employee compensation, that might otherwise dilute our governance structure.” If this split seems a little funky to you, you’re not alone. Investors and the media have both gone nuts with everything from misinterpretations to outright disagreement with the plan. Here’s why: the split will solidify the voting authority of founders Sergey Brin and Larry Page and former CEO and current Chairman Eric Schmidt, and people disagree about whether this is a good thing. Brin, Page, and Schmidt have long held a controlling or near-controlling share of voting power at Google, a luxury granted to them by a dual-class stock architecture. The three own Class B shares, which wield 10 times the voting power of class A stock, which is what traded on the public markets until April 3 under the ticker GOOG. Post-split, these shares will trade under the ticker GOOGL, while the new, non-voting Class C stock will take over the GOOG ticker. Google’s founders were careful to explain and argue in favor of the dual-class scheme in 2004, as the company was preparing to go public. “We are creating a corporate structure that is designed for stability over long time horizons,” Brin and Page wrote in an open letter to prospective shareholders in 2004. “By investing in Google, you are placing an unusual long term bet on the team, especially Sergey and me, and on our innovative approach.” The deal was this: Google wanted to open its doors to all of the benefits of public ownership without jeopardizing the authority of its core principals — Brin, Page, Schmidt, and a handful of other key executives and directors — over the company’s direction and strategy. “After the IPO,” Page wrote, “Sergey, Eric and I will control 37.6 percent of the voting power of Google, and the executive management team and directors as a group will control 61.4 percent of the voting power. New investors will fully share in Google’s long-term economic future, but will have little ability to influence its strategic decisions through their voting rights.”  The stock split will, ostensibly, do little to change the power structure at Google, and serve primarily to preserve the voting power of those currently in charge. The voting authority of Google’s principals has been diluted through years of stock-based compensation and acquisitions. If the company’s leadership didn’t do something — like issue non-voting stock — their grip over the company would gradually loosen. This may sound like a somewhat contrived way for executives to maintain control of the company, and it kind of is, but this is fine. A bet on Google has always been a bet on Brin, Page, and Schmidt. They’ve argued that from from the beginning, and it’s worked out well so far. The stock split is a mechanism to preserve what’s worked for years at one of the world’s greatest Internet and technology companies. FREE AppDownload
At $45,000 a night, the Ty Warner Penthouse in the Four Seasons Hotel in New York City is the most expensive hotel room in North America. So, what do you get for this (non-negotiable) price? For starters, you're 700 feet above Manhattan and have a one-of-a-kind 360-degree view of the city. You also get a personal butler who will tend to your every need, a chauffeur who will drive you anywhere in a Rolls Royce, and a $65,000 bed with 22-karat gold woven throughout the bedspread. Take our tour of the Ty Warner Penthouse to see why it's one of the most expensive hotel rooms in the world. Produced by Will Wei. Additional Camera by Justin Gmoser. Follow BI VIDEO: On Facebook
CNBCDave LutzStifel Nicolaus's Dave Lutz has a summary of what traders are talking about right now. Good Morning!   US Futures are marked slightly higher, but many feel we are in a holding pattern until the NFP number tomorrow.  As a reminder, we have rallied on the last 11 consecutive employment sessions.   Markets in EU are mixed, with players awaiting the ECB decision at 7:45 (52 of 55 economists polled expect no change), followed by a presser from Draghi at 8:30.   Germany’s DAX has consistently traded on light volume this week, and today is no exception – volumes off 30% from recent averages.   Rhetoric is heating up in Ukraine, pressing Russia’s market in the red – but most overseas focus was on China, where Beijing unveiled a mini-stimulus – well anticipated, as the Hang Seng has jumped more than 7% since March 20th, and Copper is off small.   In EM, emerging-market equities snapped a nine-day rally – but watch Brazil, as they hiked rates overnight to 11%.   The $/Yen breaking towards 104 was a tailwind for Japanese equities, with the Nikkei adding 1%, and futures indicating a further bounce right now.   The 10YY in the US continues to fail upside of 2.8%, after breaking north of the 100dma yesterday.   The DXY is gapping higher, as the € is breaking down into the ECB decision.   The $’s strength is a headwind for commodity prices, and we are seeing metals weaker, led by a 1.3% drop in Silver.   Energy commodities are weak as well, as Brent breaks to 5M lows as Libya nears a deal to restart exports.   Keep an eye on Natty gas into inventory data today.   Other Catalysts scheduled today include Challenger Job Cuts at 7:30, ECB Announces Interest Rates at 7:45, at 8:30 we get the Draghi Pressser – weekly jobless claims data – and the US trade balance.  At 9:45 we get US Services PMI from Markit, and the official Services reading from ISM at 10.  10:30 brings us Natty Inventory data, and we have a small POMO at 11. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Francisco Alcayaga MottaFishermen try to salvage their boats in the aftermath of an earthquake and tsunami that hit the northern port of Iquique, April 2, 2014.Good morning! Here's what you need to know. ECB decision. The European Central Bank will announce the outcome of its latest policy meeting at 7:45 a.m. Expectations are for no change to rates. "Many believe persistent low inflation will force the ECB to ease further this year, but only three of the 57 economists polled by Bloomberg expect such an announcement to come out of Thursday's meeting," reported BI's Matthew Boesler. China stimulus. China has unveiled what's being called a "mini-stimulus" to boost consumption. Its scope remains limited. It includes "additional spending on railways, upgraded housing for low-income households and tax relief for struggling small businesses," WSJ says. Euro zone's strong quarter. Theeuro zone's Markit PMI fell slightly to 53.1 from 53.3, but businesses nevertheless logged its busiest quarter in three years. However, they did so mostly by slashing prices, "underscoring fears that deflation may soon afflict the region."   Three dead in Ft. Hood shooting. Five years after 13 people were killed at Ft. Hood in Texas in a mass shooting incident, an army specialist opened fire at the same military post, killing three before taking his own life. "The gunman, who served in Iraq for four months in 2011, had been undergoing an assessment before the attack to determine if he had post-traumatic stress disorder," the AP reported. "Cuban Twitter" was U.S. project. The U.S. covertly built a Twitter-like social network in Cuba to help foment unrest, the AP reports. "The project, which lasted more than two years and drew tens of thousands of subscribers, sought to evade Cuba's stranglehold on the Internet with a primitive social media platform. First, the network would build a Cuban audience, mostly young people; then, the plan was to push them toward dissent." Food prices soaring. Global food prices hit their highest level in almost a year in March, climbing 2.3% MOM. The surge was caused by severe weather and geopolitical tensions, the UN said. Markets. Stocks in Asia were mostly higher, led by the Nikkei at 0.8%; while in Europe they were mostly lower. U.S. futures were up. The euro was going nowhere. Bitcoin fell to $440.  Jobless claims. Weekly jobless claims hit at 8:30 a.m. Expectations are for a slight uptick from last week's 311,000 figure. Trade. Also at 8:30 a.m. we get U.S. trade data. Expectations are for the trade deficit to narrow to $38.8 billion from $39.1 billion prior. Services and ISM data. At 9:45 a.m. we get PMI services data from Markit. It's expected to be up slightly from the prior reading of 53.3. And at 10 a.m. we get the Institute for Supply Management's survey of non-manufacturing sectors. Expectations are for a gain of nearly 2 points from last month's 51.6 reading. "The ISM non-manufacturing headline index declined in February as the business activity and employment indexes fell," said Nomura economists. "However, the more optimistic reading on business activity in the Northeast Region implied by the New York Fed’s business leaders’ survey suggests that we could see an increase in the ISM non-manufacturing index in March." FREE AppDownload
Asset bubbles are notoriously difficult to identify as they are happening. Often times, they only become clear in hindsight. Having said that, Goldman Sachs' David Kostin offers an interesting stock market chart in his team's new US Quarterly Chartbook. It shows the sector composition of the S&amp;P 500 by market cap since 1974. As you can see, sector bubbles manifest when they suddenly explode as a percentage of the S&amp;P 500. The dotcom bubble is very prominent, represented by the ballooning info tech sector stocks. The credit bubble appeared much more gradually as seen in the rise of financial sector stocks. "Financials was only the third sector since 1975 to represent 20% of the market capitalization of the S&amp;P 500," noted Kostin. "However, Financials share of the S&amp;P 500 market cap has declined from 22% to as low as 9% in early March 2009." Goldman Sachs FREE AppDownload
Markit"Russian PMI data for the first quarter of 2014 signalled the worst business conditions for manufacturers and service providers since mid-2009," noted Markit economist Trevor Balchin. Markit's Composite Purchasing Managers' Index (PMI) for Russia fell to 47.8 in March, the lowest level since May 2009. Any reading below 50 signals contraction in economic activity. "The PMI data are consistent with a quarter-on-quarter decline in GDP of 0.4% in the first quarter (and zero annual growth)," added Balchin. "Moreover, forward-looking indicators from the surveys have also deteriorated sharply, so a technical recession in the first half of the year looks a distinct possibility." Survey respondents said the tumbling rouble had been adding to their costs, sending input inflation to the highest level in three years.Markit Balchin noted that this is in contrast to neighboring economies like Poland, the Czech Republic, and the eurozone where growth has been picking up. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike TheilerMorgan Stanley Chief Financial Officer Ruth Porat at a Thomson Reuters reception prior to the White House Correspondents' Association Gala, in Washington, April 27, 2013. NEW YORK (Reuters) - Morgan Stanley &lt;MS.N&gt; Chief Financial Officer Ruth Porat on Wednesday called on government and corporate leaders to encourage the promotion of women into senior business roles, saying the number of women in top positions at U.S. corporations is "an embarrassment." Porat, one of the most powerful women on Wall Street, said she supports a law proposed by New York Senator Kirsten Gillibrand that would create national paid family leave, and help women to have children without leaving the workforce. She also encouraged businesses to implement protocols that ensure more women are promoted to senior ranks or given positions on boards of directors. "Although the statistics in the U.S. are meaningfully better than they were 50 years ago and better than in many other markets, they're not where they should be and in fact I would say they are an embarrassment," Porat said at an event held by the Japan Society in Manhattan. Porat's comments come at a time when more women business leaders are speaking out about gender issues in the workplace. That conversation was sparked in part by the publication last year of "Lean In," a book by Facebook Inc &lt;FB.O&gt; Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg, who argued that women need to become more aggressive about advocating for their rights. Porat said she agrees with Sandberg's philosophy, but argued that it is not always possible for women to succeed if laws and corporate structures thwart their efforts. "If a woman 'leans in,' but is leaning against a door that is nailed shut, no amount of leaning will bust down the door," she said. "So I think we must hold our organizations accountable where they control the doors by demanding clarity and transparency around succession planning." Porat started at Morgan Stanley in 1987 as an associate and rose rapidly through the ranks. She ran investment banking businesses and acted as a key adviser to banks and governments during the financial crisis before taking on her current role in 2010. Analysts, recruiters and insiders consider her to be one of a handful of people who could eventually succeed Chief Executive James Gorman. But in 1996, as she was being promoted to head Morgan Stanley's technology investment banking division, Porat said one of her colleagues discovered old documents indicating several men who were reviewing her as a potential job candidate a decade earlier "expressed concern that I just wouldn't have the stamina to make it past the associate level," she said. "They were clearly overruled because I was hired and I clearly proved them wrong," she said. "But what really struck me then and I think of often is that even with strong credentials and what some have called a pretty absurd drive, I didn't represent the image of what they thought of someone who would make it beyond the associate level." Porat said she had what she called "sponsors" who helped her succeed. In an interview with Reuters after the event, she identified former Morgan Stanley investment banker Robert Greenhill, former CEO John Mack and Vikram Pandit, who was a senior Morgan Stanley executive until 2005, among those who advocated for her advancement. Morgan Stanley now requires its business heads to identify minority candidates, including women, who could be promoted as part of succession planning, Porat said. If leaders cannot identify enough diverse candidates to hit certain goals, then they must poach people from other groups internally or hire from the outside to meet those targets, she said. Those targets are set for moral reasons as well as business reasons, Porat said. She cited research showing companies with more women in senior roles or on boards have higher profits and stock prices. Clients also say they want to see more diversity among Morgan Stanley bankers and salespeople, she said. "It's a business imperative," she said. "It enables you to win more in the marketplace." (Editing by Stephen Coates) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Neil HallA woman sunbathes at a fountain at Trafalgar Square in London July 25, 2012.Markets are flat early in the European trading session. Britain's FTSE 100 is up 0.1%. France's CAC 40 is flat. Germany's DAX is flat. Spain's IBEX is up 0.5%. Italy's FTSE MIB is up 0.3%. Later today, the European Central Bank will hold its latest monetary policy meeting.  "Many believe persistent low inflation will force the ECB to ease further this year, but only three of the 57 economists polled by Bloomberg expect such an announcement to come out of Thursday's meeting," noted Business Insider's Matthew Boesler. "However, many forecasters already flagged March as the likely bottom for the inflation rate. One frequently-cited explanation for the drop was the unusual timing of Easter in 2013. It was in March instead of April, which may have temporarily caused year-on-year comparisons to fall in March this year before potentially staging a rebound in April." Earlier today, we learned that the Eurozone's Markit Composite Output PMI slipped to 53.1 in March from 53.3 in February, which signals a slight deceleration in the economy. "The final PMI data for March round off the region’s best quarter for three years, with the survey data signalling that the economy grew by 0.5% compared to the fourth quarter," said Markit's Chris Williamson. “The surveys also confirm that the recovery is broad-based. The upturn is being spearheaded by Germany, which PMI data suggest grew by 0.7% in the first quarter. Spain looks set to have enjoyed its best quarter for six years, growing by 0.5%. Italy meanwhile has enjoyed its best spell of growth for three years, being on course to have expanded by 0.3%. France continues to lag behind, but is nevertheless the biggest news story in March with its PMI hitting a two-and-a-half-year high and suggesting the economy achieved modest growth." FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersEmployee arranges pricetags at vegetables work bench during the opening day of upmarket Italian food hall chain Eataly's flagship store in downtown MilanROME (Reuters) - Global food prices rose to the highest level in almost a year in March, led by unfavorable weather conditions affecting crops and geopolitical tensions in the Black Sea region, the United Nations food agency said on Thursday. The Food and Agriculture Organisation's (FAO) price index, which measures monthly price changes for a basket of cereals, oilseeds, dairy, meat and sugar, averaged 212.8 points in March, up 4.8 points or 2.3 percent from February. The reading was the highest since May 2013. FAO's cereal price index saw the second month of significant increases, rising 5.2 percent to its highest value since August 2013 over unfavorable weather conditions in the south-central United States and Brazil, and uncertainty over grain shipments from Ukraine. (Reporting by Naomi O'Leary; editing by James Mackenzie) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA worker makes technical measurements with robots on the carbon chassis at the serial production BMW i3 electric car in the BMW factory in LeipzigLONDON (Reuters) - Euro zone businesses logged their busiest quarter in three years at the start of 2014 but did so by slashing prices, surveys showed on Thursday, underscoring fears that deflation may soon afflict the region. The European Central Bank is not expected to ease policy any further when it meets later on Thursday. It is instead seen relying on verbal support to allay fears that falling prices in several euro zone countries could spread to the whole bloc. While the recovery from the bloc's deepest economic downturn has been led by Germany, it is becoming more broad-based. Survey compiler Markit said the Composite Purchasing Managers' Index pointed to first-quarter growth of 0.5 percent. If realized, that would beat expectations in a Reuters poll last month for more modest growth of 0.3 percent and mark the fastest pace of growth since early 2011. Markit's Composite PMI, which is widely regarded as a good gauge of growth, dipped to 53.1 in March from February's 32-month high of 53.3, holding above the 50 mark that divides growth from contraction for the ninth month. But that buoyancy has come with lower prices. Even as input costs rose, firms cut charges for the goods and services they sold at a faster rate than in February. The output price subindex fell to a four-month low of 48.8 from 49.3. "The final PMI data for March round off the region's best quarter for three years," said Chris Williamson, chief economist at Markit. "But the concerns will lie with the price data. The weakening price indices will stoke fears that deflationary forces are intensifying amid weak demand and near-record unemployment." Euro zone inflation fell to just 0.5 percent last month, its lowest since November 2009 and well below the ECB's 2 percent target ceiling. The index for the bloc's dominant service industry fell to 52.2 from February's 32-month high of 52.6. Still, service firms were the most optimistic about the year ahead since the middle of 2011. The business expectations index jumped to 64.0 from 62.4. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yves HermanEuropean Central Bank (ECB) President Mario Draghi.The European Central Bank Governing Council will deliberate over whether or not to take additional action to ease monetary policy and announce its decision at 7:45 AM ET. ECB President Mario Draghi will hold his monthly press conference and Q&amp;A to explain the decision at 8:30 AM. Many believe persistent low inflation will force the ECB to ease further this year, but only three of the 57 economists polled by Bloomberg expect such an announcement to come out of Thursday's meeting. On Monday, Eurostat published its initial estimate of euro area-wide consumer price inflation in the month of March — up 0.5% from a year earlier, down from February's 0.7% year-over-year change and below consensus estimates for a smaller deceleration to 0.6% year over year. However, many forecasters already flagged March as the likely bottom for the inflation rate. One frequently-cited explanation for the drop was the unusual timing of Easter in 2013. It was in March instead of April, which may have temporarily caused year-on-year comparisons to fall in March this year before potentially staging a rebound in April. The ECB has been arguing that medium-term inflation expectations remain anchored, so the latest inflation reading may not be enough to spur the central bank into action. "The ECB could easily have justified doing a lot more already," says Greg Fuzesi, an economist at JPMorgan Chase. "That it has not done so, in our view, reflects the constraint it faces from a lack of tools it considers appropriate and impactful. Its hope is that the monetary policy transmission improves over time (especially with the AQR and stress tests) and that growth holds up, even as low inflation and a surprisingly strong currency are raising the pressure to act. Our forecast that the ECB stays on hold this week (and beyond) is therefore uncomfortable, and we note that the threshold for action remains very hard to gauge. Essentially, we are assuming that core inflation remains stable and that growth gradually picks up further and that this persuades the ECB to remain patient." Stay tuned for full coverage of the ECB decision and press conference on Thursday morning. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Arnd WiegmannThe logo of Swiss bank Credit Suisse is seen in front of a branch office in Zurich.ZURICH (Reuters) - Credit Suisse has increased the funds it has set aside to settle a U.S. tax dispute and avoid prosecution for helping wealthy Americans to hide their money from the taxman. Switzerland's second-biggest bank set aside an extra 425 million Swiss francs ($480 million), taking its total provision for tax and securities law matters in the United States to 895 million francs, it said in its annual report on Thursday. A spokesman for the bank declined to comment on whether the increase indicates that it is close to resolving the U.S. tax dispute. Switzerland's private banking model has been rattled to its core by the U.S. crackdown on tax evasion. Credit Suisse rival UBS admitted to helping U.S. taxpayers evade taxes and paid a $780 million fine in 2009. Evidence culled from the UBS probe and thousands of Americans coming forward under a tax amnesty in the United States has fed a second wave of investigation, which has ensnared Credit Suisse and 13 other large Swiss banks. Credit Suisse is under investigation by the U.S. Department of Justice and has been accused by U.S. senators of helping American customers to dodge taxes through a variety of tactics, including the creation of offshore shell entities, falsifying visa applications and establishing a branch at Zurich airport, where wealthy U.S. clients could fly in, conduct their banking and leave. On Thursday the bank said it will reduce previously reported fourth-quarter and 2013 results by 468 million francs after taxes to mainly reflect the U.S. tax deal provision, resulting in a fourth-quarter net loss of 476 million francs. The bank said in its annual report that total litigation provisions had doubled to 2.33 billion francs, compared with 1.16 billion a year earlier. It also said it had paid Chief Executive Brady Dougan 9.8 million francs in 2013, up 26 percent from the previous year. ($1 = 0.8860 Swiss Francs) (Reporting by Caroline Copley and Oliver Hirt; Editing by David Goodman) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA Citibank sign on bank branch in midtown Manhattan in New York(Reuters) - Federal authorities have opened an investigation into a $400 million fraud involving Citigroup's Mexican unit, the New York Times reported, citing people briefed on the matter. Citigroup disclosed in February it had discovered at least $400 million in fraudulent loans in its Mexico subsidiary, Banco Nacional de Mexico, known as Banamex, and said employees may have been in on the crime. The bad loans were made to Mexican oil services company Oceanografia, a contractor for Mexican state-owned oil company Pemex. The investigation, overseen by the FBI and prosecutors from the United States attorney's office in Manhattan, is focusing on whether holes in Citigroup's internal controls contributed to the fraud in Mexico, the New York Times said. (http://link.reuters.com/gat28v) The FBI and prosecutors are questioning whether Citigroup was equal parts victim and enabler, the newspaper said. Reuters reported in February that the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation was aware of Citigroup's loan losses due to fraud by a Mexican company and was monitoring the situation for possible criminal activity. FBI in New York and Preet Bharara, the U.S. attorney in Manhattan, could not immediately be reached for comment outside regular U.S. business hours. Citigroup spokesman Mark Costiglio did not immediately respond to an email seeking comment. Banamex fired two bond traders after uncovering rogue trading last year, two sources close to the matter told Reuters on Tuesday, raising fresh questions over what controls the troubled unit had in place to police employees. (Reporting by Supriya Kurane in Bangalore; Editing by Gopakumar Warrier) FREE AppDownload
China has announced a set of steps to boost slowing growth in the world's number-two economy, including extending tax breaks for small businesses and support measures for poor urban districts. The State Council, China's cabinet, announced the mini stimulus late Wednesday after a meeting chaired by Premier Li Keqiang. Anticipation has been building recently for some kind of action following a string of disappointing economic indicators, including on industrial production and consumer spending. Li said last month that China had set its annual growth target at "around" 7.5 percent, the same level as the goal for last year, after gross domestic product grew an annual 7.7 percent in 2013, the same as in 2012 -- which was the slowest since 1999. "The State Council is responding to the growth slowdown by announcing tax breaks for SMEs (small and medium enterprises), speeding up investment in railways and rebuilding urban shantytowns," HSBC economists Qu Hongbin and Sun Junwei said in a report Thursday. "This time the package is small in scale, but it is more targeted and involves reforms on financing to secure funding," they said. "So this should help China to smooth growth without exacerbating financial stability risks." The tax breaks for "small and micro" companies will be extended until the end of 2016, the State Council said in a statement on the central government website. It also said 6,600 kilometres (4,100 miles) of new railway lines will come into operation this year, 1,000 kilometres more than in 2013. The plan will also see the creation of a railway fund that will receive between 200-300 billion yuan ($32-$48 billion) each year, the statement said. However, there was no mention of plans for monetary policy, such as a reduction in the amount of cash banks must keep in reserve, a cut in interest rates or a drive to get banks lending more. Investors were unmoved by the announcement, with Shanghai's benchmark composite index down 0.15 percent in the morning session. The state-run Xinhua news agency quoted officials at the meeting as saying the government will take other steps this year including stimulating enterprises and boosting domestic consumption and employment. China's leadership says it wants to transform the country's growth model from an over-reliance on often wasteful investment, instead making private demand the driver for more sustainable development. "These measures show that Premier Li’s government aims to stabilise short-term growth with policies which can enhance efficiency while avoiding future financial troubles," Bank of America Merrill Lynch economists Lu Ting and Sylvia Sheng said in a report Wednesday. "We believe these measures are the right policy responses to the 'fiscal cliff' as a consequence of the anti-corruption campaign, and we think markets will overall welcome them." Since becoming head of the ruling Communist Party in November 2012 and state president in March last year, Xi Jinping has mounted an austerity campaign among top officials and a highly publicised crackdown on corruption that has seen some high-ranking officials sacked or charged. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved. FREE AppDownload
