REUTERS/Christinne MuschiFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Ten Reasons Why You Should Stay Active In Stocks (The AllianceBernstein Blog) On the AllianceBernstein Blog, Sharon Fay wrote about the importance of staying active in equities, rather than passive investing. "We understand the appeal of passive investing. It offers lower fees and simplicity. And many investors are skeptical about the ability of active managers to consistently beat a benchmark. Often, a passive portfolio can be a good complementary component to an active allocation, especially in large-cap developed markets," she said. "Yet there’s also a lot of evidence supporting the benefits of an active approach. Today, we see many risks that are hard to avoid by hugging a benchmark—and opportunities that simply cannot be captured by going passive." The ten reasons for staying active in stocks are (verbatim): 1. To steer clear of expensive areas2. To manage a rising rate environment3. To navigate political risk4. To deal with disintermediation5. To avoid bubbles6. To capture technological innovation7. To adjust to economic recovery8. To find higher revenue growth9. To benefit beyond the benchmark10. To exploit less intensively researched universes The Time To Create A Succession Plan Might Be Earlier Than You Think (Wealth Management) Older advisors aren't the only ones who need to create a succession plan. Instead of waiting until near retirement, Anita Venkiteswaran, vice president at Focus Financial Partners, has three suggestions to keep in mind when planning for your business' future.  1. "Right fit. The most critical aspect of external succession planning is finding the right firm match. The best match happens when two firms not only share similar values and principles, but also understand each other’s client niche, service model and investment philosophy. There is likely no identical firm to yours, but think through criteria that are important to you in a firm that would serve your clients in your absence. Make a list and prioritize them." 2. "Right time. Many people struggle with the question – 'When is the right time to start putting together a viable succession plan?' The answer is NOW. Whether you are a $500 million dollar firm or a $25 million dollar firm, whether you are 35 years old or 60 years old, your clients are important to you and you should be thinking about them and their future in your absence." 3. "Right value. ...Do not get hung up on the revenue multiples being thrown out in the industry. Instead think about how to build a business that can bring some value to the partner you identified. Only then can you ensure that your family gets some equity value out of the business that you have put your blood and sweat into building." How To Become Your Clients' One Advisor For All Their Assets (Financial Planning) Often clients will try to spread their assets among several advisors in order to lower their risk. However, that leaves the advisor with "a jumble of assets that don’t complement each other and lack diversification," writes Bruce Fraser in Financial Planning. To bring in all of a client's outside assets, advisors should take a systematic approach, sit down with their clients, and go over a financial plan and goals. "Once advisors have mapped out a financial plan, as part of a quarterly meeting cycle or a comprehensive annual review, they can point out the benefits of consolidating assets under one advisor, and the difficulty to monitor a financial plan if the assets are spread in multiple directions," Fraser said. "Technology is also playing a bigger role. Some advisors are taking a holistic approach and using account aggregation tools." Experienced Advisors Are Staying In Their Current Positions Because of Economic Improvement (InvestmentNews) According to InvestmentNews' Advisers on the Move database, only 58 veteran advisor teams switched firms in the second quarter, down from 97 teams a year ago. This is also lower than the 101 teams that moved in Q1. Recruiters and executives have attributed this slowdown to market highs and a strong economy. "There is an overall slowdown, not just for the quarter but if you look at the year in aggregate the pie of advisers changing firms has shrunk," Tash Elwyn, president of Raymond James &amp; Associates, Inc, told InvestmentNews. "The market at new highs certainly can lead to higher satisfaction levels by clients, which then leads in turn to higher satisfaction levels by advisers." How To Recognize And Stop Financial Abuse of Elderly Clients (Wall Street Journal) Financial abuse is an important problem especially among the elderly, and advisors are in an advantageous position to recognize and stop the issue. In a WSJ column, Paul Hynes at HearthStone Private Wealth Management writes about tactics to spot financial abuse. "Financial elder abuse encompasses anything from the unauthorized use of bank accounts to wire scams to deceiving or even coercing someone to change their power of attorney," he said. "Maybe the best way to prevent the financial abuse of an elderly client is simply to keep in touch with them and inquire about their lives. Checking in over the phone is helpful, but advisers should really make an effort to see clients face-to-face." "Potential red flags include a change in living conditions, like the addition of a full-time caregiver, for example. In-home caregivers may have access to information about the elder person's assets and accounts, and may be in a position to exercise significant influence or control over the elderly person," Hynes said. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsIt’s the financial mystery of 2014: With unemployment dropping and inflation creeping higher, why haven’t interest rates spiked? The consensus answer: Because Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen has convinced financial markets that the central bank isn’t planning to raise benchmark interest rates anytime soon. Usually more ornery than it has been of late, the bond market has played along, but things change – and when they do, the world of fixed income may be in for a bumpy ride. The mere hint of tighter monetary policy usually sends bond markets swooning. Ten-year Treasury yields rose nearly a full percentage point in the four months after former Chairman Ben Bernanke first suggested in May 2013 that the central bank could start reducing its monthly asset purchases “within the next few meetings.” The bank held off from the start of tapering for seven months, but it began doing so in December, and it continues along that trajectory today. Which brings us back to the mystery. Yields on ten-year Treasuries have actually fallen since tapering began: from 3 percent at the beginning of the year to 2.58 percent as of July 8, despite an improving labor market and signs of inflation. How long can the seeming disconnect last? James Sweeney, Chief Economist for Credit Suisse’s Investment Bank, says four economic conditions need to be in place for interest rates to rise ahead of – and independent of – the Fed’s forward guidance. The economy met only one of those conditions in April, but it meets two today, and will likely meet all four by the end of the year. When that happens, a market that is currently is pricing for a September 2015 rate hike is likely to move expectations forward. What follows is a status report on the four conditions. Credit Markets Turn Frothy: Happened A While Ago As of mid-July, high-yield borrowers paid, on average, a premium of 3.48 percentage points over Treasuries, well below the already historically low 5.11-point spread at this time last year and light years away from the 21.82 percent peak in December 2008. On an absolute basis, too, the 5.29 percent average yield for high-yield bonds is the lowest it’s been in a decade. Concerns that tight credit spreads and low market volatility might threaten financial stability prompted Kansas City Fed President Esther George to advocate raising short-term interest rates faster than currently anticipated in the Federal Reserve’s dot survey. In a July 3 speech, however, Yellen said that she sees no imminent need to tighten policy based on financial stability concerns.  Inflation at 2%: Just Happened Core CPI inflation, which does not include food and energy prices, has increased steadily in 2014, from a January reading of 1.6 percent to 2 percent in May. Credit Suisse rates strategists noted in a report last month that Yellen has waved away inflation worries for now, “calling the evidence of a rise in inflation ‘noisy,’ and striking a relatively dovish tone despite acknowledging the high degree of uncertainty a number of times.” But that kind of talk, they add, puts the Federal Reserve in danger of falling behind the curve when it comes to the market’s reaction to inflation data going forward. Improving Global Growth Momentum: Happening Now Growth in global industrial production (measured on an annualized rolling three-month basis) slowed from 5.3 percent in November 2013 to 3.4 percent in June. Idiosyncratic regional factors drove the slowdown, chief among them being the twin effects of a brutal winter and inventory overhang in the U.S. But Credit Suisse’s fixed income team says improving U.S. manufacturing data and rising levels of new orders in recent PMI surveys suggest that global industrial production momentum may have troughed in June. The team expects it to accelerate through the fourth quarter, and for global GDP growth to grow 3.3 percent in the second half of the year. Unemployment Below 6%: Should Happen By Year-End The U.S. unemployment rate hit 6.1 percent in June, and Credit Suisse economists expect it will fall to 5.8 percent by the end of the year, a whisper away from the 5.2 percent to 5.5 percent range the Fed considers “full employment.” In a June 18 press conference, Yellen said declining labor force participation rates indicate lingering slack in the labor market. If those frustrated workers resume their job searches as the economy strengthens, she added, the downward march in unemployment should slow. But a recent analysis by Credit Suisse economists suggests that declining participation rates are more structural than cyclical, and that even if unemployment dropped a full 1 percent over the next year, any resulting increase in the participation rate would be an insignificant 0.05 to 0.1 percentage points, making Yellen’s hypothetical unlikely. The Fed’s dovish signals to this point are understandable. Economic activity, while improving, isn’t back where it needs to be. U.S. GDP, for example, is expected to rise just 1.5 percent this year, the slowest growth rate since 2009. But the doves’ days seem numbered. As soon as next month, Credit Suisse expects the Fed outlook to become more balanced as central bankers zero in on an exit strategy from more than five years of near-zero interest rates. And once that happens, the long-awaited bond market reckoning is likely to finally make an appearance. FREE AppDownload
Instagram/javierthelieutenantEveryone has been going nuts over a penny stock, CYNK Technology, that has surged 25,000% since mid-June. Friday, the Securities and Exchange Commission suspended trading of CYNK until July 24. CYNK Technology operates a "social network" called Introbiz.com. The company has no revenue, assets, or full-time employees. It has also been a mystery who runs the company.  According to a filing with OTC Markets, the company's CEO is Javier Romero.  "Javier Romero is the President, CEO, Secretary, Treasurer, and Director of Cynk Technologies, Inc. Since 2009 Mr. Romero has been a Fisheries Officer for the Government of Belize based out of Belize City," the filing says. Other than that, there's scant information available on Romero. Introbiz is a website that allows users to pay for connections to celebrities and business people on social media. We were able to track Romero down via a more old-fashioned technology, Facebook, where the profile includes photos of him flying airplanes and fishing. On the Facebook messaging system, he seemed to match the description on the filing. He told us that he's from Belize and lives in Boston. He also said he's learning how to fly airplanes and that he used to work as a fishery officer back in Belize. Eventually, we asked for his number and called him up. When reached by telephone, the man responded when we addressed him as "Javier." But after we told him we were working on a story about CYNK Technology, he quickly told us that he's not Javier and that his name is Jason. "Jason" told us that he works for Javier, but doesn't work for the company. He said that he's been friends with Javier since they were kids in Belize. He also said that Javier is in Boston for the next few days.  Here's what we talked about on the phone:  BI: Hey Javier, it's Julia. "Jason": Hi. How are ya? BI: How are you doing? "Jason": [laughs] All right. BI: Are you in Boston right now? "Jason": I am actually. BI: I'm a reporter and I've been really impressed with this company I know you're affiliated with — CYNK Technology and Introbiz. I was wondering if you could help me out and tell me more about it.  "Jason": [laughs] Hey, I actually knew there was basically something like that going on. BI: So were you surprised the stock went up so high?  "Jason": Well, actually I'm not Javier. I work for him.  BI: Wait. But why are you Javier on Facebook? That's a little weird. "Jason": Yeah. I work for him. BI: Well, where's Javier? "Jason": He's actually out right now. I don't really want to disclose his business. I can definitely get a number for you guys. BI: Yeah. So do you work at CYNK, too?  "Jason": I don't. I just work for him. I don't know.  BI: Oh you work for him, but you don't work with Introbiz? "Jason": I do not. BI: If you're not 'Javier' then what's your name? "Jason": My name is Jason. BI: Jason what? "Jason": Hah. Ahhh like I said if you want to give me a number I can have him reach you guys.  BI: Is he also in Boston with you? "Jason": He is here. He will be here for a couple of days.  BI: Is he really excited about the stock?  "Jason": I'm sure he's going nuts about it or whatever. We haven't really talked about it. Like I said, I just work for him. BI: You get to be Javier on Facebook?  "Jason": He asked me to check out his stuff. I just let him know what's going on. BI: Does he usually let you talk to girls on his Facebook? "Jason": Uh, no. BI: I was really hoping you could give me a little more insight into this.  "Jason": Personally, I don't know much. I just work for the guy. We've been very good friends since we were young. He recently got a hold of me and said he has a job for me.  BI: How did you guys meet?  "Jason": You know like I said Julia I don't know if I should be talking to anyone about this. BI: You sound a little nervous on the phone. "Jason": Yeah no, because I'm not supposed to be talking to too much people on his Facebook for him. I was just supposed to check his message. Then, here's this good looking girl and she wants to talk to me. I got a little carried away, OK.  Jason has our number and we'll update if he or Javier gets in touch. Meanwhile, we might just reach out on Introbiz. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsMorgan Stanley analysts published their annual "Vintage Values 2015" report highlighting what they considered to be the best stocks for the next 12 months. "We selected stocks with over $1 billion in market cap that look likely to realize superior risk-adjusted returns between now and July 2015," they wrote Their research reflects consideration of anticipated events over the next year, and how these events will impact the selected stocks. Additionally, they note that their Vintage Values portfolio is "biased toward high quality, growth, and large market cap" and trades at a higher P/E valuation than the S&amp;P 500. FREE AppDownload
One of the last stalwarts of a bygone era of New York City nightlife, Pink Elephant, has declared bankruptcy. And while we will all surely cherish the memories, not one party-loving New Yorker should shed a tear. It was long past time for this place to be put out of its misery. "Nightclubs start out successful but then you have to reinvent the wheel," owner Roee Nahmani told Crain's New York. "The neighborhood is evolving. It was just too soon to put Pink Elephant there." No. It isn't that the neighborhood is "evolving". It's that New York City nightlife has evolved. It's not too soon for this club, Nahmani. It's too late. Let us walk you through it. Say it's 2004, maybe even 2006. Back then there was a kind of party that dominated all things associated with luxury in this town. It was the kind of party that was at Pink Elephant — the kind of party that elevated models and bottles, and had promoters leading roving packs of partiers through lines on West 27th Street and other parts of Chelsea and the Meatpacking District. It was a specific business model. Make the door hard to get through. Get the who's who in there to be seen and attract that scene that wanted to be seen with them.  At that time that included a lot of people. The girls would come, the boys would pay. This show was the coolest alternative to the fratastic bars on the Upper East Side and the dive bars on the Lower East Side. This was where a lot of people went to dance and look fabulous. But things change. A lot of it had to do with music. Around 2007 and 2008 some dance tracks — like Justice's 'D.A.N.C.E.' and Hercules and Love Affair's 'Blind' — came out and bubbled up to the mainstream just enough to remind a substantial number of people that to get really into a party, you had to sweat, and when you sweat your make-up runs and your hair gets undone. This realization was not scene-friendly. In other words, so many people no longer wanted to be seen at the scene anymore that the business model of attracting hoards of bottle guzzling girls and the guys that financed them no longer made any sense. At least, not on the scale that Pink Elephant once knew. It was also at that time that Andrew W.K. built Santos Party Haus in Chinatown. The concept — at that point somewhat of a throwback in Manhattan — was to let anyone in, have them pay cover and dance their butts off. Have them wear their sneakers. Bring in the best DJs and put them front and center because that's where the music should be. This DJ/music centric concept may sound familiar to you now, but the point here is that it wasn't always the thing to do. Now you see it in the Avicii concerts — in the David Guetta or Steve Aoki sets — that all the kids seem to be into. But that's not all there is to it. New York City  has always a hub for dance music. Hometown music lables like the famous DFA Records have been getting down in this town since the Pink Elephants of the world were going strong. New York City dancers have their own hometown heroes — like Lets Play House (celebrating their 5th anniversary this weekend) — wandering around town throwing parties whenever they can. New York City does not need a mega-DJ to have a good time. Friday night is special occasion enough (so is Monday, or Wednesday). What all this means is that in New York City, there is a happy medium between teenagers wearing neon shutter glasses and D-list actors or distant European royalty getting in fistfights with bouncers at clubs like Pink Elephant. There are big clubs like Output and Verboten in Williamsburg with hundreds of people, monster sound systems and killer line ups. There are smaller venues like Cameo Gallery, Glasslands and Bossa Nova Civic Club with dance floors like a friend's basement — small enough that you feel like you could know everyone in the room. These places do not have"door policies" aside from 'try to act like an adult human while you're in line.' So to review — Pink Elephant is going bankrupt for the same reason a lot of clubs go bankrupt. At it's core, the club is not cool enough to sustain itself anymore. Maybe scale down? FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Erik De CastroBengal tigers play in a pool of water at the zoo in Malabon, Metro Manila, July 11, 2014. Stocks climbed but ended the week down 0.6%. Scoreboard for Friday: Dow: 16,937.45, +22.38, +0.13%S&amp;P: 1,966.96, +2.28, +0.12%NASDAQ: 4,413, +17.89, +0.41% And now the top stories. 1) Wells Fargo reported earnings in-line with expectations but said mortgage revenue dropped 39% in the quarter on flagging demand. Shares closed down 0.6%.  2) Lorillard confirmed they were in talks to get bought out by Reynolds. An acquisition would reshape the tobacco industry and create a powerful rival to No. 1 cigarette maker Altria, the Wall Street Journal said. Lorillard shares climbed nearly 5%.  3) The U.S. posted its first four-month net surplus since 2007, and its lowest fiscal-year deficit since 2008.  4) The SEC halted over-the-counter trading in Cynk, an Internet company that saw its value rise more than 20,000% this week, citing irregularities.  5) Mobile games maker Glu Mobile climbed more than 10% on the strength of a game branded by Kim Kardashian about how to make it in Hollywood. "The Kardashian game takes users inside Hollywood, guided by a virtual Kim who offers advice on how to become an A-list celebrity, starting from the so-called E-list," Bloomberg's Caitlin McCabe reported. “Dating famous people will get you more fans, too,” instructs Kardashian according to McCabe. Don't Miss: Something About The U.S. Economy Seems Off » FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsTreasury DepartmentThe U.S. government posted a net surplus over a four-month period for the first time since 2007 in the March-June, according to the latest monthly Treasury statement.  For June, the surplus totaled $71 billion. That actually fell short of expectations of a surplus of $80 billion. Still, Washington is now on pace to record the lowest annual deficit since 2008, with a fiscal year to date deficit of $366 billion. That's 28% less than the shortfall recorded in the same period last year, according to Marketwatch, thanks mostly to increased revenue. “Deficits are rapidly declining,” Paul Edelstein, director of U.S. financial economics at IHS Global Insight Inc. in Lexington, Massachusetts, said before the report according to Bloomberg. “A lot of it is coming on the revenue side, mostly from taxes -- there were increases in payroll taxes last year, which are still being felt this year, corporate profits are up and they are paying more in taxes.” Here's the chart: Treasury Click here to see the full release from the Treasury Department »  FREE AppDownload
Kevin Dooley / Flickr, CCA group of golfing buddies were charged by the Securities and Exchange Commission in an alleged insider trading scheme that netted them more that $554,000 in illicit profits, the agency said in a release.  From 2009 until 2011, amateur golfer Eric McPhail, 40, shared non-public information about American Superconductor Corporation (AMSC) with six friends, the SEC claims. The SEC alleges that McPhail received non-public information from one of the company's executives he befriended at the country club golf course. The AMSC exec wasn't named in the complaint.  According to the complaint, McPhail would then share info about yet-to-be-released earnings reports and deals with his golf buddies and friends via a group email chain. In one of his tips, McPhail wrote, "I like Pinot Noir and love steak …. looking forward to getting paid back. Good Luck …. SHHHHHHHHHHHHH!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!"  From the complaint [.PDF]:  On September 29, 2009, at 12:38 a.m., McPhail emailed Parigian and Andy Drohen: Well boys....went to the Sox game with a friend of mine tonight. He seems to think that AMSC has a $100 million deal with China that should be signed very shortly. It could be done in the next few days … if it is not done/announced by Thursday, it will not be announced until the week of the 12th because all of China shuts down on vacation for 10 days – starting Friday. This announcement should spike them close to 10%. Furthermore, circle October 29th for the next big day…it could/should be as good as the last one, provided the market cooperates that day. I like Pinot Noir and love steak….looking forward to getting paid Good Luck …. SHHHHHHHHHHHHH!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  Parigian responded to McPhail later that morning stating: “I will take you for a nice dinner at [a high end steakhouse].” Records on the Golf Handicap Information Network show that McPhail golfs at the Oakley Country Club in Massachusetts. He has a golf handicap of 3.3 and his last outing was in June, the records show. According to the SEC's complaint, McPhail became a member of the country club because of his wife. After they got divorced, the American Superconductor exec petitioned so he could keep his membership.   Here's the full SEC press release:  The Securities and Exchange Commission today charged a group of friends, most of them golfing buddies, who made more than $554,000 of illegal profits from trading on inside information about Massachusetts-based American Superconductor Corporation. In a complaint filed in federal court in Boston, the SEC alleges that Eric McPhail repeatedly provided non-public information about American Superconductor to six others, most fellow competitive amateur golfers.  McPhail’s source was an American Superconductor executive who belonged to the same country club as McPhail and was a close friend.  According to the complaint, from July 2009 through April 2011, the executive told McPhail about American Superconducter’s expected earnings, contracts, and other major pending corporate developments, trusting that McPhail would keep the information confidential. Instead, McPhail, of Waltham, Massachusetts, misappropriated the inside information about the energy technology company and fed it to his friends, often via email.  The insider-trading ring included a handful of golfing buddies, four of whom live in Massachusetts: Douglas A. Parigian of Lowell, John J. Gilmartin of Andover, Douglas Clapp of Walpole, and James A. “Andy” Drohen of Granville. The fifth, Drohen’s brother, John C. Drohen, is a resident of Cranston, Rhode Island.  In addition to the group of golfers, McPhail tipped a sixth man, his longtime friend Jamie A. Meadows, of Springfield, Massachusetts.  Each of the six traded and profited on the inside information McPhail supplied to them. “Whether the tips are passed on the golf course, in a bar, or elsewhere, the SEC will continue to track down those who seek an unfair advantage trading stocks,” said Paul G. Levenson, director of the SEC’s Boston Regional Office.  “Working with our partners in law enforcement, we are sending a message to all investors that insider trading does not pay.”  According to the SEC’s complaint, in April 2011, McPhail tipped Parigian and Meadows a few days before American Superconductor announced that it expected fourth-quarter and fiscal year-end results to be weaker due to a deteriorating relationship with its primary customer, China-based Sinovel Wind Group Co., Ltd.  Parigian and Meadows used the information to place bets, through option contracts, that the company’s stock price would decline. When American Superconductor made the announcement, its stock price fell 42 percent and as a result of this one tip alone, Parigian made profits and avoided losses of $278,289, while Meadows made profits of $191,521. McPhail tipped the various defendants on other occasions, funneling them inside information about American Superconductor’s quarterly earnings announcements in July and September 2009, and again in January 2010.  He also alerted them in the fall of 2009 to a contract worth $100 million, and in November 2010 to a likely drop in American Superconductor’s share’s price, which occurred a few days later when AMSC announced a secondary stock offering. The complaint charges that McPhail, Parigian, Gilmartin, Clapp, the Drohens, and Meadows violated federal antifraud laws and the SEC’s antifraud rule, and seeks to have them be enjoined, return their allegedly ill-gotten gains with interest, and pay financial penalties of up to three times their gains.  Gilmartin, Clapp, and the Drohens agreed to settle the SEC’s charges, without admitting or denying the allegations, by consenting to the entry of judgments permanently enjoining them from violating the relevant securities laws.  The judgments also order: The SEC’s investigation was conducted by Asita Obeyesekere and Kevin Kelcourse of its Boston Regional Office and by Mike Foster of its Chicago Regional Office, who will lead the SEC’s litigation of this matter.  The SEC appreciates the cooperation and assistance of the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Massachusetts and the Boston Field Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation in this matter.  The SEC also thanks the Options Regulatory Surveillance Authority and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority for their assistance. Here's a breakdown of the alleged ill-gotten gains:  SEC FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/David W CernyPhiladelphia Federal Reserve President Charles Plosser(Reuters) - A top U.S. central banker said on Friday the Federal Reserve may be "closer than a lot of people think" to raising interest rates given the firmer recent inflation and labor data. Charles Plosser, president of the Philadelphia Fed, told Bloomberg TV the Fed is now closer than it has been to reaching its objectives, no matter how they are measured, adding: "We should not be keeping interest rates at zero until we reach all our objectives." Many monetary policy rules and guidelines are now suggesting the Fed should start to tighten policy after years of accommodation in the post-crisis era, Plosser said. "For us to deviate from what these guidelines and benchmark rules tell us, we'd have to have pretty good reason to want to deviate from them and explain why," he said. "So I think we're closer than a lot of people might think."   (Reporting by Jonathan Spicer in New York; Editing by James Dalgleish) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mark BlinchSomething seems off in the economy.  Over a three-week span starting next Monday, 72% of the S&amp;P 500's members will report earnings, but some of the early indications about this earnings season, especially from companies highly exposed to the U.S. consumer, have not been encouraging.  On Tuesday afternoon, two companies that are all about consumer spending, Bob Evans and The Container Store, reported earnings that were disappointing. But even more discouraging were the comments from company executives. Bob Evans, which wrapped up its fiscal year 2014 in its most recent quarter, said its results were impacted by severe weather (an oft heard refrain during the first quarter), as well as high food costs. In the upcoming year, the company's CFO, Mark Hood, said, "consumer confidence continues to be adversely impacted by ongoing macroeconomic headwinds, including health care costs and unemployment which disproportionately affects lower- and middle- income consumers." Also on Tuesday afternoon, Container Store CEO Kip Tindell said in the company's earnings release that, "Consistent with so many of our fellow retailers, we are experiencing a retail 'funk.'" Wednesday evening, Lumber Liquidators, a specialty hardwood flooring retailer, said that the consumer demand it experienced following the tough winter didn't carry into May and June. CEO Robert Lynch said, "The improvement in customer demand we experienced beginning in mid-March did not carry into May, and June weakened further. Our reduced customer traffic has coincided with certain weak macroeconomic trends related to residential remodeling, including existing home sales, which have generally been lower in 2014 than the corresponding periods in 2013." Thursday morning saw more downbeat commentary from a retailer, this time Family Dollar. Following the company's report, which saw that same store sales fell 1.8% during the quarter, CEO Howard Levine said, "Our results continue to reflect the economic challenges facing our core customer and an intense competitive environment."  Siu Chiu/Reuters And then yesterday afternoon, Gap topped off the week of discouraging retail commentary by reporting June same-store sales that fell 2% year-over-year. According to data from Bloomberg, sales were expected increase 0.8%. Gap's management, however, was light on additional color.  This rash of discouraging retail data, however, makes the broader U.S. economic picture seem murky.  Last week, the nonfarm payrolls report for June showed employers added 288,000 jobs as the unemployment rate fell to 6.1%. The report also showed that the number of involuntary part-time workers rose 275,000 to 7.5 million.  And these workers, which the BLS calls "persons employed part-time for economic reasons," could be part of the "lower- and middle-income consumer" that Bob Evans discussed in its quarterly report.  Earlier this week, however, the Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey, or JOLTS report, showed that job openings surged to 4.635 million in May, exceeding expectations for 4.35 million.  Economists were encouraged by the report, with Peter Tchir at Brean Capital saying that, "You have to go back to June 2007 to get a better number."  The JOLTS report also indicated that there are now 2.11 job seekers for each opening, the best level since 2008. This reading broadly indicates that there is diminishing "slack" in the labor market, or basically how much demand exists for each job opening.  And so it seems that the labor market is making significant progress toward getting back to pre-financial crisis levels. But broadly, consumer demand seems to have been weak in a number of areas of the economy during the second quarter.  Aluminum giant Alcoa unofficially kicked off earnings season with its report Tuesday afternoon, and there is still a long way to go to get a full picture of just what's going on out there. But the first week of earnings has certainly given us some mixed, if not downright disappointing, signals about the U.S. consumer.  FREE AppDownload
Mohammad Saiful Islam/CGAPThe shoemaker in Turkey, the potato seller in Vietnam, and the weaver in Bolivia are among the billions of low-income entrepreneurs who make the world go round. They are also the type of people who can benefit significantly from microfinance. Every year, the Consultative Group To Assist The Poor (or CGAP) hosts a photo contest asking entrants to submit photos based around the idea of microfinance. The purpose of the contest is to give amateur and professional photographers a chance to show the different ways that poor households manage their financial lives and make their lives better through financial inclusion.  Housed at the World Bank, CGAP is an advocacy group that works with development agencies, foundations, and national governments to advance the lives of the poor by improving their access to finance. The 2014 Photo Contest is now open for submissions until October 8th. The nonprofit is looking for photos that show how financial inclusion makes a difference in the lives of the poor. CGAP shared a selection of the 2013 winners with us here, but you can submit your own photos on the contest website.
Back in May we told you that FactSet was teaming up with SumZero, an online community for investment ideas, to throw a quarterly idea competition with up to $160,000 up for grabs. Well now we have our first round of winners. In first place we have Michael Wood, a 24year-old Toronto resident and portfolio manager at Evans Investment Council. He beat out a load of more seasoned investors with his long thesis on Samsung, in which he reasoned that the stock could return 145%. For his efforts, he'll take home $15,000 and get to talk about his idea on CNBC's Fast Money Halftime report on Friday. Woods' pitch was pretty simple: "At today's prices, Samsung Electronics is trading at 9.5x 2015 operating profit of the memory business, ascribing $0 value to IT &amp; mobile, display and home appliance businesses." We have the thesis for you after the jump. In the meantime, you should know what the second and third place winners pitched. Second place winner Siddharth Choraria of APS Asset Management in Singapore pitched Tsui Wah Holdings Ltd. Third place winner Joshua Kennedy of Sonian Capital Management in Boston, MA pitched Tingyi Holding Co. You can check out their presentations over at SumZero, and learn more about the rules of the contest here. FREE AppDownload
Copyright Related/OxfordA rendering of the future view of Hudson Yards from New Jersey at night.New York City is constantly evolving as new skyscrapers shoot into the sky. And adding to the city's already dynamic skyline is Hudson Yards, a massive new development on Manhattan's far west side. The $20 billion project is a joint effort between real estate firm Related Companies and real estate investment, development, and management company Oxford Properties Group. The first phase of Hudson Yards is slated for completion in the next four years. The complex, which will sit between 10th and 12th Avenues and run from 30th to 34th Street, will include public parks, office towers, shops, restaurants, and more. It will be made accessible by an extension of the existing No. 7 subway line. We recently got a tour of the construction site and renderings of what Hudson Yards will look like when it's complete. Keep reading to see what the future holds for Manhattan's West Side.
StreetEasyThe owner of the largest beer company in the world has bought a luxurious apartment in Central Park West, according to NY Daily News.  Brazilian billionaire Marcel Telles, owner of Anheuser-Busch InBev, spent a whopping $31 million on his new condo. With a net worth of $11.6 billion, Telles is one of the richest men in Brazil. With three bedrooms, three bathrooms, and a library, the apartment is over 3,000-square-feet big. The building includes a fitness center with a 75-foot pool, a screening room, private wine cellars, a walnut-paneled library, and a private dining room for its residents. The apartment previously belonged to Tyler Ellis, daughter of fashion designer Perry Ellis. Ellis spent $11 million on the place in 2008. FREE AppDownload
College is expensive, but the income gap between college graduates and those without a degree has widened sharply in the last few years. This chart from a presentation by Bill Emmons at the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, and alerted to us by guest author Invictus over at Barry Ritholtz's The Big Picture blog, shows the growing gap in income between those with at least a bachelor's degree and workers who haven't finished college. "[I]t’s not so much that those with college degrees are doing particularly well, it’s that everyone else is doing significantly worse," wrote Invictus. "This is a stunner." Emmons chart tracks incomes on an inflation-adjusted basis. Only the college-educated households have been able to preserve their purchasing power. William Emmons, Reserve Bank of St. Louis FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ Brendan McDermidBoaz WeinsteinSaba Capital, the hedge fund run by legendary credit trader Boaz Weinstein, is on track for another down year so far. The fund is down 2.9% through the end of June, Bloomberg News reports citing an investor letter. According to the report, Saba's assets under management have fallen to $2.6 billion due to redemptions. At one time, Weinstein managed $5.5 billion.  Before founding Saba in 2009, Weinstein was the co-head of credit trading at Deutsche Bank. In 2011, he made headlines for being the trader who took the other side of JPMorgan's disastrous "London Whale" trade.  The fund had losing years in 2012 and 2013.  FREE AppDownload
APIf you've been desperately trying to find a good Scud missile to add to your military arsenal, there's a Silicon Valley auction that's right up your alley. Up for sale on Friday and Saturday in Portola Valley, California, is the Littlefield Collection, a vast array of tanks, vehicles, and military weaponry amassed from World War I to present by the late Jacques Littlefield, a former HP engineer. "The Littlefield Collection boasts an impressive range of vehicles and represents points in history that appeal to a global audience beyond traditional military collectors," said Ian Kelleher, a specialist with Auctions America, in a statement. "The majority of the collection remains drivable and usable and can be easily repurposed for private use." Littlefield founded California's Military Vehicle Technology Foundation, which housed many of the artifacts and vehicles comprising his collection. We picked our favorites among the 114 vehicles, parts, and accessories that are up for grabs.
The founder of Tesla and SpaceX had an early start in tech and business.  Produced by Matt Johnston. Follow BI Video on Facebook &gt;
REUTERS/Jean-Paul PelissierA young croupier trainee displays chips on a gaming table at the Cerus Casino Academy in Marseille, November 6, 2013.The World Series of Poker (WSOP) is currently going on at the Rio Hotel and Casino is Las Vegas, and we're highlighting our favorite play of the day. On Thursday the Dutch player Jolmer Meelis made an insane call — and it actually paid off. The board had a 10<U+2660>, 7<U+2663>, 3<U+2665> after the flop. Meelis bet 12,000 and his opponent, Steve Tripp, called. The fourth card was a 10<U+2666>, and that's when things got interesting. Meelis decided to check. Tripp bet 32,000. After thinking about his next move for a few moments, Meelis decided to make the call. A 2<U+2663> came up on the river, and Meelis checked. According to the WSOP blog, approximately 20 seconds later, "Tripp asked Meelis to make his stack visible, and the Dutchman complied by moving his hands". After seeing Meelis' remaining 100,500 chips, Tripp deciced to go all in. For those who are familiar with poker, you know that generally at a moment like this a player will think about his next move. But not Meelis — he immediately made the call and revealed his A<U+2666> K<U+2660>.  Tripp did not reveal his cards, and merely responded "Nice call". Looks like at least one Dutch player had a bit off luck. Additional WSOP News:Defending champion Ryan Riess, known as "Riess the Beast", is out.The only remaining Main Event winner left is Huck See (1996).David Einhorn, hedge fund manager and renowned poker player had a good day on Thursday. Additionally, he tweeted a great play where he "slow played his two Kings, and doubled up". In 2006, he finished in 18th place and donated his winnings to the Michael J. Fox foundation.Source: Poker News FREE AppDownload
Here's a fascinating projection that Credit Suisse Research just tweeted. By 2030, Credit Suisse expects the global stock market to balloon to $284.2 trillion and look like what you see below. According to the World Federation of Exchanges, the total value of stocks in the top 60 major stock market exchanges was $62.4 trillion as of July 2014. "The United States retains its ranking as the largest global equity market with a (nominal dollar) capitalization of USD 98 trillion, with a weight of 34.6% (representing a USD 74 trillion gain since 2014), while China advances ahead of both the UK and Japan to become the second largest equity market with a USD 54 trillion capitalization and a weight of 18.9% (representing a USD 50 trillion nominal gain from 2014)," wrote Credit Suisse analysts. @CSResearch FREE AppDownload
The SEC has issued a statement on the trading halt in shares of CYNK Technology. Earlier this morning, CYNK shares were halted for trade, though nothing official had been released by the SEC. Now, the SEC has suspended trading in CYNK until July 24, "because of concerns regarding the accuracy and adequacy of information in the marketplace and potentially manipulative transactions in CYNK's common stock." CYNK, which gained nearly 25,000% in just a few days, was the top story of the day yesterday as the company's meteoric rise came despite the company's having no revenue. At one point yesterday, the company's market cap surged to more than $5 billion. OTCMarkets.com According to OTC Bulletin Board, the halt is a "U3" halt, which is an "extraordinary event halt." From the OTC Bulletin Board: "Trading is halted because FINRA has determined that an extraordinary event has occurred or is ongoing that has had a material effect on the market for the OTC Equity Security or the security underlying an OTC ADR or has caused or has the potential to cause major disruption to the marketplace or significant uncertainty in the settlement and clearance process." Yesterday Street Insider, citing sources, reported that trading in CYNK was being looked at by regulators and that a suspension of trading in shares of CYNK was coming soon. Here's the full statement from the SEC. SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Release No. 72594 / July 11, 2014 The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission announced the temporary suspension, pursuant to Section 12(k) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”), of trading of the securities of Cynk Technology Corp. (“CYNK”), of Belize City, Belize at 9:30 a.m. EDT on July 11, 2014, and terminating at 11:59 p.m. EDT on July 24, 2014. The Commission temporarily suspended trading in the securities of CYNK because of concerns regarding the accuracy and adequacy of information in the marketplace and potentially manipulative transactions in CYNK’s common stock. The Commission cautions brokers, dealers, shareholders, and prospective purchasers that they should carefully consider the foregoing information along with all other currently available information and any information subsequently issued by the company. Further, brokers and dealers should be alert to the fact that, pursuant to Rule 15c2-11 under the Exchange Act, at the termination of the trading suspension, no quotation may be entered unless and until they have strictly complied with all of the provisions of the rule. If any broker or dealer has any questions as to whether or not he has complied with the rule, he should not enter any quotation but immediately contact the staff in the Division of Trading and Markets, Office of Interpretation and Guidance, at (202) 551-5777. If any broker or dealer is uncertain as to what is required by Rule 15c2-11, he should refrain from entering quotations relating to CYNK’s securities until such time as he has familiarized himself with the rule and is certain that all of its provisions have been met. If any broker or dealer enters any quotation that is in violation of the rule, the Commission will consider the need for prompt enforcement action. If any broker, dealer or other person has any information that may relate to this matter, they should immediately contact Michael D. Paley, Assistant Regional Director, New York Regional Office at (212) 336-0145, or Elisha L. Frank, Assistant Regional Director, Miami Regional Office at (305) 982-6392. FREE AppDownload
ShutterstockRetailers are clamoring for their share of the menswear market.  Men are shopping more than ever, thanks to the convenience of the Internet and stores working to tailor to their needs.  We've compiled a list of some of the best and brightest men's fashion offerings, and we want to know your favorites.  Please take a few minutes to fill out the survey below. Thanks in advance for your time and cooperation. We'll publish the results in a couple of weeks. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Shannon StapletonWells Fargo kicked off second-quarter earnings for the banks. The bank reported Q2 earnings per share of $1.01. That's right in line with consensus analyst estimates. The fourth largest U.S. bank was expected to report adjusted earnings per share of $1.01, up 3% year-over-year, according to analysts polled by Bloomberg.   Revenue for the quarter came in at $21.1 billion, which was better than analyst estimates. Revenue for Q2 was expected to come in at $20.836 billion, down 3.4% year-over-year, according to Bloomberg. "By continuing to serve customers we grew loans, increased deposits and deepened our relationships. Our results also reflected strong credit quality driven by an improved economy, especially the housing market, and our continued risk discipline," Wells Fargo CEO John Stumpf said in the earnings release. Shares of Wells Fargo are up slightly in the pre-market. Here's an excerpt from the release:  WELLS FARGO REPORTS $5.7 BILLION IN NET INCOMEDiluted EPS of $1.01, Up 3 Percent From Prior Year Continued strong financial results: Strong loan and deposit growth: Continued improvement in credit quality: Higher return to shareholders while maintaining strong capital levels SAN FRANCISCO – Wells Fargo &amp; Company (NYSE:WFC) reported net income of $5.7 billion, or $1.01 per diluted common share, for second quarter 2014, up from $5.5 billion, or $0.98 per share, for second quarter 2013. For the first six months of 2014, net income was $11.6 billion, or $2.06 per share, up from $10.7 billion, or $1.90 per share, for the same period in 2013. “Our strong results in the second quarter reflected the benefit of our diversified business model and our long-term focus on meeting the financial needs of our customers,” said Chairman and CEO John Stumpf. “By continuing to serve customers we grew loans, increased deposits and deepened our relationships. Our results also reflected strong credit quality driven by an improved economy, especially the housing market, and our continued risk discipline. We are committed to both maintaining strong capital levels and returning more capital to our shareholders. In the second quarter we increased our common stock dividend 17 percent and repurchased 39.4 million shares. We remain dedicated to building long-term shareholder value, and I am optimistic about the future as we continue to focus on meeting the needs of our consumer, small business and commercial customers.” Chief Financial Officer John Shrewsberry said, “The primary drivers of Wells Fargo’s business remained strong in the second quarter, with broad-based loan growth, increased deposit balances, and improved credit quality. Revenue increased linked quarter as the Company grew both net interest income and noninterest income, a reflection of Wells Fargo’s diversified business model. These solid fundamental business results led to an increase in pre-tax income linked quarter. Net income was down as the Company’s effective tax rate was lower in the first quarter due to a $423 million discrete tax benefit.   FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Jeff Chiu, FileRobert Maegerle, left, walks out of a federal courthouse with attorney Jerome Froelich Jr. in San Francisco. Maegerle, a retired DuPont engineer, was convicted of economic espionage charges along with chemical engineer Walter Liew in March.OAKLAND, Calif. (AP) — A federal judge has sentenced a California chemical engineer to 15 years in prison and fined him $28.3 million for a rare economic-espionage conviction for selling China a secret recipe to a widely used white pigment. U.S. District Court Judge Jeffrey White said Thursday in Oakland that Liew, a naturalized U.S. citizen, had "turned against his adopted country over greed." A jury previously convicted the 56-year-old Liew of receiving $28 million from companies controlled by the Chinese government in exchange for DuPont Co.'s pigment technology for making cars, paper and a long list of everyday items whiter. Along with the $28.3 million Liew was ordered to forfeit and pay to DuPont, the engineering company launched by him and his wife was fined $18.9 million. White expressed doubt that Liew would pay back much of his debt. White noted that U.S. authorities had managed to trace $22 million of the $28 million received by Liew to various Singapore and Chinese companies controlled by Liew's in-laws before losing the trail. "We'll never get it," White said. "It has been spirited out of the country." Liew and his wife, Christina Liew, launched a small California company in the 1990s aimed at exploiting China's desire to build a DuPont-like factory to manufacture the white pigment known as titanium dioxide. The Liews hired retired DuPont engineers and, according to the FBI, paid them thousands of dollars for sensitive company documents laying out a process to make the pigment. Two former DuPont engineers have also been convicted of economic espionage. Another engineer committed suicide in early 2012 on the day he was to sign a plea bargain acknowledging his role in the conspiracy. Except for a few months of release on bail, Liew has been in jail since his arrest in 2011. Wearing yellow jail garb and with his wife and family looking on from the gallery, Liew apologized for his actions. "There are many things I would have liked to have done differently," Liew told the judge. "I regret my actions." Liew was born on a farm in Malaysia to Chinese parents and went on to earn advanced degrees in chemical engineering. "He's an ambitious man who made huge mistakes trying to make it into the big time," said Stuart Gasner, Liew's attorney. Liew's wife has pleaded not guilty to obstruction of justice and other charges. In 2009, the Chinese government-controlled Pangang Group Co. Ltd. awarded the Liews' company a $17 million contract to build a factory that could produce 100,000 metric tons of the pigment a year. The same company had earlier awarded the Liews' company millions more in similar contracts for smaller projects. Prosecutors allege that the Chinese factory was built with a detailed DuPont instruction manual stamped "confidential" that was previously used to build DuPont's newest plant in Taiwan. Robert Maegerle, a retired DuPont engineer, was convicted of economic-espionage charges along with Walter Liew in March. They are the first people to be convicted of economic espionage by a jury since Congress passed the Economic Espionage Act in 1996, according to the U.S. Department of Justice. About 20 other defendants have pleaded guilty to economic espionage charges before trial. Federal officials say foreign governments' theft of U.S. technology is one of the biggest threats to the country's economy and national security. "The battle against economic espionage has become one of the FBI's main fronts in its efforts to protect U.S. national security in the 21st century," said David Johnson, the FBI's special agent in charge of the San Francisco office. Maegerle, 78, is to be sentenced later and remains free on bail. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/BeawihartaA man take a rest near ballot boxes at Bendungan Hilir in Jakarta July 10, 2014. Good morning! Here's what you need to know. Espirito Santo: Isolated Incident? European stocks recovered Friday as fears over contagion risk from Portugal's Espirito Santo's solvency subsided. Goldman cut its outlook on the bank's parent company but said the reaction to its troubles was overblown. “Notwithstanding any further bad news, we think that the sovereign financial implications are rather limited,” they said according to Bloomberg. Gap Comps Drop. Gap's same-store sales fell 2% in June, and were off 7% in both regular Gap and the Banana Republic. Shares declined 1.3% after hours yesterday. A host of big retail chains have been reporting disappointing results in recent days. The Container Store, Family Dollar, and Lumber Liquidators all had the economy to blame. "Consistent with so many of our fellow retailers, we are experiencing a retail 'funk,'" said Container Store CEO Kip Tindell. "While consumers are buying homes and automobiles and even high ticket furniture, most segments of retail are, like us, seeing more challenging sales than we had hoped early in 2014 – so we’re not alone in this." Wells Fargo Earnings. The American banking behemoth announces its financial results at 8 a.m. Consensus is for $1.01/share.   Tobacco Stocks Surge. Reynolds is looking to buy Lorillard, while Imperial Tobacco could end up purchasing any LO assets Reynolds doesn't pick up, Bloomberg said. Imperial climbed 3.2%, while British American Tobacco, which owns Reynolds, was up 1%. Lorillard is up 5%.   Rail Traffic Surges. Volumes showed continued double-digit growth last week and brought the 12 week moving average in traffic to 7.5%, Cullen Roche notes. AAR reported: "270,731 total carloads, up 9.4 percent compared with the same week last year. Total U.S. weekly intermodal volume was 227,097 units, up 10.5 percent compared with the same week last year. Total combined U.S. weekly rail traffic was 497,828 carloads and intermodal units, up 9.9 percent compared with the same week last year.” Best Year For Hotels Since 2000. According to Bill McBride, weekly hotel occupancy for July 4 increased 4.4%, and the four-week moving average for 2014 shows hotels are having their strongest year in 14 years.   Buffett, Adelson, &amp; Gates Blast Congress. In a co-signed New York Times op-ed, the trio hammer Washington for not passing immigration reform, and for general inaction. "American citizens are paying 535 people to take care of the legislative needs of the country," they begin. "We are getting shortchanged. Here’s an example: On June 10, an incumbent congressman in Virginia lost a primary election in which his opponent garnered only 36,105 votes. Immediately, many Washington legislators threw up their hands and declared that this one event would produce paralysis in the United States Congress for at least five months." Plosser, Evans. Philadelphia Fed President Charles Plosser speaks at 11:15 a.m. today at the Rocky Mountain Economic Summit in Jackson Hole, Wyoming. He's followed by Chicago Fed President Charles Evans.  Markets. U.S. futures were up. European stocks were higher. Asian indexes closed lower.  No Major Economic Data On The Calendar. Have a great weekend. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Tyrone SiuGap sales staff prepare to open at Hong Kong's first Gap Store before its opening in the financial Central district November 25,2011. Gap Inc. announced that it's comparable store sales, which includes online sales, fell by 2%. According to Bloomberg, sales were expected to increase by around 0.8%. “Despite softer June results at Gap and Banana Republic, we remain focused on delivering in the upcoming Fall season," said CEO Glenn Murphy. Gap stores and Banana Republic stores each saw sales tumble 7%. Old Navy store sales, however, grew by 7%. Management didn't have much more to say about that. However a slew of big retail chains have been reporting disappointing results in recent days. The Container Store, Family Dollar, and Lumber Liquidators all had the economy to blame. "Consistent with so many of our fellow retailers, we are experiencing a retail 'funk,'" said Container Store CEO Kip Tindell. "While consumers are buying homes and automobiles and even high ticket furniture, most segments of retail are, like us, seeing more challenging sales than we had hoped early in 2014 – so we’re not alone in this." These anecdotes seem to contradict economists' expectations that the U.S. economy and its consumers saw a sharp snapback in activity following the unusually cold winter. However, broader, more reliable economic indicators like rail car loads and unemployment insurance claims reflect an economy that is on the up and up. FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Ramon EspinosaPeople gather outside a government-run car dealership that sells used vehicles in Havana, Cuba, Friday, Jan. 3, 2014.  HAVANA (AP) — It's not your typical used car lot. Just steps from the Florida Straits, dozens of vehicles sit covered in grime and baking in the Caribbean sun. An elderly security guard slumps in a sleepy waiting area, and customers are nowhere to be seen. A price list hanging on the green chain-link fence hints at why: $85,000 for a 6-year-old Peugeot compact; $46,000 for a tiny 2008 Citroen C3 hatchback that would cost less than a third of that in Europe. Elsewhere, a larger, new Peugeot 508 lists for $262,000, five times its price in Britain — and more than a millennium worth of paychecks in Cuba, where wages average about $20 a month. The euphoria that greeted a January reform that lets Cubans buy vehicles from the government without a special permit for the first time in decades turned to anger when the prices were posted. When authorities announced recently that just 50 cars had rolled off the lots of state-run dealerships in the first half-year, bringing in $1.3 million in sales, it was tempting to call the policy a failure. But analysts say it seems the measure was designed to work that way. "At those prices, they obviously didn't want to sell many cars," said Philip Peters, president of the Virginia-based Cuba Research Center. "And they're not." "The only Cuban consumers who can afford it are probably musicians that have got some terrific royalty earnings on their latest record, or people who cashed out fabulously when they sold their family home, and I can't think of anybody else," Peters said. "It's a very, very small sliver of the public that could think of affording such prices, and, as we see, an even smaller sliver that actually decides to do it." AP Photo/Ramon EspinosaSome islanders initially hoped authorities would adjust prices downward when they got a sense of what the market would bear. That happened when cellphones first appeared in Cuba more than a decade ago. However, a recent tour of several dealerships in Havana found the same 400 percent markups as before. Not a single potential client was in sight. Employees refused to speak to reporters, though one confirmed that prices have not budged. There are no publicly available statistics on how many vehicles circulate in Cuba, but visitors to Havana marvel at how empty the streets are for a city of about 2 million people. Jorge Pinon, a Latin America energy expert at the University of Texas, said Cuba's reluctance to sell cars isn't out of fear of insufficient fuel. The country gets tens of thousands of barrels of oil a day on preferential terms from Venezuela. But Pinon noted that a huge infusion of vehicles would test the creaky transportation infrastructure of Cuba, where potholes can go unfilled for years and traffic lights are scarce. Peters suggested officials simply don't see it as a priority and would rather spend what little hard currency available on things like food and industrial inputs. "I think there's only one explanation ... the government does not want to use its foreign exchange reserves to import cars for a retail market," he said. "So therefore the only way that it's worth it to them, to import a car for $20,000 and then sell it retail, is to soak up $50,000 worth of liquidity." In a separate measure in 2011, Cuba legalized private, person-to-person sales of used cars. But those prices started out high and have now shot even higher since January's reform. For years, the clearest path to an automobile in Cuba was to get a permit to buy one by completing an overseas mission for the government. A typical returnee might have cobbled together around $5,000, enough to buy a used car or a cheap Russian or Chinese model under the old pricing schedule. Rodolfo Cid's quest to obtain a car began six years ago when the 55-year-old Construction Ministry engineer agreed to work on a mission in Venezuela. He got a $600 cut of the $3,000 a month that Caracas paid Havana for his services. When Cid returned after three years, he got the letter authorizing him to buy a car and his name went on a waiting list. His plan was to augment his family's meager income by moonlighting as a taxi driver. Two years passed, and in 2013, he left his job at the ministry. But late last year, word emerged that all Cubans would be able to buy beginning in January, putting everyone in the same boat. The permit Cid toiled three years for was suddenly worthless. When the new prices were posted, even the used cars were several times Cid's savings. "They betrayed the trust that people may have in the institutions, even supporters who did what was asked of them," he said. "That amount of money is absurd," Cid added. "I can't afford even the smallest one." ___ Associated Press writer Peter Orsi contributed to this report. ___ Andrea Rodriguez on Twitter: www.twitter.com/ARodriguezAP Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Vasily FedosenkoA bird sits on a solar panel at a solar power station on the outskirts of SimferopolThere is growing evidence that birds flying in the vicinity of a solar thermal power project in California’s Mojave Desert are being injured and even killed either by the solar heat that’s focused with mirrors on its three energy-collecting towers, or by colliding with the mirrors themselves. Yet a task force set up to investigate the problem at the Ivanpah Solar Electric Generating System (ISEGS) has brushed aside several recommendations by the forensics laboratory of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS), according to the minutes of a meeting on the subject obtained by the Los Angeles public television station KCET. The FWS had said wildlife mortality and injury at ISEGS may have been underrepresented because of inadequate searches for injured and dead animals, and it suggested ways to make those searches more thorough. The panel – the Avian &amp; Bat Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) – met in Nipton, Calif., on May 20, where it dismissed several FWS recommendations. ISEGS is a solar thermal power generator that uses arrays of mirrors, called heliostats, that reflect and narrowly focus solar heat to “power towers” filled with water. The focused solar heat reaches a temperature of 800 degrees Fahrenheit, boiling the towers’ water to generate electricity. Dead and injured birds have been found at the plant site, having been burned, evidently by the reflected solar heat, or with other injuries because they evidently failed to recognize the mirrored heliostats as solid surfaces, much the same way that birds crash into windows. The purpose of the May 20 meeting was to assess whether ISEGS presents a hazard to birds flying nearby and, if so, what could be done to mitigate the hazard. The TAC agreed to one FWS proposal, using specially trained dogs to find bird carcasses within the site’s borders. But the minutes of the meeting show that the TAC perfunctorily swept aside other suggestions that would have improved the accuracy of such surveys. One proposal was to search for injured or dead birds outside the site. This was based on the observation of a large bird that had caught fire above ISEGS, become unstable in flight, but did not land until after it glided beyond the perimeter fence. That was rejected because the ecological consulting firm H.T. Harvey found that nearly 95 percent of singed birds were found at the plant, not outside it. ISEGS is only one of three solar power plants in Southern California that are believed to be responsible for killing and injuring birds in flight. The other two are the Genesis Solar Energy Project in the state’s Colorado Desert and the Desert Sunlight Solar Farm, which is still under construction. FREE AppDownload
The 621st Contingency Response Wing/flickrA "mudder" crawls through mud under dangling wires at a race in Pennsylvania. 'Three thousand people around the world have the Tough Mudder logo tattooed on them,’ Will Dean says inside the company’s unassuming London office. ‘I mean, people are not getting British Airways tattooed on them. No disrespect to BA, but we identify with something. We mean something to people.’ Of course, Dean is a touch biased. He is the co-founder and CEO of the endurance event firm. ‘People ask me if Tough Mudder is a cult,’ he continues. ‘Well, that question must mean we are a cult brand. And what is a cult brand?’ He answers his own question. ‘It has values. It has meaning. It stands for something. And if you stand for something, by definition you can’t represent everyone in society. For what we are, that is OK.’ Tough Mudder — now estimated to be worth upwards of $86 million — means an awful lot to an awful lot of people. And not only to those moved to visit a tattoo parlor. By the end of 2014 two million men and women aged 18 and over will have entered a Tough Mudder event (paying $85-170 each, depending on how quickly one signs up) since its inaugural race in Pennsylvania four years ago. About 78% of those two million will manage to haul themselves across the finish line. Which goes some way to explaining Tough Mudder’s appeal. It is hard. Really, really hard. For most of us, running 12 miles is challenge enough. A Tough Mudder course covers 12 miles of relentlessly muddy, hilly terrain. It also hurls sadistic roadblocks in your way. Electroshock Therapy is perhaps the most infamous of the 20 or so obstacles you will face. Here, wet and muddy competitors have to plough across yet more mud to find their way through a curtain of live wires that emit 10,000 volts of electricity. There are lots of wires and lots of shocks. The Arctic Enema sees participants plunge into a dumpster filled with ice water, where they then have to dive down to pass under a plank that crosses the tank to (hopefully) emerge on the other side. At the Funky Monkey you will find a long run of butter- and mud-greased monkey bars at various inclines. Lose your grip (and you will) and you are destined for a pool of icy brown water.  The course is so difficult (‘Probably the toughest event on the planet,’ the firm’s branding shouts), you enter as part of a team. Your team’s support is vital — you won’t complete a Tough Mudder event without accepting a bunk-up here or outstretched arm there — and has helped foster a collaborative spirit that is the very opposite of the solitary nature of marathon running. Despite the strength in numbers, Tough Mudder requires entrants to sign a death waiver. More on this later. Considering the dangers, it is easy to question why anyone would want to sign up for such unrelenting muddy misery. But for Dean and Tough Mudder’s co-founder Guy Livingstone, it is all reasonably simple. ‘It’s more of a mental challenge than a physical one,’ Livingstone says. ‘We live in an increasingly sanitized world where we sit behind computers, we don’t get our hands dirty, and health and safety seems to rule everything. Playing in the mud brings out the inner child in all of us.’ And it is rather different from competing in regular endurance events. ‘It is the antithesis of triathlons and shaving your legs and worrying about your split times,’ Dean says. ‘There is something counter-cultural about it. There are no winners and no losers; it is just about getting through it. An American once told me it’s like communism in that way. Only an American would say that, but I think there’s something in it. Our start line states, “We don’t care about time, we care about your best and what is better than your best.” You also get to be a bit goofy and you can’t take yourself too seriously doing a Tough Mudder event. You are going to fall over and get covered in mud.’ Dean and Livingstone make for an interesting pair. Both 33, they met at 13, boarders at Oundle School in Northamptonshire. At the age of 17, they set up their first company together, selling color-changing nail polishes to various British trade fairs. In 2007, Dean was at Harvard Business School following a five-year spell at the Home Office working in counterterrorism, while Livingstone was growing frustrated with life as a corporate lawyer in the City. ‘I was running a triathlon in the States about six years ago,’ Dean says. ‘The zip on my wetsuit jammed so I turned to the guy next to me and asked him if he could pull on it. He glared back at me, despite the fact it was a two-second ask. As I was cycling around, I thought it was interesting how everything is now so hyper-competitive and we constantly benchmark ourselves against each other. I found marathons and triathlons a bit solitary and boring, but did them at Harvard because I needed something to keep me focused. I was living with another Brit at Harvard and we’d go for runs and start taking people with us. I realized it was a lot more fun doing something with other people. Those two ideas were the genesis of it. I then started looking around in the States and there weren’t any events out there that were tough, about teamwork, and challenging enough that someone with a day job could train and get into reasonable shape to complete it, but not so hard that you have to give up drinking for nine months. I think there’s been a generational shift in terms of the value of experiences over and above any material goods. People our age don’t talk about what kind of car they drive, but I think they do talk an awful lot about what they did on holiday. I also saw us filling the gap in the market for a team-based challenge. Twenty years ago more people were joining football or rugby teams but it’s become harder to commit with work, travel and families. I combined those ideas and began getting excited. Everyone around me said, “Well, this isn’t bad, but fire, electricity, mud and ice water?” People thought I was a little eccentric.’ Meanwhile, Livingstone was cooped up in a London law firm and slowly going mad. ‘Will was looking for someone he knew well and trusted, plus would offer something different,’ Livingstone says. ‘He showed me the business plan he’d written at Harvard the summer before and asked me what I thought. I said it looked fun and exciting and I was up for it. Had I spent any longer as a corporate lawyer my appetite for risk would have been completely bashed out of me.’ The pair headed for Brooklyn, New York, where Dean had decamped after Harvard. As they huddled over laptops for 18 hours a day, sleeping on blow-up beds, momentum built quickly. Perhaps not least thanks to their nationality. ‘It’s helpful to have an English accent,’ Livingstone says. ‘Especially when you’re dealing with different venue owners and commercial partners.’ Exploiting accents may have accelerated Tough Mudder’s journey to the start line but adopting an American attitude towards entrepreneurial endeavors proved vital. Both men feel their achievements highlight the lingering snobbery Britain has towards self-made business success. ‘Entrepreneurship is celebrated in the States,’ Livingstone says. ‘People treat it as the true realization of the American dream. Business leaders in the US are celebrated in a way that they’re not so much in the UK. Richard Branson is loathed as much as he’s liked, for example. It’s interesting to me; here’s someone who’s created an incredibly powerful brand, but people just tend to think he’s a bit arriviste. Americans are often affronted when I explain that most Brits think Branson’s a bit nouveau riche and showy,’ he says, smiling. ‘They say, “This is what’s wrong with your country. The guy’s created so many jobs. He’s a badass!” And I think there’s still a mentality that business people are those who couldn’t make it within a profession. Those Arthur Daley stereotypes still exist.’ Tough Mudder has faced opposition far sterner than lazy stereotypes. Its almost instant popularity — helped significantly through aggressively harnessing the marketing powers of Facebook and Twitter — brought with it controversy. Dean faced allegations of ideas theft, with former British Army soldier Billy Wilson filing a lawsuit against him in February 2010 claiming Dean had taken proprietary information from his own Tough Guy event. Wilson asserted that in July 2008, while at Harvard, Dean had offered to write a report on how to grow Tough Guy’s business in exchange for hands-on experience with the company and access to the firm’s records and financial information. According to Wilson, Dean failed to file a satisfactory report before launching the strikingly similar Tough Mudder. The pair settled their case out of court in 2011, with Dean’s company reportedly paying Wilson $725,000 and both agreeing never to speak publicly about the case. Wilson is not the only rival to speak out against Dean’s tactics. Joe DeSena, the founder of the endurance outfit Spartan Race, spoke to Outside magazine. ‘There’s not a person on this planet I despise more than Will Dean,’ he said. On April 20, 2013, Tough Mudder experienced its first fatality, at an event in Gerrardstown, West Virginia. Witnesses told police 28-year-old Avishek Sengupta died after being submerged in water for between five and 15 minutes during an incident on the Walk the Plank obstacle. A coroner ruled the death an accidental drowning and no criminal charges were pressed against Tough Mudder. ‘It is very difficult to achieve something where you are doing something that is meaningful and worthwhile without exposing yourself or others to some sort of risk,’ Dean says, speaking slowly and carefully when I ask him about Sengupta’s death. ‘If you look at a typical ski resort, skiing-related fatalities compared to that of a marathon are significantly higher. The death rate for triathlons is one in 60,000. We’ve now had 1.5 million people enter a Tough Mudder event. I think we knew very early on that if we were in business for long enough, statistically, something would happen. We live in a world where there are increasing numbers of obese people and depressed teenagers and I really believe in that sense Tough Mudder is a force for good in the world. I am very proud of our safety record. That isn’t a bland corporate line, that is from Will Dean the individual saying I am very happy with how it has worked out.’ After two years of American success, Dean and Livingstone returned home to launch a raft of British events, and further territories are ready to fall. It has contributed more than £600,000 to its official British charity partner, Help for Heroes, and more than $6 million to its US equivalent, the Wounded Warrior Project. A TV show has long been mooted. Rather like a professional football club, they have a growing list of commercial partners, including a multi-million-dollar kit deal (with the fast-rising US brand Under Armour), a mineral water supplier (Volvic), pain relief (Advil) and razor (Bic). A fresh batch of rival firms have arrived, only helping enrich the ‘mud obstacle race’ market (worth an estimated $250 million) for its undisputed leader. ‘We see them as feeder events, frankly,’ Livingstone says. Tough Mudder employees — 150 across three offices in Brooklyn, London and Berlin — enjoy a new unlimited holiday policy (‘We’ve found high achievers take more vacation and those who aren’t performing as well take less,’ Dean says. ‘In America there was a fanfare and high fives when it was announced. In Europe it was, “What’s the catch?” It’s about getting the team to take responsibility.’) and the brand’s revenue has leapt from about £1.3 million in 2010 to nearly £70 million last year. Competitors aren’t just checking Tough Mudder off a bucket list once they have claimed the orange headband that acts as the race medal. They are entering multiple races a year. ‘I believe very strongly in what drives this repeat user base,’ Livingstone says. ‘It’s the power of human touch. On a lot of the obstacles you need to be pushed or pulled over and you definitely need to be supporting other people. People don’t finish a Tough Mudder event and say, “Oh, that was good. I got touched by lots of people,” but there is something very powerful about that tangible sense. It’s very visceral.’ Dean is bolder when discussing Tough Mudder’s influence. ‘People start using your name as a term, like Google, you know? You then realise your brand has become synonymous with the entire industry. I sometimes hear people say, “Yeah, I did a Tough Mudder, but it wasn’t one of your events.” You get mixed emotions but on balance you think it’s a good thing.’ Much like, perhaps, the feeling you would have at a Tough Mudder finish line. Attempting to complete all 16 Tough Mudder UK events this year with his friend Craig Soulsby to raise money for Cancer Research and the Alzheimer’s Society ( justgiving.com/teams/TMFR2014 ) ‘You can’t really train for them. It’s a real psychological and physical mix of demands. I work in construction and I’m in an office most of the time and I get bored. This is something new and exciting. You’re running around like a kid doing these crazy obstacles without a care in the world. The first time I did the Arctic Enema I couldn’t breathe. You body falls into shock and you can’t breathe. You do panic when you first face the obstacles, but you soon learn what to expect. And the atmosphere is incredible. It’s the spirit that exists through the experience that carries people through. It’s team-driven. A lot of the obstacles are just impossible unless you receive assistance. And people do stop and assist. These are people you wouldn’t normally even make eye contact with on a train. It’s pretty powerful.’ An air hostess who set up the Hosties 4 Heroes charity and is running multiple Tough Mudders with her colleagues ( hosties4heroes.co.uk ) ‘You don’t even realise how far you’ve run because it’s so enjoyable. I know I couldn’t do even a half-marathon, it would bore me to tears. People want a purpose and goal to their training. When you’re stuck in the office all day, you want something to look forward to. I don’t know why people do the London Marathon. Obviously it’s something very rewarding that you can check off the bucket list, but no one I’ve ever spoken to has said that they had any fun doing it! They’re hobbling around and crying. But when you finish a Tough Mudder you’re incredibly excited and demanding your pint of cider. And it’s about conquering fears, which people really do because it’s so dangerous. When you sign that death waiver before you run, you do question what you’re doing.’ Ex-SAS, Tough Mudder’s Head of Tough since 2011 ‘I’m the chief fitness officer for Tough Mudder. I put the Tough in Tough Mudder. I get to do a lot of the fun stuff. Coming up with ideas for the obstacles themselves and dreaming up new ideas. The nervous part is trying it all out as I’m one of the first to test a new obstacle, if not the first. But it’s part of my background to always want to push boundaries. Sometimes you do think, “Wow, that might be a little bit too much, or that wall might be a little bit too high to get over,” but it is tremendous fun. It’s the teamwork and camaraderie you develop as well. You get people from all walks of life: military, police, sport clubs, individuals. When you go along and speak to the families, it’s fascinating. You speak to family members there to support relatives and they say, “Oh, I couldn’t do this,” and they’re there in 12 months’ time saying, “My husband or wife has just done that, so why can’t I?” It’s that spirit that I think is missing in the Western world these days.’ Also attempting to run all 16 Tough Mudder UK events in 2014 to raise money for Help for Heroes ( bmycharity.com/Aaronsmudder ) ‘After serving eight years in the US Army it was something that I was always going to find fun, but I was surprised at how hard it is. It’s a mental thing. You have to know that you can do it. You have to have the confidence for it as it’s completely out of the ordinary. I think people were starting to get bored with marathons and Tough Mudder offers such a physicality. Just the running through mud alone is difficult. But then you throw in the water, electricity and fire and it becomes a mental challenge, too. I think people really love getting back to nature. If you live in the city and work in the city, you’re not connecting with nature at all. And then suddenly you’re running through the woods, knee-deep in mud, and walking through creeks.’  FREE AppDownload
In a simply extraordinary presentation titled “Generations X and Y: Facing Economic and Financial Challenges in the Shadow of the Baby Boom,” Bill Emmons does a remarkable job of mining available data to paint a picture of where we are and how we got here.  This deck, in its entirety, is one of the best pieces of research I’ve seen since the beginning of the crisis. I’d like to thank Dr. Emmons for granting me permission to share his work. Herewith some of the highlights and takeaways: Income inequality is clearly visible in the growing gap between mean and median incomes. Federal Reserve Bank Of St. Louis This slide is so telling: Households headed by those over 65 have recovered — and then some — from the recession. Not so all the younger cohorts: Federal Reserve Bank Of St. Louis Here’s another very telling slide, reflecting the fact that it’s not so much that those with college degrees are doing particularly well, it’s that everyone else is doing significantly worse. This is a stunner: Federal Reserve Bank Of St. Louis   Look what happened to the mean wealth of the under-40 cohort. Is it any wonder they’re living in Mom and Dad’s basement, not fueling household formation, and not spending money like drunken sailors? Federal Reserve Bank Of St. Louis Why did they lose so much? Because they were loaded up with too much house, and when the bubble burst, it crushed them: Federal Reserve Bank Of St. Louis Younger families had also amassed too much debt: Federal Reserve Bank Of St. Louis Put it all together and, as this slide states: “Homeownership Rates Are Plunging Among the Non-Elderly”: Federal Reserve Bank Of St. Louis The picture going forward is not a particularly happy one: Federal Reserve Bank Of St. Louis The medicine might not taste good, but this is what it might take to improve the outlook: Federal Reserve Bank Of St. Louis And there are some reasons to be hopeful: Federal Reserve Bank Of St. Louis FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Regis Duvignau Markets are up across Europe early Friday.  Britain's FTSE 100 is up 0.25%. France's CAC 40 is up 0.55%. Germany's DAX is up 0.21%. Spain's IBEX is up 1.18%. Italy's FTSE MIB is up 1.32%. Markets are only recovering some of Thursday's losses. U.S. futures are also drifting higher with Dow futures up 35 points and S&amp;P 500 futures up 4 points. There's no major market-moving U.S. economic data scheduled for release today. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsRail traffic and jobless claims continued to improve in the latest week pointing to positive signs for the economy.  These are two of the better macro indicators we see with some regularity so while this obviously doesn’t mean that everything is improving, it certainly doesn’t look to be consistent with broad economic deterioration.  In fact, the strength in the last few employment reports appears totally consistent with the improvement seen in jobless claims in particular. The latest in rail traffic showed continued double digit growth and brought the 12 week moving average in traffic to 7.5%  (via AAR): “The Association of American Railroads (AAR) today reported increased U.S. rail traffic for the week ending July 5, 2014 with 270,731 total carloads, up 9.4 percent compared with the same week last year. Total U.S. weekly intermodal volume was 227,097 units, up 10.5 percent compared with the same week last year. Total combined U.S. weekly rail traffic was 497,828 carloads and intermodal units, up 9.9 percent compared with the same week last year.” Pragmatic Capitalism Meanwhile, the four week average in jobless claims dipped to a new recovery low of 2.57 million: Pragmatic Capitalism We’re not back to full strength and certainly not operating at full capacity, but given the depth of the recession we’ve come out of the state of the economy deserves a bit more praise than its getting. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA man uses an automated teller machine of Portuguese bank Banco Espirito Santo in downtown LisbonLISBON/LONDON (Reuters) - Banco Espirito Santo steadied market jitters about its vulnerability to the troubled business empire of its founding family on Friday but investors are still in the dark about the size of any potential losses. Portugal's largest listed bank is at the center of a firestorm after concerns about its links to a web of companies controlled by the powerful Espirito Santo clan sparked a rout in global markets this week, prompting some European companies to pull fundraisings and reviving memories of the region's debt crisis. Under pressure to clarify its position and stop the situation spiraling out of control, BES released a statement in the early hours of Friday saying that it had exposures worth 1.15 billion euros and believed it had enough reserves to absorb any losses. BES said it had 2.1 billion euros in capital above minimum regulatory requirements as of March 31. Since then, it has raised a further 1 billion via a rights issue. The move stabilized markets but shares in the bank are still suspended and sentiment both for it and the wider euro zone remain cautious as investors await further updates and any signs that BES's woes will spread across Europe. While BES gave the most detailed breakdown yet of its exposure to other Espirito Santo group companies it said that it had to wait for the restructuring plan of the Espirito Santo Group, its largest shareholder, before it can assess the potential losses. The restructuring is expected soon. "Although we welcome the latest disclosure from BES which goes some-way to enhancing the transparency on its exposure to the wider Espirito group, we still think that the situation facing the bank remains precarious given the opacity around its parent’s capital shortfall and the likely restructuring approach," Ciaran Callaghan, a credit analyst at Merrion Stockbrokers in Dublin, said in a note. Shares in the bank plunged more than 17 percent to their lowest price in a year on Thursday before Portugal's stock market regulator halted trading pending the statement from the bank. European markets recovered some of their composure edging higher on Friday with Portugal's PSI index up nearly 2 percent. The country's sovereign and corporate debt also made up lost ground with yields on 10-year sovereign paper down 6 basis points (bps) after losing 20 bps on Thursday. Bond yields move in the opposite direction to their price. BES's junior debt recovered much of Thursday's losses and its senior unsecured bonds fared even better, trading up 5 basis points after falling 2 bps on Thursday. REUTERS/Jose Manuel RibeiroA window of the headquarters of Portuguese bank Banco Espirito Santo in LisbonPERNICIOUS LINKS Banco Espirito Santo has been under scrutiny for weeks after reporting "material irregularities" at a holding company of the Espirito Santo family, which founded the bank in the 19th Century. The scandal marks a slide in fortune for a bank viewed as one of the most resilient lenders in Portugal. BES was the only one of the top listed banks in Portugal not to receive an injection of state capital during the country's sovereign debt crisis. Phoebus Theologites, chief investment officer at SteppenWolf Capital, said there was little risk of contagion for the rest of the euro zone for now, and Portugal’s central bank could engineer a merger if it felt this could help. “The Portuguese central bank will stabilize the situation and even if the worst should come to pass, a merger will take care of the problem,” he said. “This correction only serves as a reminder that nothing is yet fixed in the euro zone and that, no matter how much money the ECB ends up printing, it will not jump-start the euro zone’s economies because the euro zone’s troubled banks will need to absorb much of this money for their balance sheets.” “But this does not mean we will get contagion or a crash.” BES raised around one billion euros in a rights issue last month. That saw the Espirito Santo family lose control of the bank and prompted its patriarch, Ricardo Espirito Santo Salgado, to step down as the bank's chief. The family is still the bank's largest shareholder with a 25 percent stake in the bank held via a holding company, the Espirito Santo Financial Group (ESFG), whose interests range from insurance to hotels and property. ESFG asked for its shares to be suspended on Thursday due to "material difficulties" at its own largest shareholder, Espirito Santo International (ESI). Further detail on BES's financial situation will be given on July 25 when the bank releases its half-year results. Shareholders will meet six days later to vote on a new chief executive and new directors, after family members said they would step down from the bank's 25-man board.   (Writing by Carmel Crimmins; Additional reporting by Aimee Donnellan and Sudip Kar-Gupta in London; Editing by Giles Elgood) FREE AppDownload
An example of the volatility of one year of earnings over the past 14 years would be that “reported earnings” (or GAAP—Generally Accepted Accounting Principles) were $50.00 in 2000, $24.69 in 2001 and came back to $48.74 in 2004.  The earnings “estimates” over that period of time also had tremendous volatility and it boiled down to almost a guess.  So how could you possibly base an intelligent investment decision during that time?  Also earnings were $66.18 in 2007, $14.88 in 2008, and $50.97 in 2009.  Earnings are among the most mean-reverting statistics in investing, and therefore there has to be a better way of determining the “true” earnings.  Earnings always return to the trend and the long term trend of earnings growth over time has consistently averaged about 6% despite the year-to-year volatility. The idea of smoothing earnings over a period of more than a single year was first proposed by Graham and Dodd in their classic book “Security Analysis” published in the early 1930’s.  Cyclically—smoothed earnings have proven to be a much more accurate predictor of long-term market returns than any method that uses earnings over the past year or following year.  In fact, we used this method in late 1999 when we published a report forecasting that the normalized S&amp;P 500 would be about 1260 ten years from then.  That was significantly below the then prevailing price.  It was a projection we made near the peak of the dot-com bubble.  Almost everybody thought the forecast was crazy although it eventually proved to be highly accurate. What we do to smooth reported S&amp;P 500 earnings over a longer period of time is to calculate an average of the past 9 years (which usually includes at least one and often two business cycles) .  We then take that average of the 9 years and place it in the 5th year, the exact mid-point of the 9 years.  We then increase that number by 6% per year to the last of the nine-year period and use that number as our normalized earnings for the most current period.  Using that method our normalized earnings for the 12 months ended March 2014 is $90. Then we divide the S&amp;P 500 level of 1970 by the normalized earnings of $89 and come up with a PE of about 22..  This represents a very expensive level for the stock market, and was exceeded only in 1929, 2000 and 2007.  There are others in the investment community that also normalizes earnings such as Robert Shiller, John Hussman, and Ned Davis.  They each actually use a longer time frame than we do, but each of them comes to the same conclusion that the stock market with normalized earnings is expensive and overvalued.  Note: From this point, we will issue our comments on the first Thursday of every month, rather than every Thursday, although we may sometimes do additional commentary when it is appropriate. FREE AppDownload
The US housing market remains sluggish, as wages, at least at the national level, have not kept up with the recent price appreciation (see post). The reason for these higher prices is that housing inventories remain tight, particularly in the more desirable areas. A great deal of the inventory has been picked up by "cash buyers" that include domestic and foreign investors (including professional investment firms). These investors accounted for over 40% of the homebuyers in the first half of 2014. The hope is that with this tight inventory levels we will see more residential construction, even if a great deal of it will go to meet rental housing demand. The recent recovery in lumber futures suggests that construction, which has stalled recently, may be improving again.   Another indicator suggests that US homeowners are taking advantage of the tight inventory. The prepayment speeds on 30Y FNMA MBS securities with low coupon have picked up again. The 2.5% and 3% 30Y MBS contain mortgage pools of loans with interest that is significantly below current mortgage rates. Therefore prepayments in these pools mean that these homeowners are selling their homes (nobody would want to refinance into a higher rate mortgage). Sales were expected to pick up this time of the year, but some analysts have been a bit surprised at how quickly prepayment speeds recovered.   Both of these signs point to improving activity in the US housing market. It remains to be seen however whether this is sustainable or simply a temporary response to lower mortgage rates. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersJapan's Economics Minister Amari talks during a Thomson Reuters Newsmaker event in TokyoTOKYO (Reuters) - Japanese Economics Minister Akira Amari said on Friday it was premature for the Bank of Japan to consider an exit strategy from its massive stimulus program as the economy has only just begun emerging from 15 years of grinding deflation. On whether the BOJ should consider easing monetary policy further, Amari said that was a decision the central bank ought to make based on whether Japan's economy was heading towards the bank's 2 percent inflation target on schedule. "The BOJ has expressed strong determination that it won't hesitate to take further action if (the timing for meeting the target) is not on schedule," Amari said in an interview at a Reuters Newsmaker event. "If the BOJ judges that it's not on schedule, I think the central bank will decide on its own (to act)," he said. Amari said that while consumer inflation is accelerating steadily, it is too early to formally declare that Japan is sustainably out of deflation. "The BOJ is striving to achieve 2 percent inflation in roughly two years. We can't declare that deflation has been eradicated unless inflation stays at that level and there are assurances it won't ease (back to deflation) even if the economy is hit by some external shocks," Amari said. Many private economists do not expect inflation will reach such a level within the BOJ's target timeframe. The central bank has stood pat since deploying an intense burst of monetary stimulus in April last year, when it pledged to double base money via aggressive asset purchases to accelerate inflation to 2 percent in roughly two years. It is expected to hold policy steady at its rate review next week. With consumer inflation having exceeded the half-way mark of the price target, some market players are starting to think the BOJ's next policy move could be a withdrawal, not an expansion, of its quantitative easing (QE) program.   (Additional reporting by Yuko Yoshikawa and Yonggi Kang; Editing by Edmund Klamann &amp; Kim Coghill) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Thomas PeterGerman Chancellor Angela Merkel during a news conference in Berlin on July 19.Good morning! Here's what people will be talking about on Friday.  1. President Barack Obama said the U.S. is "prepared to broker a ceasefire between Israel and Palestinian militants in Gaza," the BBC reports. Israel's Gaza offensive, Operation Protective Edge, is now in its fourth day as Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu plans to step up naval and air strikes on Hamas-controlled territories.  2. The CIA station chief in Berlin was asked to leave Germany following the exposure of two German officials suspected of spying for the U.S.  3. A Mississippi toddler who was thought to have been cured of HIV with an aggressive drug treatment at birth now shows signs of the virus in her blood, health officials said Thursday. The news is a major blow to to hopes for developing treatments that prevent AIDS.  4. Reports that the parent company of the second-largest bank in Portugal, Banco Espirito Santo, was struggling to make debt payments sent markets tumbling. "The event has hit European financials like a torpedo and has revived investors' darkest nightmares about Europe, Peter Garnry, the head of equity strategy a Saxo Bank, told The Times. 5. Amazon has asked the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) for permission to start testing its drones for delivering packages to customers at rapid speed. The FAA currently bans the use of unmanned aircraft for commercial purposes. 6. CNBC's host of "The Profit," Marcus Lemonis, and a group of investors said they have plans to revive Crumbs Bake Shop. The announcement comes less than a week after the ailing cupcake chain said it was closing all of its shops nationwide due to financial troubles. 7. The Obama administration said that U.S. border control agencies would run out money by August or September if congress did not pass a $3.7 billion funding request. 9. China's central bank is investigating a state media report alleging that the Bank of China helped clients launder money to overseas accounts. The media outlet claims that the bank "circumvented the rules by helping customers transfer unlimited amounts of yuan overseas," says Bloomberg, even though the country's "foreign-exchange rules cap the maximum amount of yuan that individuals are allowed to convert into other currencies at $50,000 each year and ban them from transferring yuan abroad directly." 10. Eight children and three others were killed in a school bus crash in China's southern Hunan province. The tragedy in rural China is "the latest in a string of traffic accidents that have fueled public anger over unsafe transport for school children," says Reuters. And finally... The world's tallest water slide called "Verruckt" (meaning "insane" in German) is now open for business at Schlitterbahn Waterpark in Kansas City. Any takers? FREE AppDownload
