Overstock.com has become the first major online shopping retailer to commit to accepting the digital currency bitcoin as payment in exchange for any of our million products. We are doing this for both business and philosophical reasons. First, the business reasons: There are large numbers of holders of bitcoin who are eager to patronize firms that will accept this form of payment, but so far, their options have been limited. I believe that by being the first major online retailer to accept bitcoin, we will tap into a significant group of loyal consumers, and as a result our share of the overall market will grow. In addition, the cost of carrying out credit-card transactions is roughly 2 percent. Given that our net margin is also approaching 2 percent, the avoidance of such fees will make bitcoin sales that much more profitable. (Read more: Buzzfeed COO: How I mined for bitcoins) And, while it's true that the value of bitcoin has proven more volatile than that of gold, this will not be a risk to Overstock.com; we will either immediately convert bitcoin to dollars or hedge our bitcoin risk through bitcoin-dollar derivatives (should such a market develop). Now, the philosophical reasons: I believe limited government is a better business model for our nation than is unlimited government (and limited government has the additional benefit of being consistent with our Constitution). Among the many vices of authoritarianism is that it can sustain itself only by offering more things to more people than it can actually deliver, and one way it makes up the difference is by debasing its currency. (Read more: Bitcoin breaks $1,000 after Zynga opts in) People who share my belief in limited government often favor gold-back money, because for millennia, mankind's stock of gold has increased at a rate of 2-3 percent per year, and no government mandarin has the power to will additional gold into existence. As a digital currency, bitcoin is, of course, suited to online transactions. In addition, however, it possesses those key virtues of gold: Bitcoin is mathematically constrained such that there can be no more than 21 million (infinitely divisible) units, and the supply will grow in a predictable manner. (Read more: Want to snag a rich guy? Accept bitcoins) I am agnostic regarding the future value of bitcoin. I merely feel bitcoin is a viable medium of exchange that Overstock.com should embrace to better serve our customers, and that the U.S. should embrace to create a robust, viable alternative to our current monetary institutions. — By Patrick M. Byrne — Patrick M. Byrne is chairman and CEO of online retailer Overstock.com. Follow him on Twitter @overstockceo. (Read more: Here's what should bolster bitcoin in 2014) FREE AppDownload
TOKYO (Reuters) - Shares in Nintendo Co Ltd jumped as much as 6 percent to a 2-1/2 year high on Wednesday after China temporarily lifted a 14-year-old ban on selling video game consoles. The move could pave the way for Nintendo, Sony Corp and Microsoft Corp to enter the world's third-largest video game market in terms of revenue. "Nintendo hasn't had a catalyst for a long time, so if it can revive (via) the Chinese consumer market then it would be positive," a Tokyo-based trader said. However, Sony shares slipped 0.3 percent to 1,794 yen. The trader said this reflected the fact that Sony has several lines of business, not just game consoles. Sony also rallied more than Nintendo in 2013, climbing 91 percent to Nintendo's 55 percent. The benchmark Nikkei jumped 57 percent last year. The trader also said Nintendo's stock was benefiting from a weaker yen on Wednesday. The yen was quoted at 104.69 yen to the dollar, not far from a more than five-year high of 105.45 yen set on January 2. Nintendo was the ninth-most traded stock on the main board. (Reporting by Dominic Lau; Editing by Michael Perry and Edwina Gibbs) FREE AppDownload
During a presentation earlier today, Nuveen's Bob Doll showed this disturbing chart that we've seen before. It shows the annualized returns of various asset classes over the 20 year period ending 2011. It also includes inflation during that time. It also includes the average investor's investment returns, which are lower than everything else on the chart. Doll noted that investors unfortunately have the tendency to move in and out of the market at all of the wrong times. (See also Gerard Minack's work.) "Amidst difficult financial times, emotional instincts often drive investors to take actions that make no rational sense but make perfect emotional sense," said BlackRock back in 2012. "Psychological factors such as fear often translate into poor timing of buys and sells." It's good reminder to think long-term and be patient. Nuveen Asset Management FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ALERTNET/Nita BhallaFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Four Ways To Avoid Financial Minefields In Your Youth (WealthManagement.com)  We all do things in our youth that we wish we could do differently, especially when it comes to our finances. Chris Taylor at WealthManagement.com points out how young people can avoid "financial minefields." 1. Don't try and pick individual stocks, make low-cost index funds and ETFs the core of your portfolio. 2. Spend on things that can help further your career like a new computer language or a degree that would make sense in your field. 3. "When crunching housing costs, don't use the wrong math." Remember to factor in repair costs, fees, taxes, commission you'd have to pay an agent when you sell. 4. Set up a certain amount that is directly deposited in your savings account and don't give yourself a choice.   Investors Should Stop Ignoring Emerging Market Value Stocks (AllianceBernstein Blog)  As developed markets rebounded in the past year and a half, emerging markets have been slower to respond to improving activity in developed markets. "Nervous EM investors have been slow to abandon the relative safety of predictable, fundamentally stable stocks, while shunning riskier stocks—regardless of valuation," writes Henry S. D'Auria of AllianceBernstein.  "This indifference to value seems pretty risky to us, and carries considerable opportunity costs, especially if developing economies gain a firmer footing next year as we expect. Why? Because, after prolonged underperformance, long-neglected high-beta, cyclically sensitive stocks now dominate the value realm, making it far more sensitive than usual to broad EM economic trends, which themselves are more sensitive to broad global economic developments."  A New Survey Shows That The Financial Advisor Industry Needs More Minority Advisors (FA Mag)   An Edward Jones survey has found that both clients and firms would stand to benefit from minority advisors. Seventy-nine percent of the African-American and Hispanic respondents said it would be in the best interest of the firm. While 76% said it would also be in the best interest of the client to have more diversity. "Diversity is not just the right thing to do, it's a business imperative," Jesse Abercrombie, an Edward Jones financial advisor said. "We have always supported diversity, but we are now increasing recruiting and marketing efforts to hire more diverse advisors to better reflect our growing client base." Individual Investor Stock Allocation Hits Its Highest Level Since The Crisis (Pragmatic Capitalism)  The latest American Association of Individual Investors (AAII) survey showed that demand for stocks had hit a new high, with a 68% allocation, up from 64% in November. The 68% level is the highest since July 2007, right before the S&amp;P 500 peaked. Meanwhile, demand for cash and bonds were at new lows, with bond holdings down to 15% and cash holdings down to 16.5%. ORCAM Wall Street's Biggest Bear In 2013 Just Published Her 2014 Outlook, And It's Wild (Business Insider)  Well Fargo's Gina Martin Adams was the most bearish strategist on Wall Street last year, with a 1440 year-end S&amp;P 500 target. The index closed at 1848. Now, even as other strategists are raising their targets, she has a 2014 S&amp;P 500 year-end target of 1850, the lowest on Wall Street. Adams says she "wouldn’t be surprised to see the index trade as high as 2,100 and as low as 1,500 at some stage throughout the year." She also thinks 2014 will "be filled with both thrills and chills for equity investors, offering both bulls and bears something to feast on." FREE AppDownload
Courtesy of Chen Guangbiao As he geared up to sing a song he had apparently authored ("My Chinese Dream") — karaoke style — to a few dozen reporters in a conference at a hotel on Central Park South, one thing about this eccentric Chinese millionaire seemed clear — Chen Guangbiao isn't afraid of the limelight. "Since you all have equipment in your hands, you don't have to applaud for me," Chen said through an interpreter as the song started. Chen was almost unknown in New York until two weeks ago, though he had a big reputation in China. Reportedly one of the 400 richest people in China, the recycling magnate claims to be the No. 1 philanthropist in the country; Chen was reportedly worth $740 million in 2012, but he has pledged to give away most, if not all, of his wealth before his death, inspired by Bill Gates' "Giving Pledge." Since Chen offered to buy The New York Times, however, he is a star in the Big Apple. Chen made the announcement at the end of last year, explaining that he was working with an unnamed Hong Kong financier and due to meet with a "leading shareholder" in New York in early 2014 to discuss a deal. Chen is an eccentric man by any standards — he owns at least one lime green suit — and his announcement was met with shock. While The New York Times announced that they have "no information" about negotiations with Chen, the millionaire shot back with an op-ed in the Chinese state newspaper Global Times. "I have said as long as the price is reasonable," Chen wrote, "There is nothing that cannot be bought." Officially, the press conference today wasn't devoted to The New York Times rumors, though it did touch on it. Even so, it was memorable in its own right — and may showcase some of the problems Chen might have if he truly wants to get in on The New York Times. After his song, Chen explained why he was here. He brought out a mother and daughter, Hao Huijun and Chen Guo, who wore hats and veils as they walked up to the stage. Chen carefully removed their veils to show the disfiguring marks to their faces. The pair had been severely burned more than ten years ago, he explained, and now Chen was going to pay millions of dollars for them both to have reconstructive surgery in New York. That sounds incredibly nice, of course, but the second Chen opened the floor for questions, things got nasty. You see, Hao and Chen were injured during a 2001 self-immolation protest when they were part of the spiritual movement Falun Gong, banned in China since 1999. While it rarely makes headlines abroad, the Falun Gong situation is extremely controversial within China and the Chinese diaspora, and the 2001 self-immolation case has been no different — many have suggested that the Chinese government may have actually played a role in the high-profile protest in a bid to discredit Falun Gong. At the press conference, the questions bore a remarkably aggressive tone — many of the reporters were from media outlets skeptical of the Chinese government, including the Falun Gong-linked New Tang Dynasty Television and the Epoch Times. At one point a man asking a question (who later turned out to be from the World Organization to Investigate the Persecution of Falun Gong) grew so irate during his questioning that when the microphone was taken away from him, he carried on speaking — virtually shouting. The session abruptly ended after a handful of questions, and after he left, some of those gathered complained that Chen was here as part of a pro-Communist Party publicity stunt. In a relatively modest hotel suite upstairs after the press conference, Chen told Business Insider that he had not been anticipating the controversy, but he was not concerned. He said that Hao and Chen had been writing to him for years. "As the No. 1 Chinese philanthropist, I felt obligated to help them," he explained. "This is my honest thinking." Chen went on to say he had helped over two million people with his philanthropy and had donated money after natural disasters such as the 2010 Japanese Tsunami or the Haitian earthquake from the same year. When asked what lies behind his style of charity, however — a style which he himself as dubbed "flashy philanthrophy" — Chen immediately distanced himself from the Chinese state. "There is nothing related to the government," he said."I was raised up as a poor child, when I was four years old my older brother and sister starved to death. Because of my high profile over the past few years, the government officials, the rich people, have not liked to interact with me. Chinese people like to do things with a low profile, they do not like to expose their wealth. Wealthy people and government officials, they keep a distance from me." Chen says he sees himself as different from other wealthy Chinese businessmen. "I never get involved in drinking, smoking, or playing poker games," he explains, before waving his large Samsung phone. "If anyone ever finds me doing these things, with proof of photograph, I will reward this person 10,000 RMB [approximately $1,600]." His "flashy philanthropy" was a tactic, he explained, to get other wealthy Chinese businessmen to donate their own fortunes. "My reputation as a high-profile philanthropist will, I hope, give some pressure to other rich people," Chen explains, before adding that the pressure on him is a burden. "Even though I am smiling, I have some suffering in my heart. How can no one extend their help to me since I have helped so many other people?" Chen seems sincere when he says stuff like this, and he genuinely puts a lot of effort (and money) into charity work and environmentalism. He says he wants to bring this to America, proposing to use his environmental demolition methods to San Francisco to help demolish the old Bay Bridge (and to donate all his net profits to charity, 60% within America). Still, Chen does have a remarkable confidence that may verge on egomania — if he had a worse haircut he might come across as a Chinese Donald Trump. As unlikely as the purchase might be, does America want its paper of record to be owned by a man whose nine titles on his English-business card include "Most Influential Person of China" and "China Moral Leader"? When I asked Chen how he'd help The New York Times, he argued that his Times bid had already helped the paper gain more name recognition amongst China's 1.3 billion citizens. How would he change the country's coverage of China? I pressed him on the issue of the islands in the East China Sea, known alternatively as the Diaoyu/Senkaku islands, at the center of a simmering conflict between China and Japan. Chen clearly feels strongly about them — he took an advertisement in The Times last year that called on the U.S. to accept the islands as Chinese territory. Chen refused to get drawn into specifics, instead replying with the Chinese idiom: "Seek truth with facts." The saying apparently dates back to the Han Dynasty, but Chen attributed it to the person who popularized it in the 20th century: Mao Zedong. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Sue OgrockiI gotta rethink my strategy.During a presentation this morning, Nuveen's chief equity strategist Bob Doll offered his longer-term forecasts alongside his predictions for 2014.  Here are his five long-term themes: That last bullet is concerning for pension fund managers and anyone else investing for retirement with set financial goals and a target date in mind. Doll thinks 6% to 8% average annual returns in the U.S. stock market over the next decade are likely considering the massive run-up we've seen in recent years. More and more, experts are telling us that the days of 10%+ average annual returns in the stock market are behind us. Or at least they're a long way's off. "[S]tocks are currently at levels that we estimate will provide roughly zero nominal total returns over the next 7-10 years, with historically adequate long-term returns thereafter," said John Hussman of Hussman Funds. And Hussman isn't even the most bearish. "Fair value for the S&amp;P 500 is about 1100 and the expected return is -1.3% per year for the next seven years after inflation," said GMO's Ben Inker in November. "For those interested in the broader U.S. stock market, our forecast for the Wilshire 5000 is a bit worse, at -2.0%, due to the fact that small cap valuations are even more elevated than those for large caps." Many point to Robert Shiller's legendary cyclically-adjusted price-earnings (CAPE) ratio to support their argument for sub-par returns. CAPE is calculated by taking the S&amp;P 500 and dividing it by the average of ten years worth of earnings.  If the ratio is above the long-term average of around 16x, the stock market is considered expensive. Currently, CAPE is way above it's long-term mean at 25.4x. But keep in mind that Doll, Hussman, and Inker are not saying that they expect each upcoming year to deliver the same low returns. They're all talking about average returns. "[T]oday’s valuations for the U.S. stock market are a temporary issue that will be resolved either through a relatively quick bear market or a longer period of more or less flat returns – as the last 13 years, for all of their periodic excitement, have turned out to be," said Inker. God forbid we see the stock market crash. But in the frame work of these long-term forecasts, a crash would offer the attractive entry point that would lead to much better average annual returns. "Crashes create opportunity and kings will be made during the next one," said Reformed Broker Josh Brown. For your reference, here are Doll's long-term market forecasts. Nuveen Asset ManagementSource: MRB Partners, Nuveen Asset Management. The forecast data reflects the opinion of the author, Bob Doll, and not the firm. The information provided herein is not intended to be a forecast or guarantee of future events or results. It is not a recommendation to buy or sell any specific securities and should not be considered investment advice of any kind. Investing in securities involves risk of loss that clients should be prepared to bear. There is no assurance that an investment will provide positive performance over any period of time. Past performance is no guarantee of future results and different periods and market conditions may result in significantly different outcomes. FREE AppDownload
Ruby Tuesday (RT) shares are down about 13% in 2 days. The casual dining restaurant chain’s stock has slipped from $7.03 to $6.12 as they approach their FQ2’2014 earnings release scheduled for after the market closes on Wednesday, January 8th. Last year was a phenomenal year across the board for US equities but RT somehow managed to drop 14%. In their previous 2 earnings releases Ruby Tuesday has missed analyst expectations for profit and revenue by wide margins, and analysts are expecting more of the same Wednesday. The information below is derived from data submitted to the Estimize platform by a set of Buy Side and Independent analyst contributors. Estimize The green line which represents Ruby Tuesday’s profit over the past 2 years has missed the Wall Street consensus in 7 of the past 8 quarters and has never beaten it. Over the same 2 years Ruby Tuesday has also experienced year over year profit shrinkage in pretty much every quarter.Estimize These deteriorating fundamentals, especially in the previous 2 quarters, have had big implications to the company’s stock price. Estimize The two big red candles at the far right represent the drops in the past 2 trading days. The stock is selling off going into the report, analysts are expecting RT to report a loss and investors don’t want to be holding this stock when the quarterly financial results are announced. At Estimize we crowd-source earnings expectations from buy-side and independent analysts. By tapping into a wider range of contributors including hedge-fund analysts, asset managers, students, and non professional investors the Estimize community has built a data set that is up to 69.5% more accurate than Wall Street, but more importantly it does a better job of representing the market’s actual expectations. While some contributors are prominent hedge funds, we accept estimates from anyone because we are able to measure so well statistically. Algorithms developed by our deep quantitative research look at correlations between analyst track records and tendencies as they relate to future accuracy to create confidence ratings for all estimates, so its impossible to screw up the data set without a history of precision. Estimize If you look at the table for this quarter, Wall Street is expecting -21c EPS while the Estimize community consensus is forecasting -23c. This differential is often an indicator that earnings expectations may not have been priced into the market. As indicated by the Estimize consensus it’s clear that the market is expecting Ruby Tuesday to report a bad quarter. A negative differential between the Estimize consensus and Wall Street expectations has been shown by our quantitative research team to be associated with a downward drift in stock price over the 3 days going into the report if you benchmark against the market. That’s exactly what we are seeing here with Ruby Tuesday, with deteriorating fundamentals on top of it. For more information our quantitative research and strategies hedge funds are using to leverage the Estimize data set check out our whitepaper. Head over to Estimize to follow analyst expectations and create your own account for free to make estimates and see how you stack up to Wall Street. FREE AppDownload
The Air Force has released a memo stating that they support HP's claim that Autonomy was cooking its books before HP bought it for $11 billion, if the evidence confirms it. As you might recall, less than a year later after that acquisition, HP wrote off $8.8 billion and alleged that it was duped into paying too much because Autonomy had improperly inflated its revenues and margins. HP called it fraud, named a whole bunch of ways that it believed Autonomy had done this, and asked for investigations by the authorities. The situation was a major embarrassment for HP and led to a number of its board members resigning. Autonomy's founder, Mike Lynch, has consistently and vehemently denied all wrongdoing, claiming that HP's own mismanagement of Autonomy after the purchase is what caused the write-down, he told Business Insider. Investigations in the U.S. and the U.K. are still pending. Enter the Air Force. It was conducting an investigation into the business practices of a government contractor, MicroTech, after The Washington Post wrote a series of articles about MicroTech. Those stories helped spur investigations of the contractor by a couple of Congressional committees, the Small Business Administration, and the Air Force. At issue was how MicroTech was receiving big government contracts designated for small businesses run by disabled vets. MicroTech had been an Autonomy reseller. In looking into MicroTech, the Air Force obtained HP's internal investigation into Autonomy, it said. The Air Force concluded that MicroTech helped Autonomy inflate revenue numbers, it said in a 5-page letter obtained by Business Insider. The Air Force sided with HP writing: From 2007-2011, former Autonomy senior management engaged in numerous accounting and sales practices designed to deceive analysts, investors, and potential purchasers into believing that Autonomy could, and would continue, [to] generate margins and revenues that it could not ultimately sustain due to such practices. The Air Force letter named several ways that Autonomy allegedly inflated its revenues and margins, a list that mirrors what HP said when it made the initial allegations of fraud: not properly booking hardware sales, hosting agreements, and deals with resellers. For instance, the Air Force letter discussed one transaction between Autonomy and MicroTech regarding an $11 million deal. Autonomy recognized $11 million in revenue on its books. Seven months later, MicroTech had paid only $500,000. An auditor questioned why MicroTech owed Autonomy so much money. After that, Autonomy recorded a deal with MicroTech to create an "Advanced Technology Innovation Center" and wired MicroTech $9.6 million to pay for the new center, the letter says. "MicroTech subsequently wired $9.6 million back to Autonomy to pay for outstanding MicroTech receivables," the Air Force letter says. In other words, the letter alleges the $9.6 million MicroTech paid Autonomy didn't come from a customer, but came from Autonomy itself. Again, Lynch and his spokespeople deny wrongdoing, saying that HP doesn't understand International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). A blog post on Lynch's website states: The USAF letter cites allegations made against the Autonomy management team by Hewlett Packard on 20th November 2012 as the basis for this review. ...We strongly reject HP’s allegations. ... The few examples seen to date in support of its allegations, such as those cited in the USAF letter, show that HP appears to have had a fundamental misunderstanding of IFRS accounting practices, and we vehemently deny anything improper. An HP spokesperson responded via email: It is patently ridiculous to continue to claim that these very serious allegations, currently the subject of investigation by both the U.S. Department of Justice and the UK's Serious Fraud Office, are merely the result of a 'misunderstanding' in the difference between US GAAP and IFRS accounting rules. We reached out to MicroTech for comment and will update if we hear back. FREE AppDownload
The U.S. stock market in 2013 was, quite literally, a perfect 10. "All ten sectors of the S&amp;P posted double-digit gains on a total return basis last year—a rare market occurrence considering that it has been nearly 20 years since all 10 sectors of the S&amp;P registered annual gains of 10% or more," writes U.S. Trust's chief market strategist Joseph Quinlan. "2013 was a vintage year for U.S. equities," Quinlan says. The "Perfect 10" was last achieved in 1995 "following the equity blood bath in 1994 when the Federal Reserve brutally raised the Fed Funds rate six times." In 2003 and 2009, the S&amp;P had nine out of 10 sectors notch double-digit gains.  Check out the chart from U.S. Trust: U.S. Trust So, what does this mean? "From time to time, investor euphoria toward a narrow group of stocks can put the broad market at risk," said RBC Capital's Jonathan Golub in November. "This was clearly the case in the late 1990s with Technology stocks." "Investors have recently raised concerns about the performance, and bubble-like behavior, of a narrow group of stocks (i.e., Internet and Biotech names, Amazon, Chipotle)," he added. "However, when we look at the performance dispersion across the S&amp;P 500, the market’s behavior seems quite normal." FREE AppDownload
Adam Pretty/Getty ImagesStocks recovered some of their beginning-of-the-year losses. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
Robert Hensley/FlickrThe American economy is being reshaped along the booming industries of technology and energy, according to new rankings of America’s Best Performing Cities by the Milken Institute. In the 2013 rankings, thirteen cities defined by Milken as tech hubs made it into the top 25, while nine could attribute their impressive growth to the energy industry, notably the shale and natural gas renaissance.  Milken's ranking is based on data from both long- and short-term growth in jobs, wages, salaries, and technological output. FREE AppDownload
REUTERSEarlier today, Nuveen's Bob Doll explained how he came to his 10 predictions for the markets in 2014. Regarding stocks, he thinks it should be another up-year for the market. "On the back of very strong equity market performance in 2013, it is hard to conclude that equities haven’t “stolen” some 2014 returns," he said. "Accordingly, while we think equities will experience further upside in 2014, we expect gains to be less ebullient and more volatile. With the significant rise in valuation (P/E ratios) in 2013, we expect that market gains will depend more on earnings growth than further multiple expansion." We asked Doll what he thought about those who have been warning of a stock market bubble that's doomed to crash. He said he doesn't see a bubble. He continued by identifying and addressing what he considered to be the three signs of a bubble: This may not be satisfying to those who follow the many other indicators that reflect frothy markets. It's worth noting that Doll fully expects a market correction of around 10%, something he says would be quite normal. FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Jack PlunkettElon Musk, CEO of Tesla and No. 2 on Business Insider's list of the sexiest CEOs.The trick to raising your company's stock price is simple: hire a hot CEO. That's not a joke. While it's previously been shown that better-looking CEOs earn bigger paychecks, these attractive execs also are associated with higher stock returns and stronger gains on M&amp;A deals, according to a new research paper. In "Beauty is Wealth: CEO Appearance and Shareholder Value," University of Wisconsin economists Joseph Halford and Scott Hsu discovered the link between attractiveness and company profitability after examining the looks of 677 people who served as CEOs of S&amp;P 500 companies between 2000 and 2012 and the performance of their companies' stocks at various points. To come up with the attractiveness metrics, Halford and Hsu used a "Facial Attractiveness Index" (FAI) that crunches aspects of facial geometry (something long linked to universal standards of beauty). They then compared these scores to various measures of stock performance and compensation, and came up with four main conclusions: 1. Attractive CEOs receive a "beauty premium." Halford and Hsu confirm prior research, which shows that more attractive CEOs receive higher total compensation than their less attractive peers. This pay difference is known as the "beauty premium." 2. Stocks rise when attractive CEOs start their jobs. "We find that FAI has a positive and significant impact on stock returns surrounding the first day when the CEO is on the job, indicating that shareholders seem to perceive more attractive CEOs to be more valuable," Halford and Hsu write. 3. Attractive CEOs get larger surpluses from M&amp;A deals. Halford and Hsu say this finding is linked to the notion that hotter CEOs are more persuasive negotiators. This allows them to negotiate greater surpluses during M&amp;A transactions and see greater stock returns when the deals are announced. 4. Stocks rise if the company's attractive CEO appears on TV. Having a hot CEO boosts a company's visibility and public image. Halford and Hsu find that when attractive CEOs appear on television, their companies tend to see improved stock returns. Talk about effective marketing. "The findings suggest that CEO appearance matters for shareholder value and provide an explanation why more attractive CEOs receive 'beauty premiums' in their compensation," the economists conclude. FREE AppDownload
The Bureau of Labor Statistics is out with a cool chart today that shows the labor force participation for different age groups over the years. Over the past 20 years, our work force has consistently become older and that isn't projected to change anytime soon. In 1992, more than half of 16-to-19 year olds were working. That fell to just over 30% in 2012 and will be near a quarter in 2022. A similar, but less pronounced drop exists for 20-to-24 year olds. On the other end of the age range, only 4.5% of people over the age of 75 were working in 1992. In 2012, that number is 7.6% and it's projected to rise to over 10% by 2022. BLS expects more than 30% of Americans aged 65-74 to be working in 2022, up from 26.8% two years ago. In 1992, the average age of the labor force was 37.1. It was 41.9 in 2012. Here's the full chart: Bureau of Labor Statistics FREE AppDownload
U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara just held a press conference about the $1.7 billion fine JP Morgan must pay for its negligence in allowing Bernie Madoff to launder his ill gotten gains through the bank for decades. "For years JP Morgan repeatedly ignored warning signs &amp; allowed suspicious round-trip transactions through Madoff’s account," said Bharara. But that's not all. What is clear from Bharara's description of the bank's relationship with Madoff, is that JP Morgan was aware of the Ponzi scheme before Madoff's arrest. In 2007 and 2008 it became increasingly clear to JP Morgan's top brass that something was awry. Instead of alerting U.S. authorities, however, the bank made sure that none of its money was in jeopardy first. The bank itself was invested with Madoff through a number of feeder funds. According to Bharara, in the fall of 2008, a JP Morgan memo laid out what was wrong with Madoff. It questioned his "odd choice of a one man accounting firm, " and said that there were "various elements of this story that" made the bank "nervous." Two weeks later, the bank sent a memo to UK regulators saying that Madoff's returns were suspicious. That was around October/November 2008, and as that was going on, JP Morgan also took $275 million of its money out of Madoff feeder funds. He was arrested on December 11, 2008. "JPMC connected the dots when it mattered to its own profit," said Bharara, "but wasn’t so diligent..." when it came to its obligations to report illegal activity. In case you missed the full ruling, aside from admitting guilt and paying a $1.7 billion fine, JP Morgan has a two year deferred prosecution. That means it has to cooperate with the DOJ for two years and "reform its anti-money laundering policies." Executives that knew about Madoff, for the record, will not be prosecuted as individuals. That's part of the deal. FREE AppDownload
Netflix shares are down about 5% today, following a downgrade of the stock by Morgan Stanley analyst Scott Devitt. Devitt downgraded the stock because Netflix rivals like Amazon Instant and Hulu are beefing up their own original content. He also argues that Hulu has better television show programs than Netflix and is able to get on more devices faster. Here's a look at the Netflix stock today: CNBC Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through his personal investment company Bezos Expeditions. FREE AppDownload
AP/Yasin BulbulIn this photo provided by Turkish Prime Minister's Press Service, Hamas leader Halid Mashaal, right, is greeted by Turkey's Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan in Ankara, Turkey, Friday, March 16, 2012.While the government of Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan faces an extensive corruption investigation targeting his inner circle, the country's problems far exceed domestic graft. Turkey is entangled in several shady endeavors that could eventually jeopardize its standing as a key U.S. and NATO ally. "This is not just a Turkish underworld problem. This is a global illicit finance problem that intersects with rogue regimes and terrorist non-state actors," Dr. Jonathan Schanzer, a former terrorism finance analyst at the U.S. Department of the Treasury, told Business Insider. Based on his experience tracking issues manifesting in Turkey in recent years, Schanzer detailed the six "massive red flags" of the larger scandal: 1) Last year Turkey was almost blacklisted by the Financial Action Task Force (FATF), an international terror finance regulatory body, for being out of compliance with its status obligations. "It was remarkable not because they were out of compliance, but because they were out of compliance for seven years," Schanzer, who is now the vice president of research at the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, told BI. "They didn't do anything and they waited until the 11th hour to make changes." The only countries currently blacklisted by the FATF are Iran and North Korea. 2) "Turkey appears to be a top sponsor of Hamas right now," Schanzer said, referring to the U.S.-designated terrorist group that governs the Gaza Strip. He cited material support flowing from Turkey to Hamas for the construction of schools and mosques as well as unconfirmed reports of $300 million in annual aid. "If you take that and you add that to what we can now confirm of Hamas operatives working on Turkish soil, then there is an even greater cause for concern," Schanzer said. Multiple sources told Schanzer that Salah Al Arouri, the No.5 or 6 in the Hamas organization, is known to be based in Turkey. Arouri founded the West Bank branch of the Qassam Brigades, which is the armed wing of Hamas. The group stood out in eight day war against Israel in November 2012 and continues sporadic rocket attacks against Israel. "If one starts to connect the dots, you can't help but wonder if Arouri is directing these attacks from Ankara or wherever," Schanzer said, noting that other Hamas operatives may be active in Turkey. "If you think of their efforts to join the EU [and] their alliance with the U.S., it's just remarkable that they would take those sorts of risks" given U.S. laws against sponsoring terrorism. 3) Syria: "We continue to hear about the flow of weapons and goods and people over the border and the border is rather porous," Schanzer said. He noted that while "the Turks need to do this to maintain good relations to whomever is on the other side of the border," there are indications of assistance beyond lax border security. In December the U.S. Treasury designated Abd al-Rahman al-Nuaymi, the Qatari head of a prominent Geneva-based human rights group, as a major al-Qaeda terrorist financier and facilitator in Syria (and elsewhere).  Nuaymi, who was contacted in Istanbul by the Financial Times, denied the charges. "One just needs to put all of the things together to start to see a much more troubling trend," Schanzer told BI. 4) Erdogan's relationship with Yasin al-Qadi, a Saudi billionaire who was listed as a "Specially Designated Global Terrorist" by the U.S. Treasury in October 2001 for allegedly funding Osama bin Laden, Hamas, and other terrorist groups.  "The interesting thing about the al-Qadi issue is that when he was first designated, his front companies were all based in Turkey ... and he had quite a bit of operations on Turkish soil," Schanzer told BI. Erdogan has defended al Qadi for more than a decade. The prime minister's security detail has also escorted al Qadi into Turkey without a passport or visa. A list of people due to be arrested in the corruption probe included al Qadi, who is reportedly linked to the prime minister's son Bilal, but the orders were not carried out. "We don't know exactly what the relationship is with al-Qadi, but we know that his problems started in Turkey," Schanzer said. "It's very hard to look at this right now without remembering that and asking the question: Has he remained active in Turkey through this time?" 5) An extensive gas-for-gold scheme involving Iran, which ran from about March 2012 to the fall of 2013 and yielded Iran more than $13 billion dollars amid crippling sanctions implemented by the U.S. over the country's perceived nuclear program.  "It's a huge amount of money," Schanzer, who recently detailed the arrangement in Foreign Policy, said. "You can't ignore the fact that the Turks helped Iran with a massive sanctions-busting scheme."  6) "To add insult to injury, we have the Chinese missile deal ... where the Turks contracted with a Chinese company that's already on [the U.S.] proliferation list." So while the domestic corruption issues and political battle between Erdogan and powerful Islamic network created by Fethullah Gulen will be decided through courts and elections, the reasons listed above are international and central to U.S. interests in the region. Resolving these issues — particular those involving Erdogan's government supporting two suspected al Qaeda financiers and a U.S.-designated terrorist organization — may be critical to a continued alliance between Turkey and the U.S. "Yes it will be a sensitive issue and yes it will raise issues with Washington, but the alternative is unthinkable," according to Schanzer.REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueU.S. President Barack Obama and Turkish Prime Minister Tayyip Erdogan (L) meet in New York September 20, 2011.That alternative would involve the status quo continuing to the point where members of Congress or the State Department or the Treasury were forced consider labeling Turkey a state sponsor of terrorism. "No one wants to do that, but the letter of the law is getter harder and harder to ignore that they might qualify," Schanzer said. "If left unchecked, this could be become a serious problem." The obstacle for the U.S. is that, given the Obama administration's divergent Middle East policy, Washington hasn't put itself in the best position to influence Erdogan's government.  "One gets the sense that the wheels started to come off across the board: Our Syria policy didn't hold up; our Iran policy appears to be at odds with itself; and our general counterterrorism policies across the region don't seem to be applied consistently," Schanzer said. "Turkey seems to be in the middle of all of that." FREE AppDownload
YouTube/JessicaSberlatiI am not a crook!New research suggests that "predatory lending" — the buzzword villain of the financial crisis — may have only played a small part in the subprime lending crisis. An upcoming study in the Journal of Financial Economics found that "predatory lending was responsible for only about a quarter of the default rate, suggesting it wasn't the most important driver of the subprime crisis," said co-author Itzhak Ben-David of Ohio State's Fisher College of Business (via Bloomberg's Matt Levine). Then there's this new San Francisco Fed economic letter, which found that borrowers' "tendency to choose adjustable-rate mortgages is consistent with mortgage decisions based on economic considerations, rather than just lack of financial sophistication." As Levine points out, these papers offer a different story of the financial crisis. It's a tale much more sympathetic to the lenders (less "predator," more "presenting borrowers with the opportunity to take perfectly rational risks"). History will have to place the blame. FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVGina Martin Adams.Wells Fargo's Gina Martin Adams was the most bearish strategist on Wall Street in 2013, sticking to her 1440 year-end S&amp;P 500 target the whole way through, even as others revised their forecasts up on account of rising stock prices (the index closed the year at 1848). Adams just published her 2014 outlook, and her new year-end S&amp;P 500 target of 1850 — just above Monday's close of 1837 — is once again the lowest on the Street (although this year, she's joined at the bottom of the range of forecasts by Deutsche Bank's David Bianco and Barry Banister at Stifel Nicolaus, who both share her new target). Here's the wild part: Adams says she "wouldn’t be surprised to see the index trade as high as 2,100 and as low as 1,500 at some stage throughout the year." Needless to say, that's a big range. "Indeed, we expect 2014 to be filled with both thrills and chills for equity investors, offering both bulls and bears something to feast on," says Adams. On one hand, Adams expects growth in earnings per share to accelerate this year. "We forecast S&amp;P 500 EPS growth should accelerate from 4% in 2013 to 7% in 2014 and 6% in 2015," she writes. "In our view, slightly stronger growth in earnings should be driven by better revenue growth via stronger business investment, export growth, and a reduced drag from fiscal tightening." This forecast is still below Wall Street's consensus estimate, which sees EPS growth accelerating to 11% in 2014 and 10% in 2015, but the modest acceleration Adams predicts is nonetheless what she refers to as "the thrills" for investors. The "chills," on the other hand, relate to valuations, which Adams contends are 20% too high at current levels, based on a model that takes interest rates, inflation, demographics, and private sector GDP growth as inputs. "Indeed, the current [price to earnings] ratio is 17x, 18% above long-term average of 14.4x and 6.9% above the post-WWII average of 15.9x," says Adams. "Likewise, most measures that offer a broader perspective of valuation also suggest the S&amp;P 500 is currently overvalued relative to history. For instance, the cyclically-adjusted PE ratio (CAPE, also referred to as the Shiller PE) is 25.1x, a level exceeded only 4 times in the last century. Likewise, Tobin’s Q suggests companies are priced at 0.99x." Of the four factors in Wells Fargo's valuation model — interest rates, inflation, demographics, and private sector GDP growth — Adams says "interest rates are likely to impact the multiple most profoundly in 2014." In other words, as the Federal Reserve winds down its quantitative easing program this year and interest rates go higher, Adams believes the stock market will eventually feel the pain. In her outlook, she writes: While the Fed’s modest taper has thus far proven a non-event for stocks, an eventual end to QE may still prove rather troubling for investor risk tolerance. As evidenced by the 24% drop in the S&amp;P 500 PE affiliated with the end of QE1 and the 22% drop in PE that occurred with the end of QE2, risk tolerance has historically struggled to absorb bearish changes in quantitative easing (QE) programs. Even if QE manages to end without fireworks in 2014 (it’s a big IF, in our view), investors may have to price stocks for tightening in the target rate in 2015. Historically, stocks tend to struggle most with rate increases in the six months prior to and six months just after the first tightening. If the first tightening is June 2015, as the current futures markets suggest, the multiple may start to reflect concerns over future tightening as early as late 2014. The PE trend in the last two tightening cycles shows just how much stocks tend to react to future rate hikes. While investors should continue to enjoy extremely low short rates for now, it seems likely that by the end of 2014 they may be looking forward to tightening in 2015. This combination of near-term scaling and end to QE, ultimately feeding through to higher short rates 18-24 months from now could prove difficult for the PE to absorb. As it happens, the average multiple contraction affiliated with the last four negative policy shifts (1994, 2004, 2010, 2011) is 23% — right in line with our model’s implied contraction of 20%. Adams suggests clients overweight their portfolio allocations to stocks in the technology, health care, and financials sectors in 2014 while underweighting allocations to stocks in the consumer staples, utilities, telecom, energy, and materials sectors, based on relative valuations.    FREE AppDownload
Nuveen Asset ManagementOne of the more anticipated annual lists of market predictions comes from Nuveen Asset Management's Bob Doll, the veteran investment strategist who previously held top posts at BlackRock and Merrill Lynch. As usual, Doll sees stocks rising this year. But he expects the ride to be much bumpier than it was in 2013. "Skepticism about the durability of the equity rally remains widespread as many argue that stocks have become expensive and that profit margins are unsustainably high," said Doll. "We think those potential headwinds will limit, but not prevent gains, and perhaps cause more volatility than was experienced last year. While stocks are vulnerable to a correction any time given their recent strength and some technical deterioration, we continue to favor a moderate pro-growth posture with forward long-term potential to mid- to high- single-digit annual percentage gains." At a breakfast on Monday, Doll presented the charts behind his 10 predictions.  He also offered his longer-term forecasts.  Somewhat surprisingly, he thinks the average annual return in U.S. stocks for the next ten years will be a lackluster 6%-8%. We got a copy of Doll's presentation, which includes the charts and stats that are behind his investment framework. Thanks to Nuveen Asset Management for giving us permission to feature this presentation.
Everyone is watching to see if China really can move away from being fueled by credit to one that is more sustainable and driven by consumers. UBS's Tao Wang thinks the chart of China's "rapid and volatile" non-loan credit growth is the most important chart on China. That's because this one chart can answer three of the biggest questions behind the consensus 7.5% GDP growth forecast for 2014, writes Tao. Tao admits that their "credit impulse measure isn't perfect" but that "it remains the best indicator available for tracking overall credit conditions in China's economy." This chart shows overall credit has been declining. Tao expects "the government will pursue a slightly more prudent monetary policy and will better regulate the shadow credit market in 2014, slowing the pace of leverage but refraining from outright deleverage." Tao projects that overall credit will grow 15-16% this year and has a slightly above consensus GDP forecast of 7.8%. UBS/Business Insider FREE AppDownload
A scatterplot of the performance of the S&amp;P 500 during each January and its full year from 1947 through 2013 shows that there is something to the effect. Over the past 67 years covered by our analysis, January and its full year have been up 55% of the time. During only four years (1966, 1994, 2001, and 2011) were up Januarys followed by full-year declines. Down Januarys aren’t necessarily bearish given that they were preceded by 11 years that were up. There were 14 down Januarys followed by full-year declines. While we are waiting to see how the month ends, there will be plenty of earnings news to digest. Most of it won’t matter much since it will be for the final quarter of last year, which has dropped out of the calculation of forward earnings. Forward earnings is the time-weighted average of the current and next years’ consensus expected earnings. It is the "E" that I use in my P/E x E analysis of the market. Right now, it is identical to the expectations just for this year, but it will give less weight to this one and more to the next as the year progresses. Q4-2013 results will matter only if they significantly alter analysts’ expectations for 2014 and 2015, which seems unlikely to me. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Earnings, Revenues, &amp; Margins. (1) The “January Effect” is coming. (2) A scatterplot. (3) Another earnings season is starting. (4) Why it may not matter. (5) Analysts forecasting double-digit earnings growth. (6) Can 5% revenues growth produce 10% earnings growth? (7) Global PMIs confirming moderately upbeat outlook for revenues. (8) Emerging Markets PMI is rebounding. (9) However, NERIs are still negative. (10) Analysts predicting rising margins. (11) Margins could suffer if companies expand payrolls and capacity more rapidly. (12) For now, business spending on labor and capital lowest relative to GDP since early 1950s. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
Forbes' Nathan Vardi reports that hedge fund superstars George Soros, John Paulson and Leon Cooperman have taken a stake in Caesars Acquisition Co. (the online gambling spinoff of the physical casino that bears the same name). That puts them squarely against fellow billionaire Sheldon Adelson, the CEO of Las Vegas Sands, over the future of the online gambling industry, which has spread across the country over recent years as states look to capitalize on the tax revenues. Adelson, a casino magnate who gained national notoriety for a monster $100 million attempt to oust President Obama in 2012, is "working to get state attorneys general to sign a petition against online gambling," Vardi reports. From Forbes: While Adelson’s limitless money–and his willingness to spend it–may slow the momentum for online gambling by blocking its spread into big states like California and Florida, the odds of him stopping it or bullying his rivals out of the game are slim. He’s got lots of chips, but all the other players at the table do, too. Now it looks like Adelson's loss would be a major gain for a host of prominent investors. Read the full report at Forbes » FREE AppDownload
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVGluskin Sheff's David Rosenberg has previously warned that 2014 could see a "return to inflationary pressures."  Rosenberg thinks inflation is a "long-forgotten word in central banking parlance." And in light of that, he published an excerpt from an email from one of a "loyal reader" that points to some anecdotal evidence: My reserved parking place in our office building in downtown Houston just went from $379 per month to $401. That's 5.8% inflation. Seeing it everywhere — just got back from Beaver Creek, Co ski trip where I paid $115 for breakfast for four at the hotel! That gave me heart palpitations! Nearly went into cardiac arrest when I bought an individual size pizza for my son at a restaurant on the slopes that cost $27! My burrito bowl and coffee was $32!! I understand paying for convenience, but that was ridiculous. Still the restaurant was packed. Inflation and discretionary spending haven't missed a beat down here. BTW — we were walking in the Beaver Creek Village where all the boutiques are located and my 11 year old asked me, "Dad, what's that smell?" I told him, "Son, someone is smoking pot. It is legal in Colorado now." We were both a little shocked. Then I see this article today: Bloomberg's Alison Vekshin: 'Pot Prices Double As Colorado Begins Recreational Sales.' How ironic. Inflation really is everywhere! Keep it real! "In other words, us these mini-bond rallies as opportunities to shed some duration risk," said Rosenberg. Shedding duration risk is another way of saying sell bonds. Rosenberg thinks inflationary expectations could prompt the Fed to scale back its asset purchase program at an even faster pace. FREE AppDownload
Business InsiderThe Weirdest Things About America, a collection of casual observations of the USA by an Indian exchange student, is a hilarious and insightful critique of American life. It is twice as entertaining to those who know India.Nellie Thompson, my girlfriend and co-author, and I both lived in Mumbai as working professionals--she for six months and I for the better part of a year. Here we offer our own casual observations on what we, as Americans, found amusing, thought-provoking, and downright strange about life in India.We lived in Mumbai's Bandra neighborhood in an area called Pali Hill--a leafy, historically Christian enclave best known for its heavy expat presence and its close proximity to Bollywood. Though we travelled quite a bit within the country and explored Mumbai extensively, we merely scratched the surface of what India has to offer. We do not claim to be authorities on India, but we did walk away with a profound love for the country.In that spirit, we wanted to share our anecdotal (and completely subjective) observations from our time there. We invite readers to share their own experiences, as well. ---- About the authors: Nicholas Kapur heads products and development for SumZero, a collaborative research platform for investment funds. In India, Nick managed business development projects for a US-based financial services firm.Nellie Thompson is a public health nutritionist and an Indian food enthusiast. She consults for HealthxDesign, a Brooklyn-based organization that promotes community health through urban design. She also does branding and marketing for doublehighfive bk. In India, she was a research fellow for the strategic philanthropy firm, Dasra. FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Chip EastFormer Tyco International Ltd. Chairman Dennis Kozlowski arrives with his wife Karen at New York Supreme court March 30, 2004.After spending more than eight years as an inmate in the New York State prison system, former Tyco International CEO Dennis Kozlowski was granted parole in December 2013. He'll be released on January 17, 2014, eleven and a half years after he was indicted by former Manhattan DA Robert Morgenthau, the legendary prosecutor known for his dogged pursuit of white-collar criminals in New York City. You probably remember Kozlowski as the guy who bought a $6,000 shower curtain. Or as the guy who threw a two million dollar birthday bash where scantily clad men and women and a vodka-urinating ice sculpture of David enhanced the Roman-orgy themed party atmosphere. Kozlowski's lavish lifestyle was often lambasted by the media after he was indicted by the Manhattan DA in 2002. What you may not remember is Kozlowski as the charismatic CEO who headed Tyco during the 1990s when the company grew from a small New Hampshire enterprise into a $40 billion a year global giant that employed 250,000 people and operated in more than 100 countries. During Kozlowski's decade as CEO, Tyco successfully acquired hundreds of companies -- some for tens of billions of dollars. Kozlowski probably has more direct experience with successful mergers and acquisitions than anyone, ever, and Tyco benefitted immensely from his extraordinary ability to target, analyze, acquire, and quickly enhance the value of companies in a variety of industries all over the world. At the pinnacle of his career, Kozlowski was accused of serious felonies related to his management of Tyco. Along with then Tyco CFO Mark Swartz, Kozlowski allegedly took more than $100 million in compensation that wasn't approved by the Tyco Board of Directors. Kozlowski and Swartz were tried twice. After six long months, dozens of witnesses, and tens of millions of dollars in legal fees, the first trial ended in a mistrial during jury deliberations. Several months later, there was another lengthy trial. At the conclusion of five additional months of trial, the jury found Kozlowski and Swartz guilty of dozens of felony charges that sent the two former executives to state prison for many years. In January of 2014, after serving the maximum minimum sentence (the judge could have sentenced Kozlowski and Swartz to one year, but opted to impose the maximum minimum sentence of 8 1/3 years), the two will be paroled. So what's next for Dennis Kozlowski? There's really no chance he'll reoffend. Let's face it — he'll never again be in a position to wrongfully take compensation from a publicly traded corporation. As a parolee, his life and activities will be restricted for a while. One of the requirements of his parole will be finding and keeping a job. So what will he do? Most people look  for a job where they can use their prior experience. But Kozlowski will never again be a corporate executive. Clearly, the former CEO has valuable skills, but his character has been so severely damaged by the media for more than a decade, it's going to be difficult for him to rehabilitate his image and move forward. He somehow has to overcome the $6,000 shower curtain, the birthday party, the hundreds of articles and images that portrayed him as a greedy, evil corporate executive, and the stigma of being a convicted felon who pilfered millions of dollars. As Kozlowski re-enters society, here's what everyone should know. The Dennis Kozlowski character created by the media is not the real Dennis Kozlowski. So much that has been written and said about him, while interesting because of its sensational outrageousness, is factually inaccurate. Kozlowski is a better person than the guy portrayed in the media for the past eleven years. We must remember that not everything we read is accurate. Sometimes, things are written simply to sell more newspapers or to get more online hits. Perhaps it's time to give Dennis Kozlowski a break — allow him to rebuild his life without any further public castigation, name-calling, and mischaracterizations. While it will undoubtedly be better than the past eleven years, life after prison won't be easy for Dennis Kozlowski. It will be interesting to see if the media and public opinion will allow Kozlowski to shed the caricature of the greedy CEO and move forward. Will he be able to put the conviction behind him? Kozlowski served a long sentence — much longer than those served by most violent criminals. Hopefully, his punishment will end and Kozlowski will be allowed a productive, uneventful third act. Catherine S. Neal, author of Taking Down the Lion: The Triumphant Rise and Tragic Fall of Tyco's Dennis Kozlowski, is an Associate Professor of Business Ethics and Business Law in the Haile/US Bank College of Business at Northern Kentucky University. She is a graduate of the University of Cincinnati College of Law where she was a Corporate Law Fellow.  Professor Neal was granted unprecedented access to Dennis Kozlowski, his papers, attorneys, family, friends, and former Tyco colleagues, as well as transcripts and evidence from two criminal trials. Neal's research included interviews with former Manhattan DA Robert Mortgenthau, the foreman of the jury that convicted Kozlowski, and key Tyco insiders.For more information about the book please visit the publisher's website. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Stefan WermuthThis morning we got the news that the U.S. trade deficit has shrunk to its lowest level since October 2009. Oil imports fell 1.9%, helping the deficit shrink to $34.3 billion (economists were looking for the deficit to come in at $40 billion). Now some of Wall Street's top analysts are revising their fourth quarter GDP predictions on the news. "We revised up our Q4 GDP tracking forecast to 3.0% from 2.3% following November international trade data," Credit Suisse's Neal Soss wrote clients. "The quarter-to-date real goods deficit is tracking -$35bn (annual rate) narrower than the Q3 average, implying a significant net export contribution to fourth quarter growth." Joseph LaVorgna of Deutsche Bank pushed his shop's Q4 GDP call to 4.0% after the report. High Frequency Economics' Jim O'Sullivan wrote clients, "As of now our our 2.5% estimate for 4Q real GDP growth looks too low." "The November trade data would suggest Q4 GDP growth is likely stronger than we expected," GMP Securities' Adrian Miller wrote. "Indeed, while we have previous forecasted a 2.0% Q4 growth rate following Q3’s +4.1%, the trade data, unless offset in December could lift Q4 growth by 30bp to 40bp. Hence we are revising our Q4 estimate to 2.3%." FREE AppDownload
Another day, another $1.7 billion in fines for JP Morgan. This time, it's for failing to catch Ponzi schemer Bernie Madoff as it managed his ill gotten gains. Now the bank has to admit that it didn't have the systems in place to catch Madoff and implement them under a deferred criminal prosecution agreement. You could call this a case of "too big to manage," one of anti-Wall Street crusader Senator Elizabeth Warren's (D-MA) favorite catchphrases. Back in November, she used it to talk about reinstating Glass-Steagall, the regulation that once split commercial and investment banks. "The new Glass-Steagall Act would attack both 'too big' and 'to fail,'" Warren said..."It would reduce failures of the big banks by making banking boring, protecting deposits, and providing stability to the system even in bad times. And it would reduce 'too big' by dismantling the behemoths, so that big banks would still be big—but not too big to fail or, for that matter, too big to manage, too big to regulate, too big for trial, or too big for jail." In terms of management, the Madoff case is a catastrophe arguably worse than the London Whale. Sure, the London Whale ended up costing JP Morgan $6 billion, and it was born in the bank's own Chief Investment Office, but that failing trade was only hidden from JPM's execs for about half a year. Madoff managed to fool everyone for decades. Well, almost everyone. There were people at JP Morgan who sounded the alarm, according to Iriving Picard, the trustee appointed by New York's bankruptcy trustee to review Madoff's case for his "clients". Picard's 2011 report indicates that two JPM executives knew something was wrong with Madoff, Risk Chairman John Hogan and COO Matt Zames. Here's a quote from Hogan back in 2007 (From Picard's report, via CNN Money): "For whatever it['s] worth, I am sitting at lunch with Matt Zames who just told me that there is a well-known cloud over the head of Madoff and that his returns are speculated to be part of a [P]onzi scheme." So how did something like this get lost? Banks are supposed to file 'Suspicious Activity Reports' for this kind of thing. Those go to the Department of Justice. The DOJ, for its part, gets 1.6 billion of these SAR reports a year, and JP Morgan files up to 250,000 of them itself. Still, two high level executives had their suspicions about Madoff a year and a half before he was arrested. They won't penalized for it though. That's part of the deal with the DOJ, according to the Wall Street Journal. Take that as you like it. FREE AppDownload
Mike Nudelman, Business Insider Forget Bitcoin. Forget Litecoin. Forget Dogecoin. It's time for a new digital currency that has some real view. PRESENTING: Stalwartbucks. Along with my friend Guan Yang, today I'm proud to announce a brand new digital currency that everyone can mine or trade. See, one of the cool things about this new world of digital currencies is that they're all based — for the most part — on open-source technology. So all you have to do is copy the code of someone else, get some servers running, and voilà, anyone can start creating the currency by having their computer solve math problems. We're launching Stalwartbucks (SBX) for two reasons. One is that it's an experiment in learning about crypto-currencies, and how they work. What better way to learn about how they operate than to launch one of your own and actually see the guts of it? But also this is an attempt to create something of real value that serves an economic purpose. Once every month, Guan and I will go out to get Korean barbecue — our favorite food to eat together — and invite a third person along who wants to talk about economics and technology (two of our favorite subjects). Of course, to buy your way into this dinner, you'll have to pay using Stalwartbucks. Thus, unlike Bitcoin, we're instantly creating a floor in the value of the coins by dint of the fact that they'll be redeemable for something of real value. Furthermore, I plan to auction off one post a month, where I will write on the topic of your choice: Again, you'll have to pay in Stalwartbucks. And hopefully it's not just me. Other Twitterers, writers, pundits, and so forth will be encouraged to help create a thriving ecosystem whereby people can redeem their Stalwartbucks. So go check out the website, download the wallet (only for Mac right now), start mining, and start trading them. There will be some bugs and kinks for now. And you can ping @guan on Twitter if you have any issues. But hang with us, and we'll see how this goes. FREE AppDownload
Dan Kitwood/Getty ImagesHome prices (including distressed sales) climbed 11.8% year-over-year in November 2013, marking the 21st straight month of year-over-year increases, according to CoreLogic's latest home price report. Excluding distressed sales, home prices edged up 0.3% month-over-month in November compared to October.  "The housing market paused as expected in November for the holiday season with very low month-over-month appreciation,” CoreLogic economist Mark Fleming said in the release.  The CoreLogic pending home price index projects that home prices will rise 11.5% in 2013, making it the best year for home price growth since 2005. FREE AppDownload
But the commodities “supercycle” ended in 2013 and seems set to retreat further in the rear-view mirror. The average price of gold in 2012 was $1,699 an ounce, but Credit Suisse commodities analysts say the 2013 year-end average was some 16 percent lower at $1,421 per ounce. Copper prices have fallen sharply too, from $7,971 a ton on average in 2012 to $7,349 this year – a 7.8 percent drop. It’s been quite the precipitous decline: Copper was selling for more than $9,000 a ton in 2010. Mining investment in another major commodities exporter, Australia, has already peaked, prompting a great deal of discussion about how to rebalance the economy. But though Peru, too, needs to think about diversifying its economy, the situation is different – not least because there is still plenty of mining investment in the pipeline. Credit Suisse analysts and other observers believe resource-rich Peru’s strong domestic economy and healthy public finances should ensure a relatively soft landing. Credit Suisse analyst Juan Lorenzo Maldonado pegs Peru’s 2013 GDP growth at 5.1 percent, down from 6.3 percent in 2012. That’s in line with the Peruvian central bank’s forecast, which was lowered from a previous estimate of 5.5 percent in December But he expects stronger, not weaker, growth in 2014 (up 5.5 percent) and again in 2015 (5.8 percent). That’s a comedown from recent years, but still head and shoulders above most of its neighbors. Credit Suisse analysts project Brazil, for example, will grow by a comparatively anemic 3 percent in 2014, up from just 2.4 percent in 2013. Commodity-hungry China, which accounted for about 17 percent of the Andean nation’s total foreign trade in 2012, has been key to Peru’s recent economic success. China spent $7.85 billion on Peruvian goods in 2012 alone, with $4.45 billion of the total going toward copper purchases and another $2.15 billion to other metals. But with China growing more slowly than it once did—after growing at 9.2 percent in 2011 and 7.7 percent in 2012, the world’s second-largest economy coasted in 2013, expanding by just 7.6 percent—Chinese import demand has flagged as well. Total Peruvian exports to China fell 7.5 percent in the first 10 months of 2013 compared to the same period in 2012. As lower gold and copper prices translate into lower export earnings, Peru’s current account deficit hit an estimated 5 percent of GDP in 2013 and looks set to clock in at a similar 4.7 percent in 2014. Even at the height of the financial crisis in 2008, the country’s current account deficit was just 4.2 percent. That’s the bad news. The good news: despite those falling commodities prices, mining companies are planning – at least as of now – to stay busy in Peru. In August, the Peruvian Ministry of Mining valued the investment pipeline of 50 major projects that are either currently underway or awaiting approval at $57.4 billion –more than one-fourth of this year’s estimated nominal GDP. About $36 billion are copper projects, while gold and iron ore ventures account for some $7 billion apiece. Chinese companies, which currently back about a quarter of Peru’s mining investments, will continue to be key players. Shougang Corp., one of China’s largest steelmakers, plans to invest $1.2 billion at its Marcona iron ore mine to double annual output to 20 million metric tons, Raul Vera la Torre, CEO of Shougang’s local subsidiary, told Business News Americas. Beijing-based Chinalco recently completed a $3.5 billion expansion at its Toromocho copper mine and is expected to be at full capacity – producing 117,000 tons of ore per day – by the third quarter of 2014, according to press reports. Chinese companies are not the only ones beefing up their operations in Peru. U.S.-based Freeport-McMoran plans to pay $4.4 billion to expand the Cerro Verde copper mine, Canada’s HudBay Minerals is spending $1.79 billion on another copper project, and Australia’s Strike Resources’ expects to spend $2.3 billion on an iron venture, according to the Ministry of Mining report. While these 10-figure investment plans are impressive, there is some concern that falling prices might give mining companies second thoughts when the time comes to actually put shovels in the ground. And it’s not just economics but politics too. In a September report entitled “Peru: A New Normal of Lower Growth,” Credit Suisse’s Maldonado said that deteriorating business confidence in the economy, as well as weak external demand “threaten the materialization of the (projects in the) investment pipeline.” However, business confidence has already started showing a recovery in recent months, and is expected to translate into stronger private investment figures in the coming quarters. The community diplomacy required to move forward with new projects is an important part of both Peruvian politics and the success or failure of mining projects in the country. Local residents adversely affected by mining activity have successfully halted new developments or the expansion of existing mines with large-scale protests. Mass demonstrations in the Cajamarca region over the last two years, for example, forced U.S.-based Newmont Mining and its Peruvian partners to stop construction on a $4.8 billion copper and gold mine called Minas Conga in the northern part of the country. The protesters were worried about environmental damage from the project – specifically, that mines would ruin local lakes. Some hope a recently established government entity called Senace, chaired by environmental officials and in charge of approving mining applications, will better address environmental issues and thus ward off disputes between mining companies and ordinary Peruvians. Government-sponsored negotiations have already helped several stalled projects get back on track, including Xstrata’s massive $5.2 billion Las Bambas copper mine and Grupo México’s $1 billion Tía María copper project. But the Minas Conga mega-mine remains on hold, and the president of the Peruvian Institute of Mining Engineers, a private industry group, estimated last September that the last 10 mining projects postponed because of social conflicts resulted in a $10 billion shortfall for the Peruvian economy. Although mining is the most important part of the Peruvian economy, a number of ambitious public infrastructure projects should help beef up the country’s GDP numbers. Proinversión, Peru’s state investment agency, is expected to hand out 24 major projects worth a tidy $11 billion through the first quarter of 2015. A second runway and new passenger terminal planned at the Lima airport are expected to double commuter traffic by 2030. An extension of Lima’s metro system is also in the works. Those investments should generate jobs and provide a further boost to a newly resilient domestic consumer market. According to the World Bank, some 4.4 million Peruvians rose out of poverty between 2007 and 2011. The newly minted members of the middle class, with easy access to bank loans and credit cards, are spending their wages at newly constructed shopping centers and on services, entertainment and housing. Peru’s Finance Ministry projects domestic consumption will continue growing at around 5.5 percent from 2014 through 2016. Credit Suisse is slightly less optimistic, expecting consumption of 5.2 percent this year and 5.6 percent in 2014. No matter which numbers turn out to be correct, Peru appears on track to avoid a complete catastrophe following the broad decline in commodity prices. If the planned mining investments come to fruition, the Peruvian economic growth story could continue to be the envy of many developing nations. But Maldonado sounds a note of caution about the country’s more distant future in a November report entitled “Peru: Modest Growth Ahead,” saying “we think further efforts are needed to create medium-term sustainable growth rates that are not reliant on mining sector dynamics alone.” In other words, in a world where China is growing more slowly and commodities prices could remain under pressure for some time, diversifying the domestic economy may well prove to be the key to Peru’s success over the next decade. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jonathan Alcorn After three down days to start trading in 2014, U.S. stocks are rallying this morning. The S&amp;P 500 is up 0.5%, trading at 1835, while the Dow Jones Industrial Average is 0.6% higher at 16,530. Treasuries are mostly flat from yesterday's close, and gold is down 0.8%, trading below $1230 an ounce. Data released earlier this morning revealed that the U.S. trade deficit narrowed to $34.3 billion in November from October's $39.3 billion figure, way more than analysts expected. The release had no immediate impact on markets, however. FREE AppDownload
Think this would make a difference? Today, jury selection will begin in the insider trading case against Mathew Martoma, a former portfolio manager at embattled hedge fund SAC Capital. But before attorneys could argue before the jury, Martoma's lawyers tried to set an interesting term — they wanted to ban the use of the word "greed" during the trial. This request didn't go over well, according to the NYT: In a ruling on Monday, the judge presiding over the trial, Paul G. Gardephe, barred prosecutors from introducing evidence of Mr. Martoma’s fainting spell. But he decided to allow prosecutors to use the word “greed” during the trial, despite concerns raised by Mr. Strassberg that the word could be used as a way to “tap into the anger out there against Wall Street.” Remember, Martoma fainted in his front yard when the FBI took him in. Martoma is accused of passing inside information to Steve Cohen, the founder of SAC Capital, that made the firm $276 million. It's the latest in a string of cases against SAC, which last year pleaded guilty to federal insider trading charges, returned outside investor money, and became a family office. Mr. Cohen is paying Mr. Martoma's legal fees, and Martoma has not implicated Mr. Cohen in any charges. Now, about this anger against Wall Street. It has two very dangerous characteristics for Mr. Martoma. First, it's real and second, it's simple. You hear it all the time during cases involving Wall Street's misdeeds — the jury doesn't understand the case, the crime, or the victim. Most recently, it was repeated over and over again during the trial of Goldman Sachs' Fabrice Tourre. "Some members of the nine-person jury appeared to fall asleep as one expert witness testified to the ins-and-outs of the deals," Tracy Alloway reported in the FT.  But Tourre's case was more complicated than Martoma's matter. Using the word greed makes it simpler still. All that said, you may want to review the finer points of SAC Capital's history with insider trading charges. Frontline, tonight, will air a documentary on this topic at 10:00 pm EST. That should get you prepped. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Gary CameronJ.P. Morgan CEO Jamie Dimon (front) leaves the U.S. Justice Department after meeting with Attorney General Eric Holder, in Washington, September 26, 2013.JPMorgan Chase has agreed to pay $1.7 billion to victims of Bernie Madoff's ponzi scheme, according to a statement from the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York. [via Bloomberg News] U.S. Attorny Preet Bharara will hold a press conference today at 1:15 p.m. EST.  Bharara will announce two felony violations of the Bank Secrecy Act against JPMorgan.  Those criminal charges will be deferred for two years.   Here's the press release:  A press conference will be held today to announce criminal charges against JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. for two felony violations of the Bank Secrecy Act in connection with its relationship with Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities, a deferred prosecution agreement with the bank, and related civil actions.  The criminal charges against JPMorgan will be deferred for two years under an agreement requiring JPMorgan, among other things, to admit to its conduct; pay $1.7 billion to victims of Madoff’s fraud; and to reform its anti-money laundering policies.  The $1.7 billion payment by JPMorgan is the largest ever bank forfeiture, and also the largest ever Department of Justice penalty for a Bank Secrecy Act violation.  FREE AppDownload
Among the most-read posts on reddit's Bitcoin thread today is one about a guy who's performed the first Bitcoin transaction in North Korea. Sounds like a big breakthrough, right? But the details make the story really unimpressive. It turns out it's just a dude (of unknown origins but who's fluent in English) on a Chinese-run North Korea tour who had Internet access most actual North Koreans never get to see. "I believe that this is the first time a transaction on the blockchain has been broadcast from this country," he clarifies.  He did send his Bitcoin (though he does not specify the amount) to a charity.  Still, the real breakthrough will come when North Koreans themselves are able to use Bitcoin. Here's his photo: bitcoindprk/reddit FREE AppDownload
WikiMedia CommonsDealBook's Alexandra Stevenson has an article on activist investors like Daniel Loeb, Carl Icahn, David Einhorn and Bill Ackman. One unidentified hedge fund manager in the article has a passive aggressive approach to dealing with executives at companies he's targeting. The fund manager told Dealbook that he uses a mug during talks with execs that features photos of chairmen his hedge fund has ousted.   From DealBook:  But even though activists are more refined in their methods today, many keep a bully tactic or two in their back pocket. A partner at one activist hedge fund, based in New York, has a mug he likes to use during talks with corporate executives. The mug features the photographs of chairmen his hedge fund has removed in earlier activist campaigns. If this is not persuasive enough to make the executives pay attention, the hedge fund manager, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, will threaten to take his activist case to the public. “There’s one line that works,” he said. “ ‘We can make you famous, and not for the reason you want to be famous.’"  Hmm... who could that be?      FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Lucy NicholsonDemocrats are making a late push to get the Senate to approve an extension of the Emergency Unemployment Compensation (EUC) program that expired on Dec. 28, leaving 1.3 million Americans without benefits. The bill is a longshot to pass in the House, even if Democrats can break a Senate filibuster. Though benefit extensions tend to poll well, Republicans are in no mood to do President Obama any favors,  Potomac Research Group's Greg Valliere writes to his clients this morning. From Valliere: THE TRUMP CARD: Democrats say, correctly, that an extension of jobless benefits polls well, with the public eager to confront income disparity. But public opposition to more government spending trumps everything else; most Americans think the deficit is going straight up, when in fact it's going straight down. "No new spending" is still a powerful rallying cry, one that won't subside anytime soon. As Valliere notes, here's the deficit over the last few years. It's harder to digest than the "no new spending" mantra: FRED And as a percentage of GDP: FRED FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsWill Sen. Mark Kirk supply the final vote for cloture?Up until yesterday, only one Republican - Sen. Dean Heller (R-Nev.) - had revealed his support for a three-month extension of the Emergency Unemployment Compensation (EUC) program that expired on December 28. Now, with at least two (and maybe three) more Republicans expressing a willingness to vote for cloture on the bill, Democrats are close to breaking the filibuster. Yesterday afternoon, Sens. Susan Collins (R-Maine) and Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska) all revealed that they will vote for cloture on the bill. According to CNN, Kelly Ayotte (R-N.H.) will do so as well. Along with Heller and the 55 Democrats, that's 59 votes. Democrats are sure to up the pressure on Republicans from districts with high unemployment rates such as Sens. Sens. Lamar Alexander (Tenn.), Saxby Chambliss (Ga.), Bob Corker, (Tenn.), Johnny Isakson (Ga.) and Mark Kirk (Ill.). President Obama called Kirk yesterday to lobby him to vote for cloture, but he was not in his office. Even if Democrats are able to gain cloture on the bill, the odds of passage are still long. Collins stills want a spending offset included in the legislation and may withdraw her support for final passage otherwise. Then, it would have to get through the House. The Senate is scheduled to vote at 10:30 a.m. today. FREE AppDownload
The U.S. trade deficit shrank way more than expected, by more than 12% to $34.3 billion — the lowest level sicne October 2009. And it's all bcause of oil imports, which fell 1.9%. Consensus forecast was for the deficit to have closed to $40 billion, compared with $39.3 billion prior. Imports fell 1.9%, while exports climbed 0.9%. Deutsche Bank's Joe LaVorgna is impressed: Significantly narrower November international trade deficit (-$34.3B vs. -$39.3B) pushes our estimate of Q4 real #GDP growth to +4.0%. Here's the export chart from Markit's Chris Williamson — we are back at a new nominal all-time high. Chris Williamson/Markit Here's what things have been looking like since 2009. Econoday FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Amit DaveDave Lutz of Stifel, Nicolaus passes along the top topics that traders are talking about today: Good Morning!   Equity futures are rebounding, with the E-Minis up 30bp after the longest year-starting slump seen in 9 years – For Historians, WSJ notes this is only the seventh time the index has started the year with a three-day losing streak since it was established in 1928 -- but in six of those seven years, it subsequently posted an annual gain.   Nasdaq Futures are outperforming this first day of CES, as AAPL catches a bid over the 50dma as investors rotate away from Samsung’s poor earnings.   We have a upbeat tone in Europe as well ahead of the ECB decision Thursday, as the DAX is adding 60bp in heavier volume – but Spain continues the upward leader, as short-covering propels the IBEX up almost 2% in very heavy trade.   Asia was mostly red, as the Nikkei lost another 60bp on a stronger Yen, and China remained near 5M lows on multiple headwinds (IPO resumption, Shadow Banking Regulations).  Hong Kong was supported by Li &amp; Fung surging 11%, and South Korea managed a gain despite Samsung – as many feel their Central Bank will cut rates to depress their FX later this week.   Airlines and Rails will remain in focus on the weather – while single stock overnight movers include a continued rally in SIRI, MGM up 2% (MS Upgrade), a Continued bid under US Fins with BAC adding 1%, MSFT up 1% (China Gaming Console Ban removed), and DDD rebounding 3% on their CES lineup rollout.   Losers include NFLX off 3% on MS downgrade, GRPN off 1.5% on Livingsocial Stake Sale – and LNKD off 2% on a BofA downgrade.Yields in the US are flat, remaining near 2 week lows, as Yellen is confirmed by a 56-26 vote.  There remains a strong bid in PIIGS debt, propelling the EU fins up 3% today (Basel Watering Down tailwind as well).   The DXY is basically flat, but we have a decent pop in the Crude Complex, as Syria spills over into Iraq, and trouble remains at the Libyan ports.   Gold remains in the green, but failed upside 50dma again overnight.   With the weather, focus remains on the Agriculture Complex as well, with Cattle, Orange Juice and Wheat all supported on supply concerns.    We have Rosengren speaking at 8:30, a decent size POMO at 11, a 3Y auction at 1pm, Williams speaking at 2:10, then API data on the Energy Complex tonight at 4:30. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlo AllegriChildren ride a sled down Cedar Hill in Central Park in New York, January 3, 2014.Central Park was 5 degrees Tuesday morning, the coldest it's been on a Jan. 7 since 1896, according to NBC New York. This blast of frigid air comes after Central Park reached a high temperature of 55 degrees on Monday. The coldest temperature ever recorded at Central Park was -15 degrees on Feb. 9, 1934. LaGuardia, Newark and John F. Kennedy airports also hit record low temperatures Tuesday. Newark airport dipped to 4 degrees, according to the National Weather Service. A "polar vortex," which typically occurs at the North Pole, has brought some of the coldest weather the U.S. has seen in decades. Temperatures in the Midwest dove as low as 59 degrees below zero with windchill. FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Itsuo InouyeJapan's Magnetic Levitation, or linear motor car MLX01-901A, carrying U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood, runs on a test course of Yamanashi Experiment Center in Tsuru, Japan on Tuesday, May 11, 2010.The Japanese government has promised to lend the United States half of the cost of building the first "Super-Maglev" train, reducing travel time between Baltimore and Washington, D.C. to just 15 minutes. Tokyo is so keen to show off its technology that it will provide loans for half the estimated $8 billion (£5bn) cost of installing the tracks, Japan's Asahi newspaper said on Tuesday. The American federal government is keen on the project, according to Central Japan Railway Co., and state authorities are especially enthusiastic. "The national government has shown interest,” a source at the company said. “But a number of the states in the north-east corridor — such as Maryland — are particularly keen for faster rail links and more advanced technology.” The 37-mile journey between Washington DC and Baltimore presently takes one hour by conventional rail link, and the Japanese government and Central Japan Railway Co. hope to use the project to showcase what it believes will be the transportation technology of the future. Eventually, a 453-mile track linking the US capital with Boston will be constructed. The proposal for the Maglev route was first put forward by Shinzo Abe, the Japanese prime minister, during talks with President Barack Obama in February and interest is increasing among states in the north-east of the US, according to Central Japan Railway Co. "I want to propose that (the United States) introduce the Maglev train system to represent Japan-US cooperation," said Mr Abe at the meeting. Mr Abe has devoted effort to travelling around the world to promote the export of his country's infrastructure technology. The latest proposal for extending a loan to the United States is part of such efforts. Maglev vehicles have no wheels and are propelled along their track through electromagnetic pull – doing away with friction and, hence, providing a smoother and quieter ride at a faster speed. Conventional Maglev technology is already in use on a number of short routes around the world, but is limited to a speed of around 267mph. Japanese "Super-Maglev" trains are already operating on test tracks at speeds of more than 310mph. The latest Series L0 maglev was unveiled in late 2012 and measures nearly 92 feet long – of which 49 feet forms an aerodynamic nose section – and is fitted with 24 seats. A full 16-carriage train will be able to carry 1,000 passengers. The state-of-the-art trains are scheduled to go into use in 2027 and link Shinagawa Station, in central Tokyo, with Nagoya. At present, it takes 90 minutes for a conventional "shinkansen" bullet train to complete the journey between that two stations, although that will be cut to 40 minutes by the new technology. The aim is to extend the line to Osaka by 2045 and the cost of the new lines has been put at Y8.44 trillion (£64 billion). The Japanese government is hoping to have the US maglev operational within the next decade and that it will serve to encourage other parts of the US and countries around the world to purchase Japanese mass transit technology.    FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Philippe WojazerThe Eurasia Group is out with its annual Top 10 Risks of 2014, and it seems that for the first time since 2008, geopolitical fears top economic ones. "The realities of a G-Zero order, a world of geopolitical creative destruction without global leadership, are evident," Eurasia Group writes in its report. "There are tensions between China and Japan in the East China Sea, elite-level executions in North Korea, Russia flexing its muscles in neighboring Ukraine and beyond, and everyone fighting with everyone else in the Middle East (some things don’t change). All of which is changing the geopolitical map quite aside from the role of the world’s only superpower." So here are the top 10 things to keep you up at night. All are quotes from the report. 1. America’s troubled alliances There is, however, a notable decline in US foreign policy. Some of this is structural—too many increasingly influential countries with which to coordinate effectively; a distracted Europe led by Germany (with geo-economic and bilateral sensibilities) rather than a more geopolitically aligned  UK and France; and emerging markets, particularly Russia and China, more willing to challenge US preferences abroad. Some of it reflects changes in the US domestic landscape: Voters now offer less support for an ambitious foreign policy, and growing income inequality persuades large numbers of Americans that they don’t benefit from US engagement abroad. Some of the issue is specific to the Obama administration, with a tactical and risk-averse approach to foreign policy along with a weak (and not well-trusted) second-term foreign policy team. Add in a handful of significant missteps—regarding Syria, the response to the NSA/Snowden affair, and the need for domestic focus on congressional infighting and the Obamacare rollout fiasco—and you have the makings of a perfect US foreign policy storm. 2. Diverging markets Voters in six of the largest emerging markets—Brazil, Colombia, India, Indonesia, South Africa, and Turkey— will go to the polls in 2014 to choose lawmakers and presidents. In all six countries, the incumbent party will have ruled for a decade or more. But since coming to power, few incumbents will have faced an electoral cycle as bruising as this. The emerging market world is lurching into a new cycle of political challenges as slowing growth, sputtering economic models, and rising demands from newly enfranchised middle classes create heightened uncertainty. And as recent protests in Brazil, Turkey, Colombia, and even Russia have shown, frustrated expectations among new middle classes can quickly find expression in the streets. 3. The new China The biggest risks economically are in the financial sector, where the leadership recognizes significant problems with bank solvency and is likely to proceed with removing moral hazard in the banking system to lay the foundation for tougher liberalizations over the coming years. To do that, they must make clear what is guaranteed by the government and what isn’t, which requires more tolerance for outright defaults on bad loans. Beijing hopes it can smoothly navigate a transition to a normalized banking sector, but that will be difficult without triggering a larger credit event. Yet politicians are becoming more tolerant of these risks, and with key officials involved in financial reform such as Wang Qishan and Zhou Xiaochuan set to retire in 2017, these changes will be among the regime’s most front-loaded. 4. Iran We believe that the P5+1 (the five permanent members of the UN Security Council plus Germany) and Iran will probably reach a final deal (60% chance). Iran’s economy is in dire straits, and November’s interim agreement offered scant sanctions relief. Tehran is incentivized to remain flexible and agree to an end-state deal that would provide a real economic boost. The probability of a deal creates significant risks in itself, especially given sharper tensions between Iran and Saudi Arabia, the expanding proxy war in Iraq, and the negative impact of a steep decline in oil prices on petrostates (more on that with risk #5). But that other 40% is still a very big number, and it’s worth looking at   what happens if diplomacy fails. 5. Petrostates The unconventional energy revolution has already had important geopolitical implications. It created supply space that allowed sanctions to take half of Iran’s oil exports off the market without an economically damaging increase in prices, and it made deepened engagement with the US look more attractive to China’s new leaders than it did to their predecessors.Over the past few years, though, disruption events have offset much of the effect of volume growth, limiting the impact on producers. In 2014, this will change, with an acceleration of spare capacity growth, bearish price pressures, and heightened competition among producers more generally. 6. Strategic data The internet will fragment even more in 2014, national champions will become more dominant actors in data-driven sectors in many of the world’s key economies, and costs of doing business for competitors that are, or hope to be, global will increase. As cyber-security becomes a bigger vulnerability, and cyber-mastery a greater economic opportunity, these inefficiencies are set to grow. 7. Al Qaeda 2.0 In the past two years, as the center of gravity of political mobilization shifted from North Africa into the Gulf and the Levant, we have witnessed a powerful resurgence of Sunni extremism and the Al Qaeda brand. The failure of democratic transitions across the region is reinforcing Al Qaeda’s narrative that Western-style democracy is not suitable for the Muslim world. More importantly, the Syrian conflict has turned into a powerful magnet for jihadist recruitment, not unlike Afghanistan in the 1980s and Iraq following the ouster of Saddam Hussein. The extremist message is gaining traction across the Levant and in North Africa as well. 8. The Middle East’s expanding unrest Stabilization in the Middle East is highly unlikely in 2014. The Russian-brokered deal that imposes international control over Assad’s chemical weapons stockpile has removed the war in Syria from Western headlines, and the restoration of baseline stability in Egypt by military head Abdelfattah el Sisi has shifted focus from that arena as well. However, the Middle East, gripped by instability for the past three years, has yet to reach bottom. 9.  The capricious Kremlin The implications of an all-powerful leader with a shrinking support base and a flair for the unpredictable are worrisome. Policy has already become more erratic and lacking in strategic vision. Disciplined monetary and fiscal policies are offset by other more retrograde moves: the recent decision to merge Russia’s best business-oriented court with the heavily politicized supreme court, for example. Or Putin’s bid to grant the investigative committee, run by a loyalist, freedom to pursue tax cases against businesses. Or the sudden dismemberment of Russia’s state-owned (but reasonably professional) news organization Ria Novosti to be replaced by a more tightly controlled outfit run by an ultra-nationalist friend of the president. And though the technocratic elites are grumbling, Putin isn’t yet listening. During 2014, as the economic picture remains grim, Russia’s investment climate will suffer from greater policy unpredictability. 10. Turkey Among emerging markets, stability in Turkey is especially vulnerable from a range of directions. In particular, Turkey is facing serious spillover effects from the ongoing civil war in Syria and a reemergence of the Kurdish insurgency; and Erdogan’s increasingly emotional and aggressive behavior threatens to further unhinge market and investor confidence. Red herrings: 1. U.S. domestic politics: "This year will be much less politically volatile, with further upside market implications." 2. Europe: "Although anti-European parties are gaining traction politically, they are still not in a position to challenge for power or even determine ruling coalitions except in a couple of countries." 3. Syria: "The country’s nearly three-year civil war will persist, but there’s not a chance that Syria will become a larger global security or market risk this year." 4. North Korea: "The odds of all-out conflagration on the Korean peninsula remain low-ish for 2014. Kim and the remaining elites around him are aware that a major conflict would destroy their country." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jim YoungGood morning! Here's what you need to know. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Edgar SuModels present the Huawei Ascend P6 Android-based smartphone during their launch at the CommunicAsia communication and information technology exhibition in Singapore June 19, 2013.LONDON (Reuters) - The number of smartphones and tablet computers shipped with Google's Android operating system will break the 1 billion barrier this year, research group Gartner said on Tuesday. Android, which is installed on products made by Samsung, HTC, Sony and many other manufacturers, is forecast to reach 1.1 billion users in 2014, up 26 percent on last year, with the strongest demand in emerging markets. Apple's iOS and Mac OS operating systems are expected to be in 344 million new iPhones, iPads and Macs this year, Gartner added, representing a 28 percent jump on the number of devices shipped in 2013. "There is no doubt that there is a volume-versus-value equation, with Android users purchasing lower-cost devices compared to Apple users," Gartner analyst Annette Zimmerman said in a statement on Tuesday. Microsoft's Windows operating system, which dominates the PC and notebook segments, is forecast to be in 360 million new devices, up from 328 million in 2013. Growth in the PC and notebook segment has been hit by the popularity of tablet computers, sales of which are forecast to increase by 47 percent this year to 263 million, according to Gartner. "Users continue to move away from the traditional PC as it becomes more of a shared-content creation tool, while the greater flexibility of tablets, hybrids and lighter notebooks address users' increasingly different usage demands," Gartner research director Ranjit Atwal said. Sales of mobile phones are expected to continue to increase, but at a slower pace, with the focus moving away from top-end premium devices to mid-level products, he added. Gartner said it expects combined global shipments of all devices to reach 2.48 billion units this year, up 7.6 per cent on 2013. (Reporting by Paul Sandle; Editing by David Goodman) (This story was refiled to fix Google Reuters instrument code in first para) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Thierry RogeGoogle joined Monday with automakers General Motors, Audi, Honda and Hyundai in a new partnership to bring the Android mobile system to vehicles. The companies, with semiconductor firm Nvidia, announced the formation of the Open Automotive Alliance (OAA), an industry group "committed to bringing the Android platform to cars starting in 2014," according to a statement. "The OAA is dedicated to a common platform that will drive innovation, and make technology in the car safer and more intuitive for everyone," the statement added. "This open development model and common platform will allow automakers to more easily bring cutting-edge technology to their drivers, and create new opportunities for developers to deliver powerful experiences for drivers and passengers in a safe and scalable way." The announcement comes with automakers looking at new technologies for the connected car, to bring navigation, entertainment and other applications to vehicles. Some automakers are looking at developing their own platforms, while others are considering platforms like Apple's iOS or BlackBerry-owned QNX. But Monday's announcement looks to put Google and Android in the driver's seat. “Millions of people are already familiar with Android and use it everyday,” said Google vice president Sundar Pichai. “The expansion of the Android platform into automotive will allow our industry partners to more easily integrate mobile technology into cars and offer drivers a familiar, seamless experience so they can focus on the road." Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
Agence France PresseA Toyota Fuel Cell Concept Vehicle Is Displayed During Press Event At The Mandalay Bay Convention Center For The 2014 International CES On January 6, 2014 In Las Vegas, Nevada.Toyota said Monday it plans to launch a fuel-cell car in the United States next year, declaring the hydrogen vehicle with zero emissions "the car of the future." Toyota Motor Sales vice president Bob Carter said the initial market will be California, together with an initiative to establish hydrogen refueling stations in key regions of the state. "In 2015, we will bring this car to market," Carter said in the announcement at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas. The vehicle, yet to be named, would be a "zero-emission, electric-drive, mid-size, four-door sedan." "Functionally, this is a regular car," he added. The streamlined design is to maximize oxygen intake for the fuel-cell process. It will be able to travel 300 miles (480 kilometers) on a single fueling, which would take three to five minutes. While car makers have long touted the advantages of fuel cells, high production costs and a lack of fuel stations have held back the technology. Carter said however that Toyota had been getting results from its major investments and added that "we believe we can bring it in at a very reasonable price for a lot of people." Government initiatives in California were making progress in getting hydrogen fueling stations in needed areas, he added. "The issue of infrastructure is not so much about how many, but rather location, location, location," he said. "Fuel cells will be in our future sooner than many people believe... and in much greater numbers than anyone expected." Toyota unveiled a prototype last year at the Tokyo auto show, but on Monday offered more details for its plans for the US market. Honda is also expected to roll out a fuel-cell car in the US market in 2015, and other automakers are working on the technology, which emits only water vapor as exhaust. Honda already has a fuel-cell car, the FCX Clarity, available on a small scale in a limited number of markets. Carter said that Toyota and California officials plan to add 20 new fuel stations by 2015 to the 10 existing ones. The goal is to have about 100 in the state, and to have a station within a six-minute drive of an owner's home or business. "This infrastructure thing is going to happen," he said. "I believe this vehicle will be the car of the future." It is expected to launch in Japan at about the same time. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
PoliceFormer UBS banker Raoul Weil is seen in a booking photo after his arrival at the Broward Sheriff's Office in Fort Lauderdale, Florida December 13, 2013. MIAMI (Reuters) - A former high-ranking UBS banker charged with helping Americans dodge taxes through secret Swiss bank accounts is expected to plead not guilty on Tuesday to tax fraud conspiracy in federal court in Florida. Raoul Weil, a 54-year-old Swiss citizen and former head of global wealth management at UBS &lt;UBSN.VX&gt;, was charged five years ago with helping about 17,000 Americans conceal $20 billion in numbered accounts at the bank. He initially disputed the charges and was declared a fugitive a few months later but was arrested on a warrant from Interpol in mid-October while on vacation in Bologna, Italy. Weil's appearance in federal court in Fort Lauderdale on Tuesday will be his second since he was extradited from Italy last month. He was granted a $10.5 million bond pending his arraignment, when he appeared in shackles and a gray prison jumpsuit on December 16. Lawyers for UBS whistleblower Bradley Birkenfeld, the bank employee who revealed the tax fraud conspiracy to U.S. authorities in 2007, fear that Weil may be negotiating a "sweetheart" deal" that would spare him from a trial and ultimately shield secret account holders and other bankers from prosecution. The lawyers, who note that Birkenfeld worked directly under Weil when he headed UBS's former cross-border banking business, have been highly critical of what they often describe as the U.S. government's failure to prosecute UBS and some of its former top executives. "Weil can clearly bargain inside information he has that could be embarrassing to American officials or institutions for leniency," said Stephen Kohn, a Birkenfeld lawyer who also heads the Washington, D.C.-based National Whistleblowers Center. "Weil knows where all the skeletons are buried," Kohn added. "The Justice Department must work closely with the IRS and Department of State to make sure that every person guilty of tax evasion in the UBS America's program are identified and prosecuted," he said. Aaron Marcu, lead attorney for Weil, says his client has consistently denied wrongdoing in the case, however. "Mr. Weil will appear in court in Ft. Lauderdale on Tuesday and intends to plead not guilty," Marcu of Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP said in an email to Reuters on Monday. "We look forward to presenting our case in court, where we expect Mr. Weil to be exonerated," he added. If convicted, Weil faces up to five years in prison for conspiracy to commit tax fraud. In a case that shook Swiss banking to the core, UBS paid a record $780 million fine in 2009 and agreed to hand over the names of U.S. clients with secret accounts, breaking Switzerland's vaunted tradition of banking secrecy to avoid feared criminal charges against the bank or other executives. Birkenfeld, who knew the inner workings of UBS and spilled many secrets about his former employer's dealings with U.S. clients, won a record-setting $104 million reward from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service for exposing the UBS tax fraud conspiracy. But he was jailed for 30 months after the government said he withheld information about a billionaire U.S. client. The reward for Birkenfeld came as U.S. and European authorities were investigating a wide range of tax evasion cases involving people with accounts in Switzerland, a longstanding bastion of banking secrecy that is being forced to change. (Editing by Tom Brown and Eric Walsh) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Dominick ReuterA police vehicle drives through a flooded street during a winter nor'easter snow storm in Scituate, Massachusetts, January 3, 2014.In a new note out titled Is The Economy In For A Deep Freeze? Goldman's Kris Dawsey examines the impact of harsh cold weather on the economy. Dawsey notes that cold weather does have a negative impact, and that it's likely to impact this Friday's jobs report. Construction employment, for example, is negatively impacted by cold weather. December auto sales — which came in weak — may have been one victim of the temperature. From the note: A potential concern is that recent warmer winters may have distorted seasonal factors for weather-sensitive series to expect a smaller decline in economic activity during the winter months. If so, even normal winter weather could result in weak seasonally-adjusted data. We do not find substantial evidence that this is the case. Adverse weather so far this winter<U+2015>including record low temperatures set in parts of the country<U+2015>has focused attention on the potential impact on economic data. For instance, our auto analysts note that disappointing December sales could in some part be attributed to unfavorable weather. Regarding the near-term data calendar, we expect that colder-than-normal weather during the survey period for the December payroll report probably pushed employment growth below its recent trend. (Our preliminary forecast is for a 175,000 gain in total payrolls to be released this Friday.) Early-January snowstorms affecting the Northeast and Midwest have also been in focus. However, these snowstorms will probably not have a major impact on January employment data. For one, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's (NOAA) Regional Snowfall Index<U+2015>a measure of snowstorm severity on an increasing scale of 1 to 5<U+2015>the most recent snowstorms ranked only a 1 for the Northeast and a 2 for the Ohio River Valley. In addition, the snowstorm occurred fairly early in the month, leaving plenty of time until the end of the payroll survey period. Despite this, the January data might nonetheless be distorted by extreme cold temperatures before the month is through. Big picture, this doesn't sound like a huge thing to be concerned about, but more something to note while examining the data. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Juan Medina(L to R) Spain's King Juan Carlos, Princess Letizia, Crown Prince Felipe, Queen Sofia, Infanta Elena (2nd R) and Infanta Cristina (R) watch a military parade during Spain's National Day in Madrid October 12, 2008. MADRID (Reuters) - A Spanish judge charged Princess Cristina - younger daughter of King Juan Carlos - with tax fraud and money laundering, possibly paving the way to an unprecedented trial of a member of the royal family, the Superior Justice Tribunal of the Balearic Islands said on Tuesday. After a lengthy investigation, Palma de Mallorca Examining Magistrate Jose Castro said in a 200-page ruling there was evidence that Cristina, 48, had committed crimes and summoned her to appear in court on March 8. The princess's husband, former Olympic handball player Inaki Urdangarin, has been charged with fraud, tax evasion, falsifying documents and embezzlement of 6 million euros ($8 million) in public funds through his charitable foundation which put on sports business conferences in Mallorca and elsewhere in Spain. The princess and Urdangarin both deny wrongdoing. The case is one of many high-level corruption scandals in Spain that have undermined Spanish faith in public institutions at a time of severe economic crisis marked by deep cuts in public spending. Opinion of the royal family in particular has sunk to its lowest level ever. A Sigma Dos poll published on January 5 showed more than 83 percent of Spaniards think the royal family has mishandled the Urdangarin case and an unprecedented 62 percent want the once-popular King Juan Carlos to abdicate. Judge Castro, who opened his investigation into the royal couple three years ago, has struggled to make charges stick against Princess Cristina. In April last year he ruled there was evidence that she had aided and abetted Urdangarin. A higher court threw out those charges in May, saying the evidence was not sufficient, but gave Castro more time to investigate an accusation of tax fraud. In bringing the new charges, Castro went against the recommendations of the anti-corruption prosecutor on the case who in December argued there was no evidence she committed crimes. In Spain the prosecutor and the judge on a case carry out separate investigations and may disagree on proceedings. The princess is expected to appeal the charges and they could be thrown out again, or the judge may be given a period of several months to build his case ahead of trial. While they have been under investigation, the princess and her husband have ceased to participate in public appearances. She and the couple's four children moved last year to Geneva where she works for a Spanish bank's charity. Urdangarin remains in Spain. The case is centered on Urdangarin's non-profit Noos Foundation. He is accused of using his powerful connections to win public contracts to put on events in Mallorca and elsewhere in Spain. The judge has said there is evidence that the foundation overcharged for organizing conferences and then hid the proceeds abroad. (Reporting by Fiona Ortiz) FREE AppDownload
BEIJING, Jan 7 (Reuters) - China's State Council said it has temporarily lifted a ban on selling foreign video game consoles, paving the way for firms like Sony Corp, Microsoft Corp and Nintendo Co Ltd to enter a nearly $14 billion dollar market. The suspension of the 14-year-old ban permits "foreign-invested enterprises" to make games consoles within Shanghai's free trade zone and sell them in China after inspection by cultural departments, the government said in a statement posted on its website on Monday. China banned gaming consoles in 2000, citing their adverse effect on the mental health of its youth. Consoles, however, have long been available albeit illegally, but online PC gaming remains more popular, with Internet cafes often crowded with rows upon rows of patrons. The State Council did not say how long the suspension would last. It also did not specify the requirements for a foreign-invested enterprise. Government officials were not immediately available to clarify the ruling. Nintendo, which makes the Wii console, told Reuters the ruling changed little from when China's government had said in September last year that it planned to lift the ban. "This just means one step of the process has been taken," said Yasuhiro Minagawa, Nintendo's Japan-based public relations manager. Sony and Microsoft, makers of the globally popular PlayStation and Xbox consoles, were not immediately available to comment. In September, Sony had said it was looking at entering the Chinese market with "great interest". China's video game market grew 38 percent from 2012 to reach 83.17 billion yuan ($13.74 billion) in 2013, according to data released at the annual China games industry conference in December. The ban on consoles has left PC games with almost two-thirds of the market. Browser gaming accounted for 15.4 percent and mobile gaming was 13.5 percent, the data showed. Games consoles have been made in China for export for many years, with Foxconn, the trading name of Hon Hai Precision Industry Co, making the devices for Sony, Nintendo and Microsoft. ($1 = 6.0526 Chinese yuan) (Additional reporting by Sophie Knight and Reiji Murai in TOKYO; Editing by Miral Fahmy) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Francois LenoirECB Chief Mario Draghi should be very concerned by the latest inflation numbers. Is Europe heading towards deflation? That's been a hot topic of conversation lately and fresh numbers just out from Eurostat should add to the concern. Check out the trends of both CPI and core CPI (excluding food, energy, alcohol, and tobacco). The inflation numbers are a steady march downward. Core is actually at its lowest reading yet. The big fear in Europe used to be that the economy would collapse. Now the big fear is that Europe is going to become Japan, an economic bloc mired in deflation and horrible growth. Here's the snapshot of today's data. Eurostat FREE AppDownload
Ireland is back! There's huge demand for Irish debt in its first auction since exiting its bailout. From FastFT: An overflowing order book north of €13bn for Ireland's 10 year bond sale - its first debt sale since formally exiting an international bailout programme last month – has allowed bankers to tighten the pricing of the deal. Dublin's treasurers had intended to cap the size of the deal at about €3bn-€3.5bn, but the ravenous demand could allow it increase it markedly and make a big dent in its funding requirements for 2014 by early January. This continues the bailout success story that is Ireland. Jamie McGeever of Reuters posted this chart showing the spread between Irish borrowing costs and French borrowing costs. They're shrinking quite rapidly, an inciation that Ireland is nearly on par with "core" Europe. The premium investors demand for holding Irish 10y bonds vs French 10y bonds is now less than 90 bps: pic.twitter.com/5HCHml8K54 FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Yesterday it was the Midwest that got slammed by the Polar Vortex. Today it's the East Coast. According to NY1, temperatures in NYC right now are 9 or 10 degrees, depending on where you're measuring. With the wind chill it feels between -7 or -12. This map from the National Weather Service shows the range of temperatures across the Northeast. National Weather Service Meanwhile in Washington DC, the Temperature is 7 degrees, and feels like negative 6. FREE AppDownload
BEIJING (AP) — China will allow the creation of up to five privately financed banks this year to support economic growth by gradually opening the state-run industry, the country's banking regulator said. Analysts including the World Bank say an overhaul of Chinese banks that lend little to entrepreneurs is urgently needed to achieve the ruling Communist Party's goals of making the economy more productive. The China Banking Regulatory Commission said in a statement Monday it would enlarge the role of private capital in banking. It said that would include a closely supervised "pilot project" to allow creation of three to five privately financed banks. The moves are aimed at promoting "modernization of governance," the agency said. It gave no details of who would be allowed to set up a bank or in what lines of business they can compete. Communist leaders are trying to inject more competition into China's economy while retaining control of key industries. They also are trying to reduce reliance on trade and investment to drive growth by encouraging more domestic consumption. China's economic growth tumbled to a two-decade low of 7.5 percent in the second quarter of last year, adding to the urgency of pushing through reforms. Growth rebounded to 7.8 percent in the third quarter but the Cabinet has said it expects growth for the full year of 7.6 percent, which would be the economy's weakest performance since 1999. A reform plan issued in November promised to give the market a decisive role in allocating resources and to open more industries to private and foreign competitors. But it affirmed that state ownership will remain the core of the economy. Any change to China's banks will be politically fraught because they are the ruling party's most powerful tool in controlling the economy and supporting politically favored companies with low-cost credit. The government of President Xi Jinping already has begun gradual steps to make the banking industry more responsive to the market. In its first major reform, Xi's government announced an end in July to controls on interest rates banks charge on loans. That might spur growth by allowing borrowers to shop around for lower rates. The banking regulator also said it would "explore the gradual relaxation of barriers to foreign entry into the industry" and to allowing foreign institutions to handle China's tightly controlled yuan. It gave no details or a timetable. The announcement comes as Beijing tries to rein in a surge in commercial credit and borrowing by local governments and to tighten control over informal lending on which entrepreneurs rely for financing. Private sector analysts estimate total credit grew by more than 18 percent last year, well above the central bank's 13 percent target. Debts owed by local governments soared 70 percent over the past three years to 17.7 trillion yuan ($2.9 trillion), according to an audit released last month. It said debt still was "rising relatively fast" and called on local leaders to tighten control over borrowing. Economists say the size of the debt is manageable but have warned the rapid increase is dangerous for the financial system. ___ China Banking Regulatory Commission (in Chinese): www.cbrc.gov.cn Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
The latest asset allocation survey from AAII showed a new high in demand for stocks and new lows for both cash and bonds.  Stocks experienced a notable jump to a 68% allocation from just 64% in November.  Bond holdings were down 2% to just 15% and cash holdings were down 2% to 16.5%. Historically, stocks have averaged a 60% allocation.   The 68% level is not only high historically, but is also the highest level since July 2007 just before the S&amp;P 500 peaked. PragCap Source: AAII FREE AppDownload
REUTERSSouthern Bluefin Tuna, the primary catch for the luxury Japanese sashimi trade, is inspected at a Tokyo fish market.There hasn't been much trading yet in 2014, but the trading we have seen has been lackluster or to the downside. Japan had its second day of trading for the year, and stocks fell 0.59%. It's nothing too huge, it's just in keeping with the tone overall for world markets, and Asia in particular, which has been weak. European stocks aren't doing anything. U.S. futures are a tiny bit in the green. Things are pretty quiet in the metals and currency worlds today. Today in the U.S. we get November Trade Balance Data, which will be useful for computing Q4 GDP. FREE AppDownload
