I have a deal with my colleague Jay. About 2 or 3 times per week, he picks up breakfast for me on his way into the office. In exchange, I pay for his breakfast on those days. When he hands me breakfast (usually a platter of eggs, bacon, and sausage) he tells me how much I owe him. I find this annoying, because I have to fish out cash from my wallet. Often we don't have the exact amount, or I just don't have any cash on me at all.  It would be really great if Jay were on Venmo, the excellent app made for easy, small-denomination friend-to-friend payments. It's perfect for settling up checks, and other shared purchases. Every day, a situation that requires the use of physical cash, feels more and more like an anachronism. It's like having to listen to music on a CD. John Maynard Keynes famously referred to gold (well, the gold standard specifically) as a "barbarous relic."  Well the new barbarous relic is physical cash. Like gold, cash is physical money. Like gold, cash is still fetishized. Steve Marcus/Reuters And like gold, cash is a costly drain on the economy. First, there's the simple cost of handling cash . A study done at Tufts in 2013 estimated that cash costs the economy $200 billion. Their study included the nugget that consumers spend, on average, 28 minutes per month just traveling to the point where they obtain cash (ATM, etc.). But this is just first-order problem with cash. The real problem, which economists are starting to recognize, is that paper cash is an impediment to effective monetary policy, and therefore economic growth. This Spring, the economist Kenneth Rogoff published a paper titled: "Costs and Benefits to Phasing Out Paper Currency." The key argument is this: In our world of ultra-low inflation, it may be necessary for central banks to cut rates to below zero. However if that happens, consumers can always take physical cash out of the banking system to avoid paying negative rates. In a world of purely digital money, the central bank could set interest rates wherever was appropriate. Here's Rogoff (emphasis ours): Paper currency has two very distinct properties that should draw our attention. First, it is precisely the existence of paper currency that makes it difficult for central banks to take policy interest rates much below zero, a limitation that seems to have become increasingly relevant during this century. As Blanchard et al. (2010) point out, today’s environment of low and stable inflation rates has drastically pushed down the general level of interest rates. The low overall level, combined with the zero bound, means that central banks cannot cut interest rates nearly as much as they might like in response to large deflationary shocks. If all central bank liabilities were electronic, paying a negative interest on reserves (basically charging a fee) would be trivial. But as long as central banks stand ready to convert electronic deposits to zero-interest paper currency in unlimited amounts, it suddenly becomes very hard to push interest rates below levels of, say, -0.25 to -0.50 percent, certainly not on a sustained basis. Hoarding cash may be inconvenient and risky, but if rates become too negative, it becomes worth it. Rogoff isn't the first to go down these lines. University of Michigan Economist Miles Kimball has been writing for awhile about how the zero-lower bound could be eliminated by going to an all digital money system. So not only is cash cumbersome like gold (time consuming, physically costly) it's an increasingly problematic component of the monetary system. Like gold, it's a form of hard money that's growth-constraining and deflationary. So yes, cash is pretty to look at, and everyone would love to one day have a gigantic pile of it. But it's time to ditch this barbarous relic and have a monetary system fit for the 21st century. FREE AppDownload
Along with 3 billion other viewers around the world, I plan to tune in for the month-long World Cup to see whether the 22-year old Neymar can withstand the colossal pressure that has been put upon his shoulders to deliver a win for team Brazil. Every time I turn on my television set, I’m using World Cup-related energy. And that’s just the start. Flying in teams, trainers, equipment, World Cup personnel and the estimated 500,000-plus fans will use enormous volumes of jet fuel. Add to that powering the stadiums on game days, moving millions of spectators around host-country Brazil, and transmitting the event to billions of viewers worldwide, and you end up with millions of tons of carbon dioxide added to the atmosphere. So while the 2014 World Cup is going to be bigger than ever -- it’s shaping up to be the most watched,most lucrative and expensive tournament in soccer history -- it’s also going to be one of the biggest energy-consuming, greenhouse gas-spewing World Cups in history. Think about this as the music blasts through the stadium and the fans cheer and scream and the players race up and down the field chasing the ball: The 2014 World Cup tournament will burn through enough energy before it’s over to fuel almost every one of the 260 million cars and trucks in the United States for an entire day, or the equivalent of what 560,000 cars use in a year. Related Article: The Top 5 Non-Energy Sources of Climate Change Estimating the total energy required to mount such a massive operation with any precision is a fool’s errand, but let’s take a look at some numbers to get a sense of scale. Oilprice.com FIFA did its own fascinating study of the carbon footprint that will be created by setting up and running its broadcast television operation. It found that the biggest contributor – 60 percent – is international flights for staff members. The other 40 percent comes from all the trucks needed to transport cables, cameras and furniture, and the energy required to operate all of the electronics. All told, FIFA’s TV operations will contribute 24,670 tons of CO2 to the atmosphere – the same impact of burning 2.8 million gallons of gas, or 13,250 tons of coal. FIFA also tried to estimate its carbon footprint for staging the tournament’s matches, which wraps in the electricity needed for stadiums, fan festivals, banquets, concession stands, training sites, travel for ticket holders, and team hotels. That number came to 2.72 million tons of CO2 equivalent. That’s like using up306 million gallons of gasoline or burning 1.46 million tons of coal. What’s the point of the study? FIFA says to figure out where it can do better next time. Just a 10 percent decline in international staff, for example, reduces the carbon footprint by 6 percent. TVs and Tea Kettles None of these numbers include other sources of Cup-related energy use, like building new transportation infrastructure and stadiums. Related Article: Here are the World's Five Most Important Oil Fields And speaking of stadiums, while everyone would probably love to attend the final match in Rio de Janeiro’s famous Maracana stadium, the vast majority of us will be watching at home. Which means we’re contributing to the Cup’s carbon footprint, too. A spike in energy use is likely to occur in places when millions of people turn on their TVs at the same time to watch a match. For example, in the United Kingdom, the record for an energy surge during a TV program occurred during the 1990 World Cup, when England went to a shootout against West Germany in the semi-final. (Incidentally, West Germany prevailed and went on to win the trophy. West Germany’s title run was led by Jurgen Klinsmann, who is now coaching the U.S. national team.) During that match, the UK National Grid experienced a spike of 2,800 megawatts of demand, as people across England tuned in to watch the game’s climax. Other significant power surges in the UK occurred during England’s 2002 quarter-final match against Brazil (2,570 MW surge), and the 2011 royal weddingof Prince William and Kate Middleton (2,400 MW surge). In fact, it’s relatively common for the UK to experience a spike in power demand during big soccer matches. National Grid operators have become accustomed to forecasting higher electricity demand during games, according to its operations manager, Jon Fenn. Not only does electricity consumption spike from millions of TV sets, a surge is felt most acutely during halftime or just after the final whistle, when everyone heads to the kitchen to turn on electric tea kettles or grab a snack from the fridge. “It must be one of the few jobs where watching World Cup matches is essential to your work rather than a distraction, because we need to know to the second when half time and full time occur to be ready for the surges in demand,” Fenn told The Telegraph in an interview before the 2010 World Cup. The 2014 World Cup will be transmitted to every country in the world and could potentially be the most watched sporting event in history. Now we know it could set new records in terms of greenhouse gas emissions, too. By Nick Cunningham and James Stafford of Oilprice.com FREE AppDownload
Sterling, with the help of Carney's warning that a rate hike could be delivered sooner than the market thinks, remained sympatico with the dollar-bloc. The New Zealand dollar led the majors, and was rewarded for the hawkishness of its central bank as well. The yen moved with the dollar-bloc, gaining almost 0.5% against the US dollar.  The impulses did not come from US yields, where the benchmark 10-year Treasury note was flat. It is true that US shares traded heavily, in the first of the week, the Nikkei itself closed slightly higher on the week. The demand for peripheral European assets failed to lift the euro. It appears to have been mitigated the wider differentials. The premium the US offers over Germany on 2-year paper is at its highest level in seven years. The ECB's measures have driven EONIA below the effective Fed funds rate for the first time in six months. The euro's bounce off $1.35 failed to be very convincing. We look for a push below there in the coming days. The year's low was set in early February just below $1.3480. A dovish Fed could spur a bounce, but the market seems to be inclined to sell into bounces still. This psychology may be neutralized on a move into the $1.3580-$1.3620 band. The 200-day moving average is slowing rising from the $1.3660 area. Sterling is the market's darling. In the futures market, the speculative gross long sterling position is the larger that the gross long euro, yen and Swiss franc positions put together. Carney's unexpectedly hawkish comment saw sterling approach the $1.70 level again (similar high in early May) before stalling). We look for penetration in the days ahead, perhaps fueled by sterling purchases against the euro (and yen). Sterling peak since the end of 2008 was in early 2009 near $1.7045, but a convincing break would likely target the $1.7250-$1.7350 area, from a technical perspective. The immediate technical tone is strong. The 5-day has crossed back above the 20-day average. The MACDs are turning up. The note of caution comes from sterling finishing last week above its upper Bollinger Band. In a pullback, support may initially be seen above $1.6900. The divergent monetary policy trajectories are pushing the euro lower against sterling. In the medium term, the goal is the 2012 low near GBP0.7750.  The more immediate target is GBP0.7880. Here too, the Bollinger Band has been broken on a weekly closing basis, and this signal favors a little patience. Technically, the dollar appears set to edge higher against the yen. More likely, it can churn higher in narrow trading ranges. On the upside there seems to be resistance levels every 20 pips from JPY102.00. It is important that the JPY101.60 area held. There appears to be an increased influence coming from the crosses. A key level to monitor in the euro against the yen is the 200-day moving average (~JPY138.80). The ECB's initiatives appear to have trumped Abenomics as the euro has not sustained a break of its 200-day moving average against the yen since before Abe was elected. The Canadian and Australian dollars look vulnerable, though the former's strength over the past week surprised us. The US dollar's streak of lower lows came to a halt with the upticks before the weekend. The greenback fell to almost CAD1.0840 and provided this holds it would help solidify the lower end of the greenback's range over last six weeks. Initial resistance is seen just below CAD1.09. The Australian dollar exceeded our favorable outlook. It approached the year's high set in April near $0.9460. There was not follow through after the outside up-day was posted on June 12. A break now of $0.9370 would likely signal a corrective phase rather than consolidation, in which case the next target would be around a cent lower. The Mexican peso was considerably weaker than we expected. In the recent past, surprise rate cuts by the central bank spurred a quick drop in the peso and then a strong recovery. It was the same thing this time, except for the recovery. The US dollar took out the significant downtrend line drawn off the January, February, March and April highs. Technically, the dollar is poised to record another leg up in the coming days. The next target is the MXN13.12-15 area and then MXN13.20. The yield of the US 10-year Treasury note flirted with the downtrend line going back to January, but unlike the dollar against the peso, it was unable to sustain the break.  That trend line comes in near 2.62% though an intra-day high was recorded near 2.66%. On the downside, a move below 2.60% could see slippage toward 2.55%. Most of the technical readings suggest that the price of oil may still advance. However, it did finish the week above the upper Bollinger Band, which warns of a pullback, or at least some sideways trading at the start of the new week. Observations based on speculative positioning in the futures market:  1.  The largest position adjustment in the reporting week ending June 10, was the euro.  Gross longs and gross shorts both changed by more than 10k contracts.  There were only 3 other gross positions that were adjusted by more than 5k contracts.  As has been the recent pattern, the gross euro longs continue to be culled. They fell by about 30% to 43.7k contracts.  As recently as early May, there were 111k gross long euro contracts in speculators' hands.  The gross short position rose by a little more than 10% to 100.9k contracts, which is about a quarter more than in early May.  Since flipping to the short side in early May, the net short position has grown in each of the past four weeks.  2.   We note that this reporting period ended prior to BOE's Carney rate warning that saw sterling futures experience record volume.  The high volume in a rising market suggest new longs were established that are not picked up in this report.  The gross short sterling positions rose for the second week in a row and we suspect that some of the late shorts capitulated.  3.  The net short yen position rose to a new 2-month high of 82.2k contracts.  Longs were pared slightly and just below 12k contracts, it is the third lowest gross long positions since 2003.  Gross shorts increased by 7.3k contracts to 94.1k.  4.  The dollar rose nearly 20 big figures against the Mexican peso during this reporting period, but the peso bulls were not shaken.  The gross longs grew by less than 1k contracts and about 3.3k short gross short contracts were covered.  This resulted in an increase in the net long position to 90.2k contracts.5. In the US 10-year note futures, the bears continued to dominate.  The net short position rose to 71.9k contracts form 43.3k.  This was the result of gross longs shaving 11.2k contracts (to 372k) and the gross shorts adding 17.4k contracts (to 443.9k).          Read more posts on Marc to Market » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Stefan WermuthValeant Pharmaceuticals is trying to acquire Allergan, the maker of Botox. The tactics it's using to do so might end up killing the pharmaceutical industry.  Valeant first approached Allergan in April 2014. It has twice raised its bid, which it is making with hedge-fund manager Bill Ackman. Allergan has so far rejected each of Valeant's three overtures. Valeant's most recent offer was made on May 30.  But Allergan says it isn't rejecting Valeant's bid because of price. It's rejecting Valeant's business model.  Valeant's Business Model Valeant is a pharmaceuticals company now domiciled in Canada. In 2010, Valeant acquired Canadian pharmaceutical company Biovail, and following the acquisition moved its headquarters to Montreal.  As of February, Canada's corporate tax rate was about 26.5% compared to about 40% in the U.S., according to data from KPMG. Bloomberg TVUnder CEO Michael Pearson, the company has executed more than 100 deals as part of a strategy to grow through acquisitions, according to The Wall Street Journal.  On Valeant's first-quarter conference call, Pearson said that in the first quarter alone, the company completed 10 transactions.  Pearson elaborated on what Valeant looks for in an acquisition, saying it looks at cash flow and what he called a "certain return to our shareholders."  When Pearson refers to a "certain return" for shareholders, he walks into a central criticism of Valeant's business model: Namely that Valeant strips costs, including research, development and staff, from the companies it acquires and just sells their finished products. But is low R&amp;D spending sustainable? Allergan's Self-Defense Strategy In a letter to Pearson, Allergan CEO David Pyott said Valeant's latest offer does not include enough "sufficient or certain value to warrant discussions between Allergan and Valeant." In a May 12 letter rejecting Valeant's first increased offer, Pyott said: Valeant's strategy runs counter to Allergan's customer focused approach. In particular, we question how Valeant would achieve the level of cost cuts it is proposing without harming the long-term viability and growth trajectory of our business. For those reasons and others, we do not believe that the Valeant business model is sustainable. One of Allergan's main problems with Valeant's business model is that the company does not invest in research and development. In its latest presentation rejecting Valeant's offer, Allergan said its 2013 R&amp;D costs were equal to about 17% of its revenue, while Valeant's R&amp;D spending was equal to about 2% of revenue.  On Valeant's first-quarter-earnings conference call, Pearson said he expects the company to exit 2014 with R&amp;D spending at about a $200 million a year.  Allergan argues that its R&amp;D spending doesn't result in a bunch of wasted money. The $7 billion it spent on R&amp;D between 1992 and 2013 resulted in about $50 billion in cumulative sales, the firm said. The company also said additional R&amp;D spending will result in $120 billion in additional sales over the next 10 years.  This chart of R&amp;D spending as a percentage of revenue drives home how much less Valeant spends on R&amp;D than some of its biggest pharmaceutical rivals. The Companies / Business Insider Other Skeptics Valeant's aggressiveness has gotten significant attention in the market. Jeremy Levin, former CEO of Teva Pharmaceuticals, told The Wall Street Journal that "Valeant will eventually run out of things to buy ... a company without R&amp;D short term and midterm can be viable, but long term is not."  John Hempton, a noted finance blogger at Bronte Capital, has also expressed concerns about Valeant and is short the stock. He has promised a series of posts analyzing Valeant's financials. Business Insider's Linette Lopez detailed some of the problems with Valeant's ploy, writing that Ackman and Valeant aren't seeking to buy Allergan but swallow it whole and digest it quickly.  Also following Valeant's first offer for Allergan, The Financial Times' John Gapper argued that if the entire pharmaceutical industry adopted Valeant's approach, drug discovery would grind to a halt. Gapper outlined two visions for the pharmaceutical industry, one where companies invest heavily in new drugs and another where R&amp;D spending is cut "to save cash and please Wall Street."  Gapper called it a "moral choice." What Now? Mike Nudelman/Business InsiderFollowing Valeant and Ackman's latest offer, Ackman disclosed in an SEC filing that his Pershing Square fund is preparing a hostile bid for Allergan.  A hostile bid is when a potential acquirer engages directly with the shareholders of the company, rather than the company's board, regarding its takeover proposal.  A hostile bid now seems likely given that Allergan's CEO said Valeant's latest deal isn't worth discussing. Ackman owns nearly 10% of Allergan's stock, and the company has already adopted a so-called poison-pill provision preventing any shareholder from acquiring more than 10% of the company, so his voting sway over Allergan's decision will not increase. This story is unlikely to reach a conclusion soon: Citing analysts at BMO Capital, the FT said the fight could last "well into" 2015.  The Death Of Pharma? Just this week, Merck purchased pharmaceutical company Idenix Pharmaceuticals for $3.85 billion; in its first quarter, Idenix recorded no revenues. And while Merck is certainly betting that Idenix's hepatitis-C drugs in development will be approved, the deal essentially amounts to a one-time R&amp;D expense.  R&amp;D spending is not dead.  But others have started to imitate Valeant's methods for boosting their stock price. The Wall Street Journal notes that Endo Pharmaceuticals has begun to adopt an acquisition strategy similar to Valeant's.  Shares of Endo are up more than 77% over the last year. Valeant's strategy has also been a boon for shareholders, who have seen the stock gain more than eight times since Pearson joined the company as CEO in February 2008.  Whether or not Valeant and Ackman are successful in acquiring Allergan, this deal has raised eyebrows among investors and executives in both the pharmaceutical space and the broader market.  Expect pharmaceuticals companies to start taking closer looks at their strategies before someone else does. FREE AppDownload
J. CrewRetailers are starting to push a new trend in menswear: the short suit.  The ensemble looks like a regular suit from the waist up, with a sport coat over a button-down shirt and sometimes a tie or bowtie. Instead of trousers, however, the suit's bottoms are cropped at the knee.  J. Crew, Topman, Asos, and Barneys are among the retailers selling the short suit this season. They may be taking cues from fashion icon Pharrell Williams, who donned tuxedo shorts to the Academy Awards earlier this year. "It’s definitely having a moment, particularly with younger guys," Jon Patrick, the creative director at menswear company J.Hilburn, told Businessweek.  J. Crew is offering four different kinds of short suits that cost about $400. "We have wanted to make a suit short for a long time but knew it had to be just right for it to look good," reads the product description for one of the suits. "We would like to finally introduce you to the Ludlow short. It has an old-school country club vibe (more 'Gatsby,' less 'Caddyshack') and is almost guaranteed to win the battle for best-dressed at nearly every summer occasion." J. CrewTopman's short suit runs $390. "For a contemporary and stylish silhouette, our skinny fit suits offer a figure hugging and trend-led shape," reads the item's description. TopmanThe U.K.-based fashion brand Reiss sells a pair of khaki suit shorts for $130. "Ensure that even on warm days your style remains sharp," reads the retailer's product description. Reiss recommends pairing the shorts with a plain black crew-neck T, suede driving shoes, and a pair of aviator glasses for a look that says "smart and informal." ReissFor a less traditional look, Barneys New York carries a $859 Comme des Garcons short suit trimmed with chiffon panels. We think it looks pretty bizarre. Barneys New York  This short suit by Asos is definitely less bold, but it's still pretty expensive at $409. Asos FREE AppDownload
It is illegal to trade dollars in the streets of Venezuela, so those who have them are able to make a killing in the underground market, where dollars are worth 11 times the official rate. That, of course, has produced unintended results and consequences for society. One of those, Bloomberg's Anatoly Kurmanaev reports, is that prostitutes and other people with access to dollars are doubling as currency traders. Prostitutes get their greenbacks from sailors carrying them into the country. From Bloomberg: A typical stint with a dollar-paying foreigner would earn a prostitute about 6,800 bolivars in fees and currency exchange arbitrage in the black market. The same service paid in bolivars ... would earn them 3,000 bolivars. “We can make more in two hours here than working in a shop in a month,” said a prostitute who calls herself Giselle, as she sipped a 12-year-old whiskey in Club 440 striptease joint. The prostitutes consider this the only way to get not just decent whiskey but also everyday products like sugar, flour, and other staples. The last time Venezuela published a scarcity index, back in January, one in four basic products was unavailable. People form epic lines to get into grocery stores, only to find their shelves complete empty. Experts are afraid that the underground market that Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro calls "perverse" is turning the country into a place of dollar haves and have-nots. Meanwhile, protests continue in the streets, and Leopoldo Lopez, the leader of the opposition, rots in jail waiting for his trial for treason to begin in August. "I am in jail because I have denounced the Venezuelan government for being corrupt, inefficient, repressive and anti-democratic," he wrote from his cell in April. "I am in jail for calling on the Venezuelan people to go to the streets and exercise our historical and constitutional right to protest until we achieve a political change that guarantees peace, well-being, and progress for the Venezuelan people." Prostitution, for the record, is legal in Venezuela. FREE AppDownload
StreetEasy/WikipediaAlice Walton, an heir to the Walmart fortune and the 14th wealthiest person in the world, just purchased a $25 million condo in New York City, reports the New York Post. The condo, which is located on the 30th and 31st floors of 515 Park Avenue, had been owned by late financier Christopher H. Browne. Browne's East Hamptons estate recently sold for $147 million, making it the most expensive home sale to date in the U.S. Walton's new condo is wonderfully luxurious, with 52 oversized windows offering both city and park views. It boasts 6,286 square feet of space and many special features, including a large media room, a brightly-lit library, and a one bedroom guest apartment that could easily serve as two separate staff suites. FREE AppDownload
Prudential Douglas Elliman Real EstateWould you pay $100 million for this apartment?There have been some pricey home sales in Manhattan recently, but many of city's most expensive properties are still on the market. With the help of Zillow, we've put together a list of the most expensive homes currently for sale in New York City. These apartments feature incredible city views, swanky residential amenities, and more. These homes are listed $60 million and up. By comparison, the median asking price for homes in Manhattan in April 2014 was $1.28 million, according to StreetEasy. FREE AppDownload
Rob Schmitz/Marketplace/American Public RadioThe Ordos Shopping Mall sits empty, much like the rest of the city that surrounds it.China's ghost cities aren't going away. Even as Beijing wants local governments to move away from GDP targeting and is more focused on developing social housing, wasteful construction still plagues China. A report from CLSA's Nicole Wong, cited by The Wall Street Journal, found that the problem lies in the excess supply in China's third-tier cities. Vacancy rates for homes constructed in the past five years stand at 15% but are projected to rise over 20% in 2016-17, according to Wong. Rob Schmitz, China correspondent for Marketplace/American Public Media, recently ran a story titled "China's economic boom leaves a trail of ghost cities." We reached out to Schmitz to get an update on Kangbashi and Yujiapu. Schmitz points out that one of the key differences between visiting Ordos now and back in October 2010 was people's attitudes. Back in 2010, residents of Kangbashi (new city of Ordos) were defensive when the place was dubbed a ghost city, but now many had come to accept it. Schmitz said that many people had abandoned these ghost cities and moved back home. He also points out what China bulls like Stephen Roach have got wrong when they argue that these cities tie into China's urbanization plan. Here is an excerpt from our email interview with Schmitz: Business Insider: How has Ordos changed now from when it first started making headlines a few years ago? Rob Schmitz: I first visited Ordos in October 2010, the same year many other Western journalists had reported on the city. When I returned this year, there were a lot of interesting differences. Back in 2010, the few people who lived there seemed defensive about the Western media labeling the place a ghost city. This time, everyone I spoke to had come to an acceptance that Kangbashi (the proposed new city of Ordos) was most likely going to remain mostly vacant, and many seemed OK with that.  I spoke to one of the largest developers while I was there and he told me that Kangbashi had a population density similar more to a city in Canada or the U.S. than of a city in China, and he thought this was a draw for the city. But my conversations with folks didn't confirm this. I've never seen a city of similar physical size in Canada nor in the U.S. as empty as Kangbashi is today, and most of the people I spoke to during my latest visit didn't seem very happy to be living in a place where most of the buildings were empty. Another big difference between this time and last was that the Ordos government has moved its headquarters to Kangbashi, so there are more people there during the day around the city's civic center. That said, the government of Ordos has actually increased the size of the city since 2010 by building more skyscrapers and infrastructure including a park with a large lake, three sports stadiums, and a skyscraper office park on the banks of the lake which are under construction. I walked through a development of more than a dozen 20-story high-rises built adjacent to this office park, and there were no signs of life. The same developer I mentioned above also expressed concern over the fate of three gigantic sports stadiums built specifically for China's 'Ethnic Minority Traditional Sports Games' of 2015 outside of Kangbashi. It was surprising that after being admonished by China's own state-run press, Ordos' government has continued to build at the same rate as it had done before. Rob Schmitz/Marketplace/American Public MediaAn empty street in front of a vacant residential complex in the city of Kangbashi, Ordos.The last difference from last time is that real estate prices in Kangbashi have plummeted since my visit in 2010, and I met dozens of migrant workers who were renting vacant office spaces as apartments for as low as $65 a month. These spaces weren't built to house people, but one office building I visited was full of migrant workers at night, living in windowless office spaces and using an office bathroom down the hall to bathe. I also visited a government office in charge of mediating disputes between shadow bankers and those who couldn't afford to repay their loans. This is a very big problem in Ordos, as most businesses there would never qualify for a loan from a state bank, and now that the local economy is doing so poorly, many businesses have gone bankrupt. The office was in charge of repossessing whatever assets they could get from those who owed money. Their storage room was full of refrigerators, flat-screen TVs, and shelves full of dozens of bottles of high-priced Baijiu (Rice Wine) which they had seized. BI: Do the people that you meet in these ghost cities have any plans of returning to their hometowns or are they optimistic?  RS: Many have already returned home. Those who are left are looking to make a little money and then leave when the economy finally fizzles out for good. Keep in mind that nearly twenty miles away from Kangbashi (the largely empty city) is Dongsheng, which is known as the old city, and actually has a functioning economy and population, so many people are watching this unfold from there. Rob Schmitz/Marketplace/American Public RadioConstruction work on Yujiapu, planned to be "the financial capital of the world," has been largely put on hold.BI: Some, like Stephen Roach, have argued that these ghost cities can be explained away as part of China's urbanization plan. In your experience, does this add up? RS: Perhaps some of them can, but for the most part, I don't agree with this statement. While it is true that some cities are filling up – the outskirts of Zhengzhou, which the TV program "60 Minutes" profiled a couple of years ago as a ghost town is a good example of a city that has defied early criticisms – other cities like Ordos do not fit neatly into China's urbanization plan. Roach uses the Pudong district of Shanghai as an example of a place that was built, stood empty for a while, and then filled up, the message being other empty cities like Ordos just need time. It's important to remember that 1. Pudong was built in the 1990s, before China had even entered the WTO and was on the cusp of more than a decade of double-digit GDP growth. China's economy today is very different. It's slowing down and China's economic planners are taking the first steps to rebalance the economy from one built on investment-led growth to one built on consumer growth. That's not an easy transition to make, especially for an economy of this size, and it's going to require years of slower economic growth. 2. Pudong is in Shanghai, which is strategically located and is home to one of the world's largest ports. Ordos is in the middle of the desert and is running out of groundwater. If all of these ghost cities and ghost suburbs were part of a master plan hatched in Beijing by the central government, I'd imagine we'd see more affordable housing, as that's what is needed in China. Instead, most of the housing that's been built in these empty districts are luxury condos and villas. I have a hard time believing people will eventually move into these empty complexes in the next five years, especially in the scenario of a cooling economy. The other thing to keep in mind is that many of this new housing isn't built well, and it's hard to imagine them retaining their value over the time it may take for China's economy to return to its glory days. I think another danger is that once housing prices begin to plummet – which we are already seeing initial signs of in second tier cities in China – it'll devastate the financial stability of cities like Ordos.  I think it's important to remember, too, that the ghost city phenomenon in China is partially due to how local governments are forced to finance themselves. Local governments in China are in a perpetual cash squeeze because they have to hand over a bulk of their tax revenue to the central government and because the central government often orders localities to build all sorts of infrastructure projects but Beijing often neglects to help with funding. Because the Party owns all of the land in China, local governments solve their funding problems by seizing land from their poorest residents, giving them a paltry sum in return, and then they sell the land to developers, essentially flipping real estate on a massive scale. Of course this has the added benefit of raising GDP figures, increasing the chance that local leaders will be promoted within the Party. Rob Schmitz/Marketplace/American Public MediaOrdos has issued a construction ban to halt any further wasteful projects, scheduled to go into effect in three years. Before then, the government is spending hundreds of millions of dollars on three gigantic sports stadiums for the 2015 Chinese Ethnic Games. BI: Do you see more Chinese ghost cities propping up? Is it possible that some ghost cities are worse than others?  RS: I think each ghost city/ghost suburb should be treated differently – each of them has its own unique background and circumstances. Some of them will survive – we've already seen that happen in places like Zhengzhou and even in some of the exurbs of Shanghai that have filled out – but many won't. I was talking with Arthur Kroeber at GK Dragonomics a couple of months ago, in my mind one of the best experts on China's economy, and he was telling me about the city of Guiyang and how the province it belongs to, Guizhou, has an 80% debt-to-GDP ratio, which is incredibly dangerous. Arthur's usually pretty bullish on China's prospects, but he threw his optimism out the window when talking about the empty suburbs of that city, where hundreds of thousands of apartments sit, empty, while the largely mountainous province continues to plod along as one of China's poorest. The FT's (moving to The Economist soon) Simon Rabinovitch did a great story about all of Guiyang's empty housing, and what's happened there looks pretty scary.  I think whether we see more ghost cities popping up depends on whether the central government is serious about promises to overhaul the GDP-based local official evaluation system and the way that local governments finance themselves.Rob Schmitz/Marketplace/America Public RadioBI: What's the most bizarre experience you've had in China's ghost cities? RS: My first morning in Kangbashi, I woke up and walked through the empty hotel lobby to take a look outside onto the public square. There wasn't a soul in sight, and the first birds of spring were singing outside. The only other sound was Muzak pumping through the speakers from the hotel. As I looked around for any signs of life, I suddenly recognized the song. It was a Chinese version of Simon and Garfunkel's "Sound of Silence" played with a Chinese erhu. Click here for Schmitz's full story » Note: Photos and captions reproduced with permission from Marketplace. FREE AppDownload
John Burns Real Estate ConsultingThe US labor pool will grow 75% more slowly than usual over the next decade due to heavy retirement. This will: For years, the US has been adding 1.8+/- million eligible people to the labor pool: In 2012, the labor pool growth got cut in half, to 0.9 million, as 4.5 million people turned 20, and the number of people turning 65 skyrocketed to 3.6 million. Looking forward, the labor pool growth will steadily decline to a paltry 0.2 million in 2022, where it will stay flat for several years. This forecast uses the "middle immigration series" forecasted by the Census Bureau. Robust immigration would change the numbers but not the conclusion. We also tested pushing out retirement a few years, and all it does is delay the inevitable. The underemployed and those who dropped out of the labor force will find it much easier to return to work. This is mostly great news for housing demand: Not all is rosy, as this also means that the economy will continue to grow slowly, at best, and that the cost to build homes will likely rise. Overall, we expect the positive to significantly outweigh the negative, especially if you focus on the demographic opportunities. FREE AppDownload
Unlike other animal attacks, if you happen to get attacked by a shark you need to strategically strike back. And punching them in the nose is not your best defense...  Produced by Justin Gmoser. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
REUTERS/Carlos Garcia RawlinsKidnappings for ransom, drug-smuggling, fake invoicing and extortion are just a few of the ways in which terrorists raise cash for their nefarious deeds.  Some scams take advantage of globalisation: American officials found that Hizbullah, a Lebanese movement, raised funds by exporting used cars from America and selling them in west Africa. Governments are understandably keen to cut terrorists off from sources of cash, and have been taking drastic steps to punish banks for involvement in financing dangerous people. In 2012 the American authorities imposed a $1.9 billion fine on HSBC, a British bank, for lax controls on money-laundering. Big fines have been meted out to Barclays, ING and Standard Chartered for money-laundering or sanctions-busting. BNP Paribas of France is said to be facing a fine of as much as $10 billion in America. Such stiff penalties are popular, and provide great press for ambitious prosecutors. Cut the flow of money to terrorism, their thinking goes, and it will wither. Yet there are two problems with this approach. First, the regulations are so demanding and the fines so large that banks are walking away from countries and businesses where they perceive even the faintest whiff of risk (see "International banking: Poor correspondents"). American regulators, for instance, require banks to know not only who their customers are, and what they plan to do with their cash, but also the identities and intentions of their customers' customers. Correspondent-banking relationships--the arteries of global finance that allow people and firms to send money from one country to another, even if their own bank does not have a branch there--are therefore collapsing. Some of world's biggest banks privately say they are cutting as many as a third of these relationships. This retreat will have little impact on the rich world. Britain's Lloyds Banking Group, say, will probably always transact with Wells Fargo in America or ICBC in China. But it could prove devastating to small, poor countries whose banks lose their big international partners just because the costs of checking up on them outweigh the paltry profits they generate. Some countries risk being cut off from the financial system altogether: British banks last year threatened to close the last pipeline for money transfers into Somalia. Others will see the costs of intermediation rise: bankers talk of a tenfold increase in fees paid to send money to countries such as Tanzania. Cotton farmers in Mali and small exporters in Indonesia will find it increasingly hard to get trade finance. Even well-known charities responding to UN calls for assistance in countries such as Syria are struggling to get banks to let them send aid. Were all of this actually preventing terrorism it might be judged a fair trade-off. Yet--and this is the second problem with this approach--it seems likely to be ineffective or even counter-productive. Terrorism is not particularly expensive, and the money needed to finance it can travel by informal routes. In 2012 guards on the border between Nigeria and Niger arrested a man linked to Boko Haram, a Nigerian terror group, with EUR35,000 ($47,000) in his underpants: laughable, except that the group has killed around 1,500 people this year alone. Restrictions on banks will encourage terrorists to avoid the banking system. That may hinder rather than help the fight against terrorism. A former spy complains that it has become harder to piece together intelligence on terrorist networks now that the money flows within them are entirely illicit. When the G20 meets later this year it should urge its members to accept the risk that even in well-regulated banking systems money may find its way to terrorists. Banks should be given clear guidance on necessary safeguards, but not held responsible for every breach. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
WikimediaJohn D. RockefellerA son of the oldest living member of the Rockefeller family has died after the small plane he was piloting crashed just outside New York. Dr Richard Rockefeller, 65, was flying solo in his single-engine plane back to his home in Maine on the morning after celebrating the 99th birthday of his father, the philanthropist David Rockefeller. The plane, a Piper Meridian, took off from Westchester County Airport just after 8 am on Friday and struck a line of trees just south-west of the White Plains airport minutes later in foggy conditions. Dr Rockefeller, a father of two, had been working on a way to treat post-traumatic stress disorder in wounded war veterans, family spokesman Fraser Seitel said. "It's a terrible tragedy," Mr Seitel said. "Richard was a wonderful cherished son, brother, father and grandfather." Dr Rockefeller's father David, the former chairman and chief executive of Chase Manhattan Bank, now JPMorgan Chase, and a prominent philanthropist, and a nephew of former Vice President Nelson A. Rockefeller, who also was governor of New York from 1959 to 1973. On Thursday, Dr Rockefeller ate dinner with his father in Westchester to celebrate the family patriarch's 99th birthday, Seitel said. Mr Seitel described him as an experienced pilot whose death left the family in shock. The plane crashed in the hamlet of Purchase, a New York City bedroom community of about 10,000 residents that houses a State University of New York campus. The airport was closed for a short time after the crash. The Federal Aviation Administration was investigating, and the National Transportation Safety Board was expected to arrive later Friday. An FAA control tower notified that the aircraft was missing from their radar" and an emergency response was initiated. At the time of the crash, the weather was foggy and visibility was about a quarter-mile (400 meters), police and airport officials said at a news conference. Pilots of private planes make the decision about whether to fly in such conditions, officials said. After narrowly missing the house, the plane hit some pine trees and crashed in a yard. The aircraft broke up into many pieces, which were strewn about the property, with some parts lodged in the trees. Julie Jacobson/ReutersCrews work near the site of the plane crash.Officials said there was no indication of a mayday or problem. Dr Rockefeller chaired the United States Advisory Board for Doctors Without Borders for more than 20 years, ending in 2010. He was involved in numerous other nonprofit activities. "Every aspect of his life was to advance the well-being of the world," said Tim Glidden, president of Maine Coast Heritage Trust, where Rockefeller served as board chairman from 2000 to 2006. Dr Rockefeller is survived by his wife, Nancy, and their children, Clayton and Rebecca. FREE AppDownload
Everyone should know how to make a proper Old-Fashioned. The bourbon cocktail, sweetened with muddled sugar and two dashes of bitters, is perfect for celebrating National Bourbon Day. It’s also one of the most classic, classy drinks you can order at a bar. Plus, with only four ingredients (not including the garnish), it’s also very easy to make.Mike Nudelman/Business Insider Want to learn how to make more classic cocktails? Click here. FREE AppDownload
In addition to the beautiful views, the luxury accommodations and the tasty cocktails, guests of Sir Richard Branson's extremely upscale, private island can enjoy, there is perhaps one aspect of the experience that tops it all – the food. On a visit to Necker Island, we were treated to many delicious meals by the Michelin-trained culinary staff, but there was one that was especially impressive – the Necker Island sushi lunch. We spoke to Head Chef Gareth Zachary about how it all comes together. Produced by Kamelia Angelova &amp; Robert Libetti. Originally published in October 2012. Music: "Quand je serai grand" by By Löhstana David Disclosure: We were flown out to Necker Island, BVI by Virgin Limited Edition, which covered our travel and lodging expenses. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Vodka martinis are okay, but gin martinis are the best. That’s because each gin has its own distinct flavor, since different brands use different botanicals. This makes each gin martini much more interesting — and perfect for drinking on World Gin Day. Below is the recipe for making a delicious dry martini (a dry martini has less vermouth, whereas a wet martini means more vermouth). If you’re celebrating at a bar, here’s how to expertly order the martini of your choice. Mike Nudelman/Business Insider Want to learn how to make more classic cocktails? Click here. FREE AppDownload
Bitcoin prices were down more than 5% to $563 Saturday morning as the cryptocurrency faced its worst crisis of confidence since the fall of Mt. Gox.  There is only one way to hack the entire Bitcoin network, which has continued to hum along in the face of numerous Bitcoin business failures. It involves a group of Bitcoin miners taking control of 51% of the Bitcoin's processing power, thus giving them the power to manipulate the blockchain, Bitcoin's master transaction ledger. Miners are simply computers that unscramble the encrypted series of numbers attached to every Bitcoin transaction. There is profit in numbers, and many miners have formed large pools to extract the maximum amount of profit for their work.  As a completely unregulated global currency made out of computer code, the only thing that has prevented the 51% threshold from being reached has been a form of mutually assured destruction: As soon as the 51% figure is reached, the price of Bitcoin will tank, leaving the digital junta little time to make much of a profit. On Friday, mining pool GHash's share of the Bitcoin network ticked 51%: tharlam/reddit The situation was momentarily resolved after a member of GHash agreed to remove some of its resources from the pool. GHash's mining share has since retreated to 43%. But there is now debate raging in Bitcoin world about what to do next. One commentator who wished to remain anonymous told BI, "This is not Bitcoin anymore, it's centralized GHashcoin....They are killing what is a big part of Bitcoins value." Two Cornell computer scientists posted a note to HackingDistributed confirming that, indeed, this is a doomsday scenario: Is this really Armageddon? Yes, it is. GHash is in a position to exercise complete control over which transactions appear on the blockchain and which miners reap mining rewards. They could keep 100% of the mining profits to themselves if they so chose. Bitcoin is currently an expensive distributed database under the control of a single entity, albeit one whose maintenance requires constantly burning energy -- worst of all worlds.  In a blog post Friday, Gavin Andresen, Bitcoin's lead developer, advised urged miners to leave GHash, but said the danger the network faced was limited because it would freeze up before GHash got too far with an attack, and that other solutions could be found.   In an interview with Caleb Chen of CryptoCoinNews, a spokesman for GHash said the firm had no intention of attacking the network but was unapologetic about the pool's heft in the system. "We understand that the Bitcoin community strongly reacts to GHash.IO’s percentage of the total hash rate," Jeffrey Smith said. "However, we would never do anything to harm the Bitcoin economy; we believe in it. We have invested all our effort, time and money into the development of the Bitcoin economy. We agree that mining should be decentralized, but you cannot blame GHash.IO for being the #1 mining pool." The two Cornell researchers, Ittay Eyal, and Emin Gün Sirer, now propose creating a "hard fork" on the Bitcoin network, a set-aside part of Bitcoin's transaction ledger that would sacrifice some  Bitcoin attributes in the name of preventing another similar attack. Others have proposed creating a peer-to-peer network of mining nodes which, instead of being able to access the entire blockchain, only target specified branches.  There is a third way, the Eyal and Sirer say, which seems to describe the current situation: ...We can carry on as if nothing of importance happened. GHash will be on their best behavior for the next few weeks, and Bitcoin will limp along. What will bring the actual demise of Bitcoin is the subject of a future blog post, but this is by no means the end. At the end of his post, Andresen said what the 51% moment clearly indicated: "Bitoin is still a work in progress."   FREE AppDownload
The downside to this activity is that even before the strike broke out in January, platinum and palladium had supply issues. A British geological survey, in fact, placed the platinum group metals (PGMs) on its supply risk index in 2012, ranking them 13th among 41 “endangered” elements of economic value. One of the primary reasons for this is that approximately 80 percent of palladium and 70 percent of platinum production is concentrated in only two countries, South Africa and Russia.  Now, with the former country in the throes of its costliest strike ever and the latter experiencing economic sanctions because of its aggression against Ukraine, the world faces an even greater shortage risk of the precious metals. Stocks are running low. The worldwide demand for palladium is strong, driven predominantly by the automotive industry, which uses 67 percent of the metal’s global supply to manufacture catalytic converters, or mufflers. Because a growing number of countries are tightening carbon emission standards, the demand for the metal is increasing. So too are supply deficits, which might soon reach a 30-year high. The largest South African producers have so far managed to make good on their deliveries by tapping into their reserves. But the well is drying up fast. “We probably have another six to eight weeks to go before producers run really low on material they’ve stockpiled,” Standard Bank analyst Walter de Wet told Reuters in late May. Even if a firm resolution were reached this week between top PGM producers and the Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union (AMCU), the group leading the strike, active mining wouldn’t resume for at least another three months. “AMCU members are steadfast,” Joseph Mathunjwa, President of the AMCU, told Reuters, “and we are not turning back” on the demand for a wage hike to 12,500 rand ($1,200) a month. Neither, it seems, are the producing companies, who claim they can’t meet the AMCU’s wage demands without being forced to slash jobs and shutter mines. At the same time, companies are eager to resume production, having already lost a combined $2 billion. For each day the strike drags on, 10,000 ounces of platinum and 5,000 ounces of palladium are lost. As of this writing, the production companies have offered the AMCU a wage deal which Mathunjwa has yet to sign it, despite urges from his fellow mine workers. When one door closes… As worrisome as this news might sound, there is a silver—or, shall I say, platinum—lining. The strike in South Africa and Western tensions with Russia have given Stillwater Mining Co., the only U.S. producer of PGMs, an opportunity to grow its global market share. The company, which we own in our Global Resources (PSPFX) and Gold and Precious Metals (USERX) Funds, announced in a press release last month that it has agreed to a five-year, multimillion-dollar refining and sales contract with Johnson Matthey, the third-largest manufacturer of auto catalysts in the world. “We believe that this agreement provides numerous benefits to both parties at a time in the PGM industry when supplies are constrained and demand for our products continue [sic] to grow,” noted Mick McMullen, Stillwater’s president and CEO. Located in Billings, Montana, Stillwater extracts its PGMs from the J-M Reef in southern Montana, the only known large-scale source of the rare metals in the U.S. The mine contains some of the world’s highest-quality ore grades. Although McMullen sees the strike in South Africa as an opening to a stronger foothold in the global PGM market, he is hesitant to ramp up production too impulsively. Speaking with the Wall Street Journal, he explained that he would prefer to keep production costs down to maximize shareholders’ returns. Stillwater’s net income in the first quarter, $19.6 million, was up 34 percent from the same time a year ago. To receive the latest updates on this story, be sure to follow our Investor Alert. Please consider carefully a fund’s investment objectives, risks, charges and expenses. For this and other important information, obtain a fund prospectus by visiting www.usfunds.com or by calling 1-800-US-FUNDS (1-800-873-8637). Read it carefully before investing. Distributed by U.S. Global Brokerage, Inc. Foreign and emerging market investing involves special risks such as currency fluctuation and less public disclosure, as well as economic and political risk. Because the Global Resources Fund concentrates its investments in specific industries, the fund may be subject to greater risks and fluctuations than a portfolio representing a broader range of industries. Gold, precious metals, and precious minerals funds may be susceptible to adverse economic, political or regulatory developments due to concentrating in a single theme. The prices of gold, precious metals, and precious minerals are subject to substantial price fluctuations over short periods of time and may be affected by unpredicted international monetary and political policies. We suggest investing no more than 5% to 10% of your portfolio in these sectors. All opinions expressed and data provided are subject to change without notice. Some of these opinions may not be appropriate to every investor. Fund portfolios are actively managed, and holdings may change daily. Holdings are reported as of the most recent quarter-end. Holdings in the Global Resources Fund as a percentage of net assets as of 03/31/2014: Stillwater Mining Company 0.95%. Holdings in the Gold and Precious Metals Fund as a percentage of net assets as of 03/31/2014: Stillwater Mining Company 0.26%. By clicking the link(s) above, you will be directed to a third-party website(s). U.S. Global Investors does not endorse all information supplied by this/these website(s) and is not responsible for its/their content. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Stephen Lam A frequent stock market meme over the last year or so has been that it is a "stock pickers market": With volatility seemingly absent across Wall Street, investors are under more pressure to find individual investments that help their portfolios outperform. And there are no shortage of stocks where investors have staked their claim, arguing that some stocks are going to $0, and that others are going to the moon.  This year's list of the most controversial stocks includes the world's largest technology company, a troubled mobile game maker, and two companies lead by the incredible Elon Musk. Some of these companies are facing attacks from hedge funders or analysts that believe their businesses are fraudulent or illegal, or simply a little overhyped. Other stocks are facing extinction, or are new to the public markets and have found out quickly how fickle stock investors can be Based on our analysis of the current stock market landscape, here are the stocks, ranked from least to most controversial, that we will be keeping an eye on into the summer. FREE AppDownload
Remember 2010, when everyone was arguing about whether governments hit by the Great Recession should be cutting their way back to health? Here's a chart that shows the cutters were probably wrong. The Center for Economic And Policy Research's Ben Wolcott has calculated the magnitude of countries' attempts to balance their books through austerity, versus ones that took a less severe approach. "...If the pain caucus predictions were correct, we would expect to see a strong positive correlation between changes in the structural balance and employment rate," he writes. "In this worldview, as countries like Greece and Spain cut their budgets in order to qualify for international support, increased confidence in financial markets would return them to full employment quickly." That didn't happen. The X-axis below shows the extent to which countries tried to achieve greater structural (i.e. non-cyclical) fiscal "balance" through spending cuts and tax increases. The Y-axis shows employment. Nearly every country that kept government spending mostly the same, or even increased it, in the throes of the Great Recession now has higher rates of employment four years on. Those who attempted to convince the market of its fiscal discipline do not. Wolcott/CEPRWolcott: This image very crisply suggests what Keynesians have been arguing in more nuanced ways for four years, namely that many countries cut fiscal spending too soon, prolonging the negative impacts of the Great Recession for workers. Wolcott goes on to note how this phenomenon has played out in Japan: No country has a debt level anywhere near Japan’s which is now approaching 250 percent of GDP. Nonetheless the country’s new Prime Minister, Shinzo Abe, pushed through a vigorous stimulus program that began to take effect early in 2013. The economy responded as would be predicted by textbook Keynesian economics, growth accelerated, the inflation rate increased modestly, and the employment to population ratio rose by 1.7 percentage points, the equivalent of 4 million new jobs in the United States. No one is suggesting fiscal discipline is never called for. But this chart shows that it's a really bad idea to go for it when everything is collapsing. (Via Delong) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA Wall Street sign outside the New York Stock ExchangeNEW YORK (Reuters) - With the possibility of escalating violence in Iraq, stocks in the defense sector could garner more attention next week. The stock market and oil prices were rattled late in the week after violence in the nation escalated as a Sunni insurgency against the government heats up. A continued escalation of the conflict could result in a civil war and a possible break-up of the country. Even with tensions in the region mounting, the PHLX defense sector &lt;.DFX&gt; was down about 1 percent for the week, retreating with the broader S&amp;P 500 &lt;.SPX&gt; after both indexes had closed at record highs on Monday. Some caution in the market would be expected, but higher oil prices and concerns about a worsening of the conflict would be felt in defense and energy areas. "As investors try to determine what stocks and which sectors would benefit if we continue to see troubles in Iraq, it’s logical that more defensive sectors would benefit and especially the defense stocks themselves," said Kate Warne, investment strategist at Edward Jones in St. Louis. "As investors get more nervous about the situation in Iraq, it will be a typical situation where it’s positive for the stocks like oil ... and we will see more caution across the board in other stocks." Escalation doesn't necessarily mean investors will flock to defense stocks solely on expectations they will see a revenue boost as a result of an increase in new government contracts. Americans are wary of getting re-involved in the fighting in Iraq given forces are still in country after the U.S. invasion in 2003 that has since cost the lives of more than 100,000 civilians and several thousand soldiers. Scott Armiger, portfolio manager at Christiana Trust in Greenville, Delaware has owned Northrop Grumman Corp &lt;NOC.N&gt; since August, but said, "We are not going to boost defense stocks holdings on this move in Iraq, especially with this administration. I surely don’t think it’s a build-up, it conflicts with other agenda items, domestic is still number one." The defense index has gained 93 percent in the last three years. It has a 50-day correlation with the benchmark S&amp;P index of 0.89, but that may begin to break down should violence in the region grow, putting stocks in the defense sector in position to move higher while the broader market retreats. The United States does appear to be acting in a deliberate fashion for the time being. After threatening military strikes against militants from the radical Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) on Thursday, President Barack Obama said on Friday he will take several days to review options for how the United States can help Iraq deal with the insurgency. Another consideration for defense stocks is they generally have other businesses to go along with revenue generated from defense contracts - Boeing &lt;BA.N&gt; is involved with commercial airplanes and Precision Castparts &lt;PCP.N&gt; also deals with medical implants - so while they may get a lift a growing conflict it will not be the sole factor for any price boost. "Many of the defense stocks trade with the expectations that we will see cutbacks in government spending in areas like defense but the stocks are really reflecting better performance on other parts of the business," said Warne. "Any company that relies solely on defense right now is probably not in great shape."   (Reporting by Chuck Mikolajczak; Editing by Nick Zieminski) FREE AppDownload
The investment potential of developing markets had been recognized for a long time, but the actual birth and classification of emerging markets as an investment category in a more formal or recognized way probably could be tied to an event in more recent history. In 1986, the International Finance Corporation (IFC), a World Bank subsidiary, engaged in a campaign to encourage capital market development in the less-developed countries, which had often been given unflattering designations such as “third-world” nations. At that point in time, a handful of institutional investors invested US$50 million in an emerging markets strategy at the behest of the World Bank’s IFC. A year later, in 1987, there were two other milestones in the history of emerging-markets investment: MSCI developed its first emerging-markets indexes,1 and perhaps more importantly from our perspective, the Templeton Emerging Markets Group began managing portfolios to allow mainstream investors access to emerging markets. When we started managing emerging-markets portfolios, it was a difficult time to invest in many respects. Although there were many emerging-market countries in Asia, Africa, Latin America and Europe that looked exciting to us, very few of them were actually open to foreign investment. There were strict foreign exchange controls and limitations, in addition to a plethora of problems with market liquidity, corporate governance and safekeeping of securities. In our early days of emerging-markets investing, there were only a few markets available to us. We often had trouble putting our money to work. From an investment standpoint, many emerging markets started essentially as exclusive clubs for the wealthy few, but we’ve seen a rapid growth of egalitarian, open-market practices that today attract a wide audience of global investors. I can recall back in the early 1990s, for example, trading on Russia’s stock market began around three o’clock in the afternoon, when a luxury vehicle would pull up to the stock exchange building carrying lots of cash. Brokers would sit at long tables waiting for citizens who had been given share vouchers—which could be exchanged for shares in newly privatized Russian companies—to sell them on the exchange. At around six o’clock in the evening, the vehicle would return to collect the vouchers the brokers had bought on the cheap. As investors there ourselves, at the time we faced an extremely unstable environment and were often told “trust us!” with little basis to go on. The vast majority of Russian stocks were so thinly traded we had to wait days, or even weeks, to execute a trade. How things have changed! Today, investors can trade in a wide range of equities, options and commodity futures products on an electronic platform, day and night, not only in Russia but in emerging-market countries around the world. We were there at the start of many exciting developments, which included the opening of many markets to wider foreign investment. In the past 25 years, we’ve also seen the end of apartheid in South Africa, easier access to eastern European economies (including Russia), the opening up of India to foreign investment and, of course, China’s embrace of capitalism and rapid urbanization. Today we can invest in a wide variety of emerging markets around the world, as well as a host of “frontier markets,” a designation given to the lesser-developed subsector of emerging markets, which includes the majority of the African continent. We are very excited about the potential for these frontier countries in the next 25 years, as many are growing at a rapid pace and quickly assimilating the latest technological advancements, particularly in mobile finance and e-commerce. Generally more youthful and growing populations mean consumer power has been on the rise, with a growing middle class.  Reasons for Optimism The Templeton emerging-markets investment team has grown from just three portfolio managers/analysts some 25 years ago to 52 today, and we have expanded our on-the-ground presence from just one research office in Hong Kong (opened in 1987) to 18 offices in locations including Asia and the Middle East, Europe and Latin America. There will always be challenges in any country; developed countries certainly aren’t immune to issues like corruption, and temporary market and economic setbacks. Throughout short-term challenges, we’ve remained focused on the long term and on our conviction of the potential we believe emerging markets hold. We also believe in the importance of being on-the-ground, assessing the situation first-hand and talking to individual businesses within a country to determine their distinct fundamentals and potential. This can bring valuable insights you can’t get by analyzing reams of data. For example, on a recent visit to a country in Africa, my team and I were exploring a food and beverage company, and the management had put together a good investment pitch. However, when visiting a local supermarket, we noticed its products were buried on a hard-to-find, lower shelf, making it difficult for consumers to find the company’s product. Another contrasting example: Visiting Brazil in 1995, I sensed malaise among business leaders given economic challenges there, with slow growth and a recent history of hyperinflation. However, when I spoke with a woman on the street, I got a more upbeat view of the country. She said that with consumer inflation rates running in triple-digit percentage rates the year prior, she didn’t know how much she was going to get paid, due to the country’s indexing system for salaries.  At the time of my visit, the inflation trend was starting to decelerate into the mere double-digits, something that she was quite excited about. She said she now didn’t have to rush to the bank anymore to get her cash then rush to the store to buy all her groceries before her money lost its value. Now, she could plan ahead. Statements like this gave me more hope consumer sentiment was improving, and that the economy could recover. I think the welcoming of foreign capital and the trend toward privatization have been key to the growth and development of emerging markets over the past few decades, and one of my biggest fears is the possibility of the door shutting on both in some countries. Aside from that possibility, as we see it, there are three key reasons to remain optimistic today about the potential emerging markets generally hold.   Put all this together, and we believe there’s a good case to be optimistic about the future for emerging and frontier markets, and we believe their share of the global investable universe will continue to grow. Just imagine what the next 25 years could bring!  Mark Mobius’ comments, opinions and analyses are for informational purposes only and should not be considered individual investment advice or recommendations to invest in any security or to adopt any investment strategy. Because market and economic conditions are subject to rapid change, comments, opinions and analyses are rendered as of the date of the posting and may change without notice. The material is not intended as a complete analysis of every material fact regarding any country, region, market, industry, investment or strategy.  Important Legal Information All investments involve risks, including the possible loss of principal. Investments in foreign securities involve special risks including currency fluctuations, economic instability and political developments. Investments in emerging markets, of which frontier markets are a subset, involve heightened risks related to the same factors, in addition to those associated with these markets’ smaller size, lesser liquidity and lack of established legal, political, business and social frameworks to support securities markets. Because these frameworks are typically even less developed in frontier markets, as well as various factors including the increased potential for extreme price volatility, illiquidity, trade barriers and exchange controls, the risks associated with emerging markets are magnified in frontier markets. Stock prices fluctuate, sometimes rapidly and dramatically, due to factors affecting individual companies, particular industries or sectors, or general market conditions.   1.The MSCI Emerging Markets and MSCI All Country World Indexes were launched on Dec 31, 1987. Source: MSCI. MSCI makes no express or implied warranties or representations and shall have no liability whatsoever with respect to any MSCI data contained herein. The MSCI data may not be further redistributed or used as a basis for other indices or any securities or financial products. This report is not approved, reviewed or produced by MSCI. 2.Source: IMF World Outlook Database, April 2014. © by International Monetary Fund. All Rights Reserved. 3. Ibid. 4.Ibid. Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets - Notes from Mark Mobius  Mark Mobius, Ph.D., executive chairman of Templeton Emerging Markets Group, joined Templeton in 1987. Currently, he directs the Templeton research team based in 15 global emerging markets offices and manages emerging markets portfolios. As he spans the globe in search of investment opportunities, his “Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets” blog gives readers a taste for what he does, when, where, why and how. Dr. Mobius has written several books, including “Trading with China,” “The Investor’s Guide to Emerging Markets,” “Mobius on Emerging Markets,” “Passport to Profits,” “Equities—An Introduction to the Core Concepts,” “Mutual Funds—An Introduction to the Core Concepts,” ”The Little Book of Emerging Markets,” and “Mark Mobius: An Illustrated Biography." Read more posts on Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets » This article originally appeared at Investment Adventures In Emerging Markets.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersCars drive on the Three Ring Road amid the heavy haze in BeijingBEIJING (Reuters) - Complaints about air pollution in the Chinese capital of Beijing more than doubled in the first five months of 2014, the city environment authority said, a sign of rising public anger about the cost of rapid economic growth. The Beijing Municipal Environmental Bureau revealed late on Friday that 12,599 formal complaints about smog were lodged by members of the public from January to May, 124 percent higher than the same period of last year. Beijing, routinely shrouded in hazardous smog, has been on the front line of a "war against pollution" declared by Premier Li Keqiang in March in a bid to head off growing discontent about the state of the country's skies, rivers and soil. Smog was involved in 72.6 percent of the total number of environment-related complaints submitted to the Beijing authorities from January to May, the environmental bureau said. In a bid to defuse potential sources of unrest, China's leaders have been desperate to show they are firmly on the side of the public in the battle against pollution, setting up hotlines, task forces and rapid response teams, and encouraging the public to participate in campaigns against violators. A newly amended environmental law also stipulates that authorities must ensure transparency and accountability, and also promises to improve access to the court system for people harmed by pollution. In a separate notice, the Beijing environmental bureau said as many as 114 firms had been punished this month after its latest week-long campaign targeting environmental violations in the catering, car manufacturing and car repair sectors. It said the firms were ordered to pay a total of 2.45 million yuan ($394,600) in fines.   (Reporting by David Stanway; Editing by Robert Birsel) FREE AppDownload
