There's a fairly large snow storm barreling down on the northeastern United States which will no doubt result in plenty of new images, but the Twitter feed of presidential historian Michael Beschloss is showing many more from the past. Beschloss, who will soon join The New York Times as a columnist on history, has been sharing vintage images of New York City in the snow along with others from Washington, D.C. and Boston. (He's worth following on Twitter @BeschlossDC if you don't already.) Check out what he's been sharing: @BeschlossDC/TwitterFifth Avenue NYC under snow, c. 1905 @BeschlossDC/TwitterTimes Square NYC during 1947 blizzard @BeschlossDC/TwitterBoston Commons under snow, 1919@BeschlossDC/TwitterWhite House at night under snow, about 1907
REUTERS/Larry DowningOutgoing Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke.On the first day of trading in 2014 the S&amp;P 500 fell 0.9%. Today, however, the Fedspeak calendar is packed, thanks to the AEA/ASSA annual meeting in Philadelphia, at which several members of the Federal Open Market Committee are scheduled to speak. And that should bode well for risk assets like stocks, according to Steven Englander, global head of G10 FX strategy at Citi. "Most likely outcome – reiteration of dovish tapering stance, buying of risk, bond yields back up with equity market gains, USD advances against JPY, commodity currencies, and probably EUR, but more ambiguous response of risk-correlated EM currencies," says Englander. FOMC governor Jeremy Stein gets the ball rolling as moderator of a panel discussion beginning at 10:15 AM ET. Philadelphia Fed president Charles Plosser — a voting member on the 2014 FOMC — speaks at 12:45 PM, followed by another Stein speech at 1:15 PM. Elsewhere in Baltimore, Richmond Fed president Jeffrey Lacker speaks at 1:30 PM. The main event at the AEA/ASSA meeting, a speech by outgoing Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke, is at 2:30 PM. "There is focus on the Bernanke speech and his likely slant on tapering," says Englander. "His perspective is important because it will give insight into how the Fed’s center-dovish wing views tapering." A big theme in interest rate markets since the FOMC announced the first tapering of its quantitative easing program at its December 18 meeting has been the steepening of forward curves in short-term interest rates as traders pull forward expectations for when the Fed will first hike interest rates, as well as the pace at which they will hike when they do begin hiking. "Since about December 10th, conversations with leveraged investors suggest that their risk scenario is heavily weighted to the Fed tightening earlier than advertised by forward guidance because economic slack is considerably less than indicated by Fed speakers," says Englander. Bernanke and other "dovish" members of the FOMC may wish to take an opportunity to push back on this during Tuesday's speaking events. "A consensus from doves — and more surprisingly, hawks — that they are nowhere near to tightening policy rates will take the wind out of the sails of this bearish sentiment," says Englander. On the other hand, if speakers do the opposite, markets could be in for some turmoil. "Were Plosser or Stein in their comments to open an even small window to an early tightening, there would be chaos in the middle range of bond market maturities," warns Englander, "but we consider this unlikely." FREE AppDownload
This is the first time we've seen this. Via Adam Besvinick: Adam Besvinick (Via @howardLindzon) FREE AppDownload
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. ROSENBERG: If You're Still Bullish On Bonds It's Time To Turn Into A Dow Dog (Gluskin Sheff)  David Rosenberg has been bearish on bonds since last April. As U.S. treasuries, emerging market bonds investment-grade corporate bonds, and muni bonds delivered negative returns in 2013, junk bonds delivered a 7% total return, he writes. But the investor crowd has suddenly lost interest in bonds considering U.S. high-yield mutual funds and ETFs had $4.4 billion of net outflows in 2013, the largest redemption since 2005. "After all, at these yield levels, if you're going to invest in risk assets, and there is risk in corporate bonds albeit a different sort of risk than there is in hard assets or equities you may as well dip some toes into the stock market pool," writes Rosenberg. "While it is late in the game, the game is still not over necessarily and we could have been saying the same thing this time last year. What is incredible is that while most of the fixed-income universe failed to generate income in 2013, the asset class that continued to deliver the income even as bond yields rose were the dividend-paying arena of the equity market. And it was more about the dividend growth than it was about the yield. Just check out, for example, what the Dogs of the Dow strategy did last year (the 10 highest-yielding components of the DJIA) — a 30% advance which actually outperformed the rest of the blue-chips by over 400 basis points!" Hedge Funds Had A Record Year In 2013 (Eurekahedge)  Globally, hedge funds saw their assets under management increase to an all-time high of $2.01 trillion in 2013, according to Eurekahedge. Hedge funds' AUM grew by $228.8 billion in 2013, the fastest annual growth on record since 2007. Funds that were focused on Asia Pacific had the best returns and were up 15.3% in 2013. And a breakdown shows that those with Japan and Greater China focus had the best regional results at 25.7% and 19.3% respectively. Meanwhile the distressed debt hedge fund strategy delivered the strongest performance with 16.8% returns in 2013. FINRA Will Focus On Brokers That Have Many Complaints Against Them (FINRA) Last year the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), launched the High Risk Broker (HRB) program was created to identify brokers with "a pattern of complaints or disclosures for sales practice abuses and could harm investors as well as the reputation of the securities industry and financial markets." FINRA said in its 2014 Regulatory and Examination Priorities letter that it would expand its HRB program this year and "create a dedicated enforcement team to prosecute such cases." FINRA will review the due diligence of firms that hire these brokers. It is also concerned about the risks they bring to a new firm. "Using sophisticated analytics—known as the Broker Migration Model— FINRA identifies and monitors both brokers who move from a firm that has been expelled or otherwise has a serious disciplinary history to another FINRA-regulated firm, and the firms that hire such individuals. FINRA uses the model’s risk scoring, among other means, to prioritize surveillance and to conduct focused or accelerated examinations and enforcement efforts." Bob Doll's 10 Predictions For 2014 Include A 10% Correction In The Stock Market (Nuveen Asset Management) Nuveen Asset Management's Bob Doll expects stocks to fall 10% in 2014 before they end in the green. But here are his 10 predictions for 2014, published verbatim: 1. The U.S. economy grows 3% as housing starts surpass one million and private employment hits an all-time high. 2. 10-year Treasury yields move toward 3.5% as the Federal Reserve completes tapering and holds short-term rate near zero. 3. U.S. equities record another good year despite enduring a 10% correction. 4. Cyclical stocks outperform defensive stocks. 5. Dividends, stock buy-backs, capex, and M&amp;A all increase at a double-digit rate. 6. The U.S. dollar appreciates as U.S. energy and manufacturing trends continue to improve. 7. Gold falls for the second year and commodity prices languish. 8. Municipal bonds, led by high yield, outperform taxable bond counterparts. 9. Active managers outperform index funds. 10 .Republicans increase their lead in the House but fall short of capturing the Senate. FREE AppDownload
A blizzard is bearing down on the Northeast, and getting around town is about to get a lot trickier.  Highways are being closed, flights cancelled, mass transit delayed.  Here's what's happening in the air and on the ground: In New York City, express service on subway lines has been shut down, and buses are running with delays. Metro-North commuter trains will run only hourly after 8 p.m. on all three lines, and Long Island Rail Road trains are running with slight delays on the Ronkonkoma branch. Alternate side parking rules in the city have been suspended for Friday, but parking meters will be enforced. Citi Bike has not been shut down, but the re-installation of some Times Square stations removed for New Year's Eve celebrations has been delayed to next week. After midnight, several major highways will be shut down: the Long Island Expressway in Nassau and Suffolk counties, I-87 from NYC to Albany, and I-84 from the Connecticut state line to the Pennsylvania state line. They will reopen at 5 a.m., weather permitting. Local airports are staying open, but are experiencing delays, especially Newark.  Logan Airport said on Facebook it will remain open overnight, but expects its last departure to be around 8:30 p.m., and flights to resume late Friday morning. The Red, Blue, Orange, and Green metro lines may run with delays, and the Mattapan Trolley line may use alternate shuttle buses. The speed limit has been dropped to 45 mph on several highways, including all of I-81, I-80, I-84, and I-99. Flights are being delayed by an average of 26 minutes at Philadelphia International Airport. 19% of departing flights and 10% of inbound flights have been cancelled.  FREE AppDownload
By his own metric, Warren Buffett will fall short for the first time since he took over Berkshire Hathaway in 1965. For 43 years, Berkshire has increased its book value (i.e. net worth) faster than the S&amp;P 500 (including dividends) on a rolling five year basis. Bloomberg's Noah Buhayar calls it the Buffett 5-Year Test, and it's important to investors because it means they would be better off picking Berkshire over some "low-cost fund that tracks the index." From 2008 to the end of 2013, the S&amp;P 500 returned 128%. Berkshire (which computes return based on book value per Class A share) returned 80% from 2008 through September 2013, according to Bloomberg. That won't be enough to get him past the index when the company reports 2013 results. Buffett knew this day was coming. "To date, we’ve never had a five-year period of underperformance, having managed 43 times to surpass the S&amp;P over such a stretch," he wrote in his latest annual letter to shareholders. "But the S&amp;P has now had gains in each of the last four years, outpacing us over that period. If the market continues to advance in 2013, our streak of five- year wins will end." It's hard to pin too much blame on Berkshire and Buffett. The S&amp;P's mega rally since the financial crisis made Buffett's benchmark particularly difficult to uphold. Regardless, don't expect Buffett to take this lying down. "One thing of which you can be certain: Whatever Berkshire’s results, my partner Charlie Munger, the company’s Vice Chairman, and I will not change yardsticks," said Buffett. "It’s our job to increase intrinsic business value – for which we use book value as a significantly understated proxy – at a faster rate than the market gains of the S&amp;P." "Charlie and I believe the gain in Berkshire’s intrinsic value will over time likely surpass the S&amp;P returns by a small margin," he added. "We’re confident of that because we have some outstanding businesses, a cadre of terrific operating managers and a shareholder-oriented culture. Our relative performance, however, is almost certain to be better when the market is down or flat. In years when the market is particularly strong, expect us to fall short." The company touts Buffett's yardstick atop its yearly reports. We put the data since 1969 into a chart: Steven Perlberg / Business Insider
NOAA A major snowstorm is within a couple hours of sacking New York City and other parts of the eastern United States, with significant accumulations likely to start after 7 p.m.  So you might want to start making your way home from work. The MTA said express subway service will be impacted in anticipation of heavy snow and ice. Several major highways, including the Long Island Expressway and the New York State Thruway south of Albany, will also shut down from midnight Thursday to 5 a.m. on Friday, the New York Times reports.  A winter storm warning is already in effect for for New York City, Northeast New Jersey, and Southern Westchester County and will continue into Friday afternoon. The National Weather Service is calling for 5 to 9 inches of snow in these areas, the majority of it falling overnight.  The governors of New York, New Jersey, and Massachusetts have also declared states of emergency.  “This is nothing to be trifled with,” New York Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo said in conference call with reporters, according to the NY Daily News. “We have learned too well over the past years the power of Mother Nature.” Temperatures are also expected to plummet into the teens tonight and into Friday morning. Low temperatures will make for dry, powdery snow that can easily be blown around by strong winds. This could create whiteout conditions, making travel extremely dangerous.  Wind chills of zero to 10 degrees below zero are expected late tonight into Friday.  Blizzard conditions are also possible for Long Island and the Massachusetts coast, according to the National Weather Service.  Here's a map of weather warnings in New York region, last updated a 5:39 p.m. Red areas indicate a blizzard warning and pink means a winter storm warning.  NOAAThe major storm will impact areas from the southern Appalachians to New England, with heaviest snow occurring in central New York to the Massachusetts coast, the weather service said. From CBS News: The National Weather Service said Boston could get close to 3 feet of snow by Saturday evening, while most of Rhode Island could receive more than 2 feet. Connecticut was bracing for 2 feet, and New York City was expecting as much as 14 inches. FREE AppDownload
Each year Atlas Van Lines, the national moving company, tallies up all the moves they performed for every state, and shows which states saw the most inflows and outflows. They published their findings for 2013 today, and compiled them into a handy infographic. States that saw the greatest percentage of inbound movers: North Dakota, North Carolina, and Texas. States with the highest outbound move percentage: Connecticut, New York, and Indiana. You can see historical data here. Last year's top three were Washington DC, North Dakota, and North Carolina. The losers were Wyoming, Nebraska, and New York.  Check it out: (AEI's Mark Perry was the first to post this) Atlas FREE AppDownload
Want to feel good about the long-term direction of the world?  Try out this chart from Mark Perry: Mark Perry, AEI The chart ends a few years ago, but the trend is clear and has almost certainly continued, even with the economic downturn. The rise of China and India have been huge drivers of this trend. And that's not all the good news lately. As Bill Gates wrote in an end-of-year blog post, the last couple of years has seen further strides on big picture ailments like HIV infections and child mortality. FREE AppDownload
United AirlinesA split scimitar winglet, shown on a United plane.Southwest Airlines has ordered split scimitar winglets for 85 of its planes, a move that could save it nearly $14 million annually.  The sword-like attachments, made by Boeing, cut drag and improve aerodynamics. They represent a step up over blended winglets, thanks to "new strengthened spars, aerodynamic scimitar tips, and a large ventral strake."  52 Boeing 737-800s will be retrofitted with the scimitar winglets. The system will be included on 33 more 737-800s that should be delivered in 2014. Southwest says they will cut fuel use by 5%, a 2% improvement over what blended winglets offered. An Aviation Partners Boeing representative estimated Southwest will save more than 55,000 gallons of jet fuel per plane, per year.  Based on December jet fuel prices in North America provided by the International Air Transport, that adds up to $13,852,025 annually.  According to the latest numbers from the DOT's Bureau of Transportation Statistics, Southwest posted an operating profit of $984 million in 2013. Another $14 million won't make a huge difference, but it's more than a drop in the bucket. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Chris Wattie The markets have our attention.U.S. markets ended 2013 at a record high. And today, they started 2014 in the red. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial. FREE AppDownload
Julian Finney/Getty Images Russia's Winter Olympic Games, starting in a few weeks in Sochi, are very expensive. With a revised budget of $51 billion, they are the most expensive Olympics on record, an insane fact when you consider Winter Olympics are usually cheaper than the Summer Games. Where has all the money gone? That's the question Joshua Yaffa tries to answer in a long Businessweek article published today. As an example, Yaffe points to the huge new road and railway links being built to Krasnaya Polyana, a mountain resort hosting the ski and snowboard events for the games. The 31-mile transport link was a necessary construction as there were no suitable areas for these events in Sochi itself — the engineering for the project was notably difficult. Even so, the cost of the road and railway links seems bizarre. At over $8.7 billion it's easily more than the entire budget for the 2010 Vancouver Winter Olympics, Yaffe notes, and a stupidly big number when you consider that the entire games were originally budgeted at around $11 billion. Now, almost by design Olympic budgets overrun — last year one report described the proposed budget for an Olympic bid as "more like a fictitious minimum that is consistently overspent" — but Sochi's budget seems inexplicably big. One could take it at face value — the games are clearly meant to be one of the shining glories of the Putin era, so everyone is spending lots of money with government blessing on making it great. On the other hand, you could just assume it's all corruption — Russian opposition figures have called the whole thing a "monstrous scam" with up to $30 billion in funds stolen. What's nice about Yaffe's article is that it shows how — as always — the reality is more complicated than that. "The private investors helping fund Olympic construction are most likely motivated less by the pursuit of large profits," he writes, "than a tacit understanding that under Putin they have certain obligations to the Kremlin and the nation at large." Still, the runaway costs will almost certainly not go unpunished. According to the Businessweek article, one Russian official told Stephen Sestanovich, a former U.S. ambassador-at-large to the former Soviet Union and now a fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, “When all the celebrations are over, then the prosecutors come in.” FREE AppDownload
YouTube/Broc RomanekFrom money laundering to muscle relaxers, Stratton-Oakmont's employees do some pretty wild things in Martin Scorsese's new film, The Wolf of Wall Street. But it turns out the firm's brokers were even more brazen — they were willing to pitch penny stocks to lawyers at the Securities and Exchange Commission. Former SEC staffer Broc Romanek shares a funny anecdote from back when the government was hunting Jordan Belfort, the real life "wolf." A lawyer in the corporation finance division in the late 1990s, Romanek was at home on a weekday when he received a cold phone call from a Stratton broker. "I can put you into this fast-rising company today," Romanek recalls the broker saying. "Um. I work for the SEC. This sounds like a boiler room operation," Romanek told the broker. "No matter. I can still get you into this once-in-a-lifetime opportunity," he pleaded. "I don't think you heard me. I will report you to our Enforcement Division," warned Romanek. "I think you really want into this deal now." Indeed, Romanek did report Stratton to the Enforcement Division, who didn't need it. They were already coming down on the firm. Stratton "went poof" within the year. Hear Romanek tell the story:  FREE AppDownload
Wal-Mart just recalled donkey meat in China because it contained meat from other animals, including fox.  Despite the recent scandal, the mega-retailer has become wildly popular in China. Wal-Mart plans to open 110 additional stores there in the next few years.  Shopping at a Chinese Wal-Mart is totally different from shopping in one in the U.S.  We highlighted some notable contrasts.  1. People pick up raw meat to buy with their bare hands.  Reuters captured this image of customers selecting pieces of rabbit meat with their bare hands at a Wal-Mart Supercenter in the Chongqing municipality.  Reuters Staff/Reuters  2. The crowds are way worse.  Reuters shows an insane stampede at a newly-opened Shanghai location. Travel writer Catherine Bodry says that Chinese Wal-Marts are uncomfortably crowded inside, with no room for personal space.  Reuters Staff/Reuters  3. You can catch your own frogs, fish, and turtles.  American YouTube user ILuvTrading was a little creeped out by the open tanks. He also notes that they smell bad.   Wikimedia Commons 4. You don't buy in bulk.  Most Chinese shoppers don't have space at home to store massive quantities of food, so Wal-Mart offers smaller quantities there.  Wikimedia Commons  5. Wal-Mart offers free bus rides for shoppers.  YouTube user SurfDawg5 highlights how Wal-Mart makes it easy for shoppers to get to the store.  YouTube  6. You can buy alligator meat.  There are other exotic reptiles available if you prefer lizards.  Wikimedia Commons  7. LCD screens advertise the products in every aisle.  These advertisements can change with the displays.  PRNewswire  8. Rice is sold in giant, open vats.  Customers just scoop their quantity into a bag, similar to produce in America.  Wootang01 on Flickr 9. There are luxury candy sections.  Flickr user David Thiel was surprised at the impressive selection when he visited a store in Shanghai.  davidthiel on Flickr  10. Foods are mostly kept in the open instead of being packaged.  "The Chinese are more focused on eating natural-looking food straight from a farm," Brian Sozzi, chief equities strategist at Belus Capital, told us. "It doesn’t make sense to necessarily package a piece of steak at a Wal-Mart China." JSolomon on Flickr FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Amr Abdallah Dalsh Bitcoin continues to persevere through anything and everything thrown at it: fraud schemes, thefts, rulings from the People's Bank of China, etc. Prices have now recovered to more than $800 on the Mt. Gox exchange after falling below $500 late last year. So we are not totally surprised to see increasing coverage of the cryptocurrency by Wall Street analysts. In a new note to clients, Wedbush analyst Gil Luria lays out which companies Bitcoin and/or cryptocurrencies in general could boost, and destroy. "We believe Bitcoin and its associated technology represent a potential disruption to our covered companies," wrote Lauria. "Furthermore, we believe Bitcoin’s potential lies beyond the 'coin' as the underlying blockchain protocol can be used to replace traditional intermediaries by acting as an exchange mechanism for a multitude of transactions."  And now, the companies he's referring to: Overstock (ticker OSTK) The online retailer recently announced it would start accepting Bitcoin sometime this summer. Like most retailers who accept Bitcoin, it will immediately swap the currency for dollars to avoid price volatility.  "We believe OSTK will benefit from lower transaction charges as it starts accepting Bitcoin in 2014 (as well as related publicity push within the bitcoin community)," Luria writes.  ebay (ticker EBAY) Luria thinks its inevitable PayPal, which is owned by the, online merchant giant will start taking Bitcoin. "We see EBAY’s PayPal benefiting from lower funding costs when it allows Bitcoin in its digital wallet," he writes.  IBM (ticker IBM) IBM quietly released a video in November in which its executive architect for banking and finance said cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin "would change the world." "We believe IBM has become an early adopter of bitcoin technology (link), but other technology companies may benefit from the buildup of the crypto currency network almost unwittingly," Luria writes. Taiwan Semiconductor (ticker TSM) and Advanced Micro Devices (AMD) Only a small handful of chipmakers have the ability to manufacture the advanced processors needed to mine Bitcoin. TSM and AMD are the two largest. "We estimate &gt;$200 million has already been spent on Bitcoin network (mining) equipment this year, most meaningfully on chip fabricators TSM and AMD," Luria says. Western Union (ticker WU) and MoneyGram (ticker MGI) Bitcoin's value as a medium for transferring funds is the thing most often cited to justify its valuation. We've written about this previously here and here among other places. "We see some risk to money transfer companies such as WU and MGI as bitcoin technology makes it possible to perform remittance at a radically lower price," Luria writes. Visa (ticker V) and MasterCard (ticker MA) Another source of value for Bitcoin is the much lower fees needed to process payments, compared with those charged by the mega card companies. "We also see some longer-term threat to V and MA, especially in cross border and micro payments," Luria writes. CME (ticker CME), NASDAQ (ticker NDAQ), NYMEX (ticker NYX) There've yet to be any major breakdowns on this subject, and Luria doesn't provide much insight, though it seems possible Bitcoin trading could siphon away flows from precious metals.  "Although this may be even further out, we see a potential for the technology to encroach on exchange companies such as CME, NYX, NDAQ," he writes.  Luria is actually pretty negative on Bitcoin itself. But he is impressed by the technology underlying it, and cryptocurrencies in general. "We continue to believe there is a meaningful probability Bitcoin (the specific currency/conduit) may not succeed, but this will most likely be a result of the emergence of a better crypto currency," he wrote. "We believe alternative currencies will continue to emerge, though none of the current batch appears to be superior enough to overcome the substantial head start for Bitcoin.  "As with any new disruptive technology, we would expect the new powerful technology to continue to be utilized for nefarious purposes. We also believe that given the early stages of development and revolutionary technology, weaknesses will continue to be identified and at times exploited." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlo AllegriThe U.S. flag is reflected in the window of a police car as a police man stands guard in Times Square ahead of New Year's Eve celebrations in New York, December 31, 2013.After closing 2013 at an all-time high, U.S. stock markets are kicking off 2014 in the red. The Dow is down 150 points (0.9%). The S&amp;P 500 is down 19 points (1.0%). The Nasdaq is down 42 points (1.0%). Wall Street's strategists expect 2014 to be another up year for stocks. However, many expect to see a correction of around 10% before the year's over. Earlier today, we learned that manufacturing activity was still growing, albeit at a slower pace, in December. The ISM manufacting survey index fell to 57.0 during the month from 57.3 in November. The employment sub-index climbed to 56.9, the highest reading since June 2011. The new orders sub-index jumped to 64.2, the highest reading since April 2010. "The strength in ISM new orders is particularly encouraging, because it is a forward-looking component of the index, and it suggests that the headline will be able to sustain readings near recent levels in the near term," said Deustche Bank's Carl Riccadonna. "The resilience of the manufacturing ISM provides important corroboration that the economy is not slowing sharply in response to the large Q3 inventory build." Weekly unemployment insurance claims fell to 339,000 from 341,000 a week ago. "With two straight readings not far from our guesstimate of the underlying trend, it is tempting to argue that the claims numbers are settling after an extended period of extreme volatility, triggered by the California systems problems, the government shutdown and old-fashioned seasonal adjustment problems," said Pantheon Macroeconomics' Ian Shepherdon. FREE AppDownload
Deutsche BankGlobal manufacturing made a comeback in 2013 — except, that is, in the world's biggest emerging markets, the BRICs (Brazil, Russia, India, and China). The chart at right, courtesy of Alan Ruskin, global head of G10 FX strategy at Deutsche Bank, shows cumulative increases in country-specific manufacturing purchasing manager indices (PMIs) published by Markit over the course of 2013, updated with today's release of the December data. What is notable is that nearly across the board, these PMIs rose last year, suggesting improving business conditions for manufacturers around the world, save for in Denmark and the BRICs. Even non-BRIC emerging markets — like Turkey, South Korea, Hungary, and Indonesia — managed to eke out gains in their respective PMIs, while other EMs (Taiwan, Poland, Greece, and the Czech Republic) registered strong increases. Meanwhile, manufacturing in developed markets, like Japan, the U.S., and the eurozone roared to life, as the chart illustrates. FREE AppDownload
MarkitFor the past 18 hours we've been covering the latest manufacturing purchasing mangers index (PMI) data announced by countries around the world. Fifteen of 23 reported accelerating gains. Now we get our final aggregate reading for the world at large from JPMorgan, and it didn't disappoint, coming in at 53.3 compared with a prior reading of 53.1. That's the highest level since Feb. 2011  “The global manufacturing sector ended 2013 on a positive note," said David Hensley, Director of Global Economics Coordination at J.P.Morgan. "According to the global PMI, output was rising at the fastest pace in almost three years. Both final demand and inventory dynamics are supporting production. In addition, near-term dynamics appear to remain favorable, based on the elevated level of the global new orders PMI.” Here are the charts: Markit And the regional breakdown: Markit FREE AppDownload
Wall Street's research departments include both equity strategists and equity analysts. Strategists publish targets for stock markets as a whole from their big picture analysis (i.e top down analysis). Analysts publish price targets on individual stocks based on their analyses of the companies they cover (i.e. bottom up analysis). Unfortunately, strategists' expectations rarely line up with the aggregation of analysts' expectations (You can derive analysts' implied target for the S&amp;P 500 by combining their price targets for the respective companies they cover). And according to 10,706 ratings compiled and analyzed by FactSet, strategists expect the market to be lower in 12 months while analysts (in aggregate) expect the market to be higher. From FactSet's John Butters: Industry analysts in aggregate predict the S&amp;P 500 will see a 4.8% increase in price over the next twelve months. This percentage is based on the difference between the bottom-up target price and the closing price for the index at the end of December. Aggregating the mean target price estimates (based on company-level estimates submitted by industry analysts) for all 500 companies in the index, the bottom- up target price for the S&amp;P 500 is 1937.91, which is 4.8% above the closing price of 1848.36. It is interesting to note that this is the lowest percentage price increase predicted by the industry analysts for a year in the past five years (2008 – 2013). Market strategists, on the other hand, predict the S&amp;P 500 will see a 2.3% decrease in price over the next twelve months. This percentage is based on the difference between the top down mean target price and the closing price for the index at the end of December. Taking the average of the eight index- level target price estimates submitted to FactSet by market strategists, the top-down mean target price for the S&amp;P 500 is 1806.25, which is 2.3% below the closing price of 1848.36. "Who will be correct?" asked Butters. "It is interesting to note that over the past three years (on a monthly basis), the industry analysts have overestimated the closing price of the index 12 months later by 2.6%, while the market strategists have underestimated the closing price of the index 12 months later by 2.6%." Note: The 14 strategists followed by Business Insider expect the S&amp;P 500 to top 1,950. FactSet FREE AppDownload
There's one big unanswered question that dogs Bitcoin: Why does it have any value?  Economist Brad DeLong explained the conundrum best: Underpinning the value of gold is that if all else fails you can use it to make pretty things. Underpinning the value of the dollar is a combination of (a) the fact that you can use them to pay your taxes to the U.S. government, and (b) that the Federal Reserve is a potential dollar sink and has promised to buy them back and extinguish them if their real value starts to sink at (much) more than 2%/year (yes, I know). Placing a ceiling on the value of gold is mining technology, and the prospect that if its price gets out of whack for long on the upside a great deal more of it will be created. Placing a ceiling on the value of the dollar is the Federal Reserve’s role as actual dollar source, and its commitment not to allow deflation to happen. Placing a ceiling on the value of bitcoins is computer technology and the form of the hash function… until the limit of 21 million bitcoins is reached. Placing a floor on the value of bitcoins is… what, exactly? If there is nothing underpinning Bitcoin, it could easily collapse to zero. That would zap all the money people have spent on bitcoins, plus the millions pouring in via venture investing. It would also seemingly negate the technological innovation that makes Bitcoin something special.  We asked Chris Dixon for his take on why Bitcoin has value.  Dixon is an investor in Bitcoin, and one of its most ardent supporters. He wrote an eloquent blog post explaining why he's excited about it. The core of his enthusiasm comes from watching as the economy was nuked by the financial system in 2008, and hoping that a new payment mechanism could create a less disastrous outcome: If not for political reasons, why am I interested in Bitcoin? Like a lot of people, I was disturbed by the aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis. I thought the government did what it had to do at the peak of the crisis but missed an important opportunity afterwards to reform the financial system. It seemed to me that there were two ways to improve the system: from above through regulation (which I support), or from below through competition. ... I started getting interested in Bitcoin about two years ago. Like a lot of people I initially dismissed Bitcoin as a speculative bubble (“Internet tulip bulbs”) or a place to stash money for people worried about inflation (“Internet gold”). At some point, I had an “aha!” moment and realized that Bitcoin was best understood as a new software protocol through which you could rebuild the payments industry in ways that are better and cheaper. Nowhere in his post, however, did he address why Bitcoin has value. Without a reason for it to have value, it could lead to the same sort of disastrous outcome we saw with the financial crisis.  I emailed Dixon and asked, "One criticism of Bitcoin, which Paul Krugman made, is that there is nothing in it that stores value. What do you say to that?" His response: "I think domain names are a good analogy. If someone proposed buying them in 1993, you could imagine lots of counter argument's similar to Professor Krugman's. When you buy Bitcoin's you are reserving a slot on the Internet's digital ledger." I didn't totally get his analogy, so I asked for a follow up. He wrote: "The best way to understand the value of Bitcoin is to think of other core internet resources that have a limited supply. Domain names give you the ability to host a website IP addresses give you the ability to connect a computer to the internet Bitcoin gives you the ability to send payments, property, and contracts anywhere in the world instantly and reliably There are markets for domain names and IP addresses. The prices tend to correlate to how useful people find those resources. Long term, if Bitcoin gains widespread adoption, I'd expect the Bitcoin price to correlate to how useful people think sending payments, property and contracts anywhere in the world instantly and reliably is. Personally I think this could be more useful than wearing jewelry, but maybe that's just me." I still didn't fully get it, so we emailed him one more time, and he graciously wrote back. (Keep in mind I was emailing on New Year's Eve, so he was quite generous with his time.) Here's his final response: "Happy to talk about it more. I might need to write a blog post to fully explain it. My view is that the economists talking about Bitcoin haven't really gotten into the technical aspects and are talking about something completely different ('Internet gold'). If they understood what Bitcoin really is, they'd think about the value in the way I'm describing." I left him alone after that, it was New Year's Eve after all.  Personally, I'm still a little underwhelmed by this explanation, but pulling back, I don't think it matters. For lack of a better way of phrasing it, people like Brad DeLong and Paul Krugman are skeptical of Bitcoin, but their skepticism manifests itself as words. People like Dixon believe in Bitcoin, and that manifests itself through millions of dollars in investment, as well staking his reputation as one of the great venture capitalists on the success of Bitcoin. Dixon is no dummy, so I don't think he's blowing millions for no apparent reason. He's thought through the conundrums and decided Bitcoin makes sense in the long run. There is reason for a lot of skepticism, but in this case, I think there is reason to believe Dixon's theory on Bitcoin even if he can't perfectly articulate it to my liking.  Disclosure: Marc Andreessen, co-founder of Andreessen Horowitz, is an investor in Business Insider. FREE AppDownload
Naoya Fujishiro/WIREDFifteen of 22 nations reporting manufacturing data saw gains accelerate in December. At the beginning of each month, Markit, HSBC, RBC, JP Morgan, and other data gathering institutions publish the latest local readings of the purchasing managers index (PMI).  Each reading is based on surveys of hundreds of companies in each country.  We'll be covering most live as they come out. About two-thirds of countries reporting data have seen faster expansions than in November. The global index also edged higher. As a general rule, manufacturing PMI™ surveys are always released on the first working day of each month, construction PMIs on the second working day and services PMIs on the third working day. These are not the most closely followed data points.  However, the power of the insights is unparalleled. Jim O'Neill, Chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management, believes the PMI numbers are among the most reliable economic indicators in the world. Here's the scorecard for Thursday so far: South Korea: HSBC Manufacturing PMI — 50.8, up from 50.4 in November; a seven-month high China: HSBC Manufacturing PMI — 50.5, down from 50.8 in November, and a three-month low Vietnam: HSBC Manufacturing PMI — 51.8, up from 50.3 in November; the sharpest expansion of output since April 2011  Taiwan: HSBC Manufacturing PMI — 55.2, up from 53.4 in November; also the greatest expansion of output since April 2011 Indonesia: HSBC Manufacturing PMI — 50.9, up from 50.3 in November; the fourth-straight month of gains Spain: Markit Manufacturing PMI — 50.8, up from 49.8 in November; output rises at fastest pace since May 2011 India: HSBC Manufacturing PMI — 50.7, down from 51.3  in November; business conditions improve for second month in a row Ireland: Investec Manufacturing PMI — 53.5, up from 52.4  in November; firms raise output for fourth month in a row Netherlands: NEVI Manufacturing PMI — 57.0, up from 56.8  in November; new orders increase at sharpest rate since April 2011 Poland: HSBC Manufacturing PMI — 53.2, down from 54.4  in November; employment continues to rise at solid pace Turkey: HSBC Manufacturing PMI — 53.5, down from 55.0  in November; index remains above long-term average Czech Republic: HSBC Manufacturing PMI — 55.4, up from 54.7  in November; eighth-straight month of expansion Italy: Markit/ADACI Manufacturing PMI — 53.4, up from 51.1  in November; output growth hits 32-month high  France: Markit Manufacturing PMI — 47.0, down from 48.4  in November; index at seven-month low Germany: Markit/BME Manufacturing PMI — 54.3, up from 52.4; index at two-and-a-half-year high Eurozone: Markit Manufacturing PMI — 52.7, up from 51.6  in November; 31-month high Greece: Markit Manufacturing PMI — 49.6, up from 49.2 in November; output expands for second-straight month UK: Markit / CIPS Manufacturing PMI — 57.3, down from 58.1 in November, which had been a 33-month high  Australia: Ai Group PMI — 47.6, unchanged; contraction continues Brazil: HSBC Manufacturing PMI — 50.5, up from 49.7 in November; output climbed for the fourth-straight month U.S.: Markit Manufacturing PMI — 55.0, up from 54.7 in November; output at highest level since March 2012 Canada RBC Manufacturing PMI — 53.5, down from 55.3 in November; a four-month low Mexico: HSBC Manufacturing PMI — 52.6, up from 51.9 in November; output growth accelerates to 10-month high Worldwide: JPMorgan Manufacturing PMI — 53.3, up from 53.1 in November; 32-month high FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Mike BlakeConstruction spending climbed 1% month-over-month in November, and was up 5.9% from a year ago.  While the numbers may look good, Ian Shepherdson of Pantheon Macroeconomics argues that they're horribly unreliable. First, he points out that the net revision for November and October was a massive +1.8%. Furthermore September's figures were revised up to 1.4% from 0.3%. Within that September report, residential spending was revised up to 5.4% from 1.7%.  These constant massive revisions are why he thinks the data is "published far too early and are therefore deeply unreliable." Shepherdson also points out that while the headline number looks good, the key components of the index are slowing in Q4 as compared to Q3. As for the other slowing components: "For what it's worth, the new data show private spending up 2.2% in Nov, split between res and non-res, but public spending - mostly state and local - fell 1.8%, after a 3.1% Oct leap. The latter looks set to rise about 3% annualized in Q4,  after an 11.9% Q3 increase, so will make a much smaller contribution to GDP growth. Private housing gains have also slowed sharply, with a less dramatic softening in non-res." Pantheon Macroeconomics Economists expect home price growth to slow in the coming year. They are also closely watching the impact that the Fed's taper, of its monthly asset purchase program, could have on mortgage rates. FREE AppDownload
National Weather ServiceThe National Weather Service is calling for 6 to 8 inches of snow in New York City, falling overnight into Friday. The first major snowstorm of 2014, named Winter Storm Hercules by The Weather Channel, could bring near blizzard conditions and bitter cold temperatures to much of the Northeast starting Thursday night and lasting into Friday.   The National Weather Service has issued a winter storm warning for New York City, Northeast New Jersey, and Southern Westchester County and is calling for 4 to 8 inches of snow in these areas, much of it falling overnight.  Temperatures are also expected to plummet into the teens tonight and into Friday morning. Low temperatures will make for dry, powdery snow that can easily be blown around by strong winds. This could create whiteout conditions, making travel extremely dangerous.  Blizzard warnings have also been issued in Long Island, remaining in effect from 6 p.m. EST tonight to Friday afternoon. Nassau and Suffolk counties can expect 6 to 10 inches of snow, the weather service said.  "It's going to be a pretty significant storm, which will cause major travel disruption for a lot of people early in the new year," Dave Houtz, senior meteorologist at The Weather Channel, told NBC News. "Any untreated roads will be a real mess." FREE AppDownload
This week, while we were all prepping to ring in the New Year, Buzzfeed published a gruff e-mail exchange between late-hedge fund manager Bob Wilson, and Bill Gates. Gates wanted Wilson to join his 'Giving Pledge,' — something Wilson saw more as a social club for the super rich trying to feel good about themselves than an actual useful way to give back. And since Wilson  knew he didn't need Gates' pledge to give away almost $500 million, he saw the invite as a Regina George move to get him over to Gates' lunch table. This is how it's done in billionaire land: Gates opens his initial letter with a slight name drop — "I’m writing to let you know about an idea we’re calling the “Giving Pledge” that came out of a number of conversations that Melinda and Warren and I have had with a number of people over the past year." And then Gates gets to the real point of the pledge, creating a club for like minded givers with events, etc. — "The key benefit of your getting involved in the pledge would be having people learn more from your example both in your pledge letter and your participation in the yearly events." In short: On Fridays we wear pink, and it's really fun. Now in life, Wilson was not big shaking hands and kissing babies. He was intimidating and direct, demanding and exacting. His curt responses to Gates, however, say as much about Gates and the state of charity among the super rich as they do about Wilson. From Wilson's letter: Your “Giving Pledge” has a loophole that renders it practically worthless, namely permitting pledges to simply name charities in their wills. I have found that most billionaires or near billionaires hate giving large sums of money away while alive and instead set up family-controlled foundations to do it for them after death. And these foundations become, more often than not, bureaucracy-ridden sluggards. These rich are delighted to toss off a few million a year in order to remain socially acceptable. But that’s it. Wilson also said he wouldn't have any "fun" with these people anyway. These are the people that buy into what Peter Buffett (Warren's son) called "The Charitable Industrial Complex," in a New York Times column last year. "Philanthropy," Buffett wrote, "has become the “it” vehicle to level the playing field and has generated a growing number of gatherings, workshops and affinity groups." Unfortunately, he argues that these groups exist more to allow the rich to "sleep better at night, while others get just enough to keep the pot from boiling over."  To Buffett, the family controlled foundations and groups Wilson complained about lack real innovation. They throw money at systems that hurt people, instead of working to change systemic poverty and violence at its root. This isn't to say it's not great to shake hands and kiss babies and show your face at a 'Giving Pledge' annual cook-out or something, if that's your thing, but it wasn't Wilson's. And to him, the schmoozing lacked substance. He didn't need anyone's help to give away almost the entirety of his $800 million fortune anyway. Why should he have to wear pink on Fridays? So he politely declined Gates' offer to sit at the 'Giving Pledge' table.  FREE AppDownload
Photo by Dimitrios Kambouris/Getty ImagesSee where Telemundo's Alessandra Villegas fell on our list.Obviously, Ron Burgundy is the sexiest broadcast journalist on the silver screen. But there's a ton of actual on-air talent who give the "Anchorman" a run for his money. They're on TV every morning, afternoon, and evening, giving viewers all the latest news in business, entertainment, and politics. FREE AppDownload
Q4 just ended, which means earnings season is about to kick off. For the full year, strategists estimate that the S&amp;P 500 delivered earnings per share (EPS) of $109 in 2013.  Looking ahead, they estimate the S&amp;P will deliver around $117 in 2014. Keep in mind, strategists tend to be off when it comes to forecasting earnings. This chart of evolving annual earnings expectations from Gerard Minack just looks like chaos. Morgan Stanley According to Morgan Stanley's Adam Parker, the average shows downward revisions, which means strategists tend to start the year optimistically. Morgan Stanley This shorter term chart from David Bianco is interesting. It shows that after sharp market downturns, like the dotcom and credit bubble busts, strategists tend to underestimate earnings but gradually overestimate earnings as markets mature. Deutsche Bank The trend suggests that analysts are probably on the bullish side right now.  Indeed, the latest data from FactSet shows that the ratio of companies announcing negative earnings guidance to companies announcing positive earnings guidance is the highest on record. FactSet FREE AppDownload
Lowndes County Sheriff’s Office/Glynn County Detention Center via The New York Daily NewsAubrey Lee PriceA Georgia banker wanted by the FBI for a $21 million investor fraud was finally captured when cops stopped him for illegally tinted car windows, The New York Daily News reports. Aubrey Lee Price, 47, went on the run in 2012 after writing friends a purported suicide note admitting to "horrendous financial mistakes" and saying "it would be better for me to exit this world." Of course, Price — who was last seen boarding a ferry in Key West, Fla. — did not leave the world. He was ultimately caught in Brunswick, Ga. after cops pulled him over and realized who he was after just a little questioning, the Daily News reported. The Glynn County Sheriff's Office in Georgia booked him on New Year's Eve and noted he was being held for federal authorities. A federal warrant was put out for Price's arrest in New York in June 2012 after he was charged with wire fraud. Price was also hit with a civil action by the SEC that year claiming he perpetrated a massive fraud through two investor funds while he was the director of the Montgomery Bank &amp; Trust in Ailey, Ga. The two funds suffered massive losses and there were also "frequent large wires transferred out of the account," according to the SEC complaint. Price allegedly made up account statements with bogus returns on them to cover these big losses and illicit transfers. Price was also accused of embezzling millions from the troubled bank that he directed, the Atlanta Journal-Constitution reported in June 2012. After his disappearance, the AJC spoke with clients who didn't think Price's suicide was authentic. "I don't believe he's dead. I believe he planned for this exit," Wendy Cross, who lost her $364,000 nest egg by investing with Price, told the AJC. In his "suicide note" posted by the AJC, Price indicated that he'd been hounded by investors and said he wished he had come clean earlier. "The phone calls from certain angry bank investors was difficult to bear and I continued to try to and hold out hope to them. This was very painful," Price said. "I should have just acknowledged all the painful losses and just dealt with it." FREE AppDownload
YouTube/PIMCOThe bond market has not been kind to Bill Gross.PIMCO's total return fund was down 0.96% in December, beating only 6% of its peers, according to Morningstar. PIMCO's total return ETF was down 0.85%, the worst in class. For the eighth straight month, it saw outflows ($115.8 million in December). After a thirty year bull market in bonds, investors have been fleeing the bond market and pumping more money into stocks. Interest rates rallied going into the end of the year, which means bond prices fell. In November, PIMCO lost its top dog status as the world's largest mutual fund. The fund, operated by legendary investor Bill Gross, had beat 77% of its opponents over the past five years before falling behind many of them this year. FREE AppDownload
Mark Davis/GettyHere's a prediction I'll make with 100% confidence: At some point in 2014 a celebrity will launch their own currency a la Bitcoin, Litecoin or Dogecoin. I've had this thought before, but was reminded of it by the fact that someone has launched a cryptocurrency called CoinYe West inspired by Kanye. He's not connected to it in any way, but it's only a matter of time before a celebrity (possibly Kanye, since he has the ambitious frame of mind for it) does actually do it. For one thing, it's very easy. All the code to basically replicate Bitcoin is open source. Furthermore, as Dogecoin has shown, there's a big opportunity for a coin to become the preferred "currency" within an online community. In the case of Dogecoin, it's already the second most popular currency on Reddit for tippers as it has strong uptake among fans of absurd internet memes.. In addition to being shared among fans, the celebrity could create value for the currency by selling tickets in that currency or other merch or other access to the celebrity. Given the ease, the headlines it will draw, and the obvious boost to the ego, this will happen. Probably pretty soon. So the question is only: who will do it first. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Hannibal HanschkeA woman stands in front of a illuminated picture of a mathematical Quasi-Crystal on display in the fortress in the eastern German city of Dresden December 14, 2006.In today's data-driven economy, those with excellent math skills don't have to look far to find high-paying, high-growth jobs open for the taking. To find out which jobs offer the best opportunities for people who love math, we analyzed CareerCast's list of the top 200 occupations in 2013 and pulled out those jobs that require analytical math skills. CareerCast, a job search site, measured the stress, physical demands, and both the current and future employment outlook of the 200 occupations. The overall score for each job takes into account the pay; hiring outlook; stress; emotional factors, including the level of competitiveness and degree of public contact; and physical demands, such as stamina required and work conditions, that normally come with the job. Once the categories are combined, a lower overall score signals that the job is more desirable to employees. Much of the data used to evaluate the jobs comes from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, other government agencies, trade associations, and private survey firms. FREE AppDownload
 Hulton Archive/Getty ImagesStocks have started trading in the new year of 2014. They're down! Fortunately, they're not down much. Yet. But one alarming thing about making any negative observation about the stock market these days is that you quickly get heaped with scorn and ridicule. Meanwhile, Wall Street strategists are already one-upping each other in the race to be the most bullish. The amazing run that stocks have had over the last several years has certainly been exciting and fun for those of us who own stocks. I own stocks, so I have certainly enjoyed it. I hope stocks continue to charge higher through 2014, but, unlike most Wall Street strategists, I can't find much data to suggest that they will. I only have a vague hope that the Fed will continue to pump air into the balloon and corporations will continue to find ways to cut more costs and grow their already record-high profit margins and earnings. And, yes, if the U.S. economy finally starts cranking again, that will likely be a huge help. But, meanwhile, every valid valuation measure I look at suggests that stocks are at least 40% overvalued. That doesn't mean that stocks will crash. But it does strongly suggest that, at best, stocks are likely to produce lousy returns over the next 10 years. Which valuation measures suggest the stock market is very overvalued? These, among others: (See charts below.) How lousy do these measures suggest stock returns will be over the next decade? About 2% per year for the S&amp;P 500, including dividends — a far cry from the double-digit returns of the past five years and the ~10% long-term average. If stocks just park at this level for a decade and return 2% a year through dividends, that wouldn't be particularly traumatic. But stocks rarely "park." They usually boom and bust. So the farther we get away from average valuations, the more the potential for a bust increases. So the higher we go, the less surprised I will be to see the stock market crash.  How big a crash could we get? According to the aforementioned valuation measures, and the work of analysts like John Hussman of the Hussman Funds, 40%-55%. A 50% crash would take the S&amp;P 500 below 900 and the DOW below 8,000. Is that going to happen? I don't know. But it wouldn't surprise me.  One thing I do know is that no one else knows, either. We're all just dealing in probabilities. And, just as importantly, no one knows when. Valuation measures like the ones above are unfortunately not helpful in predicting short- or intermediate-term market moves. So, maybe the market will continue to move higher through 2014. I certainly would be happy about that. But a careful study of history suggests that a crash is increasingly likely and that long-term stock returns from this level are likely to be crappy. I've explained here why I think the odds of a crash are increasing. And I've also explained why, despite this, I'm not selling my stocks. (In short, because I am a long-term investor, I am mentally prepared for a crash, and I am planning to ride out any crash, the same way I did with the 2008-2009 crash. And also because none of the other major asset classes are particularly compelling investments at these prices, either.). I have also argued that everyone who thinks we will all see a "sign" or "catalyst" before a crash should brush up on their history.  In defense of the bulls, there are at least three sophisticated arguments about why the aforementioned valuation measures are wrong — and, therefore, that "it's different this time." These are all sophisticated arguments, and they merit close consideration. After considering them, however, I don't find any of them particularly persuasive. Or, more accurately, I don't find any of them to be more persuasive than the long-term valuation measures I have cited above. All of these bullish arguments, moreover, boil down to the following: "It's different this time." "It's different this time," are known as "the four most expensive words in the English language." Because, too often, when investors and analysts try to justify high prices by arguing that "it's different this time," it turns out not to be different, and the investors and analysts end up losing their shirts. (I know this from experience. Back in 1999, I used a variety of "it's different this time" arguments to persuade myself and others that the dotcom stocks could continue appreciating. They could have. But they didn't.) Of course, you can't just scoff at those arguing that it's different this time by saying that it's never different this time, because sometimes it is. And that, among other reasons, is why it makes little sense to expend too much energy trying to forecast the market. Because it's really hard to be right consistently enough to avoid costing yourself serious money. But making specific forecasts is different from managing your own expectations and being comfortable with a range of possible outcomes. And my own expectations are that 1) stocks will have lousy returns over the next decade, and 2) the odds of a severe market pullback are steadily increasing. I will therefore not be surprised to see stocks crash in 2014. And neither should you! Below are some of the charts that show why I am concerned ... The following three charts show three long-term, time-tested valuation measures, all of which suggest the market is drastically overvalued. First, from Bill Hester of the Hussman Funds, a recent chart of Professor Robert Shiller's "CAPE" (cyclically-adjusted PE ratio). The blue line shows the prediction for 10-year returns. The red line shows the actual returns. If you have heard people say, "CAPE doesn't work anymore," you might want to read Bill Hester's analysis. He looks at all the arguments why CAPE doesn't work and concludes that it does. (We'll know for sure in 10 years.) Hussman Funds Second, in case you have been convinced that "CAPE" no longer works, here's a look at price-to-revenue. This measure is calling for a slightly better long-term return for the S&amp;P 500 — just under 5% — but still a far cry from the long-term average. Hussman Funds Third, in case your favorite bulls wave away both earnings and revenue, here's a chart of market-value-to-GDP. It's the most pessimistic of the lot. This chart suggests that the S&amp;P 500's average annual returns for the next 10 years will be negative. Hussman Funds One thing that people do when stocks get expensive is to find ways to explain why they aren't expensive. They don't do this to hoodwink you. They do this because stocks have been expensive for so long that the obvious conclusion must be that they're not expensive — that it's different this time. One measure that people are using right now to argue that stocks are not expensive is the difference between the "earnings yield" and "Treasury yield." Interest rates are low and earnings are high, so it appears that stocks are delivering far higher "yields" than bonds and are therefore cheap. The problem with this analysis is that it doesn't work. Check out this chart below from John Hussman, which "backtests" the analysis. It doesn't have any predictive power at all. Hussman Funds Over the long haul, stocks track profits. And profits and profit margins are at record highs. Every time previously that profit margins have gotten way above or below average, they have violently reverted to the mean. Many people, including me, think this will happen again this time. The only question is when. Here's a long-term look at profit margins. Note how high they are. Note what has happened every time this has been the case in the past. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed Byron Wien, a strategist at Blackstone, is worried about profit margins. He also just circulated this chart, which he says suggests that profit margins are "rolling over." This, he says, is bad news for earnings in 2014. Blackstone, Wisdomtree John Hussman is also worried about profits. He thinks profit margins are so out of whack that corporate earnings will decline at 10% per year for the next four years. Hussman Funds Hussman thinks that two things might cause profits to tank: 1) the decline of government deficits (which have been going directly into corporate coffers), and 2) increasing labor costs, as the labor market gets tighter. Hussman believes that these factors are already causing profits to miss estimates. This, Hussman suggests, may be why there are suddenly way more companies missing profit estimates than beating them: Market timing is always tough, and I don't know when profits and the market might break down. That really is anyone's guess. John Hussman has posted a fun technical chart addressing this question, though. Technical analysis is generally bunk, and I would never bet a dime on it. But it's also often fun. And this chart is especially fun. This chart suggests that the S&amp;P rise off the 2009 bottom has followed a clear "fractal" pattern that is often seen near the end of speculative advances. This chart suggests that the S&amp;P 500 (blue) might hit 1900 before collapsing. (It's at about 1,820 now). Hussman Funds Anyway, maybe it is indeed "different this time." So do what you want. But don't say you weren't warned! FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Randle HillSections of a 787 Dreamliner being built for Air India are seen at Boeing's final assembly building in North Charleston, South Carolina December 19, 2013. The Institute for Supply Management's manufacturing survey hit 57. Expectations were for a decline to 56.8, from November's reading of 57.3. We just got a solid reading from Markit's PMI measure of U.S. manufacturing, so let's see if we can keep the momentum going. FULL RELEASE » (Tempe, Arizona) — Economic activity in the manufacturing sector expanded in December for the seventh consecutive month, and theoverall economy grew for the 55th consecutive month, say the nation's supply executives in the latest Manufacturing ISM Report On Business®. The report was issued today by Bradley J. Holcomb, CPSM, CPSD, chair of the Institute for Supply Management™ Manufacturing Business Survey Committee. "The PMI™ registered 57 percent, the second highest reading for the year, just 0.3 percentage point below November's reading of 57.3 percent. The New Orders Index increased in December by 0.6 percentage point to 64.2 percent, which is its highest reading since April 2010 when it registered 65.1 percent. The Employment Index registered 56.9 percent, an increase of 0.4 percentage point compared to November's reading of 56.5 percent. December's employment reading is the highest since June 2011 when the Employment Index registered 59 percent. Comments from the panel generally reflect a solid final month of the year, capping off the second half of 2013, which was characterized by continuous growth and momentum in manufacturing." Of the 18 manufacturing industries, 13 are reporting growth in December in the following order: Furniture &amp; Related Products; Plastics &amp; Rubber Products; Textile Mills; Apparel, Leather &amp; Allied Products; Computer &amp; Electronic Products; Paper Products; Transportation Equipment; Primary Metals; Fabricated Metal Products; Wood Products; Printing &amp; Related Support Activities; Food, Beverage &amp; Tobacco Products; and Miscellaneous Manufacturing. The four industries reporting contraction in December are: Nonmetallic Mineral Products; Machinery; Chemical Products; and Electrical Equipment, Appliances &amp; Components. FREE AppDownload
Getty Images/Joe ReadleConstruction spending climbed 1% month-over-month in November. This beat expectations for a 0.6% monthly rise. Construction spending hit the highest levels since 2009. On an annual basis, construction spending was up 5.9%. Meanwhile, October's reading was revised up to show a 0.9% monthly rise. A breakdown showed that total residential spending was up 1.7% on the month and 16% on the year. Private residential spending was up 1.9% on the month and 16.6% on the year. Meanwhile, public residential construction was down a whopping 6.4% on the month and 13.4% on the year. Homebuilder confidence surged to 58 in December but economists are expecting home prices to cool going forward. FREE AppDownload
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVBob Doll predicts the U.S. economy will grow 3% in 2014.Nuveen Asset Management's Bob Doll expects 2014 economic growth will be "broader and stronger" but remain moderate for the U.S. and the rest of the world. But Doll, the former top strategist at BlackRock, expects stocks to fall 10% before ending the year in the green. In a new note to clients, Doll writes that "macroeconomic risks are diminishing as economies improve, which may help reduce fear and strengthen confidence." He sees the U.S. economy expanding by 3% this year. "U.S. fiscal drag is lessening, Europe is emerging from recession, Japan’s deflationary headwinds are diminishing, and China is showing signs of stabilization," he writes. "Improving sentiment for U.S. corporations, along with strengthening consumption, should lead to an increase in capital spending and a relatively stronger growth trajectory." As is his custom, Doll makes 10 predictions for 2014. Here they are: FREE AppDownload
Dutch newspaper Volkskrant has collaged French President François Hollande's year of awkwardly botched handshakes with other world leaders. The photo series, which has quickly spread through social media, visually lambastes the French leader for bad diplomacy. Although, as "Le Huffington Post" notes, some of the photos were snapped seconds before an actual handshake takes place, so perhaps Hollande just tends to make the overture first. Check it out: Twitter.com/hansaarsman   FREE AppDownload
Hedge funds globally expanded assets under management by $228.8 billion to an all-time high of $2.01 trillion in 2013, according to Eurekahedge. Below are some 2013 industry highlights from the world's largest alternative investment funds research house: FREE AppDownload
Weekly jobless claims fell to 339,000. Expectations were for 344,000 versus a revised 341,000 prior. The four-week moving averaged ticked slightly higher. Full release » Pantheon Macro's Ian Shepherdson says seasonal distortions continue to make this figure noisy: "With two straight readings not far from our guesstimate of the underlying trend, it is tempting to argue that the claims numbers are settling after an extended period of extreme volatility, triggered by the California systems problems, the government shutdown and old-fashioned seasonal adjustment problems.  But we think it makes sense to remain cautious. Indeed, we think the odds favor a sharp drop in claims next week, to perhaps 310K or so, followed by a rebound to about 340K the following week. The data likely won't be free of seasonal distortions until the middle of this month.  For now, we're guessing that the trend in layoffs is flat-to-slightly downwards, but we cannot be sure." Here's what they've been looking like since 2011 — they've come up a bit recently. Econoday FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVTom Lee sees 2,075!Even the more bullish analysts on Wall Street undershot the big rally in 2013. So they're likely determined to not miss what 2014 has in store for this market. We thumbed through hundreds of pages of Wall Street's 2014 outlook notes and compiled the thoughts of 14 top stock market forecasters. For 2014, the average call is for the S&amp;P 500 to hit 1,955, with the median prediction at 1,950. For EPS, the mean call is $117.20 with a median of $116.75. Here are Wall Street's top strategists with their S&amp;P 500 and EPS calls (from lowest to highest), with their commentary on why. From bullish to most bullish: David Bianco, Deutsche Bank: S&amp;P: 1,850: EPS: $119.00 In June, we introduced 2014 &amp; 2015 yearend S&amp;P targets of 1850 and 2000. We argued the S&amp;P PE would climb to its normal trailing PE of 16x (&lt;15x then) as healthy EPS growth continued within a long lasting expansionary cycle of moderate growth. We also argued that if real long-term risk free interest rates stayed below historical norms when QE stopped, then a PE over 16x trailing EPS would be fair. The PE is back to normal, a bit earlier than expected, but the Fed has yet to taper. Thus, we think it prudent not to assume any further PE upside until we get more clarity on where 10yr yields likely settle post QE. Brian Belski, BMO: S&amp;P 1,900, EPS: $116.00  We enter 2014 less optimistic than we have been in the past few years. Our models suggest mid-single-digit gains in 2014 based on slightly lower risk premiums, better revision trends and dividend increases, but macro conditions remain an obstacle. Given performance trends to date, we believe this the prudent approach. While valuation is by no means grossly overvalued, current levels suggest it may be more difficult for the market to continue its impressive run without equally impressive earnings growth. In addition, we believe investors will be acutely focused on Fed actions, since market performance has been significantly better during Fed bond buying programs. Therefore, we expect stocks to perform strongly during 1H, but fade during 2H as investors grapple with the removal of QE stimulus. Nonetheless, any Fed induced weakness should not be view as the end of this bull market. Instead investors with slightly longer investment horizons should use it a buying opportunity, particularly considering that several secular trends suggest that there are many more years of life in this cycle.  Barry Knapp, Barclays: S&amp;P: 1,900, EPS: $119.00 At the time of writing, attitudes toward stocks are very bullish, perhaps overly so. Although sentiment is easy to measure – several organisations do it – its relationship with market returns is ephemeral. Sentiment extremes often exist only briefly ahead of market turning points and disappear quickly as prices adjust, or even pause. Periods of persistent bullish or bearish sentiment are usually confirmed by excessively high or low valuations, which is not the case at present. Stocks have displayed an unusually tight relationship with sentiment since 2009. Thus, while establishing our core views for the coming year, we are holding some capacity with which to raise the risk of our portfolio further in case of a sentiment-led near-term sell-off.  David Kostin, Goldman Sachs: S&amp;P: 1,900, EPS: $116.00 The linchpin of our market forecast is growth – in the economy, sales, and earnings. We expect 3.6% global economic growth. The US will advance at a 3% pace while inflation remains contained at 1.4%. China, Japan, and even Europe will all grow, expanding GDP by 7.8%, 1.6%, and 1.5%, respectively....However, we expect no growth in margins and multiple in 2014. Recurring net margins have remained at a record-high plateau of roughly 8.7% since 2011. Firms have struggled to maintain profitability at current levels. We estimate flat margins for next several years. Client inquiries about the appropriate P/E multiple to assign US stocks routinely ignore that margins are extremely high on a historical basis and have been stagnant for several years. Valuation is the biggest wildcard in our market outlook. Michael Kurtz, Nomura: S&amp;P: 1,925, EPS: $112.50 Our S&amp;P 500 upside outlook for the year ahead is not predicated on comparatively optimistic earnings expectations. Rather, our own top-down forecast for 2014 S&amp;P 500 EPS is "just" $112.50/shr., or 5.6% higher than our 2013 top-down forecast of 106.50. Margins, as discussed, are the critical consideration: Against the highly optimistic (in our view) consensus forecast for 2014 U.S. Net Income and EBIT Margins to reach unprecedented levels of 10.8% and 15.7% respectively... we conservatively assume 2014 S&amp;P Net Income Margin will no more than maintain the 2012-2013 two year average (i.e., 9.3%). Sean Darby, Jefferies: S&amp;P: 1,950, EPS: $121.00 We expect the S&amp;P 500 to deliver modest returns with the index rising to 1,950 by the end of 2014. We believe the equity market is becoming fully valued and active investment strategies towards domestic growth and small caps ought to deliver better returns than multinationals and large caps. With sentiment indicators buoyant, margin debt close to historic levels and indices trading close to their 2 standard deviation based on forward PE over five years, investors need to be mindful that a correction can easily unfold. We don’t expect 2014 to be a smooth ride. Likewise earnings visibility will need to improve to maintain the recent fund flow momentum away from fixed income. Jonathan Golub, RBC: S&amp;P: 1,950, EPS: $119.00 Such strong [2013] performance might lead investors to assume that the recovery has matured. We believe that a close look at the data suggests that we are just now entering the middle innings. As a result of the weak recovery, the economy has lots of spare capacity, interest rates and valuations are well below historical averages, and corporate managements are exercising extreme risk-averse behavior. We believe these factors are likely to provide a supportive environment for stocks for three key reasons: 1. Slack in the economy will keep the Fed from disruptively removing accommodation 2. Risk-averse corporate behavior will drive EPS higher 3. Valuations should renormalize, closing the gap between earnings yields and interest rates. Julian Emanuel, UBS: S&amp;P: 1,950, EPS: $116.00 Although our projected S&amp;P 500 trailing valuation appears expensive on a recent historical basis, the much broader view of history strongly suggests that at some point in the current bull market cycle, valuations will indeed exceed 17x or more. In fact, in all but three of the post World War II bull markets, the multiple exceeded 17x on a trailing basis. Thus through the combination of strong corporate balance sheets, an accommodative Fed, and solid GDP growth fueling increased revenues in a high operating margin environment do we forecast an expanding multiple which yields our 2014 Year End S&amp;P 500 price target of 1,950.  Andrew Garthwaite, Credit Suisse: S&amp;P: 1,960, EPS: $115.90 Ultimately, we believe that the equity market is set to be on an uptrend until equities become clearly expensive against bonds, QE ends or risk appetite is clearly in euphoria zone (as opposed to neutral now). We have not seen a 10% correction for 25 months – but in the 1980’s, 1990’s and 2000’s we had three-year, seven-year and 41/2- year bull markets in equities without such a correction. Very near-term we see the risk of consolidation, with some of the tactical indicators extended (such as the bull/bear ratio for financial advisors, while net corporate buying is low) and we expect the Fed to start tapering in January. However, the tactical indicators are less extreme than was the case a month ago. Tobias Levkovich, Citigroup: S&amp;P: 1,975, EPS: $117.50 The good news from credit conditions, hiring intentions and capital spending plans on the economy and likely earnings growth can provide upside appreciation potential while sentiment, intra-stock correlation and even valuation suggest concern... Overall, we can get to a 1,975 kind of outcome, but we may also see choppier markets and early indicators on volatility also intimate reasons to be worried. [Updated from his previous call of 1,900] Savita Subramanian, Bank of America: S&amp;P: 2,000, EPS: $118.00 We believe the Standard and Poor's 500 Index will rise to 2,000 by the end of 2014, which implies a price return of about 11%... While that gain would be less than in 2013, our view is still higher than the consensus view on Wall Street... Take note that allocations to equities (53%) are lower than the benchmark (65%). As for the Federal Reserve, we believe tapering, accompanied by a growing economy, would actually benefit cyclical stocks. Adam Parker, Morgan Stanley: S&amp;P: 2,014, EPS: $116.00 Since last March, we have been sanguine on US equities. Our logic has been driven more by lack of a bear case than the strength of the base case. We have seen 3 turns (12.0x to 15.1x) of multiple expansion in the last 2 years, only the 4th period with this level of expansion over the last 40+ years. Obviously, a sample size of three isn’t statistically significant, but the prior three periods were all followed by a continuation of the rally for another 12-24 months, as momentum typically persists. The only thing people are worried about is that no one is worried about anything. That isn't a real worry. John Stoltzfus, Oppenheimer: S&amp;P: 2,014, EPS: $115.00 The 2014 target reflects our expectation that the stock market will have opportunity to move higher over the course of next year, and turn in yet another double-digit increase— albeit around half the size of this year’s rally to date. Our price target is set using the mid-point between our dividend discount model and a price/earnings model. We expect these valuation projections to be supported by improving fundamentals. We continue to believe that US economic growth has in effect been “primed” by the Federal Reserve’s Quantitative Easing (QE) programs. Recent improvements in the tone of US economic data suggest to us that prospects are good for investors to see a continuation of the economic recovery that could drive earnings higher in the year ahead. Tom Lee, JP Morgan: S&amp;P: 2,075, EPS: $120.00 For several years now we have advanced the idea that the current bull market could prove to be one of the longest in history. However, what we believe many investors have yet to fully appreciate is how this market is indeed behaving like a classic bull market...we believe this is a classic bull market and the 6th year is typically strong. Historically, bull markets lasting at least 4 years (since 1897) have only ended with a recession—that is, they typically do not end just because "everyone is too bullish." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/John GressA British Petroleum oil refinery sits on the shore of Lake Michigan in Whiting, Indiana, August 15, 2007. Markit PMI data for U.S. manufacturing hit 55, beating expectations. The production subcomponent as now at its greatest level since March 2012. The employment subcomponent accelerated. The purchasing manager's index (PMI) measures manufacturing activity. Expectations were for a reading of 54.7, unchanged from the previous reading. Here are the charts for the headline figure... Markit And output... Markit We've had a pretty solid Global PMI Day to kick off the new year, with France and Turkey the only notable laggards. Click here to see the full scorecard » FREE AppDownload
Societe GeneraleExports out of South Korea jumped 7.1% year-over-year to $48.1 billion in December, smashing expectations for a 4.8% gain. "Among the major export sectors, we watched relatively strong performances in the shipbuilding, semiconductors, auto, machinery and chemical sectors, while oil products, mobile phones and display devices were generally weak," noted Societe Generale's Suktae Oh. Oh said that the magnitude of the gains were largely due to base effects. However, the surprise was nevertheless a surprise. Korean trade data is very sensitive to the economic activity in developed and emerging Asia. It usually comes before the first trading session of the month in Asia, which makes it the first of the world's major economic indicators to be released. Economists across Wall Street dub South Korean exports asthe global economic canary in the coal mine. Recent Korean trade reports signaled strength in the U.S., but also revealed some slowing in China.  These trends were later confirmed by local economic data. It's worth noting that the reliability of Korean trade as an economic bellwether has been questionable lately due to volatility in the Japanese yen, the currency belonging to South Korea's key competition in international trade. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Bobby YipA croupier sits in front of a gaming table inside a casino in Macau.Macau's gambling revenue jumped 18.6 percent to a record $45 billion in 2013, official figures showed Thursday, cementing the city's place as the world's largest gaming hub. Gaming revenues rose to 360.75 billion patacas ($45.17 billion) last year from 304.14 billion patacas in 2012, according to government figures. There had been fears of a slowdown as year-on-year growth in 2012 was just 13.5 percent, compared to 42 percent in the previous year. Macau's gaming sector has seen a boom in recent years due to an influx of well-heeled Chinese gamblers, and the city's government has distributed cash handouts to its residents annually since 2008. But the high growth has also caused the Chinese and Macau governments to express concern about the city's gambling-dependent economy. The only part of China where casino gambling is legal, Macau overtook Las Vegas as the world's gaming capital in terms of revenue after the sector was opened up to foreign competition in 2002. Some 23 percent of Macau's total workforce are employed in the gaming sector. Six firms are licenced to operate casinos in the former Portuguese colony, which was handed back to Beijing in 1999. Casino operators have plans to expand their resorts on the Cotai Strip, a former swamp which has been reclaimed and transformed into a glittering centre for gamblers. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
Apple has been downgraded to "market perform" from "outperform" by Wells Fargo analyst Maynard Um.  Um's downgrade is based on gross margin concerns.  "Our bullish thesis on Apple had been predicated on the expectation for gross margin (GM) expansion driven by the 5s cycle," said Um in his note, according to Street Insider. "While we still have conviction in the gross margin thesis (and the potential for iPad/iPhone unit upside), we believe this may be largely embedded into the valuation." Um is also concerned that the balance of power is going to shift away from phone makers to carriers this year.  "Wireless operators have been offering generous subsidies of ~$400 per smartphone, getting the price to consumers to ~$250 in an effort to drive increased smartphone penetration," says Um, and it sounds like he's skeptical this can continue.  A few thoughts on that: 1. We believe Apple sets up long-term contracts with carriers, so we don't think this is an actual risk for Apple.  2. This meme was talked about last year, and Tim Cook generally shot it down by pointing out that carriers get loyal, high-priced customers from the iPhone. 3. This isn't a subsidy from the carriers, it's a charge that goes over 2 years. Jean Louis Gassee had a great post on this recently: "There is no subsidy. Carriers extend a loan that users pay back as part of the monthly service payment. Like any loan shark, the carrier likes its subscriber to stay indefinitely in debt, to always come back for more, for a new phone and its ever-revolving payments stream."  Anyway, Um has some positive thoughts about Apple. He could see the stock benefiting from an iWatch, iBeacons, an iPhone 6, and a new bigger dividend/buyback plan. The stock was down .75% in pre-market trading this morning. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Rick Wilking Cheri Hackett, co-owner of BotanaCare, carries bags of the company's sample packs of various strains of marijuana prepared for the store opening tomorrow in Northglenn, Colorado December 31, 2013. Proprietors of the first marijuana retailers licensed to sell pot for recreational use in Colorado, including BotanaCare, were busy rolling joints and stocking shelves with their leafy merchandise on Tuesday, ahead of a New Year's Day grand opening that marks a new chapter in America's drug culture. Good morning! Here's what you need to know. FREE AppDownload
Traders continue to punish the Turkish Lira as political instability wracks the country. On this first trading day of the year, the dollar is spiking to new highs against the the Lira. From XE.com: XE.com FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Brendan McDermidThis is the perfect way to start the business year: With a fat slate of economic data. Via Calculated Risk, here are the big numbers coming out: • At 8:30 AM ET, the initial weekly unemployment claims report will be released. The consensus is for claims to be unchanged at 338 thousand.• At 9:00 AM, the Markit US PMI Manufacturing Index for December. The consensus is for an decrease to 54.5 from 54.7 in November.• At 10:00 AM, the ISM Manufacturing Index for December. The consensus is for a decrease to 57.0 from 57.3 in November. The ISM manufacturing index indicated expansion in November at 57.3%. The employment index was at 56.5%, and the new orders index was at 63.6%.• Also at 10:00 AM, Construction Spending for November. The consensus is for a 1.0% increase in November construction spending. We'll be covering all the numbers LIVE. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
mwcarruthers at www.flickr.comTHE YEAR HAS BEGUN... and markets are sagging. Stocks started the day in the green, but mostly across Europe they have turned south. Germany is down 0.5%. The UK is off 0.4%. 0.7%. This morning we've been getting PMI reports from around the world, and mostly they've been decent with the exception of France's, which was horrible. Today in the US we get unemployment data, construction numbers, and the US ISM report. FREE AppDownload
Germany continues to be Germany. While its neighbor France falls out of bed, the manufacturing sector in Germany continues to be ridiculously hot. The index surged from 52.4 to 54.3. Manufacturing production levels saw their sharpest rise since May 2011. Here's the summary of the report from Markit: Markit FREE AppDownload
There's a widespread belief that the French economy is fundamentally flawed due to some combination of taxes and regulations. The news today advances the argument that something has seriously gone wrong. Today is PMI day, and we've been getting manufacturing reports from around the world. Mostly they've been okay. The Spanish and Italian manufacturing numbers were quite solid actually. And the German manufacturing numbers were awesome. But according to Markit, the French manufacturing sector has hit a 7-month low, dropping from 48.4 in November to 47.0 in December. Scores below 50 indicates contraction. You can just see on the chart how sickly the sector is. Markit Here's the full table of Eurozone PMI reports that shows just how awful the French number really is. Markit FREE AppDownload
Here's a very nice number out of Italy. The manufacturing PMI report for January shows a bump up from 51.1 to 53.4. Growth in output was its fastest in nearly 3 years. Here's the quick stub summary via Markit: Markit FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TV2013 was an incredible year for stocks. One of the best in history. According to Jefferies strategist David Zervos, you can expect more good times in 2014. For years, David Zervos' big calls have had a certain rhyming theme. For awhile it was "Spoos and 2s" which means long equities and long 2-year bonds on a bet that the Fed would keep rates ultra-low and that 2-year bonds would represent a good hedge. Then it was "Spoos and Blues" which represented a long Eurodollar bet, which was again a bet against Fed easing. And now the most bullish turn of all:  For the last 4 years the Fed has opened up the monetary spigots each time there was a threat to the recovery. And while the markets never fully trusted the Fed’s actions between 2010 and 2012, this year it finally became clear to even the most hardened of haters how powerful the forces of QE really are. In 2013 the risk asset dips became shallower, and the short covering rallies became more fierce. During the Cyprus crisis and the fiscal crisis the risk asset markets could barely pull back. Do we really need the headache of a back month euro dollar hedge for a risk asset long in a world where the Fed is tapering and eventually signaling higher rates? Nope! We ALL now know they have our backs on the downside - even the haters know it! – And we ALL also know that if there is marked improvement in the economy, fixed income is going to detonate! No one has your back if you own a 10yr note or EDZ6 in an accelerating recovery. It’s time to dispense with the 2s, duu’s, blues and chartreuse. They were all wonderful crutches as the market learned about the FOMC reaction function. We surely needed them in the spring of 2010, the summer of 2011 and the summer of 2012. This year however, while they didn’t cost us much, they were basically an annoyance during the very modest summertime risk asset dip. It’s time to go fully risk on and dump the hedge!! And what better way to play for a Fed induced liquidity blow-off bubble top than with one of the original bubble babies of the past – QQQ’s. We are still a long way from the peaks of 13 years ago!! It’s finally time for “Spoos and Q’s”. The QQQs is the NASDAQ 100 ETF, representing a lot of the big tech that dominates the NASDAQ. Zervos is no longer hedging. He's saying to turbocharge your portfolio with the heart of the old bubble. BOOM. For more David Zervos, check out Markit Hub &gt; FREE AppDownload
The January PMI report for Spain is out, and the it shows that the manufacturing economy has returned to growth. The index jumped from 49.8 in December to 50.8 in January, signaling expansion in the industry. Via Markit, here's the fast summary. Markit FREE AppDownload
