FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
FinVizCopper instantly reacts to the earthquake.A massive 8.0 earthquake just struck off the shore of Chile, and a tsunami warning has been issued. One of the first markets to react was the commodities market with copper prices ticking higher. It was a modest $0.02 jump, but it was a clear and noticeable jump. Why did this happen? Chile is the largest producer of the world's copper. Check out the pink block in the chart below from Morgan Stanley. For some context, here's Morgan Stanley's Adam Longson on the current state of the copper supply: An acute global copper scrap shortage that ultimately cannibalized the refined market in China was the key driver behind lower-than-expected supply growth in 2H13. We expect this phenomenon to spill into 2014. Meanwhile, this year has already seen an extended strike at most of Chile’s key copper exporting ports which, according to Codelco, affected at least 20Kt of copper shipments. All of this is a big deal because copper is arguably the most important industrial metal in the world. Morgan Stanley FREE AppDownload
YouTubeCliff AsnessMichael Lewis' new book "Flash Boys" has a lot of people freaked out about high-frequency trading. It actually has some people convinced that the stock market is somehow rigged in an unfavorable way for investors. However, this is terribly confusing for most investors who appreciate the fact that trading commissions have never been lower, market liquidity has never been better, bid-ask spreads have never been tighter, and stock prices have never been higher. Cliff Asness of AQR Capital Management is one of the smartest and most articulate hedge fund managers on Wall Street. In a new op-ed for the Wall Street Journal, he writes that he believes high-frequency trading has contributed to what makes the markets great for most investors: How do we feel about high-frequency trading? We think it helps us. It seems to have reduced our costs and may enable us to manage more investment dollars. We can’t be 100% sure. Maybe something other than HFT is responsible for the reduction in costs we’ve seen since HFT has risen to prominence, like maybe even our own efforts to improve. But we devote a lot of effort to understanding our trading costs, and our opinion, derived through quantitative and qualitative analysis, is that on the whole high-frequency traders have lowered costs. Much of what HFTs do is “make markets”—that is, be willing to buy or sell stock anytime for the cost of a fraction of the bid-offer spread. They make money selling at the offer and buying at the bid more often than they have to do it the other way around. That is, they do it the same way that market makers have done it since they were making markets in Pompeii before Mount Vesuvius halted trading one day. High-frequency traders tend to do it best because their computers are much cheaper than expensive Wall Street traders, and competition forces them to pass most of the savings on to us investors. That also explains why many old-school Wall Street traders hate them. Indeed, the folks losing business to the high-frequency traders are surely upset. But this largely bypasses and mostly benefits most investors. So, why are we even having this conversation? Here's Asness: ...Again, look to interests. Making mountains out of molehills sells more books than a study of molehills. But some traditional asset managers are also HFT critics. These managers are institutional investors like us but with different investment strategies and trading methods. Rather than embracing electronic markets, these managers have stuck with their old methods. They think HFT costs them money. Often when they try to trade large orders quickly, they find the trades more difficult to execute in a market that has gravitated toward more frequent trades in smaller sizes, and that the price moves away from them faster now. So, it's largely a class of professional money managers and anyone benefiting from sales of "Flash Boys" who want people to get angry about all of this. "The biggest concern we have with modern markets is their complexity and the associated operational risks," wrote Asness. "The market structure that enables the HFTs and provides us with their benefits may also be one that risks technological calamity." Unfortunately, a smart discussion about operational risks doesn't sell books quite like going on "60 Minutes" and telling mom-and-pop that their stock market is rigged. Asness' full op-ed is a must-read for anyone interested in the topic. Read it at WSJ.com. FREE AppDownload
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Investors pulled another $3.1 billion from Pimco's flagship fund in March, the 11th straight month of outflows from the world's largest bond fund, and its performance on the month lagged 95 percent of its peers due to a spate of wrong calls by long-time manager Bill Gross. The latest statistics for the Pimco Total Return Fund, released Tuesday by Morningstar, increase the risk that more money could flee the fund managed by Gross, whose shop has been rattled by a management shakeup and disappointing performance. So far this year, it has generated a total return of 1.29 percent, lagging its performance benchmark by 0.55 percentage point and trailing the returns of 85 percent of its peers. In all, investors have pulled $52.1 billion out of the fund since last May, according to Morningstar data. The latest outflows from the fund reduced the portfolio's assets to $232 billion. Gross, co-founder of Newport Beach, California-based Pimco and dubbed as the market's "Bond King," has been dealing with a public falling-out with former heir-apparent Mohamed El-Erian, who shared the co-chief investment officer title. Several U.S. institutional investors, including retirement systems, said they are closely monitoring the developments at Pimco and have formally put Pimco on "watch lists," a signal that they will keep a much closer eye on its performance than usual. "In short, underperformance the past 12 months coupled with the leadership changes have led to investor concerns," said Todd Rosenbluth, director of mutual fund research at S&amp;P Capital IQ. The North Dakota State Investment Board, which has about $400 million invested with Pimco, put the fund on its watch list on February 28. The California Public Employees' Retirement System, the largest U.S. pension fund, said it had not placed Pimco on a formal watch list, but it was also paying close attention to developments. FUND BEGAN STRUGGLING IN FEB Morningstar senior analyst Eric Jacobson said what hurt Pimco Total Return's performance most in March was its significant overweight position in shorter debt and its underweight position in long-dated bonds. The Barclays U.S. Treasury 20+ year Index posted returns of 0.79 percent in March alone, while the Barclays U.S. Treasury 5-7 year Index returned -0.82 percent for the same period. "Having such short-term exposure has hurt the fund's performance relative to its peers," Rosenbluth said. The Total Return Fund had an effective duration of 4.71 years at the end of February, according to data on the Pimco website. Duration is a measure of a bond's price sensitivity to yield changes. The Pimco Total Return Exchange-Traded Fund, an actively managed exchange-traded fund designed to mimic the strategy of the flagship mutual fund, was up 0.084 percent in March but posted outflows of $53.4 million. That marked the 11th straight month of withdrawals from the ETF, which has $3.4 billion in assets, according to Morningstar data. Rosenbluth said the ETF's performance in March benefited from having less exposure to mortgage-backed securities and more exposure to investment-grade corporate bonds. The Barclays U.S. MBS Index fell 0.32 percent last month, while the Barclays U.S. Corporate Investment Grade Bond Index rose 0.07 percent. Pimco's flagship mutual fund had a 29 percent exposure to mortgages at the end of February, while the ETF had a lower exposure to mortgages at 25 percent and a higher exposure to U.S. credit at 11 percent, according to Pimco's website. Jacobson said the Pimco Total Return portfolio began struggling in February as the fund was "very underweight U.S. investment-grade corporate bonds. That would have been a detriment given that the overall investment-grade corporate index returned 104 basis points for February, and returns were better the farther down you went in quality." Pimco spokesman Mark Porterfield said: "It's important to compare a fund's performance with its benchmark and not just with other mutual funds, which could hold riskier and higher-yielding assets. Total Return has outperformed its index for the past six months, two, five and 10 years." The Pimco Total Return Fund's five-year and 10-year annualized returns of 6.87 percent and 5.89 percent have outperformed the benchmark Barclays U.S. Aggregate Bond Index by 2.07 percentage points and 1.42 percentage points, respectively, according to Morningstar data, as of March 31. Pimco, a unit of European financial services company Allianz SE, had $1.91 trillion in assets under management as of December 31. (Reporting by Jennifer Ablan and Sam Forgione; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama, Jeffrey Benkoe, Paul Simao and Lisa Shumaker) FREE AppDownload
The strategic shift "Microsoft is focused on delivering the cloud for everyone, on every device. It's a unique approach that centers on people -- enabling the devices you love, work with the services you love, and in a way that works for IT and developers," said Microsoft's new CEO Satya Nadella in a press release detailing Office for iPad last week. The new CEO's tone is receiving a warm welcome from investors. The stock is up 2% since the announcement. With Office for iPad, the company demonstrated how serious it is about this new strategy. Office for iPad apps have a familiar look and feel that are unmistakably Office but are built from the ground up for iPad, factoring in the unique nature of touch and functionality native to iPad along with what people most commonly want to do on a tablet. Microsoft looks poised to do whatever it takes to bring its software to customers in a way that is convenient for them. In fact, Microsoft is even paying Apple a 30% cut of all $100 Office 365 subscriptions made within the Office apps. Despite Apple getting a 30% cut, purchases made within the app will give users access to the Office suite on up to five tablets and five mobile devices by any compatible manufacturer. Of course, Apple won't get a cut of 365 subscriptions that are made outside of the app. Why a new way of doing business was necessary Why did former Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer refuse to release a version of Office for the iPad? While the initial reason may have been a sincere concern for the iPad's potential as a productivity-worthy device, subsequent updates to the iPad have made the tablet more than powerful enough. So, why has Microsoft persisted so stubbornly? It's likely Microsoft was simply attempting to use Office as a selling point for its Surface tablet. Further, offering Office for iOS would aid a competing operating system to Windows -- Ballmer's greatest love. But given the Surface's disappointing traction in the market and the iPad's continued dominance among tablets, protecting Windows and Microsoft-branded hardware isn't a shareholder friendly strategy anymore. Accepting reality, Nadella is appropriately embracing a multi-platform focus that brings its best products and services to customers, no matter where they are. Investors should be happy with the new strategy. Clearly showing that the company will now do whatever it takes to put the customer first, even if that means tearing down the walls it thought were protecting Windows, Microsoft is positioning its formidable cloud products and services for success. With Microsoft's addressable market expanding, business growth seems more likely today than it did in the guarded days of Ballmer. Are you ready to profit from this $14.4 trillion revolution?Let's face it, every investor wants to get in on revolutionary ideas before they hit it big. Like buying PC-maker Dell in the late 1980s, before the consumer computing boom. Or purchasing stock in e-commerce pioneer Amazon.com in the late 1990s, when it was nothing more than an upstart online bookstore. The problem is, most investors don't understand the key to investing in hyper-growth markets. The real trick is to find a small-cap "pure-play" and then watch as it grows in explosive lockstep with its industry. Our expert team of equity analysts has identified one stock that's poised to produce rocket-ship returns with the next $14.4 trillion industry. Click here to get the full story in this eye-opening report. Daniel Sparks owns shares of Apple. The Motley Fool recommends Apple. The Motley Fool owns shares of Apple and Microsoft. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days. We Fools may not all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. FREE AppDownload
The valuation of the stock market has risen sharply over the past year as investors have anticipated a better environment for growth. To gain perspective on whether a bubble has developed, we can compare the price-to-earnings ratios (PEs) of all 62 of the industries of the S&amp;P 500 Index today to the same day 14 years ago in March 2000, at the top of the bull market—the last time a bubble in stock market valuation popped. The stock market was really “bubbly” in March 2000, with valuations of many industries floating higher, but now industry valuations are relatively flat. Fourteen years ago a bull market came to an end, and 16 of the 62 S&amp;P 500 industries, accounting for about 70% of the S&amp;P 500 companies’ total market value, had PEs that could be called “bubbly”—PEs of over 30 on companies’ current fiscal year earnings estimates. Now, on March 28, 2014, just four industries out of 62—accounting for less than 4% of the S&amp;P 500 market value—have PEs over 30. At any given time, there are always some bubbly valuations among industries and stocks that are hot. But overall, the S&amp;P 500 PE is currently a bit over 16 on current fiscal year estimates, slightly above the long-term average, but only half of what it was in late March 2000. Looking at valuations, compared to 14 years ago, the party in the stock market may not be just getting started — but it is not yet close to being over. Of course, factors other than a valuation bubble could contribute to a bear market. After all, we saw a major bear market in 2008 and early 2009, without the market hitting 2000-like valuations. This was because markets had priced in an outlook for a much better economic environment than the financial crisis and deep recession that actually took place. In last week’s Weekly Market Commentary: LPL FinancialWhat’s Priced In? we looked at the economic outlook the markets are pricing in. While the markets are optimistic that growth may improve, they do not appear to be pricing in an overly optimistic outlook. But what about consumer confidence; is the jump in March to a six-year high a sign of too much optimism? Not even close. The index is at 92, the best in six years, but well below the 100 it averaged in 2005–2007, and a far cry from the 140 averaged in 1998–2000, when the party was really heating up and valuations became “bubbly” across most of the stock market. Although valuation may not be a negative for the overall stock market, it is no longer a positive. Valuation was a key factor behind the attractiveness of stocks a year ago; this is less the case now after strong gains over the past year have pushed up PEs. We expect earnings growth to be the primary driver of stock market performance in 2014. While market pullbacks—or market storms as we have taken to calling them — are likely this year, we do not believe valuations are high enough to result in a long painful hangover in the form of a bear market. Instead, we continue to foresee a potentially solid year for stock market performance. This article originally appeared at LPL Financial.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Ben Fredericson (xjrlokix) / FlickrFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. We're In No Man's Land And This Is What Investors Should Expect (Gluskin Sheff)  David Rosenberg writes that as long as the U.S. economy doesn't reverse or we don't have outright deflation, the Fed's monthly asset purchase program should end in another 10 months, and by next summer it should begin on "the long path of normalizing rates." "We are in no-man's land when we embark on a long phase of being on hold in terms of steady monetary policy ahead of the eventual rate hikes," he writes. So, what do we typically see in this investing time frame. 1. "The average gain in the S&amp;P 50 is 6%. Median advance was 1.5%. Small price appreciation but the market doesn't shift course — just the slope of the line changes."2. "Technology, industrials, consumer discretionary, and materials all outperform — the cyclicals. Energy is close to being a market performer."3. "But the rate-sensitives and defensives lag - utilities, consumer staples, telecom and healthcare."4. "Of the rate-oriented sectors, financials are typically the best performer but still lag the overall market."5. "Baa corporate bond spreads tend to tighten to 20 basis points so credit arbitrage strategies have a history of being a more appropriate fixed-income strategy than being naked long the Treasury market." Regular Speed Investors Have Bigger Concerns Than A Rigged Stock Market (Barron's)  Speaking on "60 Minutes," Michael Lewis said "the stock market is rigged," but that doesn't mean that investors should get "too caught up in the supposed disadvantages of operating in a so-called rigged market," writes John Kimelman at Barron's. "For such investors, the biggest concerns right now are not the time advantages possessed by front-running quants but rather the more everyday issues related to valuations, interest rates, and earnings growth." Advisors Need To Consider These Key Things When Working With Expat Clients (The Wall Street Journal)  Working with expatriate clients can be tricky and advisors need to get them to focus on issues that are in their control but that they ignore, like estate planning and income tax compliance, writes Bryan Hancock of Timberchase Financial in a new WSJ column. "If I'm an American married to a citizen of another country and we have assets in two or three countries, I have a very complex situation," he writes. "I may have created a situation where my heirs are going to have a difficult time collecting all of my assets. It's important to have estate planning documents in both countries that agree with each other." He says advisors need to be just as mindful of tax returns and that clients should have emergency repatriation plans in place.   The Most Bizarre Tax Deductions You've Heard Of (WealthManagement.com) Meisa Bonelli, president of Millennial Ventures and managing partner of Millennial Tax highlights five of the strangest tax deductions in a new WealthManagement.com piece. 1. Just like roofers can deduct the price of their tools, exotic dancers can deduct the price of their lingerie as long as what they're doing isn't illegal. 2. A New York CPA got a writeoff on $10,000 for having air conditioning since he had a "doctor’s note stating his profuse sweating was a health hazard due to the constant loss of fluids and threat of dehydration."3. "Professional blood donor Margaret Green set a precedent for a special diet to be allowed as a legitimate IRS deductible expense."4. Making bail can be tax deductible if its done during the week when you're out with colleagues. Though, Bonelli warns that one business owner's bail was not deductible "because justifiable penalties for wrongdoing are not tax deductible." Retail Investors Are Gobbling Up The Platinum Coin Market (Reuters) U.S. retail investors are buying up the government's new platinum coins, reports Frank Tang at Reuters. In the first three weeks, the U.S. Mint sold about 10,000 ounces of the America Eagle platinum coins. This is said to be driven by pent-up demand and concerns about South African supply. "The outright platinum market has actually been performing better than gold and silver, and that has helped attract some investors to the physical platinum market," Roy Friedman, executive vice president at Dillon Gage told Reuters. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsA catalytic converterBelow is an interview with Frank Holmes, chief investment officer at U.S. Global Investors. This Q&amp;A went out to subscribers of our "10 Things You Need To Know Before The Opening Bell" newsletter on Tuesday morning. Sign up here to get the newsletter and more of these interviews in your inbox every day. BUSINESS INSIDER: What is the most underreported commodities story at the moment? FRANK HOLMES: In my opinion, palladium and platinum are the solutions to the pollution, and are also two of the most underreported commodities stories at the moment. I will focus on palladium today. The long-term demand needs for palladium are enormous. The commodity is used primarily for catalytic converters in automobiles to aid in clean air emission, but can also be found in electronics, various other clean air and water systems, jewelry, chemicals and even dentistry.  Russia is the world’s top producer of palladium, supplying over 40 percent. As we’ve witnessed commotion in the current political landscape in Russia evolving, it’s evident that the supply of palladium can easily be disrupted. Over the past year the precious metal has mainly traded sideways, but the global events involving Russia have pushed the price higher in addition to global PMIs rising, which is highly correlated to demand and global industrial growth.  Yet another reason pointing to the significance of the palladium story can be seen in China. Vehicle sales in China rose faster than expected last year, and the country recently switched to U.S. standards for air pollution. In automobiles, palladium and platinum are the solution to the pollution. These metals are primary components used in catalytic converters, which emit less toxic exhaust into the air. There are many supply and demand factors which make the palladium story one worth telling.  BI: Will gold ever recover to the levels it was at in the couple of years after the crisis? FH: Looking forward over the next few years, I think it’s possible for gold to recover to the $1,900 level that we saw previously. On a long-term basis, say five years, I think gold can surpass that level. You must put the crisis into context however, to better understand it. What took gold to $1,900 was a combination of two factors: the Love Trade and the Fear Trade. The Fear Trade involved the S&amp;P downgrading the dollar, Obama battling Congress over the debt ceiling and the potential shut down of the government, and Chavez having his gold physically shipped to Venezuela.  The Love Trade involved the Asian cultural affinity for gold. Gold has a significant, consistent pattern that is aligned with religious and celebratory events that are dominated by Asia, India and the Middle East.  Look at the historical, seasonal price pattern going back 30 years, and align that with the corresponding visual that shows the various cultural holidays. These celebrations begin with Ramadan and peak with Chinese New Year. I see many opportunities for gold looking forward. The Singapore exchange is looking to start a gold trading market that allows for physical delivery into the island nation. Also, in 2013 demand out of Indonesia, Thailand and Vietnam totaled 300 tonnes, a 42 percent increase since 2012. Year-to-date China has taken physical delivery of 200 tonnes of gold.  We are still witnessing mind-boggling consumption of physical gold, and you can see below that gold demand remains robust in China. When comparing total gold traded to gold delivered on the COMEX and the Shanghai Gold Exchange, it is a striking comparison. While gold trading volume is greater on the COMEX, physical delivery of the metal on the Shanghai Gold Exchange is 200 tonnes more than the COMEX.  BI: How long can the American shale boom last? FH: I believe that as long as government policies don’t try to stifle the shale activity in the United States, this boom can continue for a while. What investors should realize though is that the depletion of these wells is rapid. For a simple illustration think of it this way; a discovery now producing 1,000 barrels per day can quickly change to 100 barrels per day just one year from discovery. This is why there is a need for continued exploration and pipeline infrastructure spending, which is fueling MLPs. If we have both of these factors, then we will see the wheels of job creation continue to turn, along with America’s freedom from OPEC nations. BI: What kinds of investment allocations are now called for as China slows down? FH: Right now, this is how I like to see a portfolio weighted: 25% in safe, ultra-short, high-quality investments, 25% in resources that produce income and have exceptional growth, and 50% in great American companies – those that have classic, GARP-style stocks with modest dividend growth. Rebalance annually, with gold holdings as part of the 25% allocation to resources. When looking at allocation based on the slowdown in China, I remind investors to revisit global PMI (purchasing manufacturer’s index) numbers. The global PMI is important and a potential director of commodities. Our internal research suggests a high probability of oil, copper, etc. rising over the subsequent months when the one-month remains above the three-month. The trend is your friend! What really makes commodities rock across the board is when the PMIs of China, Europe and America are synchronized and rising. We saw this as a major force in 2006. If you put the slowdown in China in context, you can adapt. For example, China recently removed its 1-child policy, allowing for a new 2-child policy. China did this because they do not want to end up like Japan, a country with an aging population and no new growth. Despite an economic slowdown, there continues to be positive demographics and new focus on areas such as technology. For our China fund, we try to capture these long-term positive trends, along with the strong growth sectors such as gaming technology and health care. China has changed dramatically over the years, but every mother in China and around the globe wants the same thing that we do in America—the best education, health care and the opportunity to succeed.  Every baby born in American born will need 3 million pounds of minerals, metals and fuels in their lifetime alone. Just imagine the necessity and importance of resources globally as the population of China grows and begins to catch up economically. This is a long-term, super-secular cycle. What took centuries for the world’s population to grow by a billion people now explodes in decades. Finally, the world is super-connected with cell phones, iPads, Androids, Facebook, Twitter and the emerging countries want to enjoy the American dream because they can see it. And because of this, they believe it. BI: How do you feel about Bitcoin? FH: I think that Bitcoin is an interesting concept. Do I necessarily believe in it, and do I use it? No – but it is an interesting concept that’s in its early stages and comes with lots of risks.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jason ReedA member of the audience takes a picture as Janet Yellen, President Barack Obama's nominee to lead the U.S. Federal Reserve, prepares to testify at her U.S. Senate Banking Committee confirmation hearing in Washington, November 14, 2013. Like many bank analysts who covered U.S. monetary policy in the early days of Alan Greenspan, Dana Saporta logged her fair share of late nights at the office. She stayed after hours to pore over the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet and map out the bank’s possible moves as best she could. It was a truly laborious task at the time, in part because the Fed gave no scheduled press briefings or statements and “guidance” regarding its future intentions was nonexistent. Outright secrecy was the chosen policy for central bankers, which made following the bank quite a challenge. “We were trying to determine the stance of monetary policy, because we were never told what it was,” says Saporta, currently a director of U.S. economics research at Credit Suisse. That all changed in February 1994, when former chairman Greenspan’s board issued its first-ever statement. A terse, three-paragraph memo informed the market that the Fed had just tightened for the first time in five years. While miniscule compared with today’s lengthy statements, the central bank had nevertheless fired the starting gun for the era of transparency. “Fed-watching as a profession was dead,” says Saporta. “After that, there was much less appetite for that type of work because the Fed would just tell us when there was a change in policy.” Fast-forward two decades and that appetite is back. Today, the Fed’s communication isn’t lacking—it’s just verbose and confusing. To be fair, economic and market conditions are complicated in a post-recession world, as are the tools policymakers are using to navigate it. But lately, the more the Fed tries to explain itself, the more elusive a consensus on its intentions seems to be. To hammer home the point, Credit Suisse recently created a graph showing that as the years have passed and the Fed’s total assets grown, Fed verbiage has increased right along with them. The average number of words used in policy statements has risen fourfold in just six years—from less than 200 in 2008 to over 800 this year. In a report entitled “Revamping the Policy Kluge,” Saporta labels the unwieldy statements a “kluge,” or “an ill-assorted collection of parts assembled to fulfill a particular purpose.” Just as she does on Fed policy itself, newly appointed Fed Chairwoman Janet Yellen has the opportunity to change course on its communication inflation if she so chooses. And in theory, there’s no better person for the job. In her previous position as Vice Chair at the Fed, Yellen oversaw the communications subcommittee, where she spearheaded former chairman Ben Bernanke’s vision of greater transparency. On her watch, the bank started holding post-meeting press conferences, giving forecasts of the likely timing of future policy moves, and introducing a new form of forward guidance that was tied to economic indicators such an unemployment. “A growing body of research and experience demonstrates that clear communication is itself a vital tool for increasing the efficacy and reliability of monetary policy,” Yellen said in a 2012 speech. “In fact, the challenges facing our economy in the wake of the financial crisis have made clear communication more important than ever before.” Unfortunately, Yellen’s first chance to put that transparency pledge into action herself didn’t go so well. In recent months, the Fed had become uneasy with its previously stated intentions—so-called “forward guidance”—regarding the future course of monetary policy. Policymakers had promised to keep interest rates at near-zero levels at least until the unemployment rate dipped below 6.5 percent. But in February, as the jobless rate sat at 6.7 percent, just above the threshold, the Fed’s board had nevertheless concluded was still nowhere near a hike cycle because of flat wage growth and a fragile economic recovery. This quantitative forward guidance, in other words, confused more than it elucidated. And so, after announcing a further $10 billion in tapering of the their large-asset purchases at their March 18-19 meeting, officials also did away with concrete policy-change thresholds such as the 6.5 percent unemployment rate. In determining how long to keep rates put, they said, the bank indicated in its latest policy statement that it would instead assess “a wide range of information, including measures of labor market conditions, indicators of inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and readings on financial developments.” The problem: the Fed didn’t simply modify its guidance, but also the way in which it was communicated. The policymakers’ written statement was clear enough: they carefully reassured markets that their intentions regarding an eventual rate hike hadn’t changed since previous meetings. But Yellen’s ensuing press briefing turned that painstakingly crafted message on its head. Asked how much time might elapse between the end of quantitative easing and the start of rate hikes, her answer was both imprecise and unexpected. “So, the language that we use in this statement is ‘considerable period,’” Yellen answered. “So, I – I, you know, this is the kind of term it’s hard to define. But, you know, it probably means something on the order of around six months or that type of thing.” So much for clarity and consistency. Yellen was suggesting a possible Fed hike as soon as the second quarter of next year, a full three to six months earlier than what the market had been anticipating. Yellen’s comments sent stocks and bonds falling, with the Dow dropping more than 1 percent before recovering some of its losses by the end of the trading day. “While Yellen tried to convince markets that the FOMC’s policy intentions differ little from three months earlier, she undermined her own efforts by suggesting, however tentatively, that the Fed would consider hiking rates as soon as six months after the end of quantitative easing,” Saporta wrote in a March 21 report. “This ‘six-month’ comment quickly overshadowed the FOMC’s newly worded, qualitative forward guidance.” Many analysts like Saporta assume Yellen didn’t intend her outlook to be as binding as it sounded. After all, the change in policy was about freeing the Fed from a specific unemployment milepost; it would seem preposterous to replace it with something even more specific—a date on the calendar. Still, its market and media impact have made the slip-up hard to ignore. Accordingly, Credit Suisse moved up its forecast for the first hike to the fourth quarter of 2015 from the first quarter of 2016. As for Yellen’s communication, the press conference fallout illustrates the challenges of bringing transparency to central banking. To stay safe next time, she could convey a more flexible policy stance or simply sidestep those types of questions. Or she could turn back the clock and just avoid the press altogether. But of course, there’d be no transparency in that. The Financialist is a digital magazine presented by Credit Suisse that looks at the trends and ideas that drive markets, businesses and economies. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersPlatinum bars are stacked at the safe deposit boxes room of the ProAurum gold house in MunichBy Frank Tang NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. retail investors have raced to scoop up the government's newly launched platinum coins, data shows, as industrial metals prices outperformed bullion, a long-time favorite among collectors. In the first three weeks since relaunching the American Eagle platinum coins on March 10, the U.S. Mint sold some 10,000 ounces, data showed. In March, platinum prices rose almost 1 percent, sharply outperforming gold's 3 percent fall. Sales of the Eagle platinum coins remained small compared with sales of lower-cost established products like silver coins, but the total is almost a third of the 33,000 ounces sold in 2008 before the government abandoned the product due to weak demand. Dealers said the early, brisk pace of sales reflects pent-up demand and worries about future supplies from top-producing country South Africa. Platinum held by the world's major exchange-traded funds was currently at their highest level in at least four years, Reuters data showed. &lt;GOL/ETF&gt; "The outright platinum market has actually been performing better than gold and silver, and that has helped attract some investors to the physical platinum market," Said Roy Friedman, executive vice president at Dillon Gage, a major U.S. coin wholesaler in Dallas. Investors have been piling into the platinum market on hopes that an improving global economy will boost the metal mostly consumed by the auto industry. The Mint resumed selling its platinum bullion coins on March 10, ending a four-year absence from the market. Demand for gold coins, considered a benchmark for retail appetite for bullion, sank as investors continued to liquidate stockpiles. Gold coin sales totaled just 21,000 ounces in March, its lowest in seven months and its weakest March since 2007. It is down 70 percent from a year ago. Wealthy investors continued to sell used coins, flooding the beleaguered market with secondary supplies and hurting demand for new 2014 coins. "The sales of new gold eagles have been impacted by several large institutional investors' liquidation of previous years' gold Eagles," Friedman. "Consumers and investors alike have been taking advantage of the lower-premium non-2014 coins." Investors started liquidating stocks of older-dated coins in February due in part to the sudden recovery in bullion prices. The sales were conspicuous coming early in the year, usually a time when investors load up on new gold coins. The trend fed worries that investors are cashing in stockpiles hoarded during the long rally in bullion prices that ended last year. It also undermined hopes that tensions between Russian and Ukraine may reignite demand for gold as a safe-haven investment. Last year, gold price fell $225 on April 12 and April 15, a record two-day drop that unleashed years of pent-up demand for gold coins among retail investors. However, the wave of strong retail buying faded by the second half of the 2013. U.S. coin sales tend to be highly seasonal, with the strongest performance at the start of the year as investors seek the most-recent mintage, and the fourth quarter usually being the quietest of the year. Meanwhile, sales of silver Eagles rose 60 percent year-over-year to 5.35 million ounces in March, the highest in 14 months, as dealers stocked up on inventory after the Mint had boosted its inventory. Increased supply of silver coin blanks and stronger inventory at the U.S. Mint allowed dealers to buy more silver coins in March, Friedman said. (Reporting by Frank Tang; Editing by David Gregorio) FREE AppDownload
 The unemployment rate has fallen sharply from its recessionary peak, however, a large portion of this reflects a decline in the participation rate. In fact, many pundits (including several Fed officials) are completely dismissing the drop in the traditional U3 unemployment rate as a true barometer of labour market tightness (I think that is a mistake, by the way).   The participation rate has fallen from pre-recession levels of 65% to 63% in February as record numbers of Americans have left the workforce — it hasn’t been this low since the late 1970s. The rise in the number of people leaving the labour force entirely is running about double the pace of new job creation. Over 90 million Americans now reside outside the traditional borders of the labour market. Five years ago, the number was closer to 80 million. This indeed is a mystery and a huge socio-economic phenomenon.   Interestingly, of the folks who have decided to leave the workforce — by definition are not looking for work actively — and do not want a job are down more than 10% from year-ago levels. Moreover, those who don’t want a job at all have seen a visible uptrend. It would be interesting to see how they are getting by (Uncle Jack’s generosity? The underground/barter economy? The lottery?).  While many point to the impact of discouraged workers on the falloff in the participation rate, this is not the only story currently playing out. The number of people who left the labour force and claim they did so without being discouraged is running far above historical norms. One example are people who have headed to school — accounting for 7% of the overall decrease in labour force participation over the past three years (assuming they intend on graduating with a degree, it will be sometime before they resurface into the classic job search — in other words, waiting for the participation rate to rise again and thwart the decline in the unemployment rate will be akin to waiting for Godot).  David Rosenberg The social safety net is supporting a record number of Americans. In fact, the Cato Institute published a controversial study last summer, concluding that in 39 states, those individuals astute enough to tap the myriad of government benefit programs at all levels got paid at least as much as an administrative assistant (in 11 states, as much as a school teacher)! Now not everyone is lazy, but at the margin, when governments create disincentives to work, some will choose not to. From 2010 to 2013, the data show that individuals leaving the labour force due to disability accounted for an unprecedented 28% of the overall tally — this compares to 18% who were classified as “disabled” from 2007 to 2010.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersMark Karpeles, chief executive of Mt. Gox, attends a news conference at the Tokyo District Court in TokyoBy Tom Hals (Reuters) - The chief executive of Japan's Mt. Gox, once the world's leading bitcoin exchange, was ordered to the United States to answer questions related to its U.S. bankruptcy case, filed after the company lost $400 million of customers' digital currency. U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Stacey Jernigan on Tuesday ordered Karpeles to appear on April 17 in Dallas at the offices of Baker &amp; McKenzie, the law firm that represents Mt. Gox. Mt. Gox customers want its chief executive and majority owner, Mark Karpeles, to explain why the exchange shut down in February and what happened to their 750,000 bitcoins, which the company said were stolen in a computer hacking attack. Customers have alleged that insiders including Karpeles may have stolen the money, and employees told Reuters they were worried as early as 2012 that customers' money was being diverted for operating expenses. Mt. Gox filed bankruptcy in February in Tokyo. Last month, Karpeles asked a Dallas court to grant Mt. Gox Chapter 15 bankruptcy protection, in part to put a stop to a class action that had been filed by U.S. customers in Chicago federal court. Under Chapter 15, protection from creditors is not automatic. Mt. Gox must prove at a May 20 hearing that it should be granted such protection. "If he avails himself of this court, my God, he is going to get himself over here," Jernigan said at the Bankruptcy Court hearing in Dallas at which she ordered Karpeles to appear. John Mitchell, a Baker &amp; McKenzie attorney, said the company may replace Karpeles as the "foreign representative" of Mt. Gox in the U.S. bankruptcy court, a suggestion that did not sit well with the judge. "He filed this case," she responded curtly. Karpeles' testimony could help solve the mystery of what happened to money and bitcoins that were entrusted to Mt. Gox by its clients, most of them from the United States. Karpeles controlled the company's financial records and may be the only person who knows where the company's assets and money might be, Steven Woodrow, an attorney for U.S. customers, told the Dallas hearing. Jernigan limited the deposition questioning of Karpeles to issues pertaining to whether the court should grant permanent bankruptcy protection to Mt. Gox. The case is In Re: Mt. Gox Co. Ltd, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Dallas, No. 14-31229. (Reporting by Tom Hals in Wilmington, Delaware; Editing by David Gregorio) FREE AppDownload
A Chinese travel company brought bags of air from China's Laojun Mountain to Zhengzhou in China’s Henan province, reports Te-Ping Chen at The Wall Street Journal.  Zenghzou, like many major Chinese cities has struggled with a smog problem. On Monday Zhengzhou's air quality index (AQI) was at 158. This compares to a reading of 45 in Bakersfield California, which is the most polluted city in the U.S., The WSJ reports.  Of course this isn't the first time that we've heard such reports out of China.  Chinese officials and businesses have been trying to come up with a multitude of ways to tackle China's smog problem. Officials have introduced curbs on car purchases and use in certain cities. Aviation Industry Corporation of China was testing a parafoil smog-clearing drone. A multimillionaire handed out free canned air, according to NPR.  The event was intended to promote fresh mountain air from Laojun Mountain, a tourist resort. Reuters The air was reportedly brought from 118 miles away. Reuters Curbing pollution is one of the top priorities of Chinese policymakers. Reuters FREE AppDownload
Last week's meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee caused a stir in the markets, in part because FOMC members pulled forward their forecasts on the likely path of rate hikes. The FOMC conveys this information via what is known as "the dots" — a graph that shows each member's individual forecasts plotted alongside everyone else's. The chart is not labeled with actual names, but Deutsche Bank economists Joe LaVorgna and Carl Riccadonna attempted to match names with dots. "In light of recent comments from various policymakers, we have made some adjustments to our assessment of where policymakers stand on the Fed’s “dot plot” of fed funds expectations, they write in a note to clients. "We have now moved Evans to a more dovish position compared to Rosengren, and we also swapped Yellen with Williams to reflect the renewed dovishness apparent in her latest remarks. Plosser also told us that he is the high dot for 2015. While Yellen did not specifically address her 'six months' comment from the press conference Q&amp;A, which led market participants to believe she was contemplating compressing the timeline between the end of taper and the start of rate hikes, her subsequent comments made it clear she see is in no rush to begin raising rates. Furthermore, it will take considerable improvement in an array of labor data to convince her otherwise." FRB & DB Global Markets Research FREE AppDownload
REUTERSChilean traders gesture at the Santiago Stock Exchange.It was another strong showing in the stock market. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
The IRS recently ruled that Bitcoin is property, not a "monetary instrument." And now the attorney for alleged Silk Road founder Ross Ulbricht is arguing that his client must be innocent of money laundering because Bitcoin officially isn't money, reports Wired. Silk Road was the anonymous marketplace for drugs and weaponry favored by the internet's Bitcoin black market. Attorney Joshua Dratel wrote a memo calling for a dismissal of some charges against Ulbricht, stating that "both IRS and FinCEN have categorically declared that Bitcoins are not 'funds.' Thus, an essential element of §1956 — a 'financial transaction' — is absent because a necessary component thereof — either 'funds' or 'monetary instruments' — is lacking. Consequently, it is respectfully submitted that Count Four must be dismissed." Ulbricht was indicted in both New York and Maryland, and these potential dismissals would only slightly alleviate Ulbricht's legal situation as they only apply in New York. Even if they were dropped, there's still one narcotics conspiracy charge, one count of running a criminal enterprise, and one count of conspiracy to commit computer hacking. Dratel is moving for these to be dismissed as well, citing them as "unconstitutionally vague." FREE AppDownload
Over the last few months, one of the big questions has been how much the rough weather has been hurting the economy and how much of a snapback we sould see once the spring arrived. We may have just gotten our answer. Car sales line up very nicely, typically, with jobs and other economic indicators. And they just crushed it. All the big automakers beat expectations. As Calculated Risk notes, March vehicle sales just hit their highest levels since March 2007. Calculated Risk Bottom line: Now that things are thawing out, the snapback is looking pretty big. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsThe big automakers are announcing their March auto sales stats. And so far, the numbers look good. Chrysler announced that its vehicle sales climbed by 13% in March, beating expectations for 10% growth. Ford sales climbed by 3.3%, beating expectations for 1.1%. GM, which announced its results after a long delay, saw sales increase by 4.1% in. Expectations for a 0.8% gain. For the month, analysts estimate that the pace of auto sales climbed to an annualized pace of 15.8 million units, up from 15.2 million in February. Here's our running tally of the automakers that have reported: "Frigid temperatures kept many would-be shoppers away from dealer lots through the winter," said Bank of America Merrill Lynch economists. "But with the winter freeze thawing in March, auto sales probably picked up... Attractive discounts likely helped move cars out of dealer showrooms, while pent-up demand after a multi-month lull in sales also provided a boost." FREE AppDownload
GM has hired Kenneth Feinberg to help navigate its recall of millions of cars.General Motors has hired Kenneth Feinberg, the lawyer who helped navigate victim compensation issues in the wake of the September 11 attacks, the BP Deepwater Horizon oil disaster, and the Boston Marathon bombings, to help the automaker navigate the recall of more than 2.6 million cars. GM CEO Mary Barra announced the news during testimony before the House Energy and Commerce Committee's Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee. In a press release, GM said Feinberg will work "as a consultant to explore and evaluate options in its response to families of accident victims whose vehicles are being recalled for possible ignition switch defects." In testimony, Barra said GM will have its first meeting with Feinberg on Friday, and it will take 30 to 60 days before any decisions are made.  The recall includes seven GM models made between 2003 and 2011, which may have faulty ignition switches that can flip out of the “run” position while the car is moving, turning off the engine, cutting some electric power, and disabling the airbags. Crashes caused by the defect have been connected to 13 deaths. FREE AppDownload
Columbia UniversityThe Castello Plan, New Amsterdam, 1660. A few months ago I published a history of how private English entrepreneurs were America's first settlers. But their businesses basically failed, and it took wealthy religious separatists to get English America off the ground.  There was more to the story of America's entrepreneurial roots. A couple of hundred miles south of New England, the Dutch West India Company — the sister firm of the world's first publicly traded private firm, the Dutch East India Company — had founded the colony of New Netherland. The best, most recent history of the period, "The Island at the Center of the World" by Russell Shorto, was published in 2004. Here are 11 amazing things I learned. ************ Hudson had been fired from the English Muscovy Company for failing to find a Northwest Passage to Asia. It was a chance meeting with a representative of what would become the Dutch West India Company that changed his life. He was recruited to continue his search; this time he navigated his way down what he called (and what is still called by some) the North River.  Hudson would ultimately come to meet a grisly fate, as he refused to give up on his quest for a Northwest Passage. His freezing crew marooned him and his son in modern Hudson Bay. If you look at contemporary maps, you'll see the area was labeled New Belgium. That's, in part, because the earliest Dutch settlers, including the Dutch West India Company's third governor, Peter Minuit, were largely of Walloon extraction.  Google Images Minuit was the Dutch West India Company's third New Netherland governor. He purchased Manhattan from a local Lenape Indian tribe for the modern-day equivalent of about $700. Shorto says the Indians were not swindled but rather expected the Dutch to enter into a military and economic alliance with them. For several years, at least, that was largely true. It was at the corner of Pearl Street and Coenties Slip downtown. It was long ago torn down, but there's a historical marker there. Here's what it looked like: TheBoweryBoys  It was built by slaves in 1653 to keep out the English. Here's a pic: Columbia UniversityThe Castello Plan, New Amsterdam, 1660.   Eighty-thousand beaver pelts per year passed through Manhattan. "Traders in New Amsterdam, with their ties to the world's greatest trading power, were among the most sophisticated on earth," Shorto says.   New York's longest-serving governor had lost a leg to cannon shot fighting the Spanish near South America. He'd previously been in charge of Curacao when The Company promoted him to run New Netherland. He ultimately comes off as a sympathetic figure, though his citizens started a quasi-uprising against him. But he loved New Amsterdam and had to be haggled by his own citizens into surrendering to the English. Here's a famous painting of the act: Google Images"The Fall of New Amsterdam" by Jean Leon Gerome Ferris, 1931.   New Amsterdam was dealt a severe setback when governor William Kieft decided to take revenge for the murder of one of his citizens by massacring an entire Indian settlement in New Jersey. That basically put all the surrounding tribes on a permanent war footing with New Amsterdam's leaders.   Adriaen van der Donck was a lawyer by training and was called "The Jonkheer" by his fellow citizens as a sign of respect, and this is where we get the town Yonkers. Van der Donck sailed to Amsterdam to try to fight for New Amsterdam's freedom from the Dutch West India Company, and for his efforts was temporarily imprisoned by Dutch authorities. He was released but banned from serving office for life. Soon after moving back, he was massacred at his home on the site of the modern Van Cortlandt Park. Google ImagesAdriaen van der Donck Shorto makes the case that New Amsterdamers were the first to have a true sense of their American identity and that this fueled Van der Donck's mission. The British navy was in its ascendancy, and the Dutch had provoked its ire by massacring English colonists in far-off (modern) New Guinea. This helped lead to two wars. And England's ambassador to the Netherlands, George Downing, was probably the most important diplomat of all time, having negotiated the Dutch out of several key American colonies as well as launching the slave trade. The Dutch West India Company went belly up.    FREE AppDownload
AP Rep. Paul Ryan, the chair of the House Budget Committee, released the fiscal-year 2015 House Budget proposal on Tuesday, a largely political document that will help shape the partisan debate ahead of the 2014 midterm elections.  As with some of his past budget proposals, Ryan will have trouble explaining the details and the means that get to the end — a balanced budget. This year, the consensus on the most implausible parts of his plan comes on two fronts. The first are the levels at which non-defense discretionary spending is set in the budget. Discretionary spending is comprised of spending on programs that have to be reauthorized by Congress every year, not including entitlement programs like Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid.  The second is an accounting trick that is likely to be controversial, and that some call a gimmick. The last year of the budget window, 2024, gives a good example of what Ryan does to balance the budget: The non-defense discretionary spending levels, especially in the last year, seem to be the most implausible part of the budget. In 2024, per the budget, the non-defense discretionary spending levels would be $467 billion — a 22 percent cut from post-sequester levels. In raw dollars, that's lower than it was in 2005. It's also much lower than the 2013 level of $576 billion. Loren Adler, a research director at the at Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget, told Business Insider it would "certainly be one of the toughest pieces to feasibly achieve." In inflation-adjusted terms, it amounts to about a 29 percent cut from current levels. According to a Senate Democratic aide, it's also 28 percent below the average amount of the non-defense discretionary spending levels during the Bush administration. By 2024, the Ryan budget adds $483 billion to defense spending beyond sequester-set spending caps. But to get overall savings, the budget cuts $791 billion from non-defense discretionary spending. "NDD levels by end of budget window totally implausible — damage to safety net as well," Jared Bernstein, a former Obama administration economist and now a senior fellow at the left-leaning Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, said in an email.  Ryan also uses the accounting trick to achieve balance. It's a method he hasn't employed in past budgets, and one that usually isn't used by the Congressional Budget Office when scoring legislation. Ryan says the "macroeconomic feedback effect" of the deficit-cutting provisions in his budget will amount to $175 billion in savings over the 10-year budget window. And about $74 billion of that will come in the last year — coincidentally providing the U.S. with a $5 billion surplus. Here's Ryan's reasoning for doing so: The Congressional Budget Office has estimated several times over nearly 20 years that congressional action to reduce deficits will ultimately result in lower interest rates and faster economic growth by freeing up savings for use in productive investment. In addition, CBO has estimated that the positive economic effects of deficit reduction will feed back into the budget and further reduce deficits and debt over the medium and longer term. Ryan notes the CBO used such dynamic scoring, for example, in 1998, when analyzing the 1998 bipartisan budget resolution that planned to balance the budget. But in general, the CBO says it does not usually analyze the macroeconomic effects due to several reasons (emphasis added): Doing macroeconomic analysis of all proposed legislation would not be feasible; nearly all legislation analyzed by CBO would have negligible macroeconomic effects anyway (and thus negligible feedback to the federal budget); and estimates of macroeconomic effects are highly uncertain. In his budget last year, Ryan included guidance about the macroeconomic effects to argue how his budget would be even better for deficits than the numbers showed. However, he did not employ the scoring method to achieve a balanced budget. FREE AppDownload
It's not here yet, but you can almost taste it. The sun is on your face, there's a drink in your hand, and when you look down you see an entire glorious city below. The people in it are ants and you ... you are a KING. This, ladies and gentlemen, is New York City rooftop season. And Viceroy New York, a hotel that recently opened on West 57th Street, has come into the ring as a heavyweight. That means a fresh, simple menu, carefully constructed cocktails, and this view. We'll give you a moment. ViceroyThe view from the Viceroy Hotel, MidtownGood. The Viceroy is located right in the heart of hedge fund land, and the Masters of the Universe have already started reserving the space for private parties. But that doesn't mean the rest of us can't enjoy the breathtaking view. In fact, we're all invited according to Scott Gerber. He's the CEO of Gerber Group, a company whose glorious purpose is to turn hotel restaurants and bars into places everyone — not just guests — wants to be. That means no velvet ropes, no stuffy dress code. "I don't want to be the coolest kid on the block for two years," Gerber told Business Insider. "I'm very much into thanking you for spending your money." Gerber has learned exactly how to say "thank you" over 20 years of experience turning the restaurants and bars inside hotels into destinations. He started out working for Ian Schrager, the legendary proprietor of Studio 54 in 1991. When Schrager needed someone to run The Whiskey at the Paramount Hotel, he asked Gerber. Then came the partnership with Starwood Hotels. Starwood hired Gerber to develop The W Hotel brand at a time when hotel bars were more synonymous with lonely business travelers and tired parents after a day at Disney than they were with nightlife. "Soon as we partnered with Starwood we realized the bar and restaurant was an amenity to the hotel guest," Gerber said. And the guests don't just want to mingle with other guests, they want to feel like they're a part of whatever city they're in. That means attracting the locals. In this case the locals will be attracted by Kingside Restaurant on the Viceroy's ground floor. It's spearheaded by Chef Marc Murphy, of Landmarc and Ditch Plains (and yes, TV show "Chopped") fame. Think open space and simple, New American-style fare. Upstairs you have The Roof, which looks and feels like a floating clubhouse. Have at it. Viceroy FREE AppDownload
CNBC screenshotBrad Katsuyama and Bill O'BrienTwo CEOs of exchanges got in a nasty brawl on CNBC's "Power Lunch" over high-frequency trading.  William "Bill" O'Brien, the CEO of BATS, slammed Brad Katsuyama, the CEO and president of IEX, and author Michael Lewis. Katsuyama is the hero in Michael Lewis' new book, "Flash Boys." His firm, IEX, is an alternative exchange.  "I've been shaking my head a lot quite frankly the last 36 hours ... Michael and Brad, shame on both of you," he said, adding that they've possibly scared "millions of investors in an effort to promote a business model." CNBC correspondent Bob Pisani asked Katsuyama if he thought the markets were rigged. "I think it's really hard to put a word on it," Katsuyama began. O'Brien jumped in. "He said it in the book. You said it in the book ... it's disgusting that you're trying to parse your words now. You can't say that ... Do you believe it or not? Because you said it." "I believe the markets are rigged. And I also think that you're a part of the rigging. So if you want to do this, let's do this," Katsuyama said. Katsuyama said that it's the responsibility of a venue to fairly price trades between fast and slow participants. The brokers on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange exploded with cheers at this comment.  "You had a 300-page commercial, OK? So let me talk," O'Brien shot back later in the interview, referring to Lewis' new book.  During the interview, Katsuyama said he thought we should get rid of the term "high-frequency trading." "You used it 20 times in your book!" O'Brien said.  "It's not his book," CNBC anchor Tyler Mathisen jumped in before they brought Michael Lewis back into the discussion.  "I've been enjoying that," Lewis said. "It's great to see Bill ... tell Brad he's doing this to promote a business model." He added that O'Brien was saying "shame on you" to Katsuyama.   "I'll say it again," O'Brien shot back. "I think he's outrageous. I think he's part of the problem," Lewis told CNBC. O'Brien then accused Lewis of never visiting BATS. Lewis said he toured the place on Feb. 5, 2013. "OK, we are going to follow up with CNBC about where Michael Lewis was on Feb. 5, 2013," O'Brien said. He asked if he was in Kansas City. "That's where we're located, by the way!" "There's actually no point in talking to someone who's just throwing dust in the air," Lewis said of O'Brien, pointing out that he wasn't the head of BATS when he wrote about the stuff that occurred.  Lewis said he was curious if they put the exchange on the other side of the Lincoln Tunnel intentionally in an effort to pick off orders. O'Brien told Lewis his book was "riddled with inaccuracies."  "You can get on air and shout all you want," Lewis said, "But it's just not true." "You have a much bigger soapbox than I do," O'Brien said.  FREE AppDownload
The S&amp;P 500 hit a new all-time high of 1884.60 this morning, and is currently trading 0.4% above Monday's closing levels. The previous intraday high of 1883.97 was set on March 21. Today is the first day of the quarter, which may be supportive of price action as investment managers deploy capital. We've also seen a string of U.S. economic data releases that have disappointed slightly relative to expectations, but don't point to any worrying trends in their own right. The charts below show movements in various markets this morning. Across the top from left to right are the S&amp;P 500 index, the U.S. dollar-Japanese yen exchange rate, and the euro-U.S. dollar exchange rate. Across the bottom are gold futures, 5-year U.S. Treasury futures, and December 2015 eurodollar futures. Thinkorswim FREE AppDownload
Ineichen Research & Management AG The chart above, taken from the latest presentation by Alexander Ineichen at Ineichen Research &amp; Management, shows the path of various stock markets following historic bubbles and crashes. Believe it or not, one of the worst stock market recoveries in history — worse, for example, than that of U.S. stocks in the wake of the 1929 crash, or tech stocks in the wake of the collapse of the dot-com bubble — is playing out right now in China. The Shanghai Composite is down more than 60% from its 2007 peak and has shown no signs of turning up. FREE AppDownload
APA picture from the Michael Weber profiles on Wayn.com and Google Plus. While the true identity of the possibly pseudonymous founder of Bitcoin Satoshi Nakamoto remains a mystery, there is one man who can be linked definitively to the digital cryptocurrency prior to its public debut. He's a software developer who goes by the name Michael Weber, appears to be in his early 30s, and has a fondness for tight t-shirts, working out, heavily gelled hair, and sunglasses. Based on his apparent connection to Bitcoin.org, the site used by Nakamoto in 2008 to launch the digital currency, Weber has been cited on multiple forums as potentially being one of the people behind the Bitcoin. While there's no evidence Weber authored the Bitcoin code, the creator of the cryptocurrency clearly used his services. Furthermore, Business Insider has found additional connections between Weber and Nakamoto, as well as new information demonstrating Weber's past interest in anonymous online banking. Weber has not responded to multiple requests for comment from Business Insider made via his email and phone numbers in Japan and Mexico. The WHOIS domain records for Bitcoin.org show the site was first registered in 2008 to "Anonymousspeech LLC," a company dedicated to providing anonymous email and web surfing services to customers. In a recent email to BI, Martti Malmi, a developer who is one of Nakamoto's earliest confirmed collaborators, told Business Insider that Bitcoin.org was "originally created by Satoshi."   Though his name did not appear on the Bitcoin.org registration, there is substantial information indicating Weber has played a key role in "AnonymousSpeech LLC." AnonymousSpeech.com, the website associated with that company, shows it is dedicated to providing anonymous email and web surfing services to customers. An archived description on the site from 2007 said the company "specializes in international law and IT security consulting" and had been "based in Tokyo, Japan since 1996." By 2009, the AnonymousSpeech.com site indicated the company was "located in Switzerland" and, as a result, "governed by Swiss law and allowed to delete customer data legally from its servers."  In 2007, AnonymousSpeech advertised the ability to accept bank transfer payments to a Swiss bank account identified as belonging to "Mike Weber." The company also took payments via "E-Gold" a service that allowed anonymous, digital transfer of gold ownership between users. By 2008, AnonymousSpeech was also taking payments via Bank Weber, which is billed on its website as a "Swiss Internet Bank." According to WHOIS records, Bank Weber's homepage was first registered to a Michael Weber at a residential address in Tokyo in 2007.  Business Insider sent a message to the contact email identified on the Bank Weber site on March 18 inquiring about the company's services. As of this writing, we have not received an answer. By late 2010, AnonymousSpeech was accepting payments via Bank Weber, E-Gold, Weber's Swiss Bank account, and Western Union. Customers who opted for Western Union payments were instructed to send them to "Michael Niklaus Weber" in Mexico City. In March 2013, a note on the site indicated it no longer accepted "payments from E-Gold." However, by the end of the year, AnonymousSpeech featured a banner boasting "We Accept Bitcoin." In addition to AnonymousSpeech and Bank Weber, records show a second connection between Weber and Nakamoto. Bank Weber was registered in Weber’s name with the street address of "Sakura House," a real estate agency in Tokyo specializing in shared accommodations for foreigners. The same Sakura House address was used to register Bitcoin.org. The registration for the Bank Weber site also included an email, wwwmichi@gmx.ch, which is connected to records for at least 19 other domains. One of those domains is Vistomail.com, which is registered to: Nakamoto used a Vistomail account, satoshi@vistomail.com, to make forum posts and to communicate with the developers who helped build the Bitcoin code. Nakamoto's other known email — the one he included on his Bitcoin manifesto — is satoshin@gmx.com, which uses the same free email provider apparently favored by Weber.  Nakamoto has not responded to messages from Business Insider sent to both of those emails. Vistomail was also apparently popular among some users of Silk Road, the now-shuttered illicit online drug marketplace where Bitcoin was the local currency. A quick request to PerfectScans@vistomail.com would get users "High End Professional Document Creation." Treva@vistomail.com, meanwhile, took orders in the UK for marijuana. Malmi told Business Insider that Weber was the contact for Anonymous Speech's domain registry service, but was "not related to bitcoin in any way" beyond that. "Domain names need to have valid contact details, some registrars allow clients to stay anonymous behind the registrar's name," Malmi said in a recent Skype chat. "Anonymousspeech is one of the few registrars that don't require any details from its clients. You can just create an account and pay by cash in the mail (or bitcoins these days)." At the very least, it's clear Nakamoto knew about services Weber was offering and used them for his email and to register the site where he launched Bitcoin. Malmi, who has previously denied being Satoshi, has himself has played a role in managing Bitcoin.org. In late 2011, WHOIS records show registration of the Bitcoin site was transferred from AnonymousSpeech to a Finnish domain company, Louhi Networks Oy. Malmi works in Finland. He confirmed the site was transferred to him in 2011. He described this as the "first time (in 2011) I was in contact with Satoshi."  The Bitcoin.org registration was transferred back to AnonymousSpeech in September 2013 before moving to Whoisguard two months later. Malmi said the site was transferred from Weber's company because of an unspecified "security issue." "Last year it was on anonymousspeech for some time to allow multiple admins without a breach of ToS but it was transferred to the current domain host because of a security issue," said Malmi. "Now there are other admins besides me, but they wish to stay anonymous." Other sites and social media accounts linked to Weber provide further information about his personality, activities, and current whereabouts. In 2007, Weber registered the site NaNiNu.com, which seemed to be an early social network designed to organize events and networking for foreigners living in Tokyo. One 2006 party oraganized on the site was described by its unnamed administrator as a farewell for “ a member of the infamous Sakura House in proud Nakano Sakaue gang” who was “leaving Japan soon.” Steven Taradai, a representative for the Sakura House real estate agency in Tokyo confirmed via email that their property near the Nakano Sakaue train station in Shinjuku is located at the street address used by Weber. Business Insider asked Taradai whether Sakura House had records of Weber living at the apartment building and he declined to comment saying the company is, "legally and contractually bound not the release the information about Sakura House tenants and their place of residence to the third party." GoalSetting1.comThe picture from Michael Weber's profile on goalsetting1.com. GoalSetting1.com is another site registered to Weber through his name and the email and physical addresses in Tokyo he has used for other registrations. That site is a social network that allows users to share their personal goals. A note on the site identifies Michael Weber as its "founder and creator." There is also a page for Weber on the site that appears to have been posted in early 2006. Weber's goals included: "stop procrastinating," attain a "golf score under 100," "power gain on Creatine," and "stop picking my nose." He also described himself as a Swiss software developer living in Japan who was "always around" two Tokyo neighborhoods known for nightlife — Roppongi and Nishi Azabu. A photo on Weber's goal-setting profile appears to match pictures on other accounts identified as belonging to a Michael Weber on Google Plus and Wayn.com. The Google Plus page is far more sparse and it has not been updated since late 2011. It identified Weber as living in Mexico City and includes a single picture captioned "Capitan Mike" that seems to show Weber piloting a small aircraft. Weber's Wayn page is much more recent than his Google Plus profile. It was updated as recently as last month and identifies him as being "currently in Mexico City." Obviously, none of this is a smoking gun showing Weber is the person behind "Satoshi Nakamoto." There's no definitive proof he's involved in Bitcoin beyond providing its inventor with an anonymous email domain and hosting the site used for the cryptocurrency's launch. Still, Weber's ties to Bitcoin.org and Vistomail make him one of the only people who can be conclusively linked to Bitcoin before it was made public. His ties to AnonymousSpeech.com also suggest he had some level of technical expertise and an interest in anonymous digital currencies.  One odd site registered in Weber's name with the Sakura House address and wwwmichi@gmx.ch email is aidsgame.com, which was billed in 2004 as "the first Internet Virtual HIV test." Current versions of the site proclaim "HIV Does Not Cause AIDS" and feature a curious note. "I came to the conclusion that AidsGame.com is a joke! I leave this page online since i ranks high for certain HIV/AIDS related keywords," the note said. However small Weber's role was in the launch of Bitcoin, it's clear his apparent interests in digital currency align significantly with Satoshi's.  Know anything further about Weber or his role in Bitcoin? Drop us a line. FREE AppDownload
General Motors is in hot water over its recall of more than 2.6 million vehicles produced between 2003 and 2011, and the recent media and government attention has generated a fresh flood of complaints about the concerned cars. The recall includes seven GM models made between 2003 and 2011, which may have faulty ignition switches that can flip out of the “run” position while the car is moving, turning off the engine, cutting some electric power, and disabling the airbags. Crashes caused by the defect have been connected to 13 deaths. The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA), responsible for investigating possible safety defects in cars, publishes complaints it receives from consumers. Looking at records for the GM cars involved in the recall, there's been a noticeable spike in complaints since the recall started getting widespread attention in February. In January, the NHTSA published 7 complaints about Chevy Cobalts made between 2005 and 2007. In March, that number jumped to 144. The dates of the detailed incidents go as far back as 2005, and report ignition switch and airbag failure along with other issues. Chevy HHRs made between 2006 and 2007, also subject to the recall, saw a similar spike: 14 complaints in January, 57 in March. Here are a few excerpts from complaints submitted in recent weeks: For a 2005 Cobalt, submitted March 19, date of incident August 18, 2011: THE CONTACT OWNS A 2005 CHEVROLET COBALT. THE CONTACT STATED WHILE DRIVING APPROXIMATELY 55 MPH, THE VEHICLE STALLED AS THE POWER STEERING WARNING LIGHT ILLUMINATED. THE VEHICLE WAS TAKEN TO THE DEALER WHERE IT WAS DIAGNOSED THAT THE IGNITION SWITCH NEEDED TO BE REPLACED. THE MANUFACTURER WAS NOTIFIED OF THE FAILURE. THE VEHICLE WAS REPAIRED BUT THE FAILURE RECURRED. THE APPROXIMATE FAILURE MILEAGE WAS 31,000 AND THE CURRENT MILEAGE WAS 71,155.  For a 2007 HHR, submitted March 25, date of incident April 29, 2012: MY FAMILY AND I WERE INVOLVED IN A MOTOR VEHICLE ACCIDENT ON OR AROUND 04/29/12. I WAS DRIVING THE VEHICLE WHEN SUDDENLY I LOST CONTROL OF MY VEHICLE FOR AN UNKNOWN REASON WHICH CAUSED ME TO NOSE DIVE AND ROLLOVER SEVERAL TIMES DOWN INTO AN EMBANKMENT, AND NO AIR BAGS DEPLOYED, WHICH IS SURPRISIING CONSIDERING HOW SEVERE THIS ACCIDENT WAS. And for a 2006 Saturn ion, submitted March 25, date of incident January 14, 2014: MY DAUGHTER WAS DRIVING THE CAR HIT A BUMP AND THE CAR SHUT DOWN. IT STARTED BACK UP, DROVE IT HOME AND PARKED IT. GM ISSUED RECALL ON THE IGNITION. I CALLED THE DEALERSHIP AND THEY SAID GM KIND OF JUMPED THE GUN ON THE RECALL AS THE PARTS HAVEN'T BEEN SHIPPED AND TO CALL BACK IN 2 WEEKS. I CALLED AFTER TWO WEEKS AND THEY SAID NO PART TO CALL BACK IN A MONTH. HE SAID THE CAR IS SAFE TO DRIVE BUT ONLY HAVE THE KEY IN THE IGNITION AND NOT ON A CHAIN. WELL THE IGNITION CAN SHUT THE CAR DOWN IF A BUMP IS GONE OVER OR IF THE KEY IS JARRED IN ANY WAY. THE CAR HAS BEEN PARKED SINCE JANUARY. Meanwhile, lawyers are rushing to find clients to represent for potential lawsuits against the automaker, several of which have already been filed. GM has not instructed customers to stop driving their cars, saying the recalled vehicles are fine even before new parts are installed, as long as no extra keys or objects are on their keychains. “The GM engineers have done extensive analysis to make sure if you use only the ignition key with no additional items on the key ring, that the vehicle is safe to drive,” the company has told owners. GM CEO Mary Barra and the acting head of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA), David Friedman, will testify before the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee in a hearing today, titled "The GM Ignition Switch Recall: Why Did It Take So Long?" FREE AppDownload
AP PhotoVincent Viola listens during a news conference Friday, Sept. 27, 2013, in Sunrise, Fla., after he was formally introduced as the new owner of the Florida Panthers NHL hockey team. (AP Photo/J Pat Carter)A SEC probe into high frequncy trading firms, and more attention from a pesky New York Attorney General — last week all of that seemed like a slight bump in the road for the upcoming IPO of one of the most powerful high frequency trading firms in the world, Virtu. Valued at as much as $3 billion, the company was hoping to raise $100 million in its IPO — maybe even $200, or $250 million this month. The word was that this would turn CEO Vicent Viola, a former Nymex Chair who owns 70% of the company, into a billionaire over night. Private equity firm Silver Lake has a $250 million stake in the company. This week things are looking different. All of financial news is debating high frequency trading thanks to Michael Lewis' new book, "Flash Boys: A Wall Street Revolt." It's about a group of Royal Bank of Canada traders who realize they're getting cheated by high speed trading robots, so they go rogue and create their own exchange where investors can be safe. It's called IEX. Since then, the FBI has said that it will join financial regulators like the CFTC in probing HFT practices. That's why, according to the Wall Street Journal, Virtu is going on a "charm offensive." The firm is touting its partnership with IEX, and CEO Brad Katsuyama said Virtu is one of the "good high-frequency traders." But that doesn't change what Virtu itself wrote in its IPO prospectus: "Regulatory and legal uncertainties could harm our business. These uncertainties could increase our costs and inhibit our plan to provide liquidity in new securities and other financial instruments as new regulations cause migration of certain products to electronic trading. And this: "We are subject to risks relating to litigation and potential securities law liability, which could increase our costs and negate any competitive advantage we have based on our low-cost structure." Lewis says that high frequency trading firms have "rigged" the market against regular investors. That has specific meaning when it comes to these investigations and Virtu. The CFTC, specifically, is looking into Virtu's trading from 2011 to November 2013. The prospectus says that the probe has to do with Virtu's "participation in certain incentive programs offered by exchanges or venues during that time period." A French regulator is also looking into the work of one of Virtu's subsidiaries. And then there's transactions fees. This has been floated around in the United States as a way to stop HFT firms from spitting out quotes that they never mean to fill — something the FBI is investigating — but it's far from being a rule. The European Union, though, voted introduce a financial transaction tax in February 2013. And Virtu isn't Teflon The company usually makes $1-2 million a day trading, but running an HFT firm is expensive.   From Virtu's prospectus: Virtu S-1 In 2013 the firm made $664 million in revenue, but $476 million of that went to operating expenses. The firm ended up taking in $182 million, a nice increase from 2012 $87 million number. It's a nice cushion to be sure, but now that so many regulators are looking into Virtu's business model it may not seem like enough. In a worst case doomsday scenario, the firm could end up paying out lawsuits, or having to create a new infrastructure to deal with regulation. All the sudden, that's all on the table when last year there was barely a table. It could put a sizable dent in $182 million, especially since compensation expenses jumped from $46 million in 2011 to $78 million. You gotta keep your traders, and Virtu says in its prospectus that it wants to expand, which means hiring more and more. And if you're public, you have to deal with quarterly reports and public disclosures read by potentially skittish investors. Virtu said that any change in government liquidity requirements could hurt the firm as well. So it's a shifting landscape, and investors don't love "shifts" or "uncertainty" or "surprises"... We'll see how this goes. FREE AppDownload
Federal Reserve Bank of St. LouisSt. Louis Fed Vice President David Andolfatto has outed himself as the central bank official most bullish on Bitcoin. In a new presentation, Andolfatto calls Bitcoin "a stroke of genius" and says the digital currency's technology is causing existing financial institutions will have to "adapt or die."  And he says central banks — including the Fed itself — should welcome the challenge Bitcoin has posed. Hence the image above. Besides his enthusiasm, his presentation provides a really clean, simple snapshot of what Bitcoin is for anyone who may still be fuzzy on what it is. Check it out. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersEurogroup President Dijsselbloem, Greece's FM Stournaras and Governor of Bank of Greece Provopoulos talk in AthensBy Martin Santa and Jan Strupczewski (Reuters) - Greece, fully funded for the next 12 months, hopes to finance itself on the market afterwards, but its euro zone peers say success depends on whether Athens delivers on the reforms it has promised so far. Greece was cut off from markets in 2010 as the true scale of its debt burden became apparent. But after four years of painful measures to contain debt, two bailouts worth 240 billion euros ($330 billion) and a hit on private bondholders, the Greek economy is expected to return to modest growth this year. Encouraged by falling bond yields, Greece is considering ending its four-year exclusion from bond markets by selling 1.5 billion-2 billion euros of five-year bonds in a test issue in the first half of the year. The cash raised would complement money that Athens will get from the euro zone and the International Monetary Fund after a deal in March which unblocks the payment of overdue tranches. The certainty that Greece will have enough money over the next 12 months to cover its expenses is important because it is a condition for the IMF to keep lending to Athens even after euro zone loans stop at the end of 2014. "We had assurance... that Greece is fully financed for the coming 12 months," the chairman of euro zone finance ministers Jeroen Dijsselbloem told a news conference after they met. The ministers decided the next tranche of loans they would send to Greece would be 6.3 billion euros at the end of April. This will allow Athens to comfortably meet its large bond redemption needs in May. Greece will get two more tranches of 1 billion euros each in the following months, although the disbursements will hinge on the government meeting specific conditions. What happens after the next 12 months, however, is still uncertain because it depends on market conditions and on the Greek economy. Last week, a senior euro zone official said there were no plans for a third bailout, and such an option would be considered only if Athens asks for it. "I have taken note of the optimism, or, let's say the ambition of the Greek government, not to have another programme. Of course I would like to share that ambition, yet I think it's too early to say," Dijsselbloem said. "It's of utmost importance to focus on commitments in current programme," he said. Earlier on Tuesday, Austria's finance minister Michael Spindelegger said Greece may not need another bailout. GREECE ON VERGE OF TURNING CORNER If Athens succeeds in attracting investors to its bonds so soon after imposing heavy losses on them in 2012, it could be a game changer that boosts its chances of servicing its debts at more affordable levels. That would support economic recovery, and give European policymakers a chance to assert that the much-criticized currency bloc can take care of its members and help them reform. Greek 10-year yields have fallen to about 6.5 percent from more than 30 percent in the past two years, a striking improvement in the government's notional cost of borrowing. The European Commission expects Greece to return to economic growth for the first time in 6 years, predicting gross domestic product (GDP) will grow 0.6 percent this year and 2.9 percent next year. But with unemployment seen at 24 percent next year and public debt nearly triple the EU limit of 60 percent of GDP, Greece still has a long way to go. "The Greek economy is stabilizing and we expect a return to growth and a gradual recovery in employment starting this year," EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner Olli Rehn said. "To strengthen this recovery and boost job creation, it will be essential for Greece to continue to embrace economic reforms, maintain sound public finances and facilitate targeted investments," he said. (Additional reporting by Tom Koerkemeier and John O'Donnell in Athens and Marius Zaharia in London; Editing by Ruth Pitchford) FREE AppDownload
Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg) French manufacturing appears to be making a comeback. The country's manufacturing Purchasing Managers Index, a survey-based indicator of momentum in the goods-producing sector compiled by Markit, posted the biggest rise of any major economy in the first quarter of 2014, advancing to 52.1 from 47.0. “The French manufacturing sector delivered a much-improved performance in March, buoyed by solid growth of new orders," said Jack Kennedy, a senior economist at Markit, in a press release. "With the sector having finally moved into expansion territory following a prolonged spell of weakness, firms will be looking for signs of a convincing recovery taking hold before looking to boost areas such as employment. If input prices continue to fall, French manufacturers may look to gain a competitive edge through cutting output prices." Readings below 50 on the index indicate varying degrees of contraction in activity, whereas readings above 50 indicate varying degrees of expansion, and a 50 reading implies no change from the previous month. Chart 1 shows just-released March manufacturing PMI data for all of the countries tracked by Markit. Ireland, the Czech Republic, and the United States all clocked in at 55.5, meaning manufacturing growth in those countries outpaced that in the rest of the world last month. France, Spain, and Ireland saw the biggest increase in their respective PMIs relative to three months ago, marking the most-improved manufacturing sectors in the first quarter of 2014. Russia, China, and Greece are the only countries sub-50 (contractionary) PMI readings, while Russia and China claim the only manufacturing sectors where not only is manufacturing activity contracting, but the pace of contraction is accelerating. Most countries currently fall under the category of those with manufacturing sectors that continue to expand, but are experiencing a slowdown in the pace of expansion. These countries are shown in the lower-right quadrant of the chart. FREE AppDownload
AP Rep. Paul Ryan, the chair of the House Budget Committee, on Tuesday introduced the 2015 House Republican budget, the latest iteration of the Ryan-steered budget that aims to balance the budget within 10 years.  Here are the key points: The budget faces a difficult vote in the House, and it's questionable whether Ryan can earn enough Republican support for the plan to pass. The document is almost solely for political reasons, as the bipartisan budget deal Ryan hatched with Senate Budget Committee Chair Patty Murray has already set discretionary spending levels for 2015. "The Bipartisan Budget Act was a good first step. But we can and must do more," Ryan said in a statement. "As the House majority, we have a responsibility to lay out a long-term vision for the country, and this budget shows how we will solve our nation’s biggest challenges." Here's the full budget blueprint: Paul Ryan budget 2015  More to come... FREE AppDownload
The Bureau of Labor Statistics has published a new report showing the top 10 most common professions in the U.S. The top three are all basically in the retail industry: salespeople, cashiers, and fast-food workers. BLS Of the top 10 jobs, nearly all are "low paying" work, with the exception of registered nurses. This chart compares how they all compare to the average. BLS Check out the full report here &gt; FREE AppDownload
REUTERSIt's April Fools' Day and you can expect that some pranks and jokes might be pulled on Wall Street. But the pranks are nothing like they used to be. If you ever get the chance to speak to a veteran floor trader, you really should. They're likely full of incredible stories about the good (or bad) ole days on the floor.  They'll probably tell you about the amazing sense of camaraderie on the floor and the epic pranks they used to pull on each other.     "Every joke was invented down there," a retired NYSE specialist said.   "I always tell people that it was like being in a fraternity.  The biggest jokes that were played on new workers and even better when companies had their clients come to visit were the spurs, an arrow on their backs.  When the arrow (which was made of paper) was placed on their back everyone would do a tribal dance and chants.  The customers had no idea what was going on, it was comical," a former NYMEX clerk told us. However, the humor has subsided in recent years since some of the exchanges are publicly traded and have more eyes and television cameras on them. "Fortunately, or unfortunately, you don't see those pranks anymore," another veteran floor trader told Business Insider. Veteran traders both in New York and Chicago from the NYSE, CBOT, NYMEX and AMEX told us about some of the classic pranks and jokes they used to pull back in the day.  * If you have another trading floor prank, joke or story you would like to share, please send Julia an email at jlaroche@businessinsider.com.   FREE AppDownload
The Institute for Supply Management said its manufacturing index hit 53.7 in March. Expectations were for a reading of 54.0, up from 53.2. The prices paid index fell to 59.0. Analysts expected a decline to 59.5 from 60.0 prior. Employment slowed to 51.1 from 52.3. Here are the anecdotes from the survey's "what respondents are saying" section: Full release: (Tempe, Arizona) — Economic activity in the manufacturing sector expanded in March for the 10th consecutive month, and theoverall economy grew for the 58th consecutive month, say the nation's supply executives in the latest Manufacturing ISM® Report On Business®. The report was issued today by Bradley J. Holcomb, CPSM, CPSD, chair of the Institute for Supply Management® (ISM®) Manufacturing Business Survey Committee. "The March PMI® registered 53.7 percent, an increase of 0.5 percentage point from February's reading of 53.2 percent, indicating expansion in manufacturing for the 10th consecutive month. The New Orders Index registered 55.1 percent, an increase of 0.6 percentage point from February's reading of 54.5 percent. The Production Index registered 55.9 percent, a substantial increase of 7.7 percentage points compared to February's reading of 48.2 percent. Employment grew for the ninth consecutive month, but at a lower rate by 1.2 percentage points, registering 51.1 percent compared to February's reading of 52.3 percent. Several comments from the panel reflect favorable demand and good business conditions, with some lingering concerns about the particularly adverse weather conditions across the country." Of the 18 manufacturing industries, 14 are reporting growth in March in the following order: Petroleum &amp; Coal Products; Transportation Equipment; Furniture &amp; Related Products; Paper Products; Printing &amp; Related Support Activities; Plastics &amp; Rubber Products; Fabricated Metal Products; Machinery; Textile Mills; Computer &amp; Electronic Products; Nonmetallic Mineral Products; Food, Beverage &amp; Tobacco Products; Chemical Products; and Primary Metals. The four industries reporting contraction in March are: Apparel, Leather &amp; Allied Products; Wood Products; Electrical Equipment, Appliances &amp; Components; and Miscellaneous Manufacturing. Manufacturing ISM® Report On Business® data is seasonally adjusted for New Orders, Production, Employment and Supplier Deliveries indexes. *Number of months moving in current direction. Aluminum (2); Corn; Dairy (2); Diesel; Foam; Freight; Gasoline; HDPE (2); Lumber; MRO Supplies; Molybdenum; Nickel; Packaging (2); Plastic Resins (4); Polyethylene Resin; Stainless Steel; Steel* (4); and Wood (5). Caustic Soda; Copper; Natural Gas; Steel*; Steel — Hot Rolled. The only commodity reported in short supply is Helium. Note: The number of consecutive months the commodity is listed is indicated after each item.*Reported as both up and down in price.       Manufacturing expanded in March as the PMI® registered 53.7 percent, an increase of 0.5 percentage points when compared to February's reading of 53.2 percent. A reading above 50 percent indicates that the manufacturing economy is generally expanding; below 50 percent indicates that it is generally contracting. A PMI® in excess of 43.2 percent, over a period of time, generally indicates an expansion of the overall economy. Therefore, the March PMI® indicates growth for the 58th consecutive month in the overall economy, and indicates expansion in the manufacturing sector for the 10th consecutive month. Holcomb stated, "The past relationship between the PMI® and the overall economy indicates that the average PMI® for January through March (52.7 percent) corresponds to a 3.1 percent increase in real gross domestic product (GDP) on an annualized basis. In addition, if the PMI® for March (53.7 percent) is annualized, it corresponds to a 3.5 percent increase in real GDP annually." ISM®'s New Orders Index registered 55.1 percent in March, an increase of 0.6 percentage point when compared to the February reading of 54.5 percent. This represents growth in new orders for the 10th consecutive month. A New Orders Index above 52.1 percent, over time, is generally consistent with an increase in the Census Bureau's series on manufacturing orders (in constant 2000 dollars). The 11 industries reporting growth in new orders in March — listed in order — are: Textile Mills; Transportation Equipment; Machinery; Petroleum &amp; Coal Products; Furniture &amp; Related Products; Paper Products; Fabricated Metal Products; Primary Metals; Food, Beverage &amp; Tobacco Products; Computer &amp; Electronic Products; and Chemical Products. The three industries reporting a decrease in new orders during March are: Apparel, Leather &amp; Allied Products; Wood Products; and Electrical Equipment, Appliances &amp; Components. ISM®'s Production Index registered 55.9 percent in March, which is an increase of 7.7 percentage points when compared to the 48.2 percent reported in February. This represents the largest month-over-month increase in production since June 2009 when the increase was 12.7 percentage points. It also indicates a return to growth in production following only one month of contraction in the last 19 months. An index above 51.1 percent, over time, is generally consistent with an increase in the Federal Reserve Board's Industrial Production figures. The 11 industries reporting growth in production during the month of March — listed in order — are: Paper Products; Primary Metals; Plastics &amp; Rubber Products; Fabricated Metal Products; Transportation Equipment; Furniture &amp; Related Products; Machinery; Chemical Products; Petroleum &amp; Coal Products; Food, Beverage &amp; Tobacco Products; and Computer &amp; Electronic Products. The four industries reporting a decrease in production in March are: Apparel, Leather &amp; Allied Products; Wood Products; Electrical Equipment, Appliances &amp; Components; and Textile Mills. ISM®'s Employment Index registered 51.1 percent in March, which is a decrease of 1.2 percentage points when compared February's reading of 52.3 percentage points, and represents the ninth consecutive month of growth in employment. An Employment Index above 50.6 percent, over time, is generally consistent with an increase in the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) data on manufacturing employment. Of the 18 manufacturing industries, 10 reported growth in employment in March in the following order: Printing &amp; Related Support Activities; Furniture &amp; Related Products; Petroleum &amp; Coal Products; Paper Products; Transportation Equipment; Machinery; Chemical Products; Fabricated Metal Products; Computer &amp; Electronic Products; and Miscellaneous Manufacturing. The five industries reporting a decrease in employment in March are: Apparel, Leather &amp; Allied Products; Textile Mills; Electrical Equipment, Appliances &amp; Components; Primary Metals; and Food, Beverage &amp; Tobacco Products. The delivery performance of suppliers to manufacturing organizations slowed in March at a slower rate relative to February as the Supplier Deliveries Index registered 54 percent. This month's reading is 4.5 percentage points lower than the 58.5 percent reported in February. A reading below 50 percent indicates faster deliveries, while a reading above 50 percent indicates slower deliveries. The nine industries reporting slower supplier deliveries in March — listed in order — are: Plastics &amp; Rubber Products; Computer &amp; Electronic Products; Nonmetallic Mineral Products; Chemical Products; Food, Beverage &amp; Tobacco Products; Paper Products; Fabricated Metal Products; Machinery; and Transportation Equipment. The three industries reporting faster supplier deliveries in March are: Textile Mills; Electrical Equipment, Appliances &amp; Components; and Miscellaneous Manufacturing. Six industries reported no change in supplier deliveries in March compared to February. The Inventories Index registered 52.5 percent in March, the same reading as reported in February, and indicates that inventories are growing for the second consecutive month, following two consecutive months of contraction. An Inventories Index greater than 42.8 percent, over time, is generally consistent with expansion in the Bureau of Economic Analysis' (BEA) figures on overall manufacturing inventories (in chained 2000 dollars). The 12 industries reporting higher inventories in March — listed in order — are: Textile Mills; Printing &amp; Related Support Activities; Petroleum &amp; Coal Products; Nonmetallic Mineral Products; Plastics &amp; Rubber Products; Transportation Equipment; Furniture &amp; Related Products; Paper Products; Food, Beverage &amp; Tobacco Products; Fabricated Metal Products; Computer &amp; Electronic Products; and Electrical Equipment, Appliances &amp; Components. The four industries reporting decreases in inventories in March are: Primary Metals; Miscellaneous Manufacturing; Chemical Products; and Machinery. ISM®'s Customers' Inventories Index registered 42 percent in March, which is 4.5 percentage points lower than in February when the index registered 46.5 percent. This month's reading indicates that customers' inventories are considered too low, and is the lowest reading since May 2011 when the Customers' Inventories Index registered 39.5 percent. Customers' inventories have registered at or below 50 percent for 60 consecutive months. A reading below 50 percent indicates customers' inventories are considered too low.   The only manufacturing industry reporting customers' inventories as being too high during the month of March is Food, Beverage &amp; Tobacco Products. The 11 industries reporting customers' inventories as too low during March — listed in order — are: Plastics &amp; Rubber Products; Textile Mills; Electrical Equipment, Appliances &amp; Components; Furniture &amp; Related Products; Transportation Equipment; Computer &amp; Electronic Products; Fabricated Metal Products; Machinery; Paper Products; Miscellaneous Manufacturing; and Chemical Products. Six industries reported no change in customers' inventories in March compared to February.   The ISM® Prices Index registered 59 percent in March, which is a decrease of 1 percentage point compared to the February reading of 60 percent. In March, 28 percent of respondents reported paying higher prices, 10 percent reported paying lower prices, and 62 percent of supply executives reported paying the same prices as in February. A Prices Index above 49.7 percent, over time, is generally consistent with an increase in the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) Index of Manufacturers Prices. Of the 18 manufacturing industries, 12 reported paying increased prices during the month of March in the following order: Food, Beverage &amp; Tobacco Products; Wood Products; Plastics &amp; Rubber Products; Apparel, Leather &amp; Allied Products; Furniture &amp; Related Products; Petroleum &amp; Coal Products; Miscellaneous Manufacturing; Textile Mills; Chemical Products; Electrical Equipment, Appliances &amp; Components; Paper Products; and Machinery. The four industries reporting paying lower prices during the month of March are: Computer &amp; Electronic Products; Transportation Equipment; Fabricated Metal Products; and Primary Metals. ISM®'s Backlog of Orders Index registered 57.5 percent in March, which is 5.5 percentage points higher than the 52 percent reported in February, indicating notable growth in order backlogs relative to February. Of the 86 percent of respondents who reported their backlog of orders, 28 percent reported greater backlogs, 13 percent reported smaller backlogs, and 59 percent reported no change from February. The 14 industries reporting increased order backlogs in March — listed in order — are: Textile Mills; Paper Products; Nonmetallic Mineral Products; Furniture &amp; Related Products; Transportation Equipment; Plastics &amp; Rubber Products; Machinery; Primary Metals; Fabricated Metal Products; Computer &amp; Electronic Products; Miscellaneous Manufacturing; Chemical Products; Food, Beverage &amp; Tobacco Products; and Electrical Equipment, Appliances &amp; Components. The only industry reporting a decrease in order backlogs during March is Apparel, Leather &amp; Allied Products. ISM®'s New Export Orders Index registered 55.5 percent in March, which is 2 percentage points higher than the 53.5 percent reported in February. March's reading reflects growth in the level of exports for the 16th consecutive month. The 11 industries reporting growth in new export orders in March — listed in order — are: Wood Products; Furniture &amp; Related Products; Transportation Equipment; Textile Mills; Petroleum &amp; Coal Products; Machinery; Fabricated Metal Products; Electrical Equipment, Appliances &amp; Components; Chemical Products; Food, Beverage &amp; Tobacco Products; and Computer &amp; Electronic Products. The five industries reporting a decrease in new export orders during March are: Nonmetallic Mineral Products; Apparel, Leather &amp; Allied Products; Miscellaneous Manufacturing; Primary Metals; and Paper Products. ISM®'s Imports Index registered 54.5 percent in March, which is 1 percentage point higher than the 53.5 percent reported in February. This month's reading represents 14 consecutive months of growth in imports. The nine industries reporting growth in imports during the month of March — listed in order — are: Primary Metals; Petroleum &amp; Coal Products; Transportation Equipment; Plastics &amp; Rubber Products; Furniture &amp; Related Products; Machinery; Computer &amp; Electronic Products; Chemical Products; and Food, Beverage &amp; Tobacco Products. The five industries reporting a decrease in imports during March are: Printing &amp; Related Support Activities; Apparel, Leather &amp; Allied Products; Electrical Equipment, Appliances &amp; Components; Miscellaneous Manufacturing; and Fabricated Metal Products.     * The Inventories, Customers' Inventories, Prices, Backlog of Orders, New Export Orders and Imports Indexes do not meet the accepted criteria for seasonal adjustments. Average commitment lead time for Capital Expenditures decreased 16 days to 121 days. Average lead time for Production Materials increased by 1 day to 59 days. Average lead time for Maintenance, Repair and Operating (MRO) Supplies increased 1 day to 28 days. FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Mark LennihanConstruction spending climbed 0.1% month-over-month in February, beating expectations for it to stay flat. January's reading was revised down to reflect a 0.2% decline, from an initial reading of a 0.1% rise.  Residential construction was down 0.7% on the month. Private residential construction spending was down 0.8% and public residential construction spending was up 5.1%.  Homebuilder confidence has been disappointing, now sitting at 47 showing that more builders view conditions as poor than good. Meanwhile, new home sales fell 3.3% in February and the slowdown was attributed to the extreme cold weather. FREE AppDownload
MarkitTable 1. Readings above 50 indicate varying degrees of expansion whereas readings below 50 indicate varying degrees of contraction. A 50 reading indicates a level of activity unchanged from the previous month.The final results of Markit's U.S. manufacturing PMI survey are out. The report's headline index fell to 55.5 in March from February's 57.1 reading, in line with a preliminary estimate published by Markit a week ago. Market economists, however, expected the index to stage a smaller drop to 56.0. Table 1 displays changes in the index's various sub-components. "The fall in the composite Manufacturing PMI masks the ongoing resilience of output, new orders and employment growth, all of which continued to rise at historically strong rates in March," said Chris Williamson, chief economist at Markit, in the release. "That’s because the PMI also includes a measure of supplier delivery times, which dragged the PMI down but only because deliveries were quicker as a result of improved weather. The survey indicates that factory output growth has picked up again after the weather-related disruptions seen at the start of the year, presenting policymakers with an encouraging picture of a healthy goods- producing sector that is generating jobs at the rate of 15-20,000 per month." FREE AppDownload
AP PhotoTraders work on the floor of the Mexican stock exchange (Bolsa de Valores) Wednesday, April 17, 1996, in Mexico City. The Price Index at the exchange contiuned its week-long upward trend boosted today by Tuesday's sharp drop in interest rates at the Central Bank's auction of Treasury bills. (AP Photo/Dario Lopez Mills)(Reuters) - Citigroup's &lt;C.N&gt; Mexican subsidiary Banamex fired two bond traders after uncovering rogue trading last year, two sources close to the matter said, raising fresh questions over what controls the troubled unit had in place to police employees. Banamex suffered paper losses from unauthorized trading that ran into the millions or perhaps even tens of millions of dollars, the sources said. A spokeswoman for Citigroup confirmed the bank had fired two fixed income traders for violating its code of conduct and said in a written statement that the bank "escalated the issue to regulators and took immediate action against" the individuals. She did not elaborate. Mexico's bank and securities regulator, the National Bank and Securities Commission, is aware of the matter, which was investigated internally by the bank, a spokesman for the regulator said. The trading loss, even if realized, would be small in the scheme of Citigroup's $13.7 billion of earnings for 2013. The Mexican unit, which has in the past enjoyed a good deal of autonomy, has suffered much bigger losses from bad loans to homebuilders and oil services company Oceanografia. Some Citigroup officials are asking whether the U.S. Federal Reserve's decision last week to veto its plan to boost dividends and buy back more shares was linked to its Mexico troubles. Citigroup has cut the compensation for Manuel Medina-Mora, who has run Banamex for many years and is also co-president of Citigroup - a role in which he oversees global consumer banking. Medina-Mora was paid $9.5 million in total compensation for 2013, according to a proxy statement filed by Citigroup on March 12. That was down from the $11 million he received for 2012. The filing said a factor in his pay was control issues at Banamex USA, a unit of Banamex, which the U.S. government has faulted for not doing enough to stop money laundering by customers. Citigroup last year consented to an order from the Federal Reserve to take corrective steps. Medina-Mora has declined to comment on the pay cut. The bank has also taken $40 million of pay back from Banamex employees' bonus pool and said in a filing that it may cut pay for 2014 for senior executives at the bank. The Citigroup spokeswoman said Banamex was subject to the same oversight and controls required across the company. The bank was, however, working to "identify any areas where we need to strengthen our controls through stronger oversight or improved processes." MULTIPLE PROBLEMS Last year Citigroup said it could lose as much as $80 million from bad loans to Mexican home builders. The loans had been rejected by management in New York, only to be made by Banamex officials in Mexico, sources told Reuters. Banamex has discretion to make some loans that do not get vetted by Citigroup's central risk managers. Then in February Citigroup said Oceanografia had defrauded Banamex of $400 million. The Mexican government has begun a criminal investigation of Oceanografia and has taken control of the company, which has not commented on the allegations. The Federal Reserve did not cite Citigroup's difficulties in Mexico in its rejection last week of the bank's request to return more money to shareholders. But it did say the bank failed to properly consider how global economic turmoil would affect all of the bank's businesses, implying to many analysts that regulators are concerned about the bank's global reach. Citigroup operates in more than 100 countries. Managing such a vast empire is not easy, and for a long time, New York executives at the bank focused less on Mexico than on other areas of the world, because Banamex profits kept rolling in. Even accounting for the fraud at Oceanografia and the trading and homebuilder losses, Banamex generated some 10 percent of Citigroup's overall earnings last year. (Reporting by Elinor Comlay in Mexico City and David Henry in New York, additional reporting by Lauren Tara LaCapra in New York and Emily Stephenson in Washington; Editing by Dan Wilchins and Ross Colvin) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersRussian President Vladimir Putin addresses participants of the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum in St. Petersburg(Reuters) - A quarter-century after the fall of the Soviet Union, authoritarian rulers such as Vladimir Putin and Bashar al-Assad are showing they can and will defy international norms, suppress dissent and use military force. American policymakers are struggling with how to respond. "It's a big philosophical question about how to deal with a strong state with anti-Western and autocratic proclivities," said Michael McFaul, the most recent American ambassador to Moscow. "I would say on that score we are kind of confused as a country." Citing the sweeping unpopularity of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, American officials have embraced economic sanctions as their primary means of pressuring foreign governments. In an interconnected, 21st-century global economy, President Barack Obama argues, economic sanctions are more powerful than ever. If Russia continues on its current course, Obama warned last week, "the isolation will deepen, sanctions will increase and there will be more consequences for the Russian economy." He may be proven right. Over the course of 2014, the threat of economic sanctions may result in Putin backing down in Crimea and Ukraine. And historic sanctions against Iran - which slashed oil sales and cut the country off from the world banking system - could produce an accord that halts Iran's nuclear program. If not, a 16th-century Machiavellian truism will re-assert its dominance: The party most willing to decisively use force will prevail over a noncommittal opponent. "What we've seen with Assad and Putin is a willingness to smile at international norms and pursue power politics regardless of the cost," said Andrew Weiss, a Russia expert at the Carnegie Endowment and former official in the George H.W. Bush and Clinton administrations. "And if the West is not united and America's interests are not immediately threatened, the response immediately becomes attenuated." How to respond has already become an issue in the 2016 presidential race. In the weeks since Putin sent Russian troops into Crimea, Republican senators Rand Paul, Ted Cruz and Paul Ryan all criticized Obama's response. But none of them called for an American intervention in Ukraine. ECONOMIC CONNECTIONS Fiona Hill, a Russia expert at the Brookings Institution and a former National Intelligence Council official, said those who believed the collapse of the Soviet Union signified the triumph of Western democratic capitalism were deluding themselves. A large number of Russians remained deeply skeptical of Western norms. "It was only a very small elite around Yeltsin who were buying this," she said. "Too many people (Westerners) saw what they wanted to see, rather than what was happening." Then the global financial crisis strengthened a perception in parts of the world that Western democracy was failing - both politically and economically, Hill added. Shadi Hamid, a Middle East expert at the Brookings Institution's Saban Center, said Obama's decision to not intervene in Syria after last September's chemical weapons attack created a perception of American weakness. Strongmen, such as Egypt's military ruler, Abdel Fattah al-Sisi, had been emboldened. "They think they can get away with more than ever," Hamid said. "And this is tied to a growing sense of weakness under the Obama administration, whether it's fair or unfair." Obama administration officials deny that. They argue that another costly intervention in the Middle East would further weaken the American economy. And they contend that economic and technological strength - not brute force alone - will be the dominant source of power for decades to come. Steven Pifer, a former American ambassador to Ukraine and now a fellow at the Brookings Institution, argued that economic inter-connectedness will have an impact on Putin. Pifer said the Russian leader knows he needs trade with the outside world. "While the West may rule out the military option," Pifer wrote in an email, "it has other tools, including political isolation and financial sanctions that could inflict serious pain on the Russian economy." Weiss, the Carnegie expert, argued that Russia and Syria represent vastly different situations. Russia is far more economically connected to the world than Syria, he said. And Putin is not accused of killing thousands of his people and displacing millions in a bid to hold onto power, like Assad. But Weiss said he was unsure that economic sanctions alone would stop the Russian leader. "He's thinking about things in a very shrewd, pure-power way. "What leverage do we have against Putin?" he asked. "That's why people are somewhat stumped about what to do." In the case of Iran, years of false claims from officials regarding its nuclear program finally prompted Europe to agree sweeping economic sanctions that rebounded on Europe more than on the United States. Barring a Russian military incursion deeper into Ukraine, "the Europeans are not willing to go farther," he said. "They're happy to compartmentalize and go back to business as usual." "THEY WANT IT MORE" Hill compared the current world today with the 19th century, when trade was vast but nations still clashed. "The world was incredibly connected," she said. "And it didn't produce any greater political outcomes. You remember a lot of gunboat diplomacy." She said that economic interdependence flows both ways. "There is mutual dependency here," she added. "There is mutual leverage. We can use it and they can use it." Experts said that for Putin, Crimea's port at Sevastopol was vital. In Egypt, Sisi believes he is fighting an existential threat with the Muslim Brotherhood. In Washington, American officials disagree over whether core American interests are at stake, and the autocrats know it. "There is a calculation there," Hamid said. "They know that they want it more than we do." (Edited by Sara Ledwith) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFrance's President Francois Hollande speaks after he recorded a speech to be broadcast on French television at the Elysee Palace in ParisPARIS (Reuters) - As President Francois Hollande goes through the French mid-term ritual of sacking his government and appointing a new one, promising a dynamic "fresh start" after a local election drubbing, Europe is left as usual waiting for France. Paris' partners in Berlin and Brussels are again wondering whether the French will ever keep their promises to the European Union to curb the budget deficit, reform a rigid economy and step up to the mantle of shared leadership of the euro zone. Don't hold your breath, seems to be Hollande's answer. The Socialist president coupled the appointment of business-friendly centrist Manuel Valls as prime minister on Monday with vague, contradictory promises on taxation and public spending in the euro zone's number two economy. He would cut payroll levies for employers, but also for employees. He would cut public spending but also reduce taxes by 2017 - the year when he may seek re-election - and he would also boost purchasing power to provide more social justice. Hollande put no numbers on those promises, but they would not seem to add up, so he dropped a strong hint that Paris would seek yet another delay in meeting its EU budget obligations. "The government will also have to convince Europe that this contribution by France to competitiveness, to growth, has to be taken into account in respecting our commitments," he said in an artfully ambiguous passage of his address to the nation. "Because reinforcing the French economy is the best way to change Europe's orientation." In other words, if France can boost sluggish growth by easing the tax burden on business and households, it may not get its budget deficit down below the EU treaty limit of 3 percent of gross domestic product in 2015 as promised, but Europe should be grateful anyway for its contribution to the economy. "TOTALLY USELESS" Hollande has courted new Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi as a partner in seeking to loosen the straitjacket of EU fiscal discipline in return for economic reforms to spur growth. The trouble is that Paris - with a history of non-compliance under conservative presidents Jacques Chirac and Nicolas Sarkozy - was granted two more years to get below the 3 percent target only last year. At the time, EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner Olli Rehn said France was expected in return to reform its labour market, pension system, unemployment insurance and regulated professions. Now, Hollande would seem to be demanding a further extension in exchange for easing the tax burden on business. Arnaud Montebourg, a left-wing Socialist critic of globalisation who was industry minister in the outgoing cabinet and is likely to be promoted, launched a pre-emptive strike on any EU criticism of French budget plans. "France has to find the ways and means to revive its economy within the European Union," Montebourg told France Inter radio on Tuesday. "This isn't France against Europe, because we are co-owners of Europe. The European Union is totally useless on the question of growth." The response from euro zone finance ministers, meeting in Athens on Tuesday, was swift. Both Rehn and Eurogroup chairman Jeroen Dijsselbloem said Paris had received more leeway and must meet its obligations. Failure to do so could lead to sanctions and eventually fines. "France is aware of its commitments, they were already given more time and more work needs to be done," Dijsselbloem said. Official figures released on Monday showed the French deficit strayed off target again last year, reaching 4.3 percent of GDP instead of the planned 4.1 percent, while government debt reached 93.5 percent of GDP and public spending accounted for an all-time record 57.3 percent of economic output. Europe's northern sticklers for fiscal rectitude, Germany, the Netherlands and Finland, have criticised Rehn for being a soft touch by granting an extension without up-front actions and enforceable commitments on those reforms. REALITY GAP There is a reality gap between the government's conviction that has implemented far-reaching reforms in labour contracts and pensions by negotiation with employers and unions without traditional French street protests, and the European perception that it has taken only timid half-measures insufficient to balance public finances or unleash entrepreneurship and job creation. European officials tend to roll their eyes when questioned about French reforms, or ask "What reforms?" Rehn upset Paris last year by coining the term "reform a la francaise" to describe an incomplete pension overhaul that made most employees work longer for a full pension, but added to the burden of labour costs. So far Hollande has mostly tried to narrow the fiscal gap by raising taxes rather than cutting spending. That will now change, he promised again on Monday. But while the president has "talked the talk", EU critics say he has yet to "walk the walk". Beyond dismay over half-hearted reforms and budget efforts, as well as persistent French traits of protectionism and state interventionism in industry, many European officials complain privately of France's striking absence from European leadership. "What we really need is for France to become France again," said a senior EU statesman, who spoke on condition of anonymity. After his election in 2012, Hollande was initially more willing than Sarkozy had been to stand up to German Chancellor Angela Merkel, arguing for a policy mix with more "solidarity" and less austerity imposed on bailed out euro zone countries. But France's own economic weakness compared to Germany, the absence of bold reforms and Hollande's reluctance to embrace any greater pooling of sovereignty over economic and fiscal policy in the single currency area have weakened Paris' voice. "The strength of each country and the personality of its leader depend very much on how it is seen to have accomplished its own homework," the senior figure said. "If France were seen as more successful in that, it would be more forceful." Officials who have attended meetings on European policy in Hollande's office say the president is wary of reviving splits in his Socialist party and the wider left over EU integration and national sovereignty. "When the issue of possible treaty change and sharing more sovereignty comes up, the president says he doesn't have an electoral mandate for that, and he doesn't want to split the left over Europe again," one participant said. "He's determined to avoid another referendum." The party was deeply divided by a 2005 plebiscite on a proposed European constitution. While Hollande was a leader of the "Yes" campaign, Valls, Montebourg and Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius were prominent in the "No" camp, which won. The EU has gained more supervisory powers over national budgets since then due to the euro zone debt crisis. With far right anti-European National Front leader Marine Le Pen gaining ground ahead of European Parliament elections next month, few mainstream politicians on either side of the spectrum are willing to argue for ceding more sovereignty to Brussels. One EU official lamented that waiting for Paris to live up to its European responsibilities was a bit like Samuel Beckett's play Waiting for Godot. "Godot never comes." (Additional reporting by Leigh Thomas; Writing by Paul Taylor; Editing by Giles Elgood) FREE AppDownload
An economy can't grow without demand for goods and services. In the wake of the financial crisis, one of the top concerns among businesses was poor sales (of these goods and services). Indeed, the National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB) monthly survey confirmed as much. But according to the NFIB, the percentage of businesses citing sales as the top concern has been tumbling since the crisis. Meanwhile, quality of labor has been becoming a growing concern, which is a sign of labor market tightness and a leading indicator of wage inflation. Deutsche Bank FREE AppDownload
MotorolaThe Moto GMotorola's Moto G smartphone has had a dramatic impact on the company's share of sales in the three months to the end of February, taking the Google subsidiary from almost zero to 6% of sales in the UK, according to new research. Kantar Worldpanel ComTech says that the Moto G was particularly popular with men aged 16-24 in "lower income" groups: 83% of buyers were male, and 40% have annual earnings of below £20,000. That suggests that Google's efforts to democratise the ownership of smartphones has been a significant success with the low-priced phone, which retailed sim-free for just £135 while garnering highly positive reviews. In the UK, smartphone ownership has now hit 70%, Kantar says, and smartphones make up 86% of phones sold - the latter statistic having stayed constant for about six months. Dominic Sunnebo, Kantar's global strategic insight director, said: “Consumers are far more tech savvy than they were just a few years ago and the rising commoditisation of smartphones means we increasingly rely on online views and handset cost to drive our decision making. "Some 40% of British consumers are heavily influenced by internet reviews when deciding which mobile to buy and 48% of Moto G sales were made online. With virtually no existing [Motorola] customers to sell to in Britain, the Moto G has stolen significant numbers of low-mid end customers from Samsung and Nokia Lumia.” Google is selling the Motorola subsidiary to China's Lenovo in the coming months. Lenovo will have to decide how far to subsidise prices of phones like the Moto G; Google recorded large losses on its Motorola operation of up to a billion dollars a quarter, suggesting that the phone's pricing is not sustainable on its own. Figures provided by Kantar suggest that sales share of the competing smartphone operating systems in the US, "EU5" countries (Germany, France, Italy, Spain and the UK) and UK has remained broadly unchanged over the past year. In the US, Android and iOS have 55% and 38.5% of sales share. In the EU, Android has just under 70% against iOS's 19% and in the UK, Android has about 54% and iOS 32%. However, there is little sign of Microsoft's Windows Phone making fresh inroads into those key markets. Although its share of sales has risen in all the key territories over the past year, it still remains in third place behind Apple's iPhone in every country for which Kantar provided data except Italy, where it has led the iPhone for sales since summer 2013. Meanwhile BlackBerry's share of sales continues to fall, registering under 1% in the US, Germany, Spain and Japan (in both of which it was less than 0.1%), China and Australia. Its highest share was in the UK, where it recorded 3.4% of sales - well behind Windows Phone, which recorded 10.1%. In the US, LG's high-end G2 helped it increase its share of sales, to 8%, making it the third largest handset maker in sales behind Apple and Samsung. Sunnebo noted that the G2 has scored extremely high in customer satisfaction ratings, at 9.2 out of 10 compared to 9.1 for Apple's iPhone 5S and 9.0 for Samsung's Galaxy Note 3. • "Market share"? "Installed base"? How to make sense of all the numbers that get thrown around This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk FREE AppDownload
Bill O'Reilly has had a change of heart.  One year after saying Tesla, which in its earliest years took Energy Department loans, had wasted taxpayer dollars, the Fox News host praised the electric car maker, picking up on a "60 Minutes" piece about the wild success of the firm. Calling it a "gamechanger," O'Reilly said Tesla is a model for the renewable energy movement that will help put pressure on traditional automakers to come up with cleaner, cheaper vehicles.  Thanks to StreetInsider for the tip:  Here's what he said: "I'll give you one concrete thing that all responsible people should be rooting for. On "60 Minutes" last night they reported on the Tesla electric car, which is a gamechanger. The car runs extremely, well looks good, and doesn't use gas — no gas at all. Now that car in the next few years could be available to millions, at a decent price." "So everybody on the planet should be rooting for Tesla — I mean everybody, even traditional car companies that will have to compete. If Telsa can make a clean car the entire automotive industry can. "Therefore the air cleaner everywhere, and our wallets, thicker. So let's get on it people!" "But there will be resistance. Many conservatives don't believe in global warming, and oppose alternative energy. I hope you guys rethink the energy part. I agree many in the green lobby are self righteous, arrogant, and dumb. But we'd all be better off if clean, cheap energy becomes the norm. And that's the truth." FREE AppDownload
AP Michigan Republican Rep. Dave Camp announced Monday he will not seek re-election this fall, paving the way for Rep. Paul Ryan, the 2012 Republican vice presidential nominee, to become perhaps the most powerful member of the House of Representatives. Ryan is the clear frontrunner to succeed Camp as chairman of the powerful Ways and Means Committee, where he would be in charge of policies governing Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security, and more. "Paul Ryan has always been the guy in the room pushing to get something done when the naysayers say, 'It can't be done,'" GOP strategist Kevin Madden, who worked on the Romney campaign, told Business Insider. "He's always been a solution-oriented legislator looking to tackle the big things. So whether it's tax reform or entitlement reform, you can count on Paul Ryan having a plan and pushing against the lethargy of the status quo." Rick Wilson, another GOP strategist, added: "Ryan will be a more powerful figure in that he's media-friendly, and has a very large, very smart, very considered set of ideas on the reform of entitlements specifically, and the budget process more generally." Many Hill observers expected Camp to retire, as he hadn't filed for re-election while the late-April deadline to do so neared. Camp's final major act as chair of the Ways and Means Committee was the introduction of a tax-code overhaul that, in an election year, produced grumbles from both sides of the political aisle. In addition to the bipartisan opposition to Camp's proposal, the odds of tax reform legislation succeeding this year decreased dramatically when Democratic Sen. Max Baucus, who worked on the proposal with Camp, left his position as the chair of the Senate Finance Committee to become the U.S. ambassador to China. Ryan, who is currently the chair of the House Budget Committee, will unveil the House Republican budget on Tuesday. The budget is expected to test GOP unity leading up to the midterm elections, as it will likely contain many of the more politically unpopular entitlement cuts to achieve a balanced budget in 10 years. If he does indeed win the chairmanship, Ryan's strong name recognition would instantly bring star power to the issues he'd take on as Ways and Means chair and even some Democrats are apparently eager for the possibility. "I’m excited by the prospect on many levels," one House Democratic aide told Business Insider. "I think he raises the profile of the committee in a major way. And it will put him in a position of having to put his money where his mouth is on many of the proposals he has been championing." The 60-year-old Camp's retirement will end a 24-year career in Congress, the last of which he spent as chair of Ways and Means following the Republican takeover of the House in 2011. In a statement, Camp said he would spend his remaining time in Congress redoubling his "efforts to grow our economy and expand opportunity for every American by fixing our broken tax code, permanently solving physician payments for seniors, strengthening the social safety net, and finding new markets for U.S. goods and services."   FREE AppDownload
That tax hike will hit just as Abenomics seems to be losing its mojo. Household spending dropped 2.5% y/y during February. Housing starts are down 12.9% over the past two months through February. Industrial production, which rose 10.3% y/y through January--partly on expectations that consumer spending might soar before the tax hike--dropped 2.3% m/m in February. On April 4 last year, the BOJ announced a plan to double the monetary base within two years: “Under this guideline, the monetary base--whose amount outstanding was 138 trillion yen at end-2012--is expected to reach 200 trillion yen at end-2013 and 270 trillion yen at end-2014.” In February, it was 210 trillion yen, suggesting a 29% increase by the end of the year. Yet, as I’ve been noting recently, there are mounting signs that this monetary “arrow” of Abenomics has been missing its mark. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Rookie Mistakes. (1) The bears made a rookie mistake. (2) QE has been tapered, not terminated. (3) Thanks again, Fairy Godmother! (4) Yellen and Reagan. (5) Unemployment gets personal for Yellen. (6) Did Yellen make a mistake at her first press conference? (7) Putting more weight on wage inflation. (8) Draghi’s problem is strong euro and low inflation. (9) ECB has to stop the talk, and walk the walk. (10) Repeating a rookie mistake in Japan. (11) Bad loans in China weigh on Financials sector. (12) A Tech bubble made in China. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
APGood morning! Here's what you need to know. China, landing. We got slightly divergent readings between the HSBC and official readings for China's purchasing manager's index. The former reading, which is skewed toward smaller firms, slipped further into contraction territory at 48 from 48.5. The latter, which is skewed toward larger state-owned firms, edged up 0.1 to 50.3. The conclusion is still pretty much the same: China is slowing. "The final reading of the HSBC China Manufacturing PMI in March confirmed the weakness of domestic demand conditions," HSBC economist Hongbin Qu said in a press release. "This implies that 1Q GDP growth is likely to have fallen below the annual growth target of 7.5%. We expect Beijing to fine-tune policy sooner rather than later to stabilise growth." Another GM recall. The automaker announced late Monday it was recalling an additional 1.3 vehicles, this time over a possible power steering system glitch. That brings its 2014 total recalled vehicles to 6.1 million. Mary Barra will testify before Congress Tuesday. Don't miss BI's Alex Davies on why GM's recalls are unlike any other.  FBI investigating high-frequency traders. The Wall Street Journal reported Monday afternoon that the FBI was investigating whether high-frequency traders are capitalizing on material non-public information. The report comes a day after Michael Lewis' appearance on "60 Minutes" in which the reporter contended HFTs had "rigged" markets. "Among the types of trading under scrutiny is the practice of placing a group of trades and then canceling them to create the false appearance of market activity. Such activity could be considered potential market manipulation by encouraging others to trade based on false orders."    Developed world inflation slows. Price growth among the OECD's 34 members slipped to 1.4% from 1.7% in January, raising fears the global economic recovery is losing momentum. "The continuing decline in the rate of inflation across developed countries will worry central bankers, since many regard annual price rises of 2% as consistent with healthy economic growth," WSJ's Paul Hannon wrote. "The decline in the inflation rate was driven by lower energy prices, while the core rate of inflation in the OECD—excluding energy and food—was unchanged at 1.6%." Busy day in data. We've already been getting global PMI. In the U.S., the day kicks off with auto sales figures. At 9:45 a.m., the U.S. learns its own PMI reading, expected to have climbed slightly. At 10 a.m. we get ISM manufacturing, expected to have declined slightly. Also at 10 a.m. we get construction spending. Markets. Stocks were up around the world, led by Hong Kong's Hang Seng at 1.34%. U.S. futures were higher. The euro climbed more than 40 bps against the yen. Eurozone production gains. Eurozone manufacturing data touched multi-year highs in several recent "basketcase" countries. At 55.5, Ireland PMI is at a 35-month high. At 52.8, Spain is at a 47-month high. And at 52.1, France is at a 33-month high. Greece has backslid to a 3-month low of 49.7. Europe labor woes. Eurozone unemployment came in at 11.9% in February, still close to record highs. "The social situation in the EU shows little signs of improvement: inequalities have risen and the situation of many households and individuals is not improving, with ever growing numbers suffering from financial distress," said László Andor, commissioner for employment, social affairs and inclusion according to the FT. "Divergence in employment and social outcomes remains pronounced between core and periphery countries in the EU, particularly in the eurozone." Japanese business confidence stalls. Ahead of a sales tax increase Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has included as part of his Abenomics package, Japanese business confidence climbed for a fifth-straight month to a reading of plus 17 in March but missed expectations for 18. UK's lopsided economy. British leaders keep vowing to rebalance the country's economy to put a greater emphasis on manufacturing and exports. There is yet very little sign this is happening, as UK PMI fell to an eight-month low at 55.3, down from 56.2.   FREE AppDownload
Library of CongressStock brokers working at the New York Stock Exchange in 1963One of the big challenges of investing these days is to avoid missing the forest for the trees. We are now barraged with so much daily market and economic information, at such a high decibel level, that it's easy to miss broader cyclical changes that occur over months and years. But these changes matter. So it's worth stepping back from time to time and looking at the big picture. I currently have a cautious view of the stock market. I think stocks are very expensive, and, as a result, are likely to deliver lousy returns over the next 7-10 years. My view that stocks are expensive is supported by this chart from John Hussman, which shows 7 valuation measures that have been highly predictive over the past century. (The left-hand scale shows the predicted 10-year return for stocks according to each valuation measure. This return is positive, at least. But crappy.) John Hussman, Hussman Funds Of course, as many of you have noted, observing that stocks are expensive tells you little about what stocks are going to do next — expensive markets can stay expensive. So it's also helpful to think about what might cause an expensive market to get less expensive (a.k.a., a "catalyst"). I think there are two potential catalysts that might cause our current expensive market to get less expensive: 1) A decline in profit margins from today's record-high levels, and 2) A change in the direction of Fed policy from easing to tightening On the profit margin side, have a glance at this chart of profits as a percent of the economy. Today's profit margins are the highest in history, by a mile. Note that, in every previous instance in which profit margins have reached extreme levels — high and low — they have subsequently reverted to (or beyond) the mean: Business Insider, St. Louis FedAfter-tax profits as a percent of GDP. Now, you can tell yourself stories about why, this time, profit margins have reached a "permanently high plateau" and will never again revert to the long-term mean (6% vs. today's 11%). And you might be right. But as you are telling yourself these stories, please recognize that the story you are really telling is called, "It's different this time." And "it's different this time" has been described as "the four most expensive words in the English language." And then there's Fed tightening. For the last 5 years, the Fed has been frantically pumping money into Wall Street, keeping interest rates low to encourage hedge funds and other investors to borrow and speculate. And this free money (and the resulting speculation) have helped drive stocks up to their current very-expensive levels. But now the Fed is starting to "take away the punch bowl," as Wall Street is fond of saying. Specifically, the Fed is beginning to reduce the amount of money that it is pumping into Wall Street. To be sure, for now, the Fed is still pumping oceans of money into Wall Street. But, in the past, it has been the change in direction of Fed money-pumping that has been important to the stock market, not the absolute level.  In the past, major changes in direction of Fed money-pumping have often been followed by changes in direction of stock prices. Not always. But often. Let's go to the history... Here's a look at the last 50 years. The blue line is the Fed Funds rate (a proxy for the level of Fed money-pumping.) The red line is the S&amp;P 500. We'll zoom in on specific periods in a moment, so don't squint. Just note that Fed policy goes through "tightening" and "easing" phases, just as stocks go through bull and bear markets. And sometimes these phases are correlated. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed Now, we'll zoom in. In many of these time periods, you'll see that sustained Fed tightening has often been followed by a decline in stock prices. Again, not always, but often. You'll also see that most major declines in stock prices over this period have been preceded by Fed tightening. Again, not all (the Crash of '87 was a notable exception.) But most. Here's the first period, 1964-1980. There were three big tightening phases during this period (blue line)...and three big stock drops (red line). Good correlation! Business Insider, St. Louis Fed Now 1975-1982, which overlaps a bit with the chart above. The Fed started tightening in 1976, at which point the market declined and then flattened for 4 years. Steeper tightening cycles in 1979 and 1980 were also followed by price drops. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed Focusing in on 1978-1990, we see the two drawdowns described above, as well as another tightening cycle followed by flattening stock prices in the late 1980s. (Here, we also see our first exception to the correlation... the 1987 crash was not preceded by (much) tightening! This is a good reminder that sometimes markets just crash.) Business Insider, St. Louis Fed And, lastly, 1990-2014. For those who want to believe that Fed tightening is irrelevant, there's good news here: A sharp tightening cycle in the mid-1990s did not lead to a crash! Alas, two other tightening cycles, one in 1999-2000 and the other from 2004-2007 were followed by major stock-market crashes. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed One of the oldest sayings on Wall Street is "Don't fight the Fed." This saying has meaning in both directions, when the Fed is easing and when it is tightening. A glance at these charts shows why. On the positive side, the Fed's tightening phases have often lasted a year or two before stock prices peaked and began to drop. So even if you're persuaded that sustained Fed tightening now will likely lead to a sharp stock-price pullback at some point, the bull market might still have a ways to run. But don't miss the forest for the trees! SEE ALSO: Anyone Who Thinks Stocks Will Go Up If The Economy Grows Should Read This Buffett Quote   FREE AppDownload
Flickr / GmanVizQuick heads up. A bunch of economic data is coming up in the US today. From Calculated Risk: • All day: Light vehicle sales for March. The consensus is for light vehicle sales to increase to 15.8 million SAAR in March (Seasonally Adjusted Annual Rate) from 15.3 million SAAR in February.• At 9:00 AM ET, the Markit US PMI Manufacturing Index for March.• At 10:00 AM, the ISM Manufacturing Index for March. The consensus is for an increase to 54.0 from 53.2 in February. The employment index was at 52.3%, and the new orders index was at 54.5%.• Also at 10:00 AM, Construction Spending for February. The consensus is for a 0.1% increase in construction spending. We'll be covering the numbers as they come out. FREE AppDownload
AFPCurrent tensions with Russia over Ukraine have turned the spotlight on Germany's heavy dependence on Russian gas and are pushing Europe's biggest economy to reconsider its entire energy policy. It is currently Germany's aim to be able to meet as much as 80 percent of its energy needs from renewable sources such as wind and solar power by 2050. The country is also committed to phasing out nuclear power completely over the next decade or so. And gas -- 35 percent of which Germany imports from Russia -- should act as a good stop-gap until the country's renewable capacity is fully in place. But with the crisis over Ukraine and the threat of a tit-for-tat battle of sanctions, Germany may have to reconsider its energy policy. Some, like the environmentalist Greens party, insist the country should step up its renewable drive while others insist that alternative sources of gas must be found. Last week, Chancellor Angela Merkel said the Ukraine crisis would lead to "a new look at energy policy as a whole." Some people have interpreted this seemingly anodyne remark as a hidden call to reconsider Germany's plans and targets for the energy transformation, formulated by Merkel herself three years ago. Others suggest that the remarks -- made in the presence of Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper -- could herald an about-face on the highly controversial technology of fracking. At a joint news conference, Harper said that Canada was prepared to export its natural gas. But that could prove problematic in a country where there is deep popular -- and political -- opposition to hydraulic fracturing for shale oil and gas. "If the chancellor is eyeing imports from North America, that would constitute a clear 'yes' to the use of fracking," said one of Merkel's former ministers, the conservative Peter Ramsauer. And "that, in turn, would beg the question, why not tap our own domestic resources," he said. With parliament yet to give its green light to the general use of fracking, the technology's advocates, above all industry, never tire in pointing to the comparatively high cost of energy in Europe. That, they argue, is due to the fact that fracking is not currently allowed. And they hope that the current debate over Germany's dependence on Russia gas will advance their cause. But Economy and Energy Minister Sigmar Gabriel and Environment Minister Barbara Hendricks, both centre-left Social Democrats, have firmly shut the door on such a prospect. "In no case do we want fracking," Hendricks said last week, while Gabriel suggested there was "no sensible alternative" to Russian gas. The issue is sufficiently important to be on the agenda of an energy summit on Tuesday evening between Merkel, Gabriel and the heads of Germany's 16 regional states. Berlin is counting on a deep reform of its system of subsidies for clean energy, currently the cornerstone of the country's energy transition. A corresponding draft law, one of Merkel's key projects during her third term in office, is to be approved by cabinet on April 9. But the draft has come under heavy scrutiny on the part of the regional states who take issue with subsidy cuts. "We mustn't expect all differences to be ironed out" on Tuesday, said Merkel's spokesman Steffen Seibert. Gabriel wants substantial reductions in subsidies for renewables, so as to bring down consumers' electricity bills. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Stephen Lam/ReutersSAN FRANCISCO (AP) — Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg reaped a $3.3 billion gain last year by exercising stock options in the social networking company that he founded in a Harvard University dorm room. The windfall saddled Zuckerberg with a huge tax bill, even though he limited his Facebook salary to just $1, according to regulatory documents filed Monday. It marks the second straight year that Zuckerberg has realized a huge gain on the holding that he has accumulated in Facebook Inc. since he started the company in 2004. In 2012, Zuckerberg made $2.3 billion off his stock options. Zuckerberg, 29, now has exhausted his supply of stock options after exercising 60 million of them last year a price of 6 cents per share. He then sold 41.35 million shares for $55.05 apiece in December, primarily to pay for his tax bill on the gains. Zuckerberg and his wife, Priscilla Chan, also donated 18 million Facebook shares to a Silicon Valley nonprofit. The December gift, then valued at nearly $1 billion, landed the couple at the top of The Chronicle of Philanthropy's annual list of the most generous Americans. Even after selling and donating so much Facebook stock, Zuckerberg still owns 426.3 million Facebook shares currently worth $25.7 billion. The stock has more than doubled in value during the past year as Zuckerberg fulfilled his promise to sell more ads on the smartphones and tablet computers that bring in most of the traffic to Facebook's social networking service. The Menlo Park, Calif., company now gets more than half of its ad revenue from mobile devices, up from 23 percent at the beginning of last year. Like many company founders who have gotten wealthy off their early stakes, Zuckerberg asked Facebook to limit his annual salary to $1 annually. Besides that token sum, Zuckerberg also received perquisites valued at $653,164. All but $3,000 of that amount went toward Zuckerberg's bills for personal travel on chartered jets. Excluding stock option gains, Zuckerberg's total compensation last year plunged 67 percent from nearly $2 million in 2012. The Associated Press formula calculates an executive's total compensation during the last fiscal year by adding salary, bonuses, perks, above-market interest that the company pays on deferred compensation and the estimated value of stock and stock options awarded during the year. The AP formula does not count changes in the present value of pensions, a benefit that Facebook and most other technology companies don't provide. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
ReutersMOSCOW (AP) — Russia on Tuesday sharply hiked the price for natural gas to Ukraine and threatened to reclaim billions previous discounts, raising the heat on its cash-strapped government, while Ukrainian police moved to disarm members of a radical nationalist group after a shooting spree in the capital. Alexei Miller, the head of Russia's state-controlled Gazprom natural gas giant, said Tuesday that the company has withdrawn December's discount that put the price of gas at $268.50 per 1,000 cubic meters and set the price at $385.50 per 1,000 cubic meters for the second quarter. The discount was part of a financial lifeline which Russian President Vladimir Putin offered to Ukraine's President, Viktor Yanukovych, after his decision to ditch a pact with the European Union in favor of closer ties with Moscow. The move fueled three months of protests which led Yanukovych to flee to Russia in February. Radical nationalist groups played a key role in Yanukovych's ouster, but they quickly fell out with the new government. Last week, one of the leaders of the most prominent radical group, the Right Sector, was shot dead while resisting police. Right Sector members then besieged parliament for several hours, breaking windows and demanding the resignation of Interior Minister Arsen Avakov. They lifted the blockade after lawmakers set up a panel to investigate the killing. Late Monday, a Right Sector member shot and wounded three people outside a restaurant adjacent to Kiev's main Independence Square, including a deputy city mayor, triggering a standoff that lasted overnight. Police responded by surrounding the downtown Dnipro Hotel, which Right Sector had commandeered as its headquarters, demanding that the radicals lay down their weapons and leave. Avakov said that Right Sector members got into buses Tuesday morning leaving their weapons behind and headed to a suburban camp under the escort of officers of Ukraine's Security Service. The Ukrainian parliament then voted to order police to disarm all illegal armed units. If police carry out the order, it would undermine Russia's key argument: the allegation that the new Ukrainian government was kowtowing to nationalist radicals, who threaten Russian-speakers in southeastern Ukraine. Russia has pointed at the perceived threat from ultranationalists to defend its annexation of Crimea, and has concentrated tens of thousands of troops along its border with Ukraine, drawing Western fears of an invasion. Putin and other officials have said that Russia has no intention of invading Ukraine. Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu insisted Tuesday that the Kremlin wants a "political settlement that would take into account interests and rights of the entire Ukrainian people" and had no intention to threaten Ukraine's statehood. At the same time, Russia has used financial levers to hit Ukraine that is teetering on the verge of bankruptcy. Gazprom's Miller said that the decision to charge a higher price in the second quarter was made because Ukraine has failed to pay off its debt for past supplies, which now stands at $1.7 billion. Preparing to further raise the heat on Kiev, the Russian parliament moved to annul agreements with Ukraine on Russia's navy base in Crimea. In 2010, Ukraine extended the lease of Russia's Black Sea Fleet's base until 2042 for an annual rent of $98 million and price discounts for Russian natural gas supplies. The lower house voted to repeal the deal Monday, and the upper house was to follow suit Tuesday. Russian Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev has said that Russia had given Ukraine $11 billion in gas discounts in advance and should claim the money back once the lease deal is repealed — a threat repeated Tuesday by Deputy Foreign Minister Grigory Karasin. Russia's relations with the West have plunged to their lowest level since the Cold War, with the United States and the European Union slapping Moscow with sanctions over its annexation of Crimea. Meanwhile, foreign ministers of Germany, Poland and France met in Weimar, Germany, to consult on the crisis in Ukraine ahead of a meeting with their NATO counterparts. ___ Leonard reported from Kiev. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
The Eurozone unemployment rate chart is still the ugliest chart in the world. There was some slight improvement in the last month... from 12% to 11.9%. But overall this is a terrible chart because it's been so bad for so long, without any real indication of improvement. Ever. Eurostat FREE AppDownload
MOSCOW (Reuters) - Russia plans to build an undersea gas pipeline to Crimea and could construct three power stations on the Black Sea peninsula following its annexation from Ukraine, Energy Minister Alexander Novak was on Tuesday quoted as saying. Novak told the Kommersant business newspaper the three power stations could have a total capacity of 1,320 megawatts, and the cost could be up to 100 billion rubles ($2.9 billion). The natural gas pipeline, which could cost up to 6 billion rubles to build, would have a capacity of up to 2 billion cubic meters a year, he said. An Energy Ministry spokeswoman confirmed Novak had made the comments to Kommersant. Novak also said Russian state gas company Gazprom would cover all the costs for the construction of the pipeline to Crimea, which has been annexed by Russia although the United Nations General Assembly has adopted a resolution declaring invalid the referendum that backed union with Russia. Gazprom will also take part in a tender on the privatization of local energy company Chernomorneftegaz, he added. An Energy Ministry spokeswoman confirmed Novak comments to Kommersant. Gazprom declined comment. Business daily Vedomosti daily quoted an unnamed Energy Ministry official as saying Gazprom could build a 400-km (250 mile) pipeline from the southern Russian city of Krasnodar to Sevastopol, Crimea's main city, with an annual capacity of 10 billion cubic meters. Vedomosti said another option for providing energy to Crimea was to lay a pipeline from Anapa, another southern Russian city. It said the cost of this project would be about $200-$300 million. ($1 = 35.1384 Russian Rubles) (Reporting by Vladimir Soldatkin, Editing by Timothy Heritage) FREE AppDownload
APWhile Putin creates a nightmare in Ukraine, at least his economy continues to go to crap. That's the message from the latest manufacturing PMI report for March, which shows continued shrinkage in the sector. Just read this commentary from HSBC's chief economist for Russia: “Business activity in manufacturing kept deteriorating at a marginally faster rate, the March HSBC Russia Manufacturing PMI survey revealed. As before, the deterioration was broad-based, reflected in all key business activity indexes. Notably, export demand shrank at the fastest rate since 2009. As a lead indicator, export demand predicts the likely continuation of contraction in manufacturing in the coming months. Structurally, growth in new demand and output was seen only in the consumer goods sector. At the same time, this sector has sharply increased its inventories, which is a negative signal for future business activity. “PMI Price Indexes are worth a special highlight this time. The Input Price Index jumped by almost 10 points to its highest level in three years. The Output Price Index has almost reached its three year maximum too, yet its value gain was less pronounced compared to the Input Price Index. Importantly, output price inflation was strongest in the consumer goods sector. Apparently, we observe a strong price action in the economy on the back of currency depreciation and fears of further depreciation down the road. Retail prices are still to follow the spike in producer prices, intensifying the pass-through effect from weaker rouble, we reckon. “Surging prices and contraction of business activity is an ugly mix for financial markets. From the monetary policy perspective, this mix requires a continuation of tight monetary policy, we think. Indeed, the apparently increased business uncertainty could hardly be reduced by lowering policy rates. At the same time, elevated interest rates should help in stabilizing the exchange rate and reducing depreciation and inflationary expectations.” Higher prices. Terrible demand. Russia's economy is going to crap. Here it is in chart form: Markit FREE AppDownload
The fates of various peripheral European economies continue to differ wildly in this post-crisis era. As we wrote earlier, Greece continues to show signs of deep weakness, with its March PMI manufacturing report already backsliding from a month earlier. The flipside is Spain, whose economy is on a gigantic tear. The chart is making a very nice V-formation, and the index is now at its highest level in nearly 4 years. Markit Within the survey, there was a sharp rise in New Orders, which also rose at their fastest pace in nearly four years. The situation in Spain is obviously different than Greece. It's also been more consistently strong than Italy, which is also rebounding, but not as steadily. FREE AppDownload
This morning we've been getting manufacturing data from across Europe. Here's a summary of it: Markit Overall it's a mixed bag, but the one country that's returned to contraction, unfortunately, is Greece, which only recently managed to return to growth and get a nostril above water. Here's a quick look at the Greek-specific report: Markit Of course it's just one month, but when you're coming off of such a depressed state as Greece, you want to see non-stop rebounding, not halting jagged moves that reverse once you start to see any gains. All of the internals were weak on this number, and manufacturers cited cash flow issues as being problematic in the month FREE AppDownload
Ryan Persie/Getty ImagesGood morning and Happy Q2! To start things off, markets are quite quiet. Asian markets weren't notable overnight. US futures aren't really doing anything. And European stocks are up a little bit. We're in the midst of receiving a fresh batch of PMI manufacturing data from all around the world. Europe's numbers have been steady, but unremarkable, with gains in Italy and France offsetting a slip in Germany. China's numbers were split, with the HSBC reading worse than the official reading. Later we'll get numbers for the US, which will of course be closely watched, and which of course we'll be covering live. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Masaharu HatanoTraders jostle to a trading counter at the Tokyo Stock Exchange February 1, 1994.Stock indices across Asia are advancing in Tuesday trading following a spate of mostly positive economic data releases in China and South Korea. Hong Kong's Hang Seng is up 1.0%, while the Shanghai Composite is up 0.7%. Japan's Nikkei 225 and Korea's KOSPI are both slightly higher, while the U.S. dollar is up slightly against the Japanese yen. China's official manufacturing Purchasing Managers Index unexpectedly advanced to 50.3 in March from February's 50.2 reading. Economists predicted the index would fall to 50.1. The HSBC China manufacturing PMI, on the other hand, fell to 48 from 48.5. "Today’s PMI data would come as a relief for policymakers, as it suggests that the economy is not slowing as quickly as the PMIs indicated earlier," say economists at Barclays. "Last week, Premier Li said that the government has policies ready to counter any volatility this year, as well as the capability to maintain growth in a reasonable range. To us, this suggests that the government is going to take more action to stabilise growth, a view we expressed following the release of much weaker-than-expected China data a couple of weeks ago." Also out Tuesday were monthly Korean trade data. Exports advanced 5.2% from a year earlier — above expectations for a 4.2% rise — while imports rose 3.6%, slightly above expectations for a 3.5% gain. Meanwhile, HSBC's Korea manufacturing PMI rose to 50.4 in March from 49.8 in February. "Korea's stronger manufacturing conditions in March show that its economy remains on track for a gradual recovery," said Ronald Man, an economist at HSBC, in the PMI release. "Economic growth is expected to be maintained in 1Q 2014, albeit a slower pace when compared with the previous quarter. One promising sign for the trade-dependent economy is stronger export orders from China, which is Korea's largest export market." Korea is known as the "economic canary in the coal mine" given its close ties with the Chinese economy. FREE AppDownload
