Thomson ReutersArgentina's President Fernandez speaks to supporters from a balcony inside the Casa Rosada Presidential Palace in Buenos AiresBUENOS AIRES (Reuters) - Argentina's President Cristina Fernandez took to Facebook on Saturday to rail against her country's holdout creditors, calling them greedy and bent on thwarting a solution in order to keep Argentina mired in debt. Fernandez' post on the social network was her government's latest acrimonious attack on the bondholders she calls "vultures" following the collapse of debt talks this week that sent Argentine bond prices tumbling. "The main thing with vulture funds is that they don't want a solution," Fernandez wrote on her Facebook page. "Not just out of greed and avarice but also because of a political and geopolitical decision of wanting to indebt Argentina again, and to destroy, in any way possible, the restructuring of sovereign debt." Argentina defaulted for the second time in 12 years on July 31 after losing a lengthy legal battle with hedge funds demanding full payment on debt they own that stems from the country's record $100 billion default in 2002. Prospects for a private sector solution to the dispute worsened on Wednesday after holdout investors said they entertained no realistic offers from bankers for a chunk of the debt. One of the leading holdout creditors, Aurelius Capital Management, said on Wednesday that there was "no realistic prospect" of a private deal and that Argentina's economy would suffer because of it. Fernandez called Aurelius' comments "threatening and hurtful to national sovereignty." "This is a threat against all Argentines," she said. Fernandez' defiant stance on the funds has won growing support among Argentines, opinion polls show. Many Argentines side with their government against hedge funds that rejected the country's debt restructurings in 2005 and 2010 in which bond holders received less than 30 cents on the dollar.  (Reporting by Jorge Otaola; Editing by Eric Walsh) FREE AppDownload
Supercenters are on the decline as shoppers seek out smaller, more convenient stores. Wal-mart said yesterday that sales at U.S. mega-stores have been falling. But there's still a bright spot in its business — the Neighborhood Market concept.  Sales at the markets were up an impressive 5.6%.  "I think convenience is where the consumers have been looking, [especially] if you look at the Baby Boomers," Wal-Mart CFO Charles Holley said on a call with reporters Thursday. Wal-Mart has about 400 Neighborhood Markets, compared with more than 3,300 Supercenters, notes Kyle Stock at Bloomberg Businessweek. The average store is about 20% the size of a Supercenter.  Big box stores are becoming irrelevant as Americans downsize and purchase big-ticket items like furniture and televisions online.  Wal-Mart's marketplace concept focuses heavily on fresh produce and groceries. While traditional Wal-Mart stores are situated on large patches of land, the Neighborhood Markets are primarily in urban areas.  Wal-Mart shared some photos of its new concept. Chances are, one will be coming to a neighborhood near you in the future.  Here's a Neighborhood Market in California. Note how the store closely resembles a Whole Foods Market.  Wal-Mart Here's a more urban location, in Chicago.  Wal-Mart The Neighborhood Market includes ample "healthy" displays. Wal-Mart There's also an emphasis on local and organic produce.  Wal-Mart Wal-Mart is expanding the concept to more markets.  Wal-Mart FREE AppDownload
SodaStream helps you make seltzer water and soda right at home. It's all the rage right now, and it's supposed to be easier on the environment and better for the consumer. What we really want to know, though, is how the taste of SodaStream sodas compares to that of brand-name products. So we got a bunch of our co-workers  involved in a taste test comparing the SodaStream Cola against Coca-Cola.  Produced by Will Wei. Additional Camera by Justin Gmoser. Follow BI VIDEO: On Facebook
When considering a good read, not everyone reaches for a work of fiction. True stories can be equally riveting, and often just as difficult to put down. With this in mind, our friends at the New York Public Library helped us put together a list of the five best nonfiction books that will have you at the edge of your seat. All the books on this list were finalists for the New York Public Library's 2014 Helen Bernstein Book Award for Excellence in Journalism. Amazon A former Associated Press reporter, Katz was living and working as the only full-time American news correspondent in Haiti when the 2010 earthquake took out his home, along with thousands of others. Heartfelt and political, "The Big Truck That Went By" is his firsthand account of what he considers an unfulfilled relief effort from the deadliest quake to ever hit the Western hemisphere. Buy the book here » Amazon Fink's Pulitzer Prize-winning book details some of the first five days immediately after Hurricane Katrina ripped through New Orleans. Fink's background as both a reporter and physician fuels her narrative as we witness the death and devastation through her eyes. Buy the book here » Kaplan writes the thrilling true story of how former CIA Director David Petraeus led a small group of soldier-scholars to revolutionize one of the oldest American institutions — the military — in the middle of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. Kaplan gives us access to emails, confidential files and documents to piece together the retired Army general's influence in the way the U.S. military looks today. Buy the book here »   Amazon A MacArthur fellow and Washington Post journalist, Finkel takes an in-depth look at some of the psychological issues, including PTSD, that plagued many of his fellow battalion members after returning from service in the Iraq war. A sequel, if you will, to his book "The Good Soldiers," "Thank You for Your Service," Finkel presents snapshots of his battalion mates post-service, their day-to-day lives, and how their service has affected their lives and loved ones. Buy the book here »   Amazon Winner of the 2014 Helen Bernstein Book Award for Excellence in Journalism, "Toms River" is a detective story of decades of industrial pollution in a Jersey Shore town. With vivid descriptions of time, place, and the people involved, Fagin sheds light on the legal settlement that resulted from the disregard for what years of negligence has on an urban ecosystem. Buy the book here » FREE AppDownload
1987 was a bad year for music — think Jefferson Starship and Wang Chung, but an even worse year for stocks. Between Oct. 1 and Dec. 31, the Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 27%, including the infamous "Black Monday" drop on Oct. 19 of more than 500 points.  The only solace was the correction wasn't completely related to movement in the broader economy. And the rebound in markets was relatively swift. In an interview on Bloomberg's "Market Makers" Friday, Passport Capital's John Burbank said he sees a liquidity problem in today's markets that could lead to a correction like the one we saw 27 years ago. "I'm very bullish about the companies, U.S. companies," he said. "I'm bullish about many different sectors, but I'm very bearish actually about liquidity because we're in a tightening environment. We have bad liquidity in the marketplace. Strange environment." Bloomberg's Erik Schatzker then asked what would happen if investors decide the stock market has been mispriced. Here's Burbank's response, via a Bloomberg transcript: It could fall fast. But we also have a phenomenon of sovereign wealth funds out there at a size and an investment rate with – with alternatives in bonds yielding so little that we don't really know what's going to happen. If I had to say the possibility of anything, there's the possibility of a more like 1987 dislocation that doesn't actually reflect economic – long-term economic distress, but could reflect illiquidity in the market in the temporary condition. It's funny. The market's at a point like 2000, 2007 where you presume valuation, the rise, the steepness of the rise in equities with – and also seven years later, you’d presume a fall. But  I don't see the suddenly weak economy. It's already not that great. Watch the full clip below:  FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Kevin DooleyHave you been following the news in the financial markets lately? If so, then you’ve probably read stories like this one that say the stock market is due to have a correction or crash anytime now. I get it. Headlines generate excitement, fear, and traffic for the websites. However, these stories predicting a long term bull market, an impending correction or stock market crash should largely be ignored. The problem is, I constantly see stories predicting the next market downturn. I bet you do, too. Unfortunately, most people don’t stick to their investment plans and eventually give in and listen to these crazy people. Why? Because if you hear something enough, you begin to believe it is true. So, why do these stories not matter? Why should you ignore them? If stocks plummeted tomorrow, it wouldn’t affect my strategy — and it shouldn’t affect your strategy, either. Why? Because you should have your investments set up in a way that matches your risk tolerance. If you’d sell your investments if your portfolio went down 50%, then your investments shouldn’t be 100% in stocks. Think of it this way, if you had only 50% of your portfolio in stocks and stocks went down 50%, your total portfolio would only go down 25% if nothing else changed. If you only had 10% of your portfolio in stocks, your total portfolio would only go down 5%. However, if you had 100% of your portfolio in stocks, your total portfolio would drop by the whole 50%. You should have your investment portfolio set up so that you won’t likely experience losses that go beyond the pain point that would make you deviate from your investment strategy. If you do this, then short term stock drops won’t matter. All that matters is the long run. I’m a long term investor and my retirement is decades away. While no one can predict the future, history has shown that whenever stock prices as a investment class go down, they eventually recover over time. Due to the fact I’m a long term investor, I have options short term investors don’t. Whenever stocks drop I look at it as an opportunity to buy more shares on sale because in the long run, stocks have always recovered. Why would long term investors be scared of a drop in stock prices when in reality stocks are just on sale? In fact, I might even put more money in the stock market if it drops 50% in a short period of time. The real reason why what the stock market does in the short run is irrelevant is the fact that you shouldn’t have your short term money invested in the stock market. We do know that historically that the stock market can crash and a significant amount of wealth can disappear in a short time period. For that reason, never lock up money in the stock market you can’t afford to wait to withdraw. If you keep enough money in cash or other less volatile assets to hold you over until the stock market recovers, it will be much easier to ride the roller coaster. Since I already have my short term money, my emergency fund, I don’t have to worry about my long term investments. If they crash 50% tomorrow, I wouldn’t care, and you shouldn’t either. Have the right asset allocation and stick to your investment strategy and you’ll be doing much better than the average American investor. FREE AppDownload
Almost no one knows how to fold a fitted sheet properly. Impress your friends and loved ones right away by learning how to fold a fitted sheet perfectly. Produced by Will Wei. Additional camera by Matt Johnston. Follow BI Video: On Twitter
REUTERS/Max RossiRetail sales jobs are disappearing, according to Wells Fargo analysts.  "While we do not expect to see 'the death of the salesman,' there are clear signs that these positions are becoming much scarcer," analysts wrote in a recent note.  Department stores, where 58% of the employees work in sales, are struggling. They cut their workforce by 300,000 positions between 2002 and 2013, according to the note. 63% of the fired employees were in sales.  Meanwhile, employment within the "electronic shopping sector," which includes online retailers, rose more than 30% over the same time period. With the rise of e-commerce, demand will grow for a new kind of retail worker. "The increasing importance of e-commerce implies that a much different skill set will be required for the retail employees of tomorrow," analysts wrote. "Positions such as data analysis and consumer insight specialists that study e-commerce transactions across product types will continue to become more commonplace." These new positions will require a "higher degree of training and technical competency than in the past, which will also contribute to the changing face of retail." The chart below illustrates the composition of the workforce for online retailers versus department stores.  Wells Fargo FREE AppDownload
Facebook/SwordandPloughSword & Plough makes wearable goods out of recycled materials from the U.S. military.Many companies make it a priority to give back to their communities, whether it's a core part of their missions or not. This year we've seen many companies go above and beyond to protect the environment, help the less fortunate, and solve some of the world's biggest problems. We found 20 of the most inspiring companies based on their actions for good this year. These inspiring institutions, listed alphabetically, are role models for their efforts in social responsibility. FREE AppDownload
The pour-over coffee is one of the freshest brews around, and it's popularity is rapidly growing despite its higher cost and longer brew time. Produced by Sam Rega. Additional camera by Graham Flanagan. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
International Mathematical Union2014 Fields Medal Winner Maryam Mirzakhani This is a particularly historic moment, since Mirzakhani is the first woman to win a Fields Medal. Here's what she did to be recognized as one of the greatest young mathematicians in the world. Mirzakhani's research is based on compact Riemann surfaces. These are geometric structures constructed by cleverly stretching, bending, and gluing together parts of the complex number plane: the geometric representation of the complex numbers, made up of sums of real and imaginary numbers. The imaginary numbers are represented as multiples of the square root of -1, written as i. By Volha Baranouskaya, via Wikimedia CommonsThe complex plane. Imagine taking the plane, and rolling it up like a rug along the vertical imaginary axis, so that each point in the grid with a given real part is touching all the points with the same real part, but different integer imaginary parts. 1+i gets "glued" to 1+2i, 1+3i, 1+4i, and so on. After we've rolled up our plane in this way, we end up with a cylindrical tube. Now, we can repeat this process, rolling up our tube along the horizontal axis just as we did above, gluing together points that have the same imaginary part. At the end of this process, we get a torus, or something that looks like a donut: one of our Riemann surfaces. Wikimedia CommonsA torus. A classic result from topology shows that there are only a few options for the overall global structure of surfaces: a sphere, a bunch of donuts glued together, or a bunch of things that look like Mobius strips glued together. These structures can be twisted and stretched in many different kinds of ways. That last group of surfaces, made up of Mobius strips, is extremely peculiar: they don't have well defined "inside" or "outside" areas the way spheres and toruses do, they can't be represented in three-dimensional space without getting jumbled up with themselves, and it's possible to walk all the way around such a surface and come back to your starting point with your left and right sides reversed.  When we take the complex plane or part of the complex plane and stretch and glue it together to make a Riemann surface, we get something that looks like one of those first three types of surfaces: a sphere, a torus, or a bunch of toruses glued together, like the double torus. Oleg Alexandrov/Wikimedia CommonsA double torus, or two donuts glued together. In the most interesting cases, when we're working with a surface that has a broad structure of two or more donuts glued together, these geometries take on a non-Euclidean hyperbolic nature, in which strange things happen. In the usual, flat plane, if you have a line and a point not on that line, there is exactly one line going through the point that is parallel to the original line. In a hyperbolic space, there are infinitely many parallel lines. Triangles on a hyperbolic plane have angles that add up to less than 180°. On a hyperbolic surface, we don't have straight lines, given the curvature of the surface. Instead, geometers consider "geodesics" when working in a non-Euclidian space. Geodesics are the natural analogue of lines: just as a line segment in a plane is the shortest path between two points, a geodesic on a Riemann surface is the curve with the shortest hyperbolic length between two points on the surface. Mirzakhani's doctoral research focused on a counting problem involving a special type of geodesic on Riemann surfaces. Because of the compact closed nature of surfaces, geodesics can sometimes loop around the surface and come back to their starting point, and these are called closed geodesics. Closed geodesics that don't intersect themselves while tracing their path around the surface are called simple closed geodesics. Mathematicians like counting things, and so Mirzakhani's doctoral thesis answered the question "how many simple closed geodesics shorter than some given length can there be on a particular Riemann surface?" Mirzakhani found a formula, based on the given length, that says roughly how many curves of this type can be on a particular surface. What's truly amazing about her research is how she went about finding that formula. As mentioned above, the interesting hyperbolic Riemann surfaces all have a broad global structure that looks like some number of toruses or donuts glued together. It's possible to take two surfaces made out of the same number of donuts and deform by pulling or stretching on one surface to get the other surface, and so these surfaces are in some way related to each other. The number of donuts a surface is made out of is called the genus of the surface. Another thing mathematicians like doing is taking a collection of mathematical structures that are related to each other, like Riemann surfaces of the same genus, and turning that collection into a mathematical structure on its own. If we take all the Riemann surfaces of a particular genus, view those as points, and then define the "distance" between two surfaces to be, very roughly and loosely speaking, based on how much we have to do to stretch one surface to turn it into the other, we get a geometry of sorts on the entire collection of surfaces, called a moduli space. Moduli spaces have extremely complicated and strange geometries, and mathematicians are still far from a full understanding of them. Mirzakhani, however, was able to use that strange geometry to answer her counting question. She showed that certain types of volume measurements in moduli spaces are related to the number of simple closed geodesics on a particular space. What's remarkable about Mirzakhani's work is that she's answering a question about a particular surface by looking at the moduli space of all surfaces. As the International Mathematical Union puts it in their press release on Mirzakhani's award, while the number of these special curves "is a statement about a single, though arbitrary, hyperbolic structure on a surface, Mirzakhani proved it by considering all such structures simultaneously" by looking at the geometry of moduli spaces. Mirzakhani's later and current work goes into the structure of moduli space itself. She has solved similar kinds of counting problems involving geodesics, not on a particular surface, but within the complicated geometry of moduli space itself. Her work also involves various links between geodesics in moduli space and certain problems in the field of dynamical systems, in which mathematicians study how a system evolves in either an orderly or chaotic fashion.  Few mathematicians have been able to directly attack problems within the strange realm of moduli space with the same skill as Mirzakhani, and her Fields Medal testifies to her abilities in this largely unexplored area. For more detail, check out the International Mathematical Union's press release here.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe Deloitte Company logo is seen on a commercial tower at Gurgaon, on the outskirts of New Delhi(Reuters) - Deloitte LLP's Chief Executive Officer Joe Echevarria plans to retire later this month to follow his interest in public service, the accounting and consulting firm said on Friday. Deloitte's board has named Chief Financial Officer Frank Friedman as the CEO pending completion of a formal leadership election, which is under way. Echevarria, who joined Deloitte in 1978 and became the CEO in 2011, said, "I have determined that this is the right time in my life to pursue my passion for public service. "Given my roots, inner-city Hispanic from the South Bronx - I am especially looking forward to continuing my role as co-chair with" former basketball star Earvin "Magic" Johnson on "the My Brother's Keeper Initiative, which is focused on helping boys and young men of color succeed." President Barack Obama launched My Brother's Keeper this year to improve health, education and employment opportunities for black and Latino boys and young men. Under this initiative, the president asked leading U.S. foundations and corporations to partner with school districts, for example, to help these boys stay in school and get job training. Echevarria also serves on the President's Export Council, the main national advisory committee on international trade, according to his bio on Deloitte's website. In 2013, he was a member of the Presidential Council on Election Administration. Deloitte LLP is the member firm of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited, a UK private company. Subsidiaries of Deloitte LLP include audit firm Deloitte &amp; Touche LLP [DLTE.UL].   (Reporting by Lehar Maan in Bangalore; Editing by Jan Paschal) FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsNEW YORK (Reuters) - As headlines about an apparent escalation of the conflict in eastern Ukraine hit traders' screens, selling was the word on Wall Street. Once again, though, for many it looked like nothing but another buying opportunity in U.S. stocks. Benchmark U.S. Treasury yields hit their lowest in 14 months on Friday after Ukraine said its forces had attacked and partly destroyed a Russian armored column that entered Ukrainian territory overnight. The S&amp;P 500 &lt;.SPX&gt; ended Friday down a mere fraction of a point. The three major U.S. stock indexes posted a second straight week of gains after a correction that evaporated following a brief drop of 4 percent. An escalation of the conflict in eastern Ukraine will likely bring stronger economic sanctions against Russia from Europe and the United States - and harsher retaliation from Moscow. Business sentiment is already on edge in Germany as Europe's largest economy deals with reduced trade with Russia. An index of Russian equities &lt;.MCX&gt; has dropped 6 percent for the year so far. Against that backdrop, U.S. stocks - backed by earnings - still look like the best option for investors in developed markets. U.S.-based stock funds that invest in European equities have marked nine straight weeks of outflows, according to Lipper, a Thomson Reuters company. Flows into U.S. stock funds in that time have come to about $3 billion. "If you're concerned about increased tension in Ukraine, that's the trade - at least for now," said Art Hogan, chief market strategist at Wunderlich Securities in New York. "We are the cleanest shirt in the hamper," he said of the U.S. stock market. During the selloff on Friday, the utilities sector remained strong, rivaled only by energy stocks, with investors focusing on high-dividend payers as U.S. Treasury bond yields fell. Looking forward, though, unless something else happens to upset markets, investors seem more focused on the re-emergence of leadership from the healthcare, biotechnology and tech sectors. The Nasdaq Biotech Index &lt;.NBI&gt; ended Friday up 0.9 percent, gaining 4.6 percent for the week. Brian Reynolds, chief market strategist at Rosenblatt Securities in New York, believes tech, healthcare and large-cap biotechs are in position to lead the U.S. stock market higher for the next several weeks. He sees the S&amp;P 500 rising on Monday if tensions do not become worse. "If Russia does not escalate, stocks are likely to open above the 1,960 they were at earlier today as people who put on knee-jerk shorts cover," he wrote late on Friday. At a 4.6 percent rate, revenue growth for S&amp;P 500 companies is expected to be higher than estimates going back to October last year. Even as economic figures remain somewhat mixed, investors still remain positive about overall U.S. demand. "These are horrible human tragedies and that's worthy of mention every time this comes up," said Lawrence Creatura, portfolio manager at Federated Investors in Rochester, New York. "However, the economic impact (in the United States) has been small."   (Reporting by Rodrigo Campos; Additional reoporting by Akane Otani and Caroline Valetkevitch; Editing by Jan Paschal) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA truck transports bottles from the Coca-Cola company on the outskirts of MoscowNEW YORK (Reuters) - Coca-Cola Co's &lt;ko.n&gt; $2.15 billion wager on a stake in Monster Beverage Corp &lt;mnst.o&gt; highlights the growth-starved soft drink company's embrace of deals that fall short of a full-blown merger and acquisition but allow it to test-drive potentially risky targets. The world's largest soda maker said Thursday that it was buying a 16.7 percent stake in Monster. Coke will get two directors on Monster's board as well as Monster's non-energy brands, such as Hansen's Natural Sodas and Peace Tea. Monster will get Coke's energy brands, which include NOS and Full Throttle, as well as access to Coke's extensive distribution system. Taking a minority stake instead of acquiring Monster outright gives Coke the opportunity to get the perks of being in a $27 billion global energy drinks market without taking on the financial and public relations risks that come with the controversial category, analysts said. If the deal closes as expected, Coke will distribute energy drinks but will not actually own them anymore. One advantage for Coke is that deal involves less cash upfront than a full-on acquisition, which would have been at least $12 billion at Thursday's closing stock price. That is roughly equivalent to the amount of cash Coke had in hand at the end of July. "A couple of billion is something that Coke could handle without much difficulty," said Linda Montag, senior vice president at Moody's Investors Service. Also, the gradualist approach allows Coke to sample at a distance a market in which it has a small presence and thus limited experience, with both the risks and rewards. The category enjoyed double-digit global growth in the mid-2000s, but as of late that has slowed. According to Euromonitor International, energy drink sales increased 7 percent in 2013 from the previous year. There are other hazards with which Coke may want to get more familiar before doing a full deal. Energy drinks have been wrought with controversy in both the United States and international markets. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration said in 2012 that it was probing five deaths possibly linked to Monster Energy. The agency says it is still studying energy drinks but has not taken any action so far. Earlier this year, Lithuania banned the sale of high-caffeine drinks to minors, raising the question of whether other countries could follow its lead. A Coke spokesman said Friday that the company has done its due diligence in evaluating Monster's legal proceedings. The deal notably keeps Coke at an arm's length from any future public relations battles facing the energy drinks industry. "This is a category that faces ongoing scrutiny, fair or not," said Stephen Powers, an analyst at UBS. "Coke has always been wary of that because they face a lot of scrutiny themselves." A deal between Coke and Monster has been speculated about for years. Coke shares were up 2 percent at $40.93 in Friday's trading while Monster's surged 30 percent to $93.07. Indeed, a cautious approach does not necessarily mean the company is shutting the door on owning Monster some day. The company made investments in both Honest Tea and Zico Beverages, the maker of coconut water, before eventually buying them. It could be pursuing a similar strategy with Keurig Green Mountain Inc &lt;gmcr.o&gt;: Coke bought a 10 percent stake in the single-service coffee brewing company earlier this year and raised it to 16 percent in May, making it Keurig's largest shareholder. "This seems to be an evolving and accepted method for Coke to diversify and do it in baby steps before they go all in," Powers said.   (Reporting by Anjali Athavaley; Editing by Lisa Shumaker) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA banner for American International Group Inc hangs on the facade of the New York Stock ExchangeWASHINGTON (Reuters) - Insurer American International Group &lt;aig.n&gt; is ramping up its lobbying team in Washington, almost six years after it halted such efforts following its rescue by the U.S. government during the financial crisis. Many large companies deploy a handful of staff to provide access to Capitol Hill and the White House, but AIG has employed no officially registered lobbyists since 2009. Some of its government relations positions in Washington, which companies typically use to influence policymaking by regulators and other government officials, have been left vacant. Yet in May of this year, Lauren Scott started working as AIG's director for international regulatory and government affairs in Washington, according to her LinkedIn profile. She was previously a director of international and insurance regulation at the American Council of Life Insurers, a trade group. That follows the arrival in February of Mary Frances Monroe - a former Federal Reserve supervisor who worked for a Washington consultancy firm - as AIG's head of international regulatory in February, also according to LinkedIn. Scott and Monroe did not respond to requests for comment. AIG declined to comment. The lobbying build-up comes at a critical time for the insurer, which has been subject to new supervision by the Federal Reserve after it was designated as a "systemically important" firm by a top U.S. regulatory panel. It is not clear whether the two will officially register as lobbyists, something that anyone spending more than 20 percent of their working hours on influencing senior U.S. policymakers needs to do. It is also unclear how much of their work is domestic, and how much focused on international lobbying. Monroe worked as a registered lobbyist in a previous position, but Scott did not, according to official records. The company said in October 2008 it would stop lobbying. It had faced public criticism when it continued to spend heavily to influence lawmakers despite receiving a $182 billion bailout that gave the government a majority stake, and because it continued to pay staff big bonuses. The company, which says it has customers in more than 130 countries and jurisdictions, almost collapsed when a little-known London unit, AIG Financial Products, racked up colossal losses through complex derivative transactions it had engaged in. But it is now slowly returning to normal, and has repaid the bailout funds to the government. AIG's shares still linger at a fraction of where they were before the crisis, but it has resolved litigation and streamlined the business, and the company's second-quarter profit beat expectations earlier this month.    The Financial Stability Oversight Council, which brings together all the key U.S. financial regulators and is chaired by Treasury Secretary Jack Lew, has designated AIG and one other insurer, Prudential &lt;pru.n&gt;, as systemically important, and is considering doing the same with MetLife Inc &lt;met.n&gt;. While AIG did not fight its designation, the insurance industry is trying to convince Congress to ease a provision in the 2010 Dodd-Frank financial reform law that applies strict bank capital standards to "systemically important" insurers. They argue the bank-specific approach is a bad fit for insurers' distinct business model.     RAMPING UP AIG spent $11 million on lobbying Congress in both 2007 and 2008 - putting it among top spenders of that period, along with other major companies such as General Electric &lt;ge.n&gt; and Exxon Mobil &lt;xom.n&gt; - but it quickly pulled back after that, and it did not spend at all in either 2010 or 2011, official records show. In 2012, it started spending again -- paying $120,000 for the services of law firm Patton Boggs when AIG was selling a majority stake in one of its units. In 2013, it spent $140,000, and so far this year $80,000 with the same firm, now called Squire Patton Boggs, or with Ernst &amp; Young, according to the Senate lobbying database. Its Political Action Committee, or PAC - a fund to donate to election campaigns - donated $337,358 in 2008, with politicians on both sides of the aisle benefiting, but the organization has been dormant after 2010. However, AIG in a recent job advertisement was looking to hire someone to perform "day-to-day AIG PAC activities", to coordinate with fundraising committees for candidates, and to "assist with planning AIG PAC events" - a sign that it may be planning to make political donations again.   (Reporting by Douwe Miedema, additional reporting by Sarah Lynch; Editing by Karey Van Hall and Martin Howell) FREE AppDownload
