The general trend of blah/negative Asian markets continues. After falling sharply yesterday, Japan is slipping a bit in early action today. Bloomberg FREE AppDownload
AmazonWe asked some of our favorite analysts, traders, and economists across Wall Street for the best books they read over the past year. The responses vary — from works of fiction to nonfiction titles, both new and old. Some deal with finance, but most don't, at least directly. FREE AppDownload
Janet Yellen has been confirmed by the U.S. Senate to become the next chair of the Federal Reserve. It goes without saying that she has a challenging job ahead of her. But among other things, she might get tested by the market, which is driven by the short-term madness of traders and everyday investors. UBS has a chart that shows that each of the last four Fed chairs experienced the same initial market reaction at the beginning of their tenures. Gold outperformed stocks. Traditionally, gold has been seen as a safe haven for worried investors while stocks have been the asset class of choice for risk takers. Basically, this means there's a heightened feeling of uncertainty when someone new takes the helm at the Fed. Last year, gold fell 28% as the S&amp;P 500 surged 30%.  Some believe that the markets are already set for some reversal. Will Yellen be faced with the same market test as her for predecessors? UBS FREE AppDownload
REUTERSPresident Clinton is applauded by members of his White House staff engaged in budget negotiations in the White House Rose Garden (May 16, 1997). UPDATE: The U.S. Senate confirmed Janet Yellen to become the 15th chair of the Federal Reserve on Monday, Dec. 6, 2014. It's looking increasingly likely that Ben Bernanke will no longer be the Chairman of the Federal Reserve at this time next year. In an interview Monday, President Obama said Bernanke has "already stayed a lot longer than he wanted or he was supposed to." When asked about his intentions regarding plans for the future, Bernanke has not said much, though the Fed chairman has decided to skip this year's Jackson Hole summit of world central bankers in August, where he would normally be responsible for delivering the keynote address. In recent years, the Jackson Hole keynote has been an important stage for signaling big shifts in U.S. monetary policy, a key driver of economic dynamics not only in America, but around the world. This year, the most important signal from the keynote may not be in the contents of the speech, but in who is delivering it in Bernanke's place: Federal Reserve Vice Chairwoman Janet Yellen, who is widely tipped as the frontrunner to replace Bernanke when his term expires in January. If Obama does select Yellen to replace Bernanke, she will become the first woman ever to chair the Federal Reserve, putting her in arguably the most powerful policy-making role in the world. And of course, unless you follow the Fed, you've probably never heard of her. (Global financial markets have reinforced the notion that the Fed chair is all-powerful in recent weeks: as fears that the Fed will begin slowing the pace of its monetary stimulus have seeped into the marketplace, U.S. government debt has sold off dramatically, causing major reverberations in virtually every market around the world. Because U.S. monetary policy is so influential, economist David Beckworth, for example, has referred to the Fed as a "monetary superpower.") By every account, Yellen is a thoughtful and brilliant economist, which has allowed her to rise to where she is today. "Ms. Yellen climbed the Fed ranks by being methodical rather than iconoclastic," writes Wall Street Journal reporter Jon Hilsenrath in a recent profile of the Fed vice-chairman. "She shows up at policy meetings with carefully crafted statements. Those who work with her say she arrives at the airport hours early." "[Yellen] is very low-key, but impresses people quickly with the depth of her understanding and the sincerity of her views," said fellow Berkeley professor Andrew Rose in 1994, describing her as "collegial, persuasive and effective." She has also worked with the academic elite of the economics sphere her entire career. Her mentor at Yale, where she received her Ph.D. in 1971, was Nobel-Prize winning economist James Tobin, whose legacy is enshrined in today's economics textbooks. After graduating from Yale, she taught at Harvard for five years. Then, she did a two-year stint (1976-1978) as a staff economist at the Federal Reserve, where she met her husband, fellow economist and future Nobel Prize winner George Akerlof. After the Federal Reserve, Yellen was faculty at the London School of Economics for two years. Then, in 1980, she accepted a position at the University of California, Berkeley, where she stayed until her appointment to the Federal Reserve Board of Governors in 1994 by President Bill Clinton. Months before his April 1994 nomination of Yellen, Clinton had selected one of Yellen's long-time colleagues at Berkeley's Haas School of Business, Laura D'Andrea Tyson, to chair the Council of Economic Advisers (making Tyson his top economist at the White House). According to an L.A. Times report on Clinton's 1994 nomination of Yellen, Tyson was "deeply involved in the selection process for filling the Fed vacancies." The report went on to assert that "Yellen, who would succeed Republican Wayne Angell on the board, also fulfills the Administration's desire to name a woman or a minority to offset the appointment of [Alan] Blinder, a white male, to be Fed vice chairman." (Tyson herself was reportedly tapped by Clinton over then-World Bank economist Larry Summers because Summers and Clinton's vice president, Al Gore, didn't see eye-to-eye on issues related to environmental economics.) So began Yellen's long career in monetary policy-making, which has already been momentous in reshaping the directives that have emanated from the central bank and driven major changes in the global economic landscape. One of the defining moments for Yellen that crystallized both her economic views and her character traits came two years into her tenure on the FOMC. In a recent profile of Yellen, New York Times correspondent Binyamin Appelbaum tells the story: In July 1996, the Federal Reserve broke the metronomic routine of its closed-door policy-making meetings to hold an unusual debate. The Fed’s powerful chairman, Alan Greenspan, saw a chance for the first time in decades to drive annual inflation all the way down to zero, achieving the price stability he had long regarded as the central bank’s primary mission. But Janet L. Yellen, then a relatively new and little-known Fed governor, talked Mr. Greenspan to a standstill that day, arguing that a little inflation was a good thing. She marshaled academic research that showed it would reduce the depth and frequency of recessions, articulating a view that has prevailed at the Fed. And as the Fed’s vice chairwoman since 2010, Ms. Yellen has played a leading role in cementing the central bank’s commitment to keep prices rising about 2 percent each year. Inflation has become one of the biggest stories in economics recently as annual inflation rates have been declining and seem stuck persistently below the Fed's 2.5% threshold for tightening monetary policy. Today's consumer price index release revealed that core price inflation remained stubbornly unchanged at 1.7% in May. Persistently below-target inflation readings have provided support for the argument that the Fed should continue with its controversial bond-buying program aimed at providing monetary stimulus to the economy. As arguably the most dovish member of the FOMC – meaning she tends to focus on unemployment concerns rather than keeping inflation at bay – Yellen has undoubtedly had a big role in shaping the course of current policy. Yet Yellen's record shows that she has not always argued for easy monetary policy and higher inflation, despite her dovish tilt. Later in 1996, the economy was expanding, labor markets were tight, but core inflation was on a steady downward trend. At the September 1996 FOMC meeting, though, Yellen argued, "I conclude that the risk of an increase in inflation has definitely risen, and I would characterize the economy as operating in an inflationary danger zone." While Yellen ultimately supported then-Chairman Alan Greenspan's decision to leave interest rates unchanged, she couched her decision by saying, "I find myself very close to the margin and would also have been quite willing to support an upward adjustment of 25 basis points today, had you proposed that." In 1996, Yellen's argument rested on the thesis that the labor market was too tight. To be sure, things are much different now – the unemployment rate remains stubbornly elevated around current levels at 7.6%, and concerns over inflation appear to be all but dead at this point. And given the Fed's current policy stance – committed to unprecedented monetary easing until signs of improvement in the labor market re-emerge – perhaps it's just as accurate to say that Yellen has already become the most powerful woman in history. Taking over the chairmanship in January would cement it. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlo Allegri FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. These Are The Three Biggest Issues Facing Financial Planners This Year (Nerd's Eye View)  Michael Kitces at Nerd's Eye View thinks there are three main issues facing financial planners in 2014. 1. Fiduciary regulation - "While the SEC may be taking a back seat on the fiduciary issue and waiting for the DOL to act, the regulator has committed itself to step up oversight (i.e., examinations) of investment advisers, and may even take up the recent SEC Advisory Panel's recommendation to begin levying "User Fees" on RIAs to help fund increased oversight." 2. Demographics - "While the anticipated mass exodus of retiring advisors has been more like a trickle so far - for a number of reasons - the veteran advisors who remain still cannot solve the capacity of growing firms that need to hire younger advisors to take the lead." 3. The rise of Robo-advisors - "While it still remains to be seen which robo-advisor models will prove viable - if any of them - and all of them are still small businesses (especially relative to the amount of capital they were funded with), expect to see a lot more activity in this space in the coming year. Along with, perhaps, a few more new tools for advisors to become more "cyborg-like" and take the robo-advisors on head-to-head. I Don't Buy The Profit Margin Compression Argument (Raymond James) Bears argue that profit margins are too high and that the trend isn't sustainable. Jeff Saut doesn't agree and he thinks the S&amp;P 500 could go to 2,000. "Of course that brings about cries that elevated profit margins cannot remain where they are, and therefore must revert to their historic mean hurting earnings, an argument from the negative nabobs we have heard since 2010; and I just don’t believe it," he said. "Many companies are moving their IT needs to the “cloud,” which saves a huge amount of money permitting margins to stay wide. Then there is the change in the composition of goods produced in this country that has moved from low margin goods to higher margined goods like jet engines. Or, how about the accounting term “income from affiliates,” which means a parent company has a minority stake in another company that brings in income but doesn’t record revenues associated with that stake, suggesting 100% margins. So, no, I do not buy the margin compression in 2014 argument." Byron Wien Unveils His 10 Surprise Predictions For 2014 (Business Insider) Blackstone's vice chairman Byron Wien is out with his 10 surprise predictions for 2014. Here they are: 1. "We experience a Dickensian market with the best of times and the worst of times. The worst comes first as geopolitical problems coupled with euphoric extremes lead to a sharp correction of more than 10%. The best then follows with a move to new highs as the Standard &amp; Poor's 500 approaches a 20% total return by year end." 2. US GDP growth rises above 3% and the Fed taper ends up being a non-event. 3. The dollar strengthens and trades below $1.25 against the euro and buys 120 yen. 4. Shinzo Abe continues his aggressive fiscal and monetary expansion and the Nikkei 225 rises to 18,000 early in the year, but market sees a 20% correction in the second half. 5. China’s Third Plenum policies to rebalance the economy sees growth slow to 6%. 6.  "Emerging market investing continues to prove treacherous." Stocks in Mexico and South Korea appreciate while other emerging markets can't keep up. 7. The price of West Texas Intermediate crude exceeds $110 because of demand from developing economies. 8. Agricultural commodity prices rise. 9. "The strength in the U.S. economy coupled with somewhat higher inflation causes the yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury to rise to 4%. Short-term rates stay near zero, but the increase in intermediate-term yields has a negative impact on housing and a positive effect on the dollar." 10. "The Affordable Care Act has a remarkable turnaround," and  president Obama's approval rating rises with Democrats retaining control of Senate in November, and gaining seats in the House. Apparently Plummeting Stocks Can Send Investors To The Hospital (Business Insider) Professors Joseph Engelberg and Christopher A. Parsons looked at California hospital records from 1983-2011 and "found a strong inverse link between daily stock returns and hospital admissions, particularly for psychological conditions such as anxiety, panic disorder, or major depression." The researchers focused on especially bad days like Black Monday, October 17, 1987, when stocks fell nearly 25% interview and hospital visits increased 5%. What's more they found that even if the market went up the next day investors didn't necessarily feel better. FREE AppDownload
Be Informed About China.  The Sinocism China Newsletter. Free. FREE AppDownload
APOn the first day of legislative business after a holiday recess, the Senate on Monday confirmed the nomination of Janet Yellen to chair the Federal Reserve. The Senate confirmed Yellen by a 56-26 vote. Eighteen senators either were not present or did not vote. Eleven Republican senators joined all present Democrats in voting to confirm Yellen. Yellen's confirmation clears the way for her to become the most powerful woman in American history, as the Fed has tremendous independence and influence on the U.S. and world economies. She is the first female chair of the Fed, and she succeeds the outgoing Ben Bernanke. President Barack Obama nominated Yellen to the post in early October. Yellen, who has been serving as the Fed's vicechair since 2010, will begin her term on Feb. 1.  FREE AppDownload
This weekend, Jesse Myerson advanced five economic reform ideas that he thinks millennials should champion, and various conservative readers' heads exploded for reasons I don't fully understand. Particularly, I don't see what's supposed to be "communist" about Myerson's proposals. His five big ideas are: Conservatives dismiss this agenda at their peril. Myerson's ideas are aimed at very real problems: Returns to labor are declining relative to returns to capital; America's economy is vulnerable to shocks that sharply raise unemployment; returns to economic growth are accruing disproportionately out of the top, leaving most people out of their share of progress. Not all of the ideas in Myerson's piece are good approaches to these problems. And since Myerson describes his "political aspirations" as communist, he obviously has some bad ideas that aren't contained in the piece. But the ideas in the piece aren't crazy and should be evaluated on their merits. The most promising of Myerson's ideas is an unconditional basic income, which is a policy of sending checks to Americans simply for existing. This policy would have several advantages; for one, it would lift people out of poverty. Unlike means-tested welfare programs, it wouldn't act like a tax that penalizes poor people for working more. It might also reverse the sliding labor share of national income; by allowing people to exit the labor market, it would tighten labor supply and allow workers to bargain for higher wages. On the other hand, by allowing people to exit the labor market, it might lower GDP. And it would be very expensive to finance. Despite these drawbacks, conservatives including Charles Murray and Milton Friedman have endorsed a UBI. The policy isn't a slam dunk, but it's definitely not communist. Or consider a land value tax. Myerson frames this idea as "Take Back The Land," but a tax on land doesn't actually take it back. Such a tax would raise revenue in a way that is friendly to the economy; taxes discourage the creation of the thing that is taxed, but the amount of land can't be increased or reduced. This tax would actually foster economic growth by making it harder for landowners to keep their land unproductive; you could expect to see a lot fewer vacant lots in New York City. This idea has drawbacks, too. For one, federal property taxes sure look like unconstitutional "direct taxes" to me, though at least one Yale Law School professor disagrees. (States and localities could still impose such taxes, even if the federal government can't.) Land is also illiquid; people who own valuable land and few other assets might be forced to sell it, which would be harmful to retirees and small farmers. Contrary to what I suspect are Myerson's goals, such a tax might actually lead to the consolidation of land ownership in the hands of wealthy landlords with sufficient cash flow to pay the taxes. Myerson's idea for public land trusts seems like a worse idea. He introduces this idea by complaining that landlords "blow" because "They don't really do anything to earn their money. They just claim ownership of buildings and charge people who actually work for a living the majority of our incomes for the privilege of staying in boxes that these owners often didn't build and rarely if ever improve." That's wrong — most of what landlords own isn't land but improvements, which are a consumer product like any other except that they can't be moved. Myerson at least implicitly understands this, since he calls for a tax specifically on land value, which is designed to encourage and reward the construction of improvements. Putting land in communal trusts would be harmful to the construction of improvements, because governments are not very good at being real estate developers — it's the government that gives you unsafe, decaying housing projects and grim office developments like Empire State Plaza. I'm also not keen on a public bank, though I don't think it would be the end of the world. A lot of capitalist countries have institutions like this, including the U.S., where most home mortgage capital is provided by the federal government. State banks are also key parts of the financial system in Germany and Spain; you won't be surprised to learn that system has worked out O.K. in Germany and pretty badly in Spain. My view is that state banks would tend to become a vehicle for subsidizing borrowing, encouraging excessive leverage. (Non-government banks also often encourage excessive leverage when they're regulated incorrectly, by the way.) They could also, as happened in Spain, become political slush funds. But I think they could be part of a well-functioning financial system, and they particularly might be useful for getting cash-management services to the underbanked.  Similarly, I don't see the appeal of a sovereign wealth fund for the U.S. We're already sort of in this business: state and local pension funds are like mini-sovereign wealth funds. The investment sides of those operations are mostly pretty satisfactory, but problems arise when governments count on high expected returns on equity as a justification to incur fixed multi-year obligations. I see lots of risks from the federal government getting into this game (what promises might it make on the back of expected stock returns?) and few benefits. In general, countries establish such funds because they have huge public natural resource wealth which they want to diversify. They sell oil and buy stock. How would such a fund fit into the U.S. fiscal picture, since we're not a petrostate? And while I favor policies to tighten the labor market, I'm not sure how a job guarantee would work. What if you can't do anything useful? What if you're terrible at your guaranteed job? There are things the government could be doing to foster job creation in recessions — deficit spending, nominal GDP targeting, a higher default level of inflation, countercyclical infrastructure investment — that strike me as likely to be much more efficient than a job guarantee. So, I'm not ready to sign up for Myerson's agenda. But I'm not sure why people are treating it like it's silly, or Soviet. FREE AppDownload
BIStudents of economics looked to 2013 with particular glee because, as luck would have it, the year was poised to settle the longstanding debate between two colliding schools of thought about monetary and fiscal policy. In one corner you had the Keynesians, starring Paul Krugman, and opposite them were the monetarists.  Keynesians argued that fiscal retrenchment (i.e., the sequester) would seriously harm growth in 2013.  Monetarists were skeptical about how much the sequester would stifle the economy, saying the Federal Reserve had the mechanisms to do whatever it wanted to jumpstart growth, fiscal policy be damned. And so the battle for 2013 was on. Did the Fed have the capability to spur growth amid fiscal headwinds? Or would Washington, fettered in a political battle over the budget, sink any hope of recovery? Here's Mike Konczal characterizing the duel in April of last year: If you look at macroeconomic policy since last fall, there have been two big moves. The Federal Reserve has committed to much bolder action in adopting the Evans Rule and QE3. At the same time, the country has entered a period of fiscal austerity. Was the Fed action enough to offset the contraction? It’s still very early, and economists will probably debate this for a generation, but, especially after the stagnating GDP report yesterday, it looks as though fiscal policy is the winner. Now that the year is over, was fiscal policy really the winner? Sure, public sector layoffs proved a major drag on the economy, but otherwise 2013 kind of plugged along impressively. Either the sequester didn't really hurt as much as people feared, or monetary policy helped dress the wound (there are of course other explanations, like the fact that 2013 austerity was front-loaded on the calendar). As BI's Joe Weisenthal admitted in his "mea culpa" for the year, "You have to say that Bernanke did pretty well for himself. The economy is operating at its best level since the crisis...But the economy has clearly done better than I and a lot of other people would have guessed given the austerity, and it seems likely that the Fed played a role." There you have it, central bankers more or less take 2013! So where's Krugman on all of this? His critics say this year basically discredited his Keynesian gusto, but Krugman isn't saying he was wrong. Here he is reflecting on 2013: One way to look at the US economy in 2013 is that it was, in effect, trying to begin a strong recovery, but was held back by terrible federal fiscal policy. Housing was making a comeback, state and local austerity was, if not going into reverse, at least not getting more intense, household spending was starting to revive as debt levels came down. But the feds were raising the payroll tax, slashing spending via the sequester, and more. Incidentally, these other factors are why I don’t take seriously the claims of market monetarists that the failure of growth to collapse in 2013 somehow showed that fiscal policy doesn’t matter. US austerity, although a really bad thing, wasn’t nearly as intense as what happened in southern Europe; it was small enough that it could be, and I’d argue was, more or less offset by other stuff over the course of a single year. Let's flash back. Here's Krugman reflecting on Konczal's piece back in April clarifying his views on monetary versus fiscal policy: I’m not claiming that there is nothing the central bank can do; but as I’ve tried to explain before, monetary policy can, for the most part, gain traction under current circumstances only by changing expectations about future actions (and changing them a lot). Meanwhile, fiscal policy has a direct, current effect on the economy, which easily trumps attempts to move the economy by changing the Fed’s messaging. We'll see what 2014 has in store. FREE AppDownload
Business Insider is hiring a copy editor to join our newsroom. This person will work full time in BI's NYC headquarters, monitoring content that goes up on the site and correcting for spelling and grammar errors, as well as other glaring copy issues. We're looking for someone who can spot errors and work incredibly quickly to correct them. Attention to detail is necessary, but so is speed and efficiency. Requirements: At least 2 years of copy editing experience (preferably for an online news site). Familiarity with Content Management Systems. Great attitude; team player. If interested, please send your resume to copyeditorjob@businessinsider.com. In addition, please complete this quick assignment and include it in the email: Choose an article on Business Insider that is in need of further copy editing. Send along an annotated version of the article with your edits. Competitive compensation and benefits packages offered. Salary and title are dependent upon level of experience. FREE AppDownload
AmazonFor the first several years of BI's existence, our markets vertical was called "Money Game." We took the name in part from one of the greatest books about finance every written: "The Money Game," by George Goodman, who jokingly wrote under the name "Adam Smith." Goodman died last week age 83.  His other lifetime achievements included founding Institutional Investor magazine in the '60s, and serving as executive editor of Esquire in the 1970s. But "The Money Game," published in 1968, remains his most famous work. In his obituary, The New York Times' Douglas Martin writes that the work posits that "the machinations of money were high drama, understandable to the lay reader and, perhaps most important to the book’s success, humorous. The Wall Street Journal and The Washington Post both lauded it as a masterly exposition of mass psychology." And indeed, "Game" contains one of the best passages about markets' role in American society ever written. Goodman breaks down the country into two segments: those who care about markets, and those who don't — and the price paid by each.    "…the investment game is intolerably boring save to those with a gambling instinct, while those with the instinct must pay to it 'the appropriate toll.' This really does say it all. We have more than 26 million direct investors in this country, i.e., people who have actually bought stocks. (I say direct investors because indirectly, through insurance companies and pension plans, we have more than a hundred million investors, which is just about everybody except children and the rural poor.) Not all of the 24 million are fiercely active, but the number grows all the time, making the stock market a great national pastime...Sometimes illusions are more comfortable than reality, but there is no reason to be discomfited by facing the gambling instinct that saves the stock market from being a bore. Once it is acknowledged, rather than buried, we can 'pay to this propensity the appropriate toll' and proceed with reality." Some books never lose their relevancy, no matter how old. FREE AppDownload
This position has been filled. See all available jobs at Business Insider here &gt;&gt;   Business Insider Video is hiring a Video Editor / Animator / Graphic Artist / Producer to join our expanding video team. Yes, that’s one position. Call it a Pranimator. Or a Greditor. Or maybe a Prartist.   Whatever mashup term you use, above all, the perfect candidate will be a great storyteller -- eager to tell video and graphics-rich tales that elicit emotional responses. Proficiency in Final Cut X, After Effects, and Motion preferred. Experience with video and audio equipment including Sony and Canon DSLR cameras is also necessary.NASA Johnson Space Center The ideal candidate thrives working in a team environment, often in tandem with other producers, on intense and graphics-heavy branded video packages. This person will also create rich data-based stories that might have no narration or "talent" to drive them. In addition, they’ll take a leading role in helping BI Video develop a look and style for our video output. This may end up being the most exciting part of the job. Here are examples of some of our most recent videos: Here's What Really Happens At A Tesla Supercharging Station The Mystery Behind Dry-Cleaning Revealed The Xbox One Reviewed In 60 Seconds What It Takes To Work At Hooters Please note: This job is full-time and requires that you work in our Manhattan office. Competitive salary and benefits offered. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mathieu BelangerStocks have fallen on every trading day this year. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsTic Toc Tic TocWells Fargo economists John E. Silvia and Michael A. Brown sent out a note today titled, "Another Debt Ceiling Deadline." Yes, the debt ceiling is back and we're quickly approaching it. Congress has a few things to take care of in the next few weeks, including the omnibus spending bill, the farm bill and possibly an extension of emergency unemployment benefits. Soon after that, it will face its toughest challenge of the year when Democrats and Republicans will have to find a way to prevent us from defaulting. The deal to end the government shutdown in October raised the debt ceiling until February 7. After that, Treasury can employ extraordinary measures to extend the deadline even further. How long is still up in the air - it could come as soon as late February or as late as June depending on the amount Treasury collects in tax receipts. Either way, the debt ceiling is coming and Republicans have been making it very clear recently that they are gearing up for another fight. President Obama and Democrats are expected to employ the same strategy as they used last fall in refusing to negotiate whatsoever. They (rightly) don't believe that Republicans should be able to demand a ransom for raising the debt ceiling. This sets up yet another battle that risks hurting the economy just as the recovery seems ready to speed up. Yippee. FREE AppDownload
While you were sleeping in or staring blankly at your spreadsheet to put in some face time over the slow holiday season, two well-loved Wall Street hangouts closed down in NYC. These are not the kinds of stories I like to write, but someone has to do it. First, famed seasonal restaurant Park Avenue Winter shuts its doors. The restaurant's lease expired and it's unclear when or where the restaurant will reopen (though Alan and Michael Stillman, the father-son duo who own the restaurant say it will). The duo also closed Hurricane Steak + Sushi (once called The Hurricane Club). According to Eater, there was word that Park Avenue Winter might open in The Hurricane Club's space, but apparently that's not happening. You may recall that Park Avenue Fall (same restaurant, remember ...  seasonal) was the official replacement spot for Wall Street's Lowes Regency "Power Breakfast" while the hotel was getting remodeled last year. The other sad closing that should be noted is the shuttering of SL, the basement nightclub owned by EMM Group (they also own Catch NY and Catch Miami). EMM is looking into a new concept for the space, which was near-legendary club Lotus before it turned into the Ciroc-fest that was SL. In fact, the space really hasn't ever reached the popularity it had since Lotus died (think: beautiful, famous people and a weekly DJ set from Questlove). So let's pour one out for these fallen hangs. Never forget. Jamie Foxx spinning at SL NYC! #throwbackthursday #tbt pic.twitter.com/FETGfQXKfU FREE AppDownload
Gluskin Sheff's David Rosenberg thinks the U.S. consumer is taking the torch from housing to drive the U.S. and global economy higher. He writes that the comeback of the American consumer "is the upside surprise for 2014," along with a recovery in business capital spending. Here's why: First, this chart shows that the American consumer, if it were a country, would account for 15% of global GDP. Gluskin Sheff So, if the American consumer were making a comeback, OECD economies — particularly those over 50% correlation between their GDP growth rate and the behavior of the American consumer — stand to benefit too. Gluskin Sheff So what's behind Rosenberg's optimism for the American consumer? "Balance sheets have moved into much better shape in the aftermath of the acute five-year deleveraging cycle. They need for more fiscal belt-tightening, which led to personal tax payments running at a double digit annual rate from 2011 to 2013, is all but over and should help augment disposable incomes, which are likely to get a lift in any event from gradually improving employment conditions and a tighter labor market. Plus, there is still considerable pent-up demand, especially given the record old age of the auto fleet and housing stock too. And we are seeing a turn for the better in employment growth for the 25-24 age cohort which bodes well fro real estate and housing-related spending even with mortgage rates tracking Treasury yields higher." Rosenberg previously said it is "the year of the horse, the one that's about to break out of the gate." FREE AppDownload
Courtesy of original poster The dramatic increase in wealth in China over the past few decades has resulted in many new superrich families seeking to introduce the Western world to their children. Sometimes wealthy Chinese go to the West: For instance, Bo Guagua, the son of ousted Chongqing party boss Bo Xilai was educated at London's Harrow School, Oxford, and Harvard (the man who "fixed" this elite Western education later ended up dead, by the way). Sometimes Europeans and Americans go to China for jobs in child care and education. For the Western job-seekers, it's a chance to see a different world and get paid while doing it. For the Chinese families, it's a chance to introduce their children to a different language and a different culture. One British girl who used an agency to work as a nanny for a wealthy family in Hangzhou (rich enough to have five Porsches) recently took to Reddit to answer questions about her experience, and her answers are wonderfully candid. We've included some of her answers below, lightly edited for clarity. Bear in mind these are just one person's experience, and she's also one person who plans to soon leave China. "I get paid s***-all. I have all my food, room and pocket money given to me. I also get some treats now and then because the hostmother is a kept woman so I get some beauty treatments and things for free. I also get free Chinese lessons which is good. They pay in part for my flight there too. The experience has been very interesting but the agency has scammed me in a few ways too." "[The family tries to fit in with Western culture] and it's sort of embarrassing, especially with the food. And labels, the obsession with western labels on clothes, even if the clothes don't go or look stupid [...] The first day I arrived at the family's house they took me to a steak house which apparently is a huge deal (I was mostly veggie in England). It was surreal to be served steak and potatoes and have my favorite Chet Baker song in the background. Very weird. Fast food is also popular and before I came there was a Lady Gaga themed steak house." "It seems to vary family by family. [I've other nanny friends] but mine seems to be the father away all the time apart from one day at the weekend, the mother ferrying her son to all his schools and activities and endless parties and lavish dinners. During the day there's very little to do because there's also a housekeeper. They shop, go the movies and watch TV." "[They] own many nice cars, luxurious apartment and second home, one kid in boarding school, other privately educated." "[They live in] a very rich neighborhood, but having been in some other apartments and things they seem slightly richer in comparison. This kid seems more pushed than the other kids, 6 days of school a week and 4 music lessons in the evenings too." "I take the kid to school, come back and work on some Chinese or write, and sometimes I sneak off to model here too. On my days off the family go away to a different city so I walk around singing loudly because I can and maybe meet up with another nanny that lives near me. I also play basketball." "Pick his nose and wipe it on me? Wave his bare ass at me? Oh and a friend who works an hour or so away has seen the kids be allowed to just piss on the living room floor so they don;t have to move from the television. Occasionally they'll bring him a bucket." "Oh she's generally sweet to me, really. They are very nice, especially the ayi (grandmother) so I've been relatively lucky. However some things remind me of my status sometimes, like not being taken for medical care etc." "Many things, not being able to fully discipline the kid sometimes, the lack of freedom as a previously quite independent person and actually China is very dirty and polluted, so I feel quite guilty I get to leave and they just have to deal." [...] "For example today [the child] came home from the hospital after being in for some kind of very bad cold (when the worlds antibiotics become completely ineffective we will know exactly which country to blame) in his mask and the first thing he did when i knelt down to say hello was wipe his phlegmy coughy mask round my face O_O." "[It happens] all the time, but not in a very sleazy way. If I go out they send drinks to my table which I actually don't like and I get people coming up to me in the street but it's not intimidating or anything." "Hmmm, I kept telling the family here I was sick for about 3 months and they just laughed it off and told me to get over it. Eventually I got a fever and deep pain in my kidneys which was a kidney infection. They wouldn't drive me so I had to walk a few miles to the most vile hospital ever and get examined on a gurney in a room of Chinese people with colds with them thumping me and asking me if it hurt in certain places. I had to pay a buttload and get lots of IV's. Ick." "The best? The boy can be very sweet and funny and I had a great birthday party here, we went to a Chinese club and I brought twerking to the mainland." "Meeting young Chinese people and having so much in common with them, even when language was a problem we have had so much fun learning about each others' cultures and helping each other out. I've made amazing friends. How sweet the Chinese are to their kids, watching the grandparents sit by the lake with the young kids is heartwarming. Bonding with a kid who isn't mine and having him give me a kiss goodnight. Lots of good things." [Please note, the answers have been lightly edited for clarity]     FREE AppDownload
BIICatch up on the latest payments industry news with Payments Insights, a daily email newsletter that tracks how new products, technologies, and companies are changing the face of payments.  As digital payments grow, there's a lot at stake for the credit card, consumer banking, tech, and retail industries. We'll follow all the top trends, companies, and people.  Signing up is quick and easy. Click on this link, enter your email address, and click, "Submit." You'll receive it every morning in your inbox.  The newsletter is produced by BI Intelligence, Business Insider's subscription research service. Any comments or suggestions, please email mballve@businessinsider.com.     FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Sebastien NogierByron Wien, Vice Chairman of Blackstone Advisory Services, attends the GAIM International (Global Alternative Investment Management) hedge fund conference in Monaco, June 15, 2010.Blackstone Group vice chairman Byron Wien does not have a lot of faith in Bitcoin. Included on his list of annual "surprise" predictions is the possibility that acceptance of the digital currency collapses this year. "In 2½ years the price of a Bitcoin has increased from $25 to $975," says Wien. "The supply of bitcoins is fixed at 21 million with 11.5 million in circulation. Bitcoins lack gold’s position as a store of value over time. During the year Bitcoin’s acceptance collapses as investors realize that it cannot be used as collateral in financial transactions and its principal utility is for illegal business dealings where anonymity is important." Wien's 2013 predictions did not pan out so well, but perhaps he will have more luck this year. Click here for a list of all of Wien's 2014 predictions. FREE AppDownload
Of Numbers This picture has been making the rounds.  The top section is the volume of LTC at OKCoin.  The middle of BTC volume at BTCChina and the bottom is the BTC volume at Huobi.  The yellow line is when the PBOC stepped in and told 3rd party payment processors / intermediaries they could no longer transfer RMB into crypto exchanges. In the last post I mentioned that there are speculative reports that exchanges in China (and probably globally) are fudging their volume numbers (e.g., why the sudden dramatic drop-off at certain sites relative to others). Why is this done?  Before answering that I should point out that it is quite simple to create a server-side app that dynamically reports a volume number during specific periods of the day (e.g., higher during the work day to mimic traditional stock exchange peaks and troughs).  Exchanges currently have an incentive to fudge these numbers in an effort to attract eyeballs by claiming they have the biggest volume.  This then becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy as market participants (e.g., speculators, day traders, etc.) discover this volume number through a news source and then setup accounts to begin trading on the exchange. How can you tell whether or not this is the case in China or elsewhere?   Merely looking at blockchain.info would be pointless because the transactions at exchanges are internal and do not affect the blockchain until there is a deposit or withdrawal.  And after all, lots of investors like day traders never actually withdraw their bitcoins each and every day due to transaction fees.  Thus the only verifiable way is to actually go inside an exchange and look at their accounting / exchange database to see the true turnover. How to fake (some) numbers Because exchanges merely self-report whatever they want to, ultimately this kind of fakery is easy to spot if you publicly expose your market depth. Another way is if you, the exchange operator, run your own bots which arbitrage to make extra profit yet your bots do not pay any fees.  Whether that is actually fake is arguable (see below), however since the trades are actually conducted this kind of activity is typically not practiced in many “real” securities exchanges (e.g., akin to NASDAQ operating the exchange and yet maintaining an internal trading desk whereupon it does not have to pay fees). And another way is to simply mirror other exchanges and if you are mirroring, you may be fudging the numbers to disguise it, or not. You might execute the mirrored trades or just have them for show.  In fact, you do not copy all the orders exactly, you randomize the quantities and prices slightly.  The trick is to randomize the numbers, but keep your risk low by minimizing arbitrage opportunities (this can all be done via an HFT system). So again, sites like BTC123.com aggregate Chinese volume numbers and assume that the self-reported numbers are valid.  Maybe they are, but there is no real transparency currently.  And I’m not sure how you can add transparency either.  And more seriously, how can you (the exchange) going forward publish accurate information and get the same audience that has been misinformed in the past to believe you once again? It should also be noted, it is not always clear what is or is ethical / fake with this speculation.  As suggested above with the NASDAQ example, the lines between the trading exchange and the banking institutions that utilize it may be blurry (e.g., conflict of fiduciary responsibilities in the event you have duties at both).1. Blatantly lying about your volume is obviously fraud.  But is trading in your own exchange (with bots or otherwise) wrong?  Is mirroring (as long as you are willing to execute the mirrored trades) wrong?  It is not clear whether that is wrong / fake, perhaps at some point a guideline of best-practices will become adopted industry wide that clarifies this. At the end of the day, what counts is whether or not I can get a fill at or close to market price.  Thus, as a trader, I care if you just make up the ticker numbers.  But I may not care about mirrored trades, as long as I can still trade against them.  One last point: using bots and/or mirroring trades enough to have large volume is expensive and risky.  It takes millions of dollars to copy the same volume as the major exchanges and increases as the price of tokens increases.  And in all likelihood, many investors only have accounts with one exchange.  Otherwise the arb opportunities could not be so relatively frequent as they have been the past 6 months. Market makers Perhaps the only other individuals who have the ability to test and audit volume numbers are market makers.  This could be a HNWI or a coordinated group of day traders consisting of as little as a few bored housewives who have money to burn (e.g., xiaosan).  What a market maker could do is video tape the entire buying and selling of chunks of 30-50 or more BTC to see whether or not the buy and sell orders are filled (e.g., if the liquidity does not exist, the orders could not be filled).  Note: this type of empirical activity can only be done going forward in time.  Unless you have access to a Psychohistory device, there is no way to verify who was fibbing in the past. If you are willing and able to fulfill this pro bono role, you could test out volume claims at the three exchanges listed above throughout the forthcoming days and weeks and report your findings which would either way qualify one variable known unknown. In fact, it would be in the exchange owners best interest to implore investigative journalists to  randomly place and fill buy / sell orders throughout a series of video taped interviews.  Specifically, large orders at several random hours each day (that are unannounced to anyone at the exchange).  This then could be repeated over a period of weeks to prevent any kind of rigging (e.g., exchange owners depositing and withdrawing cash simultaneously as known trades occur). Finding volunteers for such a task would be difficult but it would likely work with roughly $100,000 based on current token prices (~$750).  Any large trader (who is willing to show you the their trades) could tell you whether the market volume is legitimate.  And ultimately, if you can fill a $100,000 trade, it is legit to you, regardless of what fakery the exchange operator may be doing. [Special thanks to David Veksler and Scott Freeman for their thoughts and comments constructing this post.] This article originally appeared at Of Numbers.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
JetBlue is stopping nearly all service into and out of Boston and New York airports until Tuesday morning, it has announced. The area has been slammed by bad weather over the past few days: A snowstorm on Thursday and Friday, followed by icing conditions during the weekend, rainy weather today, and the polar vortex that's expected to bring extremely cold temperatures on Tuesday. JetBlue has been especially hard hit, since New York's JFK International is its home airport. It has already cancelled nearly half of its flights scheduled for today, according to FlightAware.com. Now that it's stopping nearly all flights into and out of JFK, LaGuardia, Newark, and Boston until 10 a.m., that number is bound to rise. Meanwhile, JetBlue hasn't fully recovered from the flights it cancelled over the weekend: It still has customers stuck in Barbados and the Cayman Islands, some of whom may not get home for a week.  The fact that new FAA rules, limiting the number of consecutive hours pilots can fly, went into effect on Saturday isn't helping — that makes it harder to schedule extra flights to get people home and planes and crew in position. The nearly 24-hour long stop should give JetBlue a chance to catch up. In a blog post, it said "This plan allows for 17 hours of rest for crews, and time for Tech Ops to service the aircraft," and that it "intend[s] to be fully operational by 3 p.m. ET on Tuesday." Passengers who had tickets for cancelled flights can rebook or request a refund. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidByron Wien.Blackstone Group vice chairman Byron Wien has released his 10 surprise predictions for 2014. They can be found in the press release included below. Wien's 2013 predictions did not pan out so well, but perhaps he will have more luck this year. --------------------------------------- NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Byron R. Wien, Vice Chairman, Blackstone Advisory Partners, today issued his list of Surprises for 2014. This is the 29th year Byron has given his views on a number of economic, financial market and political surprises for the coming year. Byron defines a “surprise” as an event which the average investor would only assign a one out of three chance of taking place but which Byron believes is “probable,” having a better than 50% likelihood of happening. Byron started the tradition in 1986 when he was the Chief U.S. Investment Strategist at Morgan Stanley. Byron joined Blackstone in September 2009 as a Senior Advisor to both the firm and its clients in analyzing economic, political, market and social trends. Byron’s Ten Surprises of 2014 are as follows: Every year there are always a few Surprises that do not make the Ten either because I do not think they are as relevant as those on the basic list or I am not comfortable with the idea that they are “probable.” Also rans: About Blackstone Blackstone is one of the world’s leading investment and advisory firms. We seek to create positive economic impact and long-term value for our investors, the companies we invest in, the companies we advise and the broader global economy. We do this through the commitment of our extraordinary people and flexible capital. Our asset management businesses include investment vehicles focused on private equity, real estate, hedge fund solutions, non-investment grade credit, secondary funds, and multi asset class exposures falling outside of other funds’ mandates. Blackstone also provides various financial advisory services, including financial and strategic advisory, restructuring and reorganization advisory and fund placement services. Further information is available at www.blackstone.com. Follow Blackstone on Twitter @Blackstone. The views expressed in this commentary are the personal views of Byron Wien of Blackstone Advisory Partners L.P. (together with its affiliates, “Blackstone”) and do not necessarily reflect the views of Blackstone itself. The views expressed reflect the current views of Mr. Wien as of the date hereof and neither Mr. Wien nor Blackstone undertakes to advise you of any changes in the views expressed herein. FREE AppDownload
PBS NewshourRobert ShillerRobert Shiller's famous stock market valuation metric — the cyclically-adjusted price-earnings (CAPE) ratio — is at 25.4x right now. CAPE is calculated by taking the S&amp;P 500 and dividing it by the average of ten years worth of earnings.  If the ratio is above the long-term average of around 16x, the stock market is considered expensive. Relative to the long-term average, 25.4x seems extraordinarily high. And some folks think this is a great reason to dump stocks because it appears the risk of a crash is high. But who's not dumping stocks? Robert Shiller. And he won the Nobel Prize in Economics for his related work. Here's a quote from a recent PBS interview we saw on Brad Delong's blog: Paul Solman: But the index to which you refer, the cyclically adjusted price earnings ratio, that's at about 25 at the moment. It peaked at 45 back in 2000. In 1929, it was about 35, but historically the average is somewhere like 15, 16? So 25 to 15 is overvalued by 60 percent. Bob Shiller: It can keep going up. Even so, it's not a clear signal yet. Well, 25... it could go up to 35, easily. Paul Solman: And then you'd have left a lot of money on the table by not having bought at 25. Bob Shiller: That's the problem that... yeah, it's time to be worried, but it's not necessarily time to bail out. I have money in the stock market. I would say it's about 50 percent, but I don't have the exact number. And I don't think it necessarily means that I'm a model for everyone. I'm someone who is older, and young people can take greater risks. I'm not advising them to, but it's natural that they might. There's a few things Shiller is communicating here. First, he reminds us that momentum or irrational behavior or some other unidentified phenomenon can cause market valuations to swing big before reverting back to a mean. That's why he thinks the CAPE could conceivably go to 35, which would put the S&amp;P 500 at close to 2,500. Second, Shiller reminds us that the CAPE model is not good for timing the market, a point he's reiterated in the past repeatedly. Rather, he emphasizes that CAPE is only decent at predicting long-term returns. And according to Credit Suisse's Andrew Garthaite, current CAPE levels correspond to mid-single digit intermediate-term returns. Ultimately, you can argue that the CAPE reflects an expensive market. But Shiller would advise against using it as a tool for predicting imminent stock market crashes. Yale, Robert Shiller FREE AppDownload
Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets - Notes from Mark Mobius  Mark Mobius, Ph.D., executive chairman of Templeton Emerging Markets Group, joined Templeton in 1987. Currently, he directs the Templeton research team based in 15 global emerging markets offices and manages emerging markets portfolios. As he spans the globe in search of investment opportunities, his “Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets” blog gives readers a taste for what he does, when, where, why and how. Dr. Mobius has written several books, including “Trading with China,” “The Investor’s Guide to Emerging Markets,” “Mobius on Emerging Markets,” “Passport to Profits,” “Equities—An Introduction to the Core Concepts,” “Mutual Funds—An Introduction to the Core Concepts,” ”The Little Book of Emerging Markets,” and “Mark Mobius: An Illustrated Biography." Read more posts on Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets » This article originally appeared at Investment Adventures In Emerging Markets.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Just in time for Frontline's big exposé of beleaguered hedge fund SAC Capital and the insider trading trial of its former employee Mathew Martoma, someone is auctioning off a SAC fleece on eBay. "Own a piece of history," writes eBay user madinny. Bidding starts at $1,500 for the "coveted original blue version" of the SAC jacket and three other hedge fund fleeces. Why such a high price? "I need to pay my health insurance for a few months and having these places on my resume hasn’t worked out too well," madinny writes. Here's the description on eBay (from Dealbreaker via Dealbook's Matthew Goldstein): This package includes 4 hedge fund fleece jackets, including the coveted original blue version of the S.A.C. Capital (being profiled on Frontline this Tuesday January 7th at 10pm on PBS), all in size XL. All are in very good condition, SAC and Sigma (made by Vantage) have been worn but are in good condition, the Stratix (made by Lands End) is mint, and the Quadrum (made by Port Authority) is unworn with original tags. All 4 hedge funds have been in the news recently, own a piece of history! Best of all you don’t even need to get screamed at, be told you are useless, sell your soul, have your hair go gray or worse yet lose it altogether… There is a high minimum as I need to pay my health insurance for a few months and having these places on my resume hasn’t worked out too well. Copy of resume will be included free of charge… FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike Segar2014 is here and with it begins a new year for investors. In December the expected sell-off designed to create end of the year tax losses was nowhere to be found, in fact the S&amp;P 500 index was up 1.5%.  Stocks typically rally in January as investors no longer worry about end of the year tax positions and load back into equities, this phenomenon is known as the January Effect.  Here are 5 stocks for this month that analysts expect to not only benefit from the January Effect but also crush Wall Street’s earnings expectations and outperform the market. The information below is derived from data submitted to the Estimize platform by a set of Buy Side and Independent analyst contributors. 1. Monsanto Co. (MON) Estimize The current Wall Street consensus expectation is for MON to report 63c EPS while the current Estimize consensus from Buy Side and Independent contributing analysts is 71c EPS. Estimize Over the past 6 quarters Estimize was more accurate in forecasting Monsanto’s profit 4 times. The Estimize consensus is more accurate than Wall Street up to 69.5% of the time because it represents market expectations without suffering from some of the biases that hinder sell-side analysts. By tapping into a wider distribution of 3,400 contributors including hedge funds and independent analysts as well as students and non professional investors, Estimize is better able to capture the true market outlook. The magnitude of the difference between the Wall Street and Estimize consensus numbers often identifies opportunities to take advantage of expectations that may not have been priced into the market. Our quantitative research conducted by former hedge fund traders has found that when there is a positive earnings differential between the Estimize and Wall Street consensus numbers the stock price will on drift up on average, outperforming the market going into the report. 2. Goldman Sachs (GS) Estimize Wall Street is expecting Goldman Sachs to report $4.02 EPS while the Estimize community is expecting $4.16. Estimize Over the past 6 quarters the consensus from our Buy-side and Independent contributing analysts has been more accurate in forecasting Goldman Sachs’s earnings all 6 times. GS has beaten the Wall Street consensus for profit 8 times in a row and our contributors are expecting that pattern to continue. 3. Apple (AAPL) Estimize Apple is scheduled to report its FQ1 2014 earnings on January 22. Wall Street is forecasting $14.02 EPS while the consensus from 89 contributing analysts at Estimize is $14.36. Estimize The holiday season is always a big time of the year for Apple and our contributing analysts are confident that Apple will post strong quarterly results. Apple recently came to a deal with China Mobile to have the iPhone distributed in China for the first time, over 100,000 iPhones were pre-ordered in the first 2 days they became available. Estimize Apple’s stock has had a check shaped year, share prices dropped over the 2 quarter period where it beat Wall Street once but failed to live up to the market’s expectations as represented by the Estimize consensus. Over the past 2 quarters the stock price has climbed from $438.93 to $555.13 and is carrying some momentum going into their January earnings release. 4. Caterpillar (CAT) This January our contributing analysts are predicting that Caterpillar will beat the Wall Street consensus on profit by a wide margin. Our analyst are making a bold call for $1.47 EPS while Wall Street only has earnings at $1.29 per share. Because there is such a large differential here and the January Effect is in play, we could see a significant gain in the Caterpillar share price before the report. 5. QUALCOMM (QCOM) At the end of the month Wall Street is expecting QUALCOMM to report $1.20 EPS while the Estimize community is forecasting $1.25 EPS. As displayed in the graph above QCOM posted tremendous financial results in 2013 experiencing year over year growth in each of the past 4 quarters. On the 29th our contributing analysts are expecting QCOM to profit 1c short of the FQ1 results from last year, while Wall Street is expecting EPS to drop by 6c. As mentioned earlier, our statistical research has shown that on average when the Estimize consensus is higher than Wall Street’s the stock price tends to drift upward going into the earnings release if you benchmark against the market. For that reason, we could see these 5 stocks climb higher through January.  Head over to Estimize to learn more about strategies hedge funds are using to leverage our data set and sign up for free to see how you stack up to Wall Street and your contributing analyst peers. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Russell CheyneManchester United's Javier Hernandez (R) is tackled by Swansea City's Chico Flores during their English FA Cup third round soccer match at Old Trafford in Manchester, northern England January 5, 2014.The U.S. stock markets have fallen into the red this morning. The Dow is down 52 points and the S&amp;P is down 6 points, reflecting 0.3% declines. That Nasdaq is down 25 points or 0.6%. This comes in the wake of a disappointing ISM services report. The headline index unexpectedly fell to 53.0 in December from 53.9. Everyone is particularly worried about the new orders sub-index, which plunged to 49.4. This was the lowest reading since May 2009. "The decline in new orders activity augurs negatively for future service sector performance," said TD Securities' Gennadiy Goldberg. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike SegarWhitney TilsonHedge fund manager Whitney Tilson, who is short 3D Systems Corp, thinks the rise in the 3D printer's stock "will end very badly." The 3D printer's stock currently trades above $92 per share.   "Mark my words: this will end very badly. I think DDD is maybe worth 2x revenues, so my price target is around $10 – down nearly 90% from here," Tilson wrote in an email posted on ValueWalk.com this weekend. Tilson, who runs Kase Capital, sent an email last month detailing why he think 3D Systems is an "unbelievably great" short.   However, since he made those comments, the stock has risen more than 24%. The 3D printer's stock was last off more than 4 percent today at about $92.39 per share. Here's an excerpt from Tilson's latest email: A month ago (on 12/3), I wrote the following in one of my weekly emails: Ya can’t make this stuff up! From a friend who met with the CEO of DDD (not some penny stock, but an $8 BILLION company): Avi told me during a 1x1 that “his company is 50% technology, 20% innovation and 30% awesomeness.” What is the appropriate discount rate to apply to “awesomeness”? Remember that line – it’s a classic; like Chuck Prince’s infamous: “As long as the music is playing, you've got to get up and dance.” The only surprise is that Elon Musk didn’t say it. DDD is one of so many unbelievably great shorts out there right now. I haven’t written it up (yet), but Citron wrote an excellent report in February entitled, What do a Comb, an Egg Cup, and a Justin Bieber Vibrator Have in Common?; see: www.citronresearch.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/02/DDD-final1.pdf. The stock is a much better short today, as it’s up 26% since then but the fundamentals are deteriorating and the company lowered guidance in its last earnings report. But that hasn’t deterred the bulls, as it trades within a few percent of its all-time high, at 17.2x REVENUES, 64x trailing EBITDA, and 63x next year’s earnings estimates. Since then, the stock has jumped 24% and the company now sports a $9.9 billion market cap and trades at 21x sales. Think about the implications of this. I used to think that it's mathematically impossible for a company with a $10B market cap and more than 10x sales (much less 21x) to ever be a good investment, but a few companies have proved me wrong. They all have three characteristics: 1) They serve rapidly growing global markets; 2) They have winner-take-all (or at least most) business models; and 3) They have extremely "light" business models -- meaning they can scale globally with very little capital required. The stocks of such companies can actually be cheap – even with big market caps and P/S multiples. Examples of stocks that have done well subsequent to periods at which they were trading above 10x TTM sales and had market caps in excess of $10B include Microsoft and Yahoo in the late 1990s (and Yahoo again in 2003-04), Amgen and Biogen prior to around 2003-05, Adobe in 2000, Google, priceline.com and Infosys in the few years after their IPOs, Qualcomm from 2001-2006, Salesforce.com at various points, as well as LinkedIn, Facebook, Baidu, Tencent, Gilead Sciences for their entire existences. (Incidentally, Netflix, which I still own, has all of these characteristics I believe – and trades at “only” 5.2x revenues; it was 1x revenues when I pitched it at the Value Investing Congress 15 months – and a 7-bagger – ago.) Note that every one of these 15 companies falls into two categories:  1) 11 are software/internet companies that don’t deliver a physical product – the lightest business models imaginable; or 2) Four have intellectual property (three have patented drugs) that allows them to earn supersize profits (gross margin in the 70-90% range and net margin of 20-30%). So now let’s apply this framework to 3D Systems. Re. #1, I’ll grant that 3D printing is a rapidly growing global market, but the company utterly fails characteristics #2 and #3. It’s a highly competitive market with no winner-take-all characteristics (though each company does have some IP) and DDD doesn’t have a particularly light business model (certainly not when compared to the software and internet companies I cite above). (Incidentally, the same analysis holds for Tesla, which I’m also short – it trades at 10.8x sales and is an auto manufacturer!) In the past 20 years, DDD’s gross margin has only crept above 50% in the last two years, and its net margin has actually fallen from its peak of 15.4% in 2011 to 11.0% in 2012 to 9.5% in the last 12 months. This is what investors are paying 21x sales for?! Mark my words: this will end very badly. I think DDD is maybe worth 2x revenues, so my price target is around $10 – down nearly 90% from here. FREE AppDownload
On Tuesday night at 10:00 pm EST,'Frontline' will air its 'To Catch A Trader' documentary about how the FBI investigated some of the biggest insider trading cases in the last decade. Of course billionaire Steve Cohen's hedge fund, SAC Capital, gets a l0t of attention. Part of that is because 'Frontline' was able to obtain never-before-published video of Steven Cohen's deposition in a case involving hedge funds and Canadian firm Fairfax Financial. SAC, along with a number of other hedge funds, was accused of colluding to bring down the company's stock. You can watch some of his deposition here. All in all, it shows that Cohen lacks a mastery of basic regulation. He says that rules about insider trading are "vague," for example. If that sounds out of this world, the way the documentary's director, Nick Verbitsky, got that footage is even crazier. He told Bloomberg columnist William Cohan that an anonymous source left it on a USB drive hidden in between some scaffolding in the building across the street from Frontline's NYC office. Frontline's timing with this is pretty perfect. SAC was just forced to return all outside investor money and become a family office after federal settling charges of insider trading this fall. On top of that former SAC portfolio manager Mathew Martoma's insider trial begins today. So you may want to brush up on your recent history with 'Frontline' on Tuesday night. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Michael Dalder Earlier this morning we saw the ISM services index fall to 53 in December from November's 53.9 reading. The new orders sub-index fell 7 points to 49.4 in December, from 56.4 the previous month. This was the weakest reading since May 2009, and a reading below 50 signals contraction. TD Securities' Gennadiy Goldberg characterized the detail as "quite concerning." "The decline in new orders activity augurs negatively for future service sector performance," wrote Goldberg in a note to clients. The new export orders sub-index also tumbled, falling 6.5 pp to 51.5, from 58 the previous month. The employment sub-index surged to 55.8, but a slowdown in new orders doesn't bode well for the services sector. "With service sector employment accounting for the overwhelming majority of U.S. jobs, the recent underperformance in services is a worrying sign for future growth prospects," says Goldberg.  "A further weakening in new orders activity is likely to lead a pullback in the employment component of the services survey, potentially suggesting a slowing in payroll growth." December became the fourth straight month in which manufacturing activity outperformed services as measured by the ISM indices. FREE AppDownload
YouTube/Talks at GoogleIf you weren't watching the finance twitter this weekend, you missed a good show. Author, financial philosopher and economist hater Nassim Taleb went ballistic on some critics who called out one of his old comments. Nassim Taleb's whole thing is how you should be "antifragile," and it's not intuitive how it's a demonstration of being antifragile to fly into a rage when some folks poke at you on Twitter. So we asked him about that, and his answer was that he had a moral compulsion to do so. Specifically, he says that if someone attacks him, and he thinks the attack is BS, then he would attack the guy in a private conversation for being a fool. And Taleb believes he shouldn't have a different private persona than a public persona, so therefore he must bring the attack to Twitter. (BTW: The nature of the fight is that someone brought up the fact that in 2010 Nassim Taleb says it was a no-brainer to short Treasuries. Most people would say this hasn't done well [though Taleb disagrees with that], but Taleb thinks it's BS to bring it up since he favors bets that have a huge payoff and long odds of success, so obviously he'll get most of his calls "wrong.") As for bringing fights to Twitter, Taleb says one of the following conditions must be in place. ...his critics 1) use "straw man arguments" (misrepresenting my ideas to critique them), 2) transform low probability bets into deterministic predictions, 3) mistake P/L for prediction. So there you go. If Taleb feels that you use straw man arguments, or don't understand the nature of probabilistic predictions. And if he would have been inclined to attack you in private, he feels compelled to attack you all out on Twitter. Meanwhile, check out John Aziz's explanation of why he started the whole fight on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsInteresting market thoughts here by Sam Stovall of S&amp;P who notes that 2014 should be much more turbulent than 2013: FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Bobby YipChina's State Council has issued a new set of guidelines — known as Document No. 107 — to curb the country's massive shadow banking system. Only senior executives received the document. Societe Generale's Wei Yao thinks it is a "trial balloon, in order to gauge the potential response of financial institutions and so probably still open to further revisions." Here's a breakdown of what the policy targets according to Yao: Meanwhile, the China Banking Regulatory Commission (CBRC) issued a draft of its document No. 9 late last year which is focused on shadow banking activities that are "disguised as interbank activities," writes Yao. The latest Chinese debt audit showed that local government debt has ballooned to 17.9 trillion renminbi ($2.8 trillion), from 10.7 trillion renminbi in 2010. That's up nearly 67%. Rising local government debt has had many concerned about an impending financial crisis in China. And shadow banking has been one of the main sources of credit for local governments. Part of the problem is that local governments borrowed from commercial banks and trusts which have high interest rates and short durations, about six months to three years. But these have been used to finance long-term construction projects, many of which don't pay off. "Document No. 107 would also be a logical step of managing local government debt risk," writes Yao. This also comes on the back of two spikes in money market rates, one in June and one in December. On both occasions it was argued that the People's Bank of China was pushing for tighter liquidity conditions. Yao previously pointed out that China's credit growth had been slowing and that Chinese officials are trying to "engineer a gradual deleveraging process." Patrick Chovanec at Silvercrest Asset Management thinks those making this argument are being optimistic. He points out that total credit growth has been up 20% this year from an already high base. "China’s leaders are riding a runaway train that they don’t quite know how to stop. And they’re running out of track," he wrote in a Bloomberg View column. Yao believes that if document 107 is confirmed, it supports her call for engineered deleveraging, which in turn will have a short-term negative impact of growth. Though all of this is key to more balanced economic growth. FREE AppDownload
This is no way to end up in the hospital, people. Falling stocks are stressing people out to the point of illness, according to a study conducted by the University of San Diego. After combing through California hospital patient records from 1983 to 2011, Professors Joseph Engelberg and Christopher A. Parsons found an inverse correlation between losses in the stock market, and increased hospital visits. If stocks drop 1.5% in one day, there's a 0.26% increase in hospital visits over the next two days, according to the study. Here's how they figured that out: First, we obtain admission records for every California hospital for each day from 1983 until 2011. Our proxy for the real-time psychological well being experienced by investors is the rate at which patients from a large population are admitted to hospitals, particularly for mental health conditions such as anxiety, panic disorder, or major depression.2 This measure has the benefit not only of being revealed versus self-reported, but also because it is constructed at daily intervals, facilitates causal inferences. We then form portfolios of stock returns that we think are relevant for California-based investors: 1) a broad-based market index, and 2) an index consisting only of local companies. Time series regressions tell us whether, and how quickly, the stock market impacts investor psychology. Of course, the researchers took a look at especially bad days for the stock market, like October 17th, 1987, also known as 'Black Monday. On that day, stocks fell almost 25% and hospital visits increased by 5%. Engelberg and Parsons also tried to calculate how much this stock induced stress could be costing California and the United States. They (very roughly) worked it out — considering trading days, the number of stress induced visits to the hospital, and the average cost of a visit to the hospital —  to be around $77 million for California and around $650 million for the U.S. annually. A few things Engelberg and Parsons drew from this that you should know. First, they conclude that investors are freaking out about what will happen to stocks in the future based on what's happening during a given trading day. That fear of what will happen tomorrow means that if the market goes back up, it doesn't necessarily mean investors will feel better. They're still traumatized from the fall down. It was like that with Black Monday hospital visits. According to the study, it didn't matter to stressed out Californians that half of the previous day's losses had been erased by October 20th. They were still scared sick. The study also pointed out that it's time "to think about the welfare implications associated with the widespread dissemination of financial information, on an almost minute-to- minute basis." Of course, to change that we'd have to decide to change the course of media history. There's no going back from having cellphones (and Bloomberg machines) equipped with Twitter and a 24 hour news cycle on television. But do investors have to take every drop in the stock market so physically? Just because Maria Bartiromo is losing it over the fiscal cliff at 4:00 p.m EST every day does that mean investors should too? (The study actually uses the fiscal cliff situation as an example, so clearly these guys are watching financial TV like we are.) Point is, don't let the stock market make you sick. Try not to stress yourself out. But if you do start to freak, deal with it like Wall Streeters have for ages — with exercise or scotch. FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVJonathan Golub.Six days into the new year, RBC's Jonathan Golub has become the second Wall Street strategist to boost his 2014 price target for the S&amp;P 500 index. The reason: stocks have risen quickly since the FOMC's December 18 decision to begin winding down the Federal Reserve's quantitative easing program, causing some to rethink just how good of a year it could be for the market. In a note to clients, Golub writes: Raising Our 2014 Price Target  On October 2, we introduced our 2014 S&amp;P 500 target at 1,950, based on EPS of $119 and $130 for 2014 and 2015. Further, we forecast that multiples would drift from 14.4x to 16.0x over the next several years, finishing 2014 at 15.0x. Our target was consistent with 16.0% potential upside through year-end 2014 (12.6% annualized).  The crux of the thesis that we laid out in October remains unchanged.  Slack in the economy will keep the Fed from disruptively removing accommodation  Risk-averse corporate behavior will drive EPS higher Valuations should renormalize closing the gap between earnings yields and interest rates We are raising our year-end 2014 price target to 2,075 from 1,950. The re-rating (re- normalization) process that we anticipated is happening faster than originally expected. Hence, we are raising our 2014 year-end-target multiple to 16.0x. Golub's 2075 target now makes him — along with JPMorgan's Tom Lee, who is also forecasting 2075 on the index by the end of the year — the most bullish strategist on Wall Street. Last week, Tobias Levkovich, Citi's chief U.S. equity strategist, hiked his 2014 S&amp;P 500 target, citing similar factors. "The S&amp;P 500 has basically achieved its mid-2014 target as tapering delays and fiscal progress have contributed to lower risk premiums and higher P/E multiples," wrote Levkovich. "When laying out a 12-month view in May 2013, the notion of 1,800-1,850 on the S&amp;P 500 by June 2014 was considered likely, but these gains have been pulled forward into 2013." FREE AppDownload
Gold just got slammed by a big trade. Check out the chart below (via Nanex). As the volume sub-graph shows, over 10,000 futures contracts were traded at 10:14 AM ET, seeing the price of the metal fall from $1245.50 an ounce to a low of $1212.60 before rebounding back to current levels around $1234. Nanex FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yuya Shino Kiyomura Co's President Kiyoshi Kimura (C), who runs a chain of sushi restaurants, poses for pictures with a 230 kg (507 lbs) bluefin tuna at his sushi restaurant outside Tsukiji fish market in Tokyo January 5, 2014.Every year, on the first Saturday in January, Japan makes a grand statement to the global fishing community by putting an exorbitant price on the head of a single bluefin tuna. At the famous Tsukiji fish market in Tokyo, the first bluefin auction of the year represents many things: growing consumer demand forbluefin sashimi, the exploitation of natural resources, the collapse of a species, shortsightedness in the face of impending doom to the entire ocean, a depraved publicity stunt.  In 2013, Kiyoshi Kimura, the owner of a Japanese sushi restaurant chain, paid $1.76 million for the first bluefin at Tsukiji, which weighed 489 pounds. Kimura had paid $736,000—a world-record price at the time—for the first tuna of 2012. That fish weighed 593 pounds.  It's no surprise, then, that journalists were steeling themselves for what was sure to come on January 4, 2014: If the past decade's trend in pricing continued, this year's first tuna would surely fetch more than a million dollars. But the Tsukiji fish market bucked tradition this weekend and sold its first tuna to Kimura, yet again, for a mere $70,000. That's still way more money than most bluefin go for in Japan. But compared to what everyone was expecting—an extravagant sum to start off the new year and remind us that these are the most prized fish in the sea—that's one crazy cheap tuna. Courtesy of The Atlantic Although the significance of the almost-$2 million tuna in 2013 was recognized worldwide, not everyone agreed on what that said about the actual value of global tuna stocks. It was tempting to see the price surge as a function of the fish's rarity, but then why weren't restaurants raising the prices of the bluefin dishes on their menus? Andrew David Thaler, who writes about the ocean on his blog Southern Fried Science, had this to say about the many factors at play in the Tsukiji auction last January: I’m certain that we’ll see this number presented as an argument against bluefin tuna fishing, as an example of an industry out-of-control, and as a symbol of how ruthlessly we'll hunt the last few members of a species to put on our dinner plates. These issues are reflected in the tuna market, but I want to urge caution in drawing too many conclusions from this record breaking number. There are several issues in play at the first tuna auction of the year, and only some of them relate to the tuna fishery. Among the patrons of the Tsukiji fish auction, it is considered an honor to buy the first bluefin of the new years, and bidding wars reflect this fight for status. The massive international headlines that follow the purchase of such a fish is free advertising for the winner. As many auction-goers know, landing a high, early win is a way of marking your territory and letting your competitors know that you have the bankroll to push them out of a bidding war. If $1.8 million is actually what this fish is worth to the consumer, it would sell for a hefty $345 at the dinner table, minimum. The owner, Kiyoshi Kimura, reports that the tuna will be sold at a huge loss–about $4.60 per serving. All three species of bluefin tuna are currently overfished, and over the last few years attempts to protect bluefin tuna have been thwarted by fishing interests in Japan, New Zealand, the United States, and Mediterranean countries, among others. While this record breaking sale should serve a clarion call for increased scrutiny of the global tuna trade, it does not accurately reflect the market value of the fish. What should we make of the dramatic nosedive in bluefin bidding at this year's auction? To answer that, we need to understand how this species rose to such prestige in the first place.   In the 1960s, no one wanted bluefin. In the United States, the fish sold for pennies per pound, and it was usually ground up for cat food. Japan fished for it, but few people there liked the bluefin's bloody, fatty meat. Then sushi bars started cropping up in America, and Americans developed a taste for toro—the prime meat of the bluefin's belly. By the 1970s, the Japanese had also developed a taste for bluefin. NOAA All of a sudden, bluefin was one of the most sought-after fish not only by Japanese fishermen but also by American and Canadian ones. According to theInternational Union for Conservation of Nature, between 1970 and 1990 fishing for bluefin in the Western Atlantic increased by more than 2,000 percent. The average price paid to Atlantic fishermen for bluefin exported to Japan rose by 10,000 percent. And it was mostly all being exported to Japan. Even today, a bluefin caught off the coast of New Hampshire will be shipped off to Tokyo before ending up on sushi plates somewhere else.   International Scientific Committee for Tuna and Tuna-like Species in the North Pacific OceanBefore the 1970s, only Japan and the U.S. fished for bluefin, and in the U.S. it was mostly ground up for cat food. Then Japan started paying to import vast quantities for sushi, and a handful of other countries got in on the action.  The graph above was published in a 2013 stock assessment by the International Scientific Committee for Tuna and Tuna-like Species in the North Pacific Ocean. It was this stock assessment that prompted the Pew Environment Group to announce, just days after Kimura bought his tuna for $1.76 million, that global bluefin tuna stock has declined by 96.4 percent from pre-1950 levels. That this year's first tuna sold for $70,000 instead of $2 million could be a positive sign that the Japanese are more aware of the bluefin's plight and no longer wish to call attention to their harvest—or it could mean that all is really lost for this fish, and people just don't care how rare it is anymore.  There are a lot of numbers in this story, but when I think of bluefin tuna, I don't see percentages or dollar signs. The first thing I ever learned about this fish came from reading Carl Safina's book Song for the Blue Ocean. Not 500 words into Chapter One, Safina describes sighting a bluefin in the Atlantic: What caught my eye was a faint chevron bulging ever so slightly from that molten, glassy sea, fifty yards from where I sat adrift. As I rose to my feet to study it, the chevron grew to a distinct wake. A wake without a boat. The wake ran along the surface for a few seconds, accelerated, and exploded like a revelation. A giant bluefin tuna, among the largest and most magnificent of animals, hung suspended for a long, riveting moment, emblazoned and backlit like a saber-finned warrior from another world, until its six hundred pounds of muscle crashed into the ocean like a boulder falling from the sky. The jagged tear it left in the sea was marked by an emerald patch of fine bubbles rising slowly to the surface until the spot healed, slowly turned blue again, and became indistinguishable. ... Ashore, the vision of that giant tuna never dissipated. I've never seen a bluefin, but Safina's description of the fish has burned bright in my mind ever since I read that book.  REUTERS/Issei KatoSushi of high-quality fatty Atlantic bluefin tuna or "o-toro sushi nigiri" are served at a sushi restaurant in Tokyo.There's more. Safina flies over the Gulf of Maine one morning with a professional fish spotter, and they encounter a hundred of these tuna on the move:  About a hundred giant bluefin tuna are traveling peacefully just under the surface. The animals I am looking at are so large, I expect them to behave like dolphins; that they are not coming to the surface to breathe air feels somehow uncomfortable. I have to remind myself—it seems so odd—that these large creatures are truly fish.  Close your eyes. Think fish. Do you envision half a ton of laminated muscle rocketing through the sea as fast as you drive your automobile? Do you envision a peaceful warrior capable of killing you unintentionally with a whack of its tail? These giant tuna strain the concept of fish. The giant tuna rise in unison, their backs breaking wakes like a flotilla of small boats. As they continue cruising, one of them splashes and sprints forward a few yards, like a thoroughbred jittery before a race, its behavior hinting strongly of enormous power in repose. What sense of the world, what feeling, moves this animal? Is it impatient? Is it thinking? If you're moved more by literature than by charts and graphs, like I am, but you don't have access to Safina's book, then another great way to learn about the bluefin is by reading this essay, by John Seabrook, published in Harper'smagazine in 1994. In "Death of a Giant," Seabrook cites a $30,000 tuna as evidence that it's the most valuable wild animal in the world. Twenty years later, prices are even higher—and the extinction Seabrook ponders is that much closer.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidISM non-manufacturing (services)  fell to 53 in December, from 53.9 the previous month. This missed expectations for a rise to 54.7. The employment sub-index however surged to 55.8, from 52.5, up 3.3 percentage points. Business activity, new orders, and new export orders all fell in December. Here are some anecdotal responses from the survey: Here's the breakdown: ISM Services Earlier today we got Markit's U.S. services PMI which fell to 55.7 in December, from 55.9 the previous month. FREE AppDownload
Google ImagesNovember Factory orders came in at 1.8%, basically in-line with expectations and up from a revised decline of 0.5% in October, the Census said.  On an overall dollar basis, orders reached $497.9 billion, the highest level since the series was first published on a NAICS basis in 1992. Excluding  transportation, new orders increased 0.6 percent.   The data has now climbed two of the past three months. Orders fell 0.5% in October. Shipments also hit an all-time nominal recorded high. FREE AppDownload
Different cultures can have radically different leadership styles, and international organizations would do well to understand them. British linguist Richard D. Lewis charted these differences in his book "When Cultures Collide," first published in 1996 and now in its third edition, and he teaches these insights in seminars with major corporate clients. From structured individualism in the U.S. to ringi-sho consensus in Japan, the charts seem intuitively correct, if not unilaterally true across a country. Lewis acknowledges the risks of dealing in stereotypes: "Determining national characteristics is treading a minefield of inaccurate assessment and surprising exception. There is, however, such a thing as a national norm." He argues that these patterns won't change any time soon: "Even in countries where political and economic change is currently rapid or sweeping, deeply rooted attitudes and beliefs will resist a sudden transformation of values when pressured by reformists, governments or multinational conglomerates." With permission from the author, we are posting 24 charts of leadership styles from his book, with a brief summary of his comments about each below: crossculture.comBritish managers are diplomatic, casual, helpful, willing to compromise, and seeking to be fair, though they can be ruthless when necessary. Unfortunately, their adherence to tradition can result in a failure to comprehend differing values in others. American managers are assertive, aggressive, goal and action oriented, confident, vigorous, optimistic, and ready for change. They are capable of teamwork and corporate spirit, but they value individual freedom and their first interest is furthering their own career. French managers tend to be autocratic and paternalistic, with an impressive grasp of the many issues facing their company. Opinions of experienced middle managers and technical staff may be dismissed. Swedish management is decentralized and democratic. The rationale is that better informed employees are more motivated and perform better. The drawback is that decisions can be delayed. German managers strive to create a perfect system. There is a clear chain of command in each department and information and instructions are passed down from the top. Nonetheless, considerable value is placed on consensus. East Asian countries tend to have a Confucian hierarchy, where the group is sacred and leaders are seen as benevolent. In Latin and Arab countries, authority is concentrated in the chief executive, and family relations are very important, with ubiquitous nepotism. Under the auspices of an autocratic government, Indonesia's business leadership is often entrusted to a resident Chinese professional class. Leadership in the Netherlands is based on merit, competence, and achievement. Managers are vigorous and decisive, but consensus is mandatory, as there are many key players in the decision-making process. Japanese top executives have great power in conformity with Confucian hierarchy but actually have little involvement in the everyday affairs of the company. Efforts made by Russian managers to promote business through official channels may founder on the rocks of bureaucracy and Russian apathy. Using key people and personal alliances, the “system” is often bypassed and a good result achieved. Australian managers, like Swedes, must sit in the ring with the “mates.” From this position, once it is accepted that they will not pull rank, they actually exert much more influence than their Swedish counterparts, as the semi-Americanized nature of Australian business requires quick thinking and rapid decision making. Finnish leaders exercise control from a position just outside and above the ring of middle managers, who are allowed to make day-today decisions. Finnish top executives have the reputation of being decisive at crunch time and do not hesitate to stand shoulder to shoulder with staff and help out in crises. Spanish leaders, like French, are autocratic and charismatic. Unlike the French, they work less from logic than from intuition, and pride themselves on their personal influence on all their staff members. Nepotism is also rife in traditional Indian companies. Family members hold key positions and work in close unison. Policy is also dictated by the trade group, e.g. fruit merchants, jewelers, etc. These groups work in concert, often develop close personal relations and come to each other’s support in difficult times. In democratic Norway, the boss is very much in the center of things, and staff enjoy access to him or her most of the time. Middle managers’ opinions are heard and acted upon in egalitarian fashion, but top executives rarely abandon responsibility and accountability. The older generation of Lithuanian managers has not completely freed themselves of bureaucratic habits from Soviet times, but young leadership is developing a more dynamic style, with Nordic encouragement. Despite external pressures, the Polish retain many traditional romantic values. However, meritocracy increasingly dominates advancement in place of aristocracy. Consensus is generally highly valued in China. In companies controlled by the state, a leadership group will decide policy. In the developing expansion of capitalist-style companies, leaders are emerging with reputations of competence; also, locally elected officials are becoming influential in the business sphere and may have only loose ties with Beijing. Lacking an aristocracy, Israeli society attaches importance to achievement and dynamism when looking for leadership. Traditionally, many Black South African societies were based on clans and lineages. This type of leadership still exists, but economic change, when South Africa became part of the total worldwide system of economic production and exchange, has weakened clan and tribal influence. Turkish managers are still influenced by the tenets of Kemal Ataturk. A democratic republic is partially supported by the army, in a delicate balance with Islamic Fundamentalists. Estonians are very individualistic. Status is gained by achievement, decisiveness, and energy. Similar to Estonians, Latvians are individualistic. Everybody wants to be not so much a leader, but a manager in his or her own right. However, there is a tendency to respect firm, confident, knowledgeable leadership. Charts taken and text summarized from "When Cultures Collide" with permission from author Richard Lewis.
REUTERS/Rick WilkingOn Dec. 18, the Federal Reserve announced it would taper its monthly purchases of Treasury and mortgage bonds, a stimulus program intended to keep rates low and lending activity up. As expected, interest rates rose, with 30-year mortgage rates climbing 3.4% to about 4.5%. But despite the rising cost of home ownership, homebuilder stocks have been among the best performers during this period, according to Morgan Stanley's Adam Parker. That's because there was apparently enough momentum in the housing market to allow the housing market to power through any headwind rising rates may have caused. Housing starts were up more than 22% in November compared with October, and prices measured by Case-Shiller climbed for the 17th-straight month in October. Parker: "We should note that corporate events and company- specifics such as earnings reports, and macro drivers like strong housing data are also in some cases driving returns - and probably have nothing to do with the tapering. Overall, one clearly different conclusion is that home builders performed well recently due to strong housing data and were not negatively impacted by tapering this time the way the specter of higher rates negatively impacted them last May.  Here's the table: Morgan Stanley FREE AppDownload
H. Ty Warner, he of Beanie Baby fame, is trying to avoid prison time for evading taxes on secret Swiss bank accounts that held over $100 million, Bloomberg's David Voreacos reports. Warner, the billionaire founder of the once-mega popular toy, faces 46 months to 57 months in prison. His lawyers argue that his behavior was essentially no different from other tax evaders who have gotten probation. In 2009, Warner's Swiss bank, UBS, turned over a trove of client names (including Warner's) to the Justice Department as part of a deal with the U.S. government, Bloomberg reports. Then the IRS rejected his application for its "voluntary disclosure program" on the grounds that they already knew about Warner's Swiss accounts before UBS gave them up.  From Bloomberg: In pleading guilty, Warner admitted to opening an account at UBS in 1996 and transferring $93.6 million in 2002 to Zuercher Kantonalbank, a small Swiss bank. He filed a false return in 2002 that reported income of $49.1 million, while omitting his UBS income of $3.2 million. He also didn’t file a Treasury Department form called a Report of Foreign Bank and Financial Accounts, known as an FBAR. He amended his 2002 return in 2007, yet still understated his tax by $885,300. In pleading guilty, Warner acknowledged that from 1999 through 2007, he underreported his gross income by $24.4 million. Warner's sentencing is scheduled for January 14. Read the full report at Bloomberg » FREE AppDownload
There are now one million Bitcoin wallets on Blockchain.info, the principal transaction ledger for the digital currency, Coindesk's Nermin Hajdarbegovic.  That number has doubled in less than three months — in November, Blockchain had just 500,000 wallets. And it started 2013 with around 100,000 users (users can possess multiple wallets). Bitcoin prices on the Mt. Gox exchange climbed back above $1,000 this weekend, as as online gaming company Zynga announced it had begun testing accepting payments in Bitcoin. As of this morning stand at $1,025.  Clarkmoody  FREE AppDownload
The financial crisis and housing bust came with kids moving back in with their parents and parent moving back in with their kids.  In many cases, kids just never moved out. UBS's top economist Maury Harris has argued for a while that the rise in shared households represented pent-up demand, which could eventually acted as a bullish force in the housing market. "Households' further venting of delayed, pent-up demand has been a key theme underlying our 50 basis points above-consensus forecast of 3% calendar average 2014 real GDP growth," wrote Harris in a research note to clients. "In 2013 a lower personal saving rate, renewed household borrowing, accelerating consumer durable goods spending growth and improved home sales were consistent with pent-up demand venting." He noted that the latest data from the Census Bureau showed a deceleration in household formation in Q3. But longer-term, he's confident that shared households will continue to fall as a percentage of total households. "Looking ahead, the extent of "doubling up" usually remains critical for household formation," wrote Harris. "In 2014 and 2015 we expect further declines in the still relatively percent of households that are shared residences as unemployment rates for young adults continue to decrease." "We see the unemployment rate, which stood at 7.3% in Q313, declining to 6.4% by Q414, with downside risks." UBS FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ray StubblebineThe Dream Team.With 2013 officially over, it's accountability time. We spoke to TipRanks, a service that allows you to track the success of market analysts based on comments they make in the media, to find out who on Wall Street made the best calls last year. TipRanks  measures analysts' "success rate" based on how their calls perform relative to the S&amp;P 500 and the statistical difficulty of their calls.* Here's what they found: 1. Corey Davis, Jefferies Pharmaceuticals  [Vanda (VNDA), Acelrx Pharmaceuticals (ACRX), Elan Corporation (ELN), Forest Labs (FRX), Endo Health (ENDP), Valeant Pharmaceuticals (VRX), Salix (SLXP), Antares Pharmaceuticals (ATRS)] Success Rate: 92% Average Return: +16.6% Most successful recommendation of 2013: AcelRx (+76.7%) “We see a clear market opportunity for ARX-01 given the current standard of care for post-op pain control is fraught with drawbacks.” 2. Daniel Fannon, Jefferies Asset Management [T. Rowe Price (TROW), Intercontinetal Exchange (ICE), The Blackstone Group (BX), Affiliated Managers (AMG), CME Group (CME), Invesco Ltd. (IVZ), Icahn Enterprises L.P. (IEP)] Success Rate: 88% Average Return: +5.3% Most successful recommendation of 2013: Invesco Ltd. (+15.9%) “Our estimates are moving modestly higher, mostly due to domestic equity market gains, as well as improving fee rates and generally higher flow assumptions. We believe AMG and IVZ are poised for strong flows and positive earnings revisions.” 3. Ella Ji, Oppenheimer Chinese consumer and business service companies [E-House (China) (EJ), Noah Holdings (NOAH), Melco Crown (MPEL), China Distance Education, Holdings Ltd. (DL), New Oriental Education (EDU), Suntech Power (STPFQ)] Success Rate: 100% Average Return: +33.8% Most successful recommendation of 2013: China Distance Education Holdings (+60.5%) “We are upgrading DL to Outperform from Perform and introducing an $8 target. Momentum in its core accounting test prep services has picked up, and we anticipate a 23%/35% revenue/EPS CAGR for FY12-14.” 4. Mark Mahaney, RBC Capitalist Internet Stocks [Twitter (TWTR), Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO), Wix.com Ltd. (WIX), Facebook (FB), Netflix (NFLX), Google (GOOG), Priceline.com (PCLN), Pandora (P), Amazon (AMZN), Ebay (EBAY), AOL Inc. (AOL)] Success Rate: 72% Average Return: +12.5% Most successful recommendation of 2013: Twitter (+126.4%) “Twitter is becoming an essential service for consumers, businesses, media companies, and advertisers.” 5. Arvind Bhatia, Sterne Agee Interactive Entertainment, Digital Entertainment and Consumer [Electronic Arts (EA), Groupon Inc. (GRPN), Facebook Inc. (FB), GameStop (GME)] Success Rate: 78% Average Return: +11.4% Most successful recommendation of 2013: Groupon (+41.9%) “Eric and Ted will bring in a new CEO with a strong operating background to move the company forward, so they not only grow the top line but more importantly the bottom line.”  6. William Plovanic, Canaccord Genuity Medical Technology [Enteromedics Inc. (ETRM), MIMedx Group (MDXG),Stryker (SYK), Dexcom (DXCM), Insulet Corp. (PODD), NuVasive (NUVA) Globus Medical (GMED), Cyberonics (CYBX)] Success Rate: 100% Average Return: +11.9% Most successful recommendation of 2013: MiMedX (+72.7%) “By our estimates, the dermal substitute segment of the advanced wound care market generated ~$345M of revenues in 2012, growing ~23% per year since 2009.” 7. Christopher O’Cull, KeyBanc Food Service [Domino’s Pizza (DPZ), Red Robin Gourmet Burger (RRGB), Jack In The Box (JACK), Brinker International (EAT), Ignite Restaurant Group (IRG), Texas Roadhouse (TXRH), Buffalo Wild Wings (BWLD)] Success Rate: 100% Average Return: +11.2% Most successful recommendation of 2013: Ignite Restaurant Group (+23.7%) “The company’s profits will eventually get a boost from it acquisition of Romano’s Macaroni Grill.” 8. Michael Olson, Piper Jaffray Online Media, Online Travel and Video Games [Chegg Inc. (CHGG), Universal Electronics (UEIC), TiVo Inc. (TIVO), Stratasys (SSYS), GameStop (GME), OpenTable (OPEN), Priceline (PCLN), Electronic Arts (EA), HomeAway (AWAY), Take-Two (TTWO)] Success Rate: 81% Average Return: +8.7% Most successful recommendation of 2013: GameStop (+44.0%) “We expect the PS4 will be a meaningful growth driver for GameStop as the retailer’s hardware market share has grown from 20% during 2006 [the time of the PS3’s launch] to 35% today.” 9. Gary Balter, Credit Suisse Home Improvement [Container Store Group (TCS), Sears Holdings (SHLD), Best Buy Co. (BBY), Bed Bath and Beyond (BBBY), Ulta Salon (ULTA)] Success Rate: 90% Average Return: +12.6% Most successful recommendation of 2013: Ulta Salon (+24.9%) “While not having a permanent CEO and weaker gross margins in Q1 raise concerns, the question we asked is do we believe in the growth potential of the concept. … Given that our answer is yes, and given that yes implies a growth rate of 25% to 30% at a low 20's multiple, we now like that risk reward.   10. John Baugh, Stifel Nicolaus Home Furnishings [Mohawk Industries (MHK), Conn’s (CONN), Tempur Sealy (TPX), Owens Corning (OC), Select Comfort Corporation (SCSS), Furniture Brands (FBN), La-Z-Boy Inc. (LZB), Mattress Firm  (MFRM)] Success Rate: 90% Average Return: +12.1% Most successful recommendation of 2013: Furniture Brands (+56.6%) “We believe some form of liquidation of the company or bankruptcy filing is imminent.” 11. Timothy Ramey, D.A. Davidson Food, Beverage and Nutrition Industries [Herbalife (HLF), NuSkin (NUS), Tyson Foods (TSN), Flowers Foods (FLO), Smithfield Food (SFD), Balchem Corp (BCPC), Constellation Brands Inc. (STZ)] Success Rate: 77% Average Return: +5.8% Most successful recommendation of 2013: NuSkin (+38.0%) “ I am valuation sensitive on NUS as it has reestablished a somewhat premium evaluation.” 12. Victor Anthony, Topeka Capital Media and Internet Sectors [Twitter (TWTR), Google (GOOG), Ebay Inc. (EBAY), Amazon (AMZN), Facebook (FB), AOL Inc. (AOL), Shutterfly (SFLY)] Success Rate: 67% Average Return: 9% Most successful recommendation of 2013: Twitter (+125.9%) “We believe that Twitter’s user and advertising monetization platform is in the early innings. We see a well-defined ecosystem with strong network effects developing around Twitter that should lead to out-sized shareholder returns for years to come. As such, we recommend investors buy the shares of Twitter to capture upside from Twitter’s value creation engine.” ------------------------------------------------*Here's the methodology from TipRanks: TipRanks looks at a variety of benchmarks, including the traditional % average over the S&amp;P 500 and performance success rate.  But, we go far beyond this information in our ranking over the analysts. When it comes to evaluating adviser performance, we not only measure how much an analyst outperforms a specific benchmark, but also how consistent they are in doing so. As such, TipRanks uses the statistical Z-test to determine the statistical viability / consistency of financial advisers stock recommendations against a benchmark. Z-test enables answering tough questions when it comes to comparing financial advisor performance, for example: ·         Which adviser has a better success rate, one that gave 10 recommendations out of which 7 outperformed the benchmark (70%) or one that gave 100 recommendations out of which 68 outperformed the benchmark (68%)? While 70% is greater than 68%, achieving a 68% success rate over 100 recommendations is “statistically harder” than achieving 70% over 10. ·         Which adviser has a higher excess return over the benchmark, one that gave 10 recommendations and outperformed the benchmark by 3.2% or one that gave 100 recommendations and outperformed the benchmark by ‘only’ 3%?To measure the adviser performance against the benchmark, TipRanks calculates the Z-score the recommendation set given by each adviser and can thus compare an adviser with 10 recommendations to an adviser that gave 100 recommendations. FREE AppDownload
Twitter is down 6% in pre-market trading this morning.  The stock was hit with a downgrade to "under weight," from "equal weight" by Scott Devitt at Morgan Stanley. (We think this is the equivalent of going from "hold" to "sell".) Devitt has a $33 price target on Twitter. The stock closed at $69 on Friday. So, for what it's worth, he's been wrong on the price all along.  In his note, he says he thinks Facebook and Google are better stocks to own.  His downgrade is largely based on valuation. He illustrates Twitter's valuation relative to peers in this table: Screenshot And here is Devitt's short synopsis of his view on Twitter: Twitter currently trades at a premium to peers and is above our bull case, which assumes that brands will strongly embrace Twitter’s Amplify TV tie-in product. However, as the competition for online ad revenue intensifies, we see TV ad budgets as most likely to go to the largest distribution platforms such as YouTube and Facebook first, and then later to smaller platforms including Twitter.  Where we could be wrong: Near-term consensus estimates appear conservative; if so, any positive estimate revisions following 4Q2013 results in Late January or February may provide a near-term boost to the stock.    FREE AppDownload
MarkitSubcomponents of Markit's U.S. services PMI.The final results of Markit's monthly U.S. services Purchasing Managers Index survey were indicative of a minor slowdown in the American services sector in December, as the report's headline index fell to 55.7 from November's 55.9 reading. Preliminary results of the survey, released in mid-December, estimated that the index would improve to 56.0. The employment subcomponent rose to 55.2 from November's 52.4 reading, suggesting an acceleration in hiring in services industries last month. The table shows subcomponents of the index.  Click here for the full release » FREE AppDownload
During the first 11 months of 2013, bond funds had net inflows of only $16 billion (with $111 billion in outflows from June through November), while equity funds had net inflows of $193 billion. This may be the start of the so-called “Great Rotation” from bonds to stocks by retail investors. By the way, over the past 12 months through November, the combined net inflows into equity mutual funds and ETFs totaled a record $388 billion. The WSJ ran an article at the end of last year (12/25) titled, “Companies Binge on Share Buybacks.” For the past couple of years, this has been a story I’ve often told to explain what’s driving the bull market. Recently released data show that S&amp;P 500 companies repurchased $128 billion of their shares during Q3. They paid out $79 billion in dividends during that quarter and a record $85 billion during Q4. The $207 billion sum of buybacks and dividends for Q3 is just shy of the $233 billion record high during Q3-2007. Since the start of the bull market during Q1-2009 through Q3-2013, share buybacks totaled $1.6 trillion and dividends totaled $1.2 trillion, summing to a whopping $2.8 trillion! Corporate cash flow rose to a new record high of $2.3 trillion (saar) during Q3. Yet nonfinancial corporate net bond issuance totaled a record $665 billion over the past four quarters through Q3, with issuers using some of the proceeds to buy back their shares. Buybacks are likely to remain strong in 2014. Now imagine the melt-up potential of the stock market if the Great Rotation by retail investors from bonds into stocks continues to build momentum. And by the way, January has a history of being a good month for inflows into equity mutual funds. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Anatomy of a Melt-Up. (1) Updating three scenarios. (2) And the 2013 winner is: Rational Exuberance. (3) Will Irrational Exuberance get the 2014 award? (4) A year to pack our bags in May? (5) Stampeding bulls. (6) The Great Rotation is picking up steam. (7) Buybacks approaching record highs. (8) Forward P/Es could head into the high teens. (9) Fed may have to speed up tapering. (10) No soft patch in latest US economic data. (11) “American Hustle” (+ +). (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
You would be surprised at the amount of time you can save on your Mac computer with the knowledge of a few keyboard shortcuts. Here are some simple ones that can boost your productivity.  Produced by Justin Gmoser. Follow BI Video: On Facebook    
REUTERS/Carlo AllegriMmm hmm. Mm hm. Mm hm.Dave Lutz of Stifel Nicolaus has a roundup of what traders are chatting about ahead of the U.S. market open. Good Morning, and welcome to “Blue Monday” – the most “miserable” day of the year!   US futures are shrugging that off, gaining small but near overnight highs.   European Markets are starting on a decent footing, with the DAX gaining 30bp, but Spain is surging on Economic data – helping the EU fins to jump over 1% today.  Volumes remain very light in Europe, with most markets trading 25% light to recent 20day averages.    It was a touch bloody over in Asia, with Shanghai down almost 2% to a 5 month lows on weak PMI data, IPO resumption concerns and a fresh move against Shadow Banking – Hong Kong lost 60bp after Friday’s 2.2% whack, and Nikkei retreated 2.4% from a 6year peak as the Yen is popping.   South Korea outperformed as their FX got hit into their Central Bank Decision Thursday, and Samsung had been up almost 2% into the CES kickoff today.    Many eyes remain on the “Fragile Five” Emerging markets that are most impacted from Tapering – Turkey seems at the epicenter, and was up small despite the Lira hitting a fresh record low against the Greenback.   Single Stock movers in the US include SIRI surging 8% (Liberty Deal) – SCTY up 6% (GS Upgrade) – DDD up 2% (CES).   Losers include FSLR (Off 5%, GS Downgrade) – TWTR off 3.5% (MS Downgrade).  Watch the Airlines, as over 9,000 flights have been cancelled over the last 4 days.  The US 10YY is back under 3% as money is rotating from PIIGS debt on profittaking after the recent surge higher – The DXY is under slight pressure, as both the Euro and Yen catch a bid into this week’s FOMC minutes and US Employment report.   This is a tailwind for commodities, and we see Gold holding recent gains, Nat Gas jumping 1.5% (Weather), Crude popping 1% led by Brent (MENA disruptions) – and we also see a decent bid under Agricultural commodities as the Record Cold Temps have concerns about Crop Yields. We have our ISM services number at 10, along with November’s Factory Orders print.   We have a very small POMO operation, but focus will be on Congress coming back in session, where the Yellen Confirmation vote is slated for 5:30 tonight.   The Tech traders will have their hands full with the Consumer Electronics Show in Vegas this week – there are press events today scheduled from LG (11), Sharp (12), Panasonic, Huawei (1), DISH (2), QCOM (3), INTC (4), Samsung (5) and Sony at 8.   (All times in Eastern)   Earnings Season kicks off on Thursday with AA.  FREE AppDownload
The final letter of the series will discuss what I see as potentially developing in the markets this year, but such prognostication has to be framed within the context of two larger and far more important streams. Next week we will examine the larger economic problems facing much of the developed world, and specifically we'll consider the Era of Unfulfilled Expectations. What happens when governments and central banks find it impossible to live up to the promises that they have made to their constituencies? Throw in a mix of frustrating demographics and disastrous economic policy choices, and you have a witch's brew of uncertainties. Thankfully, an even greater force of progress will ultimately overwhelm the unintended consequences of meddling governments to ultimately deliver a very positive future, even if the the benefits are somewhat unevenly distributed in the shorter term. In this week's letter we'll look at the economic effects of the Age of Transformation, countering the arguments that call for a bleak, low-growth future wherein all the marvelous innovations that have occurred in the course of the human experience are behind us. Are we not to see yet again a development with the impact of the steam engine, electrical grid, telecommunications, or combustion engine? I think we will – in fact, fundamental, life-changing innovations are happening all around us today. We are just looking in the wrong places, expecting the future to resemble the past. If the depressing models of zero future growth are right, then our investment choices should be far different than if we have an opt imistic view of the human experiment. Yes, we must balance our optimism with an appreciation of the uncertainties that will inevitably result from the antics of overreaching governments and their hubristic economic and monetary policies; but we must first and foremost have our eyes wide open to possibilities for growth. It might help to think of the process as one of exploration. I imagine a group of intrepid adventurers (I picture in my mind Daniel Boone) topping one mountain pass after another, each time gazing off into the distance … to the next mountain pass. Between them lie beautiful valleys and rivers – as well as parched deserts and dead-end canyons full of potentially hostile natives. So the path is both uncertain and unending, as we head toward some ultimate destination we can barely even speculate about. Such a journey should not be undertaken without a great deal of thought and preparation, and it helps if you can find an experienced guide to assist in the process. Before we set off on this week's leg of the journey, since this New Year's Thoughts from the Frontline is normally the most widely read issue of the year, let me welcome new readers and note that this weekly letter is free, and you can subscribe at http://www.MauldinEconomics.com. And feel free to send this letter on to your friends and associates – I hope it will spark a few interesting conversations. The End of Growth? There is a school of thought that sees the first and second industrial revolutions as having been driven by specific innovations that are so unique and so fundamental that they are unlikely to be repeated. Where will we find any future innovation that is likely to have as much impact as the combustion engine or electricity or (pick your favorite)? This is a widespread school of thought and is nowhere better illustrated than in the work of Dr. Robert Gordon, who is a professor of economics at Northwestern University and a Nobel laureate. I have previously written about his latest work, a paper called "Is US Economic Growth Over?" Before I audaciously suggest that he and other matriculants in his school of thought confuse the products of industrial revolutions with their causes, and thus despair over the prospects for future growth, let's examine a little bit of what he actually says. (You can of course read the original paper, linked above.) To do that we can turn to an article by Benjamin Wallace-Wells that I cited in Outside the Box last June. He explains Robert Gordon's views better than anyone I am aware of. "[T]he scope of his [Gordon's] bleakness has given him, over the past year, a newfound public profile," Wallace-Wells notes. Gordon offers us two key predictions, both discomfiting. The first pertains to the near future, when, he says, our economy will grow at less than half its average rate over the last century because of a whole raft of structural headwinds. His second prediction is even more unsettling. He thinks the forces that drove the second industrial revolution (beginning in 1870 and originating largely in the US) were so powerful and so unique that they cannot be equaled in the future. (A corollary view of Gordon's, mentioned only indirectly in Wallace-Wells's article, is that computers and the internet and robotics and nanotech and biotech are no great shakes compared to the electric grid and internal combustion engine, as forces for economic change. Which is where he and I part company.) Gordon thinks, in short, that we do not understood how lucky we have been, nor do we comprehend how desperately difficult our future is going to be. Quoting from Wallace-Wells: What if everything we've come to think of as American is predicated on a freak coincidence of economic history? And what if that coincidence has run its course? Picture this, arranged along a time line. For all of measurable human history up until the year 1750, nothing happened that mattered. This isn't to say history was stagnant, or that life was only grim and blank, but the well-being of average people did not perceptibly improve. All of the wars, literature, love affairs, and religious schisms, the schemes for empire-making and ocean-crossing and simple profit and freedom, the entire human theater of ambition and deceit and redemption took place on a scale too small to register, too minor to much improve the lot of ordinary human beings. In England before the middle of the eighteenth century, where industrialization first began, the pace of progress was so slow that it took 350 years for a family to double its standard of living. In Sweden, during a similar 200-year period, there was essentially no improvement at all. By the middle of the eighteenth century, the state of technology and the luxury and quality of life afforded the average individual were littl e better than they had been two millennia earlier, in ancient Rome. Then two things happened that did matter, and they were so grand that they dwarfed everything that had come before and encompassed most everything that has come since: the first industrial revolution, beginning in 1750 or so in the north of England, and the second industrial revolution, beginning around 1870 and created mostly in this country. That the second industrial revolution happened just as the first had begun to dissipate was an incredible stroke of good luck. It meant that during the whole modern era from 1750 onward – which contains, not coincidentally, the full life span of the United States – human well-being accelerated at a rate that could barely have been contemplated before. Instead of permanent stagnation, growth became so rapid and so seemingly automatic that by the fifties and sixties the average American would roughly double his or her parents' standard of living. In the space of a single generation, for most everybody, life was get ting twice as good. At some point in the late sixties or early seventies, this great acceleration began to taper off. The shift was modest at first, and it was concealed in the hectic up-and-down of yearly data. But if you examine the growth data since the early seventies, and if you are mathematically astute enough to fit a curve to it, you can see a clear trend: The rate at which life is improving here, on the frontier of human well-being, has slowed. "Some things," Gordon says, and he says it often enough that it has become both a battle cry and a mantra, "can happen only once." Gordon has two predictions to offer, the first of which is about the near future. For at least the next fifteen years or so, Gordon argues, our economy will grow at less than half the rate it has averaged since the late-nineteenth century because of a set of structural headwinds that Gordon believes will be even more severe than most other economists do: the aging of the American population; the stagnation in educational achievement; the fiscal tightening to fix our public and private debt; the costs of health care and energy; the pressures of globalization and growing inequality. Gordon's second prediction is almost literary in its scope. The forces of the second industrial revolution, he believes, were so powerful and so unique that they will not be repeated. The consequences of that breakthrough took a century to be fully realized, and as the internal combustion engine gave rise to the car and eventually the airplane, and electricity to radio and the telephone and then mass media, they came to rearrange social forces and transform everyday lives. Mechanized farm equipment permitted people to stay in school longer and to leave rural areas and move to cities. Electrical appliances allowed women of all social classes to leave behind housework for more fulfilling and productive jobs. Air-conditioning moved work indoors. The introduction of public sewers and sanitation reduced illness and infant mortality, improving health and extending lives. The car, mass media, and commercial aircraft led to a liberation from the narrow confines of geograp hy and an introduction to a far broader and richer world. Education beyond high school was made accessible, in the aftermath of World War II, to the middle and working classes. These are all consequences of the second industrial revolution, and it is hard to imagine how those improvements might be extended: Women cannot be liberated from housework to join the labor force again, travel is not getting faster, cities are unlikely to get much more dense, and educational attainment has plateaued. The classic example of the scale of these transformations is Paul Krugman's description of his kitchen: The modern kitchen, absent a few surface improvements, is the same one that existed half a century ago. But go back half a century before that, and you are talking about no refrigeration, just huge blocks of ice in a box, and no gas-fired stove, just piles of wood. If you take this perspective, it is no wonder that the productivity gains have diminished since the early seventies. The socia l transformations brought by computers and the Internet cannot match any of this. But even if they could, that would not be enough. "The growth rate is a heavy taskmaster," Gordon says. The math is punishing. The American population is far larger than it was in 1870, and far wealthier to begin with, which means that the innovations will need to be more transformative to have the same economic effect. "I like to think of it this way," he says. "We need innovations that are eight times as important as those we had before." [emphasis mine] It is hard not to nod your head as you peruse Gordon's work, as it is well-written and speaks to many of our prejudices. But it makes several assumptions that are wrong, in my opinion. First, we will not need innovations that are eight times as important. We just need eight times as many innovations. And there I bring hope, because we will see many times that number. Let's go back to James Watt and the steam engine. When Watt was tinkering with the power of steam, there were maybe a dozen scientists in all of Europe who could understand what he was doing and fewer who had access to his tools. Today we routinely throw 1000 scientists and engineers at what are relatively trivial problems. In the grand scheme of things, perhaps most of them are wasting their time. But certainly not all, and the number of scientists and engineers is multiplying at an exponential rate. Watt was able build his engine precisely because he was (1) building on significant research in a dozen different arenas (including metallurgy, fabrication, and mechanics) and (maybe more importantly!) (2) funded by an entrepreneurial investor who saw the potential for income from the invention. But the steam engine did not really take off until it was introduced to John Wilkinson, who immediately adapted his techniques for boring cannons to creating the cylinder for the steam engine, ultimately enabling the engine to increase its power by orders of magnitude. Other scientists and engineers tinkered, modified, adapted, improved, and collaborated until we had railroads and steam turbines and so on. The steam engine was not just one invention but a series of inventions. Watt was not really the creator of the steam engine, as the concept had been around for decades. He was simply the first to make an effective, commercially viable apparatus. The real sources of intellectual fuel and entrepreneurial oxygen that fired the Industrial Revolution were the cumulative mass of information available to scientists and inventors and the ability of entrepreneurs to profit from their own risk-taking ventures. Notice that for the vast bulk of human history up to the industrial age, feudal lords and dictators held tight control over the means of production and the ability to truly profit from personal endeavor. Let me employ a crude analogy but one that I think illustrates the point. If one inch were added to the circumference of the standard ping-pong ball, I think most of us could immediately tell the difference. A competent player could tell the difference if you added one inch to the circumference of the tennis ball. It would take a professional to tell the difference if you added one inch to the circumference of a regulation basketball. If you added one inch to the circumference of the earth, who would know? Or really even care? Think of the steam engine as adding one inch to the circumference of a tennis ball: the steam engine made a difference that competent inventors and manufacturers of the day definitely noticed! Are there likely to be innovations today that will have similarly profound effects, but on a global scale? I can think of a few, though they are mostly only discussed in science fiction novels now. Killer Robots Let's look at one small latter-day innovation, a rather trivial one in the grand scheme of things. Two centuries ago, 90% of American workers labored on farms. Today we are vastly more productive, with only 1.6% of American workers engaged in what we think of as the quintessential American activity, farming. And while agriculture has become highly mechanized, there is still shortage of labor for many activities. Lettuce has to be thinned. When you grow lettuce, you have to plant a large number of seeds close together and then come back after they germinate and thin them out. This is a labor-intensive process that typically takes 50 workers two days in a 15-acre field. Except now there is a new machine called Cesar that can do the entire process in three hours for a fraction of the cost. (You can watch a fun five-minute video on Bloomberg at Killer Robots.) In his famous work The Wealth of Nations, Adam Smith marveled at the technological innovation and manufacturing skill that it took to make a pin. The combination of technology and the division of labor made the cost-effective production of pins possible. Now think of the killer robot that thins lettuce. It is a remarkably complex and ingenious device that performs a very simple activity. How many thousands of inventions were required to make a machine that is so simple in its basic concept? The real-time pattern recognition that lets the machine instantly decide which plants live and which die is itself a technology that required numerous precursor inventions. And yet all this technology and performance is brought to fiscally conservative lettuce farmers at a cost that is compelling. Is the robotic lettuce thinner a fabulous invention? Absolutely. Will that robotic machine change civilization? No, of course not. It will simply make lettuce a little cheaper for you and me, and I doubt we will even notice the difference. But this is just one of a thousand innovations that are springing up in every tiny niche of the human experiment every day! We're talking about 10 million entrepreneurs waking up around the world every day trying to figure out how to deliver better products, how to be a little bit more productive, how to create something interesting that people will pay for. Most changes are so tiny or unimportant that they go largely unnoticed or are not even adopted. There were not many intellects on the level of James Watt's when he seized his opportunity in the mid-1700s. Today there are tens of thousands of James Watt-level minds tinkering in all sorts of fields. I would argue that their cumulative output is adding at least 10,000 inches to our "innovation globe" every day. Today the cost, per lumen of light, of illuminating an LED bulb is one millionth of what it was in the time of James Watt. And it will be 10 (or will it be 100?) times less expensive in 10 years as we shift to silicon-based LEDs. I've done business in Africa and understand the value and the cost of light. What happens when the production of light consumes miniscule amounts of solar power? How much more productive does Africa become? How do we measure that in terms of the quality and creative capacity of human experience? It is not just robotics. It is nanotech and biotech and telecommunications and artificial intelligence, all driven by the burgeoning and increasingly important field of information technology. It is the cumulative information from hundreds of thousands of inventions, innovations, and discoveries that allows for the individual creations developed by each of those 10 million entrepreneurs. And as more and more budding Einsteins, Newtons, and Watts gain access to education and information through the internet, the innovations will continue to compound and accelerate. The end of growth? Hardly. In 100 years we will look back and see the next 20 years as simply the beginning of the real acceleration of growth. However, classical economics as it is currently formulated will miss the story that is unfolding. With its focus on models and measuring, with its physics envy, economics persistently misses the real story. As George Gilder notes in his groundbreaking book Knowledge and Power: The central scandal of traditional economics has long been its inability to explain the scale of per capita economic growth over the last several centuries. It is no small thing. The sevenfold rise in world population since 1800 should have attenuated growth per capita. Yet the conventional gauges of per capita income soared some seventeen-fold, meaning 119-fold absolute increase in output in 212 years. And this is only the beginning of the story. The leading economic growth model, devised by the Nobel laureate Robert Solow of MIT, assigned as much as 80% of this advance to a "residual" – a factor left over after accounting for the factors of production in the ken of economists: labor, capital, and natural resources. In other words, economists can pretend to explain only 20% of the apparent 119-fold expansion. Earlier in his book, Gilder highlights the source of this mystery of the failure of economics.(all emphasis mine): The passion for finding the system in experience, replacing surprise with order, is a persistent part of human nature. In the late eighteenth century, when Smith wrote The Wealth of Nations, the passion for order found its fulfillment in the most astonishing intellectual achievement of the seventeenth century: the invention of the calculus. Powered by the calculus, the new physics of Isaac Newton and his followers wrought mathematical order from what was previously a muddle of alchemy and astronomy, projection and prayer. The new physics depicted a universe governed by tersely stated rules that could yield exquisitely accurate predictions. Science came to mean the elimination of surprise. It outlawed miracles, because miracles are above all unexpected. The elimination of surprise in some fields is the condition for creativity in others. If the compass fails to track North, no one can discover America. The world shrinks to a mystery of weather and waves. The breakthroughs of determinism in physics provided a reliable compass for three centuries of human progress. Inspired by Newton's vision of the universe as "a great machine," Smith sought to find similarly mechanical predictability in economics. In this case, the "invisible hand" of market incentives plays the role of gravity in classical physics. Codified over the subsequent 150 years and capped with Alfred Marshall's Principles of Economics, the classical model remains a triumph of the human mind, an arrestingly clear and useful description of economic systems and the core principles that allow them to thrive. Ign ored in all this luminous achievement, however, was the one unbridgeable gap between physics and any such science of human behavior: the surprises that arise from free will and human creativity. The miracles forbidden in deterministic physics are not only routine in economics; they constitute the most important economic events. For a miracle is simply an innovation, a sudden and bountiful addition of information to the system. Newtonian physics does not admit of new information of this kind – describe a system and you are done. Describe an economic system and you have described only the circumstances – favorable or unfavorable – for future innovation…. Flawed from its foundation, economics as a whole has failed to improve much with time. As it both ossified into an academic establishment and mutated into mathematics, the Newtonian scheme became an illusion of determinism in a tempestuous world of human actions. Economists became preoccupied with mechanical models of markets and uninterested in the willful people who inhabit them. Economics in general uses tools to measure growth that are inadequate at best and misleading at worst. As I've written elsewhere, the simple concept of inflation, except in a general sense, is so convoluted and so fraught with assumptions as to render any precise definition laughable. In economics as it is constructed today, we pay attention only to that which we can measure. If we can't measure it, surely it must be meaningless. We cling to our models and theories much as religious fanatics do to their understanding of the workings of God, as if somehow we can understand either. Some economists become obsessed with market efficiency and others with market failure. Generally held to be members of opposite schools – "freshwater" and "saltwater," Chicago and Cambridge, liberal and conservative, Austrian and Keynesian – both sides share an essential economic vision. They see their discipline as successful insofar as it eliminates surprise – insofar, that is, as the inexorable workings of the machine override the initiatives of the human actors. "Free market" economists believe in the triumph of the system and want to let it alone to find its equilibrium, the stasis of optimum allocation of resources. Socialists see the failures of the system and want to impose equilibrium from above. Neither spends much time thinking about the miracles that repeatedly save us from the equilibrium of starvation and death. The Primacy of Human Capital It is not just that Gordon and others miss the importance of information and entrepreneurial effort in industrial revolutions, missing the forest for the trees. It is that they miss the most important factor of all: capital. But not capital in the sense of money. I am thinking of capital in the more important way that Nobel laureate Gary Becker describes it: as human capital. It is the investments we have made in ourselves that have been the true source of economic growth. Education, training, information sharing, the transfer of knowledge have all been fundamental in the human experiment. The more open a society becomes, the more it shares its information and knowledge and the fruits of its labors, and the more empowered its people and the more productive its civilization become. As Isaac Newton said, "If I have seen further it is by standing on the shoulders of giants." In Newton's time, there were a handful of giants; today there are thousands. And because of their ubiquity, most go unnoticed. The division of labor, the most significant of Adam Smith's insights, means that there are just so many more small but important realms of human endeavor where giants can roam and have an impact. When was the last time we celebrated the giants of material sciences? Who are the Newtons of the world of ceramics? We may not be able to name them, yet their work has a profound impact on our lives. I daresay that our Killer Robot would not be possible without their seminal work. Or the work of thousands of other innovators. Yet those insights can walk out of a company at any moment. Ask Shockley Semiconductor (who, you ask? – which is the point) about losing Gordon Moore to Fairchild. Then Fairchild saw Gordon Moore leave to found Intel. It is the human capital that is truly important. It is human drive and determination and the ability to piece together disparate bits of information, along with the ability to develop and deploy an ever-increasing abundance of new tools, that is driving economic growth. They were fracking shale oil in the Permian Basin in the early 1950s. And fracking went nowhere until George Mitchell worked on the problem in the 1980s and '90s. And there are now hundreds of significant innovations and tens of thousands of scientists and engineers working in just that one small field of human endeavor that was pioneered by Mitchell. The Age of Transformation The next twenty years will see more technological change than we have seen in the last hundred years put together. My Dad would hitch up the wagon to drive seven miles to town in the 1920s. In twenty years the way we get around today will look just as quaint, though in different ways. Who was using the internet twenty years ago? Only early adopters had cell phones. The Human Genome Project was seen as an expensive joke unlikely to be completed in less than a few decades. Twenty years ago, robots were still very limited in scope, and AI had lost its mojo in the public eye. Only a few years earlier a serious Stanford physics professor said Qualcomm’s technology violated the laws of physics and was a hoax. Back then, Paul Krugman told us, The growth of the Internet will slow drastically, as the flaw in "Metcalfe's law" – which states that the number of potential connections in a network is proportional to the square of the number of participants – becomes apparent: most people have nothing to say to each other! By 2005 or so, it will become clear that the Internet's impact on the economy has been no greater than the fax machine's…. As the rate of technological change in computing slows, the number of jobs for IT specialists will decelerate, then actually turn down; ten years from now, the phrase information economy will sound silly. Not that I want to pick only on Krugman; he was expressing a widely held sentiment (although it's one I am sure you did not share – just those other guys who had no idea what the future held). The true power of the internet is not just in human conversation. That is such an anthropomorphic view. It’s also about what machines can communicate to one another for us; it's about distributed computing power. But that power is easy to underestimate or dismiss entirely, because most of us cannot imagine what the increases in processing power or network connectivity and speed or nanotech or (pick a technology) can do for us. But we don’t have to. Those ten million entrepreneurs lie awake nights thinking about those things for us. Nowhere else is the pace of scientific progress accelerating as fast as it is in the biological sciences. Already, biotech advances have outstripped the media's ability to stay abreast of important breakthroughs. This isn't surprising, as even scientists who work in one area are often unaware of major developments in other areas. One of the problems of the current explosion of information is the difficulty of simply keeping up with what is going on in your own field, let alone others. One of the new and important job descriptions is that of the generalist who can extrapolate and interpolate technological advances among disparate fields. The gap between public perception and scientific progress will only increase as exponential advances in computer technologies give researchers powerful new tools to solve mysteries long thought unsolvable. Nothing better demonstrates the acceleration of biotechnology than the following chart from the National Human Genome Research Institute. You probably know that the cost of computer processing power is cut in half every two years or so. That is (Gordon) Moore's Law. You may not know, however, that the cost of mapping an individual human genome is dropping at twice that rate. John Mauldin What does this mean? It means that more and more genomes will be sequenced and matched to individuals' medical histories. As this database grows, advanced mathematical tools running on increasingly powerful computers will reveal genetic causes for diseases as well as individualized solutions. Truly effective personalized medicine will finally displace primitive cookie-cutter therapies. Today a note came across my desk. A research group at Tel Aviv University has developed a computer algorithm that detects which genes can be "turned off" to create the same anti-aging effect as calorie restriction. Laboratory results confirmed the research done by computers, totally in silicon! This sort of work was not physically possible ten years ago, even in the most specialized labs. Now it is performed inside a computer without anyone even having to reach for a test tube. This is biotech research at the speed of light, powered by Moore’s Law. Today we do in mere days research that required years and massive amounts of money just ten years ago. Reading and interpreting the DNA found in your cells, however, is only half of the story. The other half is harnessing your own DNA to repair and replace cells damaged by trauma, disease, or aging itself. The most powerful therapies will analyze and utilize your own cells and DNA. This is why my colleague Patrick Cox (who writes our Transformational Technology Alert letter) and I volunteered to participate in a pilot project conducted by BioTime, Inc. We both donated cells taken from inside our left arms. Those cells were then multiplied many thousand of times. Some of these cells were used for complete genome sequencing. The results are, in fact, posted here for John and here for Patrick. This public posting of our genomes is somewhat historic for a number of reasons. One is that our genomes are linked with the world's most comprehensive library of genetic information, GeneCards, which is maintained by BioTime subsidiary LifeMap Sciences, in conjunction with the Weizmann Institute in Tel Aviv. In essence, LifeMap Sciences tracks and integrates all publicly known scientific information about the genome in this searchable database. Just a few weeks ago I was in a hotel lobby with BioTime CEO Mike West here in Dallas, and we were able to look at my genome results and see hundreds of links to research papers and a synopsis of what the research says about my particular genes. The web pages above have partial postings of our genome results today but in time will have full postings. There were good news/bad news aspects to my genes. The good news is that both Patrick and I have a relatively rare gene associated with Ashkenazi Jews that, along with some other genes, suggests we have a propensity to live a rather long time. (One of the researchers asked if we had such ancestry. For what it’s worth, neither of us do.) Since my mother is now 96, a gene that is associated with longevity is not much of a surprise. Patrick’s grandfather made it past 100. But the bad news is that I have several genes that are associated with a 3-6 times higher rate of multiple sclerosis and other genes associated with certain types of cancers. I will no longer argue with my doctor about that annoying prostate exam. And there are some weird genes in my mix. Who actually studies whether having a particular gene means you get larger mosquito bites? I apparently have one. As time goes by, Patrick and I will learn more as LifeMap Sciences posts finds ever more research and links it to their database. Pat good-humoredly asked if I worry about someone cloning me in 100 years, since all the data will be there. I laughed and said, “I really don’t care, but I would suggest they make some serious modifications to the original.” Given the trouble that 23andMe has recently had with the FDA, it should be pointed out that there are big differences between what that company did and what BioTime has done. First, 23andMe did a partial sequencing based on a saliva test, which is very different from a full sequencing using skin cells. Additionally, BioTime has not issued any statements or made any diagnoses that the FDA has halted. This isn't surprising, as ex-FDA chief Andrew von Eschenbach serves on the BioTime board. Patrick and I are free to use the GeneCards database to research our full genomes, but we would need a doctor or other clinician to make a diagnosis. By the way, I asked Mike what it cost to run our genomes. He had to think a moment and guessed about $4,000. (I assume that is his cost.) For Mike the cost is clearly not even a consideration in his research. And it is dropping every year, almost monthly. The first human genome was fully sequenced less than a decade ago. The project took 13 years and cost $2.7 billion. That is an almost millionfold reduction in cost in a little over a decade. The first individual’s genome (the previous genome maps had been composites) – Craig Venter's – was sequenced just six years ago, in 2007. An even bigger difference, and far more important, between BioTime’s model and 23andMe’s is that our cells were not only used to provide the DNA for sequencing, they were also rejuvenated and banked. Our skin cells were turned into induced pluripotent stem cells, which are virtually identical to the embryonic cells that we came from. This means that our cells' telomeres – the actual clock of aging – are completely restored to their full length at birth. If transplanted back to us, the donors, they would function as well as youthful cells and have full, normal lifespans, unlike adult stem cells used in therapies now. These rejuvenated stem cells have only our DNA, so they would provoke no immune reaction if returned to us. Moreover, they can be stored in this newborn state indefinitely; because until they start down the path to becoming an adult cell type (the process of differentiation), they don't age at all. To demonstrate the differentiation process, BioTime CEO Dr. Michael West had some of Pat's cells programmed to become heart muscle cells, or cardiomyocytes. He did this because their function is apparent to the naked eye. These cells naturally self-assemble into clumps of beating heart muscle. John Mauldin It's useful to ponder the fact that these cells are baby-young. Scientists believe, based on successful animal tests, that they could be used to repair damaged heart muscle following a heart attack. BioTime's subsidiary ReCyte is also working on endothelial precursor stem cells. If these cells were to be programmed from your own induced pluripotent stem cells and returned to you, they would form a youthful endothelium – the lining of your cardiovascular system. This would rejuvenate your cardiovascular system and help protect you from heart disease and other life-threatening conditions. Talk about healthcare with a lifetime warranty! The types of rejuvenated cells that could be used to reverse cellular aging in your body are unlimited. Already, BioTime has learned to engineer hundreds of important cell types from induced pluripotent stem cells. The knowledge that will be gained from growing numbers of fully sequenced genomes, including ours, will help scientists learn to engineer fixes to problems caused by aging as well as by genetic mutations. The ultimate goal is to rejuvenate all the cells of our bodies. Patrick and I have taken the first step by having our genomes sequenced and our cells rejuvenated and banked in preparation for a time when it is legal in some jurisdiction to perform the regenerative therapies we're waiting for. Yes, Pat and I are part of *that* group. Can we, as Ray Kurzweil said, "live long enough to live forever"? Neither of us thinks that total regeneration is possible in the next twenty years; but partial, organ-by-organ regeneration will clearly be available. So we may have to settle for rejuvenating one organ at a time as they learn how to get those cells from the lab into our bodies, thereby fixing the problems of aging one by one as they crop up – until we can fix them altogether. Aging is becoming an engineering problem. So are cancer and other diseases. Patrick introduced me a few years ago to a private company, Bexion, that in a few months will start phase one human trials on a molecule that cures any cancer it comes in contact with in mice. Will the cure work in humans? We’ll see. While that would be nice for me as a tiny investor in the company, the implications for humanity are self-evident. But whether it is Bexion or any of the dozens of other companies seeking a cure for cancer, a cure will be found. In fact, one of the real risks to my investment is not that Bexion is not successful with its technology, but that another company finds a cure that works better and cheaper and makes our research obsolete almost as soon as we get launched. Patrick and I began to share our enthusiasm for the accelerating nature of change over five years ago, and we have talked weekly if not daily ever since our first conversations. It is hard to contain our excitement about the prospects for our human future. And that future is being created not just in biotech but also in a dozen other fields where we are seeing life-altering technologies turn up every day. But the personal and economic impacts will be most pronounced as a result of the biotech revolution. It is not just new cures that will be the source of that impact. It is the increase in human capital that will become available to all of us. How many people we know have died from some disease that will become preventable in the next 10-15-20 years – people who, if they had lived, would have added so much more to the human experiment? Living longer is not just about the pleasure that we will gain from having a longer time with our loved ones; it's also about the contributions we can make to society, made possible because we are living longer and healthier lives. I encounter people all the time who give me the tired old argument that they don’t want to live longer. They see old people in nursing homes and don’t want that sort of life to be their own protracted future. I can certainly sympathize with that point of view. My mother is now totally bedridden; and while she is still mentally active, a great deal of the joy of life is gone. Dad’s time in a nursing home was not fun, either. If that were our future – just growing ever older and more frail – I’m not sure I would want to sign up for that. But that dreary prospect is not what Patrick and I are talking about. Instead, we are talking about not just increasing our lifespans but increasing our healthspans. We are following (and in some cases participating in) technologies that have remarkable short-term implications for the problems of aging. (For the record, I am 64 and Pat is 63.) As I mentioned above, the implications of advances in computational research on nutraceuticals is simply astounding. The first human being who will live 150 years is alive today. Pat and I hope that person is somewhat older than we are so they can blaze a trail that we can follow, but we are perfectly willing to be guinea pigs if and when the time comes. I told Mike West (only somewhat jokingly) that I don’t want to be the first person whose body parts he tries to rejuvenate. But I would like to be the 100th when they have the science down. Mike is shopping for a venue for those first procedures even as I write. That he is having to look outside the United States to utilize research done in the United States is testimony to the backward-looking focus of the FDA, which is mired in a history of regulating medical treatments that are quickly becoming antiquated and that are nothing like what we are seeing done today. But I hope even that bureaucratically encumbered and backward-looking regime will change. Japan, for instance has just modernized their regulatory structu re and given us a model that we should emulate. It might be helpful to think of the race to defeat aging as something of a horse race. While Mike West and BioTime may be the lead horse today (and in our opinion they are), we are barely out of the starting gate. The drive for regeneration is just one of a hundred different life-impacting transformations that we are going to see over the next twenty years. There are a hundred different racecourses with thousands of horses all being jockeyed to some distant finish line. We are involved not just in an industrial revolution but in a total Human Transformation Revolution. If we limit our focus to the problems created by government and central banks, we may be distracted from the truely epochal events happening all around us today that are going to give us amazing opportunities for investment growth and the creation of wealth. There is more to life than simply watching the Federal Reserve. We have to be keenly aware of our surroundings as we explore this exciting new world, avoiding dangers and pitfalls as they present themselves, but keeping our eye on the destination. I’m running long in this letter today, and so I'll close, but the Human Transformation Revolution will be a theme we'll return to from time to time this year. And if you’ll indulge me for a marketing moment, my regular readers will have noticed that Patrick Cox has come to work with us at Mauldin Economics to write a newsletter called Transformational Technology Alert. This journey of exploration and greater understanding isn’t always going to be fun or easy. We fully expect to end up exploring a few dead-end canyons as well as finding our share of fabulous and fruitful valleys. But both Patrick and I firmly believe this journey will alter the course of human history. It will, in short, allow us (and you) to live longer, happier, healthier, more prosperous lives. Patrick's new letter is our way of inviting you to join us on the journey. And maybe we can all make a little money along the way. You can begin reading Patrick’s letter for 50% off the normal price (and lock in that low rate for a very long time) by clicking here. In addition to regular monthly issues, we'll send you several special reports on why we think BioTime is a uniquely promising company, along with reports on other very hopeful technologies and companies that Pat has discovered. Dubai, Riyadh, Vancouver, Edmonton, and Regina Next Wednesday evening I'll fly to Dubai (via London) to explore the city for a few days and perhaps visit Abu Dhabi before flying on to Riyadh for a speech. It is my first trip in 25 years to the Middle East, and I’m curious as to what I will see. I then return home for a few days before heading off on a speaking tour for CFA chapters in Vancouver, Edmonton, and Regina. I notice that Regina is -8°F (-22 Celsius) today. I will have to go shopping for a little extra cold-weather gear before I head up there. My partners Olivier Garret and Ed D’Agostino and other Mauldin Economics associates are flying in Monday and Tuesday for planning meetings on our course for the coming year. On Tuesday evening we will be joined by Jon Sundt and Jack Rivkin of Altegris Investments, along with several other leading investment professionals, and we'll be talking about how best to help you in your personal investment explorations. I will be cooking for 13 of us as we think hard about how a transforming world will affect our businesses and how we can deliver better products and services to you. As I mentioned a few weeks ago, we will soon be launching two new newsletters that focus specifically on portfolio design and construction. This project has been in the works for some time. Watch this space for how you can access these letters, hopefully for free. I am truly excited about the changes in what we will be able to offer; but rest assured, Thoughts from the Frontline wil l not change. It will be free, as always! It truly is time to hit the send button, as my yoga instructor will be here in a moment. Sadly, all of our research has turned up no magic pill that will take the place of exercise and a healthy lifestyle. I am beginning to feel positive effects from working with her, although I must hasten to add that what I am doing does not resemble what you think of as yoga. This is more like Remedial Stretching 101 for someone who has sat on too many planes and in front of two many computers for far too long. But the plans we are making here at Mauldin Economics really do need me to be involved for another ten years at least, so I need to make sure my body is up to the task. It will be a long time before we can replace even a small part of it. Have a great week, and I’ll write you from Dubai. Your wondering where my flying car is analyst,  John Mauldinsubscribers@MauldinEconomics.com This article originally appeared at Thoughts From The Frontline.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ralph D. FresoNEW YORK (Reuters) - Financial services firm Guggenheim Partners has attracted attention recently for its involvement in high profile deals: it led a group of investors in buying the Los Angeles Dodgers baseball team and helped engineer Verizon's $130 billion acquisition of Verizon Wireless. But it is the firm's lower-profile asset management division that has been winning investors' interest of late. The division has quietly quadrupled its assets under management from $40 billion at the end of 2008 to $164 billion at the end of September and now represents the lion's share of its parent's $190 billion in assets under management. Notably, investors poured more than $4.6 billion into Guggenheim's signature bond funds and exchange-traded funds in 2013 - the same period when they were draining more than $44 billion out of bond funds from Pacific Investment Management Co (PIMCO), the firm known for its fixed income expertise, according to Morningstar data. Now Guggenheim Partners is looking to Europe to continue fueling its growth, which may result in additional products for asset management clients looking to diversify outside of U.S. fixed income as interest rates are expected to rise. Guggenheim Partners this month opened a London office focused on real estate investing and plans to expand its direct lending to middle market companies in Europe. While both efforts stem from opportunities the parent company sees to grow outside of asset management, it could result in products for fund investors looking for alternatives outside of the U.S., consultants said. Ultimately, Guggenheim wants to boost its profile with retail investors, which makes up about 25 percent of its business. "We used to joke that we were the best kept secret in the investment management business," Scott Minerd, chief investment officer of the firm, told Reuters in an interview. "That is what we are trying to change." ATYPICAL BOND FUNDS Guggenheim, with a fixed-income specialty, has won investors in a challenging bond environment because it specializes in funds that invest in either niches of the market, like bank loans, or have the ability to invest across several fixed income sectors. These funds are believed to better withstand the rising interest environment the Federal Reserve is expected to usher in than core fixed income funds. U.S. investors are expected to move $1 trillion away from core fixed income strategies into areas like floating-rate instruments and multi-currency portfolios, according to Casey Quirk &amp; Associates, a Darien, Connecticut-based consultant to investment managers. Guggenheim's most popular bond fund, the Guggenheim Floating Rate Strategies Fund, attracted $864 million in the first 11 months of 2013. Minerd recognizes that Guggenheim shares the challenge that many fixed income fund managers face today in that the booming equity markets have grabbed investors' attention. Though the Guggenheim name might have resonance - the firm started as a private office managing the fortune of the famous family that endowed the New York art museum - it doesn't have the brand power that PIMCO does, nor does it have a talking head with the star power of PIMCO's co-chief investment officer, Bill Gross. That could hold the company back. "Guggenheim has really made a good name for itself on obscure, off the run sectors," said one former employee who wished to remain anonymous. "(But) it's hard to commercialize and in this business you really need a signature product." Minerd said that the firm's jump in assets under management is proof, however, that investors are aware of its funds' performance. EUROPEAN OPPORTUNITIES While Guggenheim's ambitions in Europe go beyond asset management, the firm's added capabilities may help that business grow. Because Guggenheim has its hand in so many different businesses, ranging from asset management to private equity, it can build products around these two new businesses as it sees fit, said Todd Boehly, president of Guggenheim Partners. So, for example, if there is an opportunity to create a fund leveraging its real estate investing expertise out of London, the firm can do so, but it can also bring an investment opportunity to its private equity clients, he said. Guggenheim also plans to buy at least some of its growth in Europe, both in asset management as well as other areas. So far, the firm has been daunted on at least two deals: It lost an October bid for Lloyds Bank's fund management arm Scottish Widows, according to people familiar with the deal. Aberdeen Asset Management ended up winning that business for 660 million pounds ($1.1 billion). The firm also saw a 2012 deal to buy Deutsche Bank's AG's asset management business for 1.4 billion euros ($1.81 billion) fall apart. And the European asset management space is becoming increasingly crowded as more U.S. firms look to grow there, particularly in the fixed income space, said Yariv Itah, a partner at Casey Quirk. But Guggenheim remains undeterred. "I think that a number of the banks in Europe are going to be under capital pressure and will be looking to potentially sell their asset management businesses and I think we will look at them," Minerd said. (Reporting by Jessica Toonkel; Editing by Linda Stern and Chris Reese) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Stringer An employee works in front of newly made giant dolls of Fuleco the Armadillo, the official mascot of the FIFA 2014 World Cup, at a factory in Tianchang, Anhui province January 6, 2014. The 2014 World Cup will be held in Brazil from June 12 through July 13. Good morning! Here's what you need to know. FREE AppDownload
Tuesday night at 10:00 pm ET, PBS's Frontline will air "To Catch A Trader," a documentary about insider trading on Wall Street with a focus on Steve Cohen's SAC Capital. Naturally there's an assortment of journalists and FBI agents talking about SAC (and Raj Rajaratnam's Galleon Group), but perhaps the most interesting person interviewed is Turney Duff, author of 'The Buy Side: A Wall Street Trader's Tale Of Spectacular Excess.' Duff worked at Galleon. Duff is open about the fact that he went out to clubs and restaurants at night searching for "edge" — any information that could help Galleon trade, like what might end up on the cover of Barron's that week. He's also open about the first time he made an insider trade. Duff was manning the phones at Galleon while Rajaratnam was out. He picked up the phone and a voice whispered that Jefferies would be upgrading Amazon. After wrestling with himself a bit, Duff ended up buying 100,000 shares of Amazon. "If I got calls like this I'd be a great trader too," he said. "I need my own Mr. Whisper." As you may recall, the FBI tapped Galleon Group's phone during its investigation into the hedge fund. Agents told Frontline that since traders were talking stocks all day, it wasn't always easy to determine what was inside information and what was just talking shop. Duff's story seems like one of the easy ones. Watch the clip below:  FREE AppDownload
This 507-lb. bluefin tuna caught off northern Japan sold for 7.36 million yen ($70,324 ) at the Tsukiji fish market in Tokyo on Jan.5, making it the highest price paid at the market's first tuna auction of the year.  Check out this massive fish: REUTERS/Yuya Shino Kiyomura Co's President Kiyoshi Kimura (C), who runs a chain of sushi restaurants, poses for pictures with a 230 kg (507 lbs) bluefin tuna at his sushi restaurant outside Tsukiji fish market in Tokyo January 5, 2014.The wildest part is that last year the owner of a different Japanese sushi restaurant chain paid $1.76 million for a 489-lb. bluefin tuna. Svati Kiersten Narula of The Atlantic describes the Sushinomics surrounding the blufin auction, including why the price for the top fish dropped off so much. Here's a snippet:  If the past decade's trend in pricing continued, this year's first tuna would surely fetch more than a million dollars. But the Tsukiji fish market bucked tradition this weekend and sold its first tuna to Kimura, yet again, for a mere $70,000. That's still way more money than most bluefin go for in Japan. But compared to what everyone was expecting—an extravagant sum to start off the new year and remind us that these are the most prized fish in the sea—that's one crazy cheap tuna. 
FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jason Reed(Reuters) - JPChase &amp; Co is nearing a $2 billion settlement with federal authorities to resolve suspicions that the bank ignored signs of Bernard Madoff's Ponzi scheme, the New York Times reported, citing people briefed on the case. The bank's civil and criminal settlements would also involve a deferred prosecution agreement, a criminal action that would suspend an indictment as long as the bank acknowledged the facts of the government's case and changed its behavior, the NY Times said. As per the deal, JPMorgan will pay more than $1 billion to the prosecutors in Manhattan and the remainder to the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) and a unit of the Treasury Department investigating breakdowns in the bank's safeguards against money laundering. The government plans to use some of the payout for Madoff's victims, the paper said.  Madoff was convicted in 2009 of defrauding thousands of investors and is serving a 150-year prison sentence. JPMorgan has been accused of ignoring warning signs that Madoff's business was a fraud, often to win more fees and commissions for services they provided. JPMorgan spokesman Joseph Evangelisti declined to comment on the New York Times report when contacted by Reuters. Once reaching the Madoff settlements, the bank will have paid some $20 billion to resolve government investigations over the last 12 months, the newspaper said. A government official told Reuters last month that the U.S. Treasury Department's Office of the Inspector General was examining whether JPMorgan interfered with the OCC's attempts to probe the bank's relationship with Madoff. Madoff had also separately told U.S. authorities that JPMorgan - the bank he had used during his decades-long investment scam - had tried to stop the OCC from getting information about their relationship. (Reporting by Sakthi Prasad in Bangalore; Editing by Supriya Kurane) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jon WooAn employee carries bundles of 100 yuan Chinese bank notes to store after counting at a bank in Taiyuan, Shanxi province July 4, 2013.BEIJING (Reuters) - China has approved a pilot scheme allowing the setting up of three to five private banks, the regulator said on Monday, in a step to boost financial support for cash-starved smaller firms. The China Banking Regulatory Commission (CBRC) would maintain "prudential regulatory standards" in approving private banks, it said in a statement following a meeting on banking supervision. "The first-batch of three to five private banks will be set up under a pilot scheme," it said, adding that a private bank would be established only when conditions are mature. It did not elaborate. Chinese leaders have pledged to open up the banking sector, now dominated by big state-owned lenders, to private investors to help boost competition and increase lending to small firms, who are often neglected by the big banks. China Minsheng Banking Corp. &lt;600016.SS&gt; is the only private bank among the country's 10 largest commercial lenders. Small- and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) account for 60 percent of China's gross domestic product and some 75 percent of new jobs, but they are struggling to cope with weaker global demand and tight credit. Retailer Suning Commerce Group &lt;002024.SZ&gt; and the Internet giant Tencent Holdings &lt;0700.HK&gt; are among firms keen to establish private banks. The banking regulator also said it would take steps to rein in banking risks in 2014, and reiterated that it would take measures to resolve risks linked to local government financing vehicles and tighten rules on wealth management products. Separately, banking industry sources told Reuters that Chinese banks made 8.9 trillion yuan ($1.5 trillion) in new loans in 2013, which implied around 500 billion yuan in new loans in December alone. China's central bank is scheduled to release December's loan data between Jan 10 and Jan 15. For all of 2013, Chinese banks' outstanding loan growth was 14.2 percent while banks' non-performing loan ratio stood at 1.05 percent as of December, the sources said, citing a speech made on Monday by Shang Fulin, the head of CBRC. (Reporting by Victoria Bi in HONG KONG and Kevin Yao in BEIJING; Editing by Nick Macfie) FREE AppDownload
Switzerland's central bank said on Monday it lost billions in 2013 amid a sharp drop in gold prices and that it therefore would not pay dividends to Bern or the Swiss cantons. The Swiss National Bank (SNB) said it expected to report a loss of 9.0 billion Swiss francs ($9.9 billion, 7.3 billion euros) in 2013, according to provisional figures. But it had lost far more on the value of its gold holdings, which shed a w15 billion francs during a year when prices for the precious metal dropped by 28 percent. That deep loss was offset though by gains of 3.0 billion Swiss francs on the banks foreign currency positions, and another increase of 3.0 billion on a stabilisation fund it put in place in 2008 to save Switzerland's largest bank, UBS, from collapse. But since SNB needed to put aside 3.0 billion Swiss francs as a provision for its currency reserves, it said it expected to end up about 12 billion francs in the red. "As this loss will be substantially larger than the 5.3 billion Swiss francs in the distribution reserve, the SNB cannot make a profit distribution," the bank explained. Switzerland's central bank usually hands out dividends to the Swiss Confederation and regional cantons. Last year, BNS reported a 6.9-billion-franc profit and redistributed 2.4 billion francs of its profit to the Swiss Confederation, cantons and other share holders. The bank is set to announce its full results on March 7. FREE AppDownload
SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Wearable computers like Google Glass and the Samsung Galaxy Gear watch may not have caught fire yet, but that hasn't stopped mobile game developers from rushing to create apps for the new devices, eager to seize what they hope is the next big moment in consumer technology. Niccolo DeMasi, the CEO of mobile games maker Glu Mobile, compares the potential of wearables to that of Apple Inc's iPhone launch in 2007 - an event that was the catalyst to create much of the mobile app world that exists now. DeMasi and others are betting that by developing compelling apps designed with the wearables' special features in mind, they can create overwhelming demand for the products. "A whole new app ecosystem is going to be born," said Shawn Hardin, chief executive officer of Mind Pirate, which will release "Global Food Fight," its first game for Google Glass, this month. "Those who are going to make that happen in a big way are going to be valuable companies because of it, and those who wait too late won't be a part of it." The market for mobile game apps is expected to grow to $17 billion this year from just $6 billion in 2010, analysts said, and wearables could fuel growth in the years to come. An array of new smartwatches and devices like fitness tracker Fitbit will go on display this week at the Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas, heralding a potential breakthrough for the devices in 2014. Google Glass is expected to launch broadly sometime this year. So far, its user-testing version has only been available at a $1,500 price to about 15,000 developers and consumers who registered to be part of its early adopter program. Galaxy Gear smartwatches from Samsung have garnered mixed reviews since their September launch, and consumers have not warmed to them yet. Despite the slow start, Juniper Research expects more than 130 million smart wearable devices will ship by 2018. Moreover, global shipments of wearable "smart glasses" alone will reach 10 million each year by 2018, compared with an estimated 87,000 in 2013, according to the research firm. Wearable computing devices basically function as mini-computers, mainly strapped on a user's wrist or face, though they may end up being worn on other parts of the body, too. In developing apps for them, programmers will focus on their voice-command features as well as GPS, gyroscope, compass and WiFi capabilities. Apps for more conventional mobile devices, by contrast, mostly use their touch-screen interface. Glu wanted to get a jump on its rivals by creating a word puzzle game called "Spellista" for the prototype of Google Inc's Glass. Because Glass allows hands-free experiences, Spellista's gameplay relies on voice commands and head movements that work with the device's gyroscope. With voice commands, a gamer can snap pictures on its 5-megapixel camera and create word puzzles to share with friends. Another distinct feature of Glass is how it transmits sound. With Spellista, a user hears the game's tutorial through sound vibrations traveling through the skull behind the ear rather than traditional speakers. That lets the user simultaneously hear ambient sound. Over 2,000 developers, including Glu, have access to the programming code and tools needed to design apps forGlass. With Mind Pirate's app, "Global Food Fight," the Silicon Valley startup wants to demonstrate that wearable devices are well-suited for "micro-engagement" - or 30- to 90-second game sessions. The three-dimensional app is designed for multiple players. Gamers can use head movements and taps on the Glass touchpad to virtually hurl tomatoes or gooey pies at one another and build obstacle courses to help them dodge hits. "You could sit on a train and launch a food fight using voice commands, and you could be playing with multiple people" who could be virtually anywhere, Hardin explained. Mind Pirate has set up an incubator program, providing resources to four developers to work on games and apps for Glass and other wearable computing devices in partnership with the Canadian Film Centre, a Toronto-based film training institute. Timothy Jordan, senior developer advocate for Google Glass, said the game concepts that developers come up with need to be path-breaking. "If something works well on another platform and you stamp it on Glass, you're doing it wrong," he said. Games and apps have often popularized new hardware, helping to familiarize consumers with the technology. Rovio's Angry Birds demonstrated the iPhone's easy swipe and touch features, and the card game Solitaire made using the mouse on Microsoft Corp's Windows operating software seem intuitive. "It's early days in wearables, but I would be unsurprised if 2017 to 2027 turns out to be a great 10-year wave for all wearable computing, whether it's watches or something like Glass," DeMasi said. Companies such as Qualcomm Inc and Fitbit will use the Consumer Electronics Show to showcase wearable fitness trackers and smartwatches, in addition to single- and binocular-lens "glasses." "There'll be a lot of competitive offerings - and I think some of these are going to be really, really well-suited for new kinds of entertainment and gameplay," Hardin said, without providing details. To be sure, not all developers think wearable devices are destined for glory any time soon. There are plenty of questions over the price point, limited battery life and other concerns. Misha Lyalin, CEO of ZeptoLab, which created the hit mobile game "Cut the Rope," says the category is mostly an R&amp;D project for most game developers at this stage. "In order for you to succeed as a developer, you have to have a platform that will be massive," Lyalin said. "It's too early to place a bet on." Venture capitalists are mostly taking a wait-and-see approach, though some want to make sure they are in a solid position, should the devices take off. Bessemer Ventures and Signia Venture Partners, for example, together have invested $2.5 million in Hardin's Mind Pirate. Glass has not yet emerged as a mass consumer platform, said Jeremy Liew, managing director of Lightspeed Venture Partners, which joined some other investors to put a total of about $1 million into Lark, a Silicon Valley startup that makes a smart wristband and an app to track sleep and exercise patterns. "But if it becomes one, that next new billion-dollar company will be built on top of it, and that's why it's worth paying attention to," Liew said. (Editing by Frank McGurty and Jan Paschal) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
C-SPANWe're back!And we're back! The Senate returns today after being off since December 20 while the House comes back in session having been off since December 13. After the nasty fiscal cliff fight at the end of 2012, lawmakers (and journalists) were happy to have a few weeks off to return to their districts and spend time with their families over the holidays. Now that that's over, Congress has a few things to take care of in the next few weeks. Here are the details: Omnibus Spending Bill -  Passage of the Murray-Ryan budget deal didn't ensure that we would avoid another government shutdown. Each house must still pass a major spending bill that uses the top line spending number agreed upon in the budget deal to appropriate where the money goes. Congress must pass the bill by January 15 to avoid another shutdown, although it could (and might) pass a short continuing resolution to give lawmakers a few more days to work out the legislation. Farm Bill - House and Senate Agriculture Committee negotiators are also working against the clock to complete a five-year farm bill as well. The sides are working to compromise over the House and Senate passed bills. Speaker John Boehner struggled to pass a comprehensive farm bill last year, forcing him to break it into two separate bills - one for farm programs and another with $40 billion in cuts to food stamps. The Senate bill cut food stamps by $4 billion. If the sides do not come to an agreement, food stamps will be unaffected, but milk prices could rise significantly and various farm subsidies will be altered. Unemployment Insurance - The Emergency Unemployment Compensation (EUC) program that allowed unemployed workers to collect benefits for up to 73 weeks (instead of the normal 26) expired on December 28. Senate Democrats are bringing up a bill today that would extend the EUC program for another three months, at a cost of $6.4 billion. Only one Republican, Dean Heller, supports the bill, though other say they are open to it if Democrats include a spending offset. Obamacare Security - The House returns this week and immediately gets to work on a bill that would require the federal government to inform an individual if their personal information was breached on the federal exchange website. The Obama administration maintains that no such breaches have occurred, despite repeated warnings from Republicans, and that the House bill is fear mongering to scare potential Obamacare enrollees. Janet Yellen Confirmation - Janet Yellen's nomination for chairman of the Federal Reserve will receive a vote in the upcoming days, possibly as soon as today. Yellen passed through the Senate Banking Committee by a 14-8 vote in November and is certain to be confirmed. She needs just a bare majority (51) of votes after Democrats changed the Senate rules to eliminate the filibuster for executive and judicial branch nominees last year. Other than that, Democrats are still holding out hope that Boehner will bring up some form of an immigration bill, or many small bills in the coming months. Congress will also have to raise the debt ceiling sometime in the spring. FREE AppDownload
Asian shares fell on Monday after growth in China's services sector slowed sharply last month. China's CSI300 index dropped 2.3pc to a five-month low after the HSBC/Markit services sector Purchasing Managers' Index fell to 50.9 in December from 52.5 in the previous month, with new business expansion the slowest in six months. The official non-manufacturing PMI released by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) and the China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing (CFLP) on January 3 also dropped for the second month in a row in December, due to a slowdown in construction and service sectors. Hongbin Qu, HSBC's chief economist for China, said: “Despite the moderation of the headline China Services PMI index, which reflected slower new business growth, labour market conditions improved for the fourth month in a row. We expect the steady expansion of manufacturing sectors to lend support to service sector growth." Japan's Nikkei, which jumped 57pc in 2013 helped by massive government stimulus, fell heavily to close down 2.35pc, or 382.43 points, at 15,908.88 on the first day of trading in 2014. it is the worst one-day fall in two months. Hong Kong's Hang Seng fell 0.4pc and Sydney lost 0.47pc. South Korea's Kospi was the one riser among major Asian markets, gaining 0.4pc. The dollar hovered near a four-week high, supported by an upbeat outlook for the US economy from US Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke that raised expectations that the central bank's massive stimulus will be cut even faster. Investors are looking ahead to Friday's US nonfarm payrolls data which will give further clues as to how well the US economy is recovering and how fast the Fed will unwind quantitative easing. QE has been a major driver for stock markets. However, Guy Stear, Asian credit and equity strategist at Societe Generale in Hong Kong, said: "The focal point of the Asian markets is more on Chinese growth and on Chinese political situation and how it's going to pan out this year, rather than worrying about how tapering will affect Asia specifically."  FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Here's a fun chart. It's a Google Trends chart showing the frequency of people searching the term 'Credit Card.' (Via @soberlook and @naufalsanaullah) Google Trends It's a little hard to know the significance of some parts of the chart. The jump in 2009 could be about people looking for help paying off their credit cards, rather than signaling intent to acquire them. But the latest spike seems pretty unmistakable — a break from the uptrend as consumers are more inclined to put spending on plastic. FREE AppDownload
Bitcoin is totally back. The digital currency is off to a blistering start in January. Yesterday it hit $1000. Today it's near $1100. If you'll recall, Bitcoin went out on kind of a sour note in 2013 thanks to a crackdown in China and other government action.  But just as we've seen with every other "crash" in Bitcoin history, the buyers came back and it started to soar again. Bitcoinwisdom.com FREE AppDownload
Spain is HOT. The service PMI report in December surged to 54.2 from 51.7 according to Markit, registering the sharpest rise in activity in years. Here's the quick summary of the report: Markit The solid gains aren't being seen everywhere in Europe. Italy, for example, has registered its second straight month of contraction in the service sector. Markit France, too, is seeing shrinkage. Markit But again, the big story is what a tear Spain is on. The country's stock market is modestly in the green after that report. FREE AppDownload
Tatyana Temirbulatova/FlickrGood morning! Markets in Europe and futures in the US are slightly in the red, continuing the losses from last week. The big loser of the day is Japan — which had its first official trading day of 2014 — only to see the Nikkei fall 2.3%. Service PMI reports from various European countries have been coming out and it's a mixed bag. The big winner is Spain, where the composite data has 77-month high. Meanwhile, traders are beating up on Turkey again, as the Lira has hit a new low against the dollar. FREE AppDownload
