TOKYO (Reuters) - Japanese stocks scaled seven-year highs on Wednesday on growing expectations Prime Minister Shinzo Abe will postpone a planned sales tax hike to avoid damaging a fragile recovery, and call a snap election to bolster his political standing. Equity markets in the rest of Asia moved little after a flat close in a holiday-thinned Wall Street session, with MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan off just 0.1 percent in early trade. Japan's Nikkei rose 0.8 percent to hit a fresh seven-year high. The Sankei newspaper, citing unnamed government and coalition officials, said Abe will delay a planned second sales tax increase by a year and a half and take the issue to voters. Abe on Tuesday said he had yet to decide on the timing of an election. Abe has said he will make up his mind on the tax increase after assessing the July-September GDP data due next Monday, widely expected to highlight the fragility of the rebound following a sharp contraction in the second quarter. The first increase in the two-stage sale tax hike in April knocked the Japanese economy hard, and markets view a delay in the second-phase of the tax hike as positive for growth. A snap election could cement Abe's grip on power because opposition parties are too fragmented to win, despite a decline in the prime minister's approval ratings. "Short-term players are jumping onto this, although in the long run, this just means a delay in fiscal reform and not necessarily positive," said Ayako Sera, senior market economist at Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank. Indeed, Japanese government bond prices fell as a delay in the planned tax hike would heighten doubts on whether Tokyo can achieve its fiscal target to balance the budget outside debt payments by 2020. The 10-year Japanese Government Bond yield rose to one-month high of 0.515 percent, up 3.5 basis points from Tuesday close. However, given massive bond-buying by the Bank of Japan, investors see limited room for further rises in JGB yields. The yen, which has remained under pressure for nearly two years due to the BOJ's aggressive stimulus, was on the back foot. The greenback traded at 115.80 yen, having risen to a seven-year high of 116.11 yen on Tuesday. The dollar lost a bit of steam against other currencies, as investors took profits from its hefty gains in the last few months. The euro traded at $1.2477, keeping some distance from a two-year low of $1.2358 hit on Friday. In the energy market, Brent crude futures in London closed down 67 cents on Tuesday, or 0.8 percent, at $81.67 a barrel after hitting a four-year low of $81.23. U.S. crude fell 0.7 percent in Asia on Wednesday. Some analysts said Brent fared worse on Tuesday because of growing expectations that global producer group OPEC will not cut output.   (Editing by Shri Navaratnam) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucy NicholsonJack Ma, Executive Chairman of Alibaba Group. 1. A very interesting day in Asia yesterday. Rumours of an early election and the postponement of the sales tax increase drove the Nikkei and USDJPY higher. The Nikkei rallied 2.05% to 17,124. In Shanghai, stocks dipped 4 points as the resistance we highlighted yesterday weighed on sentiment a little. But Bloomberg reports that turnover of US$53.9 billion is the most since they started compiling such data in 2005, so there is still plenty of interest in the index just a week before the tie up with the Hang Seng exchange and the expected flood of foreign cash into the mainland exchange. 2. The Aussie is higher. But so is the euro and pound amidst a generalised US dollar dip. The Aussie, at 87 cents even, is up 0.92% on the day. Our cross-Tasman cousin the Kiwi is also up close to 1%, sitting at 78 cents. The Antipodeans have outperformed the euro which is up 0.45% to 1.2476 while GBP is up 0.49% to 1.5918. The yen went the other way and is at a 7-year low against the US dollar at 115.39 while AUDJPY is at 100.38 – its highest level in 18 months. 3. On the data front today, we have the Westpac consumer confidence release this morning at 10.30 AEDT and markets will be waiting to see if it confirms the ANZ weekly confidence survey and yesterday’s monster rise in the NAB business survey. We are still waiting on Chinese new loans data and then tonight the BoE will release its quarterly inflation report. 4. NAB wants to pay back its excessive fees. The bank’s boss Andrew Thorburn has flagged he’s keen to end the bad blood between NAB and 30,000 of its customers over a possible $40 million payout. The Herald Sun reports a hearing is set for November 18 before the Federal Court which could clear the way for a settlement – and also ramp up pressure on CBA, ANZ and Westpac to do the same. If cleared, NAB’s customers will get their cheques mid-next year. 5. We finally have a Miss World National Costume: That’s Courtney Thorpe modeling the new design by Julie Sufi, of Belluccio, which is based on the Women’s Land Army. The original was based on the ANZAC women’s uniform but was canned for a) being, well, wrong and b) after rumblings from the RSL about appropriateness. It’s a poisoned chalice, designing the national costume, summed up in this classic quote from Miss World Australia national director Nadasha Zhang: “Creating the Australian National Costume, is a tedious task, as the opinion of the general public needs to be taken into account when creating the piece. You can see the full kit here at www.news.com.au. 6. Fat Duck Melbourne has all its diners. Last Monday night, 14,000 very happy people found out via email that they’d been allocated a seat at Heston Blumenthal’s The Fat Duck when it relocates from England to Melbourne’s Crown Resorts for six months in 2015. Another 76,000were told they’d missed out. Now the real fun begins as the reality of the $525 a head bill comes home to roost. No doubt there’s profit to be made – if Crown Resorts allows it, and there’s already plenty of desperate diners making offers on social media today in a bid for a blob of some snail porridge. 7. Redfoo won’t apologise. More so than any other, Australian media loves the smell of celebrity blood in the morning and today it’s X-Factor judge Redfoo who’s under the axe after the release of his “misogynistic” song “Literally I Can’t”. It’s basically several minutes of Foo and his mates telling sorority girls who won’t get drunk and reject their advances to “shut the f..k up”, so no surprise about the outcry, which now includes a Change.org petition to get him off X Factor. But Redfoo says it’s all a typical example of critics “purposely misinterpreting” artists' work. 8. China has a stealth fighter. The J-31 Shenyang first appeared in a photo posted on the internet in September 2011 and has been fodder for aviation freaks ever since. It was seen as something of a joke at first, although there were serious concerns that it had been built off the back of stolen F-35 plans. Now, it’s real, and flying demonstrations in airshows, years before we’ll see US Joint Strike Fighter in action. The Aviationist says it might be stealthy, but you can see its smoke trail for miles. 9. Goldman Sachs releases The List. It’s the day every GS employee works for – the biennial announcement of who will be made partners. It’s one of the most coveted roles on Wall Strett and comes with a personal phone call between 5am and 9am from Goldman’s CEO Lloyd Blankfein or president Gary Cohn. A former partner told the Financial News in 2012: “Don’t tell my wife this, but being made partner was the greatest moment of my life.” Here’s all the other not-so-secret stuff you need to know about it. 10. Jack Ma doesn’t like being rich. Well, not all of it. He became China’s richest man after Alibaba’s IPO in September and has almost immediately learnt the downfall of being a multibillionaire. He told CNBC he thinks the responsibility is a “great pain” and the pressure gets to him, especially as people put high expectations on Alibaba’s stock price. He said he feels like people have started surrounding him because of his riches, not because of who is actually is. “I want people to see this is entrepreneur, this is a guy who is having fun of himself,” Ma says. “I want to be myself.” BONUS ITEM: No Cats In Shark Suits On Roombas today, sorry. We plugged a live cross for the probe landing on a comet this morning, but there’s a wait until 3am tomorrow before it actually happens, so sorry about that. To tide space fans over, here’s a quite stunning time lapse of more than 80GB of photographs taken by astronauts aboard the International Space Station. Enjoy:  This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Charles PlatiauFrench economist and academic Thomas Piketty.Thomas Piketty's "Capital in the Twenty-First Century" has been named the Financial Times and McKinsey's 2014 Business Book of the Year. Announcing the award, FT editor and chairman of the judges Lionel Barber said that, "While not everyone agreed on the policy prescriptions, we recognised the quality of the scholarship," and Barber said the book is "a challenging, but ultimately important book." Piketty's 700-page book, which was published in the spring, made headlines and became a surprise bestseller. The book argues, basically, that income inequality has been growing and will continue to grow due to the nature of the capitalist economic system in place in the West.  The book's famous formula arguing this point is r &gt; g, or that that return on capital is greater than growth, is causing this growing inequality. The irony of Piketty's award, however, is that the Financial Times in May published a series of articles that found errors with the data Piketty used to back up his claim that income inequality is rising.  But it's hard to deny a book on economics that runs 700 pages, and was at one point sold out on Amazon, remains a major event.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersLogos for Shell are seen on a garage forecourt in central LondonBy Adriana Barrera and David Alire Garcia MEXICO CITY (Reuters) - Royal Dutch Shell, one of the world's largest oil companies, is most interested in new oil and gas projects in the deep waters of the Gulf of Mexico following a major sector opening finalized earlier this year, a top executive said on Tuesday. In the near term, Shell is eying potential deep water tie-ups with Mexican oil company Pemex in the Trion and Exploratus fields located within the Perdido Fold Belt, which straddles the U.S.-Mexico maritime border in the Gulf. "I get very enthusiastic about that because I see huge potential there," Marvin Odum, Shell's upstream Americas director, told Reuters in an interview. The energy reform signed into law in August promises to stem a decade-long slide in crude output in Mexico, where production hovers around 2.35 million barrels per day (bpd). Pemex has said it will seek to operate the smaller Exploratus field along with other partners, while it seeks a private partner to operate Trion. Odum said Shell, the top deep water producer in U.S. territorial waters of the Gulf at about 400,000 bpd, would be open to either arrangement. He said yet-to-be determined fiscal terms of the projects will be "the No.1 issue for us” as Shell evaluates investment opportunities. Mexico’s finance ministry will set those terms next year. Odum, also a member of Shell’s executive committee that makes investment decisions, noted that the government take in deep waters of the U.S. Gulf averages between 47 to 53 percent of a project's revenue, and that projects on the Mexican side would need to be competitive to make the cut. He added that the Perdido Fold Belt’s extension into Mexico offers very similar geology to several U.S. fields Shell currently operates nearby. "You would expect (the Perdido geology in Mexico) to be a very direct analog," he said. The executive added that the company’s network of platforms and pipelines on the U.S. side of the Gulf could allow for would-be Mexican production to be processed there at considerable savings. "The ability to tie-back and produce more resources through the same structure is a huge benefit," he said, referring to hoses that link new wells to a platform that separates out crude, water and gas.  (Editing by Simon Gardner and Lisa Shumaker) FREE AppDownload
FacebookMore wing sauce options Buffalo Wild Wings is the fastest-growing casual dining restaurant in America.  The chain's sales soared 6% in the third quarter despite widespread troubles in the casual dining sector.  Executives are planning a myriad of changes to get customers to come more often, stay at the restaurant longer, and spend more money.  Buffalo Wild Wings recently shared its plan with UBS for a recent report.  Here's what will be different going forward.  Buffalo Wild Wings already has trivia and games on its tablets. Starting next year, the company will let customers order using the devices. This will eliminate the chance that a customer's order will be misheard in the noisy sports bar. It also creates a more efficient system in the kitchen. The company is also adding options to pay for games and music.  UBS also notes that Buffalo Wild Wings is working on letting customers pay from the tablet.  Giving servers electronic devices will help them better communicate with customers and the kitchen. It could also expedite the payment process — servers could theoretically swipe the cards tableside, rather than going to a machine and back.  Buffalo Wild Wings is working on implementing a loyalty program, but there are few details right now.  "This is likely to be a long-term evolution and unlike anything you've seen offered anywhere else, with a lot of flexibility for how to earn points and what you can do with your points," the UBS analysts write. "Extra points for a Blazin' Challenge? Yes, likely." Gerald Angeles/FlickrThe company is working on a loyalty program. Buffalo Wild Wings is looking into implementing technology that would allow a person to stream any game of their choice and listen using headphones, according to UBS. This could make the viewing experience more enjoyable during loud, busy times.  The restaurant chain is developing order-ahead technology. This would enable fast pick-up and would be especially compelling for lunchtime customers who are in a hurry.  The company's Sauce Lab has been a "tremendous success," the UBS analysts write. Buffalo Wild Wings releases new chicken wing sauces 7 times a year in flavors like Korean BBQ and Chipotle Cherry Sting. Many of the special flavors have sold out.  Management is also capitalizing on the craft beer trend and adding regional taps to the menu.  UBS analysts say that local sporting events are an "untapped market." "Some work needs to be done regarding rights to show games etc. but think about an away football game on a Friday night in a smaller market—we think it's an obvious initiative," the analysts write. "There are options for game replays and much more as well." FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia Commons The Wealthy Can Benefit Financially From Giving To Charity  (Investment News)  Investors who give money to charity end up winning big: Hefty donations result in major income-tax deductions. Charitable donations are a particularly good idea following the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012. Last year, many ultra-wealthy clients "wrote some sizable checks to the federal government." Donating is an especially valuable strategy to avoid this, writes Darla Mercado. This is relevant lately considering the incredible five-year bull market in stocks. Indeed, charitable donations are expected to go way up in 2014. "Fidelity Charitable made $1.6 billion in total donor-recommended grants for the first nine months of this year, up 27% from the year-ago period," reports Mercado. Additionally, donors are planning on giving away more assets this year — some will even give away interests in small businesses. However, Clients Also Face A Big Danger With Charitable Donations (Financial Planning) There are many benefits to charitable donations, including, for example, tax deductions. However, the biggest danger with charitable donations is that clients give up control of their money. It's important to make sure that clients will not be depending on the income stream generated by those assets, because once control is given up, the assets are no longer considered reliable, according to Steven Merkel, an adviser with Ciccarelli Advisory Services. "Don't allow the investment benefits or tax privileges or preferences to be the only reason you are going to go down this path," said Tim Maurer, the director of personal finance for Charleston-based BAM Alliance. SEC Chairwoman Will Clarify Stance On A Uniform Fiduciary Rule In The Short Term (Think Advisor) As of right now, SEC Chairwoman Mary Jo White has not publicly shared her opinion on the potential uniform fiduciary rule. There's been an ongoing debate over whether it will be instituted. However, on Monday, White said "that she would provide more 'clarity' as to her position regarding a uniform fiduciary rule in the 'short term,' despite the fact that the agency has not yet decided 'whether to do something or what to do' regarding such a rule making," reports Melanie Waddell. The hardest thing about the fiduciary rule, according to White, is the how-to question. "Care needs to be taken to ensure we're not harming investors by driving away service providers in the brokerage space," said White. There Is Still Hope For Japan (Advisor Perspectives)  Many people believe that they missed a rally during Japan's strong performance under Abenomics. However, there's still room for further appreciation in Japan, argues Christopher Gannatti. There are reasons why that's the case. First, the TOPIX is still more than 30% below precrisis levels. Second, "expectations of earnings for Japanese firms have been very strong during Abenomics." And third, profits have achieved record highs under Abenomics. During the first quarter of 2014, "Japanese profits had achieved record levels of over 17 trillion yen," writes Gannatti. The RBC Wealth-Management Division Just Swiped A Merrill Lynch Wealth-Management Team (The Wall Street Journal)  The RBC Wealth Management division just got a Merrill Lynch Management team led by Daniel Thompson. "Thompson and his team managed $103 million in assets under administration and $1.2 million in production," reports Michael Wursthorn. RBC Wealth has added many advisers over the fiscal year. The firm "has attracted 83 new advisers who managed more than $8 billion in assets and have more than $59 million in production" and now manages over $278 billion in assets, reports Wursthorn.     FREE AppDownload
Get ready to pay more for your Kentucky whiskey. Or do without it. Because of the recent spike in popularity of the brown spirit, distillers, who generally need to age even the cheapest stuff for 8-10 years, are warning that a major shortage is coming. This isn't a total surprise. Buffalo Trace Distillery warned last year that demand was outpacing supply and temporary product shortages were on the horizon. Well, the shortage is now here.  Here's what Buffalo Trace had to say in its distillery email blast today: Last year we warned consumers that a shortage was looming, but many markets across the nation are just now feeling the full effects. Along with increased production, adding more bottling lines and hiring more people, we have also hired a full-time barrel allocation manager, just as we intended last year. Despite the increase in distillation over the past few years, bourbon demand still outpaces supply. Bourbon must be matured in new oak barrels and we age many of our barrels for eight to ten years, and some over two decades. That’s a long time to wait for a bottle of bourbon. Not to mention, with the amount of bourbon lost to evaporation over time, barrels are half empty after ten years. The increase in sales, coupled with the aging process and evaporation loss, leads to a shortage with no end in sight. Thank you for your patience and understanding as we try to catch up! Buffalo Trace isn't the only distillery running into this problem. Bourbon is a lot more popular than it was 10 years ago, so it makes sense that most producers are going to run into supply problems for the next few years. Last year, Maker's Mark tried to get around the issue by diluting the alcohol that went into its bottles. That did not go well.   Presumably other distillers will just do what most businesses do when demand outstrips supply: raise prices. Carl Wycoff/flickr FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReuterspimcoNEW YORK (Reuters) - Pacific Investment Management Co. can withstand additional outflows of approximately $300-350 billion over the next two years before its portfolio management operation is impaired, according to research firm Morningstar Inc. on Tuesday. Pimco is struggling to stem redemptions after the unexpected departure of co-founder Bill Gross on Sept. 26, an event that has triggered another round of speculation in the bond market over leadership stability and a possible separation from its parent Allianz SE. Morningstar based its outflow estimate on the assumption that redemptions are orderly, Allianz continues its support and Pimco has strong firm-wide fund performance, Sumit Desai, an analyst at Chicago-based Morningstar, said in a webinar Tuesday to discuss the firm. Last week, Pimco reported outflows of $48.3 billion across its open-ended funds in October, adding to $25.5 billion of withdrawals in the previous month, Morningstar said. In the event investors gradually withdrew $350 billion from Pimco over two years, it would represent around 19 percent of total assets, based on data showing the Newport Beach, California asset manager held $1.87 trillion in funds as of Sept. 30. A majority of Pimco's firm-wide outflows in October stemmed from investors pulling money from its flagship Pimco Total Return Fund, which was managed by Gross. Doug Hodge, CEO of Pimco, said at a conference on Monday that outflows have tapered somewhat since a huge spike on the day of Gross' exit. Morningstar said the "wild cards" for Pimco include bond market volatility and a rebalancing out of fixed income. Ryan Mendy, coo of The Edge Consulting Group, said the outflows and organizational changes are weighing on Pimco's brand. "We still maintain a view that Pimco should be spunoff into a separate entity," Mendy said. "Without a Bill or Mohamed (El-Erian) at the helm, Pimco is deprived of both brand and human face. A colossal vertical mountain for a PR damaged company to climb. Pimco's board needs to demonstrate that they can protect both investors and their money by taking action." He said a spinoff "would lead to distinct, focused entity creating more value for the investors and shareholders. In addition, Allianz management would be able to directly focus on other asset management and insurance operations business, thereby mitigating the investor concerns on the Pimco's performance and redemption issues." Pimco did not immediately respond to repeated calls and emails for comment.   (Reporting By Jennifer Ablan; editing by Andrew Hay) FREE AppDownload
If you don't know your gels from your pomades, you're not alone.  The world of men's hair product is daunting, but don't be afraid. We've distilled it down to three basic categories that should suit any kind of hair. No matter what kind of hair you have, at least one of these products is bound to tame your mane and make it look great. www.fellowbarber.com and www.americancrew.com and blindbarber.com and www.fellowbarber.comFellow Barber Texture Paste ($22), American Crew Fiber ($14), Blind Barber 60 Proof Hair Wax ($18), and Uppercut Matt Clay ($22). Another benefit comes from the heaps of texture it adds to all types of hair. It's good for a "messy look" that actually doesn't look messy at all. Though it comes in many variations, most are made with different waxes like beeswax. They're also water soluble and will easily wash out of your hair.  American Crew Fiber is the tried-and-true hair wax favorite, but others like Uppercut's Matt Clay have been well reviewed. Other good choices include proprietary brands made by popular barber shop chains like Blind Barber and Fellow Barber. www.americancrew.com and blindbarber.com and www.fellowbarber.com and www.fellowbarber.comAmerican Crew Pomade ($13), Blind Barber 90 Proof Hair Pomade ($18), Uppercut Deluxe Pomade ($22), and Fellow Barber Strong Pomade ($22). The shiny finish and superior hold of pomades are what really separates them from hair waxes. Pomades are ideal for hair styles that don't need a lot of movement since they can sometimes feel waxy or greasy to the touch. All of our favorite hair wax brands also make very suitable pomades, including American Crew, Blind Barber, Uppercut, and Fellow Barber. Uppercut also makes an extra-strength pomade, called Monster Hold. www.amazon.com and www.moroccanoil.com and www.bumbleandbumble.com and www.fellowbarber.comMalin + Goetz Sage Styling Cream ($37), Moroccanoil Hydrating Styling Cream ($31), Bumble and Bumble Styling Creme ($26), and Fellow Barber Styling Cream ($22). In short, styling cream will leave your hair manageable without drying it out. For styling cream brands, you can't go wrong. Moroccanoil has gained a lot of popularity recently for taking good care of both men's and woman's hair, but men's-focused creams like the Fellow Barber's Styling Cream and Malin + Goetz's sage styling cream are also excellent choices. Finally, Bumble and Bumble makes another good unisex alternative. For most hair types, hair wax is your best bet to get your 'do to do what you want it to. The matte finish provides the perfect texture and weight without making your hair greasy or unpleasant to the touch. It's also easy to maintain throughout the day, with just a quick brush or swoop to fix it up, and washes out easily and cleanly. It's our pick for daily hair product. AP/Joel RyanDaniel Radcliffe doesn't look like he's wearing product in this picture, but we bet you he's wearing some form of hair wax. If you're looking for shine, however, the traditional pomade is your best bet. And if you just want to get your hair's frizz under control and make your hair more manageable (without any hold), styling cream is your stuff. As for hair products that were previously in vogue — like gel and mousse — don't bother. These products are best left remembered as fads in their respective heydays. A final word of warning: Watch out for the labels on hair products. Heavier pomades are starting to contain waxes such as beeswax when they traditionally didn't, and sometimes hair waxes are being labeled incorrectly as "pomades," a term that has become a synonym for "men's hair product."  When in doubt, just read the description and make sure the product delivers the high hold and low shine (matte finish) of a hair wax.    FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidStocks closed the day higher, though little changed, with the Dow and the S&amp;P 500 making a new all-time highs by virtue of closing in positive territory. This also marked the 40th time this year the S&amp;P 500 hit an all-time high. Tuesday saw some of the lightest trading volume in weeks as both banks the Treasury market were closed in observation of the Veterans Day holiday.  First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Tuesday: 1. Overall, it's a light week for economic data, but this morning we got the latest small business optimism survey from the National Federation of Independent Business. This report showed, among other things, that demand for good labor in the US is still in short supply, as 45% of the survey's respondents said there were "few or no qualified applicants" for available openings. Meanwhile, 19% of firms reported actual compensation changes in the past three months, and while this is a slight decline from prior months the uptrend from the financial crisis lows is still intact.  2. Meanwhile, the market is still waiting for meaningful signs of inflation, and Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro says that rent could be the thing that sets off an increase in inflation. Shepherdson told Business Insider's Shane Ferro on Tuesday that rent is the biggest component of CPI, accounting for about 40% of this index, and so if there is a tightening in the rental market in the form of higher rents, inflation could surprise to the upside.  3. Tuesday was Singles Day in China, a major shopping event in China equivalent to Black Friday or Cyber Monday in the US, and Alibaba, the Chinese e-commerce giant that went public in the US in September, said it pulled in sales totaling a record $9.3 billion on Tuesday. Last year, Alibaba saw sales of $5.8 billion on Singles Day.  4. On Tuesday, Business Insider's Drake Baer published a lengthy piece outlining the origin story of electric carmaker Tesla, run by charismatic CEO Elon Musk. Baer's report, which was compiled from months of interviews with former company insiders, shows how the company that has become the hottest car company in the US got its start.  5. Business Insider's Jay Yarow also threw out an idea for the US' biggest company, Apple: buy Tesla. Yarow argued that the iPhone maker might make better use of their considerable cash hoard buying Tesla rather than using this money to repurchase shares.  Don't Miss: The Chart Connecting The Fed To The Stock Market Has One Big Problem » FREE AppDownload
Harvard Business School has produced 64 billionaire alumni, the most by far of any graduate business school in the world, according to a new report from Wealth-X. There is a massive gap between Harvard and even the next highest ranked business school, Stanford University, which has 23 billionaire MBA alumni. No other university had more than 20 billionaire business school alumni. American universities dominated the business school alumni billionaires list, representing seven spots in the top 10. According to Wealth-X's report, nearly 50% of all billionaires with an MBA recieved their graduate degree from one of the 10 schools below. Wealth-X also recently released a report on schools with the most undergraduate alumni billionaires, with the University of Pennsylvania topping the list with 25 former student billionaires. Wealth-X president David Friedman told Business Insider that UPenn's billionaires represent successes in an array of fields, which suggests that the university isn't focused entirely on channeling students into financial services or technology. Here are the 10 business schools with the most billionaire alumni and how many alumni they have, via Wealth-X: FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ Eduardo MunozActivist investor Bill Ackman, who runs Pershing Square Capital, has taken a huge stake in animal health company Zoetis, the Wall Street Journal reports citing unnamed sources familiar with the investment.  Shares of Zoetis (ZTS) rose 8.86%, or $3.56, to end the day at $43.72 per share. The stock was last up in the late session.  Ackman's position is worth about $2 billion. It's about a 10% stake, the Wall Street Journal report said. According to the Journal, Ackman might push for Zoetis to be acquired by pharmaceutical company Valeant.  Valeant and Ackman teamed up earlier this year to pursue a takeover of Botox-maker Allergan in stock and cash. So far, Allergan has rejected Pershing Square's/Valeant's cash-and-stock bids for the company.  Here's a chart of Zoetis:  Google Finance  FREE AppDownload
Why don't I fight with people on Twitter? appeared as a question on Quora. Below we are republishing an answer from Josh Brown, CEO of Ritholtz Wealth Management and blogger at The Reformed Broker. I don't fight back when people insult me on Twitter (or anywhere else online, for that matter). I've been asked why many times over the years, because there are zero examples of me having flame wars or tweet fights anywhere. That's surprising to people given how long I've been around and how many people I interact with online. There are several reasons I don't ever fight back: 1. It would only make sense for me to spend time and energy fighting with a stranger on the internet if I cared what they thought or had a desire to change their opinion. I don't. 2. Whenever I see two other people going at it on Twitter, my immediate reaction is a cringe. I feel embarrassed for them and I certainly wouldn't want to come off that way myself. 3. Supposedly, Plato once said, "Be kind, for everyone you meet is fighting a hard battle."I don't know if he ever actually said that, but I absolutely agree with it, no matter where the saying came from. The world can be hard enough on people without me adding extra stress to anyone else's life. How dare we make someone's life tougher than it already is? Even if they throw the first punch, I don't want to cause pain. 4. I'm playing a much bigger game than maybe some people realize. Winning a battle that doesn't get me to where I'm going would be a hollow victory — and to win it in an ugly way could actually set me back. I don't know of many successful people who regularly give in to their initial impulses. The term discipline has been defined as forgoing the thing you want now for the thing you want most. That makes sense to me. 5. I believe in Karma, or at least in the concept. I've seen so many people get what they deserve and pay the price for lashing out, being nasty or attacking others. It's like driving slowly down the highway past a hundred car wrecks along the side of the road. 6. I learned a long time ago that my wit isn't a knife or a gun — it is an atomic bomb. One doesn't detonate a bomb lightly. When I was younger and less in control of myself, I said some things back to people that could never be forgotten. I still feel bad about it years later. Sometimes, when I'm insulted now, I'll craft the response in my mind, turning it over for an hour or two until I know it could rip the skin from their bones. And then I'll abstain from using it, because I realize that it will level a city block in the person's psyche and totally shatter the person. That would make me feel even worse. I've gotten quite good at letting it go. 7. I hate bullies. I'm raising my children to stand up for people, not to tear them down. When I see examples of bullying I feel a revulsion in the pit of my stomach, it's always been that way. I would never want to be thought of as someone who bullies others or uses whatever advantages I may have to hurt someone else. 8. If someone deliberately offends me online more than once, and I know who they are in real life, they get dealt with where it counts — offline. I said I'm a good person, but that doesn't mean I'm a victim. In my business, it's better to work with me than against me. Like anyone else, I'm a person with feelings and emotions and I can be hurt. Choosing not to turn around and inflict more hurt in response has helped me a great deal, even if it didn't always feel good at the time. Muting, unfollowing, and blocking are three very valuable tools, and I will always use them before going negative myself. "There is no such thing as defeat in non-violence." — Cesar Chavez Quora is the best answer to any question. Ask a question, get a great answer. Learn from experts and get insider knowledge. You can follow Quora on Twitter, Facebook, and Google+. FREE AppDownload
Aspiration, an online investment firm that launched Tuesday, has a radical idea. Unlike traditional investment firms, which charge a percentage of the assets invested, the company plans to go in another direction: Pay whatever you think is fair. "Our fee structure is very revolutionary," explains CEO and founder Andrei Cherny. "It empowers customers to make that decision and gives them the ability to decide whether or not we're doing a good job for them, and whether or not our values are aligned." He points out that in most investment firms, the people managing your money get paid the same amount whether or not they do a good job, and that hinging the company's livelihood on pleasing customers provides an incentive to serve them well. Cherny, who has a long history in financial regulation, ranging from a position as a financial fraud prosecutor to working with Senator Elizabeth Warren fighting for the establishment of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, built his investment firm for middle-class investors, who he says are under-served in the current market. "We're bringing forth a wide range of investment products and investments geared toward the needs of the middle-class investor," he explains. "Look at the customer base of hedge funds and private equity shops. They serve a clientele that's mostly multimillionaires and large institutions. Everyone else is buying stocks and mutual funds, doing it on their own." Aspiration is so committed to serving the middle-class investor that it has imposed not only the usual minimum investment requirements on its clients (in this case, an unusually low $500), but also a maximum investment: $100,000 per customer, per fund. Cherny says the cap is to keep the company focused on the under-served investor. "If you have a fund where some people pay $500 and a handful put in $10 million, you're almost naturally focused more on that type of customer." With the investment cap, Aspiration aims to limit that sort of bias. AspirationOn the Aspiration site, you can manage your investments and charitable contributions.Aspiration — whose motto is "Do Well. Do Good." — is also focused on giving back to the community. Through its "Dimes Worth Of Difference" campaign, it donates 10 cents of every dollar of revenue to provide micro-loans to struggling Americans. Additionally, users are encouraged to give the amount of their choosing to the charity of their choice on the website's dashboard. "It's the TOMS and Warby Parker approach to charitable giving," explains Cherny, "but instead of shoe for shoe, it's economic opportunity for economic opportunity." AspirationThe homepage of Aspiration is different than the sites of more traditional investment firms. Cherny isn't worried that his clients will refuse to pay. "A lot of behavioral psychology over the past 10 or so years shows that people have a strong sense of moral obligation and reciprocity," he explains. "That's as powerful or more powerful than locking people into a legal contract. If we're not delivering the products we said we would or living up to the values we set up for ourselves, they have the ability to not pay us." Aspiration is not the only company to use a pay-what-you-want strategy, but it's the first financial company we've come across. Some retailers have had success with the model — a North Carolina diner initially tripled its revenues when it asked customers to pay what God wants — but there's little evidence it's sustainable or that users trying to make the most of their money would choose to fork over fees. However, Cherny isn't alone in his confidence. The company, which has spent a little over a year getting ready for launch, has raised over $4.5 million in funding and counts eBay founding president Jeff Skoll as a member of its board of advisors. Aspiration's "radical approach to its customers' fees relies on a trust-based model, consistent in spirit with an approach that I saw drive eBay's early success," Skoll said in a press release. "It's a bold bet and one that I believe will shake up a financial industry that could use some positive disruption." Aspiration is now in an invite-only period, and will allow potential clients to "jump the line" by sharing information about the company on social media. FREE AppDownload
Norway has been ranked the most prosperous country in the world for the sixth year in a row, according to a new report on global prosperity released today by the Legatum Institute.  The 142 countries on the annual Prosperity Index were ranked using a "GDP and beyond" approach that measures a country's prosperity according to the strength of its economy, entrepreneurship and opportunity, governance, education, health, and safety. Personal freedom and social capital are considered as well.  Here is a graphic of the findings from the report (and here is the full report): Legatum Institute   Switzerland and New Zealand rank just behind Norway as the world's most prosperous nations, while the UK boasts the third lowest start-up costs in the world, making it extremely entrepreneur-friendly. Central African Republic remains at the bottom of the list for the third consecutive year. Overall, sub-Saharan Africa has seen the biggest regional jump in prosperity since 2009, while Russian prosperity has fallen the most in Europe, dropping seven places to number 68. Venezuela has fallen the most globally, dropping 22 places to 100th on the Index.
Thomson ReutersBlackRock CEO Laurence Fink participates in Flagship: The Future of Finance panel discussion in WashingtonBy Jessica Toonkel (Reuters) - BlackRock Inc is reorganizing its sales force and has hired Lee Beck, a former managing director with J.P. Morgan Funds, to oversee sales to wirehouses, according to an internal memo obtained by Reuters. The New York-based company is splitting its private client-focused sales force into two groups: wirehouses and independent broker dealers effective January, according to an email on Tuesday from Frank Porcelli, head of the U.S. wealth advisory business at BlackRock. Beck, who begins his new role at BlackRock early next year, had previously overseen global strategic relationships for J.P. Morgan Funds. In this role, which is new, Beck will oversee sales dedicated to wirehouses, or large national broker-dealers such as Bank of America Merrill Lynch or Morgan Stanley. The action comes as BlackRock, the world's largest asset manager, is seeing huge inflows into its U.S. exchange-traded funds and bond mutual funds. BlackRock's U.S. iShares ETFs have recorded inflows of $64.9 billion year to date through October, according to the company. Investors have poured $17.46 billion into its U.S. bond funds over the same period. BlackRock's actively managed equity funds, whose performance has lagged, have seen $6 billion in outflows through October, according to Morningstar. BlackRock, which bought Barclays Plc and its iShares exchange traded funds in 2009, spent much of 2013 integrating the iShares exchange-traded fund sales force with its own mutual fund sales force. In 2011, Porcelli told Reuters that the company's goal was to double its $300 billion actively managed retail fund business by end of 2014. As of Sept 30, the company's retail funds had $525.5 billion, according to the firm. "We are preparing to capture more fully opportunities in the independents and wirehouses," Porcelli wrote in Tuesday's email about the changes. Effective immediately, BlackRock will start rotating its sales leaders across channels and roles "to enhance training and development," according to the memo. BlackRock's reorganization comes as many analysts are saying the company is well-positioned as clients move their money away from bond manager Pacific Investment Management (Pimco) following the surprise departure of fund manager Bill Gross. In October alone, BlackRock's bond funds saw inflows of $5.2 billion, the most investors have put into the company's bond funds since May 1998, according to Morningstar.  (Reporting By Jessica Toonkel; additional reporting by Ashley Lau) FREE AppDownload
Andrew Burton/Getty ImagesTuesday is Veterans Day in the US.Stocks are doing nothing. In afternoon trade, the Dow was down 14 points, the S&amp;P 500 was down less than a point, and the Nasdaq was up 3 points. The bond market was closed on Tuesday in observation of the Veterans Day holiday.  The small losses in the stock market come after both the Dow and the S&amp;P 500 made new all-time highs on Monday. The big movers on Tuesday, however, were overseas, as the yen dropped again against the dollar, falling to a new 7-year low of 116 overnight after reports indicated that Japan could push back its planned sales tax increase.  Reports out of Japan also said that its prime minster Shinzo Abe could be planning a "snap election," which as Business Insider's Tomas Hirst reports, could allow Abe to force through policies that are politically challenging.  Gold and oil, which fell more than 1.5% on Monday, will also be in focus on Tuesday, as both commodities are currently sitting near multi-year lows.  In stock news, Alibaba shares will be talked about as Tuesday marks Singles Day in China, which is that country's equivalent of major US shopping events like Black Friday and Cyber Monday. Alibaba said that in the first hour of Singles Day, the company sold $2 billion in merchandise.  In early trade on Tuesday, Alibaba shares, which made a new all-time closing high on Monday, were down about 2%.  FREE AppDownload
CitiTariff rates versus time.The world economy has become increasingly globalized in recent decades. Improvement in fuel efficiencies and the proliferation of the internet have certainly helped. According to Citi Research, we shouldn't underestimate the impact of tumbling tariff rates have something to do with that. The analysts refer to this chart showing that tariff rates have significantly dropped since the 1980s. "The reduction in trade barriers ease up more than just the movement of goods and services as they often serve as a catalyst for both domestic and foreign direct investment," they write. India saw the most profound dive. Its peak average tariff rates were around 100% in the late 1980s. And tariffs on specifically industrial products maxed out at over 200% in 1990.  By 2009, both those numbers dropped to approximately 10%. This trend is just one of the factors that may turn India into a  leading economic powerhouse by 2050. Other countries also saw major drops. China's rates dropped from an average of 50% to less than 10%, and the world's average rates were cut in half to less than 10%. And it's not only the international trade barriers that have been reduced. Regional trade agreements have also sought out border goals of "deep economic and political cooperation and integration," which has helped nations develop their internal economies. FREE AppDownload
New York Times columnist and Princeton economist Paul Krugman spoke with our own Henry Blodget about Obamacare. In particular, the Supreme Court's decision to hear arguments in a case that could wipe out insurance subsidies in some states. Produced by Alex Kuzoian. Additional camera by Graham Flanagan and Devan Joseph. Follow BI Video: On Twitter
Melia Robinson/BIStudents in class sit at the oval-shaped Harkness Table, the cornerstone of Phillips Exeter Academy's unique, student-centered teaching method. Phillips Exeter Academy, recently named the best private high school in America by academic review site Niche.com and regularly called America's best boarding school, has educated some of the most powerful people in history. Its alumni base includes 19 state governors, five US senators, five Olympic athletes, two Nobel Prize winners, a US President, and even tech moguls like Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg and Quora founder Adam D'Angelo. Many millionaires and a handful of billionaires are products of the Exeter community and have helped grow the school's endowment to $1.2 billion. The fund supports many students' tuition, which otherwise costs $46,905 a year for boarding students. When Dr. John Phillips, a graduate of Harvard and resident of Exeter, New Hampshire opened the Academy in 1781, he set out to teach young men "the great and real business of living." More than two centuries later, the now co-ed school prides itself on the strength of its network, its commitment to spreading kindness, and on its use of the Harkness Method, a unique teaching model that schools around the world strive to imitate. I recently spent the day as a student at Phillips Exeter Academy, located in Exeter, New Hampshire, to see why it's the best.
The bond market knew the South couldn't win the Civil War. According to a new Centre for Economic Policy Research discussion paper, (via WaPo's Matt O'Brien), European bond markets during the Civil War showed that at most, the South had a 42% chance of winning. The paper's abstract said the researchers used the market's pricing of the probability that debt would be repaid as a proxy for that side's chance of winning a civil war. The odds of the Confederacy winning the Civil War plummeted to 28% in September 1863 after that July's battle at Gettysburg, and the bond market marked the South's chances of the South winning the war down from 28% in September 1863 to about 10% by May 1864.  The Civil War, however, didn't officially end until May 1865.  The bond market was closed for Veterans Day on Tuesday, and fortunately there is no civil war for today's traders to predict the outcome of: today, we're only guessing at when the Fed will raise interest rates.  Here's the chart of the South's demise: WaPo/CEPR FREE AppDownload
Renting is all the rage these days, and the tightening of the residential rental market is the biggest threat to inflation, according to Ian Shepherdson, the chief economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics.  The logic is simple. When there are few places to rent, landlords will jack up prices. This chart was featured in Shepherdson's new monthly chartbook. We reached out to him to ask him why this is the biggest threat. Here's what he had to say:  "...it's by far the biggest component of core CPI, accounting for about 40% of the index.  Rents reflect the vacancy rate (very low and falling) and wage growth (very low but about to accelerate, given the drop in unemployment and the pressures evident in surveys like the NFIB) so the risk is substantially to the upside.  Rents are much bigger driver of inflation than all the things people think of as indicative of price pressures, like clothing, tech gadgets, prescription drugs, cars, etc." Shepherson has cautioned about falling vacancy rates being a threat to inflation before. Here's a quote from a note he put out in August (emphasis Shepherdson):  "...a sharp and continuing decline explains the gradual upward pressure on rents, which we think are likely ro rise much faster once wage gains begin to pick up. Landlords are likely to be prime beneficiaries of faster wage gains, in our view, because tenants clearly have a shrinking pool of other options. Remember, rents and rent-equivalents account for 40% of the core CPI." Pantheon Macroeconomics FREE AppDownload
Less than a year after appointing outsider Shaygan Kheradpir to be its new CEO, Juniper Networks announced late Monday that Kheradpir has left the company. And he was asked to resign for a really odd reason: "his conduct in connection with a particular negotiation with a customer," the company said in the press release. People are calling the abrupt departure of Kheradpir a mystery because no one seems to know what went down with that customer. Here's what we do know about his departure. In an internal email to Juniper employees obtained by Jim Duffy at Network World, Kriens gave another hint as to what went down with Kheradpir. Kriens wrote that Juniper's own leadership was causing people in the industry to have "doubts" about the company. While many still believe in us, others are skeptical, and we have given them some reason to be. ... While some of our challenges are felt by the entire networking industry, some are made more difficult by doubts about Juniper and some of those doubts have been brought on by Juniper itself. That stops today. ... In this time of opportunity, Juniper must have trusted, clear, decisive, and courageous leadership at the very top of the company.  Wall Street analysts were uniformly surprised at the news that Kheradpi was out. MKM Partners’ Michael Genovese (neutral rating, $20 target price) summed up the street's thoughts, as reported by Barron's:  The news is particularly surprising not only because of Kheradpir’s short tenure, but also because he was front and center presenting the company’s strategy and business model just two weeks ago at Juniper Network’s Investor Day ... We remain unclear in regards to the real story behind why Juniper brought Shaygan Kheradpir in a year ago from the outside to be CEO but has suddenly changed course and appointed Rami." Analysts are, however, also uniformly pleased with the choice for the new CEO, 17-year Juniper veteran Rami Rahim. Rahim was employee #32 at the company, a key engineer for Juniper's flagship networking equipment products. He is well-liked inside the company and out. Genovese called Rahim "extremely smart and charismatic." FREE AppDownload
Almy/The GuardianThe house, featuring a 7.5 metre fibreglass shark, is described as "period cottage forming part of a famous city landmark."Just when you thought it was safe to go back in the loft … Headington’s famous shark house has been put up to rent. The property, which is perhaps the east Oxford suburb’s most notable residence, is being advertised at £519 ($826) a week, or £2,250 ($3,583) a month, and is being marketed at families or mature students. Letting agents at Scott Fraser describe the three-bedroom house on New High Street, as a “period cottage with stylish modern interiors forming part of a famous city landmark”. The rent is higher than the average for Headington quoted by property website Zoopla, which puts the typical cost of a three-bedroom home at £335 ($533) a week. However, all of the bedrooms are ensuite and the property has been recently refurbished. The 7.5 metre fibreglass shark attracted worldwide fame when it arrived on this otherwise fairly remarkable street in August 1986, on the 41st anniversary of the dropping of the atomic bomb on Nagasaki, seemingly as a statement of the homeowner’s feeling of despair at the nuclear threat of the time. Despite the local council’s attempts to get rid of it, the shark survived, thanks to an appeal to the then secretary of state for the environment, Michael Heseltine. It has been a feature of the Headington skyline ever since, and the brochure quotes a previous tenant of the house saying: “You quickly get used to people taking photographs outside and it does not really affect living there. On the rare occasions that we are asked about the shark the people have always been very polite and genuinely interested in the story. It has been a lot of fun living in such a local landmark.” The advert suggests that it might be: “suitable for a family who are passionate about being involved with the local community and who will enjoy not only living in but living with the famous Headington shark,” adding “sorry no pets”. As if your goldfish would ever have been happy living there. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
The ravenous appetite for New York City new development product has a growing number of wealthy buyers scooping up luxury homes sight unseen. Since Sept. 1, a whopping 45 percent of contracts signed on units above $4 million were made off of floorplans, according to Olshan Realty’s latest luxury market report. “It’s the highest I’ve seen,” the firm’s founder Donna Olshan told The Real Deal. The data indicates an upward trend. Since Jan. 1 to Sept. 1, 37 percent of contracts signed at $4 million or more were off of floorplans, compared to 34 percent for the same period last year. A $19.75 million penthouse at Rudin Management’s Greenwich Lane, for example, which went into contract the week of October 6, was sold off floorplans. The 3,977-square-foot condo is located at 140 West 12th Street. A week earlier, a buyer signed a contract – also off of floorplans – on a $10.55 million, 3,594-square-foot penthouse at Time Equities’ 50 West. The building’s 191 units are currently 40 percent sold, said Time Equities’ director of residential sales and marketing Roberta Axelrod. In the current market, buyers have been eager to purchase early, before prices increase, according to Axelrod. “People are anxious to get in on it and not miss the opportunity,” she said. “If you buy sooner, not only is the price going to be less, but there’s more selection of units and more availability.” She also noted that marketing preconstruction property has become a more refined process. In the case of 50 West, the developer had a photographer snap pictures of the building’s views at different heights, and the sales office has a large, curved screen where Axelrod can show prospective buyers the view from every floor. “We have been able to give people a very clear sense of what it’s going to be like,” she said. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersHomes are seen for sale in the northwest area of PortlandBy Sagarika Jaisinghani (Reuters) - Many U.S. home buyers are returning to the market after almost a year as interest rates stabilize and regulators propose more relaxed rules on mortgage lending. U.S. homebuilders D.R. Horton Inc and Toll Brothers Inc reported jumps in orders this week at rates not seen since last year. "We're definitely seeing a lot more purchase business than we have in the past," said Matt Hackett, underwriting manager at Equity Now, a New York-based mortgage lender. Interest rates fell in October to their lowest since June 2013 after rising steadily for the past year. Although up slightly since, they are still at historic lows. New rules proposed will allow Americans to buy homes with down payments as low as 3 percent. "The buyers realize that they're never going to get this kind of low interest rate environment," said David Crowe, chief economist at the National Association of Home Builders. Wayne Wellington, a 47-year old inspector at the Broward County housing authority in Florida, said he wanted to upgrade his current house for a larger property before rates spiked. "Interest rates look like they're on the verge of moving up a little bit and I've got to capitalize now on these wonderful rates," he told Reuters. The improvement in buyer sentiment is bringing much needed relief to homebuilders, which reported an underwhelming spring selling season this year. Spring selling is to homebuilders what the holiday season is to retailers. "First-time home buyers are the ones missing from the marketplace (and) part of the reason we've had a relatively slow recovery in housing. Some relaxation in the overly restrictive lending standards will bring the first-time home buyer back," Crowe said. The Dow Jones U.S. home construction index rose about 4 percent this year to Monday's close, after doubling between January 2012 and January 2014. Five of the largest U.S. homebuilders - D.R. Horton, Toll Brothers, Lennar Corp, PulteGroup Inc and KB Home - trade below their intrinsic values, according to StarMine. The StarMine model measures how much a stock should be worth when considering expected growth rates over the next 15 years.  (Additional reporting by Ankit Ajmera in Bangalore; Editing by Saumyadeb Chakrabarty) FREE AppDownload
ReutersEmployees sort packages at a hub of Shentong (STO) Express delivery company in Jiujiang, Jiangxi province, November 11, 2014. The sales number blows past Alibaba's previous record of nearly $5.8 billion during the 24-hour period on Nov. 11 last year. The company said it has already shipped more than 278 million orders, up from the 150 million packages it shipped last year.  ReutersAn employee sorts packages at a hub of Shentong (STO) Express delivery company in Jiujiang, Jiangxi province, November 11, 2014. The shopping blitz is held every year on Nov. 11 (11/11) to celebrate Singles' Day, an anti-Valentine's Day holiday that emerged in China two decades ago as a time for bachelors and bachelorettes to celebrate the single life. Alibaba — China's largest e-commerce company — offers deep discounts on everything from cars to clothes for the holiday.  ReutersA general view shows employees sorting packages along a conveyor belt at a hub of ZTO Express Delivery company in Wuhan, Hubei province following Singles Day in 2012. The company hopes to expand Singles' Day to global consumers by 2019, Alibaba founder and executive chairman Jack Ma said Tuesday in an interview with CNBC. Here's a look at how much sales have grown for Alibaba's two e-commerce sites, Tmall and Taobao Marketplace, on the holiday over the years, according to TechInAsia.   Within the first several hours of the day, the company's sales eclipsed the $3.7 billion in online sales recorded last year on Thanksgiving Day, Black Friday, and Cyber Monday — the largest online sales days in the US. ReutersEmployees sort packages at a hub of an express delivery company in Nantong, Jiangsu province, following Singles Day in 2012. ReutersEmployees sort packages at hub of ZTO Express Delivery company in Wuhan, Hubei following Singles' Day in 2012. 1) Xiaomi — the Chinese smartphone company that is on pace to report $1 billion in profits this year  2) Haier — the Chinese multinational consumer electronics and home appliances company 3) Uniqlo — the Japanese apparel retailer 4) Huawei — the Chinese multinational telecoms hardware and smartphone maker 5) Linshimuye —the Chinese furniture retailer FREE AppDownload
There are certain tools that everyone should have around the house. Insider Picks has put together a handy list of all the tools and in-case-of-emergency items you'll need to complete your grown-up home. You can skip that long-overdue trip to Home Depot. We've got it all here for you. If you don't want to buy a million individual tools, this is a good item to have around the house. You'll be able to take care of any minor emergency with one of these. This one comes with several knives, pliers, wire cutters, small, medium, and Phillips screw drivers, a saw, a bottle opener, a can opener, and ever a ruler. AmazonLeatherman Sidekick Multi ToolLeatherman Sidekick Multi-Tool | Amazon If you don't need all those bells and whistles, at least get yourself a Swiss Army knife. Victorinox Swiss Army Huntsman II Knife | Amazon Victorinox Swiss Champ Pocket Knife | Amazon Instead of (incorrectly) guessing how large a room is, why not get the exact numbers? For most people, a tape measure is one of those things they never think of buying until the exact moment they need one. So, here you go.  AmazonStanley 33-425 Powerlock 25-Foot by 1-Inch Measuring TapeStanley 33-425 Powerlock 25-Foot by 1 Inch Measuring Tape | Amazon Komelon SL2925 Self Lock Speed Mark 25-Foot Power Tape | Amazon We've selected the best vacuum cleaners on the market for you. Say goodbye to those bulky monstrosities of your childhood — and get yourself one of these lightweight and durable vacuum cleaners that'll last for a long time. Plus they're small, so they're easy to store in closets. AmazonMiele S2121 Capri Canister Vacuum CleanerMiele S2121 Capri Canister Vacuum Cleaner | Amazon Dyson DC 41 Animal Bagless Vacuum Cleaner | Amazon Dyson DC 26 Multi Floor Compact Canister Vacuum Cleaner | Amazon Dyson DC39 Animal Canister Vacuum Cleaner with Tangle-free Turbine Tool | Amazon AmazonWASING Explosion Proof Tactical Cree Led 3 Mode Adjustable Focus Flashlight Torch "But I have my smartphone ..." Hate to burst your bubble, but your phone's going to lose battery pretty quickly once your house loses power — you won't have any way of charging it. It's always good to have a flashlight with long-lasting batteries around the house.  WASING 8 Hours Long Lasting Explosion Proof Flashlight Torch | Amazon LE Adjustable Focus CREE LED Flashlight, Super Bright (Batteries Included) | Amazon 7W 300LM Mini Cree LED Flashlight Torch Adjustable Focus Zoom | Amazon Dorcy 41-4750 190-Lumen High Flux LED | Amazon Helotex G2 Tactical Flashlight | Amazon You're going to want a cordless drill in order to avoid the hassle of tangled wires. In other words, you can reach the awkward angles, and you can even work outside with them. We've selected lightweight, but powerful options for whenever you're going to need to work on some home improvement project. AmazonDEWALT DC970K-2 18-Volt Drill/Driver KitDEWALT 18-Volt Drill | Amazon Black &amp; Decker LDX120C 20-Volt MAX Cordless Drill | Amazon Genesis GCD18BK 18v Cordless Drill | Amazon PORTER-CABLE 20-volt 1/2 Inch Lithium Ion Drill | Amazon If your car battery goes dead, you're going to need some jumper cables. You connect the cables to a secondary battery in order to get your car working. You might think you don't need these — and then there will be that one day you're stuck on the side of the road. Alone. AmazonSuper Heavy Duty 500 Amp 6 GaugeSuper Heavy Duty 500 Amp 6 Gauge | Amazon AAA 42 Piece Emergency Road Assistance Kit | Amazon Capri Tools Heavy-Duty Auto Jumper Cables | Amazon Wilmar (W1673) 20' 4-Gauge Jumper Cable | Amazon Heavy Duty 2 Gauge Wire Extra Long 25 Feet | Amazon Unique Imports 200 Amp 10 Gauge | Amazon AmazonCrescent AT16 Adjustable Wrench Black Oxide Finish Whenever you have a nut or bolt to finagle with, you'll need a wrench. The adjustable ones are the better option because then you can get a better grip on the bolt. Crescent AT16 Adjustable Wrench Black Oxide Finish | Amazon Stanley 8-inch Adjustable Wrench | Amazon Stanley 10-inch MaxSteel Adjustable Wrench | Amazon Stanley 12-inch Adjustable Wrench | Amazon You'll need two kinds of screwdrivers: a flathead and a Phillips. The flathead is your basic, regular screw with a single slot.  Amazon3.5" Long Shaft Length 6mm Flathead Slotted Screwdriver  3.5" Long Shaft Length 6mm Flathead Slotted Screwdriver Tool | Amazon Stanley 60-006 Standard Fluted Standard Slotted Tip | Amazon Greenlee 0453-14C Screw Holding Flathead Screwdriver | Amazon But you'll also need a Phillips screwdriver — which is commonly used today. This has a a + shape to it. AmazonKlein Tools 603-4 No.2 Profilated Phillips Tip 4-Inch Round Shank ScrewdriverKlein Tools 603-4 No. 2 Profilated Phillips Tip 4-Inch | Amazon TEKTON 2716 #2 Phillips by 6-inch Screwdriver | Amazon Roadpro RPS1020 3" x 6" Phillips Head Screwdriver with Magnetic Tip | Amazon You'll need the claw hammer to pound nails in, or to pull them out. Typically, these are used for wood projects. AmazonEstwing E16S 16-Ounce Straight Claw Leather Handle HammerEstwing E16S 16-Ounce Straight Claw Leather Handle Hammer | Amazon Stanley 51-624 20-Ounce Rip Claw Fiberglass Hammer | Amazon MAXCRAFT 60626 8-oz. Stubby Claw Hammer | Amazon Estwing Mfg Co. E3-16S 16-Ounce Rip Claw Hammer with Steel Handle | Amazon TEKTON 3016 8-oz. Tubular Steel Claw Hammer | Amazon A car jack is used to lift a car (or any other heavy object). If there's something wrong with your car, this is the best way to get it off the ground so that you can figure out what the issue is. AmazonTorin T10152 Scissor Jack - 1.5 TonTorin T10152 Scissor Jack — 1.5 Ton | Amazon Powerzone 380044 3 Ton Aluminum and Steel Garage Jack | Amazon Torin T43002A 3 Ton Double Locking Jack Stands | Amazon Torin T82012 2 Ton Hydraulic Trolley Jack in Plastic Case | Amazon Did we miss anything? Let us know in the comments. Disclosure: This post is brought to you by Business Insider's Insider Picks team. We aim to highlight products and services you might find interesting, and if you buy them, we may get a small share of the revenue from the sale. This is not an advertiser sponsored post and we operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback.Have something you think we should know about? Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com. FREE AppDownload
Real Vision Television Raoul Pal"I did some analysis a while ago," Raoul Pal said. "[It] was to try and create a valuation framework that gives some value to bitcoin because nobody really knows that it's worth." Pal, a former global macro fund manager and current author of the Global Macro Investor newsletter, is talking about the bizarre digital cryptocurrency that saw its value surge north of $1,200 a year ago. "So I said OK well let's assume it's something like gold—There's a finite amount of it," Pal said in an interview with Grant Williams on Real Vision Television. "There's a finite amount that's been mined. The rest is underground. We kind of know how long it's going to take before all the gold is mined or before all the bitcoins. Put them in the same kind of equation we get a value of bitcoin and that value is a million dollars. Now, you'll never hear an analyst say this—but I don't mind this—I could be wrong by 90%, and it's still worth $100,000." At the time of the interview, bitcoin was trading around $650. Right now, it's at around $364.  Coin DeskHere's how bitcoin has traded since July 2010. One concern people have about bitcoin is the volatility in price swings. Pal said the volatility is fine. He thinks that the upside is "astronomical" compared to the downside.  Right now, bitcoin is still in its infancy and it's not going to go away because of the amount of people behind it. Pal expects central banks will have to regulate bitcoin over time, but that's not a problem. "What they can't do is destroy it and that's why bitcoin becomes incredibly interesting," he said. Even though he has a high valuation, Pal doesn't recommend that people put their entire life savings in bitcoin. He suggested treating it like an option contract.  Buying bitcoin is something Pal strongly believes in, especially because he thinks we are at risk of losing faith in money. He worries about the consequences of central banks are printing too much of it. There's an unfavorable perception that they're "rigging" the system by keeping rates low and buying the bond market. His suggestion is to avoid the bond market. Pal also thinks that people should be careful about how they own their gold. Because of the proliferation of derivatives and ETFs, gold is just the collateral to a highly-leveraged "monster." He thinks that it's best to buy physically unencumbered gold instead of paper gold. Watch the full Real Vision Television interview below:  FREE AppDownload
In October 1983, the US invaded Grenada to end the four year reign of military dictator Hudson Austin. The invasion was criticized by UN member states, including the United Kingdom, which had controlled the island prior to the Communist coup. The day after the invasion, President Reagan called Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher to apologize for leaving her in the dark regarding the military offensive. Produced by Alex Kuzoian. Video courtesy of Associated Press. Follow BI Video: On YouTube
Congrats Mr. &amp; Mrs. Eric Trump! #laragetstrumped A photo posted by Clayton Thomas Orrigo (@claytonorrigo) on Nov 11, 2014 at 2:45pm PST The ceremony was held on the lawn of the Trump-owned Mar-a-Lago Club in Palm Beach, Florida where 450 guests gathered to watch Eric and Lara tie the knot. #CharlieDog has his #wedding game face on! #TwoDaysToGo A photo posted by Lara Lea Yunaska (@larayunaska) on Nov 11, 2014 at 5:52am PST #maralago #trump #beachclub A photo posted by Dennis Vereten (@dennisvereten) on Nov 11, 2014 at 8:35am PST From last night #congratulations Eric &amp; Lara pic.twitter.com/BL2EdMLlLt Ivanka's daughter Arabella was even a flower girl, and Lara and Eric's dog was their ring bearer (while wearing adorable dog cuff links). Our Flower Girl's ride to the wedding... #Eric&amp;Lara A photo posted by Ivanka Trump (@ivankatrump) on Nov 11, 2014 at 5:51am PST I mean... This is literally THE cutest thing I've ever seen. Puppy cuff links for #charliedog! Best ring bearer ever! Xoxoxoxo @larayunaska @erictrump A photo posted by Katie (@ktwellie) on Nov 11, 2014 at 3:31pm PST The bride wore two custom Vera Wang wedding gowns, one for the ceremony and another for the reception, People reported. Daddy's girl. #ericloveslara #aisletime #letsdothis #beautifulbride A photo posted by Eliza Murphy (@elizawmurphy) on Nov 11, 2014 at 8:21am PST Congrats @erictrump @larayunaska! Way to make casts look chic <f0><U+009F><U+0099><U+008C>. #laragetstrumped #weddingseason A photo posted by Vanessa Fitz (@ronnie_fitz) on Nov 11, 2014 at 4:41am PST Love you @larayunaska!! You are a magnificent bride and lovely friend. Congratulations to you and @erictrump #weddingday #mrs #trump #maralago #palmbeach A photo posted by Ali Taub (@alibtaub) on Nov 11, 2014 at 7:12pm PST Wedding countdown: 2 weeks and 2 casts to go! <f0><U+009F><U+0091><U+00B0><f0><U+009F><U+0092><U+0098> #HopeImAFastHealer<  style="color: #c9c8cd; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 14px; line-height: 17px; margin-bottom: 0; margin-top: 8px; overflow: hidden; padding: 8px 0 7px; text-align: center; text-overflow: ellipsis; white-space: nowrap;">Una foto publicada por Lara Lea Yunaska (@larayunaska) on Oct 10, 2014 at 3:49 PDT<  class="p1">Eric proposed to Lara, a TV producer for Inside Edition, back on July 4th, 2013 after dating for five years. He gave her a diamond platinum ring from his sister's Ivanka Trump Fine Jewelry collection. The bride also wore Ivanka Trump jewelry for her wedding day.<  style="margin: 8px 0 0 0; padding: 0 4px;">My favorite picture from our July 4th engagement @erictrump #love #engaged #idontbelieveitstill #somebodypinchme<  style="color: #c9c8cd; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 14px; line-height: 17px; margin-bottom: 0; margin-top: 8px; overflow: hidden; padding: 8px 0 7px; text-align: center; text-overflow: ellipsis; white-space: nowrap;">A photo posted by Lara Lea Yunaska (@larayunaska) on Jul 7, 2013 at 4:12pm PDT<  style="font-family: Helvetica Neue, Arial, sans-serif; color: white; font-size: 18px; font-weight: 100; line-height: 20px; margin-top: 23px;">FREE AppDownload<
OPEC's analysis of future of global oil demand growth rest on hugely optimistic assumptions about the prospects for China's growth. In this year's World Oil Outlook, the cartel provided its forecasts for oil demand up to 2040.  Here's the killer chart, showing that additional demand over the next three decades is almost all expected to come from Asia. OPEC World Oil Outlook What's the problem here? Well, a huge chunk of that demand is expected to come, both directly or indirectly, from one country in particular: China. OPEC expects China to grow at an average of 7% between 2014-2020, and over 5% between 2020-2040. That rate of growth would see China rip past the US on purchasing power parity terms to become the world's largest economy. As the report states, on this forecast China's GDP will "considerably exceed" each of the OECD regions by 2040. OPEC World Oil Outlook The problem is that this forecast relies on China being able to shrug off its current slowdown and rebalance its economy relatively painlessly. These assumptions, however, are not shared by many analysts of the region. George Magnus, former chief economist of UBS and currently an independent economist, expects the Chinese economy to struggle to reach growth expectations. "The last time it was forecasting double-digit growth on a five year horizon was 2009. Since then, the intermediate term economic forecasts have been revised down steadily from close to 10% to now, around 6.5%," he writes. "I expect this pattern will continue to reflect a) the secular fade in the leading edge role in growth played by China’s real estate and construction sectors and b) the inevitable slowdown, sooner or later, of credit creation and debt accumulation. During Xi’s period in office, which runs to 2022, I expect China’s GDP growth to slide to 4-5%, and there may be periods when growth doesn’t even make it to this level." His view is supported by Michael Pettis, professor of finance at Guanghua School of Management at Peking University in Beijing, who argues that in order for the Chinese economy to successfully rebalance away from relying on exports towards a consumer demand-driven economy over the coming years "GDP growth must drop every year for the next five or six years by at least 1 percentage point". That would mean that the country's economy would grow at an average of 3-4% a year to 2023 — well below OPEC's forecast. So what does this all mean? Basically, OPEC is banking on China's growth to soak up any falls in oil demand as the western world slowly weans itself off the commodity. OPEC World Oil Outlook If that demand doesn't materialise then the cartel will have a much more difficult time influencing global oil prices that are crucial to its members' ability to plan economic policy. Rather than China becoming more and more addicted to oil, it seems that OPEC is increasingly an addict of Chinese growth. FREE AppDownload
OPEC's analysis of future of global oil demand growth rest on hugely optimistic assumptions about the prospects for China's growth. In this year's World Oil Outlook, the cartel provided its forecasts for oil demand up to 2040.  Here's the killer chart, showing that additional demand over the next three decades is almost all expected to come from Asia. OPEC World Oil Outlook What's the problem here? Well, a huge chunk of that demand is expected to come, both directly or indirectly, from one country in particular: China. OPEC expects China to grow at an average of 7% between 2014-2020, and over 5% between 2020-2040. That rate of growth would see China rip past the US on purchasing power parity terms to become the world's largest economy. As the report states, on this forecast China's GDP will "considerably exceed" each of the OECD regions by 2040. OPEC World Oil Outlook The problem is that this forecast relies on China being able to shrug off its current slowdown and rebalance its economy relatively painlessly. These assumptions, however, are not shared by many analysts of the region. George Magnus, former chief economist of UBS and currently an independent economist, expects the Chinese economy to struggle to reach growth expectations. "The last time it was forecasting double-digit growth on a five year horizon was 2009. Since then, the intermediate term economic forecasts have been revised down steadily from close to 10% to now, around 6.5%," he writes. "I expect this pattern will continue to reflect a) the secular fade in the leading edge role in growth played by China’s real estate and construction sectors and b) the inevitable slowdown, sooner or later, of credit creation and debt accumulation. During Xi’s period in office, which runs to 2022, I expect China’s GDP growth to slide to 4-5%, and there may be periods when growth doesn’t even make it to this level." His view is supported by Michael Pettis, professor of finance at Guanghua School of Management at Peking University in Beijing, who argues that in order for the Chinese economy to successfully rebalance away from relying on exports towards a consumer demand-driven economy over the coming years "GDP growth must drop every year for the next five or six years by at least 1 percentage point". That would mean that the country's economy would grow at an average of 3-4% a year to 2023 — well below OPEC's forecast. So what does this all mean? Basically, OPEC is banking on China's growth to soak up any falls in oil demand as the western world slowly weans itself off the commodity. OPEC World Oil Outlook If that demand doesn't materialise then the cartel will have a much more difficult time influencing global oil prices that are crucial to its members' ability to plan economic policy. Rather than China becoming more and more addicted to oil, it seems that OPEC is increasingly an addict of Chinese growth. FREE AppDownload
The Gherkin, one of London’s most recognizable skyscrapers, has been bought by the billionaire Brazilian banker Joseph Safra, in a deal thought to be worth more than £700m ($1.1 billion). Safra, who has a $14.9bn (£9.4bn) fortune according to Forbes magazine, bought 30 St Mary’s Axe – better known as the Gherkin – from the receivers. No price was disclosed but the Financial Times said Safra paid £726m(£) for the 180 metre-high Norman Foster-designed tower. “While only 10 years old, this building is already a London icon that is distinguished from others in the market, with excellent value growth potential,” Safra Group said in a statement. “We intend to make the building even better and more desirable through active ownership that will lead to a range of enhancements that will benefit tenants.” The building was put up for sale earlier this year with a guide price of £650m after its previous owners, private equity firm Evans Randall and German property investor IVG, defaulted on a loan. They bought the tower from reinsurer Swiss Re – the largest tenant – for £600m in 2007. The Gherkin is the second-tallest tower in the City of London and the sixth-highest in London. The glass dome at the very top of the building – which boasts 360 degree views of London – can be hired out for business functions and weddings. Tickets for a New Year’s Eve party in the dome cost £290 per person for people who are not members of Searcy’s, the club that runs the top three floors of the Gherkin. Safra, 74, was born into a rich banking family in Lebanon. The family moved to São Paulo, Brazil, in 1952. Joseph Safra founded Banco Safra, now Brazil’s eighth biggest bank in 1955. Safra Group recently announced a $1.3bn deal to buy US banana giant Chiquita in partnership with Brazilian juice company Cutrale. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
ZeroHedgeDaily Mail reports the coins could look like this.It appears the terrorist organization known as Islamic State has been watching the fiasco of fiat money and reading Alan Greenspan and Ron Paul.  As The Daily Mail reports, ISIS wants to introduce its own currency and plans to bring back solid gold and silver dinar coins in an attempt to solidify its makeshift caliphate. Around 1500 years after the Dinar was first introduced, made from pure gold and silver, ISIS plans to implement the change within a few weeks, changing changing from regular dinars and Lira to golden dinars and silver dirhams.  As The Daily Mail reports, ISIS wants to introduce its own currency and plans to bring back solid gold and silver dinar coins, it has emerged. The Middle East terror group apparently wants to introduce its own Islamic currency as part of its attempts to solidify its makeshift caliphate. Militants are said to want to bring back the original dinar, which is an ancient currency from early Islam, and religious figures in Mosul and Iraq’s Nineveh province have apparently announced its return in mosques. The currency known as the dinar, which once consisted purely of gold and silver coins,is today used by a variety of countries, but the coins are created from different materials to the originals. However, the jihadi group is understood to be planning to return to the original gold and silver coins, which were first introduced during the Caliphate of Uthman in 634 CE....While ISIS has yet to confirm the introduction of its currency, social media is awash withclaims that leading religious figures announced the plans during recent prayers in Mosul and Nineveh province. It is believed the terror outfit wants to use the independent currency in areas it controls as part of its war on the West. The currency, which could be introduced within the next few weeks, will involve changing from regular dinars and Lira to golden dinars and silver dirhams. It seems Alan Greenspan may have been on to something after all... "Remember what we're looking at. Gold is a currency. It is still, by all evidence, a premier currency. No fiat currency, including the dollar, can match it." Of course this will mean more physical demand - along with Russia and China - and so more price suppression by the West. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas Jackson To get a picture of what a great writer Michael Lewis is, consider this. "Outliers" and "David and Goliath" author Malcolm Gladwell says that Lewis is his literary "hero" and "the finest storyteller of our generation."  Gladwell maintains that Lewis' football book "The Blind Side" is as "close to perfect" as any work of nonfiction can aspire to be. So it's no surprise that his books "Moneyball," "Flash Boys," and "The Big Short" have all become bestsellers. From where does Lewis — whose pen can shake Wall Street — draw inspiration? Here's what we found after digging into a decade's worth of interviews with him. FREE AppDownload
A bunch of nervous and anxious folks inside Goldman Sachs offices all around the world are awaiting an important phone call from chief executive Lloyd Blankfein.  On Wednesday morning, Blankfein or the firm's president Gary Cohn will inform a select few that they have been made a partnership managing director. Being made a partner at Goldman is one of the most highly coveted titles on Wall Street. Joining this elite group comes with a nice paycheck and numerous perks.  Here's everything you need to know about becoming a Goldman partner:  We'll get to meet the new class Wednesday. Best of luck to everyone in the running!  FREE AppDownload
NEW YORK (AP) — Two Mark Rothko paintings owned by Listerine fortune heir Rachel "Bunny" Mellon fetched more than $76 million at a Sotheby's auction of post-war and contemporary art on Monday. "Untitled (Yellow, Orange, Yellow, Light Orange)," from 1955, sold for $36.5 million, just over its pre-sale estimate high of $30 million. "Untitled," created 15 years later, brought in just under $40 million, almost double its top pre-sale estimate, Sotheby's said. Other items from the Mellon collection, including jewelry and furnishings, will be offered in a series of sales Nov. 20-23. The total could realize more than $100 million. Proceeds will benefit The Gerard B. Lambert Foundation, which supports The Oak Spring Garden Library in Upperville, Virginia. The library houses Mellon's collection of rare books, manuscripts and works of art related to landscape design, horticulture and natural history. Mellon, a noted horticulturist and widow of philanthropist Paul Mellon, died in March at age 103 at her Virginia estate. Mellon's grandfather Jordan W. Lambert created Listerine, and her father, Gerald Lambert, built a company that made everything from Dentyne to Schick razors. Paul Mellon had his own fortune, inherited from his Pittsburgh industrialist father and built on holdings in banking, coal, railroads, steel and aluminum. Bunny Mellon was a self-taught botanist and close friend of Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis. In 1961 she redesigned the White House Rose Garden, and later she created another White House garden that was named for Kennedy after her death. The Mellons donated hundreds of important artworks to museums, including the National Gallery of Art, founded in 1937 by Paul Mellon's father, Andrew Mellon. On Tuesday, a third Rothko painting will go under the gavel at Sotheby's. "No. 21 (Red, Brown, Black and Orange)," bought by art benefactors Pierre and Sao Schlumberger from Rothko's estate, could bring more than $50 million. The painting was first exhibited in the seminal exhibition "15 Americans" at the Museum of Modern Art in New York in 1952, a year after it was created. It has not been exhibited since a traveling retrospective of Rothko's work in 1971-72. The current Rothko auction record is $86.8 million for "Orange, Red, Yellow." Among other highlights at the Tuesday sale is Andy Warhol's 1974 "A group of Four Portraits of Sao Schlumberger." Sotheby's and Christie's also are cashing in on the Jeff Koons mania sweeping the globe. Sotheby's Tuesday sale features his "Moon (Yellow)," one of five moon sculptures he created in different colors and the first of them to appear at auction. A pink version was displayed at a recent Koons retrospective at the Whitney Museum of American Art. On Wednesday, Christie's is offering Koons' massive stainless steel "Balloon Monkey (Orange)." Koons became the most expensive living artist last year, when his "Balloon Dog (Orange)" was auctioned for $58.4 million. The week of high-end sales concludes with another blockbuster offering from Christie's on Wednesday: two Andy Warhol portraits never before seen at auction, one of Elvis Presley and the other of Marlon Brando. "Triple Elvis (Ferus Type)" and "Four Marlons" were acquired by German casino company WestSpiel in the 1970s. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
A group of Harvard students took the 1964 Louisiana Literacy Test as part of a project to raise awareness about barriers to voting.  States in the South issued similar tests some 50 years ago to voters who could not "prove a fifth grade education." They had to pass all 30 questions in 10 minutes to be eligible to vote.  None of the students passed the test.  Video courtesy of Carl L Miller
It's time again for my weekly gasoline update based on data from the Energy Information Administration (EIA). Rounded to the penny Regular and Premium both dropped another five cents. Regular is now at its lowest price since November 2010. Will the price decline in gasoline boost discretionary spending as we approach the holiday season? We'll get some clues on Friday with the Census Bureau's the first estimate of October Retail Sales. According to GasBuddy.com, even Hawaii has an average cost under $4.00 per gallon. The highest continental average price is in New York at $3.28. South Carolina has the cheapest Regular at $2.66. How far are we from the interim high prices of 2011 and the all-time highs of 2008? Here's a visual answer.  Click for a larger image The next chart is a weekly chart overlay of West Texas Intermediate Crude, Brent Crude and unleaded gasoline end-of-day spot prices (GASO). WTIC closed today at 77.40, down from 0.79 over the past five sessions.  The volatility in crude oil and gasoline prices has been clearly reflected in recent years in both the Consumer Price Index (CPI) and Personal Consumption Expenditures (PCE). For additional perspective on how energy prices are factored into the CPI, see What Inflation Means to You: Inside the Consumer Price Index.  Click for a larger image The chart below offers a comparison of the broader aggregate category of energy inflation since 2000, based on categories within Consumer Price Index (commentary here).  Click for a larger image Here are some additional commentaries related to gasoline prices: This article originally appeared at Advisor Perspectives.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Haver Analytics and Commodity Research Bureau Gold is a hedge against inflationary monetary policy. So why isn’t it soaring anymore? Maybe it isn’t doing so because the ultra-easy monetary policies of the major central banks haven’t boosted inflation. Instead, they’ve become increasingly concerned about the prospects of deflation, especially at the ECB and BOJ. At the Fed, the worry must be that the ECB and BOJ are exporting their deflation to the US by pursuing policies that are weakening their currencies. A strong dollar hasn’t historically been good for gold.  I’ve previously explained why ultra-easy monetary policy might be deflationary rather than inflationary. In brief, it might stimulate supply more than demand. In the past, easy money stimulated demand more than supply as borrowers borrowed lots of money and spent it all. Now their debt burdens are such that many may be maxed out. Meanwhile, suppliers have taken advantage of easy money to expand their capacity, assuming that “if you build, they will come.” That’s been a bad assumption for a lot of producers, especially of commodities.  Gold also tends to reflect the underlying trend in commodity prices, including the price of crude oil. Their trends have been mostly flat since 2011, and down more recently.  Haver Analytics and Commodity Research BureauToday's Morning Briefing: More Relief. (1) Recalling the causes of October’s panic attack. (2) Where are we now? (3) Cocoa price as an Ebola thermometer. (4) Reversal of futures: Distant crude oil prices exceeding nearby ones. (5) QE termination anxiety in US dissipated by more of it from ECB and BOJ. (6) Eurozone economy crawling along. (7) Chinese curse: Prolonged soft landing. (8) Falling oil prices depress Energy earnings, but boost Transportation earnings. (9) US consumers have the will and means to spend. (10) Crude oil plunge yields winners and losers. (11) Evil doers in Russia and Iran among the losers. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe Ferrari horse is picture on the back of the 599 GTB Fiorano on the exhibition stand of Ferrari on the first media day of the 80th Geneva Car Show at the Palexpo in GenevaBALOCCO Italy (Reuters) - The initial public offering of luxury carmaker Ferrari is expected to happen between the second and the third quarter of 2015, the chief executive of parent Fiat Chrysler Automobiles  (FCA) said on Tuesday. FCA CEO Sergio Marchionne said last month he would spin off Ferrari from the group, sell a 10 percent stake via a public offering and distribute the rest of FCA's stake in the luxury sports car brand to its shareholders. The spin-off is part of a bigger capital-raising plan that also includes a $2.5 billion convertible bond issue to help cut debt and fund an ambitious business plan at the world's seventh-largest carmaker. Marchionne said on Tuesday that after the capital raising the free float of FCA, which moved its primary listing to New York last month, could increase to around 20 percent of the group's capital. A roadshow to market the capital raising with U.S. investors is planned for December, he added  (Reporting by Gianni Montani, writing by Agnieszka Flak) FREE AppDownload
Christina Kelly — the estranged wife of Jefferies healthcare banker Sage Kelly — has issued an apology to the investment bank.  "A substantial portion of what has been written in the press and other media over the past few weeks is inaccurate, untrue or hyperbolic, and I apologize to those who have been affected thereby — including those at Jefferies and those associated with Jefferies," Kelly said in a signed statement. She didn't specifically point out what was inaccurate or untrue in the media reports. Bloomberg News reported that Kelly's attorney also declined to comment on whether she would walk back her accusations made in her affidavit. Last month, in a 26-page sworn affidavit as part of a divorce proceeding and custody battle seeking $7 million in damages, Kelly, who has two daughters with Sage, said her husband and numerous Jefferies bankers and clients had abused cocaine. All of the Jefferies bankers and clients named in the affidavit categorically denied her allegations.  Kelly also alleged that her husband had used other illicit substances like ecstasy, molly, mushrooms, and ketamine. She also accused him of having extramarital sex, including an alleged partner swap with a client and his girlfriend.  Shortly after the allegations were circulated in the media, Sage Kelly took a leave of absence from Jefferies. The firm's CEO Richard Handler later issued a public memo showing his support for Sage Kelly and the Jefferies team. He also said that the team volunteered to take a drug test and that everyone passed. Here's a copy of Kelly's full statement:  After careful consideration and in the best interests of our children, Sage and I have reached an amicable custody arrangement that ensures loving homes for our children.  The presentation of facts in divorce proceedings is a function of subjective viewpoints. When a person's statements in a divorce proceeding become public, there is a danger that the publication of those statements can create misimpressions that, regrettably can cause unintended harm to innocent individuals.  A substantial portion of what has been written in the press and other media over the past few weeks is inaccurate, untrue, or hyperbolic, and I apologize to those who have been affected thereby — including those at Jefferies and those associated with Jefferies.  Sage is an individual of high integrity. He is a great father who deeply loves our children. While it is unfortunate when a marriage ends, Sage and I are fortunate that our family is moving forward, with our children as the centerpiece. We are both fully committed to co-parenting our children.  FREE AppDownload
Fotos Gov/Ba / FlickrThe yen is going nuts again. On Tuesday, the yen was trading near 115.7 against the dollar after briefly ticking above 116 overnight. This is another seven-year low for the yen against the US dollar. The spike in the yen follows two pieces of news out of Japan. Overnight, a report from Reuters, citing a government official close to Japanese Prime Minster Shinzo Abe's office, said Japan was likely to delay a planned increase in the nation's sales tax.  This news also came amid reports that Abe was preparing to call a snap election. Business Insider's Tomas Hirst has the full breakdown of what the snap election could mean for Abe. In late October, the Bank of Japan announced surprise stimulus measures, which sent the yen from a trading range of about 106 to 108 against the dollar to well above 110. Here's the five-minute chart showing Tuesday's rout in the yen, and a chart of the past two weeks of trading in the yen that shows the post-BoJ liftoff. FinViz FinViz And this action in the yen has sent Japan's Nikkei sharply higher, with Nikkei futures up more than 2% to well over 17,000. FinViz FREE AppDownload
The unemployment rate fell to 5.8% in October — the lowest rate since 2008. But according to the latest small business optimism survey from the National Federation of Independent Business, good labor in America is still in short supply. Forty-five percent of respondents to the latest survey said there were "few or no qualified applicants" for jobs, which is an increase from July's forty-two percent. This number has been continuously trending higher since 2009. Nineteen percent of firms reported actual compensation changes in the past three months, and although this is a slight drop from July and August's 21% and 22% respectively, this number is still much higher than pre-2009, and has been trending upwards since the financial crisis.  While sales are still one of the bigger concerns for small businesses, it's seen a major drop as the 'single most important problem.' The change towards labor quality becoming the most important problem for more employers suggests that economic concerns are shifting from weak demand to tight supply. And this points to higher wages for America's workers. NFIB FREE AppDownload
Less than a week after a global cadre of police brought the hammer down on the Dark Net and seized Silk Road 2.0, its alleged boss, 26-year-old Blake Benthall, and 27 hidden websites, the underworld recovery is underway. On Monday, hackers stole back their site from the FBI, and on Tuesday, Cloud Nine, the second-largest black market to be seized, was preparing to relaunch. Cloud Nine—home to just over 2,000 drugs and a handful of other products—had its server and database seized last week. However, the market’s owner, missy76, was never arrested or even identified. She never went silent and yesterday took to Reddit to make clear her intention to relaunch the site. Cloud Nine, hidden on the Tor anonymity network, accounted for 4.5 percent of the Dark Net economy about one month before the FBI seized it, and was known for selling cannabis, ecstasy, and prescription pills. Police also never seized the market’s bitcoins, so missy76 is still in possession of all of customer’s deposits. The main problem with relaunching, she said on Reddit, is that the last backup of Cloud Nine’s databases took place two weeks before the seizure, meaning two weeks of deposits are unaccounted for. That may end up being the full extent of the immediate losses for some of Cloud Nine’s customers. Other customers, however, may have much more to worry about. While Cloud Nine automatically encrypted information like shipping addresses as it moved between buyers and sellers, other data—like shipping tracking numbers—did not get encrypted and is now in the hands of police. The unintended side effect of sellers offering better customer service is that they may have inadvertently tied the noose for their loyal customers. On Reddit, missy76 said that she has plans to avoid a future seizure by police after Cloud Nine is brought back. “The plan being put into progress over the coming days/week is to have a replicated standby server with a second onion URL that will be released if the new server is seized at any point in the future,” she explained. “We will also secure the private key of the onion site better so they cannot take it to put up a seizure notice. Lastly we'd be building a detection script to check and alarm for when our servers are frozen for a period of time (e.g. disks are being snapshotted without our request) so we can recognize when/if servers need to be moved.” In the aftermath of the global police operation against anonymous black markets, the Dark Net is still scrambling to not only recover but also figure out what went wrong. Tor's developers have more questions than answers about how police succeeded, and several Dark Net market owners who were not involved in the police operation—most notably the owner of The Marketplace—have disappeared without explanation. One possibility is that they've quit while they're still out of handcuffs. Still, the Dark Net emerged from the law enforcement operation relatively intact. Two of the top three black markets remain untouched by police. If Cloud Nine recovers, four of the top five markets will be back online. Buyers and sellers are excited about peer-to-peer technology being applied to new, decentralized marketsmeant to resist censorship even further. Meanwhile, police around the Western world are loudly warning targeted Tor users that their anonymity is breakable and their days of comitting crime without reprecussions are numbered. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsJonesTrading's Dave Lutz has a roundup of what traders are chatting about right now. Good Morning!  US Futures are tracking higher, led by Tech and Biotech – but liquidity is expected to be light as Credit markets in US and Europe are closed today to honor Veteran’s / Armistice Day commemorations.  That said, Equity markets are trading well in Europe, with EuroStoxx up 60bp and the DAX climbing 40bp in heavier-than average volume.    Financials are among your best performers, while globally commodity related industries remain under pressure – This was most evident in Asia, where Heavy falls in the biggest miners pushed Aussie lower as Citi slashes Ore targets to $60/ton average.   Shanghai retreated small from yesterday’s gap higher on the HK trading link date being set, while Japan jumped 2% to 7Y highs on multiple tailwinds (Falling Yen, unexpectedly large current account surplus, chatter early elections to be called, and reports Abe is delaying the next tax hike).    While Credit markets are closed, FX is trading – and the DXY is continuing yesterday’s strength, The Greenback broke through ¥116 against the yen for the first time since October 2007.   The Ruble under big pressure again, as fears of cease fire coming to an end in Ukraine intensify.   Metals are all under pressure, led by a 80bp drop in Copper, dragging Gold down again.  We are seeing continued weakness in the Energy complex, with Brent touching 4Y lows and WTI trying to recover from being off over 1% overnight – while Natty Gas continues to retreat from the week long squeeze we saw on the shorts.   The Grains and Beans are continuing yesterday’s pressure, despite the crop forecast being unexpectedly scaled back.  It’s a Holiday, so we have no scheduled catalysts today save ICSC-Goldman Sachs Chain Store Sales Index at 7:45, and Johnson Redbook Retail Sales Index at 8:55 - U.S. Bond Markets are closed for Veterans Day / EU Bond Markets closed for Armistice Day  Some trades I’ll be watching today include Retailers, as “Singles Day” is a “Sell the News” for BABA – despite Alibaba selling more than 36.2 billion yuan ($5.9 billion) of merchandise within 14 hours of the promotion kicking off, eclipsing last year’s record / Keep an eye on REITS - REITS outperformed the pop in Yields yesterday, and Overseas REITS are having a strong day, climbing 2.2% in Japan and 1.5% in London / Watch the Builders, as the #2 holding of the ITB reports (DHI, 10% weight) – ITB failed July peaks y’day – and of course keep an eye on the impact of the break lower in commodities, impacting Energy (XOP, XLE and OIH) – Metals (GDX/GDXJ) – and Grains/Beans (CROP, MOO, CORN) FREE AppDownload
Student debt looks exactly like mortgage debt before the housing crisis. But the fallout will be much different. Produced by Sara Silverstein and Alex Kuzoian Follow BI Video: On Twitter
REUTERS/Kim Kyung-HoonAsia Pacific Economic Cooperation leaders pose for a "family photo." Front row, left to right: US President Barack Obama, China's President Xi Jinping, and Russia's President Vladimir Putin.Good morning! Here's what you need to know: US-China Trade Breakthrough. "China and the United States have reached a breakthrough in talks on eliminating duties on information technology products, a deal that could pave the way for the first major tariff-cutting agreement at the World Trade Organisation in 17 years," Reuters' Michael Martina reported. "The breakthrough would allow the 'swift conclusion' on talks to expand the Information Technology Agreement (ITA) at the WTO in Geneva later this year, United States Trade Representative Michael Froman told reporters on Tuesday. It would reduce global tariffs on such products as medical equipment, GPS devices, video games consoles, and next-generation semiconductors." Alibaba Posts Record Sales On Singles Day. On the world's largest online shopping day of the year, China's Alibaba shattered last year's full-day sales of $5.75 billion, pulling in $5.8 billion by the afternoon.  Markets Are Passing Milestones. The US stock markets closed at a record high on Tuesday, and futures are pointing higher again. Dow futures are up 17 points, and S&amp;P futures are up 2 points. US bond markets are closed for Veterans Day. Oil Falls To A 4-Year Low. Crude prices continue to tumble amid elevated supply and deteriorating demand. Brent crude slumped to as low as $81.23 per barrel, the lowest level since October 2010. WTI crude got as low as $76.42. Will Japan's Abe Dissolve Parliament? "Japanese lawmakers began preparations for a potential snap election, the clearest sign yet that Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is considering dissolving parliament before postponing a planned sales-tax increase," Bloomberg's Takashi Hirokawa reported. "Hiroyoshi Sasagawa, a ruling Liberal Democratic Party lawmaker, said in an interview today that preparations have begun, though only Abe can call a general election. Local LDP constituency offices are getting ready for a poll, according to three other people with knowledge of the matter." Japanese Yen Sinks To A 7-Year Low. "The yen depreciated 0.8 percent to 115.83 per dollar at 9:39 a.m. London time and touched 116.01, the weakest level since October 2007," Bloomberg's Lucy Meakin reported. "Japan’s currency slid 0.8 percent to 143.79 per euro. The 18-nation common currency was little changed at $1.2414." Juniper CEO Quits. "Juniper Networks Inc. Chief Executive Officer Shaygan Kheradpir stepped down after less than a year on the job, following a board review of his conduct related to a customer negotiation," Bloomberg's Dina Bass and Denni Hu reported. "The networking-gear maker said Kheradpir, 53, who became CEO in January, was resigning over the customer situation. Board members and Kheradpir have 'different perspectives regarding these matters,' the Sunnyvale, California-based company said in a statement yesterday. Juniper didn’t identify the customer." Citi Warns Iron Ore Prices Are Going Down. "We expect iron ore prices to fall into the $50s — We have downgraded our price forecasts … briefly dipping into the $50s — with annual averages of $65 in 2015 and 2016," Citi Research analysts wrote. Like oil, supply is high and demand is deteriorating for the commodity, which is down by about 40% this year. Prices are at about $75 per ton Tuesday. Mondelez Is Expanding. Mondelez International, the maker of Nabisco biscuits and Cadbury chocolate, plans to pay $370 million for an 80% stake in Kinh Do, a Vietnamese snack business. "Our significant investment in Kinh Do and Vietnam is a perfect fit for our growth strategy in Asia Pacific, strengthening our core snacking categories in a high-growth dynamic market," Mondelez executive Tim Cofer said in a statement.   Samsung Has Its Eyes On Vietnam. The electronics maker plans to invest $3 billion (£1.8 billion) to build a second smartphone plant in Vietnam's capital of Hanoi. "Vietnam is in a unique position," Lam Nguyen, Ho Chi Minh City-based country director at International Data Corp., told Bloomberg. "You have a motivated workforce and in terms of labor costs, they are cheaper than China, cheaper than Thailand.” FREE AppDownload
Kim Kyung-Hoon/ReutersUS President Barack Obama, left, with China's President Xi Jinping during the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation forum, at the International Convention Center at Yanqi Lake in Beijing on Tuesday.China and the United States have reached a breakthrough in talks on eliminating duties on information technology products, a deal that could pave the way for the first major tariff-cutting agreement at the World Trade Organization in 17 years. The breakthrough would allow the "swift conclusion" on talks to expand the Information Technology Agreement (ITA) at the WTO in Geneva later this year, United States Trade Representative Michael Froman told reporters on Tuesday. It would reduce global tariffs on such products as medical equipment, GPS devices, video game consoles, and next-generation semiconductors. "This is encouraging news for the US-China relationship," Froman said on the sidelines of meetings of the Asia-Pacific Economic Summit (APEC) in Beijing. "It shows how the US and China work together to both advance our bilateral economic agenda but also to support the multilateral trading system." The ITA, which went into effect in 1997, now covers more than $4 trillion in annual trade, according to the US government. Participants to ITA commit to eliminating tariffs on such items as computers and computer software, telecommunication equipment, and other advanced technology products. An expanded ITA would eliminate tariffs on about $1 trillion worth of global sales on IT products, Froman said. More than 200 tariff lines will be reduced to zero under the new agreement. US Chamber of Commerce Executive Vice President Myron Brilliant immediately welcomed the announcement. "With so many new products created since the ITA was concluded two decades ago, expanding the agreement’s coverage is imperative," Brilliant said in a statement. "The commercial significance of these negotiations is obvious." REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueUS President Barack Obama and Chinese President Xi Jinping arrive for the APEC Summit "family photo" in Beijing on Monday. Talks to update the WTO pact on technology trade broke down due in summer 2013 because of disagreements over the scope of coverage of what listed products would be covered by the agreement, Froman said. "Since that time, the United States and China have been working to close our differences," Froman said. The United States and other countries were hopeful that China would agree to an expanded ITA agreement, which requires signatories to eliminate duties on some IT products, during the APEC summit ending Tuesday. Washington has blamed China, the world's biggest exporter of IT products, for derailing the talks by asking for too many exemptions. "While we don’t take anything for granted, we’re hopeful that we'll be able to work quickly to bring ITA to a successful conclusion," Froman said. (Reporting by Michael Martina, Writing by David Stanway and Matthew Miller; Editing by Raju Gopalakrishnan) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersJack Ma, Executive Chairman of Alibaba Group, speaks at the WSJD Live conference in Laguna BeachAlibaba Group Holding Ltd's Alipay unit, part of the company financial services arm, "will definitely go public", Executive Chairman Jack Ma told China's official state broadcaster in an interview on Tuesday. "The main goal of listing isn't for more money, but to let more people share in and be part of it," Ma said in an interview with CCTV on the company's annual Singles' Day shopping festival. Ma not give a timeline for when the unit might list. He did not specify whether it would be Alipay that lists or its parent, Zhejiang Ant Small and Micro Financial Services Group. Alibaba has previously said it may take public its financial services arm, which is not a part of New York-listed Alibaba Group. (Reporting by Paul Carsten and Beijing Newsroom; Editing by Miral Fahmy) FREE AppDownload
Minutes before she was murdered at the luxury Hong Kong flat of British banker Rurik Jutting, an Indonesian woman he had brought home from a nightclub sent a message to a friend saying: "I want to get out of here". The body of Seneng Mujiasih, who also used the name Jesse Lorena, was found by police on the sitting room floor of Mr Jutting's 31st floor home at around 3.45am last Saturday, according to local reports. Ms Mujiasih, who was around 30, had wounds to her throat and buttocks and a knife reportedly lay next to her body. The badly disfigured corpse of a second Indonesian woman, who 29-year-old Mr Jutting is also accused of killing, was subsequently discovered inside a suitcase on the balcony. She is thought to have died five days earlier, on October 27, and has been named as Sumatra Ningsih, 25. Ms Mujiasih met Mr Jutting at a nightclub near his flat called the New Makati Pub &amp; Disco at sometime between 1.35am and 2.15am on the morning of November 1, according to two witnesses. Security footage obtained by the police shows the pair walking in the direction of Mr Jutting's flat, which is around five minutes away on foot, soon after. What happened inside the British banker's home remains a mystery. But The Telegraph now understands that at around 3.25am that morning, Ms Mujiasih used her mobile phone to send a message to a friend - just 20 minutes before police arrived at the flat and found her dead following a call from Mr Jutting. "Something smells really bad – I want to get out of here," the message said, according to a source close to the victim who asked not to be named. The friend received no further messages from Ms Mujiasih. It is not clear what "smell" the victim was referring to or why exactly she wanted to leave the flat. However, following Mr Jutting's arrest, residents of the "J Residence" building where he lived complained of noticing a stench like a "dead animal" in the corridors. Residents later learned the smell came from the first victim's decomposing body. On Monday morning, Mr Jutting appeared for before a magistrate at Hong Kong's Eastern Magistrates' Court for the first time since he was charged with the two murders last Monday. Bina Chainrai, the principal magistrate, ordered two psychiatric evaluations of Mr Jutting and adjourned his case until November 24. The reports were needed to determine "the defendant's fitness to plead," she said. The 29-year-old University of Cambridge graduate looked bored but calm as he entered the court at just after 10am. He wore the same clothes as during a his previous court appearance: a baggy black T-shirt with the words "New York Champion" written on the front in white and silver lettering. He also clutched a black jumper in his hands. He was photographed grinning in a police van as it left the courtroom following his brief appearance. Until recently Mr Jutting was a high-paid employee of Bank of America Merrill Lynch in Hong Kong where he had moved in July 2013. He was arrested before dawn on November 1 after police were called to his flat, which is located in the Wan Chai district, just a few blocks from Hong Kong's notorious red light district. Inside they found the bodies of Ms Ningsih and Ms Mujiasih, who were both well-known faces at the area's bars and pubs. Mr Jutting was also a well-known figure in the area. On October 27, the day on which police believe the first murder took place, he was seen drinking a pint of beer at one pub and looking "very unhappy". Shortly before meeting his second alleged victim at the New Makati Pub &amp; Disco, Mr Jutting approached another woman and invited her back to his flat. The woman, an Indonesian nanny who asked not to be named, said she saw the banker acting strangely and declined his invitation to return home with him. Asked about the mental state of his client, Tim Parker, a barrister acting for Mr Jutting, told The Telegraph: "We are not going to be commenting." Mr Parker made no application for bail but requested copies of police interviews with the defendant. He told the court Mr Jutting had not "yet" agreed to take part in a reconstruction of the alleged crimes. FREE AppDownload
FORTESCUE/ REUTERS/David GrayCiti has downgraded its iron ore price guidance and now expects the commodity will drop into the $50 a tonne range next year, albeit briefly. In a research note released today the bank says it now expects prices to average $74 a tonne in Q1, moving down to an average of $60 by the September quarter next year. “We expect iron ore prices to fall into the $50s – We have downgraded our price forecasts…briefly dipping into the $50s – with annual averages of $65 in 2015 and 2016,” Citi said today. Here’s the bank’s iron ore price forecast which shows a significant drop from previous expectations. Macroeconomics analysis today indicated a $51 billion hole in the federal government’s budget, saying there are so many problems that red ink is all Australia should expect for the next ten years. Treasurer Joe Hockey today blamed falling iron ore prices for increasing pressure on the government’s bottom line. “Iron ore prices are between 30-40 per cent less than they were when we first made our forecasts in the budget, that has a direct impact on our budget bottom line, there is no doubt about that,” Hockey said on Adelaide Radio station 5AA today. Iron ore’s selloff this year from over $100 a tonne to its current $75 a tonne for December delivery, has been largely driven by weak demand and deleveraging, Citi commodity strategist Ivan Szpakowski said in a research note today. “While the first half of the year saw prices driven lower as supply increased, Q3’s selloff was driven by deteriorating demand and deleveraging of traders and Chinese mills, with prices now selling off on APEC and pollution driven steel production curtailments. We expect renewed supply growth to once again drive the market lower in 2015, combined with further demand weakness,” he said. “We underestimated the speed at which prices would fall in the second half.” He said a sustained iron ore price in the $60 range, which he sees much stronger cost support, could prompt significant supply cutbacks. Heading into 2015, Citi is expecting an additional 140 million tonnes to hit the market. Rio Tinto is expected to increase export production by 54 million tonnes year-on-year, while Vale is expected to boost production 30 million tonnes and BHP is forecast to add another 15 million tonnes. This is all happening at a time when Chinese domestic production and steel demand growth are predicted to fall which will put more pressure on prices. Australia holds the position as one of the lowest cost iron ore producers globally and recent falls in the Aussie dollar have taken some of the pressure off the country’s higher cost producers. However, Citi said if prices sit in the $60-$70 a tonne range for a sustained period companies like Atlas Iron, Arrium and Savage River could be among the Australian producers who cut production. This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Daniel MunozJohn Howard.Australian Prime Minister John Howard will join J.P. Morgan Chase &amp; Co’s International Council to advise on business trends. Howard served as Australia’s Prime Minister for almost 12 years, between March 1996 and December 2007, making him the nation’s second longest serving Prime Minister. Jamie Dimon, chairman and chief executive of JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co. said, “We are extremely pleased to welcome a leader of Mr Howard’s calibre to the J.P. Morgan International Council. His unparallelled insight into Australia’s economic and business landscape, as well as his deep knowledge and extensive experience within the domestic and international political arena will be of immense value.” Howard said he was looking forward to “participating in thought leading dialogue around Australia’s business and economic agenda”. The advisory group is currently chaired by another former head of state, former British PM Tony Blair. The International Council was founded in 1965 to help the firm better understand key global trends and provide insight to help build its international business. This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
The ecommerce giant said that amount was more than a third of the $5.8 billion full-day sales recorded on the same day last year. Alibaba has been pushing Nov. 11 as Singles Day — so named for the number of ones in the date — since 2009 as it looks to tap an expanding army of internet shoppers in China, which has the world's biggest online population. Singles Day already surpassed major shopping festivals in the US in terms of transaction value last year, toppling the combined online sales of $3.7 billion recorded on Thanksgiving Day, Black Friday, and Cyber Monday, according to an estimate by the internet analytics firm comScore. The day was originally marketed as an "anti-Valentine's Day" in China featuring hefty discounts to lure the country's singletons and price-sensitive buyers.  It has been expanded globally this year to include overseas merchants and customers. Within the first one hour, 12 seconds, more than 12.23 billion yuan ($2 billion) of deals were settled on both domestic and international retail marketplaces, Alibaba said in a statement, adding that 45.7 percent of the transactions were made via mobile devices. Headquartered in the eastern city of Hangzhou, Alibaba debuted its shares in New York two months ago with a record-breaking $25 billion initial public offering. The giant operates China's most popular online shopping platform, Taobao, which is estimated to hold more than 90 percent of the online market for consumer-to-consumer transactions. The company does not sell products directly but acts as an electronic middleman. It also owns other marketplaces, including the business-to-consumer platform Tmall. More than 27,000 brands and merchants are participating in this year's Singles Day, while consumers in more than 220 countries and regions will be able to join the 24-hour spending spree, the statement said. Some 500 million packages are expected to be shipped during this year's festival, up 50 percent from a year earlier, the state postal service told state media last month. But some internet users were less impressed, accusing some merchants of fooling consumers by raising prices beforehand. "I don't know why people are so excited about the 'Double 11' (November 11). It's meaningless as they all hike prices before offering a discount," one wrote on China's Twitter-like blogging service Sina Weibo. Alibaba said last week its third-quarter net profit jumped 15 percent year-on-year to $1.1 billion, its first earnings report since successfully completing the world's biggest stock offering in September. Revenue soared by 53.7 percent from the same quarter last year to $2.7 billion, it said.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersAn all new Ford 2015 F-150 pick-up truck is displayed during a news conference at the Rouge Plant in DearbornDETROIT (Reuters) - Ford Motor Co on Tuesday is scheduled to begin production of its redesigned, aluminum-intensive F-150 full-size pickup truck, a key profit generator for the No. 2 U.S. automaker that will go on sale next month. The F-150, the best-selling vehicle in the U.S. market for 32 straight years, has contributed the lion's share of Ford's global pretax profit so analysts and investors are watching the launch of the new model closely. The 2015 F-150 will be initially produced at Ford's assembly plant in Dearborn, Michigan. It will go on sale in December in North America, where the bulk of the demand is, and head to other markets like the Middle East in early 2015. Ford executives have repeatedly stressed the launch is on target. The company said last month it would add 850 hourly jobs at its Dearborn facilities to support the launch. Production of the 2015 truck will also begin at Ford's Claycomo, Missouri, plant in the first quarter. The two plants will have the combined capacity to make more than 700,000 trucks annually. Ford is in the midst of launching 23 new or redesigned vehicles, including the new F-150. Last month, it posted a lower third-quarter profit and revenue fell because of costs for the F-150 launch. The aluminum alloy body on the new trucks makes them up to 700 pounds lighter, which will allow for greater fuel efficiency, but Ford has yet to announce fuel economy ratings. (Reporting by Ben Klayman in Detroit; Editing by Richard Chang) FREE AppDownload
