AP ImagesBloomberg's Jim Snyder, Mark Drajem and Jonathan Allen report that the State Department is set to conclude that approving the Keystone XL pipeline would have minimal impact on carbon emissions, largely reiterating the agency's initial finds.  Citing anonymous sources, the trio report State will say that carbon emissions aren't likely to be greatly affected by a decision because the Alberta oil sands, whose crude the pipeline would be transporting, are going to be developed with or without Keystone.  The Supplemental Environmental Impact Statement could be released as soon as tomorrow, they write.  Once it's published, President Obama will then have to determine whether approving the project is in the national interest.  There is no formal deadlines for that decision. Click here to read the full report on Bloomberg.com » FREE AppDownload
Japan industrial production climbed 1.1% in December, narrowly missing expectations for 1.3%. It was a jump up from the 0.1% decline experienced in November. The Nikkei fell on the news but remains in positive territory at 0.14% on the day. The dollar gained 0.1% on the Yen. Elsewhere in Asia and Pacific markets, Australia's S&amp;P/ASX200 has spent most of Friday  in negative territory and is now off 0.05%. Here's the chart for the Nikkei: Google Finance FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Heinz-Peter Bader Earlier today we told you that many had their eyes on the EIA's natural gas inventories report.  Well, at 230 billion cubic feet, the draw came in a bit short of expectations for 239 bcf. But it was enough to cause natgas futures to experience their greatest single-day percentage decline since April 29, 2010, and the largest dollar drop since Nov. 11, 2008, according to WSJ's Brett Philbin.   The March NYMEX contract ended the day at  $5.011, a decline of $0.454 cents, or 8.3%. But Philbin reports that some analysts believe the plunge was temporary, and that there's plenty more unusually freezing winter left. "To me, the high prices aren't over yet," Anthony Grisanti, president of GRZ Energy Inc., a N.Y. trading and execution firm, told him.  About 50% of American households use natural gas to heat their homes. FREE AppDownload
Libya's sovereign wealth fund is suing banking giant Goldman Sachs for "deliberately exploiting" its position to make $350 million profit on $1 billion worth of failed derivative trades, London's High Court announced Thursday. The Libyan Investment Authority (LIA), which was set up in 2006 to handle the country's oil revenues, accuses the investment bank of gaining the "trust and confidence" of its inexperienced managers, before advising them to enter into "inadequately documented" derivative trades into companies including Citigroup, EdF, Santander and ENI. The nine deals, totalling $1 billion, were entered into in early 2008 but turned sour during the financial crisis, according to details made available by the High Court on Thursday. The trades "lost substantially all of their value" during the crisis and expired worthless in 2011, the fund alleges. Despite the losses, the fund claims that the bank still walked away with profits of $350 million (£212 million, 257 million euros). A spokeswoman for the bank called the claims "without merit" and said they would "defend them vigorously." The fund claims that senior bankers -- including Driss Ben-Brahim and Youssef Kabbaj -- tried to influence LIA staff with small gifts and a trip to Monaco. Kabbaj, chief of Goldman's Libyan operations, and Ben-Brahim, the bank's head of trading for emerging markets, "reassured the LIA they were one of Goldman's key strategic clients," according to the fund's suit, which was filed last week. "Goldman unconscionably took advantage of the LIA's weakness... and encouraged the LIA to enter into the disputed trades... in order that Goldman might earn... substantial profit margins," it continued. Managers of the $60 billion fund were apparently confused about what they were investing in due to their "extremely limited in-house financial expertise", and were exploited by "Goldman's considerable financial experience," added the submission. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved. FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Reed SaxonAmazon CEO Jeff Bezos.Amazon earnings are out! Here's the score: Revenue: $25.59 billion vs. $26.06 billion (Wall Street estimate) EPS: $0.51 vs. $0.66 (Wall Street estimate) Profit: $239 million The stock is down after hours as much as 10.9% after the miss on EPS. However, sales are very impressive, up 20% from the year-ago quarter. It was Amazon's best-ever holiday quarter. Amazon also said it is considering raising the price of Amazon Prime by $20 to $60. Amazon Prime gives customers unlimited free two-day shipping on select items plus access to its streaming video service Amazon Instant Video. Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through hispersonal investment company Bezos Expeditions. FREE AppDownload
New Yorkers have come to expect a complete and total over-the-top show from Strategic Group — the nightlife group that operates the PH-D at Dream Downtown, Marquee, Avenue, and LAVO. Super Bowl 2014 will be no different. How could it be? It's on Strategic's turf. Every one of their properties has a lineup of celebrity-hosted or DJ'd parties, culminating in a Super Bowl Party/Brunch blow-out at LAVO featuring live cheerleaders, DJing during commercials, and its own special Halftime Show. The details of the Show, of course, are a secret. Others details are out there, though. Strategic Group's Andrew Goldberg says Marquee, which will host DJs Beats By Dre and Tiesto on Friday and Saturday respectively, will debut new theatrical lighting on Friday. Think: LED lights everywhere — above your head, as well as on gloves, and on hats passed out to partiers when they enter the club. On Friday, Swizz Beats will be at Avenue (where Captain Wes Welker and other Broncos have already been spotted partying down), and on Saturday PH-D, the club on The Dream Downtown's roof, will host an epic Sunset Saturday Pre-Game Showdown. Of course, it all comes at a price (without tax and tip). A table at the LAVO Super Bowl viewing party starts at $5,000. A table at the Sunset Saturday at PH-D? Tables starts at $3,000. And for Tiesto you better at least have $8,000 to throw down if you want table (with bottles of vodka and champagne on ice, of course, that goes for every spot without saying). Goldberg says that he and his team have been planning these festivities for months. Super Bowl parties require a different touch than most others. The festivities are driven by sports fans that want a different experience than your run-of-the-mill party-goers. "If you can have people like Joe Montana in your building you'll do better than having someone like Johnny Depp," says Goldberg. Luckily, Strategic knows how to deliver that. Usually, for Strategic, the Super Bowl is more like this: Goldberg and his team parachute into a smaller city — like Detroit or Denver, for example — bringing their natural New York talent for (tasteful) excess with them. There, they blow it out for corporate sponsors like Maxim who've rented out massive spaces like theaters and old opera houses for their Super Bowl party. That's what Strategic did in 2006, Goldberg's favorite of parties past, when he and his team threw an epic blowout in Detroit that had celebrities of all stripes dancing in an old opera house's sky boxes all night long. "Everyone that goes out, went out," says Goldberg. "It's more of a guys guy event so you see athletes like Lawrence Taylor, and you shake his hand and you feel proud." Let the games begin. Below, check out the full lineup of Strategic events. THURSDAY: Afrojack at LAVO FRIDAY: DJ Vice at LAVO, Beats by Dre at Marquee, Swizz Beatz at Avenue SATURDAY: Tiesto at Marquee, Nick Cannon at LAVO, Sunset Saturday Pre-Game Showdown at PH-D at Dream Downtown SUNDAY: LAVO Super Bowl viewing party FREE AppDownload
Jacques Maurice via YouTubeFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Despite All The Love Go-Anywhere Funds Have Got, They Have Underperformed (Vanguard)  Existing flexible asset allocation funds, also known as go-anywhere funds increased from 61 in January 1998, to 110 in June 2013. Total assets for this group of funds climbed from $60 billion to $356 billion over the 15 year period. Thee strategy has gained favor as they allow fund managers to "seek returns from a wide range of sources, without style, regional, sector, market-cap, or other constraints, they have a broader opportunity set from which to select investments," write Anatoly Shtekhman, Kimberly Stockton, and Brian Wimmer for Vanguard. But just because go-anywhere funds offer greater opportunity doesn't mean these funds have done well. "The majority of go-anywhere funds underperformed from January 1, 1998, through June 30, 2013, relative not only to a 60% equity/40% bond passive allocation but to their stated benchmark and a traditional active balanced fund," the researchers found. "Likewise, even when compared against more appropriate benchmarks as determined by style analysis and factor regression, the majority of go-anywhere funds have produced an alpha of less than 0%, on average. Thus, it appears that even with a broader opportunity set, consistent alpha is rare." Advisors Need To Manage Clients' Perception Of Risk (Nerd's Eye View) One of the fundamental maxims cited by wealth advisors when it comes to wealth management and asset allocation is a client's risk tolerance. A recent presentation from FPA Experience Academic Track suggested that "there is a high correlation between client risk tolerance, and the price level of an S&amp;P 500 total return index," according to Michael Kitces at Nerd's Eye View. But Kitces thinks a client's true risk tolerance "appears to be remarkably stable and doesn't change much at all in the midst of volatile markets." "Instead, what appears to be unstable is not the client's tolerance for risk, but their perceptions of risk in the first place; in other words, clients may be loading up on stocks in bull markets not because they're more tolerant of risk, but because they don't think there is any risk in the first place. In turn, this suggests that ultimately, it may be time for financial planners to more widely adopt quality tools to measure risk tolerance, but simultaneously recognize that managing client (mis-)perceptions of risk is the real challenge that we face." 38% Of RIAs Think Stocks Will Move Up This Year (TD Ameritrade)  Independent registered investment advisors (RIAs) saw  revenues increase about 20% after the strong stock market run last year, according to the latest TD Ameritrade Institutional Advisor Index Survey. Over 2/3rds of those surveyed said they saw their client base increase 13% and that AUM averaged 20% growth.  Now 38% of RIAs think the stock market will continue moving up, while 46% think it will stay the same. 41% said they think bond prices will fall over the next three months. Stocks now account for 54% of client portfolios, and fixed-income accounts for 23%. This compares with 48% equities and 27% fixed-income allocation last year. Why It Seems Every Hedge Fund Wants To Go Activist On Companies These Days In One Chart (Business Insider) Activist hedge funds seems to be popping up everywhere these days. And it's not without reason. Data from eVestment shows that activist funds returned 19.07% in 2013 and 15.21% in 2012. Here's a look at how various hedge fund strategies performed the last two years. Image: Business Insider, Data: eVestment The Cold Weather Is Offering Up Some Short-Term Opportunities (Investment News)  The extreme cold weather that's swept the nation has sent the price of natural gas soaring. And this offers short-term volatility plays for investors, writes Carl O'Donnell at Investment News. Investors can do this through a range of exchange traded products (ETPs) that track short-term futures contracts. "We are looking at natural-gas prices by the end of 2014 to drop back down to around $3.59 per million BTU," Stewart Glickman, group head of energy and materials at S&amp;P Capital IQ told O'Donnell. FREE AppDownload
That's a beat on the top line but a miss on the bottom line. Again, Google got bigger than analysts believed it would, but this time it didn't deliver the profits they were hoping for. The stock is up nearly 4% in after-hours trading. Sales at the Motorola mobile phones unit actually declined (see below), so the fact that Google beat on revenue despite that indicates just how robust its core search and advertising business is. That lack of sales at Motorola doesn't say much about the Moto X, Google's flagship, self-made Android phone, launched to much fanfare in 2013. And that may go some way to explain why Google is suddenly keen to offloading the Motorola unit. It agreed to sell Motorola to Lenovo yesterday for $2.91 billion — taking a huge loss on the investment, which was priced at $12.5 billion in 2012. Click here for Google's full results. Some highlights: Click prices are yet another indicator that Google is bringing in more advertisers who are paying slightly less for each ad, but the total number of dollars gathered has gone up. Here is how the revenues look in a chart: Google Highlights from the conference call with Wall Street investors: (Comment: This call is very dry. There is a lot of discussion on the nitty gritty pieces of the business, but no specific numbers, facts or metrics you can hang your hat on. Back when Page did the calls, it felt like there were more big-vision statements to get excited about. CFO Patrick Pichette and Nikesh Arora, chief business officer, seem determined to say nothing specific, but to take a lot of time to say it. But that's just me!) CFO Patrick Pichette and Nikesh Arora, chief business officer, are leading the call. CEO Larry Page said he would stop doing calls last quarter, as his voice was very weak. Founder Sergey Brin isn't on the call either. Patrick Pichette begins with the numbers. The Motorola-Lenovo sale will be good news for the Android ecosystem. ... operating loss for Motorola business was $384 million.Nikesh Arora svp/chief business officer is talking ... Marketing: Google ads were three of the top 10 most-viewed  on YouTube last year. Highlights from the Q&amp;A section: Nest: Arora says,"Our goal is to help them scale and bringing the resources of Google to ... reach broader audiences and scale internationally." YouTube: Arora: Nielsen measurement deal helps with credibility because an independent third party is reassuring advertisers that the metrics and audience are real. Otherwise its just media-owner Google endorsing its own media, which it is also measuring. App installs and the future of cookies: Arora: we have always had solutions for app install advertisers. ... you'll hear more from us in the future ... (The context here is that Facebook has a roaring business in app install ads but the perception of Google's version is more muted.) Cookies: Arora: our teams are working on this, there are some early concepts but it's too early to talk about what those precise solutions are going to be. Google Wallet: Arora: We're constantly trying to reduce the friction from doing a search to actually buying something. ... Larry oversees the team ... PLAs: Arora: we are seeing adoption, we've added 8 more countries this Q ... adding shoppers and retailers ... Motorola: Arora: We believe this is a great transaction where everybody wins. ... M has really strengthened our Android ecosystem. ... a real win-win for everybody.... all in all quite a great story. Maps and Waze: Arora: We are clearly experimenting with new ad formats on local maps. ... Location is a great filter. Brand advertising on YouTube: Nielsen OCR allows us to get "table stakes" for basic entry level metrics for the space ... promises more specific metrics for brand image advertising in the future, as opposed to direct-response ROI. You have more than $15 billion in cash. What are you going to do with it? (It's actually nearly $19 billion.) Pichette: the cash position is a strategic asset, both offensive and defensive .. it is reviewed regularly ... so we have a real strategy ... but we have nothing else to announce. ... we do take this issue seriously. ... at the board level. What are you doing with Android fragmentation (this is a reference to the fact that few Android phone users have the current version of Android, and many users are using one of a bunch of previous versions — which makes developing apps for Android tricky.) Arora: We have always had clear objectives to support all our partners ... there is a number of steps taken to make sure this is in fact fragmentation (?) we've done a lot of progress on this in the last 18 months and there's a lot more to come. Here's what analysts were expecting: The big news prior to the call was Google's decision to sell its Motorola mobile phones unit to Lenovo for $2.9 billion. Google only acquired the company in 2012, when it paid $12.5 billion. It was, according to some, "one of the worst investments in Google's history." One question might be: Will there be a big writedown on the income statement because of the sale? No!, is the answer, based on the income statement. Investors will be looking for guidance on that in the months to come. Regardless, GOOG has had a great run in the last year, going from $755 to over $1,100 per share. Disclosure: The author sold his Google stock a few days before the call. FREE AppDownload
Emerging markets have been in the news a lot this week. Volatility in EM seems to have finally spilled over into developed markets around the world, like the U.S. stock market — a dynamic the chart below from the Goldman Sachs equity strategy team captures perfectly. The correlation between EM and and U.S. equities plunged in 2013 as portfolio outflows from emerging markets caused those stocks to fall, even as U.S. equities marched higher. However, in 2014, this correlation has been coming back a bit as U.S. equities have had trouble finding solid footing in the new year. Hence, the question: how much longer can this correlation remain at historically low levels? Massive inflows into EM in recent years finally started to reverse in 2013, but there may still be a long way to go as the Fed continues winding down its quantitative easing program. If the past week is any indication, it may become increasingly harder for U.S. stocks to march to the beat of their own drum as the fallout in EM intensifies. FactSet, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research FREE AppDownload
This beat expectations for earnings of $2.52 per share, on revenue of $826.3 million. The stock is up 11.3% after hours to $550. Comp store sales were up 9.3%, beating expectations for 6.7%. Full year revenue was up 17.7% from a year ago to $3.21 billion and comp restaurant sales were up 5.6%. Chipotle opened 185 new restaurants in 2013. For 2014, Chipotle expects low to mid single digit comparable restaurant sales ex-menu price increases. Here's the full press release » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brian Snyder Hasty Pudding Theatricals' 2014 Woman of the Year actress Helen Mirren (C) gets a kiss from Hasty Pudding Theatricals' President Tony Oblen (L) and Ethan Hardy, Harvard University students dressed in drag, during a parade through Harvard Square in Cambridge, Massachusetts January 30, 2014. Stocks climbed as a shaky week in markets continued. Here's the scoreboard:  S&amp;P500: 1,794.15, +19.95, +1.12%Dow: 15,847.51, +108.72, +0.69%NASDAQ: 4,123.12 +71.69, +1.77% And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
Jim Edwards / BIJCPenney shares are plunging -- they have fallen more than 8% today.  JCPenney is still recovering from the missteps of former CEO Ron Johnson, and the company announced earlier this month that it would close 33 underperforming stores.  The company's margins have been hurt by aggressively marking down merchandise, Brian Sozzi, chief equities strategist at Belus Capital, said in a recent email to clients.  The clearance strategy is an attempt to win back the customers JCPenney lost during Johnson's tenure.  The New York Post recently reported that the retailer was hiking prices in order to make discounts appear bigger. We'll update when we know more about what's causing the current decline in price.  FREE AppDownload
In August, the Department of Justice sued to block the $11 billion merger of American Airlines and US Airways into the world's largest airline, arguing the loss of competition in the industry would hurt consumers. In November, it relented and let the deal go ahead, on the condition that the airlines give up key landing and takeoff spots at seven airports, many of them at Washington D.C.'s Reagan National. In parceling out those slots, the DOJ said it would favor low-cost airlines like Southwest and JetBlue. Those airlines' "competitive model" would be "kind of a magic potion" for driving down fares, Assistant Attorney General for the Antitrust Division Bill Baer told the media. Today, JetBlue and Southwest both announced they have acquired slots at Reagan National, allowing them to offer more flights into and out of the popular destination. JetBlue's 12 new slot pairs will allow it to add 12 daily flights. The carrier plans to add nonstop service between Washington, D.C. and cities it does not serve. All told, it will operate 30 daily flights out of Reagan. Southwest got 54 slots and will add 27 daily flights, for a total of 44 daily departures. The deals, made between the carriers and American Airlines, are subject to DOJ approval, but there's no reason to believe they won't go through. The terms are confidential. Giving space at key airports to low-cost carriers has lowered fares before, and it's not a stretch to say that since this is the largest divestiture of airport slots ever in an airline merger, those benefits will be multiplied. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Antony NjugunaA Kenyan farmer sends a text message to enquire about the latest maize prices from her maize fields in Thigio 35km (22 miles) from the capital Nairobi June 23, 2005. Mobile phones have become the most essential work item for Kenya's small businesses. When you talk about the future of payment technology these days, the conversation quite often now turns to Bitcoin. It was literally the first question asked this morning of Visa brass during the firm's earnings call (CEO Charlie Scharf said they're monitoring it but remain unfazed).  But despite its run-up in value and the coincidentally increasing number of retailers accepting it, Bitcoin is still not playing an enormous role in people's daily lives. The same cannot be said of the following 10 companies and products, which are already transforming how everyone from average Joes and Janes, to small businesses, to the impoverished, do their finances.  Check it out: 1)  Imagine a service that "provides you with a fast, convenient and secure way to make and receive payments," one which describes itself as "the best alternative to carrying cash, using checks or ATM cards, traveling to and from the bank, and waiting in long lines to process payments." Sounds like Bitcoin right? Nope. It's Nigerian mobile payment service Paga, which passed 1 million registered users in November. 2)  M-Pesa is the Kenyan version of Paga. More than 50% of the country's adult population use the service to remit money to relatives, to pay for shopping, utility bills, or taxis. The service now has branches in India, South Africa, Tanzania and even Afghanistan.   3)  Bitcoin evangelists like to say the cryptocurrency will be huge for the "global unbanked," or those without access to financial services. But InVenture is already doing something about that right now, by creating a standardized credit scoring system for the 2.7 billion people worldwide who fall into this category. Users text daily sales and costs to Inventure, which are compiled into a formula to come up with a score that is then passed on to lenders. 4)  You may have seen Venmo ads blasted all over the New York City subway (featuring Venmo employee "Lucas"). Venmo allows you to painlessly, unawkwardly send payments through your phone just by texting. 5)  Splitwise is often used in conjunction with Venmo. Let's say you just went on a week-long canoeing trip to beautiful Quetico National Park in Ontario with five of your closest friends. Each paddler paid for a different part of the trip at different times, so each owes someone else money. Splitwise lets you sort it all out. 6)  Cover allows you to prearrange your dinner bill if you're going with a big group, so you don't have to reenact the Congress of Vienna to figure it all out later. It's sort of like Splitwise, but for eating out. In fact you don't even have to wait for the check — the restaurant just plugs into Cover when you've stopped ordering.     7)  BI's Dylan Love recently described Simple, the startup looking to replace your bank, as "easy, as in iPhone easy," adding "it's changed the way I interact with my money and I'm recommending it to friends like mad." The company offers free ATM withdrawals, as well as free tools for checking your balance, depositing checks, tagging and categorizing your purchases. 8)  One can argue Ripple is the most ambitious firm here. The company wants to change how all forms of money and currency, including Bitcoin, are digitally transferred on the Internet, creating a new and cheaper payment "rail" that would replace how all bank transfers are currently executed.  9)  Stripe helps startups like Foursquare and App.net build user-friendly payment interfaces into their websites or mobile apps. Now they're expanding across Europe. 10)  Balanced, a Stripe competitor, also allows a single website that deals with lots of other clients to process payments. Some see Balanced as a less cumbersome version of Stripe, since every client has to sign up for it, whereas online the marketplace guy needs to sign up for Balanced. FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Kimberly WhiteFacebook is now 10 years old. Facebook's stock hit a new high today of $61 per share. At $61 a share, Facebook is worth $150 billion.  Facebook has likely reached the $150 billion mark faster than any company in history. (A couple of companies may have done this in the dotcom boom, but they weren't worth that much for long). Facebook's founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg owns about 500 million shares of Facebook stock. At $61 a share, Mark Zuckerberg's stake is worth $31 billion. Mark Zuckerberg, therefore, has personally made $31 billion in the past 10 years, an average of just north of $3 billion per year. (And that's not including the ~$1 billion or so that he has taken off the table and/or given away.) Wow! FREE AppDownload
Not to alarm you, but in the midst of all this emerging market turmoil — partly based on fears of an economic slow down in China — Claremont McKenna professor Minxzin Pei writes in Fortune that China's shadow banking sector experienced a big hiccup this week. It all has to do with the near explosion of one of China's notorious wealth management products — pools of allegedly low risk securities that return one average 2% more than bank deposits. The problem is that they are often not low risk, and can drive investors to take to the streets when products don't pay out as promised. This week, one WMP sold to wealthy investors called Credit Equals Gold No. 1 was on the brink of default when the WMP's issuer, China Credit Trust, refused to assume the product's debt. Luckily, a third party stepped in to cover the WMPs debt. Investors will get everything promised minus the 2/3rd of their last interest payment. The WMP had a face value of about $500 million, and was supposed to fund the purchase of coal mines in Shanxi province. It was created by Zhenfu Energy Group, a private firm that was borrowing the money to invest in coal mines. Zhenfu turned to the shadow banking sector after being rejected by the traditional banks. Through its WMP it managed to raise about $1.15 billion and promised investors 10% annual returns. The Industrial and Commercial Bank of China played a role as well (from Pei): In retrospect, the Zhenfu story is a familiar tale of reckless financial gambling by individuals who used massive leverage (in this case, 140 to 1) and received help from key players in the shadow banking and formal banking sectors -- Chinese banks and trust companies. Senior ICBC executives from the Shanxi branch, for instance, lobbied hard for CCT to issue Zhenfu's debt. CCT's chief risk officer allegedly overruled his colleagues, who warned about Zhenfu's ability to repay the debt. Pei argues that instead of having private parties come in and save WMPs from the brink whenever these blowups occur, the Chinese government should be trying to restructure this entire sector systematically. Instead, he laments, the government will order creditors to roll over debt and this problem will persist.   FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsTo end your day with a happy hypothetical, let’s say you’ve been following our advice on how to build a buffer account. It’s going so well that now you’ve got a little money you’d like to invest. “Great—I’m going to get started today!” you think. Then you Google “How do I get started investing?” and learn that you can choose from thousands and thousands of mutual funds, ETFs, stocks, bonds, brokerages, and asset classes. “Hmm, I’ll get started investing tomorrow. Today: Candy Crush.” I know how you feel. Last month I was in Japan, and my earbuds broke. So I went to a big electronics store, figuring they’d have a few to choose from. Did they ever. I spent over an hour trying out earbuds before buying a new pair of the same ones that broke. I can’t help you choose headphones, but whether you have $100, $1,000, or $10,000 to invest, I can help you get started. In investing, as in headphones, “good enough” is better than driving yourself crazy figuring out the perfect solution. Buy one share of a stock market Exchange-Traded Fund (ETF) and a good introductory book on investing such as "The Elements of Investing," by Malkiel and Ellis. Which ETF should you buy and where? Let me make it easy. Open an account with TD Ameritrade. Opt into the commission-free ETF program. Buy one share of the Vanguard Total World Stock ETF (VT) for about $59. Congratulations! You now own (a piece of) 5,351 different stocks from about 50 countries. Now, read the investing book and keep saving money. Why TD Ameritrade? They make it easy to get started with a low balance without zinging you with fees. Another option: Betterment.com has a extremely simple sign-up process and will let you invest the whole $100. They do charge higher fees than TD and require you to invest an additional $100/month minimum until you hit $10,000. Open an account at Vanguard (make it an IRA or Roth IRA if you’re eligible to contribute to one) and put $1,000 in the target-date fund of your choice. These funds are cheap and own a diversified mix of stocks and bonds. Go ahead and drop another $20 on that investing book (or get it from the library). You’ll learn that even with a low-cost, diversified portfolio, sometimes you’ll lose money. Sometimes a lot of money. That’s no reason to avoid investing. It’s a good reason to control what you can (keep costs low, diversify, and avoid active management), invest according to your risk tolerance (don’t own 100% stocks if you won’t be able to sleep at night), and stay calm when everyone else is panicking. The Vanguard target-date fund is still an excellent choice. In fact, it would still be an excellent choice if you had $1 million to invest. Wealthy folks have access to special investment opportunities that the rest of us don’t. Lucky for us, those special opportunities (such as hedge funds) are usually much worse than the boring mutual funds and ETFs we have to settle for. Another option: Wealthfront is a snazzy automated investment management site with a $5,000 minimum and no fees for the first $10,000. It’s easy to get started, and they offer some tax management features that Vanguard doesn’t. If you have a 401(k) at work, you’re probably better off investing there than in your own account. You might get an employer match, and once you set up payroll deduction, you’ll keep saving automatically without thinking about it. "The Elements of Investing" can help you choose good funds in your 401(k). As you accumulate more money in your investment accounts, the rules of good investing don’t change. They just get more important. There’s a big different between losing $100 and losing $10,000 (or $100,000, or more). Now, if anyone can explain to me how to prevent my headphones from breaking all the time, I’m all ears. (Groan.) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Maxim ShemetovEmerging market currencies have been in turmoil lately. And mostly attention has been paid to countries like Turkey and South Africa. But the dynamics affecting those countries are also affectng a much bigger economy: Russia, which is increasingly finding itself in a sticky spot. The ruble has fallen to a five-year low and we've seen one-year interest rates surge. Russia has been blighted by weak external demand, slower investment growth, and declining consumer growth.  And considering that Russia's economy is largely dependent on energy exports, weak external demand is unwelcome news. Russia is the second-largest producer of dry natural gas and the third-largest oil producer. And oil and gas revenues account for more than 50% of federal budget revenues as of 2012, according to the EIA. "A vibrant transformation of the global energy markets poses medium-term threats," writes Societe Generale's Evgeny Koshelev. And of course as a country reliant on natural resource exports there are some concerns that it could fall into the Dutch disease trap. Some argue that Russia already is in the throes of it. The term refers to economies driven by commodities exports seeing their currencies get overvalued. That in turn hurts its own manufacturing sector by making imports cheaper. Factor in that the energy sector and the corporate sector are dominated by state-run companies and the problem becomes a bit clearer.  "In Russia, the corporate sector is dominated by state-run companies. The efficiency and flexibility that the private sector tends to provide, is thus missing in Russia Inc," Morgan Stanley's Joachim Fels wrote in a note late last year. We've already seen emerging market currencies take a hit following a string of central bank tightening. The ruble recently hit a five-year low, but Russia's central bank is trying to limit intervention as it hopes to have a free-floating currency by 2015. The one thing Russia has going for it, unlike the Fragile Five economies, is that it has a current account surplus, so there are some who argue that ruble weakness could dissipate in coming weeks. But it isn't that simple. "At constant high oil prices, Russia’s current account surplus has fallen from 5% of GDP in 2011 to 1.6% in 2013, driven by a wide range of factors, including a shrinking trade surplus, surging services and income deficits and a rise in labour remittances," writes Morgan Stanley's Jacob Nell. "Also, reflecting the lack of investment and competitiveness of the economy, the proportion of non-commodity exports relative to GDP has fallen from around 15% 10 years ago to 8.3% in 3Q13, on a 4Q sum rolling basis. Although our economists see the pace of deterioration in the current account slowing with a weaker RUB in 2014, they still forecast a 1% of GDP contraction in the current account surplus in 2014 to 0.6% of GDP before slipping into a mild deficit in 2015." There is also some concern that the Fed taper could "trigger significant ruble devaluation and worsen business sentiment," writes Koshelev. Keep an eye on this story. It could get more interesting. FREE AppDownload
Steve Jennings/Getty ImagesFollowing strong earnings growth, Facebook is on a roll. Shares are up nearly 16%. Mobile ad revenues paved the way for the earnings beat. "Facebook is basically a mobile company right now — a majority of its revenues come from mobile, not from the desktop product," explained our Jim Edwards. "And the vast majority of its active users are mobile users." The company is seeing upgrades across Wall Street today. Bank of America has a $64 price target on Facebook. "With better-than-expected 4Q revenues and expense commentary about in-line to slightly above our expectations, we would expect 2014 estimates to see a meaningful increase," wrote BofA's Justin Post and Joyce Tran, who said investors should "maintain buy" on Facebook. Canaccord's Michael Graham increased his price target to $70 for the stock. "Facebook reported another strong quarter that was dominated by the continued transition to mobile, which brings fewer ads at higher prices. This trend should continue in 2014, along with the probable ramp of Instagram revenue and video ads,” he wrote. FREE AppDownload
Authorities have arrested 18 individuals in connection to a crime ring that offered "party packs" of high end prostitutes and cocaine in New York City, according to the New York Attorney General's office. “Drug trafficking and prostitution are a scourge on communities across our state,” Attorney General Schneiderman said. “My office will continue to work with our partners in law enforcement on multi-agency investigations like this one to take down networks of criminals who exploit women and poison our communities for profit.” The ring planned to market its services especially aggressively this weekend, as mostly male sports fans flood the city for the Super Bowl. Ten days before the game, regulars got a text message blast that read:“new sexy &amp; beautiful girls R in town waiting for u.” Authorities hope to gain more information about "party packs" planned during this weekend's game. The AG's office alleges that commonly, if a client ordered a party pack with a credit card, the ring would send in more prostitutes after the client was really high, charging the john for more and more prostitutes and drugs. This could result in charges of upwards of $10,000 a night. The ring made millions doing this, according to authorities, and laundered the money through several fronts, including a limosine service, a clothing wholesaler, a wig wholesaler, and a beauty supply wholesaler. FREE AppDownload
Super Bowl Squares is one of the most popular ways for Americans to bet on the Super Bowl. It's played on a 10 by 10 grid of squares, which people buy for a fixed price. Each square is assigned two numbers that aim to match the score of the Super Bowl. To get you ready, we crunched the numbers -- more than 14,000 games -- to see which numbers have the best odds of winning. Produced by Sara Silverstein and Matt Johnston.  Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Reuters/Keith BedfordI recently talked to a doctor who retired after a 30-year career. I asked him how much medicine had changed during the three decades he practiced. "Oh, tremendously," he said. He listed off a dozen examples. Deaths from heart disease and stroke are way down. Cancer survival rates are way up. We're better at diagnosing, treating, preventing, and curing disease than ever before. Consider this: In 1900, 1% of American women giving birth died in labor. Today, the five-year mortality rate for localized breast cancer is 1.2%. Being pregnant 100 years ago was almost as dangerous as having breast cancer is today. The problem, the doctor said, is that these advances happen slowly over time, so you probably don't hear about them. If cancer survival rates improve, say, 1% per year, any given year's progress looks low, but over three decades, extraordinary progress is made.  Compare health-care improvements with the stuff that gets talked about in the news -- NBC anchor Andrea Mitchell interrupted a former Congresswoman last week to announce Justin Bieber's arrest -- and you can understand why Americans aren't optimistic about the country's direction. We ignore the really important news because it happens slowly, but we obsess over trivial news because it happens all day long. Expanding on my belief that everything is amazing and nobody is happy, here are 50 facts that show we're actually living through the greatest period in world history.   1. U.S. life expectancy at birth was 39 years in 1800, 49 years in 1900, 68 years in 1950, and 79 years today. The average newborn today can expect to live an entire generation longer than his great-grandparents could. 2. A flu pandemic in 1918 infected 500 million people and killed as many as 100 million. In his book "The Great Influenza," John Barry describes the illness as if "someone were hammering a wedge into your skull just behind the eyes, and body aches so intense they felt like bones breaking." Today, you can go to Safeway and get a flu shot. It costs 15 bucks. You might feel a little poke. 3. In 1950, 23 people per 100,000 Americans died each year in traffic accidents, according to the Census Bureau. That fell to 11 per 100,000 by 2009. If the traffic mortality rate had not declined, 37,800 more Americans would have died last year than actually did. In the time it will take you to read this article, one American is alive who would have died in a car accident 60 years ago. 4. In 1949, Popular Mechanics magazine made the bold prediction that someday a computer could weigh less than 1 ton. I wrote this sentence on an iPad that weighs 0.73 pounds. 5. The average American now retires at age 62. One hundred years ago, the average American died at age 51. Enjoy your golden years -- your ancestors didn't get any of them. 6. In his 1770s book The Wealth of Nations, Adam Smith wrote: "It is not uncommon in the highlands of Scotland for a mother who has borne 20 children not to have 2 alive." Infant mortality in America has dropped from 58 per 1,000 births in 1933 to less than six per 1,000 births in 2010, according to the World Health Organization. There are about 11,000 births in America each day, so this improvement means more than 200,000 infants now survive each year who wouldn't have 80 years ago. That's like adding a city the size of Boise, Idaho, every year.  7. America averaged 20,919 murders per year in the 1990s, and 16,211 per year in the 2000s, according to the FBI. If the murder rate had not fallen, 47,000 more Americans would have been killed in the last decade than actually were. That's more than the population of Biloxi, Miss. 8. Despite a surge in airline travel, there were half as many fatal plane accidents in 2012 than there were in 1960, according to the Aviation Safety Network.  9. No one has died from a new nuclear weapon attack since 1945. If you went back to 1950 and asked the world's smartest political scientists, they would have told you the odds of seeing that happen would be close to 0%. You don't have to be very imaginative to think that the most important news story of the past 70 years is what didn't happen. Congratulations, world. 10. People worry that the U.S. economy will end up stagnant like Japan's. Next time you hear that, remember that unemployment in Japan hasn't been above 5.6% in the past 25 years, its government corruption ranking has consistently improved, incomes per capita adjusted for purchasing power have grown at a decent rate, and life expectancy has risen by nearly five years. I can think of worse scenarios. 11. Two percent of American homes had electricity in 1900. J.P Morgan (the man) was one of the first to install electricity in his home, and it required a private power plant on his property. Even by 1950, close to 30% of American homes didn't have electricity. It wasn't until the 1970s that virtually all homes were powered. Adjusted for wage growth, electricity cost more than 10 times as much in 1900 as it does today, according to professor Julian Simon. 12. According to the Federal Reserve, the number of lifetime years spent in leisure -- retirement plus time off during your working years -- rose from 11 years in 1870 to 35 years by 1990. Given the rise in life expectancy, it's probably close to 40 years today. Which is amazing: The average American spends nearly half his life in leisure. If you had told this to the average American 100 years ago, that person would have considered you wealthy beyond imagination. 13. We are having a national discussion about whether a $7.25-per-hour minimum wage is too low. But even adjusted for inflation, the minimum wage was less than $4 per hour as recently as the late 1940s. The top 1% have captured most of the wage growth over the past three decades, but nearly everyone has grown richer -- much richer -- during the past seven decades. 14. In 1952, 38,000 people contracted polio in America alone, according to the Centers for Disease Control. In 2012, there were fewer than 300 reported cases of polio in the entire world. 15. From 1920 to 1949, an average of 433,000 people died each year globally from "extreme weather events." That figure has plunged to 27,500 per year, according to Indur Goklany of the International Policy Network, largely thanks to "increases in societies' collective adaptive capacities." 16. Worldwide deaths from battle have plunged from 300 per 100,000 people during World War II, to the low teens during the 1970s, to less than 10 in the 1980s, to fewer than one in the 21st century, according to Harvard professor Steven Pinker. "War really is going out of style," he says. 17. Median household income adjusted for inflation was around $25,000 per year during the 1950s. It's nearly double that amount today. We have false nostalgia about the prosperity of the 1950s because our definition of what counts as "middle class" has been inflated -- see the 34% rise in the size of the median American home in just the past 25 years. If you dig into how the average "prosperous" American family lived in the 1950s, I think you'll find a standard of living we'd call "poverty" today. 18. Reported rape per 100,000 Americans dropped from 42.3 in 1991 to 27.5 in 2010, according to the FBI. Robbery has dropped from 272 per 100,000 in 1991 to 119 in 2010. There were nearly 4 million fewer property crimes in 2010 than there were in 1991, which is amazing when you consider the U.S. population grew by 60 million during that period. 19. According to the Census Bureau, only one in 10 American homes had air conditioning in 1960. That rose to 49% in 1973, and 89% today -- the 11% that don't are mostly in cold climates. Simple improvements like this have changed our lives in immeasurable ways. 20. Almost no homes had a refrigerator in 1900, according to Frederick Lewis Allan's The Big Change, let alone a car. Today they sell cars with refrigerators in them. 21. Adjusted for overall inflation, the cost of an average round-trip airline ticket fell 50% from 1978 to 2011, according to Airlines for America. 22. According to the Census Bureau, the average new home now has more bathrooms than occupants. 23. According to the Census Bureau, in 1900 there was one housing unit for every five Americans. Today, there's one for every three. In 1910 the average home had 1.13 occupants per room. By 1997 it was down to 0.42 occupants per room. 24. According to professor Julian Simon, the average American house or apartment is twice as large as the average house or apartment in Japan, and three times larger than the average home or apartment in Russia. 25. Relative to hourly wages, the cost of an average new car has fallen fourfold since 1915, according to professor Julian Simon. 26. Google Maps is free. If you think about this for a few moments, it's really astounding. It's probably the single most useful piece of software ever invented, and it's free for anyone to use. 27. High school graduation rates are at a 40-year high, according to Education Week.  28. The death rate from strokes has declined by 75% since the 1960s, according to the National Institutes of Health. Death from heart attacks has plunged, too: If the heart attack survival had had not declined since the 1960s, the number of Americans dying each year from heart disease would be more than 1 million higher than it currently is.  29. In 1900, African Americans had an illiteracy rate of nearly 45%, according to the Census Bureau. Today, it's statistically close to zero.  30. People talk about how expensive college is today, but a century ago fewer than one in 20 Americans ever stepped foot in a university. College wasn't an option at any price for some minorities because of segregation just six decades ago. 31. The average American work week has declined from 66 hours in 1850, to 51 hours in 1909, to 34.8 today, according to the Federal Reserve. Enjoy your weekend. 32. Incomes have grown so much faster than food prices that the average American household now spends less than half as much of its income on food as it did in the 1950s. Relative to wages, the price of food has declined more than 90% since the 19th century, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. 33. As of March 2013, there were 8.99 million millionaire households in the U.S., according to the Spectrum Group. Put them together and they would make the largest city in the country, and the 18th largest city in the world, just behind Tokyo. We talk a lot about wealth concentration in the United States, but it's not just the very top that has done well. 34. More than 40% of adults smoked in 1965, according to the Centers for Disease Control. By 2011, 19% did.  35. In 1900, 44% of all American jobs were in farming. Today, around 2% are. We've become so efficient at the basic need of feeding ourselves that nearly half the population can now work on other stuff. 36. One of the reasons Social Security and Medicare are underfunded is that the average American is living longer than ever before. I think this is literally the best problem to have. 37. In 1940, less than 5% of the adult population held a bachelor's degree or higher. By 2012, more than 30% did, according to the Census Bureau. 38. U.S. oil production in September was the highest it's been since 1989, and growth shows no sign of slowing. We produced 57% more oil in America in September 2013 than we did in September 2007. The International Energy Agency projects that America will be the world's largest oil producer as soon as 2015. 39. The average American car got 13 miles per gallon in 1975, and more than 26 miles per gallon in 2013, according to the Energy Protection Agency. This has an effect identical to cutting the cost of gasoline in half. 40. Annual inflation in the United States hasn't been above 10% since 1981 and has been below 5% in 77% of years over the past seven decades. When you consider all the hatred directed toward the Federal Reserve, this is astounding. 41. The percentage of Americans age 65 and older who live in poverty has dropped from nearly 30% in 1966 to less than 10% by 2010. For the elderly, the war on poverty has pretty much been won. 42. Adjusted for inflation, the average monthly Social Security benefit for retirees has increased from $378 in 1940 to $1,277 by 2010. What used to be a safety net is now a proper pension. 43. If you think Americans aren't prepared for retirement today, you should have seen what it was like a century ago. In 1900, 65% of men over age 65 were still in the labor force. By 2010, that figure was down to 22%. The entire concept of retirement is unique to the past few decades. Half a century ago, most Americans worked until they died. 44. From 1920 to 1980, an average of 395 people per 100,000 died from famine worldwide each decade. During the 2000s, that fell to three per 100,000, according to The Economist. 45. The cost of solar panels has declined by 75% since 2008, according to the Department of Energy. Last I checked, the sun is offerings its services for free.  46. As recently as 1950, nearly 40% of American homes didn't have a telephone. Today, there are 500 million Internet-connected devices in America, or enough for 5.7 per household. 47. According to AT&amp;T archives and the Dallas Fed, a three-minute phone call from New York to San Francisco cost $341 in 1915, and $12.66 in 1960, adjusted for inflation. Today, Republic Wireless offers unlimited talk, text, and data for $5 a month. 48. In 1990, the American auto industry produced 7.15 vehicles per auto employee. In 2010 it produced 11.2 vehicles per employee. Manufacturing efficiency has improved dramatically. 49. You need an annual income of $34,000 a year to be in the richest 1% of the world, according to World Bank economist Branko Milanovic's 2010 book The Haves and the Have-Nots. To be in the top half of the globe you need to earn just $1,225 a year. For the top 20%, it's $5,000 per year. Enter the top 10% with $12,000 a year. To be included in the top 0.1% requires an annual income of $70,000. America's poorest are some of the world's richest.  50. Only 4% of humans get to live in America. Odds are you're one of them. We've got it made. Be thankful. FREE AppDownload
Stocks are rallying following the release of a solid initial estimate of fourth-quarter U.S. GDP this morning, and appetite for risk appears to be making a momentary comeback. The S&amp;P 500 is trading 1.3% higher at 1796. Gold futures, meanwhile, are down 1.5%, trading near $1243 an ounce, and 10-year U.S. Treasury futures are down 0.3%, while the yield on the 10-year note is 2.72%, up 4 basis points from yesterday's close. The U.S. dollar is snapping back against both the euro and the yen and emerging-market currencies are gaining against the dollar in a sharp reversal of the moves we've seen in recent days. The charts below show the action in various markets this morning. Across the top from left to right are S&amp;P 500 futures, the dollar-yen exchange rate, and the euro-dollar exchange rate. Across the bottom are gold futures, 10-year Treasury futures, and the dollar-lira exchange rate. Thinkorswim FREE AppDownload
Demand for products with artificial sweeteners has waned in recent years.  The reason for the decline is that consumers are wary that unnatural sweeteners could be bad for them, according to a recent report by Citibank. Customers also vastly prefer the full flavor of real sugar and high fructose corn syrup.  The shift has companies like Pepsi and Coca-Cola racing to find natural sweeteners that are also low-calorie. The company that cracks the code is in for a big payout as consumers become more health-conscious.  Citibank's report includes charts showing market share for regular drinks vs. diet.  The verdict? Regular soda is way more popular.  Here's Coca-Cola, which has grown market share of Coke Zero. Demand for Diet Coke is steady, but the regular version still wins for popularity.   Citibank  Pepsi is in bigger trouble. Demand for all its diet versions is steadily declining.  Citibank  Dr. Pepper is the only brand that has significantly increased sales of its diet product.  Citibank  FREE AppDownload
Carl Icahn's on his soap box about Apple, Paul Singer's going after Juniper, and it seems like new activist hedge funds are popping up everywhere — some even helmed by industry veterans tweaking their strategy, like Jason Ader and Andrew Wallach. So if it seems like hedge funds are going after companies more aggressively these days, it's because the strategy has been working, according to data compiled by eVestment. Check out the chart below, comparing hedge fund returns by strategy in 2012-2013. Activist funds fared better than funds with other strategies, returning 19.07% and 15.21% in 2013 and 2012 respectively. In 2013 long/short strategies came in second, returning 16.12% and in 2012 distressed strategy funds got the number two spot returning 14.75%. Managed futures funds, as you can see, have been the worst performers over the last two years. You can check out the rest of the numbers in a table below the chart. Image: Business Insider, Data: eVestment Table: Business Insider, Data eVestment  
REUTERS/Carlo AllegriMorgan Stanley chief U.S. economist and former FOMC secretary Vincent Reinhart explains.Over the past few days, a bout of global risk aversion has intensified strains in emerging markets, and several big EM central banks (India, Turkey, and South Africa) have caught investors by surprise by hiking interest rates. One of the big questions market participants wanted answered heading into the release of the FOMC's latest decision on monetary policy on Wednesday afternoon was whether or not the Committee would acknowledge these strains, which have at times in the past few trading sessions been major drivers of price action in some of the world's biggest markets, and have contributed to souring investor sentiment. After all, the future isn't looking too sunny for emerging markets as long as the FOMC sticks to its loosely data-dependent plan to reduce bond buying at a constant rate at every meeting until it is no longer buying bonds later this year, and if the past week is any indication, that means the outlook for global risk appetite could become a little cloudy as well. The FOMC ended up pressing ahead, tapering the pace of monthly bond purchases it makes under its quantitative easing program by $10 billion to $65 billion. And in its statement, it did not say a word about emerging markets. Why not? There were two reasons, according to Morgan Stanley chief U.S. economist Vincent Reinhart, who served as the secretary and economist of the FOMC from 2001 to 2007. "First, the Federal Reserve is a domestic-centric institution," says Reinhart. "They didn't show much love for EM in May to September of last year's sell-off — it's not surprising that they didn't mention it this time around." But there is another reason, which you may not be familiar with if you haven't dug into old transcripts from FOMC meetings of the pre-crisis era: the policy statement is drafted two weeks in advance of the actual meeting. "The FOMC statement is very inertial," explains Reinhart. "It's tough for Committee members to incorporate late breaking news. So much of it is drafted in advance." That's not to say that the FOMC couldn't have included a mention of emerging markets in the statement if it really wanted to, and ultimately the statement is subject to the decision voted on at the meeting itself — but modifying the language to reflect a concern that may be on the rise but has no immediate bearing on policy action is not as straightforward as it might seem. "In my experience, which is not recent, a draft [of the statement] is seen by the chairman about two weeks in advance and circulated to the FOMC one week ahead," says Reinhart. "Having gotten negotiated agreement ahead of time, the temptation is not to do more than minor fiddling. This is evident in the published transcripts." A discussion of recent strains in emerging markets will, on the other hand, likely show up in the minutes from this meeting, which will be released by the Fed on February 19. FREE AppDownload
Facebook is having a huge day after its big Q4 earnings beat. The stock was up 20% pre-market, and is now trading up 16%. That got market folks thinking where exactly this ranked among big one-day moves upward. "Gobsmacked that Facebook is up almost 20% in pre-market," tweeted Paul Kedrosky. "Has a company at $100b+ market cap every moved this much?" While it's true Facebook doesn't rank among the big guns, it's interesting that that these major market-cap moves happened during the dotcom boom. Steven Perlberg / Business Insider via Guan Yang Correction: This chart originally said Apple's move was on 4/25/2000. It happened in 2012.
REUTERS/ Christian HartmannPresident Obama will use his executive authority to create a new type of retirement savings account, the “MyRA.” “I will direct the Treasury to create a new way for working Americans to start their own retirement savings: MyRA,” Obama said in his 2014 State of the Union address. “It’s a new savings bond that encourages folks to build a nest egg. MyRA guarantees a decent return with no risk of losing what you put in.” Here’s a look at how the MyRA will work: Voluntary contributions. Contributions will be made via payroll deduction. The initial investment needs to be at least $25, but ongoing contributions can be as small as $5. Participants can save up to $15,000 or for a maximum of 30 years in this “starter” retirement account before they will need to transfer their balance to a private sector Roth IRA. Employers will not administer or contribute to these retirement accounts. Portability. Savers can keep the same account when they change employers and contribute to the account from multiple jobs. They can also roll the balance into a private sector retirement account at any time. Roth tax treatment. The MyRA is a Roth account, which means participants contribute after-tax dollars. Withdrawals in retirement, including the earnings, will then be tax free. Early distributions of the contributions, but not the earnings, can also be withdrawn tax free at any time. “The primary purpose is retirement saving, but if they have some need they can pull that money out, and if it’s just the principal amount there is no penalty,” according to a senior administration official. Principal protection. Unlike with Roth IRAs, MyRA participants will be protected from market losses and guaranteed that the account will never go down in value. The investment in the account will be backed by the U.S. government. Variable returns. MyRA savers will earn interest at the same variable interest rate as federal employees in the Thrift Savings Plan’s Government Securities Investment Fund. Income restrictions. The MyRA will be available to households earning up to $191,000 a year. The Treasury says the product will be targeted to Americans who currently lack access to workplace retirement accounts. “Workers must have a place to invest their hard-earned savings that provides an appropriate balance of risk and return, and many private sector providers do not offer retirement savings options tailored to smaller balance savers,” according to a statement from the White House. “Our retirement system should help these potential savers and encourage them to begin building their retirement security.” The Treasury is still selecting a financial firm to administer the program. The pilot MyRA is expected to be available though some employers by the end of 2014. This article originally appeared at U.S. News & World Report.  Copyright 2014. Follow U.S. News & World Report on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Politico's Ben White has a story this morning on the growing fear and alienation felt by America's richest citizens. Between the election of progressive New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio, the vilification of Tom Perkins after he said criticism of the 1% was similar to Nazi persecution of Jews, and a mounting sentiment to finally correct income inequality, some rich people are all strung out. And telling their shrinks about it. From Politico: People who counsel the wealthy for a living say there is both an unease with growing income disparity and a fear of even greater persecution. “I think that with Occupy Wall Street there was a sense of the heat getting turned up and a feeling of vilification and potential danger,” said Jamie Traeger-Muney, a psychologist whose Wealth Legacy Group focuses on counseling the affluent. “There is a worry among our clients that they are being judged and people are making assumptions about who they are based on their wealth.” White goes on to describe the "collective freakout" coming from the 1%. Read the whole report at Politico » FREE AppDownload
Business Insider VideoDylan Grice is leaving Edelweiss Holdings to join Aeris Capital, a private investment office, in Zurich. Aeris Capital manages assets for a European family and its charity. Grice told Business Insider that he will be setting up his own capital preservation/value fund within Aeris. He will also "help manage their broader portfolio of liquid assets." For those that missed out on his writing in the past year, Grice promises to be "writing regularly." Grice joined Edelweiss as Research Director early last year. Before Edelweiss, Grice was a strategist at Societe Generale. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Richard ClementPending home sales fell a whopping 8.7% month-over-month in December. This missed expectations for a modest 0.3% decline. Meanwhile, they were down 6.1% on the year, worse than expectations for a 0.3% fall. November's numbers were also revised down to show a 0.3% MoM fall, and a 4.4% YoY fall. This compares with an initial estimate of a 0.2% MoM rise, and a 4% YoY fall. “Unusually disruptive weather across large stretches of the country in December forced people indoors and prevented some buyers from looking at homes or making offers,” Lawrence Yun, NAR chief economist said in a press release.   "Home prices rising faster than income is also giving pause to some potential buyers, while at the same time a lack of inventory means insufficient choice. Although it could take several months for us to get a clearer read on market momentum, job growth and pent-up demand are positive factors.” Here's a look at the regional breakdown: The index is considered to be a leading indicator for future existing home sales. The Commerce Department expects that 80% of signings will become existing home sales transactions within two months. Here's a look at the trajectory of pending home sales: The National Association of Realtors FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg via Nicholas JohnstonIn Tuesday night's State of the Union address, President Obama announced a new retirement savings program called MyRA. What is MyRA? Our Josh Barro explains here. But here's what MyRA is not: Myriad Entertainment &amp; Resorts, an over-the-counter penny stock that delisted from exchanges in late 2009 after it stopped filing 10Qs with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Of course, this didn't stop shares of MYRA from surging 900% after Obama's speech. It's now trading at the low low price of $0.0009, up from $0.0001 (via Nicholas Johnston).  We've seen this movie before. After Google bought high-tech termostat company Nest, investors drove Nestor Inc —an automated traffic enforcement system company in receivership since 2009 — up 1900%. There there was Tweeter Home Entertainment (TWTRQ), which careened up 1500% after Twitter (TWTR) went public. FREE AppDownload
WikimediaNEW YORK (Reuters) - Deutsche Bank has suspended the head of its emerging markets foreign exchange trading desk in New York in connection with ongoing investigations into the alleged manipulation of the global currency market, a source familiar with the matter said. Diego Moraiz, who has been with the bank since 2004 and has specialized in trading the Mexican peso, was told by the bank on December 18 that he was suspended, the source said. Moraiz's suspension came after an external consulting firm hired by Deutsche Bank examined emails and communications in chatrooms going back seven years, the source said. The specific reason for the suspension is unclear. Reuters couldn't determine which consulting firm had been retained. The source did not know whether Moraiz was still being paid or when the investigation will be completed. Moraiz, who is from Argentina, remains in the United States, the source said. The source spoke on condition of anonymity because the investigation is an internal bank matter and is continuing. Moraiz did not respond to several phone calls from Reuters. Deutsche Bank spokesman Sebastian Howell said the bank does not comment on individual staff. Global financial regulators are looking into allegations that traders at some of the world's biggest banks, including Deutsche Bank, colluded to manipulate benchmark foreign-exchange rates used to set the value of trillions of dollars of investments, or the so-called WM/Reuters "fix". Previously, a separate source had told Reuters that several Deutsche Bank currency traders had been suspended at the bank's New York office. The investigation by the consulting firm is ongoing, the source said, and it is still sending questions to the bank's traders around the world. Last year, Britain's Financial Conduct Authority began a formal probe into possible manipulation in the global foreign exchange market. The U.S. Justice Department is also engaged in an active investigation of possible manipulation of the market, the world's largest. Earlier this month, U.S. banking regulators from the Federal Reserve and Office of the Comptroller of the Currency visited Citigroup Inc's &lt;C.N&gt; London offices in connection with the investigation. A spokesperson for the Fed declined comment. While market manipulation isn't the Fed's remit, it does have enforcement powers in safety and soundness matters, an issue raised by this investigation. The Office of the Controller of the Currency and the U.S. Department of Justice both declined to comment. Benchmark foreign exchange rates, often referred to as fixes, are a cornerstone of global financial markets, used to price trillions of dollars worth of investments and deals. They are relied on by companies, investors and central banks. Deutsche Bank has been the biggest FX trader in the world for nine years running, seeing 15.18 percent of global daily turnover in 2013, according to Euromoney magazine. The bank previously said it has received requests for information from regulatory authorities investigating trading in the foreign exchange market, and it is cooperating with these probes. It added that it will take disciplinary action with regard to individuals if merited. As a result of the investigation, Deutsche has restricted the use of chatrooms, another source familiar with the issue said, only allowing conversations between two participants and banning multi-party chats. (Additional reporting by Douwe Miedema in Washington and Jamie McGeever in London; Editing by Martin Howell and Ken Wills) FREE AppDownload
Sure has been cold out there lately. So cold, in fact, that the country is burning through natural gas at rates not seen in awhile. Despite booming production, NYMEX contract prices have climbed above $5 for the first time since 2010.   In his morning note today, UBS' Art Cashin says this trend may start bleeding into macro consumption, and that all eyes are on today's natgas inventory report at 10:30 a.m.  "Traders will carefully watch today's report on natural gas inventories," he writes. The polar vortex is burning up gas inventories rapidly. That means higher prices and much higher household expenses. You can choose to drive but you must heat your home and workplace. It will affect the economy." Here's what prices have looked like lately. Prices are down some this morning, but the Bloomberg consensus is for supplies to decline by 232 billion cubic feet, versus 107 bcf last week.  Investing.com FREE AppDownload
TBIWeekly initial jobless claims jumped to 348,000 for the week ended January 25. Economists were expecting a reading of 330,000, up from the revised print of 329,000. Continuing claims for the week ended January 18 fell to 2.991 million, down from the revised reading of 3.007 million the week before. U.S. stock futures are still in the green, but gains edged back after claims and this morning's GDP report (GDP slowed to 3.2%). "This is disappointing but could easily be due to nothing more than run-of-the-mill seasonal adjustment problems or the severe weather; much of the US suffered a second seriously cold snap last week," Pantheon's Ian Shepherdson wrote clients after the report. FREE AppDownload
FTN Financial"GDP rose 2.7% in 2013, but final sales rose just 1.9%. 2014 GDP growth will be built from the final sales base, not the GDP base."—Chris Low, chief economist at FTN FinancialThe first look at fourth quarter U.S. gross domestic product is out. According to the U.S. Bureau of Economic analysis, GDP rose 3.2% at an annualized rate in the fourth quarter, down from Q3's 4.1% pace of growth but right in line with consensus estimates. Personal consumption growth accelerated to 3.3% annualized in Q4 from 2.0% in Q3, but failed to reach consensus expectations for a 3.7% gain. The quarter-over-quarter change in the price index of core personal consumption expenditures was 1.1% at a seasonally adjusted annualized rate, down from 1.4% in Q3 but right in line with consensus estimates. The GDP price index, meanwhile, fell to 1.3% from 2.0% (landing slightly higher than the 1.2% consensus estimate. The contribution of inventories to GDP growth in Q4 was 0.42 percentage points, about a quarter of what it was in Q3. "The deceleration in real GDP in the fourth quarter reflected a deceleration in private inventory investment, a larger decrease in federal government spending, a downturn in residential fixed investment, and decelerations in state and local government spending and in nonresidential fixed investment that were partly offset by accelerations in exports and in PCE and a deceleration in imports," said the BEA in the release. Below is a complete summary of the data from the release: Real personal consumption expenditures increased 3.3 percent in the fourth quarter, compared with an increase of 2.0 percent in the third. Durable goods increased 5.9 percent, compared with an increase of 7.9 percent. Nondurable goods increased 4.4 percent, compared with an increase of 2.9 percent. Services increased 2.5 percent, compared with an increase of 0.7 percent. Real nonresidential fixed investment increased 3.8 percent in the fourth quarter, compared with an increase of 4.8 percent in the third. Nonresidential structures decreased 1.2 percent, in contrast to an increase of 13.4 percent. Equipment increased 6.9 percent, compared with an increase of 0.2 percent. Intellectual property products increased 3.2 percent, compared with an increase of 5.8 percent. Real residential fixed investment decreased 9.8 percent, in contrast to an increase of 10.3 percent. Real exports of goods and services increased 11.4 percent in the fourth quarter, compared with an increase of 3.9 percent in the third. Real imports of goods and services increased 0.9 percent, compared with an increase of 2.4 percent. Real federal government consumption expenditures and gross investment decreased 12.6 percent in the fourth quarter, compared with a decrease of 1.5 percent in the third. National defense decreased 14.0 percent, compared with a decrease of 0.5 percent. Nondefense decreased 10.3 percent, compared with a decrease of 3.1 percent. Real state and local government consumption expenditures and gross investment increased 0.5 percent, compared with an increase of 1.7 percent. The change in real private inventories added 0.42 percentage point to the fourth-quarter change in real GDP after adding 1.67 percentage points to the third-quarter change. Private businesses increased inventories $127.2 billion in the fourth quarter, following increases of $115.7 billion in the third quarter and $56.6 billion in the second. Real final sales of domestic product -- GDP less change in private inventories -- increased 2.8 percent in the fourth quarter, compared with an increase of 2.5 percent in the third. "No headline shock but some of the details are startling," says Ian Shepherdson, chief economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics. "Residential construction plunged at a 9.8% annualized rate, after five straight double-digit gains. This suggests the BEA has assumed a hefty drop in December, presumably due to the severe weather. By contrast, inventories rose even faster than in Q3, contributing 0.4% to GDP growth. This is unsustainable, as is the 1.3% contribution from foreign trade; both will be much weaker in Q1." Given the drop in government spending, however, Renaissance Macro head of U.S. economics Neil Dutta is relatively optimistic going forward, even though headline GDP growth failed to meet his expectations. "The bulk of this miss stemmed from a sharp drop in federal government spending, which shaved top-line GDP growth by a full percentage point," says Dutta. "The drop was spread in defense and nondefense spending, falling 14% and 10.3%, respectively. Stripping out this drag, private real GDP expanded 4.2% in Q4 after a 4.2% rise in Q3. That’s solid. With the pace of fiscal retrenchment easing in 2014, headline growth will improve." FREE AppDownload
Getty ImagesHelle Thorning-Schmidt is the first female prime minister in Denmark's history.Denmark's government is in turmoil after the Socialist People's Party (SF) quit the ruling coalition over a deal with Goldman Sachs, Lars Eriksen of the Guardian reports. The deal involves Goldman purchasing a 19% stake in state-owned utility Dong Energy for $1.5 billion. Denmark’s shareholding would fall to about 60%. Despite the walkout, the deal has been approved and the government is expected survive. “We are pleased with the approval of this transaction and look forward to making this significant minority investment alongside the Danish State, ATP, PFA and the existing minority shareholders," a Goldman Sachs spokesperson told BI. "This is a long-term commitment which reflects our support for the management team's current strategy across the Company’s activities, including the significant renewable energy investments, which we believe will create value for all stakeholders.” (For an analysis on the financials of the deal, check out this post from Guan Yang.) Denmark's Socialist People's Party withdrew its six ministers from the 23-member Cabinet. Party leader Annette Vilhelmsen noted that she would continue to support the ruling coalition. Meanwhile, some center-left politicians accused the government of betrayal. Milne notes that the minority government of Thorning-Schmidt has been fragile since it was formed in 2011, but the bid by the fifth-largest U.S. bank has caused the most serious threat to its survival. “The Dong share sale is putting more nails in the government’s coffin,” Christoffer Green-Pedersen, a political science professor at the University of Aarhus, told Bloomberg. Bloomberg reports that 68% of Danes are against Goldman holding the stake and thousands of protesters gathered outside the parliament last night to voice their anger over the deal. An online petition gathered more than 185,000 signatures against the deal.  Aarhus-protest mod regeringens salg af DONG-aktier til Goldman Sachs. Stiften.dk #Aarhus #aarhuspol #dong #stiften pic.twitter.com/JpmJ28cSwP  FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
APSome mobile and tablet manufacturers are being charged six-figure fees by third party testing facilities for a license to use Gmail, Google Play and other parts of Google's mobile services, the Guardian has learned. The fees, which can range from $40,000 to $75,000, are part of a largely hidden production process for the hundreds of large and small manufacturers in the mobile device industry. The Android mobile operating system is free for consumers and for manufacturers to install, but manufacturers need a licence to install Gmail, Google Maps and the Google Play store - collectively called Google Mobile Services (GMS). Manufacturers can be refused a licence if they do not meet Google's requirements. Google does not charge for a GMS licence, but any company producing an Android device will need a certificate from an authorized testing facility in order to apply for the licence. That often incurs fees. One source told the Guardian that the fee varies and is negotiated on a case-by-case basis, with one example costing $40,000 for a batch of at least 30,000 devices. A separate source said that in another deal, a testing facility quoted $75,000 to test 100,000 devices. Google said it had no comment on GMS licensing. A Welsh distributor, KMS Components, was put out of business in January after the retailer Argos withheld £3.2m because of a GMS licensing dispute. Google-approved, licensed manufacturers include those making their own devices, such as Samsung, and original device manufacturers Foxconn and Archos. Paid-testing is also offered by a range other non-approved companies. "Installing Google play without a licence is illegal," said one source in the Android developer community, who did not want to be named. "Smaller OEMs [device manufacturers] don't register on Google's radar, and Google tends to turn a blind eye. Retailers get pressured by legal OEMs to make sure illegal installs of GMS are weeded out. It's almost like crowdsourcing." In August 2010, Augen Electronics of Florida removed the $150 tablet it was selling through US retail store Kmart because unlicensed GMS software was not removed before the devices went on sale. The company later closed down. For consumers, meanwhile, all Google mobile services are free to use, and individuals can also legally download and install the full suite of apps to their own device. • The original article was taken down pending investigation, on 28 January 2014. The article was launched in error before editorial processes had been completed and contained errors for which we apologize. The story said that Google charges Android device makers a license fee for Google mobile applications. This is wrong. In addition the article stated in reference to a licence fee that: "It is a lot of money, but you can't see it anywhere [in Google's accounts]." This is also incorrect. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Suhaib SalemMembers of Palestinian security forces loyal to Hamas take part in a graduation ceremony in Gaza City January 29, 2014. Good morning. Here's what you need to know. — Shares of PulteGroup are up more than 5% in pre-market trading following the release of earnings results for the quarter ended December 31. The homebuilder reported earnings of $0.57 a share, more than the $0.45 consensus Wall Street estimate. Revenue was $1.66 billion, just short of the consensus $1.67 billion estimate. "The increase in revenue was driven by a 13% increase in average selling price to $325,000, partially offset by a 4% decrease in closings to 4,964 homes," the company said in a statement. "The higher average selling price reflects price increases, as well as a continued shift in product mix." — Google shares are up nearly 3% in pre-market trading after the company announced it will sell smartphone manufacturer Motorola to Chinese PC manufacturer Lenovo for $2.9 billion. Google bought the company in 2012 for $12.5 billion, but it's still keeping billions of dollars worth of intellectual property garnered in the deal, so the hit it is taking is much smaller than the headline numbers suggest. "The smartphone market is super competitive, and to thrive it helps to be all-in when it comes to making mobile devices," said Google CEO Larry Page in a blog post. "It’s why we believe that Motorola will be better served by Lenovo — which has a rapidly growing smartphone business and is the largest (and fastest-growing) PC manufacturer in the world." — S&amp;P 500 futures are heading higher this morning and U.S. Treasuries are heading lower following a rough Thursday session for Asian indices — notably Japan's Nikkei 225, which fell 2.5%, but also the Hong Kong Hang Seng, which fell 0.5%, and the Shanghai Composite, which fell 0.8%. European indices are also in the red nearly across the board with the exception of the Italian FTSE MIB, but the losses are smaller than in Asia. Gold is headed lower, and the dollar is strengthening against the euro and the yen. — Facebook shares are up nicely in pre-market trading following the release of better-than-expected earnings results for the quarter ended December 31. The highlights: earnings per share were $0.31 ($0.27 estimated), revenue was $2.59 billion ($2.35 billion estimated), and monthly active users numbered 1.23 billion (up 16%). — The first look at fourth quarter gross domestic product is released by the U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis at 8:30 AM ET. The median estimate of market economists surveyed by Bloomberg is 3.2% annualized GDP growth in Q4, down from 4.1% annualized in Q3. Personal consumption growth, however, is expected to have been 3.7% annualized, up from 2.0% in Q3. The GDP price index is expected to have fallen to 1.2% from 2.0%, and the quarter-over-quarter price index of personal consumption expenditures is expected to have fallen to 1.1% at a seasonally-adjusted annualized rate from 1.4% in Q3. Follow the release LIVE » — Also out at 8:30 AM are weekly jobless claims figures. The median estimate of market economists surveyed by Bloomberg is 330,000 initial claims filed in the week ended January 25, up slightly from 326,000 in the previous week. Continuing claims are expected to have fallen to 3.000 million in the week ended January 18 from 3.056 million the week before. — Rounding out the U.S. data calendar is the release of pending home sales data at 10 AM. The median estimate of market economists surveyed by Bloomberg is a 0.3% drop in sales — both from the previous month and year over year. Follow all of the data LIVE on Business Insider » — The U.S. Treasury is holding two debt auctions in one day, both in significant size. It will auction $35 billion of 5-year notes at 11:30 AM and $29 billion of 7-year notes at 1 PM. "There could be indigestion since the combined duration coming to the market between 5-year and 7-year will be roughly an unprecedented $40 billion of 10-year equivalents, which is the highest single-day U.S. Treasury duration supply on record (at least since 7-year issuance resumed in February 2009)," write Nomura interest rate strategists in a note this morning. "We believe this setup along with moving 5yr auction to 11:30am may expose the risk of tails." — German unemployment unexpectedly fell to 6.8% from 6.9% in January as the ranks of the unemployed fell by 28,000, a much bigger drop than the 5,000 expected by market economists. — The final results of this month's HSBC/Markit China manufacturing Purchasing Managers Index survey revealed a slightly larger deterioration in business conditions in China's manufacturing sector than the preliminary results released a week ago suggested. The report's headline index fell to 49.5 from December's 50.5 reading, slightly below the 49.6 flash estimate. Numbers above 50 reflect various degrees of expansion, where as readings below 50 reflect various degrees of contraction. MARKET COMMENTARY "It is reasonable to expect this cycle will play out differently from past EM cycles. It looks like a potentially elongated cycle, allied not least to 1) the very slow turn in U.S. monetary policy, and 2) China’s capacity to act as a buffer. Nonetheless, the post-crisis import of overly-easy Fed monetary policy has been pervasive in the EM world, spawning frothy asset markets that will be extremely difficult to collectively soft-land. "Fortunately, 'risk' looks better distributed in the developed world in real money versus fast money leverage accounts, but the scale of outstanding cross-border assets highlights the scale of the problem, if a clear tipping point is reached for real money. Much will still depend on the extent to which EM credit cycles turn vicious, which could play out over years, rather than months. The most unpredictable elements are whether there will be any dislocations in systemically-important EM financial institutions that would greatly impact path-sensitive growth scenarios." —Alan Ruskin, global head of G-10 FX strategy at Deutsche Bank "10-year Treasuries had their third bullish outside day on Wednesday so far this year, which is a very rare event and one you'd have to go back several years to find (2011 to be exact, so think European crisis and U.S. downgrade). It speaks to a market that is both short and nervous about something. Clearly the jacking up in interest rates by emerging market [central banks] may have a currency supportive element for a period of time — a nano second is measurable, isn’t it? — but doing that to rates doesn’t exactly help economies that are arguably slowing, help stocks that were otherwise at risk, nor soothe political turmoil, which is another story altogether... "Emerging markets are certainly a catalyst, a trigger, but we think the theme is one of more general risk reduction to get things closer to historic balance. As such this move could have some legs to it. Understand it’s not about the Fed, other than tapering, nor about a sense of the U.S. economy slowing but rather an adjustment to holdings that only needed price action itself to serve as an incentive." —David Ader, head of government bond strategy at CRT Capital  "We believe Greece has reached a turning point and 2014 is a pivotal and challenging year, yet providing a great opportunity: the anticipated rebound of the economy and the upcoming debt relief measures could signal the beginning of the end of the crisis, putting the country in a virtuous circle. Political stability and determination for implementation and delivery are the key prerequisites for the last, but crucial, miles of the marathon.  "Our base-case scenario for 2014 (&gt;50% probability) includes: low single-digit win by SYRIZA in the EU Parliament elections, but no snap elections in 2014; an agreement with the troika and completion of its review by the end of Q1; marginal economic recovery of 0.5%; debt relief measures in Q3 and coverage of the funding gap most likely through a small third bailout package without any additional austerity measures.  "In contrast, a bear scenario (&lt;40% probability) could stem from a significant defeat of the coalition parties in May elections, leading to heightened political tension and snap elections in 2014. Such a development with prevailing political instability would paralyze the economic activity and jeopardize the fiscal adjustment process, while discussions on debt relief measures would be put on hold." —Manos Giakoumis, research director at Euroxx Securities FREE AppDownload
Margin CallDave Lutz of Stifel, Nicolaus passes along the top topics about which clients are talking about today. Good Morning!   US Futures are meandering along what many hope is the “Floor”, the 100dma in the E-minis, as they gain 30bp.   Nasdaq Futures fare better on the back of Earnings – adding 40bp, and remain almost 3% above their 100dma.  Bear markets close higher than where they opened.  Thus far in 2014, the SPX has closed below our opening 12 times, and above 7.  Euro markets are slightly red, with the DAX off 30bp (had been off 1%), and some periphery countries nearing unchanged.   Over in Asia, The Nikkei was hit for 2.5% on a surging Yen and their Retail Sales print light ahead of heavy data tonight, while China retreated nearly 1% as their PMI printed in contraction, a first in 6 months.  Volume is weak in Europe (Selling exhaustion?) and Asia (Some exchanges closed for Holiday) – but of the 26 Global sectors moving overnight, only German Industrials and EU banks are in the green.  Banks, Property and Materials stocks the biggest losers.    Single Stock movers include FB +13% (#s), FLEX +10% (#s), TWTR +6% (FB #s), GOOG + 3% (Moto Sale).  Losers include CTXS -8% (Multiple d/gs), MOS -1% (POT #s).   We have over 10% of the S&amp;P reporting today.   COP, V, MMM, UPS, XOM, PHM among those this AM, while we see GOOG, AMZN, BRCM tonight.Looking at the EM angst – we have some stability in the countries making headlines this week – with the Brazilian Real jumping against the Dollar and the Rand trending better as well – while Turkey’s Lira meanders around unchanged, after testing yesterday’s lows in the overnight.   Seems the sharks have moved on (for the moment) to Hungary, where their Forint is getting smacked hard this AM (HUFUSD the cross).The US 10YY is slightly higher this AM, but has been rejected from 2.7% several times in the overnight.   The strong bid in Bonds coming from Safety, Pension rotation, Asian Demand on Yield Differential, and positioning from heavy shorts.  We do have heavy supply today – 2 auctions - $35B in 5's at 11:30, and $29B in 7's at 1.   The DXY is higher, making some gains against € and Yen (Nikkei futures unch tho) – causing a headwind for commodities.   All eyes remain on the Natty complex, which surged 10% yesterday in a squeeze on expiry of the current contract – as players tried to lock in prices for February with another “Polar Vortex” approaching – the reversal of that stress buying has the March future off 4% early ahead of the Inventory data at 10:30.   Both WTI and Brent have a bid, but we are seeing weakness in Metals – primarily industrials, as that China PMI number weighs.    Aside from the aforementioned, we get GDP and weekly claims data at 8:30, Pending Home sales for Dec at 10, a small POMO at 11. FREE AppDownload
Screenshot/YoutubeAnnie Hall, 1977We all know the story. Boy meets girl. Boy dates girl. Boy realizes she's not the one, or he's not the one, or someone else is the one, or no one will ever be the one, or ... whatever the reason, it has to end. But how? Ever keen to grill my friends on their private lives, I got in contact with a bunch to quiz them on the best and worst break-up techniques. Here's what they said. Don't dump from under the covers. "This is definitely the most horrible way," said a friend, speaking from grim personal experience. As all suave (or even vaguely reasonable) gentlemen know, there really is no worse time to end a relationship than closely after the act of physical romance. So don't do it. Be honest, but not evil. "This isn't the time to be brutal, but some indication of what's behind your desire to split can be a big help," said another friend. She wanted to hear why the relationship ended, without the dissection lingering on anything particularly spiteful or painful. "This gives us something to analyze and to be angry/sad/happy at, something to talk over with our friends, which is all part of the healing process." Bin the clichés. Apart from being grimace-inducing, we can spot the standard lines a mile off. It makes things feel a bit fake, even cheap. One friend cited the risk of over-analyzing clichés and jumping to the wrong conclusions. "For instance, 'it's not you, it's me' can mean 'I'm totally sleeping with other women', while 'I'm not ready to settle down' will be taken as 'I want to sleep with other women.’” Time it right. Timing is complicated. I get it. In December and January, you have the holidays. In February, Valentine's Day. In summer, picnics and Pimms, and everyone knows drinking alone is no fun. So when do you do it? According to one friend, the golden rule is to avoid birthdays, anniversaries, Christmas, and other people's weddings. Breaking up at these "is not multitasking, it's mean." Also, don’t do it alongside a tragic event. "Someone I know was dumped by the bloke she was with for three years within a month of her dad passing away!" Do it face-to-face. More than anything else, this was the most common request. Don't text. Don't email. Absolutely don't use Facebook. Come on, you’re better than that. "Don't even think about using social media unless you are 12-years-old and have only been going out with someone since lunchtime," said one previously-burnt friend. Another friend suggested a café. "Take me out to coffee and tell me to my face. Yes, it's harder and might lead to embarrassing squirming and awkward silences, but it's more courteous and easier to talk things through. Don't linger in the 'possibly maybe' space. If you break up with someone, make sure to end it properly. The awkward 'I don't think I love you but maybe I do?' will just draw things out and add a bad shadow to what was possibly a fantastic relationship. "So many of my girlfriends – in fact pretty much all of them – have had relationships where the guy has broken up with them without drawing a clear line in the sand. You need to be really clear. Say 'I think it would be unwise to see each other for a while', or something along those lines," advised one friend. On no accounts should you break up with someone and then immediately seek to get back in their bed for one last hurrah. Be careful when it comes to getting back together. It's easy to question the break-up once it's all over. Think about why you're missing your ex. Is it because you're just lonely? Do you want a bit of a cuddle? Or is it because you feel you've made a mistake and that the reasons you broke up in the first place have changed? So there we go. Good luck with the boy meets girl thing. Hopefully the above makes the painful process of breaking up a bit less horrible – but fingers crossed that your relationship goes so well you won't ever have need to call upon it in the first place.  FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVTom PerkinsLast week, WSJ published a letter to the editor from VC Tom Perkins who said that criticism of the 1% was similar to Kristalnacht and the Nazi persecution of the Jews. Perkins has been flayed since then. Now the WSJ editorial board has weighed in and said that Perkins was right. They admit maybe the exact comparison is inapt, but they argue the strong reaction has vindicated him. While claiming to be outraged at the Nazi reference, the critics seem more incensed that Mr. Perkins dared to question the politics of economic class warfare. The boys at Bloomberg View—we read them since no one else does—devoted an entire editorial to inequality and Mr. Perkins's "unhinged Nazi rant." Others denounced him for defending his former wife Danielle Steel, and even for owning too many Rolex watches. Maybe the critics are afraid that Mr. Perkins is onto something about the left's political method. Consider the recent record of liberals in power. They're the ones obsessed with the Koch brothers and other billionaires contributing to conservative causes, siccing journalists to trash them and federal agencies to shut them down. Oh WSJ. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Alejandro ErnestoCuba's President Raul Castro laughs during a meeting with East Timor's President Taur Matan Ruak (not pictured) during a meeting in Havana's Revolution Palace September 27, 2013. BRUSSELS/MADRID (Reuters) - The European Union will agree next month to deepen relations with Cuba in its most significant overture to the communist island since the bloc lifted diplomatic sanctions in 2008, people close to the matter told Reuters. Foreign ministers from the EU's 28 countries will give the go-ahead on February 10 to launch talks with Havanaon a special cooperation accord to increase trade, investment and dialogue on human rights. The pact could be agreed by the end of 2015. "Cuba wants capital and the European Union wants influence," said one person involved in the talks who declined to be named because of the sensitivity of the issue. "This cooperation could serve as a prelude to much more." Two other people with knowledge of the negotiations told Reuters that a consensus had been reached in Brusselsto give momentum to Cuba's market-oriented reforms under President Raul Castro and to position European companies for any transition to a more capitalist economy there in the longer term. While the initial impact of a cooperation agreement will be limited, the symbolism is huge for the EU, whose ties with Cuba had been strained since it imposed sanctions in 2003 in response to Havana's arrest of 75 dissidents. Although the EU lifted those sanctions in 2008, the normalization of relations has been tortuous because of resistance from Poland and the Czech Republic due to their own communist past. Havana has rejected the EU's "common position" on Cuba that the bloc adopted in 1996 to promote human rights and democracy. Furthermore, the United States, Cuba's long-time foe that has kept an embargo against the Caribbean island since 1962, had exerted pressure on Brussels to try to isolate Havana. Washington has not sought to block the EU's latest efforts, people close to the talks said, while Poland and the Czech Republic now back a deal with Cuba. In a sign of impatience with the status quo, the Netherlands sent its foreign minister to Havana in January. This first such trip by the Dutch since the 1959 Cuban Revolution broke with EU policy to limit high-level visits. Spain, the former colonial power in Latin America and the Caribbean, has also been pushing for a change of approach since ailing, long-time Cuban leader Fidel Castro handed power to his younger brother Raul in 2008. Some EU countries see the 1996 "common position" policy as outdated because 18 EU governments have bilateral agreements with Cuba outside the common position, making it hard for the bloc to speak with one voice. Still, Spanish Foreign Minister Jose Manuel Garcia-Margallo has been adamant that the "common position" will remain for the time being while the European Commission, the EU executive, negotiates the cooperation pact. "If Europe wants to have a presence when there's a transition in Cuba, the EU has to start working now. It's right to start dialogue now so that Europe isn't absent when a transition happens," said Carlos Malamud, head of Latin American research at the Real Instituto Elcano, a think-tank in Madrid. A cooperation pact, which the EU has used as a tool in the past to strengthen relations with Central America and Asia, is not likely to increase trade greatly because Cuba sells very little to Europe. Besides cigars and rum, Cuba's exports are not of huge interest to the EU, but Brussels believes developing business ties is the best way to press for change in Cuba. The European Union is Cuba's biggest foreign investor and Cuba's second biggest trading partner afterVenezuela, and a third of the tourists to the island every year come from the EU. Cuba recently opened a Chinese-style special economic zone and is preparing a new foreign investment law. It is seeking foreign investment at its port facilities in Mariel Bay to take advantage of the expansion of the Panama Canal. (Additional reporting by Adrian Croft; Editing by Mark Heinrich) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Gary CameronSenate Majority Leader Harry Reid announced his opposition Wednesday to trade promotion legislation, tossing a wrench into White House efforts to build congressional support for massive free-trade deals with Asia and Europe. "I'm against 'fast track,'" Reid bluntly told reporters a day after President Barack Obama called on Congress to pass such a tool to help open new markets for American products. Asked if he will prevent such trade promotion authority legislation from going to the floor for a vote, Reid said "we'll see," adding, "I think everyone would be well advised just to not push this right now." TPA would allow Congress to pass or reject the deals on simple up or down votes, barring lawmakers from changing results of the delicate, years-long negotiations between Washington and other nations. Obama seeks to forge stronger trade ties with Pacific Rim nations as part of Washington's pivot to Asia. His administration has placed a high priority on the 12-nation Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) at a time of rising China clout. And a free-trade deal with Europe would be the world's biggest. The EU estimates it would bring annual benefits of 119 billion euros ($164 billion) for the bloc's 28 member states, and only slightly less for the United States. Many labor groups opposed such deals because they would increase competition and potentially lower labor standards. Consumer and environmental organizations -- also usually reliably in Obama's camp -- not to mention liberal Democrats in Congress, are deeply skeptical of ramming through such massive deals without elected officials having a chance to weigh in. "I think there's a great deal of public concern coming from the fact that there's so much secrecy of the content, of the draft that nobody's seen," liberal Senate Democrat Jeff Merkley said of the TPP. "There needs to be a full public vetting of the content." Last week, 151 of the House's 200 Democrats wrote the president expressing their opposition to fast-track. Hundreds of outside groups did the same. Business groups like the US Chamber of Commerce have lobbied hard for the deals. And several Republicans, thrust into a rare alliance with a Democratic president, expressed concern that Reid effectively put both trade deals on ice. Reid's opposition marks "a significant threat" to the Asian and European trade pacts, Senator Marco Rubio told AFP. John Cornyn, the Senate's number two Republican, agreed. "I think Harry and the president need to have a conversation and figure out what they're going to do," he said. Reid earned the wrath of Tony Fratto, an international trade adviser in the George W. Bush White House, who said the Senate leader stood opposed to policies by Republican and Democratic presidents alike who have championed trade expansion. "Reid pulled the rug out from maybe the only bipartisan economic policy left in Washington, and kicked the president in the shins for good measure," said Fratto, now a managing partner at Hamilton Place Strategies. Obama was able to get free trade deals with Colombia, South Korea and Panama passed by Congress in 2011 under fast-track authority approved during Bush's presidency, but that permit has since expired. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
APAPWASHINGTON (Reuters) - Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke departs the U.S. central bank on Friday after eight largely turbulent years in which he guided the economy through the most virulent financial crisis and recession since the Great Depression. Following is a look at Bernanke's two four-year terms in office: October 24, 2005 - President George W. Bush nominates Bernanke to be Fed chairman. Bernanke is confirmed by the Senate on January 31, 2006, and sworn in the following day. August 17, 2007 - Fed cuts discount rate it charges banks for emergency loans to ease growing strains in financial markets. November 14, 2007 - Fed announces it will increase frequency of its economic forecasts in an effort to improve transparency. December 2007 - U.S. economy slips into recession. December 12, 2007 - Fed launches Term Auction Facility to encourage borrowing by banks hesitant to borrow at its discount window. It was the first of several crisis-era programs the Fed would launch to keep money flowing through the economy. March 11, 2008 - Fed invokes emergency powers to launch $200 billion facility to loan Treasury securities to bond dealers against a broad range of collateral, including home mortgages. The Fed would invoke emergency powers multiple times during the crisis to launch new lending facilities. March 14, 2008 - Fed provides emergency financing to Bear Stearns through JPMorgan, the first bailout of a broker since the Great Depression. March 16, 2008 - Bear Stearns collapses and JPMorgan agrees to buy it with $30 billion in backing from the New York Federal Reserve Bank. Fed launches Primary Dealer Credit Facility for investment banks. September 7, 2008 - U.S. government takes over mortgage finance firms Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. September 14, 2008 - Bank of America buys Merrill Lynch for about $50 billion. September 15, 2008 - Lehman Brothers becomes the largest firm in U.S. history to declare Chapter 11 bankruptcy after the Fed and Treasury decide not to bail it out. September 16, 2008 - Fed lends $85 billion to insurer American International Group to prevent its bankruptcy. September 19, 2008 - Fed begins Asset-Backed Commercial Paper Money Market Mutual Fund Liquidity Facility to foster liquidity in the ABCP market and money markets in general. September 21, 2008 - Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs become bank holding companies, gaining access to Fed's discount window. September 23, 2008 - Bernanke and Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson urge Congress to approve $700 billion financial bailout fund. September 29, 2008 - Dow Jones industrial average drops 778 points, its largest ever one-day decline, after the House of Representatives fails to pass bailout bill. The Senate passes the bill on October 1 and the House takes it up again on October 3 and passes it. October 8, 2008 - Fed, European Central Bank and the central banks of Canada, Britain, Switzerland and Sweden coordinate a global interest rate cut. October 21, 2008 - Fed announces $600 billion facility to help money markets purchase certificates of deposits and commercial paper. October 27, 2008 - Fed expands support of commercial paper market with creation of a temporary Commercial Paper Funding Facility to extend liquidity to non-bank issuers of the paper. November 23, 2008 - Fed, Treasury and Federal Deposit Insurance Corp bail out Citigroup by backing $306 billion in loans and acquiring preferred shares in the bank. November 25, 2008 - Fed launches first round of quantitative easing, or QE1, with plans to buy up to $500 billion in mortgage-backed securities (MBS) and $100 billion in housing agency debt. December 16, 2008 - Fed cuts overnight federal funds rate to between zero and 0.25 percent. January 16, 2009 - Fed, Treasury and FDIC bail out Bank of America by backing some $118 billion in loans and acquiring stock in the bank. February 18, 2009 - Fed policymakers add longer-run projections for GDP, unemployment and inflation to their quarterly forecasts, a move seen as effectively establishing informal inflation target. March 15, 2009 - In interview on CBS's 60 Minutes, Bernanke says he sees "green shoots" of economic revival. It is the first television interview by a sitting Fed chairman in 20 years. March 18, 2009 - Fed announces it will expand QE1 with additional $750 billion in MBS, $100 billion in housing agency debt and $300 billion in Treasury securities. It also vows for first time to hold short-term rates near zero "for an extended period." June 2009 - U.S. economic recession ends. The 18-month downturn was the longest and deepest since the Great Depression. August 2009 - President Barack Obama nominates Bernanke for second term. October 2009 - U.S. unemployment rate peaks at 10 percent, its highest since 1983. January 28, 2010 - Senate confirms Bernanke for second term. The 70-30 vote is the weakest endorsement of a chairman in the Fed's 96-year history. November 3, 2010 - Fed announces second round of quantitative easing, or QE2, totaling $600 billion in longer-term Treasury bonds. April 27, 2011 - Bernanke holds Fed's first post-meeting news conference. August 29, 2011 - Fed says plans to keep rates near zero until mid-2013. September 21, 2011 - Fed announces "Operation Twist," a plan to exchange $400 billion of short-term Treasury bonds on its balance sheet for long-term bonds in an attempt to lower longer-term interest rates. January 25, 2012 - Fed adopts inflation target, setting 2 percent as the goal. It also says it expects to keep rates near zero through late 2014 and begins publishing policymakers' projections of when they think federal funds rate should rise. September 13, 2012 - Fed announces third round of quantitative easing, or QE3. It starts by purchasing $40 billion in mortgage-backed securities per month and says it will continue to reinvest principal payments from its holdings. December 12, 2012 - With Operation Twist expiring at year end, Fed expands QE3 by adding purchases of $45 billion of longer-term Treasuries per month. It also says it expects rates near zero would be appropriate as long as the jobless rate is above 6.5 percent and inflation does not threaten to top 2.5 percent. June 19, 2013 - Bernanke says Fed expects to begin to wind down QE3 by year end and bring it to full halt by mid-2014. September 18, 2013 - Bernanke says the U.S. economy is not yet strong enough to begin reducing the bond buying, confounding markets which had been betting on a decision to taper the purchases. October 9, 2013 - Obama nominates Fed Vice Chair Janet Yellen to replace Bernanke. December 18, 2013 - Fed announces plan to reduce monthly bond buying to $75 billion from $85 billion. Bernanke says Fed would likely continue to cut the program at a "measured" pace through 2014, winding it down completely by late in the year. January 29, 2014 - Fed decides to further reduce its monthly bond purchases by $10 billion, to $65 billion. Bernanke adjourns his last policy-setting meeting without making any changes to the central bank's other main policy plank: a longer-term plan to keep interest rates low for some time to come. (Compiled by Paige Gance; Editing by James Dalgleish and Paul Simao) FREE AppDownload
Justin Sullivan/Getty Images(Reuters) - It will be difficult for the U.S. justice department to approve a merger between any of the top four U.S. wireless phone companies, said William Baer, assistant attorney general for the antitrust division, the New York Times reported. Baer's comments come amid speculation that T-Mobile US Inc &lt;TMUS.N&gt; and Sprint Corp &lt;S.N&gt; might consummate a deal in coming months. He said any deal would face intense scrutiny because consumers have enjoyed "much more favorable competitive conditions" since the division blocked a proposed merger between AT&amp;T Inc &lt;T.N&gt; and T-Mobile in 2011, the NYT reported. "It's going to be hard for someone to make a persuasive case that reducing four firms to three is actually going to improve competition for the benefit of American consumers," he told the newspaper, without referring to any specific deal. Baer is expected to warn antitrust lawyers at a meeting of the New York State Bar Association on Thursday that the antitrust department too often sees merger proposals that include little more than token efforts to deal with competitive issues, the paper reported. Such deals are often attempts to eliminate a big market participant, Baer is expected to say, while giving up something to a tiny competitor that does not play a significant role in industry competition, the NYT reported. (Reporting by Shubhankar Chakravorty in Bangalore; Editing by Kirti Pandey) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Luke MacGregorA Shell logo is seen at a petrol station in London January 31, 2013.LONDON (Reuters) - Anglo-Dutch oil company Royal Dutch Shell &lt;RDSa.L&gt; plans to sell assets, cut spending and freeze a controversial Arctic drilling program to improve returns after a major profit warning. Just a month into his new job as chief executive of the world's No.3 investor-owned oil company, Ben van Beurden set out plans to make the group much leaner. The planned changes follow a profit warning for the quarter to the end of December, detailing across-the-board problems that partly reflect how the industry is grappling with flat oil prices, the need to control costs and replace oil reserves that are being used up in production. "Our overall strategy remains robust, but 2014 will be a year where we are changing emphasis, to improve our returns and cash flow performance," van Beurden said in a statement. Other big oil companies are also struggling for profit growth. Shell's warning, two weeks after van Beurden replaced former boss Peter Voser, followed one earlier in January by Chevron Corp &lt;CVX.N&gt;, the second-largest U.S. oil company. Shell's capital spending will fall to $37 billion this year from $46 billion in 2013, it said, while it will also increase its rate of asset disposals, with a target to sell $15 billion worth of assets in 2014-15. The company said it would also take tough decisions on projects, cancelling this year's planned controversial and costly hunt for oil in Alaska's Arctic seas, in a U-turn of plans made as recently as December. To sweeten investors, it plans to raise its first quarter dividend by 4 percent compared with the same period last year to $0.47 per share, in a move which it said reflected confidence in its ability to boost free cash flow. Shares in Shell gained 2.2 percent to 2,173 pence, making it one of the top risers on Britain's bluechip index &lt;.FTSE&gt;. "This is a good start, they're saying the right things, more loudly and more quantified than we had expected," Royal Bank of Canada analyst Peter Hutton said, adding that the increase in the dividend was "confident" and ahead of his expectations. Shell had spent around $4.5 billion searching for oil off the coast of Alaska since 2005 but was forced to cancel last year's Arctic offshore drill season after the grounding of a drillship in a storm in 2012 and against a backdrop of significant environmental opposition. "We are making hard choices in our world-wide portfolio to improve Shell's capital efficiency", van Beurden said. The $15 billion of disposals targeted for this year and next would be equivalent to around 6.5 percent of Shell's current $228 billion market capitalization and compared to proceeds from divestments of $1.7 billion in 2013. RBC's Hutton said that on a return on average capital employed basis, Shell was in line with its peers at about 11 to 12 percent. But the company had more opportunity than others to improve that metric, he added, given that a high proportion of its capital was employed in projects yet to come onstream or in U.S. shale gas. Weak gas prices in the U.S. prompted Shell to say that it was considering asset sales in its U.S. shale business and it warned that impairment charges were possible. The company is currently valued below its peers, with a forward looking price to earnings ratio of 9.8 times, compared with its European peers which are on 11.6 times. Van Beurden also said Shell would abandon its previously-set cash flow and spending targets. The company had set a cash flow target of achieving between $175 billion to $200 billion between 2012 and 2015, at an oil price of between $80 to $100. Shell had also pledged a four-year net investment spend of $130 billion for 2012 to 2015, based on a $100 oil price scenario. Fourth-quarter earnings, excluding identified items and on a current cost of supply basis, came in at $2.9 billion, in line with a downgraded profit expectation it gave on January 17, and making the quarter its least profitable for five years. Shell blamed the fourth quarter profit warning on weak refining profit margins, higher production costs, output stoppages in Nigeria and maintenance in its LNG business. The company had also undershot analysts' forecasts in the third quarter of 2013. The step-up in disposals had been flagged by Shell last October, although no target was given, and the company has already begun the process, raising $2.14 billion from selling stakes in projects in Australia and Brazil. Van Beurden is due to give more detail on his strategy for the company at a management day on March 13. U.S. oil firms Exxon Mobil Corp &lt;XOM.N&gt;, the world's largest publicly-traded oil company, and ConocoPhillips &lt;COP.N&gt; are both due to report fourth-quarter earnings later on Thursday. (editing by Kate Holton, Jane Merriman and Anna Willard) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Toru HanaiDeutsche Bank logos in Tokyo, Japan.NEW YORK (Reuters) - Deutsche Bank has suspended the head of its emerging markets foreign exchange trading desk in New York in connection with ongoing investigations into the alleged manipulation of the global currency market, a source familiar with the matter said. Diego Moraiz, who has been with the bank since 2004 and has specialized in trading the Mexican peso, was told by the bank on December 18 that he was suspended, the source said. Moraiz's suspension came after an external consulting firm hired by Deutsche Bank examined emails and communications in chatrooms going back seven years, the source said. The specific reason for the suspension is unclear. Reuters couldn't determine which consulting firm had been retained. The source did not know whether Moraiz was still being paid or when the investigation will be completed. Moraiz, who is from Argentina, remains in the United States, the source said. The source spoke on condition of anonymity because the investigation is an internal bank matter and is continuing. Moraiz did not respond to several phone calls from Reuters. Deutsche Bank spokesman Sebastian Howell said the bank does not comment on individual staff. Global financial regulators are looking into allegations that traders at some of the world's biggest banks, including Deutsche Bank, colluded to manipulate benchmark foreign-exchange rates used to set the value of trillions of dollars of investments, or the so-called WM/Reuters "fix". Previously, a separate source had told Reuters that several Deutsche Bank currency traders had been suspended at the bank's New York office. The investigation by the consulting firm is ongoing, the source said, and it is still sending questions to the bank's traders around the world. Last year, Britain's Financial Conduct Authority began a formal probe into possible manipulation in the global foreign exchange market. The U.S. Justice Department is also engaged in an active investigation of possible manipulation of the market, the world's largest. Earlier this month, U.S. banking regulators from the Federal Reserve and Office of the Comptroller of the Currencyvisited Citigroup Inc's &lt;C.N&gt; London offices in connection with the investigation. A spokesperson for the Fed declined comment. While market manipulation isn't the Fed's remit, it does have enforcement powers in safety and soundness matters, an issue raised by this investigation. The Office of the Controller of the Currency and the U.S. Department of Justice both declined to comment. Benchmark foreign exchange rates, often referred to as fixes, are a cornerstone of global financial markets, used to price trillions of dollars worth of investments and deals. They are relied on by companies, investors and central banks. Deutsche Bank has been the biggest FX trader in the world for nine years running, seeing 15.18 percent of global daily turnover in 2013, according to Euromoney magazine. The bank previously said it has received requests for information from regulatory authorities investigating trading in the foreign exchange market, and it is cooperating with these probes. It added that it will take disciplinary action with regard to individuals if merited. As a result of the investigation, Deutsche has restricted the use of chatrooms, another source familiar with the issue said, only allowing conversations between two participants and banning multi-party chats. (Additional reporting by Douwe Miedema in Washington and Jamie McGeever in London; Editing by Martin Howell and Ken Wills) FREE AppDownload
We want you to keep up on your emerging market currency horror show memes. So just for your edification, today everyone is talking about how the Hungarian Forint is getting smoked. Here's the Euro vs. the Forint going back a week, showing how much the Euro is surging against it. XE.com The current level represents a 3-year low for the Forint against the Euro. FREE AppDownload
Via Josh Brown, a Citi list that speaks for itself. Citi FREE AppDownload
BEIJING (AP) — Business should be picking up for Zhao Guoping, a Beijing shopkeeper, as Chinese leaders try to build a consumer society to replace a worn-out economic model based on trade and investment. But his financial struggle highlights the hurdles that ambitious effort faces. Squeezed by higher costs and weak sales to budget-minded shoppers, Zhao said the income from his neighborhood shop has fallen by half to 50,000 yuan ($6,000) a year. "Prices are rocketing up. People's incomes can hardly catch up," said Zhao, 38. "Daily necessities, yes, I still have to buy them. But anything I don't necessarily need, then no." The reluctance of Zhao and his customers to open their wallets wider is one of a thicket of obstacles facing communist leaders as they try to rebalance China's economy away from reliance on investment that is losing its ability to boost growth. Combined with an export boom, a flood of spending on new factories, highways and other assets powered the past decade of explosive growth. That helped China rebound quickly from the 2008 global crisis. But it was paid for with a surge in borrowing that economists warn looks like debt booms in other developing countries that spiraled into financial crises. As urgency for change mounts, so do potential hurdles. Consumer spending accounts for only about 35 percent of gross domestic product, well below neighboring India's 60 percent, and that percentage declined last year. Curbs on investment will mean less money flows to wages in construction and building materials industries such as steel and cement. "It is a pretty narrow path that policymakers have to push the economy along," said Mark Williams, chief Asia economist for Capital Economics. "The risk is that if investment spending slows too much, then that starts to undermine consumer spending and you get a downward spiral." Forecasts of this year's growth range from 7 to 8 percent, far ahead of the United States and Europe but down from China's double-digit rates of the past decade. Last year's 7.7 percent growth tied with 2012 for the weakest performance in two decades. And it hit that only after Beijing launched a mini-stimulus in mid-2013 with more spending on building new railways and other public works. The impact of a government clampdown on lending and construction is showing in slower economic activity, raising the risk of politically difficult job losses. A survey by HSBC Corp. found manufacturers cut jobs in January at their fastest rate in five years. Profits at China's biggest companies grew in December at their slowest rate in nine months. Growth in factory output and retail sales weakened, suggesting the quarter's headline growth of 7.7 percent might mask a deepening downturn. Moves to encourage consumer spending are part of a marathon effort by the Communist Party to transform China from a low-wage factory into a high-income creator of technology with self-sustaining economic growth. A broad-strokes plan issued by the party leadership in November promises to give entrepreneurs who generate most of China's new jobs and wealth more access to state-dominated industries. Regulators announced this month they will allow the creation of five privately financed banks this year. Beijing has announced plans for a dozen new free-trade zones in Shanghai and other cities with promises of easier restrictions on business. But such changes will take time to show results. "Our expectation is that there isn't going to be any national-level substantive reform within 2014," said economist Brian Jackson of IHS Global Insight. "They're going to launch small experiments." The biggest potential growth risk cited by many analysts: A rapid buildup of debt in China's government-owned banking system. China's banks avoided mortgage-related turmoil that battered Western lenders but ramped up lending under orders from Beijing to help fend off the effects of the 2008 global slowdown. The IMF and industry analysts warn they might be hit by a rise in defaults if toll roads and other projects approved in haste fail to earn enough. The central bank says debt levels are manageable but economists say the speed of the increase is a warning sign. Outstanding bank loans have swelled by the equivalent of 70 percent of China's gross domestic product over the past five years. Analysts point to countries such as Thailand that have plunged into financial crises after seeing smaller debt increases of as little as 30 percent. China "needs to contain the building of risks in the financial sector without excessively slowing growth," said the IMF chief economist, Olivier Blanchard, at a news conference this month. "This is always a very a delicate balancing act." At the same time, Beijing's effort to clamp down on credit and tighten control over informal lending that support entrepreneurs has sent shock waves through financial markets. Markets in which banks lend to each other ran short of cash twice last year, causing interest rates to spike and fueling unease about the availability of credit. "The uncertainty related to rate spikes and liquidity squeezes may affect business spending more broadly," said UBS economist Tao Wang in a report. Wages in some areas such as the manufacturing-intensive southeast are forecast to rise this year by as much as 10 percent. But workers complain gains are eaten up by rising living costs — a bad sign for government hopes for higher consumer spending. Lei Qiang, a logistics manager in Shanghai, said he and his wife have little left every month after paying for basics and save whatever they can. They plan to return to their hometown of Xi'an in western China with their 2-year-old daughter to escape Shanghai's high cost of living. "Living in Shanghai for three years, my rent went up every year by 20 to 30 percent," said Lei, 38. "That was far more than my pay rose." ___ AP researchers Zhao Liang in Beijing and Fu Ting in Shanghai contributed. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Damir SagoljAnti-government protesters push the fence before breaking into the compound of the Department of Special Investigation in Bangkok November 27, 2013. Thousands of Thai demonstrators massed outside four ministries, a major government office complex and 19 provincial halls on Wednesday in an effort to cripple the administration and oust Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra. Good morning!  It looks like it could be another interesting session. The big event overnight was the release of the Chinese PMI report, which confirmed further weakness in China's manufacturing economy, a fact that bodes ill for vulnerable emerging markets that thrive by selling commodities and other goods to China. Asian markets fared poorly. India fell 1.25%. Japan fell 2.45%. Thailand dropped 0.7%. Meanwhile, in the EM space, we're seeing currencies like the Turkish Lira, the Hungarian Forint, and the South African Rand push lower again, so that story is there. Remember, yesterday we saw a bout of central bank tightening activity, as these countries tried to stop the bleeding. But to no avail. As for European and US markets, things are fairly quiet for now. Later today we get Q4 GDP. FREE AppDownload
