© AFP/File Roslan RahmanEntrepreneurs in Singapore need just 2.5 days to open a business and 31 days to get electric powerWashington (AFP) - Small and well-run Singapore, New Zealand and Hong Kong are the world's easiest places to run a business, while global giants China, Brazil and India remain far down the list, according the World Bank. Three small but hot Pacific economies led the Bank's annual "Doing Business" report, released Wednesday, which focuses on where businesses are best helped and least hindered by government. The top 10 was filled out by Denmark, South Korea, Norway, the United States, Britain, Finland and Australia, mostly the same developed economies as in previous years. But the report, despite revisions to its methodology after upsetting China in past years, left emerging market giants far down the list, fast growth and success in drawing investment notwithstanding. China ranked 90th out of 189 countries and territories, barely improved from 93 a year ago; Brazil is 120th, also up three places; and India was ranked at 142, two spots worse than before. All three ranked lower than troubled economies and difficult investment environments like Russia and Greece. But that only underscored the admittedly narrow focus of the survey, in terms of assessing a country's success. "'Doing Business' measures a slender segment of the complex organism that any modern economy is," admitted World Bank chief economist Kaushik Basu in a forward to the report. "An economy can do poorly on 'Doing Business' indicators but do well in macroeconomic policy or social welfare interventions." The scores measure the operating environment for a business, including how easy it is to start a company, to transfer a property or resolve a commercial dispute; the time and cost of clearing imports and exports through a port; how easy is it to get an electricity connection, and other issues that face business owners in any country. - Smart regulations - By those measures, Singapore was, as in recent past years, on top with a score of 88.27, and New Zealand close behind with 86.91. The top 30 countries all had more than 74 points, while the bottom five, with isolated and authoritarian East African pariah Eritrea at the very end, all scored below 40. The contrast between the best and worst underscored why Singapore is highly praised and successful.  Entrepreneurs in the Southeast Asian island nation need just 2.5 days to open a business, 31 days to get electric power and four days and $440 to import a container. Meanwhile in Eritrea, a similar businessman would need on average 84 days to start a company and 59 days to get electricity, while importing goods takes 59 days and $2,000 per container. Basu stressed that the survey is not a measure of the level of government intervention in an economy. "A significant number of the top 30 economies in the ease of doing business ranking come from a tradition where government has had quite a prominent presence in the economy," he noted. "The top-performing economies... are therefore not those with no regulation but those in which governments have managed to create rules that facilitate interactions in the marketplace without needlessly hindering the development of the private sector." "Ultimately, 'Doing Business' is about smart regulations that only a well-functioning state can provide." "The secret of success is to have the essential rules and regulations in place -- but more importantly to have a good system of clearing decisions quickly and predictably, so that small and ordinary businesses do not feel harassed." FREE AppDownload
CNBC star Jim Cramer had a harsh assessment of Twitter CEO Dick Costolo's performance during its third quarter earnings.  "This was incoherent. I thought that Costolo was incoherent both in his interview and on the conference call. I simply had no idea what the heck he was talking about," said Cramer on TV this morning.  Cramer's words were tough, but they seemed to reflect the sentiment of at least some Twitter investors. The stock was down ~10% on the day after earnings.  We spoke with Chris Sacca, one of the biggest shareholders of Twitter, about Cramer's comments, and the company in general.  Sacca didn't necessarily disagree with Cramer's take, but he thought that anyone selling the stock based on last night's results is making a huge mistake. "I think Twitter has always had a challenge telling its own story, from the early days of the company," said Sacca. Early on, people would ask, "What's a tweet? Why should I tweet?" and Twitter management struggled to really answer that, says Sacca.  While that struggle continues today, it doesn't matter because the company is well-positioned to grow in the future, says Sacca. "As an investor, I'm excited, I know the story," he says. Flickr/Loic Le MeurChris Sacca has been an investor in Twitter, Instagram, and Uber, to name a few.Costolo tried to explain Twitter's user base with "concentric circles" as a metaphor. He said logged-in users were at the center of the circle, then logged out users that see tweets were in the next circle, and then outside of that, there were users that just saw "syndicated" tweets, or tweets that show up on sites like Business Insider, or on TV on ESPN. This was a clunky, weird metaphor that sounded off. Cramer was baffled by it. It's especially odd to hear it since Costolo is a naturally funny person. He's very likable. He studied to be an improv comedian, and when he goes off script, he's great. But he can be boxed into odd corporate speaking ticks. For instance, during the second quarter's earnings call, he said "vis-à-vis" repeatedly, which people teased him about on Twitter. Sacca blamed Costolo's sometimes stiff approach on Twitter's IPO. "I think the biggest challenge is the IPO process shoe horned them into using two metrics ... so Dick can’t be as natural and candid." BI IntelligenceTwitter, in Sacca's view, is forced to use timeline views per user and monthly average unique users as the guiding metrics to determine its success. He says bankers and lawyers chose those two metrics, and now Twitter is stuck with them.  He thinks timeline views per user is pointless because it doesn't measure anything meaningful.  He gave an example to illustrate why it's silly. In the past, to "favorite" a tweet, a user would have to click on tweet, click favorite, then click back to the timeline. That would count as three timeline views. Today, a user can favorite right in the stream, which is only one view.  Obviously, the action that leaders to fewer timeline views is better, though it looks worse in terms of timeline views.  BI IntelligenceAs for monthly active users, Sacca thinks Twitter has much bigger group of users who are ignored by the focus on logged-in monthly active users. On the earnings call, Twitter said the logged-out people that come to Twitter are 1X-2X the size of the logged in users.  Sacca says "you don't have to be a genius" to see how this group will be lucrative for Twitter. He said that people that come to Twitter are often coming from Google. He says these people are looking for celebrities, or live events. He says Twitter will be able to build valuable revenue generating products targeted at those people.  Isn't there a risk that Google-searches could lead to a Demand Media or About.com type of business? Sacca says Twitter won't be serving bad ads aimed at people looking for tutorials. He says there will be strong intent, and signals that will yield a richer ad experience.  But, backing up, he says the big picture for Twitter from his perspective goes like this: Years ago, people thought Twitter would never make money. He invested in the company then because he knew it would make money. BI Intellgence Today, it's looking at a $1.6 billion revenue run rate, but people are questioning whether or not it can gain users. He thinks that's just as silly. He says, "At this point, if you're wondering, 'How is going to be big?', if you can't wrap your mind around monthly active uniques, sell me your stock!"  This is why, Sacca has not sold a share of the stock, and he won't be selling. He's in it for the long haul, he believes in the company's potential. This may not be reassuring for other Twitter investors. Essentially, the argument boils down to this: Twitter will be a big company with lots of users making lots of money, trust me. But, it's good to see someone that's long the stock so passionately, and articulately defending the company. Sacca admits Twitter could work on communicating about its future, but he says, If I could have it one way or the other — the company has huge business and is bad at explaining at it, or it has a bad business and is good at explaining it, he'd much rather take the first option.  Here's the video of Cramer, which is worth a watch. It's rare to see a management team attacked like this on air.  FREE AppDownload
Via Donna Dotan/Urban Compass Wesley Edens, founder of the equity firm Fortress Investment Group and owner of the Milwaukee Bucks, has just put his home of 20 years on the market for $17 million, according to the New York Daily News. With over 6,000 square feet of space, the pre-war classic Upper West Side duplex has six-bedrooms, four-bathrooms, and incredible views of Central Park.  As you can expect, it's quite the exclusive home. "This is a very discreet building," Jay Glazer, one of the listing agents with Urban Compass, told the NY Daily News. "It's not your 15 Central Park West. There are only two apartments per floor so it's extremely private." Glazer and Landis Hosterman of Urban Compass are sharing the listing.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jason LeeChairman and chief executive of Alibaba Group Jack Ma at a news conference in Beijing on Jan. 19, 2011.When in doubt, it's always better to say less. Last month, the Royal Bank of Canada had to withdraw from its role as one of Alibaba's underwriters because a wealth management executive, John Taft, said too much during the IPO's quiet period, according to a report by The Wall Street Journal. His talkativeness cost the bank "millions of dollars in advisory fees from the e-commerce giant's $25 billion listing in New York," according to the report. What is particularly unfortunate about this whole situation is that Taft wasn't even involved with the IPO deal. Ouch. Originally, RBC was one of the 35 banks on the Alibaba deal. And then Taft, the head of RBC's US wealth management division, talked about the then-planned Alibaba deal during a conference call with The Institute for the Fiduciary Standard. During the phone call, he used the Alibaba deal as an example "in a discussion about proposals for a fiduciary standard for broker dealers," according to The Journal. So RBC decided to voluntarily withdraw from the IPO. For anyone unfamiliar with IPO proceedings, during an IPO's quiet period, those affiliated with the deal are legally not allowed to talk about or promote the stock. Alibaba was the largest IPO ever and gained 38% on its first day of trading. On Tuesday, the company's shares broke $100. FREE AppDownload
Justin Gmoser Business Insider's video team is hiring a Producer.The ideal candidate will be a great storyteller who can write, shoot and edit. Proficiency in Final Cut X or Adobe Premiere, After Effects, and Motion expected. Demonstrated experience with video and audio equipment including Sony and Canon DSLR cameras is also required. This producer thrives working in a team environment, often in tandem with others on field shoots and graphics-heavy branded video packages. Here are some examples of recent videos – the type we'd expect you to produce:  The Truth About The Most Interesting Man In The World 20 Tricks For Sitting At Your Desk Without Hurting Your Back  Scientists Have Debunked These 5 Common Myths About Meat And go here to see all our original videos. If you look at the world and always see stories to tell and have the tools to tell those stories in creative and uniques ways for digital video submit a brief cover letter, a link to your reel, and your resume now HERE. Business Insider offers competitive compensation packages complete with benefits. This is a full-time position. FREE AppDownload
  From the hairless Sphynx to the 30-pound Savannah, learn more about these popular exotic cats. Produced by Kamelia Angelova &amp; William Wei. Originally published in October 2013. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
There is no dispute that income inequality has been on the rise in the US for the past four decades. The share of total income earned by the top 1% of families was less than 10% in the late 1970s, but now exceeds 20% as of the end of 2012 (Piketty and Saez 2003). A large portion of this increase is due to an upsurge in the labour incomes earned by senior company executives and successful entrepreneurs. But is the rise in US economic inequality purely a matter of rising labour compensation at the top, or did wealth inequality rise as well? Before we answer that question (hint: the answer is a definitive yes, as we will demonstrate below) we need to define what we mean by wealth. Wealth is the stock of all the assets people own, including their homes, pension saving, and bank accounts, minus all debts. Wealth can be self-made out of work and saving, but it can also be inherited. Unfortunately, there is much less data available on wealth in the US than there is on income. Income tax data exists since 1913 – the first year the country collected federal income tax – but there is no comparable tax on wealth to provide information on the distribution of assets. Currently available measures of wealth inequality rely either on surveys (the Survey of Consumer Finances of the Federal Reserve Board), on estate tax return data (Kopczuk and Saez 2004), or on lists of wealthy individuals, such as the Forbes 400 list of wealthiest Americans. In our new working paper (Saez and Zucman 2014), we try to measure wealth in another way. We use comprehensive data on capital income – such as dividends, interest, rents, and business profits – that is reported on individual income tax returns since 1913. We then capitalise this income so that it matches the amount of wealth recorded in the Federal Reserve’s Flow of Funds, the national balance sheets that measure aggregate wealth of US families. In this way we obtain annual estimates of US wealth inequality stretching back a century. Wealth inequality, it turns out, has followed a spectacular U-shaped evolution over the past 100 years. From the Great Depression in the 1930s through the late 1970s there was a substantial democratisation of wealth. The trend then inverted, with the share of total household wealth owned by the top 0.1% increasing to 22% in 2012 from 7% in the late 1970s (see Figure 1). The top 0.1% includes 160,000 families with total net assets of more than $20 million in 2012. Figure 1. The return of the Roaring Twenties Saez/Zuckman  Notes: The figure plots wealth share owned by the top .1% richest families in the US from 1913 to 2012. Wealth is total assets (including real estate and funded pension wealth) net of all debts. Wealth excludes the present value of future government transfers (such as Social Security or Medicare benefits). Source: Saez and Zucman (2014). Figure 1 shows that wealth inequality has exploded in the US over the past four decades. The share of wealth held by the top 0.1% of families is now almost as high as in the late 1920s, when The Great Gatsby defined an era that rested on the inherited fortunes of the robber barons of the Gilded Age. In recent decades, only a tiny fraction of the population saw its wealth share grow. While the wealth share of the top 0.1% increased a lot in recent decades, that of the next 0.9% (families between the top 1% and the top 0.1%) did not. And the share of total wealth of the “merely rich” – families who fall in the top 10% but are not wealthy enough to be counted among the top 1% – actually decreased slightly over the past four decades. In other words, family fortunes of $20 million or more grew much faster than those of only a few millions. The flip side of these trends at the top of the wealth ladder is the erosion of wealth among the middle class and the poor. There is a widespread public view across American society that a key structural change in the US economy since the 1920s is the rise of middle-class wealth, in particular because of the development of pensions and the rise in home ownership rates. But our results show that while the share of wealth of the bottom 90% of families did gradually increase from 15% in the 1920s to a peak of 36% in the mid-1980s, it then dramatically declined. By 2012, the bottom 90% collectively owns only 23% of total US wealth, about as much as in 1940 (see Figure 2). Figure 2. The rise and fall of middle-class wealth Saez/Zucman Notes: The figure plots wealth share owned by the bottom 90% poorest families in the US from 1917 to 2012. Wealth is total assets (including real estate and funded pension wealth) net of all debts. Wealth excludes the present value of future government transfers (such as Social Security or Medicare benefits). Source: Saez and Zucman (2014). The growing indebtedness of most Americans is the main reason behind the erosion of the wealth share of the bottom 90% of families. Many middle-class families own homes and have pensions, but too many of these families also have much higher mortgages to repay and much higher consumer credit and student loans to service than before (Mian and Sufi 2014). For a time, rising indebtedness was compensated by the increase in the market value of the assets of middle-class families. The average wealth of bottom 90% of families jumped during the stock-market bubble of the late 1990s and the housing bubble of the early 2000s. But it then collapsed during and after the Great Recession of 2007–2009  (see Figure 3). Figure 3. The new wealth divide in the US  Saez/Zucman Notes: The figure depicts the average real wealth of bottom 90% of families (right y-axis) and top 1% families (left y-axis) from 1946 to 2012. The scales differ by a factor 100 to reflect the fact that top 1% of families are 100 times richer than the bottom 90% of families. Wealth is expressed in constant 2010 US dollars, using the GDP deflator. Source: Saez and Zucman (2014). Since the housing and financial crises of the late 2000s there has been no recovery in the wealth of the middle class and the poor. The average wealth of the bottom 90% of families is equal to $80,000 in 2012 – the same level as in 1986. In contrast, the average wealth for the top 1% more than tripled between 1980 and 2012. In 2012, the wealth of the top 1% increased almost back to its peak level of 2007. The Great Recession looks only like a small bump along an upward trajectory. How can we explain the growing disparity in American wealth? The answer is that the combination of higher income inequality alongside a growing disparity in the ability to save for most Americans is fuelling the explosion in wealth inequality. For the bottom 90% of families, real wage gains (after factoring in inflation) were very limited over the past three decades, but for their counterparts in the top 1% real wages grew fast. In addition, the saving rate of middle-class and lower-class families collapsed over the same period while it remained substantial at the top. Today, the top 1% families save about 35% of their income, while the bottom 90% families save about zero (Saez and Zucman 2014). If income inequality stays high and if the saving rate of the bottom 90% of families remains low then wealth disparity will keep increasing. Ten or 20 years from now, all the gains in wealth democratisation achieved during the New Deal and the post-war decades could be lost. While the rich would be extremely rich, ordinary families would own next to nothing, with debts almost as high as their assets. Paris School of Economics professor Thomas Piketty warns that inherited wealth could become the defining line between the haves and the have-nots in the 21st century (Piketty 2014). This provocative prediction hit a nerve in the US this year when Piketty’s book Capital in the 21st Century became a national best seller because it outlined a direct threat to the cherished American ideals of meritocracy and opportunity. What should be done to avoid this dystopian future? We need policies that reduce the concentration of wealth, prevent the transformation of self-made wealth into inherited fortunes, and encourage savings among the middle class. First, current preferential tax rates on capital income compared to wage income are hard to defend in light of the rise of wealth inequality and the very high savings rate of the wealthy. Second, estate taxation is the most direct tool to prevent self-made fortunes from becoming inherited wealth – the least justifiable form of inequality in the American meritocratic ideal. Progressive estate and income taxation were the key tools that reduced the concentration of wealth after the Great Depression (Piketty and Saez 2003, Kopczuk and Saez 2004). The same proven tools are needed again today. There are a number of specific policy reforms needed to rebuild middle-class wealth. A combination of prudent financial regulation to rein in predatory lending, incentives to help people save – nudges have been shown to be very effective in the case of 401(k) pensions (Thaler and Sunstein 2008) – and more generally steps to boost the wages of the bottom 90% of workers are needed so that ordinary families can afford to save. One final reform also needs to be on the policymaking agenda – the collection of better data on wealth in the US. Despite our best efforts to build wealth inequality data, we want to stress that the US is lagging behind in terms of the quality of its wealth and saving data. It would be relatively easy for the US Treasury to collect more information – in particular balances on 401(k) and bank accounts – on top of what it already collects to administer the federal income tax. This information could help enforce the collection of current taxes more effectively and would be invaluable for obtaining more precise estimates of the joint distributions of income, wealth, saving, and consumption. Such information is needed to illuminate the public debate on economic inequality. It is also required to evaluate and implement alternative forms of taxation, such as progressive wealth or consumption taxes, in order to achieve broad-based and sustainable economic growth. Kopczuk, W and E Saez (2004), “Top Wealth Shares in the United States, 1916–2000: Evidence from Estate Tax Returns”, National Tax Journal 57(2), Part 2, June: 445–487. Mian, A and A Sufi (2014), House of Debt, University of Chicago Press. Piketty, T (2014), Capital in the 21st Century, Cambridge: Harvard University Press. Piketty, T and E Saez (2003), “Income Inequality in the United States, 1913–1998”, Quarterly Journal of Economics 118(1): 1–39, series updated to 2012 online. Saez, Emmanuel and Gabriel Zucman (2014), “Wealth Inequality in the United States since 1913: Evidence from Capitalized Income Tax Data”, CEPR Discussion Paper 10227, October. Thaler, R H and C R Sunstein (2008), Nudge: Improving Decisions about Health, Wealth, and Happiness, New Haven: Yale University Press. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidTraders watched stocks go higher on Tuesday.Stocks staged a huge rally on Tuesday, with the Dow regaining the 17,000 level and the Nasdaq leading percentage gains among the major averages. The small-cap Russell 2000 was the day's biggest winner, gaining 2.6%. The rally on Wall Street came ahead of Wednesday's monetary policy announcement from the Fed, at which the Fed is expected to announce the end of its quantitative easing program. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Tuesday: 1. We got a number of pieces of economic data on Tuesday, including the Conference Board's latest Consumer Confidence survey which showed consumer confidence is at a seven-year high. The report jumped to 94.5 from 89.0 in September, marking the best reading since October 2007 and higher than the 87.0 expected by economists. "A more favorable assessment of the current job market and business conditions contributed to the improvement in consumers’ view of the present situation," said Lynn Franco of the Conference Board.  2. Two pieces of housing data came in on Tuesday, with the August S&amp;P/Case-Shiller home price index showing prices fell 0.2% month-on-month in August, but still rose 5.6% over the prior year, which was roughly in-line with expectations. Following the report, David Blitzer of S&amp;P Dow Jones Indices said, "The deceleration in home prices continues. The Sun Belt region reported its worst annual returns since 2012, led by weakness in all three California cities — Los Angeles, San Francisco and San Diego. Despite weaker year-over-year numbers, home prices are still showing an overall increase, as the National Index increased for its eight consecutive month."  3. Data released from the Census Bureau on Tuesday showed that the homeownership rate fell to 64.4% in the third quarter of this year, down 0.9% year-over-year to the lowest level since first quarter of 1995. And while the story has often been that younger Americans are not buying home anymore, older adults have abandoned home ownership at a slightly higher rate. 4. Also in economic data, durable goods orders in September fell 1.3% over the prior month, missing expectations for a rise of 0.5%, while the Richmond Fed's manufacturing index came in at 20 against expectations for a reading of 11 and up from last month's 14.  5. Among the big stock losers on Tuesday was Twitter, which fell 10% after the company last night reported results that were in-line with expectations. Following the report, analysts at RBC and Bank of America downgraded the stock, and as Business Insider's Jay Yarow wrote, overall it is clear that analysts are worried about Twitter's guidance, which suggests the social network could be looking at another weak quarter of user growth. Also in the social media sector, Facebook was expected to report earnings after the market close on Tuesday. 6. Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba broke $100 for the first time on Tuesday, but failed to close above that level as the company, which made its debut the day after the S&amp;P 500's most recent all-time high, is set for its first earnings report as a public company next week.  7. Another big equity mover was Madison Square Garden, which on Monday night announced that it would explore a plan to split itself in two, breaking into a sports and media company and an entertainment unit. Shares of the company rallied more than 10% following the announcement, which also included news that the company would add activist investor Nelson Peltz to its board of directors.  8. Wednesday is Fed Day, and Business Insider's Shane Ferro has the full preview here. Expectations are that the Fed will end its QE program on Wednesday, as the central bank has for a few meetings now signaled that if the economy continued to expand as expected, it would find the October meeting as the appropriate time to wind down this program. There has been a rash of "Fedspeak" since the Fed's September meeting, with some Fed presidents suggesting that perhaps the Fed ought to consider putting off a full wind-down of its QE program considering some of the economic weakness out of Europe and the lack of inflation, particularly in wages, in the US. Business Insider will have full coverage of the announcement, which is set for tomorrow at 2:00 pm ET.  Don't Miss: The Most Important Charts In The World »   FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA logo of Apple is seen in an illustration photo in SarajevoSAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - GT Advanced Technology Inc &lt;gtatq.pk&gt;, which struck an agreement with erstwhile partner Apple Inc &lt;aapl.o&gt; last week that allowed it to proceed with its bankruptcy, said the iPhone maker had threatened to seek damages of more than $1 billion against the company. Former stock market darling GT Advanced, once set to become the main supplier of scratch-resistant sapphire to Apple, surprised markets when it filed for Chapter 11 earlier this month. It failed to meet performance targets set out in its supply agreement with Apple, setting the stage for its failure, according to court filings. GT Advanced said in a court filing late on Monday that it needed to settle with the iPhone maker to avert a costly legal battle it might not win. "The alternative to the settlement agreement would be months, if not years, of costly, time-consuming, and distracting litigation with Apple over a wide range of contested issues, the success of which GTAT could not guarantee," the company said in a court filing late on Monday. "Apple has advised GTAT that it would assert liquidated damages claims for in excess of $1 billion against GTAT," according to the filing. Liquidated damages are awarded when a party to a contract fails to perform as promised. Apple, which has more than $100 billion in cash, was not immediately available for comment.   (Reporting by San Francisco newsroom; Editing by Steve Orlofsky) FREE AppDownload
Alex Wong/ Getty StaffOn Tuesday, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg told investors that 2015 would be a major investment year for the company.Facebook reported solid third-quarter earnings, but the stock fell after it gave poor 2015 guidance during a call. The stock is down 10% after-hours. While revenue and earnings per share were better than expected, Facebook's new CFO, David Wehner, and CEO Mark Zuckerberg both warned that 2015 would be a major "investment" year for the company. As a result, Wehner said Facebook's expenses could grow between 50% and 70% next year. Facebook plans to increase headcount and invest in advertising technology. Facebook revenue was $3.2 billion this quarter, nudging past Wall Street's expectation of $3.12 billion. Its advertising revenue was $2.96 billion, a 64% increase from the same quarter one year ago. The remaining $264 million came from payments, which is a 13% increase from the same quarter last year. Earnings per share is $0.43 versus an expected $0.40. Business Insider IntelligenceOther than that, Facebook fell exactly in line with expectations. Its monthly active users numbered 1.35 billion, a 14% increase. Mobile monthly active users totaled 1.12 billion, with daily active users totaling 864 million. Business Insider IntelligenceFacebook's mobile advertising revenue continues to grow. This quarter, mobile ad revenue was up to 66% of the company's total revenue. Last quarter it was 61%. WhatsApp's numbers are also out. WhatsApp is the $22 billion chat application Facebook recently acquired. It lost $140 million last year and generated only $10 million in revenue. However, WhatsApp has 600 million monthly active users. No new monthly user metrics for Instagram were announced, although Zuckerberg says the average global user is spending 21 minutes per day on the photo-sharing app. Zuckerberg also detailed his three-, five-, and 10-year plans for Facebook and stressed that the company was focused on the long-term. In the short-term, Facebook's goal is to continue growing and serving its communities and businesses and helping them reach full potential. That means Facebook will focus on growing things like Newsfeed, WhatsApp, and Instagram until they each connect at least 1 billion users. Zuckerberg said his first priority was helping those offshoots of Facebook reach mass scale, then aggressively monetizing them. Sandberg reiterated that Facebook would be slow to monetize video placements and Instagram. Facebook's three-year plan also includes making improvements for advertisers. Facebook is particularly focused on helping brands better target users and measure campaigns more effectively. Over the next five years, Facebook expects its popular Instagram, Search, and WhatsApp offshoots to reach 1 billion connected users. It also wants to become a developer-friendly platform that helps promote and monetize various apps across multiple devices.  Within 10 years, Facebook will strive to help build the next-generation computing platform, which Zuckerberg believes could be Oculus and augmented reality. Facebook acquired the virtual-reality headset company for more than $1 billion.  Internet.org is also part of Zuckerberg's 10-year plan. He says efforts like this are driving fundamental changes in the world that Facebook needs to achieve its overall massive-connection mission.  "We're going to prepare for the future by investing aggressively," Zuckerberg said.  "The strength of the business today is putting us in a strong position to invest in the future," Wehner added. Here's a summary of the earnings call: FREE AppDownload
YouTube / Dan RobinsonFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisers.  Could Chicago Be The Next Detroit? (AllianceBernstein) At first glance, there's a huge difference between Chicago and Detroit. While Detroit's population has dropped significantly over the years, Chicago's has been stable. However, Chicago's credit ratings "dropped sharply" over the last year because of finances, writes Michael Brooks. "Chicago has spent beyond its means and hasn't provided enough funding for its pension obligations. As a result, the city requires a dramatic increase in funding. When combined with debt service and other fixed costs, pension costs would take up 40% of Chicago's budget," argues Brooks. "Addressing the resulting hole in the budget will be difficult and controversial, and bankruptcy may even be raised as an option, although we doubt it will go that far," he said. Investors may be inclined to sell because of Chicago's problems, but AllianceBernstein analysts believe that this should not "shake investor confidence in the overall health of the municipal market." Investors Should Check Out Riskier Options Because Interest Rates Might Stay Low  (BlackRock Blog) "...while I do expect long-term rates in the United States to climb modestly in the near future, interest rates are likely to remain historically low for an extended period of time," argues Ross Koesterich.  Three factors might be responsible for the on-going low interest rates: First, the combination of slow growth and no inflation. Second, the changing demographics — and specifically the increased proportion of older people. And third, the supply and demand forces acting on the bond market. The continued low-interest rates, "particularly at a time when, as the baby boom retires, more and more investors are looking for income," means that investors are going to need to look for income from alternative sources. Specifically, Koesterich suggests looking at riskier options, and "esoteric parts of the bond market." Widows And Widowers Can't Claim Uncollected Benefits (Investment News) Clients can file for and suspend their retirement benefits up to age 70 in order to collect benefits worth 132% of their retirement. Unfortunately, some clients die before they get the opportunity to collect benefits. There are two options here, writes Mary Beth Franklin. Clients can cash out early and receive benefits paid as a lump sum back to the date of suspension instead of getting received benefits. However, if they die without doing so, then their widow or widower cannot collect the benefits. Instead, they are eligible for survivor benefits worth 100% of what the late spouse was entitled to at the time of death, "including any delayed retirement credits," writes Franklin. Advisors Need A Clearly Established Timeline When Selling Their Firm (Financial Planning) Advisors should clearly define the ownership via a buy/sell agreement, or with "a partnership track that outlines the hurdles that the junior associate must clear to attain partnership in the practice," argues Matt Matrisian.  Additionally, there should be a clearly established timeline for transition and ownership. The transition should be broken down into three categories: clients, management and ownership. And if things get rocky, an external transition specialist can be consulted to help ease the transition. The Asset Management Industry Suffered A Huge Setback After BlackRock's Proposal Was Rejected (The Wall Street Journal)  BlackRock was hoping to launch a new product known as a "nontransparent ETF", which would have kept its holdings hidden from investors. "This new product was part of the industry's attempt to broaden its customer base beyond traditional index-tracking investments by selling more funds that are actively managed," reports Daisy Maxey.  The SEC was uncomfortable with the "nontransparent ETF" because the lack of transparency would result in "undue risk for investors." FREE AppDownload
For nine years in a row, Apple has been the most innovative company on the planet.  That designation comes care of Boston Consulting Group, the elite consultancy.  Since last year's list, Google climbed over Samsung to take the second spot, sliding the South Korean manufacturer into third.  Three companies vaulted into the top 50: The Japanese conglomerate Hitachi landed at No. 37, Marc Benioff's SalesForce.com landed at No. 40, and the Chinese phone maker Xiaomi made it all the way to No. 35.  Automobiles saw the biggest drop-off of any industry. A full 14 made the 2013 list, and that number fell to just nine this year.  Every year since 2005, the firm has surveyed more than 1,500 senior global executives for a snapshot of the most innovative companies in the world. Each executive is asked to rate the companies in their industry by how innovative they are, and those results are then weighted to reflect three-year shareholder growth, revenue growth, and margin growth. Here are this year's 50 most innovative companies: Boston Consulting Group FREE AppDownload
Author and writer Susan Blumberg-Kason has been interested in Hong Kong since an early age, when she dreamed of the the neon streets and double-decker buses. She soon moved there to study and married a Chinese man. The memoir about her experiences, "Good Chinese Wife," came out this year. While in Hong Kong, Blumberg-Kason took photographs to document her surroundings. Later, when sifting through her many shots, she realized how closely they mirrored photographs taken in Hong Kong by her parents 50 years before. Blumberg-Kason had shared both her own photographs, taken in 2012, and her parents' photographs from 1962, which give parallel views of a city that has grown exponentially. In those 50 years, Hong Kong Island and the surrounding areas saw tons of new construction and a massive influx in population. FREE AppDownload
Fun fact: the New York Knicks are owned by a publicly-traded company. News: The Madison Square Garden company, which owns the New York Knicks, New York Rangers, and Madison Square Garden, among other assets, is thinking about breaking itself into two separate companies.  In an announcement late Monday night, MSG said its board approved a plan to explore a possible spin-off that would split its entertainment and sports &amp; media businesses into two publicly traded companies.  In late afternoon trade on Tuesday, shares of MSG — which has a market cap of about $5.5 billion — were up more than 10%.  Under MSG's announced proposal, the entertainment company would include:  And the sports and media company would include: MSG also announced that activist investor Nelson Peltz, who runs Trian Fund Management, would join the company's board.  And according to The Wall Street Journal, which cites a person familiar with the matter, James Dolan, MSG's chairman, asked Peltz to join the board, "as the company readied its future plan."  Peltz does not own a stake in MSG, the Journal added.  MSG also added Scott Sperling, co-president of PE firm Thomas H. Lee partners to its board.  The company said the spin-off would be structured as a tax-free transaction for existing shareholders, and is a split the company has been considering since July. In a statement, Tad Smith, CEO of MSG said: "We are exploring the opportunity to improve upon the excellent shareholder return created since MSG's spin-off over four years ago by separating our business into two companies, each with its own distinct value proposition for investors... The first company would capitalize on significant opportunities to grow rapidly within the changing entertainment landscape. The second would enjoy steady growth and high cash flow that we expect will result in capital returns to shareholders." MSG also said it would repurchase $500 million worth its stock.  The announcement from MSG comes at the very beginning of the NHL season and just ahead of Tuesday's start of the NBA season. The value of NBA franchises, and the league as a whole, has skyrocketed in the last year, with the Los Angeles Clippers selling for a record $2 billion in August to former Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer, while the league just signed a lucrative new television deal worth more than $2 billion annually.  Here's the chart showing Tuesday's pop in Madison Square Garden shares.  Google Finance FREE AppDownload
Coach shares dropped more than 6% Tuesday after the company reported a disappointing decline in first quarter sales. North American sales plunged 19% and international sales rose just 4%. The company also reported a 9.6% decline in third quarter revenue to $1 billion. Here's why the company is in trouble: 1. Coach's core business in North America — the sale of women's handbags and accessories — is failing.  "For both the quarter and the year, our women's handbag and accessory business was challenged, facing both increased competition and intensified promotional activity," Coach CEO Victor Luis said on a call with analysts in August.  2. The company just posted its slowest quarterly sales growth in China in two years.  China sales grew 10% in the first quarter, down from 20% in the previous quarter. The company has been counting on China to offset its losses in North America. Meanwhile, sales in Japan dropped 12% over last year, marking the eighth straight quarter of declines. "There’s some concern about the slowdown in China, as well as the Japan business, which continues to get weaker," Brian Yarbrough, an analyst with Edward Jones &amp; Co., told Bloomberg. 3. The company cannibalized its more upscale, full-price products by aggressively expanding its discount outlets. Industry expert Robin Lewis estimates that Coach gets about 70% of its revenues from discount stores.  "Once a brand is declared as too accessible and overexposed by its loyal customers, no amount of fashion trickery will bring it back," Lewis writes on his blog.  Coach has reduced its frequency of discounts at full-price stores in an effort to restore the brand's value. FREE AppDownload
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Hedge fund manager Jim Chanos, the prominent short-seller, said Tuesday he has lightened up on some of his bets against Brazil, saying most of the country's downside risk is priced in after the sharp selloff over the past two months. "Yes, we are still short but we've taken some profits," Chanos said, speaking at a Reuters summit. "I think we'd be crazy not to." Brazilian stocks have been hammered over worries about the country's presidential election, which incumbent Dilma Rousseff narrowly won on Sunday. Her victory sent shares plunging as investors fretted about the leftist president. Brazil's benchmark Bovespa stock index has slid more than 18 percent from early September through its close on Monday. The index is heavily weighted toward miner Vale and state-run oil company Petrobras. "I think a lot of it is priced in already now" in Latin America's biggest economy, he said to Reuters. "I wouldn't be jumping wholeheartedly into the Brazil (short) trade here," he said. Nevertheless, he added that he remains short on "a lot of things in Brazil." Chanos, who specializes in making money when stock prices decline and first cemented his reputation as a short seller with bets against Enron, is the founder of Kynikos Associates. Chanos has previously spoken about shorting Petrobras and Vale. Both stocks fell sharply on Monday, the first trading day after Rousseff's victory. Petrobras, which has also been hurt by a corruption scandal and falling global oil prices, dropped 12 percent on Monday. On Tuesday, those shares were last up 3 percent. Vale, which exports heavily to China, saw its shares fall about 4 percent on Monday. On Tuesday, its shares were last down 0.1 percent. The Bovespa stock index was last up 2.35 percent on Tuesday. FREE AppDownload
Gluskin Sheff's David Rosenberg isn't rattled by the recent volatility in the financial markets. "For stocks, it always comes down to the Fed and the economy," Rosenberg said to Business Insider. "The reality is that bear markets do not just pop out of the air," he wrote. "They are caused by tight money, recessions, or both. These conditions do not apply, nor will they until 2016 at the earliest." We recently asked Rosenberg for what he considered to be the Most Important Chart In The World. He sent us this annotated chart of the year-over-year percent change in the S&amp;P 500. As you can see, the big plunges indeed came during recessions and monetary tightening cycles. Based on the trends in the Conference Board's Leading Economic Index, a recession is "at least two years away," Rosenberg said. "That is one peg — the expansion being sustained. The other is the Fed policy, and any actual rate hikes now seem to be more of a 2015 than a 2016 story." The Federal Reserve concludes its two-day Federal Open Market Committee meeting on Wednesday, at which point we may get some clues regarding the timing of the Fed's first rate hike. For now, all we know is it's a considerable ways off. Gluskin Sheff FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidTraders watched stocks go higher on Tuesday.Stocks staged a huge rally on Tuesday, with the Dow regaining the 17,000 level and the Nasdaq leading percentage gains among the major averages. The small-cap Russell 2000 was the day's biggest winner, gaining 2.6%. The rally on Wall Street came ahead of Wednesday's monetary policy announcement from the Fed, at which the Fed is expected to announce the end of its quantitative easing program. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Tuesday: 1. We got a number of pieces of economic data on Tuesday, including the Conference Board's latest Consumer Confidence survey which showed consumer confidence is at a seven-year high. The report jumped to 94.5 from 89.0 in September, marking the best reading since October 2007 and higher than the 87.0 expected by economists. "A more favorable assessment of the current job market and business conditions contributed to the improvement in consumers’ view of the present situation," said Lynn Franco of the Conference Board.  2. Two pieces of housing data came in on Tuesday, with the August S&amp;P/Case-Shiller home price index showing prices fell 0.2% month-on-month in August, but still rose 5.6% over the prior year, which was roughly in-line with expectations. Following the report, David Blitzer of S&amp;P Dow Jones Indices said, "The deceleration in home prices continues. The Sun Belt region reported its worst annual returns since 2012, led by weakness in all three California cities — Los Angeles, San Francisco and San Diego. Despite weaker year-over-year numbers, home prices are still showing an overall increase, as the National Index increased for its eight consecutive month."  3. Data released from the Census Bureau on Tuesday showed that the homeownership rate fell to 64.4% in the third quarter of this year, down 0.9% year-over-year to the lowest level since first quarter of 1995. And while the story has often been that younger Americans are not buying home anymore, older adults have abandoned home ownership at a slightly higher rate. 4. Also in economic data, durable goods orders in September fell 1.3% over the prior month, missing expectations for a rise of 0.5%, while the Richmond Fed's manufacturing index came in at 20 against expectations for a reading of 11 and up from last month's 14.  5. Among the big stock losers on Tuesday was Twitter, which fell 10% after the company last night reported results that were in-line with expectations. Following the report, analysts at RBC and Bank of America downgraded the stock, and as Business Insider's Jay Yarow wrote, overall it is clear that analysts are worried about Twitter's guidance, which suggests the social network could be looking at another weak quarter of user growth. Also in the social media sector, Facebook was expected to report earnings after the market close on Tuesday. 6. Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba broke $100 for the first time on Tuesday, but failed to close above that level as the company, which made its debut the day after the S&amp;P 500's most recent all-time high, is set for its first earnings report as a public company next week.  7. Another big equity mover was Madison Square Garden, which on Monday night announced that it would explore a plan to split itself in two, breaking into a sports and media company and an entertainment unit. Shares of the company rallied more than 10% following the announcement, which also included news that the company would add activist investor Nelson Peltz to its board of directors.  8. Wednesday is Fed Day, and Business Insider's Shane Ferro has the full preview here. Expectations are that the Fed will end its QE program on Wednesday, as the central bank has for a few meetings now signaled that if the economy continued to expand as expected, it would find the October meeting as the appropriate time to wind down this program. There has been a rash of "Fedspeak" since the Fed's September meeting, with some Fed presidents suggesting that perhaps the Fed ought to consider putting off a full wind-down of its QE program considering some of the economic weakness out of Europe and the lack of inflation, particularly in wages, in the US. Business Insider will have full coverage of the announcement, which is set for tomorrow at 2:00 pm ET.  Don't Miss: The Most Important Charts In The World »   FREE AppDownload
Maurizio Tagliavia waits for the helicopter to land while holding champagne at the Villa Del Quar, near Verona April 15, 2014.As the expression goes: tis the season to be jolly. And that certainly rings true for Wall Streeters, who are expecting fantastic bonuses this season. Over three-quarters of Wall Streeters expect a bonus this year, according to eFinancialCareer's latest Bonus Expectations Survey. And of those, 60% percent are expecting the bonuses to increase. Not bad. These numbers are significant jumps from last year. Only 59% expected a bonus last year, and of those only 42% expected an increase. "Money is important for a significant proportion of survey respondents: nearly half of respondents (45%) say that compensation is the most important reason in their decision to work in the financial services industry, and the majority (56%) would not be open to a reduced bonus in exchange for additional benefits," the report states. Survey respondents are split on whether this major bonus bump is a longer trend at firms, or just happening this year.  Regardless, this season's looking really good. If you're interested in the breakdowns, here's eFinancialCareer's survey results: eFinancialCareers FREE AppDownload
Justin Sullivan/Getty Images, Bing MapsMichael Dell has a waterfront Hawaiian mansion worth $58 million.Everyone needs to take a vacation every once in awhile.  But "vacation" means something a little different when you're a tech millionaire or billionaire.  From massive island retreats to private superyachts, these tech executives' second homes take luxury vacations to the next level.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Fred Prouser In afternoon trade on Tuesday, shares of the upscale accessories maker were down more than 6% after the company reported sales on Tuesday morning that fell 10% from the prior year. Including Tuesday's sell off, the stock is down nearly 40% this year. For its fiscal first quarter, Coach reported that sales fell 10% from the prior year to $1.04 billion. Earnings in the third quarter, excluding certain items, of $0.53 per share, down from $0.77. Both of these, however, beat expectations, but despite the lowered expectations, it seems that investors have grown weary of declining sales and falling margins. In the third quarter, Coach's operating margin fell to 20.9% from 27.9% the prior year, while gross margin also fell to 69.3% from 71.8% a year ago.  In a statement, Coach CEO Victor Luis said, “Our first quarter results were in line with our expectations and our annual guidance, as continued international growth was offset by our North American handbag business where we have strategically reduced promotional events... While we recognize that our many initiatives will take time to be evidenced in our financial results, our performance to date has been on plan, and we are confident we have the creative direction, team and resources to execute our brand transformation." On Twitter, Rob Wilson of Tiburon Research, outlined some thoughts on why investors might be bailing on Coach and their flagging brand transformation plan. $COH #1: Hard to believe North Amer 2-yr comp sales 'stack' decline from -19% in Q4 to -31% in Q1 and believe any success with new product.  $COH #2: Mgmt suspiciously quiet re: beneficial GPM% impact via mix shift. COH enjoys +1,400 Bps higher GPM% international vs. North Amer.  $COH #3: COH quietly began disclosing qtr GPM% by location (North Amer vs. Intl) in fiscal Q2 10-Q filing last year. Doubt many know this.  $COH #4: Cracks me up when mgmt teams suggest lowering EBIT% from 33% to 18% over 3 yrs will allow company to "return to growth" in year 4.  Here's the ugly chart of Coach's year-to-date performance, which has significantly lagged the XRT ETF that tracks the retail sector.  Google Finance FREE AppDownload
US CensusHomeownership rates are tumbling.  According to new Census data, the homeownership rate fell to 64.4% in the third quarter, down 0.9% year-over-year. This is the lowest level since the first quarter of 1995. While this is a secular trend that's often blamed on young people, who are flocking to cities and eschewing (or at least putting off) homeownership at a greater rate than their parents, older adults have actually abandoned owning homes at a slightly greater rate. In the first quarter of 2008, nearly 67% of people aged 35-44 owned homes. Now the number is barely above 59%. The percentage of people under 35 owning homes only fell five percentage points, to 36% from 41%. In more bad housing news, the S&amp;P/Case-Shiller home price index out this morning showed the home prices fell 0.15% month-over-month in August. FREE AppDownload
U.S. News &amp; World Report released their inaugural "Best Global Universities Ranking" on Tuesday, naming Harvard University the best school in the world. U.S. News is known for their national universities and liberal arts college rankings, which this year named Princeton University and Williams College as the top schools in America. Harvard ranked second on the national universities list. As The Washington Post points out, it's a little odd for U.S. News to have Princeton at the top of their national universities list, but only ranked 13 for global universities. For their new ranking, U.S. News emphasized research prowess and global reputation, while omitting factors such as undergraduate admissions data and graduation rates that play a part in determining their national lists. "This is about faculty productivity and prestige ... It is meaningful for certain things and not necessarily meaningful for other things. We get that. This is about big muscular research universities doing what research universities claim is their mission," U.S. News Editor Brian Kelly told The Washington Post. Here are the top 2o universities in the world, according to U.S. News &amp; World Report: 1. Harvard University 2. Massachusetts Institute of Technology 3. University of California, Berkeley 4. Stanford University 5. University of Oxford (United Kingdom) 6. University of Cambridge (United Kingdom) 7. California Institute of Technology 8. University of California, Los Angeles 9, University of Chicago 10. Columbia University 11. Johns Hopkins University 12. Imperial College London (United Kingdom) 13. Princeton University 14. University of Michigan 14. University of Toronto (Canada) 14. University of Washington 17. Yale University 18. University of California, San Diego 19. University of Pennsylvania 20. Duke University FREE AppDownload
Flickr/IBM/ibmphoto24IBM CEO Ginni RomettyIBM on Tuesday said its board approved a $5 billion share buyback in addition to the $1.4 billion remaining from its existing program. In its quarterly earnings, announced early last week, the company said it was planning to request an additional repurchase authorization. And on Tuesday the company said that at its April board meeting, it expects to request an additional share repurchase authorization.  In a statement Tuesday, IBM CEO Ginni Rometty said, "We will continue to make the investments and changes necessary to manage our business for the long term and to shift to higher-value offerings. At the same time we remain fully committed to returning significant value to shareholders." IBM spent $13.5 billion to repurchase stock in the first nine months of the year, more than double its net income. The company has been criticized for pursuing buybacks at the expense of investment in new technology, including by hedge fund manager Stanley Druckenmiller.  Back in July, Druckenmiller called IBM's penchant for engaging in financial engineering rather than investing in its business made it the "poster child" for some of the corporate behavior that companies have engaged in since the financial crisis.  And in its quarterly earnings report, IBM didn't make it seem like things would get too much better. In its earnings announcement, Rometty said, "We saw a marked slowdown in September in client buying behavior, and our results also point to the unprecedented pace of change in our industry."  In the third quarter, IBM's revenue fell 4%.  IBM shares fell about 7% after the company's earnings disappointed, and year-to-date, shares of the Dow member are down more than 13%.  (Writing from Reuters by Anya George Tharakan; Editing by Tresa Sherin Morera) FREE AppDownload
So this is apparently a thing...  Swedish sex toy company LELO is marketing a new product "exclusively for bankers." That's right, it's for bankers only. Here's why, from the company: "Many bankers want more from their profession and their investments; they also want more from their intimate investments. The new PINO™ will be the first sex toy in history that can satisfy the hedonistic sexual cravings and excesses exhibited by members of the financial world."  We're not sure what exactly makes this product so special for the investment banker, aside from the fact that, according to this description, the PINO gift set comes with a pair of silver cufflinks and a money clip.  We don't know what the cufflinks look like, but wouldn't that be embarrassing if you were wearing them and someone else at your firm recognized where they came from? The PINO launches on November 4th and it retails for $159. Right now, they're offering sign ups to win a free PINO gift set on their website. It looks like you don't really have to be a banker...  Lelo FREE AppDownload
Something strange happened early Tuesday morning when Tesla CEO Elon Musk tweeted a response to a Wall Street Journal article that raised some questions about Tesla sales. The WSJ story was about a new Tesla leasing deal, but reporters Mark Ramsey and John D. Stoll also noted that Tesla's U.S. sales, at 10,335 vehicles, are down 26% through September, compared with the same period in 2013. For what it's worth, at the beginning of September, TheStreet tabulated exactly the same percentage decline for just the first half of 2014 The WSJ also cited WardsAuto data that indicates the sales decline occurred even as Tesla production has increased 10% since the beginning of the year. And the WSJ quoted a WardsAuto analysts who said that the drop in Tesla sales could be chalked up to "temporarily satiated" demand for the "niche" Model S. But Musk took to Twitter to disagree — September sales are up 65%, he tweeted. Tesla sales for September 2014 have been estimated at 2,500, a big month for the carmaker. September 2013 sales likely came in around 1,500 which was consistent with Tesla's sales pace for the year. Article in @WSJ re Tesla sales is incorrect. September was a record high WW and up 65% year-over-year in North America. Tesla reports earnings for the third quarter next month, so we should get more clarity on these issues, as Musk is typically forthcoming with analysts when asked about sales and production data. But here's where the weird stuff comes in. Tesla Model S production is behind where it might have been at this point because the company shut down production at its Fremont, Calif. factory for two weeks to retool the assembly line to build the Model X SUV, due out next year. Tesla has acknowledged this — the carmaker anticipates that it will deliver about 2,000 fewer cars in the third quarter than it would have without the shutdown (this Forbes post breaks down the numbers). Tesla takes a $2,500 deposit for every Model S that a customer orders for sale or lease. At the moment, you have to wait until December to get your car, if you order it today. When Tesla delivers the car, they book the sale (in the case of the lease, it books the revenue all at once, by the way, as Tesla is paid in full by a bank that manages the payments). And even though the company should produce a bit more than 26,000 Model S sedans through the third quarter, it won't be able to deliver them all. These numbers, by the way, are for all Tesla production, some of which is destined for other markets, such as Europe and Asia. Overall, Tesla is aiming to sell 35,000 Model S's in 2014. The WSJ reports that half of those sales should be in the U.S. — and that this could create a problem: "Tesla would have to sell about 17,500 models in the U.S. At its current sales pace, the auto maker will miss that target by a wide margin—and will have to double its sales pace to hit its goal." However, if you review the numbers on a quarter-by-quarter basis and look ahead to the end of the year, Tesla has said it can deliver 6,600 cars by the end of the year. So in the U.S., Tesla could conceivably miss its 2014 sales goal by several thousand cars. But the point is that even if Tesla does miss its U.S. sales target, it should still be able to produce the cars. And because they're pre-ordered, the car deliveries will come in the first quarter of 2015. Tesla's sales pace actually seems fine, as long as Tesla continues to sell cars at a rate that mirrors a 2014 monthly production output of around 700 cars (and that's supposed to increase next year). Ultimately, this looks more like an accounting debate embedded in a story about leasing — not a verdict on whether Tesla can build and sell its cars. But what about flagging demand? Musk actually addressed this issue directly, during Tesla's second-quarter earnings call. He's worried about demand, but not in the way one might think — as he told Goldman Sachs' Patrick Archaumbault: Tesla doesn't really seem to be having any trouble finding people who want to buy its cars. The trouble is more with being able to produce and deliver the cars on a schedule that matches what a customer might expect from an established automaker.  As for the car being a "niche" product, no one disputes that. The Model S is a $100,000 luxury sedan. Its contribution to Tesla's sales could flatten at some point, but that's why Musk wants to bring a cheaper, mass-market car — the Model 3 — to market by 2017.  There is a theory that Model S demand is tapped out domestically and that Tesla has been looking to markets outside the U.S. to find new customers. But doing that makes good business sense, if you look at the Model S as a luxury car and incorporate robust estimates for new-market growth in that segment. General Motors is trying to capitalize on this with Cadillac in China, and Ford is reviving its Lincoln brand largely to have a luxury product to sell in the Middle Kingdom.  It goes without saying that all the European luxury carmakers — Mercedes, BMW, Porsche, Ferrari — are all eyeing developing markets, as well. The little dustup between Musk and Journal does highlight two things.  First, it's difficult to sort out what's really going on with Tesla because the carmaker doesn't act like other auto companies, reporting sales on a monthly basis.  Second, because Tesla only has one production facility, any changes to the assembly line will send ripples through the startup's system. Customers should understand this. You could say that there's even a third issue: Everyone is watching Tesla's — and Musk's — every move. The upcoming earnings call is going to be interesting, unless Musk jumps in and provides more detail, either on the Tesla blog or Twitter, a platform he's clearly mastered.  FREE AppDownload
Flickr/freeloosedirtHome prices are declining. Month-over-month, home prices fell 0.15% in August according to Tuesday's S&amp;P/Case-Shiller report. Additionally, the year-over-year growth rate slipped to 5.6% from 6.7%. These are all reflective of what may be a maturing housing recovery. But all hope isn't lost just yet. "September figures for housing starts, permits and sales of existing homes were all up," the Case-Shiller report states. "Continued labor market gains, low interest rates, and slower increases in home prices could support further improvements in housing,"  Mortgage rates recently fell to a 16-month low, which may encourage more prospective buyers to pull the trigger on a home. Still. 12 out of the 20 cities ranked by Case-Shiller saw a month-over-month decline in August. We've ranked these cities in order to show which housing markets saw price drops in the last month. FREE AppDownload
Gilead Sciences (GILD) is set to report earnings for its 3rd quarter of 2014 after the market closes on Tuesday October 28. At the beginning of this year Gilead began selling its new treatment for Hepatitis C, Sovaldi, in one of the most successful drug launches of all time. In the first 6 months of the year alone Gilead sold over $5 billion worth of Sovaldi, making it the fastest drug to ever reach blockbuster sales status (more than $1 billion). It’s on such a trajectory that it could even become the top selling medication of the year in its first year available. Sovaldi sells for $1000 a pill and helped push Gilead to a colossal earnings beat last quarter. After the close today analysts will be looking to see a strong follow through from Sovaldi, but will also be eager to hear from management about the progress of Gilead’s second generation Hepatitis C drug, Harvoni.   Harvoni is a medication that combines Sovaldi with ledipasvir, another drug made by Gilead. Like Sovaldi, Harvoni does not come cheap. A 12 week treatment program runs about $95,000. That’s slightly more than the cost of Sovaldi over the same period, but Sovaldi can not used independently. Harvoni provides a cheaper combined treatment than the options which previously existed for Sovaldi. Gilead just won an FDA approval to sell Harvoni earlier this month, so it won’t show up in Q3 earnings. But investors will be looking to management to give a projection on Harvoni and estimate how successful they believe the new substance will be. In the meantime, Sovaldi should have plenty of wind in its sails to carry the company through 3rd quarter earnings.  According to the World Health Organization, roughly 3% of the world’s population is living with the Hepatitis C infection. That’s why it’s no surprise that Sovaldi has been so successful. Last quarter there was a large range of estimates for Gilead onEstimize, signaling uncertainty among investors. Gilead came out and ripped the cover off the ball reporting earnings of $2.36 per share compared to the Estimize consensus of $1.94 while Wall Street was forecasting $1.80.  For the third quarter we are seeing an even larger range of estimates as displayed by the blue box above. That means that investors disagree about whether or not Sovaldi can continue pushing Gilead’s earnings higher or if profits will stumble. One of the interesting things about Gilead is that before the launch of its Hepatitis C drugs revenue growth was hovering around 15% on a year over year basis. On its 2 most recent quarters the pharmaceutical company recorded sales growth of 97% and 146% respectively. This quarter contributing analysts on Estimize except Gilead to up the pace and increase sales by a staggering 159% compared to the same quarter of last year. Before the launch of Sovaldi profits at Gilead were stable near 50 cents per share each quarter. Since the launch of Sovaldi at the start of the year those numbers have been launched into orbit. This quarter the Estimize community has come to a consensus expectation for Gilead to come 1 penny shy of quadrupling its earnings from the third quarter of last year. Much like Facebook which also reports after the close today, Gilead Sciences is a hot stock with sky high expectations to live up to. Sovaldi should net the company huge profits this quarter, and we should learn from management what type of impact to expect from Harvoni over the next 3 months. FREE AppDownload
Revenge of the Nerds, screenshotTalk about revenge of the nerds. Wall Street senior cybersecurity executives are going to see their salaries skyrocket following numerous cyber-attacks on financial firms, according to a Bloomberg report. Five years ago, senior cybersecurity executives earned "only" $200,000 to $500,000. Now, they can pull in over $2 million, Jeanne Branthover at Boyden Global Executive Search Ltd. told Bloomberg. The recent string of cyber-attacks (most notably the one on JP Morgan) showed that there are huge cracks in financial firms' security systems. However, unfortunately for banks, there are very few people who know the ins-and-outs of cyber-security. As a result, Wall Street firms are starting offer loads of money to attract the top talent in computer security. “You have to find people who think like hackers who have come onto the good side,” said Sameer Sait, head of information security at Springfield-based Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Co. “The cost of getting those folks has skyrocketed.” Some firms are even trying to poach talent from competitors. They're offering raises of 20-50%, Rober Iommazzo told Bloomberg. And if the higher pay weren't enough, cyber-security executives are now "gaining stature within banks" according to Bloomberg. They're no longer "relegated to back-office" work, but rather they now hold "prominent roles." FREE AppDownload
Instagram/@stanfordbusinessOne of the hottest debates among young Wall Streeters involves six letters — MBA or CFA. We've looked at it from the perspective of recruiters, comparing compensation and time spent getting each accreditation, but nothing beats hearing it straight from the horse's mouth. We reached out to sources who hold either CFA charters or MBA degrees to find out what makes one better than the other. In this particular story, we're presenting the MBA case.  Agree to disagree if you want. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersSchenck CFO of E.ON attends company's annual news conference in DuesseldorfFRANKFURT (Reuters) - Deutsche Bank  will name Marcus Schenck, former finance chief at energy firm E.ON  and now investment banker at Goldman Sachs, as chief financial officer, replacing Stefan Krause, according to a report in the online edition of Manager Magazin. Krause, who joined Deutsche Bank from luxury auto maker BMW  in 2008, will take on a new role at Germany's flagship lender, leading a division called strategy and operational excellence, Manager Magazine said in the summary of an article. Deutsche Bank declined to comment.  (Reporting by Thomas Atkins; Editing by Christoph Steitz) FREE AppDownload
We all get stressed, it's part of life. But too much stress can lead to really bad things. Produced By Matt Johnston. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
What's old is new again. In a recent interview with Glenn Beck, entrepreneur Peter Thiel had some surprisingly positive things to say about the gold standard and how it related to innovation in tech. This comes as a surprise, as Thiel cofounded the online payments system PayPal. From the interview (emphasis ours): Where we’ve had progress in the world of bits but not in the world of atoms, and this world of bits, we’ve had progress in computers, internet, mobile internet. Technology just means information technology. It’s all about bits, but the world of atoms, space travel, energy like nuclear power, biotech, new medical devices, that’s been much slower, and there’s been much less progress in those areas in the last 40 years. … One’s been regulated, the other has not, but we’ve had this sort of dualistic world where the virtual world of bits has been growing very fast, but the real world of atoms has been kind of stagnant. And I think there’s a strange counterpoint where the same thing happened with our currency, where the real value of money became separate from the virtual in August of '71 when we went off the gold standard. And so, you know, whatever you think of the gold standard, it had the virtue of connecting the real with the virtual. So I think there’s nothing wrong with cyberspace or computers or anything, but it’s when it becomes separated from the real that it’s bad. And these successful companies have actually been the ones that somehow connected it. Facebook succeeded because it was about real people having a presence on the internet. There were all these other social networking sites people had, but they were all about fictional people. One of my friends started a company in 1997, seven years before Facebook, called SocialNet. And they had all these ideas, and you could be like a cat, and I’d be a dog on the internet, and we’d have this virtual reality, and we would just not be ourselves. That didn’t work because reality always works better than any fake version of it.  The problem, of course, with connecting the real and the abstract when it comes to the money supply of entire economies is that sometimes it's helpful for the central bank to be able to expand the money supply, which is hard to do when you define it based on how many blocks of gold are sitting in the basement of a government building. Twitter had some interesting perspectives on this, particularly from hedge fund manager Mark Dow: In order to remove any doubt cc: @Noahpinion RT @shaneferro: Peter Thiel praises the gold standard https://t.co/E4tN9nXuRz @cthorm @Noahpinion @shaneferro his whole framework has been wrong @cthorm @Noahpinion @shaneferro I should've said "macro framework" Warm the cockles of Churchill's heart. MT @hblodget: O for goodness sake RT @shaneferro: Thiel praises gold standard https://t.co/t2IU9f0UC9 'Finally, something with *real* value. Enough of this virtual nonsense.' [Holds rock in hand] (via Jim Pethokoukis) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jonathan ErnstU.S. Federal Reserve building in Washington.In the dark days of 2008 following the collapse of Lehman Brothers it looked to many like the global economy was facing an economic collapse on a scale not seen before in living memory. In November of that year the Federal Reserve undertook its first round of unorthodox policy in the form of large scale asset purchases, commonly called Quantitative Easing (QE), in an effort to avert that disaster. Six years later the Fed appears to have succeeded in preventing the Great Recession from becoming another Great Depression and the central bank is now poised to halt additional QE purchases. Here's how Quantitative Easing helped change the nature of central banking: The Fed has seen its balance sheet swell from $900 billion in September 2o08 to around $4.5 trillion in October 2014.  FRED This has predominantly been due to purchases of US treasury securities and mortgage-backed securities (MBS). Over time the QE program has fundamentally changed not only the size but also the make-up of the Fed's balance sheet. Federal Reserve/Business Insider It has also meant that the Fed plays a huge role in the markets that it targets. By 2013 Fed holdings accounted for over 20% of both the Treasury and the MBS markets. Federal Reserve Research from the Fed network has suggested that asset purchases helped lower mortgage interest rates,  reduce corporate and government borrowing costs and prevented widespread corporate bankruptcies in the early stages of the crisis. Federal ReserveImpact of purchases on mortgage and MBS interest rates. In launching QE3 Ben Bernanke was also keen to tie the success of the program to the unemployment rate, which stood at 8.1% at the time. Since then it has fallen to 5.9% — a level that many economists consider close to full employment. FRED However, the QE program has not been without its critics — though fears that asset purchases would stoke runaway inflation and currency debasement have proven way off the mark with consumer price inflation still below 2%. FRED Concern now is focused on the potential impact of QE withdrawal with the Fed looking set to end the third round of purchases this week. As Nomura pointed out in a recent note "financial conditions have tightened somewhat and, if this persists, could be a modest drag on the outlook." With falling oil prices providing a downside risk to the Fed's inflation target it is highly likely that they will maintain a cautious stance and could reiterate that rates will stay low for a "considerable time". Yet with GDP growth still on track to hit a trend rate of around 3% the risks to the US appear modest and, barring a shock, the tapering process that begun in December 2013 should finally be concluded. As Larry Summers told Bloomberg: "We’ll live just fine without QE."  FREE AppDownload
Alibaba shares have broken $100. In morning trade on Tuesday, shares of the Chinese e-commerce giant, which debuted on the New York Stock Exchange on Sept. 19, crossed the $100 mark for the first time. At this price, the company has a market cap of more than $250 billion, with the stock rising more than 35% from its IPO price of $68. Alibaba is scheduled to release its first quarterly report as a public company next Tuesday before the market open. Google Finance FREE AppDownload
The British bank Standard Chartered is crashing — down 9% on a third-quarter earnings miss. The bank saw a 16% drop in profits from the same time last year, and it also cut guidance for the second half of 2014, acknowledging that a major global economic shift was here to stay for a while. "We remain watchful in India, in China, and of commodity exposures more broadly, where we have continued to tighten our underwriting criteria and reduce our exposures," the bank said in a statement. “China obviously is going through some pretty radical changes although it’s growing at far faster rates than other economies," CEO Peter Sands said. "As the economy changes and you have things like the anti-corruption drive play through, we have to be very watchful in the way we manage our business and our exposures." All of Asia is slowing down, and it's taking commodities — and as such the rest of emerging markets — down with it. Last week at the Robin Hood Investor conference, legendary investor Paul Tudor Jones said commodities would most likely look ugly until 2020. Obviously that isn't reassuring to Standard Chartered's stock price. Yahoo Finance This isn't new stuff. Russia has been crashing on lower oil prices, and on Monday an Australian chief executive warned on what lower demand for steel could do to his country and other major steel producers like Brazil.  It's about a lack of demand across the region — especially from China. “What we’re seeing on the ground is a significant reduction in confidence domestically within China as it pertains to building and construction, which is where a lot of steel goes,” Paul O’Malley, CEO of the $3 billion international steel company Bluescope, told the Australian Financial Review. “Yes there is still growth [which] may well return, but at the moment, the heyday is over." For the past few months, data out of China has been a whipsaw. Analysts have lowered their GDP growth expectations to about 7.3% or less from 7.5%. In September, industrial production had a terrifying flashback to 2008. The property market, foreign investment, and retails sales were all routed. This is considered a natural growing pain as China shifts from an investment-based economy to one based on domestic consumption. Data has rebounded a bit in October, but there are still major questions about the health of Chinese corporations — they are carrying a ton of debt while corporate margins thin as demand slows with the economy. Societe Generale analyst Wei Yao says this calls for some serious corporate restructuring: "China’s debt problem lies with the corporate sector ... The cure should be capacity consolidation and debt restructuring, rather than another stimulus package targeted to boost investment demand." But that's not what's happening. Instead, Chinese banks continue to issue corporate loans — volumes were up in October — and the government continues to inject capital into the banks to help them stay afloat until the economy normalizes. The problem is that no one knows quite when that will be. This is like trying to patch a leaky ship as you sail. You know you can make a permanent fix once you get to shore, but no one knows when land will come into sight. FREE AppDownload
The US and Mexico just narrowly averted a trade war yesterday. The two countries came to an agreement to avoid import duties just hours after the US Commerce Department found that Mexican sugar exporters were dumping the product on the US market at a margin of more than 40%.  In all, the industry has said the dumping will cost American producers almost $1 billion in net income for the crop year. According to a statement by the International Trade Administration, the agreement will prevent Mexico from undercutting US sugar prices, as well as "prevent imports from being concentrated during certain times of the year, limit the amount of refined sugar that may enter the US market, and establish minimum price mechanisms to guard against undercutting or suppression of US prices." Reuters reports that Mexican producers agreed to a price floor of $0.2357/lb for refined sugar and $0.2075/lb for raw. The two countries have been teetering on the edge for months over the dumping allegations, first made last spring. The industry demanded that the Obama administration impose new import duties, despite the North American Free Trade Agreement, which the US Sugar Alliance says permits tariff-free and quota-free trade, but doesn't permit dumping. The two countries have more generally been fighting over sugar for decades.  Last week, the Mexican economy minister Ildefonso Guajardo told the Financial Times that if the US triggers duties on Mexican sugar, Mexico would retaliate with duties on US corn syrup. The dumping question just exacerbates the more general problem the U.S. sugar industry has with its neighbor to the south: Mexico doubled sugar exports to the US between 2011 and 2013, and as of the 2012-2013 growing year, Mexican sugar accounted for 18% of the US market.   The current price of sugar is low — lower even than in May, when Reuters  reported "prices currently languish near the cost of production for many of the world's millers amid four back-to-back years of surplus."   FinvizUS sugar futures as of October 27   FREE AppDownload
Consumer confidence is at a 7-year high! The Conference Board's index of confidence unexpectedly jumped to 94.5 in October from 89.0 in September. This is the highest level since October 2007. This was much higher than the 87.0 level expected by economists. The past month has been highlighted by falling gas prices, the positive effects of which may have offset uncertainties surround a volatile stock market, the spread of Ebola, and all of the other things that are going wrong in the world. "A more favorable assessment of the current job market and business conditions contributed to the improvement in consumers’ view of the present situation," said Lynn Franco of the Conference Board. "Looking ahead, consumers have regained confidence in the short-term outlook for the economy and labor market, and are more optimistic about their future earnings potential. With the holiday season around the corner, this boost in confidence should be a welcome sign for retailers." "We remain a bit nervous about the risk of a lagged hit from the drop in stock prices, but the net dip from the peak is now small, and gas prices are still falling," Pantheon Macroeconomics' Ian Shepherdson said. "Holiday shopping will be strong." FREE AppDownload
REUTERSThe Richmond Fed's October manufacturing report crushed expectations. The composite index came in at 20, topping expectations for a reading of 11. Expectations were for the reading to come in at 11, down from last month's 14 reading, which was better than expected.  Tuesday's report showed that, "Shipments and the volume of new orders grew robustly this month, while manufacturing employment growth continued at a moderate pace. Average wages rose modestly and the average workweek shortened slightly compared to a month ago." According to the Richmond Fed, "Survey participants' outlook for the months ahead included faster growth in the number of employees and average wages, with steady growth in the average workweek." Additionally, the report showed that manufacturers expected slower growth in prices paid and anticipated faster growth in prices recieved over the next six months." FREE AppDownload
Tim Boyle / Getty Images On a year-over-year basis, home prices rose 5.6%, just below expectations for an increase of 5.7%.  Expectations were for the report to show home prices rose 0.18% month-over-month in August, while rising 5.7% year-over-year.  Last month's report showed that prices actually fell month-over-month while rising less than expected on a year-over-year basis. Following Tuesday's report, David Blitzer, chairman of the index committee at S&amp;P Dow Jones Indices said, "The deceleration in home prices continues. The Sun Belt region reported its worst annual returns since 2012, led by weakness in all three California cities — Los Angeles, San Francisco and San Diego. Despite weaker year-over-year numbers, home prices are still showing an overall increase, as the National Index increased for its eight consecutive month."  On Twitter following the report, Jed Kolko, chief economist at Trulia, said that using what he calls a "better" seasonal adjustment, home prices did not decline in August.  Case-Shiller had m/m drops in natl seas adj index in Apr, May, &amp; June, but that's a SA issue. Prices have NOT fallen pic.twitter.com/APdRdcuWYE  And in a note to clients following the report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro said this should be the last monthly decline and investors should expect a rebound in home prices in the fourth quarter. FREE AppDownload
The US dollar is getting crushed in early trade on Tuesday morning. The dollar is falling against major currencies including the euro, the Japanese yen, and the British pound. The drop in the dollar followed a disappointing report on durable goods orders that showed orders fell 1.3% month-over-month in September, missing expectations for orders to rise 0.5%.  September's report from the Census showed that nondefense new orders for capital goods in September fell 5.4%, while defense new orders for capital goods rose 7.4%. We're also expecting housing data from the Case-Shiller home price index at 9 a.m. ET, as well as consumer confidence data from the Conference Board and manufacturing data from the Richmond Fed at 10 a.m. ET.  Here is a chart of the dollar's fall against the yen.  FinViz And charts of the euro and pound rising against the dollar.  FinViz FinViz FREE AppDownload
Billionaire energy mogul T. Boone Pickens will put your push-up game to shame.  The 86-year-old was the grand marshal at a number of events for Oklahoma State University's homecoming this past weekend. During the morning parade, he was cranking out push-ups while members of the ROTC carried him. It was impressive.  For the past 26 years, Pickens has been working out with his personal trainer every morning at 6:30. He also told us recently that he thought President Obama's workout routine was "pitiful." Check it out:   Banging out a few early morning push-ups as #okstate homecoming grand marshal. @okstate A video posted by Boone Pickens (@tboonepickens) on Oct 10, 2014 at 8:01am PDT FREE AppDownload
Flickr via Charman of the Joint Chiefs of StaffDurable goods orders unexpectedly fell in September. Durable goods orders fell 1.3%, missing expectations. Expectations were for orders to rise 0.5% month-over-month, a moderation from the wild swings seen in August and July. Excluding transportation orders, durable goods orders fell 0.2% in September, while orders fell 1.5% excluding defense orders. Durable goods orders excluding transportation were also expected to rise 0.5%.  September's report showed that nondefense new orders for capital goods in September fell 5.4%, while defense new orders for capital goods rose 7.4%.  In July, durable goods orders rose a record 22% on large aircraft orders, but this was followed by a huge 18% drop in August. Following the report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro said, "In one line: Details aren't as bad as the headlines, which are volatile and prone to revision." FREE AppDownload
Twitter is getting smoked Tuesday morning after Monday night's earnings report. The stock is off by 13%, down to $42.45. Twitter's numbers were all right in line with analyst expectations. Revenue was even slightly ahead of expectations. It wasn't good enough.  Ben Schachter at Macquarie Research put it best, saying, "For a stock trading at ~30x '16 EBITDA, it needs to be beating meaningfully, and cleanly, on all metrics." Analysts at Bank of America and RBC downgraded the stock from buy to hold.  Here, via Street Insider, is why Bank of America downgraded the stock and cut its price target to $50 from $60: Our thesis on the stock was based on: 1) revenue upside from new ad formats, 2) improving MAU trends from product changes, and 3) opportunity to convert or monetize non-logged in users. Call commentary suggest that these opportunities still exist (11/12 analyst day will highlight opportunities), but 4Q guidance suggests the ramp will not be consistent and or as fast as we expected to drive stock higher near-term, and we have less confidence in the long-term MAU ramp. That last part is key. Analysts are worried that Twitter's guidance suggests another quarter of weak user growth.  This is the big problem for Twitter. It is a mainstream product that is well-known around the world, but it has failed to gain a global audience of logged-in monthly users. Until it can either prove that it can become a Facebook-size company measured by users, OR become a Facebook-size company measured by revenue, then these questions will dog it. Here are some other analyst takes on the results. Doug Anmuth at JPMorgan: TWTR’s 3Q results &amp; 4Q outlook were light relative to above-guidance expectations. With investor focus on users, MAU net adds of 13M Q/Q came in a couple million light vs. the Street and below our 17M, but were also impacted by 1-2M due to tighter authentication efforts in Asia. Ad revenue of $320M increased 109% Y/Y, slightly below our $325M and bullish expectations, but revenue/1,000 TLVs increased 83% Y/Y as TWTR continues to show strength in monetization. EBITDA was a standout, with margins increasing more than 1,300bps Y/Y to nearly 19%. However, much of the focus will be on TWTR’s 4Q outlook which suggests single-digit MAU net adds along w/revenue &amp; EBITDA essentially in-line w/pre-earnings consensus. We believe the 4Q guide could be conservative, but we recognize there is seasonality in MAU adds, &amp; TLV/MAU are likely to be flattish Y/Y. TWTR’s user metrics are choppy, but they also remind us that it’s early for the company in terms of product quality &amp; facilitating engagement. We are encouraged by the Q/Q step-up in US MAU net adds of 2.6M to 3.6M, &amp; we continue to believe that onboarding improvements, rich content, &amp; better timeline organization can drive user growth going forward. We expect TWTR shares to be under pressure in the near term, w/ investors looking for greater clarity at the Nov 12 analyst day, but we believe this pull-back will prove to be a good buying opportunity based on improvements in products &amp; user growth, monetization, &amp; margin expansion. We are maintaining our Overweight rating w/a 2015 year-end price target of $64 based on our DCF analysis, which also equates to ~44x 2016E EBITDA of $991M. Victor Anthony at Topeka: Following what was supposedly a break-out 2Q, 3Q, was overall, an in-line quarter, and call commentary on 4Q guidance and on implied 4Q user growth was cautionary. For a stock trading at a high multiple, although supported by high growth, an in-line quarter and cautious comments are likely to result in share price volatility (shares up 65% since the Spring). We believe management is managing Street expectations and ad growth and user growth for 4Q are likely to exceed guidance. The pullback should be viewed as an opportunity to own the stock. PT reduces to $60 from $63. Ken Sena at Evercore: While MAUs (users) were inline and the quarter’s financial performance and guide exceeded, commentary on the call felt more cautious on engagement metrics, future guides, and the timing for which it hopes to monetize its non-core user base. This is leading us to dial back our conviction level on shares and lower forward estimates, which had been among Street high. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersSignage for a BP petrol station is pictured in LondonLONDON (Reuters) - BP's &lt;bp.l&gt; third-quarter results took a hit from declining oil prices and a sharp drop in income from Russia as Western sanctions on Moscow led to a slump in earnings from the oil major's local partner, Kremlin-controlled Rosneft &lt;rosn.mm&gt;. BP's overall profits were broadly in line with expectations at $3 billion but down nearly a fifth year-on-year. Its stock posted modest gains as investors welcomed a 5.3 percent year-on-year increase in dividends to 10 cents per share. "Despite the positive financial results the company still faces two significant headwinds -- in Russia and liabilities over the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill," said Iain Reid, analyst at investment bank BMO. BP, a major investor in Russia through a 19.75 percent stake in state oil major Rosneft, said the fall of the rouble against the dollar &lt;rub=&gt; had a significant impact on results. Underlying net income from Rosneft for the quarter was $110 million compared with $808 million a year earlier. The rouble has lost more than a fifth of its value since the start of the year as the Kremlin fights capital outflows and lower oil prices, while local businesses have been shut off from Western lending by sanctions. The United States and the European Union hit Russia with economic sanctions over Moscow's intervention in Ukraine. The latest sanctions hit long-term financing and joint projects with Western companies in the Arctic, and shale developments. Rosneft is expected to post a quarterly loss and on Tuesday the company delayed publication of its third-quarter results by a day without explanation. Unlike its rivals, BP has nearly no production in Russia outside Rosneft. Rival ExxonMobil &lt;xom.n&gt;, Royal Dutch Shell &lt;rdsa.l&gt; and France's Total &lt;totf.pa&gt; have all suspended joint shale oil and Arctic projects in Russia in recent months, jeopardizing plans by Moscow to sustain output and exports, key sources of revenue for the state budget. Oil companies have seen billions wiped off their stock market values as crude prices dropped by 25 percent over the past four months to a four-year low of near $85 a barrel due to slowing global demand, particularly in China, and ample supplies. The impact of the falling oil prices on BP was however limited as the third quarter finishes at the end of September. "Growing underlying production of oil and gas and a good downstream performance generated strong cash flow in the third quarter, despite lower oil prices. This keeps us well on track to hit our targets for 2014," BP Chief Executive Bob Dudley said in a statement. Full year capital expenditure, used mostly for new oil and gas exploration and development, will be trimmed to around $23 billion from previous guidance of $24 billion to $25 billion. BP shares in London were up 0.3 percent at 431.5 pence by 4.12 a.m. EDT. BP and other majors have managed to sustain healthy dividends over the past quarters mainly on the back of asset sales and lower spending, thus generating strong cash flow despite lower oil prices. The increase in the dividend was largely due to BP being on track to achieving its goal of generating $30 billion of net cash flow in 2014, reaching $25.5 billion by the end of the third quarter. BP maintained its $3.5 billion liabilities provision for the 2010 Gulf of Mexico rig explosion and spill, even after a U.S. judge last month found it "grossly negligent" and "reckless" in the disaster. BP said it would appeal the ruling, which could add nearly $18 billion in fines to more than $42 billion in charges the company took for the worst offshore environmental disaster in U.S. history. By the end of the third quarter, cumulative charges paid into the Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill Trust reached their allocated limit of $20 billion and any additional costs "will be charged to the income statement as they arise". Oil and gas production excluding Rosneft was down 2.7 percent from a year earlier at 2.147 million barrels of oil equivalent, mainly due to the expiry of an exploration concession in Abu Dhabi. The decline was, however, offset by higher output from the Gulf of Mexico. The third-quarter results included a $770 million writedown of Block KG D6, a gas field in India, "as a result of uncertainty in the future long-term gas price outlook" after India changed its gas pricing system. BP said it expected fourth-quarter production to be "slightly lower". Profits from BP's refining and retail business more than doubled in the third quarter to $1.5 billion due to stronger refining margins.   (Reporting by Dmitry Zhdannikov and Ron Bousso; Editing by Mark Potter, Jason Neely, Dale Hudson and Giles Elgood) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kai PfaffenbachHappy Tuesday!  From Dave Lutz of JonesTrading, here's a quick guide to what traders are talking about this morning: Good Morning! US Futures are breaking higher, with Russell, NDX and S&amp;P all adding 50bp early. The global rally started in Asia - Hong Kong’s Hang Seng index rose 1.2% and the Shanghai Composite jumped 2.1% as President Xi Jinping signaled a nationwide expansion of free-trade zones. While Falling Ore weighed on Miners keeping Aussie in the red, and Nikkei fell 40bp despite stronger Retail Sales Data – India added 50bp on chatter reforms coming to boost growth. This shift in global sentiment is helping Europe recover, the DAX has added 1.3%, EuroStoxx 1% as the Banks recover yesterday’s weakness – SX7E gaining 1.5%. Most EU markets are trading very light still, with volumes 30-50% below normal. Russian equities are bouncing and the Ruble rallying – helping sentiment in Europe. Keep an eye on Brazilian equities – EWZ is continuing yesterday’s rally from lows, gaining 3% - PBR marked up 2% as the street covers shorts post election. The 10YY is higher here, mirroring a weakness in German paper as the Fed starts their 2day meeting – The DXY is continuing its rally – making gains against the Euro, and getting back upside 108 to the Yen. Keep an eye on Sweden’s Krona – just took out 3Y lows against the $ as their Central Bank cuts to 0% to fight deflation. Despite the headwind from the stronger dollar – most commodities are well bid. Silver and Copper are rallying, while Brent/WTI are up 50bp despite headlines Iran saying no OPEC cut next month. Grains and Beans are popping as yields in Australia and Russia may drop because of extreme weather – this is another crowded short. Scheduled catalysts include Durable Goods Orders at 8:30, S&amp;P CaseShiller at 9, at 10 we get Consumer Confidence and Richmond Fed, and finally at 1 we have a $29B, 2Y auction Focus remains on earnings today (TWTR off 10%, downgraded BofA, SF, Nomura, RBC) – we have AET, AMTD, CIT, CMI, DD, FCX, GLW, HOT, MMC, PCAR, PFE, and TRW pre-open and AFL, AJG, AMP, BXP, EA, FB, GILD, MAR, WDC, and X after the bell. I’ll also be watching the Oil Service Stocks, OIH never recovered with the commodity yesterday. Brazil remains interesting, as EWZ has been a straight line higher since yesterday’s down 10% opening – Despite lighter Eco data yesterday, the ITB (Builders) managed to rally above the 200dma, and close near 3M highs – With rates slightly higher, watch tailwinds in Fins – there was a massive liquidation Friday in the XLF, seemed tied to a hedge coming off in Options. Finally, Ebola headlines are fading, and the Airlines continue to rocket higher – UAL, AAL and DAL are all up double digits for October.  FREE AppDownload
 The electric car-maker Tesla has been one of the hottest growth stories in the stock market and American industry. So everyone was taken aback when The Wall Street Journal's Mike Ramsey and John D. Stoll reported a breathtaking plunge in sales for one of the Tesla models. From The Journal: The auto maker has long had a waiting list in the US for its only car, which is currently back-ordered in its home market until December, according to a company sales representative. Tesla, however, is facing declining sales in the US, according to WardsAuto.com, an industry publication that tracks auto company data. Through September, Tesla sold 10,335 Model S sedans in its home market, down 26% compared with the same period in 2013. The US decline has come even as the company’s US production increased 10% during the same period, according to WardsAuto. Tesla doesn’t disclose sales volumes by region, but has said it expects half of its sales to be outside the US by the end of 2014. With a goal of selling 35,000 cars this year, Tesla would have to sell about 17,500 models in the US. At its current sales pace, the auto maker will miss that target by a wide margin — and will have to double its sales pace to hit its goal. There are obviously some confusing points here. The article acknowledges the vehicles are back-ordered, which would suggest Tesla is probably on track to meet its goal of selling 35,000 units. Indeed, this was the message CEO Elon Musk advanced in the company's Q2 earnings announcement, in which he also projected a run-rate of 100,000 units in 2015. Musk fired back on Twitter, saying point blank that The Journal was "incorrect." Article in @WSJ re Tesla sales is incorrect. September was a record high WW and up 65% year-over-year in North America. Some folks have noticed an issue with Musk's tweet. Specifically, Musk says September was up 65% year-over-year. Meanwhile, The Journal says down 26% "through September," suggesting it was measuring year-to-date sales. Nevertheless, Musk is saying something is wrong. In July, Tesla announced it would be shutting down production of its Fremont Model S factory to retool in preparation for its new Model X. It's possible that any resulting supply disruption could mean delayed deliveries. In other words, while sales have been technically strong, the cars sold might not actually be on the owners' driveways. We are likely to have more clarity by Nov. 5, which is when Tesla announces its Q3 financial results.   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Joshua Lott Good morning! These are the major stories already making an impact on financial markets early Tuesday. The Russian Ruble Just Hit A Historic Low. Russia's currency crossed 54 rubles to the euro in early trading, the first time it had ever crossed that level, on the back of months of weakening against major currencies. Sweden Just Slashed Interest Rates To Zero. After months of dipping from low inflation into deflation, Sweden’s Riksbank has cut its main policy rate to 0%.  UBS Set Aside $2 Billion For Settlements. UBS, Switzerland's largest bank, has had to set aside 1.84 billion Swiss francs ($1.9 billion) in legal provisions to pay for possible fines and to settle regulatory investigations.  Lloyds Is Laying Off Another 9,000 Staff. Britain's Lloyds Banking Group has taken another £900 million ($1.5 billion) charge to compensate customers who were mis-sold loan insurance, and the bank is laying off thousands of workers to reduce costs. European Markets Opened Up. All the major stock indices in Europe were up Tuesday morning. In Asia, the Nikkei closed down 0.38% and the Hang Seng closed up 1.63%.  Durable Goods Are Coming. Official numbers for durable goods orders are out at 8:30 a.m. ET, with analysts expecting a 0.5% increase. At 10 a.m. ET, consumer confidence is out and analysts are expecting a marginal improvement.  Standard Chartered Is Getting Hammered. Shares are down 9.5% after results Tuesday morning revealed a 16% drop in profits in the third quarter of the year. Twitter Shares Are Tanking In Premarket. Shares are down by more than 11% ahead of the open after some disappointing results. BP Working Through Headache From Russia. BP's third-quarter results took a hit from declining oil prices and a sharp drop in income from Russia as Western sanctions on Moscow led to a slump in earnings from the oil company's major's local partner, the Kremlin-controlled Rosneft. Air France’s Dutch Arm Is Reportedly Shedding 7,500 Workers. The Dutch arm of Air France-KLM plans to cut its workforce by 7,500 jobs, or 25%, largely through outsourcing, a Dutch daily newspaper reported on Tuesday. FREE AppDownload
British oil giant BP has released a gloomy third-quarter result today, with profits down 17% from the previous quarter. The Financial Times reports that replacement cost profit (the preferred index of analysts because it takes into account fluctuations in oil prices to make the cost of acquiring reserves comparable) was just $3 billion from July to September, dropping from $3.6 billion in the previous three months and $3.7 billion in the same period last year. BP looks like it's in the middle of a perfect storm, with three different battles to fight: 1. The drop in oil prices is hurting profits at all oil companies, including Chevron, Royal Dutch and Exxon. Yesterday, Goldman Sachs predicted the Brent crude benchmark oil price would hit $85 in the first three months of next year. 2. BP is horribly exposed to the ongoing disaster that is Russia. It owns a 20% share in Rosneft, the Russian oil and gas company controlled by the Kremlin, which has been badly hit by the Western sanctions over Ukraine and by the general drop of the Ruble. Rosneft was expected to release its own quarterly results today but delayed without giving any explanation, according to IBT. At the same time, the Ruble hit a historic low against the Euro today, and the situation does not look as if it will improve anytime soon. 3. BP is also burdened by the giant litigation bill from the US Government over the Deepwater Horizon incident of 2010. Reuters reports that the charges already paid by the end of September reached $20 billion. The figure could triple if an appeal against a conviction for "gross negligence" is rejected. In September, US District Court judge Carl J. Barbier fined the company a further $18 billion for its responsibilities in the Louisiana disaster. Despite this triple challenge, chief executive Bob Dudley displayed confidence, and speaking with the Guardian said: “Growing underlying production of oil and gas and a good downstream performance generated strong cash flow in the third quarter, despite lower oil prices. This keeps us well on track to hit our targets for 2014." The company raised its dividend to shareholders by 5.3% today. Of course, the more BP grows production, the more it increases supply. In turn that creates downward pressure on oil prices, which increases the downward pressure on BP's profits. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucy NicholsonJack Ma, Executive Chairman of Alibaba Group, speaks at the WSJD Live conference in Laguna Beach, California October 27, 2014. Jack Ma, the CEO of e-commerce giant Alibaba and China's richest man, appears to have a lot of sympathy for the student-led protests disrupting Hong Kong over that last month. “Hong Kong part of me (thinks) it’s not about China and Hong Kong relationship. It’s about the young people who don’t have hope," Ma told a technology conference. "All the big guys take ... the good things and the young people feel hopeless. I understand that but they should not push too much. Both sides should listen.” The financial hub and former British colony of Hong Kong has been rocked by a student-led civil disobedience movement called "Occupy Central" that demands full democracy, sparking clashes with police and other groups. Hong Kong returned from British to Chinese rule in 1997 under a "one country, two systems" formula that allows it wide-ranging autonomy and freedoms and specifies universal suffrage for choosing its leader as an ultimate goal. REUTERS/Damir SagoljProtesters open their umbrellas, symbols of pro-democracy movement, as they mark exactly one month since they took the streets in Hong Kong's financial central district October 28, 2014. Hong Kong has been roiled by a tenacious, month-long student-led people's movement demanding full democracy in the former British colony that returned to Chinese rule in 1997.  But Communist Party leaders in Beijing have insisted on screening candidates for the job first, prompting the popular, and in the most part courteous, dissent. The student-led protesters now appear to be settling in indefinitely, even though the government is powerless to change the financial hub's "Basic Law" mini-constitution and go against Beijing rule. China's Communist Party said on Tuesday it aims to prevent "external forces" intervening in Hong Kong and Macau, the official Xinhua news agency reported via its microblog. The ruling party added it supported the chief executive of Hong Kong and his administration. Neighbouring Macau, a former Portuguese colony, has seen similar protests. (h/t @BryFitz) FREE AppDownload
Applying for a job typically consists of providing two documents to your potential employer: a resume and a cover letter. While simple improvements can be made to a fairly straightforward resume, writing an effective cover letter can be the tricky part. Be sure not to make these mistakes.  Produced by Justin Gmoser Follow BI Video: On Facebook  
ReutersGood morning! Here's what you need to know for Tuesday. 1. Sweden just cut interest rates to zero.  2. Lloyds bank has confirmed its plan to cut 9,000 jobs over the next three years and to close 200 branches. 3. The world population is growing so fast that not even another world war or a devastating pandemic would reduce the number of people to a sustainable amount, a new study suggests. 4. A US nurse who was involuntarily quarantined in New Jersey after treating Ebola patients in Sierra Leone is preparing to take legal action.  5. The European stress test results published on Sunday had "isolated errors and inconsistencies," The Wall Street Journal reports, including a mistake in reporting the key capital ratio of one Italian bank.  6. North Korean leader Kim Jong Un reportedly had ankle surgery.  7. The United States Postal Service has revealed that it "approved nearly 50,000 requests last year from law enforcement agencies and its own internal inspection unit to secretly monitor the mail of Americans for use in criminal and national security investigations," The New York Times writes.  8. Rob Ford's brother, Doug Ford, was defeated by a moderate conservative in the Toronto mayoral election on Monday.  9. Wal-Mart said it will not accept Apple Pay.  10. British Prime Minister David Cameron is preparing to fight the European commission's request to fork over £1.7 billion.  And finally ... Six-year-olds in New York City now have a designated club to party at night.  FREE AppDownload
BEIJING (Reuters) - A once-powerful retired Chinese military officer has confessed to taking "massive" bribes and will be prosecuted in court, the official Xinhua news agency said on Tuesday. General Xu Caihou, a former vice chairman of the powerful Central Military Commission, was court-martialed in June. He has been stripped of his title and expelled from the military, Xinhua said, citing military prosecutors. Military prosecutors had finished investigating his case and had started a procedure to file the case with judicial authorities, Xinhua said. Xu took advantage of his position in awarding promotions, Xinhua said. He accepted "huge amounts of bribes" personally and through family members. He also sought profits for others in exchange for bribes, Xinhua said. The statement also noted that Xu's expulsion from the Communist Party had been formalized. Earlier this year, authorities charged one of Xu's proteges, Lieutenant-General Gu Junshan, with graft. The buying and selling of senior jobs in the military, an open secret, has worried reformers who say it leads to those with talent being cast aside and damages morale. Chinese President Xi Jinping has vowed to target high-ranking "tigers" as well as lowly "flies" in a sprawling campaign against corruption. China stepped up a crackdown on corruption in the military in the late 1990s, banning the People's Liberation Armyfrom engaging in business. But the military has been involved in commercial dealings in recent years due to a lack of checks and balances, military analysts have said. Anti-graft advocates have said corruption in the military is so pervasive that it could undermine China's ability to wage war.  (Editing by Nick Macfie and Alex Richardson) FREE AppDownload
Getty / Scott Olson Twitter CEO Dick Costolo.Twitter's stock was down nearly 13% in pre-market trading, after CEO Dick Costolo admitted yesterday that the company's efforts to gain new users through the World Cup didn't have much of an effect. As Business Insider reported back in July, Twitter quietly launched a special on-boarding program for new users arriving at the service during the planet's biggest sporting event, to help them find cool soccer-themed Twitter users to follow. "But we didn’t see an impact on monthly active users," Costolo told analysts on his Q3 earnings call. To be clear, Twitter is still growing, it's just growing more slowly now. It added only 13 million users in Q3. Only 3 million of those were added in the US — Twitter hasn't added more than 3 million Americans since 2012 at least. Costolo had previously said he expected the World Cup to increase engagement with users, which is different from adding new users. But monthly active users (MAUs) are what's driving the stock right now, and MAU growth is slowing. Here is Twitter's sequential growth in MAUs this year: • Q3 2014: 4.8%• Q2 2014: 6%• Q1 2014: 4% That decline, from 6% to 4.8%, came despite a World Cup final — the type of massive global event that Twitter believes is its natural environment. Worse, Costolo says, "in Europe there was no change in monthly active user growth over the time of the world Cup. In fact monthly active user grow slowed in line with expected seasonality in each successful month of the World Cup." If you can't add Europeans during a World Cup, when can you add them? BI IntelligenceThe year-on-year growth tells a more depressing story, and you can see it in that downward-pointing line on the chart. Users rose 23% in Q3 2014. In Q3 2013, the previous year's growth was 39%. So now comes the real test: Q4 2014. The World Cup was actually split evenly across Q2 and Q3, so Twitter got a bump in users and engagement in both quarters. That all goes away in Q4. By that time, Costolo's reforms — new management across the board and a simplification of the user interface — should have kicked in. If Twitter continues to grow MAUs, even at this anemic pace, we'll know those changes worked. The worst case scenario, however, is that growth dips below 4%. Here are Costolo's comments on MAUs and the World Cup in full: Yeah, so the one thing I’d like to make clear is when we did World Cup last quarter it was an experience that was focused on monthly active users and was not broadly advertised to nonusers and we saw nice engagement with the product, but we didn’t see an impact on monthly active users. And we’ve gone back and looked at the numbers a number of times now that we’re in the second quarter and want you have the same confidence that we have that the World Cup did not have an impact on monthly active users in the second quarter and then I’ll give you a sense for what we’ve done in the third quarter as it may have been similar to the World Cup. As it relates to the second quarter monthly active users contribute to the World Cup, what we would say is the following; in Europe there was no change in monthly active user growth over the time of the world Cup. In fact monthly active user grow slowed in line with expected seasonality in each successful month of the World Cup. In Latin America there was a slight acceleration of net ads on the World Cup, but at most of the World Cup added 600,000 users which is immaterial and quite frankly we probably saw a derogation of those users in the following month before the quarter ended. The U.S. actually added more net ads this quarter than last quarter which is interesting on a sequential basis. Disclosure: The author owns Twitter stock. FREE AppDownload
ReutersThe Lloyds Bank results are out this morning: Profits in the third quarter are up an impressive 41%, but Britain's second-biggest bank is laying off 9,000 employees and closing 150 branches.  The business model might well be improving, but that's at the expense of the company being viciously streamlined. It is aiming to make savings of £1 billion ($1.61 billion) per year by 2017. Even for a business of Lloyds' size, those sorts of reductions are never painless. There's not yet any indication of where the axe will fall, but given the bank's commitment to boosting its IT services, that department is probably relatively safe. Many of the layoffs will almost certainly be in increasingly unused physical bank branches. This isn't the first round of massive job cuts at the bank, either. In 2011, it announced its intention to cut 15,000 jobs by the end of this year. Lloyds' share price is down about 2% Tuesday morning, but analysts aren't sounding distressed. In a note titled "Carry On Cutting," Investec analyst Ian Gordon notes the driving force for the layoffs: The main news sits in the strategic update with 9,000 job cuts intended to drive an improvement in the cost: income ratio to 45% by 2017. We await further details later, but this would appear to represent a small improvement against our existing forecasts.  Some think that the cuts are an indication of inefficiency at the bank. This from Jakub Lichwa at Daiwa Capital Markets:  The bank announced further 9,000 job cuts in and 150 branch closures over the next 3 years indicating cost pressure and ineffectiveness of its branch network. Others, like Mike Van Dulken at Accendo Markets, don't mention the job cuts but are very happy with the overall direction of the bank:  No surprises the markets did not react well to the mis-selling front with PPI totaling another £900 million, however once these cobwebs are all out the cupboard what will hold this company back? Confident of returning to a dividend in 2014 with the company’s third quarter profits rising an astonishing 41%! ... This company could be soon offering everything; growth and income which investors are waiting for. Could this be the catalyst to push the shares towards the magic 100p mark? FREE AppDownload
SEOUL (Reuters) - Samsung Group heir apparent Jay Y. Lee is moving to acquire small stakes in two of the group's financial firms, which analysts say will help the scion solidify control of South Korea's largest conglomerate as a succession looms. Lee is seeking regulatory approval to purchase 0.1 percent each of Samsung Life Insurance Co Ltd and Samsung Fire &amp; Marine Insurance Co Ltd, Samsung Group said in a statement. He is reinvesting after-tax proceeds of 25.2 billion won ($23.97 million) from selling Samsung Asset Management Co Ltd shares to Samsung Life earlier this year. Although the companies are already firmly in Samsung Group's grasp, analysts said direct ownership would allow Lee to formally influence how they are managed. Samsung Life is also at the heart of Samsung's complicated shareholding structure and will play an important role in any succession planning. Samsung declined to comment on why Jay Y. Lee was buying the shares. Samsung patriarch Lee Kun-hee has been hospitalized since May following a heart attack, putting impetus on his children to ensure a stable transfer of control. Jay Y. Lee, who is the only son, is widely expected to take over crown jewel Samsung Electronics Co Ltd &lt;005930.KS&gt;, as well as the financial firms. "I think we're now seeing efforts to establish a Jay Y. Lee regime in earnest," said Chung Sun-sup, CEO of research firm Chaebul.com. Korea Investment Trust Management fund manager Baik Jae-yer said going through the regulatory approval process for Samsung Life now could also serve as a test run ahead of an eventual inheritance of his father's shares in the insurer. The elder Lee is Samsung Life's biggest single stakeholder at 20.8 percent. "I think this process helps him identify any potential legal hurdles when he looks to inherit those shares," Baik said. The Financial Services Commision will likely decide whether to approve the purchases on Wednesday, said an official at the financial regulator who declined to be named. Samsung Group said the younger Lee had no plans to buy more shares in Samsung Life or Samsung Fire &amp; Marine at present. Analysts saw no need for additional purchases to bolster his influence and believed he was more likely to prepare for the inheritance of his father's Samsung Life stake. The conglomerate has pushed through major initiatives to streamline its structure, including a merger of Samsung Heavy Industries Co Ltd &lt;010140.KS&gt; and Samsung Engineering Co Ltd &lt;028050.KS&gt; approved by shareholders on Monday. Chaebul.com's Chung said Jay Y. Lee could buy shares in other key group companies such as Samsung C&amp;T Corp and Samsung Heavy Industries to further tighten his grip, in line with the strategy pursued by his father. "Though they may not be big, Lee Kun-hee owns shares in the key affiliates to ensure that he can exert direct control," Chung said. "Eventually, the shareholding structure will need to become more streamlined but that will take a lot of time and resources, so such stake purchases by Jay Y. Lee will help to maintain control in the meantime." (Reporting by Se Young Lee and Lee Changho; Editing by Ryan Woo and Edmund Klamann) FREE AppDownload
LAGUNA BEACH Calif. (Reuters) - Alibaba Group Holdings Ltd executive chairman Jack Ma said he's open to working with Apple Inc on mobile payments, as China's richest person prepares to call on Hollywood this week in search of media partners. Alibaba affiliate Alipay is China's largest payments service, while Apple just this month debuted its own version of a mobile wallet, letting iPhone 6 users make payments at retailers with their smartphones. Ma told a Wall Street Journal Digital Live conference on Monday that he has tremendous respect for Apple CEO Tim Cook. "I hope we can do something together," he said when asked if Alipay and Apple Pay might tie up. Ma, who amassed a fortune estimated at $25 billion partly through his stake in recent market debutante Alibaba, is a frequent visitor to the United States. This week, he plans to visit a number of Hollywood studios, reportedly to strike up content deals. "I want to come here looking for partners," he said, adding that China will eventually become the world's largest movie market. Alibaba, which handles more e-commerce transactions than Amazon.com Inc and eBay Inc combined, does not have much of a presence among American retail customers and Ma said his focus for now was on serving his Chinese clientele. Ma added that he wanted to work on selling American and European products to China, reversing the typical flow of goods over the past 10 to 15 years. Alibaba has acquired some smaller American companies such as niche online retailer 11Main and Ma said he will continue to invest in the United States. (Editing by Edwina Gibbs) FREE AppDownload
Robin Robokow / Flickr, CCSweden's central bank, the Riksbank, just slashed its main interest rate to zero. That's zero as in nothing, nada, 0%. It's a rare move. Normally, central banks that want to boost their economies and fuel a bit of inflation like to keep their interest rate nominally above zero — at 0.25% or 0.5% — to maintain the fig leaf that they're not targeting a "no-interest" interest rate. Being just above zero still gives you one last weapon to use, in the form of a cut to zero, if things get really bad. But in Sweden, the fig leaf has been abandoned altogether. The country is now looking toward negative interest rates as the next place to go — a situation most people only hear about in theory in macroeconomic classes. The European Central Bank started flirting with that policy in June. The country doesn't use the euro, but like the rest of the eurozone it is also mired in a low inflation and deflation scenario. The most recent inflation data for September recorded a 0.4% drop in prices compared with the same month last year.  Like the European central bank, the Riksbank tried to hike interest rates as the economy appeared to be recovering in 2011. It has since been forced into an embarrassing u-turn. Then Riksbank deputy governor and esteemed monetary economist Lars Svensson argued against the move when Sweden began tightening.  Trading Economics FREE AppDownload
UBS, Switzerland's largest bank, has had to set aside Sfr1.84bn (or £1.2 billon / $1.9 billion) in legal provisions to pay for possible fines and to settle regulatory investigations. It has also warned shareholders that these costs are likely to be "at elevated levels" for the "forseeable future". The Swiss lender is currently in discussions with US regulators about a criminal investigation into the alleged rigging of currency benchmarks and with the French authorities into allegations that UBS helped some wealthy clients to avoid tax. Last month, UBS said that it was looking to settle the foreign exchange investigation but provided scant details. Settlement discussion with French regulators fell apart in July and the Swiss bank remains embroiled in a legal fight. Most of the legal provisions were booked in UBS's investment bank. Despite having to set aside legal reserves, UBS produced solid results with net income in the quarter rising 32pc to Sfr762m from Sfr577m over the same period a year ago. However, the results were helped by UBS booking a Sfr1.3bn net tax gain. Sergio Ermotti, the chief executive of UBS, said: "I am very pleased with our underlying performance for the quarter, which again demonstrates the strength of our franchise. At the same time, we are actively addressing litigation and regulatory matters." In a statement, the Swiss bank said it is exposed to "a number of significant claims and regulatory matters" and expects charges associated with litigation, regulatory and similar matters to "remain at elevated levels through 2014". The bank added: "At this point in time, we believe that the industry continues to operate in an environment where charges associated with litigation, regulatory and similar matters will remain elevated for the foreseeable future." UBS also delivered a somewhat gloomy prognosis for the global economy, saying that many of the underlying challenges and geopolitical issues it has previously highlighted remain and in some cases have intensified. Indeed, UBS said that "a number of new concerns have arisen including fear of risks related to the Ebola virus". It continued: "The mixed outlook for global growth, the absence of sustained and credible improvements to unresolved issues in Europe, continuing US fiscal and monetary policy issues and increasing geopolitical instability would make improvements in prevailing market conditions unlikely." FREE AppDownload
The ruble on Tuesday hit its lowest exchange rate against the euro since the creation of the European single currency in 1999. Russia's currency crossed 54 rubles to the euro in early trading, the first time it had ever crossed that level, on the back of months of weakening against major currencies. BloombergThe ruble versus the euro. Tuesday's news comes after the currency has tracked the collapse in the oil price. Brent crude has fallen from a June high of $115 a barrel to about $86 a barrel Tuesday. The falls have been particularly severe for Russia, which relies on tax revenues from oil exports to fund the government budget. The Kremlin can meet its current spending commitments only with oil at about $90 a barrel. Anything below that will force the government either to increase borrowing or to cut back on spending plans. Such is the level of concern within the country that the finance minister described a draft budget put before Russia's parliament Friday, which assumes an average oil price of about $100 a barrel between 2015 and 2018, as being based on an "alternative economic reality." The Finance Ministry is now looking to cut as much as 10% of the budget to compensate for lower than expected oil revenues over that period. These concerns have driven foreign capital out of the country, with the Russian central bank reporting $85 billion of capital outflows in the first nine months of 2014. This has put huge pressure on the ruble, pushing down its value against other currencies and forcing the central bank to spend more than $15 billion of foreign exchange reserves in October alone in an attempt to halt the pace of the declines. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Bobby YipStandard Chartered just announced a 16% drop in profits for Q3, compared with the same three months last year. And the bank's shares are tanking in London as markets open Tuesday morning. As of 7 a.m. ET, they're down 9.48%.  Earnings before tax are down to $1.53 billion, and profits for the year so far are down by nearly a fifth from 2013. That's partly because of the slowdown in Asian economies. China's growth dropped to 7.3% in the third quarter and is expected to slow even further.  It's not the first disappointment for Hong Kong's oldest bank. CEO Peter Sands calls trading conditions "subdued," and the results say that the "market environment remains challenging." It's not the first disappointment for Standard Chartered. The bank warned investors about its profit outlook earlier this year, and its share price was down by more than a quarter so far this year before the results came out: Bloomberg FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFile photograph shows pedestrians walking past a branch of Lloyds Bank in the City London LONDON (Reuters) - Britain's Lloyds Banking Group has taken another 900 million pound ($1.5 billion) charge to compensate customers mis-sold loan insurance, delivering a further blow to the bank which only narrowly passed a European health check. The new charge on Tuesday took the bank's total cost to cover the mis-selling of payment protection insurance (PPI) to 11.3 billion pounds ($18.2 billion), more than any other bank and close to half of the total bill for the industry. The policies were meant to cover repayments if customers fell ill or lost their jobs but were often sold to people who did not need them or would be ineligible to claim. Analysts at Citi said they expected Lloyds to set aside another 1 billion pounds for PPI compensation next year and Lloyds Finance Director George Culmer told reporters on a conference call he could not rule out further increases. The new mis-selling charge comes two days after the bank, 25 percent-owned by the British government, only narrowly passed a test set by regulators to assess whether banks have enough capital to weather another economic crash. Lloyds, which was the worst performing British bank in the European stress test, faces a further test by the Bank of England (BoE) in December which will measure its resilience against scenarios including a 35 percent decline in house prices and a rise in interest rates to 6 percent. The result of that will be key to whether the bank is cleared by Britain's financial regulator to pay its first dividend since it was rescued by a 20.5 billion pound government bailout during the financial crisis of 2007-2009. "Whilst we do not see failure as having capital raising implications, we no longer expect Lloyds to pay a 2014 dividend," said Macquarie analyst Ed Firth. Culmer said he expected Lloyds to pass the BoE stress test and remained confident the bank would be cleared to pay a "modest" dividend for 2014. "The discussions look at earnings, they look at capital and they look at stress tests. We consider ourselves to be in a good position with regards those three criteria as we go into those discussions," he said. Shares in Lloyds were down 1.8 percent at 4:45 a.m. EDT. Lloyds confirmed its previously reported plan to axe 9,000 jobs in the next three years and to close 200 branches. That will be partly offset by the opening of 50 new branches. The net reduction is equivalent to cutting its total branch network by about 6 percent. Chief Executive Antonio Horta-Osorio said he expected competitors to shut more branches during the period and for Lloyds to subsequently grow its market share. As part of a strategic plan for the next three years unveiled alongside third-quarter results, the bank said it would invest 1 billion pounds in digital technology. It plans to lend an additional 30 billion pounds across Britain over that period, aiming to grow in areas where it is under-represented, including consumer lending and financial planning and retirement. Lloyds reported an underlying profit of 2.2 billion pounds in the third quarter, up 41 percent from a year ago, as losses from bad debts fell sharply. Statutory profit in the latest quarter was 751 million pounds. (Editing by Clare Hutchison and Mark Potter) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersWorkers stand under the logo of Honda Motor Co. outside the company's headquarters in TokyoTOKYO (Reuters) - Honda Motor Co  on Tuesday reported a 4.1 percent fall in second-quarter profit, missing analyst estimates, as it struggles with product recalls in the United States and Japan that could delay the development of new models. Japan's third-biggest automaker by revenue booked 164.4 billion yen ($1.52 billion) in operating profit for July-September, compared with a 184.1 billion yen mean estimate of 14 analysts polled by Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. The automaker also kept its forecast for the full year ending March 31 at 770 billion yen. The result comes as U.S. consumers announced a lawsuit against Honda in relation to its recall of over 5 million cars carrying potentially defective airbags from Takata Corp . Last week, Honda also apologized for the fifth domestic recall of its Fit hybrid subcompact and said it would re-examine its process for developing cars. Shares of Honda closed 0.7 percent lower before the earnings release, compared with a 0.4 percent decline in Tokyo's benchmark Nikkei index .  (Reporting by Chang-Ran Kim and Mari Saito; Editing by Christopher Cushing) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersApple CEO Tim Cook speaks at the WSJD Live conference in Laguna BeachBy Deepa Seetharaman LAGUNA BEACH Calif. (Reuters) - Apple Inc  CEO Tim Cook fired back at CVS  and Rite Aid  on Monday after the drugstore chains blocked the iPhone maker's mobile payments service, saying there were plenty of other retailers around the world to sign up. Apple Pay launched about a week ago and saw more than a million credit cards registered over the first 72 hours. It already totes up more transactions than all other "contact less" payment methods combined, Cook said, citing Visa and Mastercard data. Such services, through which a user pays by holding a smartphone close to a specially designed terminal, have failed to catch on in the United States despite the backing of Google Inc  and other influential players. News emerged over the weekend that the two retailers had opted out of Apple Pay in favor of a rival system that roughly 50 chains, including Wal-Mart and Best Buy, are developing for in-house use. "We've got a lot more merchants to sign up, we've got a lot of banks to sign up and we've got the rest of the world," Cook told the Wall Street Journal Digital Live conference, in the company's most extensive comments on the blockade so far. In launching Apple Pay, the iPhone maker hopes to lock in more customers for its mobile devices by enhancing their overall utility. Industry experts say it stands a chance of becoming the first widely used payments feature on smartphones. CVS and Rite Aid have not explained their surprise move. But the driving force behind developing a retailer-owned mobile payment solution is to avoid paying credit card transaction fees to card companies like Visa  and Mastercard , analysts said. Fees range between 2 percent and 3 percent of costs per transaction. Rite Aid stopped accepting Apple Pay last week at its 4,572 stores. Spokeswoman Ashley Flower said the company was evaluating various forms of mobile payment technologies. CVS did not respond to queries seeking comment but a visit to two of its stores showed that the NFC (Near Field Communications) reader on which Apple Pay was used had been deactivated. It remains to be seen, despite early signs of success, whether mobile payments will become widely adopted. Cook argued on Monday that Apple Pay offered better security and privacy than competing services, and that retailers risked alienating customers by limiting choices at checkout. "It's a skirmish," Cook said in response to a question about the retailers' moves. "Merchants have different objectives sometimes. But in the long arc of time, you only are relevant as a retailer or merchant if your customers love you."  (Writing by Edwin Chan; Editing by Stephen Coates) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe U.S. flag flies at the Burt GM auto dealer in DenverDETROIT (Reuters) - General Motors Co  will shift production of the transmission on the 2016 Chevrolet Volt from Mexico to Michigan, the automaker said. Chief Executive Mary Barra plans to make the announcement Tuesday at the Detroit Economic Club. The redesigned 2016 Volt gasoline-electric hybrid car goes on sale in the second half of 2015. GM also plans to keep Volt engine production in Michigan, the company said. The 2016 model will get a new 1.5-liter four-cylinder engine that will be built in Flint, which also builds the 1.4-liter engine in the current Volt. The new Volt transmission or, more accurately, the electric drive unit will be built next year at GM's Warren transmission plant outside Detroit. By 2016, GM said 70 percent of the Volt's parts will be sourced in the United States. When the car was introduced in late 2010, more than 50 percent of its parts came from outside the country. The Volt and its pricy two-door companion, the Cadillac ELR, are assembled at the Detroit-Hamtramck plant.  (Reporting by Paul Lienert in Detroit; Editing by Cynthia Osterman) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA woman walks past a logo at the office of the Bank of New York Mellon in BrusselsNEW YORK (Reuters) - A U.S. judge refused on Monday to require Bank of New York Mellon Corp  to turn over to holders of defaulted Argentine bonds any of the $539 million the country deposited to pay creditors who participated in its past restructurings. U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa in New York said since the funds were outside the United States in BNY Mellon's accounts at Argentina's central bank, turnover would not be authorized under the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act. "In dealing with what can be subjected to turnover, the FSIA simply does not mention property located outside the United States," Griesa wrote. The motion was brought largely by various Italian citizens who purchased Argentina's bonds. Representatives for the bank, Argentina and the holdout bondholders seeking the handover did not respond to requests for comment. The ruling came a week after a U.S. appeals court dismissed Argentina's appeal of an order directing BNY Mellon to hold onto the $539 million, which the country deposited in June for bondholders who participated in two sovereign debt restructurings. Griesa's decision to block the payment, which he called "illegal," sent Argentina on a course to default in July after no settlement was reached. The default came as Argentina refused to honor court orders to pay $1.33 billion plus interest to U.S. hedge funds suing for full payment on bonds following its earlier 2002 default. The hedge funds, led by NML and Aurelius Capital Management, had spurned the country's 2005 and 2010 debt restructurings, which resulted in exchanges for about 92 percent of the country's defaulted debt. Investors who exchanged bonds were paid less than 30 cents on the dollar. The country's most recent default came after the U.S. Supreme Court declined to hear Argentina's appeal of a ruling that it must pay the holdouts when it paid holders of the exchanged bonds.  (Reporting by Nate Raymond in New York; Editing by Shri Navaratnam) FREE AppDownload
