Even if well-intentioned, the wrong fashion tips can sabotage your style.  A recent Reddit men's fashion thread asked "what is bad clothing advice that people give?"  We selected some of our favorites.  1. "As long as the shirt fits at the collar, it's fine."  "I'm a small skinny guy with a bull neck and long arms," writes ericelectrik. "Chances are if it fits my arms and neck it doesn't fit my body." There are several things to consider when buying a dress shirt. A good dress shirt will be fitted through the torso, with sleeves reaching about an inch past your wristbone. If you have trouble finding a shirt that fits, try visiting a tailor or ordering a custom one online. Shutterstock2. "You have to own the perfect suit for a complete wardrobe."  Lists of wardrobe essentials usually include dressy items like a black suit for formal events, notes Photosynthesis. No two people are alike, and it's impossible to create a wardrobe checklist that fits everyone. Evaluate your own lifestyle. If you rarely go to black-tie events, try renting your formal-wear instead. Business Insider Video3. "Dressing well means you have to be uncomfortable."  If you're uncomfortable, it's going to show. Even formal clothing should be comfortable to wear. And casual outfits that are fitted the right way can look great. "A frumpy suit looks way worse than a well-fitting casual outfit like a hoodie and jeans," writes maxwellsays. American Apparel4. "Wearing larger clothing will make you look slim."  Extra fabric creates bulk, which actually makes you look larger.  "A proper fit is what will make your body look more streamlined," writes styletrumpsfashion.  Flickr/to.wi 5. "Fasten the bottom button of your suit jacket."  "Too many people do this," writes Nobody-Man.  This helpful guide explains that you should fasten the top button sometimes, the middle button always, and the bottom button never. Julien M. Hekimian/Getty Images6. "Men can wear suits anywhere. Always wear a suit."  "No, don't always wear a suit...don't be the jerk who shows up to a party in a suit when everyone else is wearing jeans and a t-shirt. You don't look cool—you look like a tool," writes vm88. "Social context is a huge part of dressing well."Richard Cartwright/Fox7. "If you copy celebrity style, you'll look fashionable."  As Hungryone points out, celebrity style can look out-of-place among normal people.  Chances are, you'd feel uncomfortable wearing Kanye's bright print in your office. Jamie McCarthy/Getty Images8. "Pants will start to fit once you wash them a few times."  You're going to wait forever for this to happen if your pants are too baggy, writes niceniceverycool.  Pants can shrink a little in the wash. But if your pants are overly baggy, spent a few dollars getting them tailored. You'll be happy you did. REUTERS/Suzanne Plunkett9. "Buy once, buy for life."  As GraphicNovelty points out, the idea that every clothing item you purchase has to be perfect is overwhelming.  "There's a time and place for that when you know what your style is. However, if you do this all the time when you're starting out you'll have a bunch of really nice stuff you never wear," he writes. "Plus, sometimes its fun to buy trendy items that you'll only really want to wear for a season."Lululemon FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Fred ProuserMohamed A. El-Erian, CEO and co-CIO of PIMCO.Mohamed El-Erian unexpectedly announced that he would be resigning from his position as CEO and Co-CIO of PIMCO, the $2 trillion money management firm based out of Newport Beach, California. Allianz, the parent company of PIMCO, issued a statement on the matter and various leadership changes. All we had learned about El-Erian was that he would be sticking around PIMCO until mid-March and remain affiliated with Allianz through an advisory role. Moments ago, Business Insider obtained a copy of the internal memo El-Erian circulated to PIMCO employees. In it, he reflected on his time at PIMCO: ...I was so fortunate back in April 1999 to join such an exceptional firm. I vividly remember how  I immediately felt at home in a culture that always puts the client first, that is determined to excel, and that values thought leadership as a foundation for continued success. During my wonderful time at PIMCO, I worked with amazing colleagues who taught and inspired me. I grew professionally and personally. I made lasting friendships. And I had great fun... The lengthy 4-page letter goes into detail about how it was the people who grew the firm into what it is today. El-Erian isn't exactly at retirement age. And while he surely has the wealth to ride into the sunset outside of the public eye, many folks on Twitter and elsewhere immediately speculated that he could head to the Treasury, the Fed, or some other public policy firm. The memo offered some color: After mid-March, I will remain a member of the Allianz International Executive Committee and advise the Management Board on global economic and policy issues. I will also be doing some writing, particularly on central banking and market related issues (and, who knows, there could even be a second book for me). What happens longer-term is an open question. I have no plans as of now. What I do know is that I am looking forward to something different after an initial 15 year career in international public policy (at the International Monetary Fund, and straight out of universities) and an immediate second 16 year career in finance and investment management (overwhelmingly at PIMCO). We seriously doubt he literally has "no plans." It's an "open question,' which means he hasn't ruled too many things out yet. Whatever he does next, we're sure it'll be consequential. FREE AppDownload
Where are all the millionaires moving to? You might be surprised to find that the areas with the strongest growth in their wealthy populations aren’t necessarily states with major metropolises that boast high-end department stores. An annual ranking of millionaire households per capita conducted by market research firm Phoenix Marketing International found that America’s millionaires are starting to spread their wealth … geographically, that is. There were about 53,000 more millionaire households in 2013 than in 2012, bringing the total to some 6.15 million. States that surged in the rankings include Maine, which jumped 11 spots to number 25, and Louisiana, which climbed 10 spots to number 32. The standout was North Dakota, which leapt 14 places to number 29. It wasn’t good news for everyone, though: Nevada, Arizona, Florida, Idaho and Michigan all lost significant footing. According to the rankings, which draw on data from the U.S. Census Bureau, the Federal Reserve and Nielsen Co., the top 10 states with the most millionaires per capita are (in descending order): 1. Maryland2. New Jersey3. Connecticut4. Hawaii5. Alaska6. Massachusetts7. Virginia8. New Hampshire9. Delaware10. California FREE AppDownload
Two Las Vegas casinos will become the city's first to accept the Bitcoin virtual currency from this week, their owners announced Tuesday. The D Las Vegas Casino Hotel and the Golden Gate Hotel and Casino, which are owned by the same company, announced that as of Wednesday they would process transactions through BitPay, among other regular payment options. "I'm proud that the D and Golden Gate will be the first casino properties to accept Bitcoin," said the two properties' chief executive Derek Stevens, who said he decided to do so after several customers asked him about using Bitcoin. Bitcoin will be accepted at five locations, including the two hotels' front desks, a gift shop and Italian restaurant. The Golden Gate, built in 1906, is the oldest casino in Vegas -- and has a history of pioneering new technology, being the city's first to install a telephone in 1907, according to its owner. "We're located in the growing high-tech sector of downtown Las Vegas, and like all things downtown, we're quickly adaptive to new technology," said Stevens. "The timing is right for us to launch this initiative, and I'm happy to be able to offer this to our customers." Bitcoin was invented in the wake of the global financial crisis by a mysterious computer guru using the pseudonym Satoshi Nakamoto. Unlike other currencies, Bitcoin does not have the backing of a central bank or government. Instead, the units are generated by a complex computer algorithm designed by one or more anonymous people in 2009. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidLex Fenwick(Reuters) - News Corp said that Dow Jones Chief Executive Lex Fenwick is leaving News Corp and will be replaced by William Lewis as interim CEO.  In a statement on Tuesday, News Corp said it had plans to review the strategy for Dow Jones, the publisher of the Wall Street Journal and operator of Dow Jones Newswires. "We're reviewing the institutional strategy of Dow Jones with an eye towards changes that will deliver even more value to its customers," News Corp Chief Executive Robert Thomson said. Fenwick was appointed CEO of Dow Jones in February 2012 after more than two decades at Bloomberg L.P. Fenwick was a controversial leader, known for his hard-charging style and profane outbursts, who was tasked with overhauling Dow Jones' institutional business. Last year, Dow Jones launched DJX, essentially pulling all of Dow Jones products like Factiva and Newswires in one product for one price. It was a risky move: customers like banks, hedge funds and retail brokers were used to cherry picking from Dow Jones' offerings and negotiating on price. During News Corp's past earnings reports, the company had flagged weakness at Dow Jones' institutional division. Lewis previously served as editor-in-chief of the Telegraph Media Group in Britain. Thomson Reuters competes with Dow Jones in providing news and financial data to banks and other financial institutions. (Reporting by Jennifer Saba in New York; Editing by Andre Grenon and Nick Zieminski) FREE AppDownload
The artist behind the famous bronze statue of a charging bull near Wall Street seen as symbolising an aggressive financial optimism has settled a tax evasion claim against him in Italy. Italian-American sculptor Arturo Di Modica will have to pay 900,000 euros ($1.2 million) to the tax agency, which accused him of failing to declare five million euros in revenue and not paying 600,000 euros in value-added tax. The payment will put an end to the dispute and allow Di Modica "to concentrate on his artistic activity in New York," his lawyers Dario Valastro and Giuseppe Pettinato were quoted by Italian media as saying on Tuesday. The tax agency had claimed that while Di Modica was formally resident in New York, his main economic activities were in fact concentrated in his hometown of Vittoria in Sicily so he should pay taxes there. New York-based Di Modica unveiled the bull sculpture, which stands 3.4 metres (11 feet) tall, in 1989 and it has become a popular tourist attraction. He has since installed similar bull statues in Amsterdam in Shanghai. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
Douglas Elliman Real EstateHunter Harrison, Canada's top-earning CEO, just put his sprawling Ridgefield, Conn. horse farm on the market for $55 million, according to The Wall Street Journal. Harrison came out of retirement last year to head Canadian Pacific Railway and is ready to move on from Double H Farm, listed with Sally Slater, a horse property expert at Douglas Elliman Real Estate.   Double H has three houses, one dating back to the 18th century, and sits on 87 acres. There are indoor and outdoor riding rings, two barns, 12 paddocks and three luxury staff apartments. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Index Funds Are The Goliaths Of The Financial Advisory Industry (WealthManagement.com)  Using the David &amp; Goliath fable, Bill Smead of Smead Capital writes that active management is like David "because it has lost to the Index as a group over the last 13 years." "The Goliaths of the investing world are the indexes, which include companies like Vanguard, Blackrock and State Street, among others," writes Smead. But he points out that passive funds have weaknesses like Goliath too because they "can be slow to move." "It’s our observation that mergers, bankruptcies, and dismal stock performance are the only ways to get out of an index. It seems that every five to ten years the S&amp;P 500 Index gets over-loaded with the most popular companies of the prior years. In 1999, it was tech and telecom stocks. Indexes, unlike the active managers were not nearly as nimble and could not adjust their portfolios quickly. In 2008, the overload was in energy, basic materials and heavy-industrial/international conglomerates" He points out a few key reasons David, or active managers, have been been beaten by the Goliaths. One key reason he cites is that "active managers are too active because of the pressure they feel to perform well every year, rather than relying on the ten-year numbers to justify their base of capital." And that to be successful stock pickers advisors need to "do what the index can’t do and replicate what the index does well." There Was A Sharp Jump In Risk Tolerance At The End Of 2013 (Investment News)  The end of 2013 saw a 40% increase in risk tolerance, according to the Acertus Market Sentiment Index, a monthly measurement of investor attitudes toward risk. This puts it in the 86th percentile relative to risk tolerance going back to 1986. Mitchell Eichen, CEO of Acertus Capital Management, said that investors are exhibiting "herd mentality" by pouring into stocks to chase gains. "This is indicative of investors’ growing willingness to accept increased risk, a trend consistent with recent media reports of increasing risk tolerance," Eichen said. Here Are The Best-Performing Investments Of The Millennium (Oppenheimer) Oppenheimer has put out an "asset quilt" showing the returns of all major asset classes over the past thirteen years. Emerging market stocks, gold, and real estate investment trusts (REITs) were the best-performing investments, while, commodities, market-neutral hedge funds, and the S&amp;P 500, were the worst. "For us, the total return quilt points to the quintessential importance of the age-old adage, 'Don’t keep all your eggs in one basket', writes Oppenheimer's John Stoltzfus. "Diversification across asset classes is a key discipline not to be taken lightly or ignored by investors, particularly those who care for performance year to year." Bloomberg total returns calculator, Standard and Poor’s, Dow Jones, Barclays, MSCI, Russell, Credit Suisse, NAREIT, Oppenheimer Asset Management. Note: The S&P 400 index is  a mid-cap U.S. stock index while the Russell 2000 represents the U.S. small-cap universe. The data shown represent total returns (price appreciation plus reinvested dividends) except  for the commodities and gold indexes. The Dow Jones UBS Commodity index comprises 22 commodities, including gold. The 13-year total return is a cumulative, annualized return for  the whole period. The returns shown depict the specific period from 12/31/2000 to 12/31/2013. There's A 'Dangerous Lack Of Bond Knowledge' Among Retirement Savers (FA Mag)  An investor survey from State Street Global Advisors has found that "retirement savers have a dangerous lack of bond knowledge," FA Mag's Ted Knutson reports. "“A lack of bond literacy could cause bigger problems now that participants say they have become more conservative," the firm said. "Participants may not understand the impact that greater conservatism can have on their portfolios’ vulnerability to inflation and ability to generate the growth they need for retirement." Deflation Could Trigger A Quick Stock Market Melt-Up, Followed By A Meltdown (Dr. Ed's Blog) There has been some chatter about deflation lately. Eurozone core consumer prices are below 1% since October, and in the U.S. is at 1.7% through December. "Initially, deflation might actually be bullish for stocks, even causing a melt-up. That’s because central bankers are already talking about the need to act decisively now to avoid it," writes Ed Yardeni. "Another round of ultra-easy monetary policies would surely cause stock prices to soar. If deflation prevails nonetheless, the melt-up would be followed by a meltdown, worsening the deflation." "In general, falling consumer prices would be bad for corporate earnings. However, companies that are able to maintain some of their pricing power and earnings growth in a deflationary environment would certainly be highly valued." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Gary HershornA stronger-than-expected storm system that is moving over the Mid-Atlantic and Northeast on Tuesday could leave up to a foot of snow in parts of the country and is already causing widespread disruption.  “Every once in a while these little winter storms go bananas, and we think this might be the one,” Kevin Roth, a meteorologist with the Weather Channel told MSNBC. Nearly 3,000 of the nation's flights were canceled Tuesday morning. In New York City, there are already traffic problems and the MTA has advised New Yorkers to go home early and stay there. A number of states have closed schools, and many federal workers in Washington, D.C., had their offices closed Tuesday afternoon. In addition, the National Weather Service said that temperatures across the eastern U.S. will be 10 to 25 degrees below average — with wind chill the air will feel like 10 degrees below normal in some parts — though conditions won't be as bad as those generated by the polar vortex a couple of weeks ago.  To see how the storm is affecting different parts of the country, check out the photos below: A man uses his snow blower to clear a path around his house in Wilmette, Illinois.  REUTERS/Jim Young People walk across Broadway in Times Square as snow falls in New York. REUTERS/Gary Hershorn Police on mountain bikes patrol in the snow in front of the U.S. Capitol in Washington. Reuters A pedestrian walks through a snow storm in south Philadelphia. AP A woman walks in a park beneath the Manhattan Bridge during snow fall in the Brooklyn borough in New York.  REUTERS/Shannon Stapleton  A woman is bundled up against the cold as a wave crashes into a pile of snow along a beach in Chicago, Illinois. REUTERS/Jim Young In Jersey City, N.J., wind picks up snow from the ground as a man waits to take a photograph of a statue dedicated to the victims of the Katyn massacre in 1940. AP A man peers through a hole in a plastic bag as the winter snowstorm whipped through Philadelphia on Tuesday. AP FREE AppDownload
Mohamed El-ErianMohamed El-ErianMohamed El-Erian is resigning from his positions as CEO and Co-CIO of PIMCO, the California-based fund giant with over $1.9 trillion in assets under management. El-Erian, a Business Insider contributor, is without a doubt one of the sharpest and most influential people in global finance. But who are his influences? Back in 2012, Business Insider asked who and what shaped the way he thinks. From very early on El-Erian learned the value of seeing things from multiple perspectives.  And he spent years questioning his own beliefs while at PIMCO where he experienced a culture of "healthy and constructive paranoia." Thanks to Mohamed El-Erian for helping us with this feature. FREE AppDownload
Platinum prices have been on a total tear recently, climbing about 12% in the past 30 days and 6% in the past two months. The immediate cause appears to be labor unrest in South Africa, where a union representing the country's top-three platinum companies has called for a nationwide strike over wages. 90,000 workers are expected to walk off the job this week. The stoppages have occurred off and on since last November, by which point production had already dropped 5% year-over-year there. Barclays' Peter Worthington expects supplies to shrink further in 2014.  Other analysts including TD Securities Bart Melek see auto demand recovering in Europe, which will help pull global demand up 5.5% in 2014. December Euro car sales data saw the strongest growth in four years. Melek expects prices to average $1,632/oz. in 2014 and $1,750/oz. in 2015. Prices were trading around $1,440 in Tuesday morning trading. Platinum is used in everything from medical technology to oil refining processes.  Here's the price rally in chart form. Kitco Which, to be sure, remain well below post-financial crisis highs... Kitco But here's the recent investor interest in platinum ETFs — near four-year highs. TD Securities FREE AppDownload
More than 2,900 flights into, out of, and within the U.S. have been cancelled today, as the Northeast braces for another wave of freezing weather and heavy snow. More than 30% of flights into and out of LaGuardia, JFK, Newark, Philadelphia, Reagan National, Washington Dulles, and Baltimore airports have been cancelled, according to FlightAware.com. Nearly 1,000 U.S. flights scheduled for Wednesday have already been cancelled. Several airlines have already waived fees for passengers who want to change their reservations. JetBlue's COO warned on Twitter that the airline, which runs most of its flights through New York or Boston, is preparing to scale down its operations for today and tomorrow: Our plan for Tues/Weds: major thinning to our ops in NY/BOS and other northeast airports beginning this eve thru tomorrow morning. JetBlue was criticized earlier this month when it left passengers stranded for days in the Caribbean without flights home. It has cancelled nearly 30% of its flights for today, and 21% of its flights for Wednesday. AirTrain service to JFK has been suspended and replaced with free shuttle buses, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey said. FlightAware.com's Misery Map shows how cancellations and delays ripple across the country. Here's how it looked a bit after 4 p.m. FlightAware.com FREE AppDownload
Flickr / boviateIt's earnings season, which means companies are announcing their quarterly financial results. Only 53 of the S&amp;P 500 companies had announced their results through Friday. "With 11% of the companies in the S&amp;P 500 reporting actual results, the percentage of companies reporting earnings above estimates is well below the four-year average," said FactSet's John Butters. Analysts expect to see average earnings growth of 5.9% during the quarter. But if the current pattern of disappointments turns out to be the trend, then actual growth could be much lower. Here's Butters with the status update: Overall, 53 companies have reported earnings to date for the third quarter. Of these 53 companies, 57% have reported actual EPS above the mean EPS estimate and 43% have reported actual EPS below the mean EPS estimate. The percentage of companies reporting EPS above the mean EPS estimate is well below the 1-year (71%) average and the 4-year (73%) average. At the sector level, the Health Care (100%) sector has the highest percentage of companies reporting earnings above estimates, while the Industrials (20%) sector has the lowest percentage of companies reporting earnings above estimates. In aggregate, companies are reporting earnings that are 2.2% above expectations. This surprise percentage is below the 1-year (3.3%) average and the 4-year (5.8%) average. Companies in the Information Technology (+5.3%) are reporting the largest upside aggregate differences between actual earnings and estimated earnings. In this sector, companies that have reported actual EPS above estimates by the widest margins include Micron Technology (+61%) and Red Hat (+20%). On the other hand, Companies in the Materials (-3.6%) and Industrials (-1.2%) sector are reporting the largest downside aggregate differences between actual earnings and estimated earnings. In the Materials sector, one company is mainly responsible for the high surprise percentage for the sector: Alcoa. The company reported actual EPS of $0.04 for the fourth quarter, relative to the mean EPS estimate of $0.06. In the Industrials sector, companies that have reported actual EPS below the mean EPS estimates by the widest margins include FedEx (-4%), Fastenal (-4%), and CSX Corporation (-3%). Goldman Sachs' Amanda Schneider charted the rate of positive surprises and negative surprises. As you can see, the pattern is not great. Goldman Sachs FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Dado Ruvic BlackBerry stock closed up over 9% today following news that the U.S. Department of Defense will support 80,000 BlackBerry phones. Since BlackBerry has largely failed to resonate with normal consumers, the company has decided to focus on providing devices and services to governments and enterprises. Additionally, the company's new CEO, John S. Chen, is making a push in emerging markets like Indonesia where the BlackBerry brand is still very popular. BlackBerry has also gone on the defensive against Samsung, which is also trying to make bigger moves in the enterprise this year. In a new company blog post, BlackBerry points out a potential security flaw that researchers found in Samsung's Knox enterprise software for mobile devices. FREE AppDownload
Harvest Exchange screenshotWhen Texan hedge fund manager Kyle Bass first revealed that Hayman Capital had taken a large long position in GM he did it on new website HVST.com (Harvest Exchange).  Earlier today, activist investor Daniel Loeb, who runs Third Point, also posted on Harvest Exchange that his fund's largest long position is now Dow Chemical.  Both of those stocks moved after they published their ideas on HVST.com. HVST.com is a site where hedge fund managers and investors can post investment ideas and share their views. Users don't have to post content, though. They are welcome to lurk, read, and consume the content.  The website launched just six weeks ago and it's already starting to take off, according to the site's CEO Peter Hans. The site was co-founded by financial services veterans Peter Hans and Andrew Parmentier alongside Mike Perrone, whose Web designs include Oprah.com, Electronic Arts, McDonald's, etc.  Hans worked on Wall Street for 15 years as a buy-side trader and on the sell-side in institutional sales.   "I found myself throughout my career just talking to people in the business about investments they were in and how they view the world," Hans told us. He explained that he didn't feel like he got decent at investing until after he developed a network of friends, colleagues, and coworkers who were willing to share their thoughts and perspectives on the market.   "It struck me that we have a pretty archaic financial investment infrastructure," he said, explaining that Wall Streeters go to meetings, idea dinners, and conferences where people talk about stocks and where they see the world going.  He thought that this information should be more readily accessible to anyone who is interested in receiving it. In mid-2011, Hans and his co-founders decided to build a platform that would make this possible. During the process, he said they had to do a lot of research on regulatory compliance and security working with internal compliance officers, external counsel, and former SEC enforcers. After that, they reached out to their contacts and friends in the hedge fund industry to get their thoughts.   Many of the early users like Bass and Loeb were contacts of theirs. They have both revealed major new investments on the site that moved the market.  "It's funny because I don't think Harvest Exchange is looking to 'break news.' I think the value in posting something on a platform like Harvest Exchange is you have more control over your content," Hans said. He added that users also have access to analytics where they can see how many views their ideas are getting. As for the name "Harvest", it comes from this idea of a farmer's market where ideas and information flow freely, Hans told us.  HVST.com FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jason ReedMohamed El-Erian, CEO of PIMCOMohamed El-Erian has resigned as CEO of PIMCO, the world's second largest mutual fund, but is staying on to advise parent company Allianz. El-Erian, 55, has been with PIMCO most of the past 15 years.  He will directly report to Michael Diekmann, CEO of Allianz. El-Erian has released a statement through PIMCO thanking his colleagues but without specifying his future plans. Douglas Hodge, currently COO, will step up as CEO. Jay Jacobs was also named president. Bill Gross is staying on as Chief Investment Officer. El-Erian will officially step down in mid-March. Full release » Leadership changes at PIMCO New responsibilities for Mohamed El-Erian within Allianz Group Pacific Investment Management Company LLC (PIMCO), US-based Asset Management  subsidiary of Allianz, has reorganized its leadership structure. Mohamed El-Erian, Chief Executive Officer and Co-Chief Investment Officer of PIMCO,  today has resigned from his functions effective mid-March and will leave PIMCO at the same  time. He will stay on the International Executive Committee of Allianz and will advise the  Board of Management of Allianz SE on global economic and policy issues. Mohamed  El-Erian will directly report to Michael Diekmann, CEO of Allianz SE. William H. Gross, founder of PIMCO, will remain Chief Investment Officer. Portfolio  management will be strengthened by the appointment of the Managing Directors Andrew Balls and Daniel Ivascyn as Deputy Chief Investment Officers. In today’s meeting, effective as of the above-mentioned date, PIMCO’s Managing Directors  also elected Douglas Hodge, Managing Director and currently Chief Operating Officer of  PIMCO, as Chief Executive Officer and Jay Jacobs, Managing Director and currently Global  Head of Talent Management, as President. Craig Dawson, Managing Director and currently  Head of PIMCO Germany, Austria, Switzerland and Italy, will assume the position as Head of  Strategic Business Management. "Over the past years, PIMCO has achieved an outstanding performance in Asset  Management. It speaks for the strength and diversity of PIMCO that all positions can be filled  by internal candidates. With this continuity we are well prepared for the future," said Jay  Ralph, Member of the Board of Management of Allianz SE. "We are pleased that we will continue to profit from the expertise of Mohamed El-Erian, from  his large global network and excellent knowledge of the macroeconomic conditions," said  Michael Diekmann. FREE AppDownload
i_yudai via Flickr Today was one of those days where the Dow Jones Industrial Average did something very different from the rest of the market. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
It's snowing heavily in New York City. The MTA is warning of two-foot snowdrifts and urging commuters to head home early and stay there. Flights are being cancelled by the thousands, including over 30% of flights to and from JFK and LaGuardia airports. The MTA has reduced speed limits on the nine bridges it operates, and the speed limit on all sections of the New Jersey Turnpike has been dropped to 35 mph. According to NYC.gov's snow plowing tracker, most Manhattan streets, along with many in the outer boroughs, have been serviced in the past hour. But traffic is still terrible — everywhere. Here's the view of New York City from Google Maps, with traffic. We've never seen it so red: Google Maps Screenshot Credit to Jason Rabinowitz for pointing out the craziness of this map on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Options guru Jared Woodard of Condor Options compares the year-end 2014 S&amp;P 500 price targets of Wall Street strategists to the forward range for the index in 2014 implied by the options market in the chart below. "Neutral is the new bearish," says Woodard. "The minimum estimate in this survey [of Wall Street strategists] has the S&amp;P 500 at 1850, which would still be a gain for the year. Compare the bar for 2013, where the median target was also positive (light green dot) but there were still some actual bears." In 2013, the market finished significantly higher than either Wall Street strategists or options traders predicted at the beginning of the year. As of Friday's close, the S&amp;P 500 stands at 1838 — less than 1% from the Street's median year-end target.  Condor Options FREE AppDownload
Flickr / MTAIt's heavily snowing in New York City, and the Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA) wants commuters to head out of the office early. It's still reporting "good service" on nearly all subway lines and railroads, but warns that "the storm has arrived earlier than predicted, bringing higher snow accumulation and stronger wind gusts, raising the prospect of snow drifts of up to two feet." "Service on railroads, subways and buses can be curtailed or suspended entirely or on a route-by-route basis depending on snowfall accumulation," the MTA website says. The situation will be especially rough for riders on Metro-North and Long Island Railroad, the MTA warns. And once you get home, stay there: "If you do not need to travel tonight, we urge you not to," the MTA said on its website. Speed restrictions have been put into place on all of the bridges run by the MTA. FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Renzo ApostoliThe good news is the Great American Shale Energy Boom continues to hurtle onward. The bad news is we may be running out of ways of getting it to consumers. In its latest report, the International Energy Agency (IEA) says that the U.S. is producing so much oil — November output surpassed 8 million barrels for the first time in 25 years — that at some point in the near future, existing ways of taking it to market could become inadequate. They call it the "crude wall" — the point at which oil production growth would end up getting squeezed by infrastructure and regulatory constraints, and subsequently slow. "With 2013 US crude oil production exceeding even the boldest of expectations by a wide margin, that 'wall' now seems to be looming larger than ever, and the issue has become a matter of public debate," the agency says. Specifically, debate has begun on lifting the ban on raw crude exports that's been in place for nearly 40 years, when the first Oil Shock hit. While no legislation to do so has yet been introduced, Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz, at least one Senator, and multiple oil companies have called for the ban to be reexamined. So ending the ban would require the most heavy lifting. But the IEA notes there are other items Washington could to address the issue. There's the the Jones Act, an ancient regulation which says that all goods transported by water between U.S. ports must be carried on American made-and-flagged vessels. As Reuters' John Kemp notes, from 2000 to 2013, Jones Act-eligible tankers declined to 43 from 110, hindering the ability of oil companies to move their product to consumers. "It is questionable whether the Jones Act really contributes significantly to maritime security in the modern world," he wrote. Finally, the Obama administration could finally get around to approving the final Alberta-to-Kansas leg of the Keystone XL pipeline. But in his recent New Yorker interview President Obama continued to temporize, and it's estimated it would take a couple of years for crude to start moving through it once to decision was handed down. The exact date at which the U.S. hits the wall remains "elusive," the IEA reassures, and challenges to handling more growth are not immediate. But they conclude: "there is a rising tide of technical and political debate about whether – or when – the US market may run out of options to accommodate further gains without regulatory adjustments." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueNeel Kashkari is running for governor of California.Former Treasury official Neel Kashkari will run for governor of California, CNBC reports. Kashkari confirmed the news. "Just announced campaign for Governor, he tweeted. "Jobs and education." Kashkari oversaw the Troubled Asset Relief Program during the financial crisis and worked for PIMCO afterwards. As we've noted in the past, Kashkari has been looking at running for some kind of office for a while now. Last month, Bloomberg reported that office was governor. And now it's official. FREE AppDownload
IMDB / Paramount Pictures"Airplane"In a recent blog, Passive Management Does Not Equal Passive Investing, we showed how passively managed portfolios actually create an active investment in which volatility isn’t benign and risk exposures can vary wildly over time. So if we could fix the problem and reduce exposure to spikes in market volatility, would a passive portfolio deliver better result? To address this question, let’s understand how a passive investment is meant to create value in the first place. The key to successful passive investing is diversification. It’s a simple idea: spread equal risk across investments and time, so that the portfolio operates at a constant risk level and exposures. The winners should outweigh the losers.   But varying risk exposures and risk levels are the enemy of the traditional passive approach. That’s because it leads to leaps in volatility. When a portfolio’s exposures are constantly changing, diversification isn’t given a chance to work. The Pain of Volatility For any investor, volatility can be especially damaging because of the effects of compounding. For example, a $100 investment in a high-volatility stock that rises 50% and then falls 50% has lost $25. Yet an investment in a low-volatility stock that goes up 5% and falls 5% has only lost $0.25. This is caused by a phenomenon known as “risk drag.” Over the five largest down markets since 1926, the US market-capitalization-weighted equities index lost 50% on average and it took nearly five years to recoup the losses. This is known as the pain of risk drag. Diversification is supposed to reduce risk drag, which is the source of its value. While these examples are extreme, they help illustrate the flaws of a traditional passively managed portfolio, in which diverse positions are not equal over time and fluctuate because of the dynamics of world markets and events. The good news is that this problem can be addressed by creating a portfolio that takes static and constant risk across industries. Testing an Alternative Passive Approach To test the theory, we constructed a model portfolio—a “Balanced S&amp;P 500” index—that rebalanced each month to equalize risk exposures for each market cap–weighted S&amp;P 500 sector. We also operated the portfolio at the average long-term risk level of the index. Then, we compared this portfolio with the S&amp;P 500 Index. As the display shows, we found that by consistently maintaining equal risk exposures and constant overall risk, the portfolio would have returned 1.5% more per year on average than the S&amp;P 500. And the drawdown would have been 20% lower, so an investor would have enjoyed higher returns with lower drawdown risk.  The Alliance Bernstein Blog There are, of course, challenges to this approach. For example, as shown in the display, as the Internet bubble inflated, the Balanced S&amp;P 500 trailed the S&amp;P 500 by a significant amount. This is because at the time, the S&amp;P 500’s volatility was very high and in these conditions, taming the turbulence restrained market gains. Indeed, volatility isn’t always the best measure of risk because it acts to reduce not only outsized losses, but unfortunately also outsized gains. But over time, our research suggests that clamping down on volatility and maintaining diversification should prevail. Investors should always remember that winning the loser’s game—as described in the classic Charles D. Ellis book of that name—is all about losing less in down markets. Traditional passive portfolios are susceptible to large drawdowns and unstable performance. We think that a better passive mousetrap can be built by striving for static risk across industries—and over time—to reduce risk drag and to give diversification time to deliver results. This blog was originally published on InstitutionalInvestor.com. The views expressed herein do not constitute research, investment advice or trade recommendations and do not necessarily represent the views of all AllianceBernstein portfolio-management teams.  Ashwin Alankar and Michael DePalma are Co-Chief Investment Officers of Tail Risk Parity Services at AllianceBernstein. Richard Abramson is Managing Director—Client Solutions at AllianceBernstein.  This article originally appeared at The Alliance Bernstein Blog.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Netflix (NFLX) has run off with the market with its revenue growth over the past couple of years. One can attribute the company’s success to power plays like creating critically acclaimed proprietary television shows including House of Cards and having a heavy focus on converting existing customers onto its streaming video platform from its original DVD-rental by mail service. Analysts expect NFLX to pull off another period of growth this quarter. While the expectations for this quarter from the Buy-Side are in-line with the Wall Street consensus, if you look 1 quarter into the future things get grim quickly. On January 7th Morgan Stanley downgraded the stock on fear of overvaluation and increased competition to its video-streaming service from the likes of Hulu Plus, Amazon(AMZN) Prime Instant Video, and HBO Go. Additionally the FCC guidelines for what we know as net neutrality have recently been struck down by the court. This opens the door for Internet Service Providers to charge variable pricing to businesses and individuals based on the quantity and type and type of data consumed online. Streaming online video is a data intensive activity and Netflix could be required to relinquish a significant part of its profit margin. Netflix is expected to report FQ4 2013 earnings after the market closes on Wednesday, January 22nd. The information below is derived from data submitted to the Estimize platform by a set of Buy Side and Independent analyst contributors.  The current Wall Street consensus expectation is for NFLX to report $0.66 EPS and $1.166B revenue while the current Estimize.com consensus from 46 Buy Side and Independent contributing analysts is also expecting $0.66 EPS and $1.166B revenue.  Over the previous 6 quarters the aggregate profit consensus for Netflix from analysts on Estimize.com was more accurate than Wall Street 5 times.By tapping into a wider range of contributors including hedge-fund analysts, asset managers, independent research shops, students, and non professional investors Estimize has created a data set that is up to 69.5% more accurate than Wall Street, but more importantly it does a better job of representing the market’s actual expectations. It has been confirmed by an independent academic study from Rice University that stock prices tend to react with a more strongly associated degree to the expectation benchmark from Estimize than from the Wall Street consensus. The magnitude of the difference between the Wall Street and Estimize consensus numbers often identifies opportunities to take advantage of expectations that may not have been priced into the market. In this case, we’re seeing no difference whatsoever between Wall Street and Estimize forecasts, which is unusual.  Over the past four months the Wall Street consensus trend for EPS has increased from $0.47 to $0.66 while Wall Street revenue expectations have increased from $1.102B to $1.166B. The Estimize EPS and revenue consensus have increased this quarter with EPS going from $0.51 to $0.66 and revenue increasing from $1.105B to $1.166B.  The distribution of estimates published by analysts on Estimize range from $0.52 to $0.71 EPS and $1.136B to $1.185B revenues. We’re seeing a smaller distribution of estimates this quarter for NFLX than normal. The size of the distribution of estimates relative to previous quarters often signals whether or not the market is confident that it has priced in the expected earnings already. A narrower distribution signaling the potential for less volatility post earnings, a wider vice versa. If you look out to the next quarter, FQ1 2014, the consensus forecast from Estimize is much lower than Wall Street’s. This is reflective of decreasing analyst sentiment and has likely been affected by the net neutrality ruling and fears of increasing competition to Netflix’s streaming video service. The analyst with the highest estimate confidence rating this quarter is WallStreetBean who projects $0.71 EPS and $1.170B in revenue. Estimate confidence ratings are calculated through algorithms developed by our deep quantitative research which looks at correlations between analyst track records and tendencies as they relate to future accuracy. WallStreetBean, who is ranked 9th overall among over 3450 contributing analysts, is expecting Netflix to beat the Street and Estimize on both the top and bottom line.  The consensus from Estimize seems to be that Netflix will report solid quarterly earnings on Thursday, but the future may not be as bright as Wall Street analysts have projected. The future of net neutrality and increased competition are valid and substantial concerns. Simultaneously Netflix’s DVD rental by mail service is being converting to streaming video subscriptions, which puts more of Netflix’s eggs in 1 basket which is going to come under enormous pressure. Investors believe that shrinking or shutting down that cog of the company’s business could backfire. On the other hand, the more optimistic are looking forward to NFLX’s further expansion to overseas markets. In 2013, NFLX was available in most European countries and has only recently expanded to the Netherlands. Eyeing bigger and greener pastures, NFLX knows that expansion into international markets is crucial. However, the bigger question that looms is how well will the online streaming video service perform in the US this year? Get access to estimates for Netflix published by your Buy Side and Independent analyst peers and follow the rest of earnings season by heading over to Estimize.com. Register for free to create your own estimates and see how you stack up to Wall Street. FREE AppDownload
While Western banks are selling their commodities-trading units left and right, Chinese banks are itching to get into the business, says George Chen of the South China Morning Post. China Merchants Securities (CMS), mainland China's 6th largest brokerage by assets, just launched a subsidiary in Britain to expand into commodities markets with a focus on derivatives trading. Last year, Morgan Stanley was in talks to sell its commodities-trading division to China International United Petroleum &amp; Chemicals. In August, Guangzhou-based GF Securities bought French bank Natixis' commodities trading unit for $36 million. There are a number of reasons why Western banking giants like JP Morgan are getting out of the business. For one, it's risky trading, and since the financial crisis, banks have been under pressure from regulators to mitigate risk from trades on their balance sheets in order to preserve capital. And proprietary trading, as you know, is a no-no now. Another reason that Western banks have started selling these businesses is because they're simply not as profitable as they used to be. The Goldman Sachs Commodities index has dropped 57 percent since it hit its peak in 2008. Lastly, these trading units have been getting in trouble lately. For example, The Federal Energy Regulating Commission recently fined JP Morgan's energy trading unit $410 million for manipulating electricity markets. That unit, J.P. Morgan Ventures Energy Corp., trades not only physical commodities but also their derivatives. It is set to be sold, potentially, along with the bank's metals futures brokerage. For some, the news that China's banks are picking up these businesses is problematic for three reasons. Firstly, some observers are skeptical that China's banks have the infrastructure to set up commodities-trading units so quickly. Another question observers have raised is whether or not the country that produces a commodity should also be the home of all the banks that trade its derivatives. China, for example, is the No. 1 producer of steel. If the country controls the commodity and also controls the price mechanism, it could essentially place China in the driver's seat on a road it controls. Lastly, observers are worried about the health of China's banks in general. The country's Central Bank just injected liquidity into the system, and gave banks more power to write off small loans in case of a potential cash crunch ahead of the Lunar New Year. Not exactly a vote of confidence for the system in general, and risky trading requires a robust system to handle potential losses/shocks. All this together stresses the need for international banking regulation to ensure that some systems aren't taking more risk than others. But we'd all have to sit down and have a nice, long productive chat about interconnectedness for that to happen. Fat chance. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Carlos BarriaA woman shops in a Louis Vuitton store during Vogue's 4th Fashion's Night Out: Shopping Night with Celebrities in downtown Shanghai, September 7, 2012.The Hurun Report released its annual survey of China’s ultra-wealthy last week, and in addition to providing information about their luxury shopping preferences and travel destinations, the report questioned these high-net-worth individuals (HNWIs) on a host of  other details about their lives. Here are five key findings to know from the report: They want to send their children to UK boarding schools and U.S. colleges. Many Chinese HNWIs still plan to send their kids out of the country for school, and the United States is still a top choice for college. While 36 percent picked the United States as their main selection for their children’s university education, 28.7 percent said that the UK is the best choice for pre-university education. The kids getting shipped off to British boarding schools tend to be the richest: the average age among millionaires to send their kids abroad for school is 18, but for the super-rich, it’s 16.   Hurun Report via Jing Daily More than half of them want to emigrate. Partially related to the previous point, the number of Chinese HNWIs who want to emigrate rose from 60 percent last year to 64 percent in this year’s survey. This was “driven mainly by the number of super-rich who have already emigrated,” it says. One reason they want to do so is greater ease in getting their children a foreign education, which includes both private high school and college. Like their top destination for their children’s schooling, the United States remains the top emigration destination, followed by Europe and Canada. The full chart is to the left.    They’re becoming more confident in China’s economy. Although more than half want to emigrate, a growing number of China’s HNWIs think the economy is getting better. The survey found that the number of Chinese millionaires with an optimistic outlook rose for the first time in five years. It’s still pretty low: only three out of 10 say that they feel “extremely confident” about the future of the Chinese economy, but the number is up from last year’s 25 percent. In addition, the number of wealthy who are “not confident” in the economy dropped from 10 percent last year to only 3.3 percent this year. They care more about their health. The emphasis on health by China’s wealthy has grown rapidly in the last five years, according to the report. The percentage of those who do not smoke has risen to 61 percent, up from 40 percent five years ago. Their favorite sporting activities are swimming and golf, followed by jogging. The number who do not drink has increased by 12 percent to 40 percent this year. According to the survey, they also like going to the spa, and especially enjoy foot massages. Their collection choices are changing. A shaky stock market means that China’s wealthy prefer to collect hard assets. Real estate is still the most important investment, and in 2013, “the super-rich shunned equities and invested more heavily in art and alternative investments.” Traditional Chinese ink paintings were the most popular collection item, causing watches to lose their status as the top choice for the first time in five years.   FREE AppDownload
Gov. Chris Christie compared himself to JPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon this weekend in a conversation with Yahoo! News' Matt Bai in the wake of the "Bridgegate" scandal.  Earlier this month, emails were published that showed that a Christie aide knew about a controversial plan to close two traffic lanes on the George Washington Bridge in September. Christie held a long press conference where he apologized saying he was "embarrassed and humiliated."  He also fired Bridget Anne Kelly, the deputy chief of staff, who was at the center of those email discussions with Port Authority officials.   Christie compared the incident in his state of New Jersey to the "London Whale" trade at JPMorgan:  Here's what Christie told Yahoo! News (emphasis ours): [via LA Times] You couldn’t have not known what was happening. The central figure, the former deputy chief of staff Bridget Kelly, was one of your own most senior aides. “In town hall meetings all the time, and I know you’ve been to some of them, I often have said to members of the public, when they bring up an issue that I wasn’t aware of – you know, I can’t get my check for this or I can’t get a permit for that – I say, you know what one of the scariest things about being governor is? The fact that every day, 65,000 people have letterhead with my name on it and I don’t know what they’re doing all day. Now I understand that people say well, this isn’t one of the 65,000 — this is someone in your office. You know, the fact is, as I said at the press conference, Matt, if someone doesn’t tell you the truth, there is often very little you can do in reaction to that. So, no, anyone who would say that has no appreciation for what it’s like to be governor or, frankly, chief executive of any kind of major organization.  That’s like saying any of these folks who’ve been in trouble in the banking industry, like the JPMorgan Chase thing – how could Jamie Dimon not have known about a trade that was being put on by a trader in London? Well, you know, I think it’s fairly safe to say that Jamie Dimon didn’t know that a trade was being put on, and that when people lied about it, he didn’t know they were lying. So it happens. It’s awful when it does. Because it’s a breach of trust.  So I think that’s a ridiculous criticism and kind of an ignorant one. Under Dimon's leadership, JPMorgan suffered a multi-billion trading loss in the London chief investment office due to derivatives trades (a.k.a the "London Whale"). Dimon dismissed early media reports about a trader known as the "London Whale" calling it a "tempest in a teapot." Eventually, though, it was revealed that the bank suffered a $2 billion trading loss. That number changed to $5.8 billion.   As a result, Dimon was grilled on Capitol Hill before Senate and House committees.  He said that "senior management and myself should have better monitored the CIO office." FREE AppDownload
Neilson Barnard/Getty ImagesThe Palm Beach finance crowd can paddleboard whenever they please.Behind a semicircular brick drive and a lawn as manicured as a putting green sits a 30,000-square-foot masterpiece of Italian Renaissance architecture called Casa Nana. John Porter, a real estate associate for Corcoran who oversees some of the largest sales in Palm Beach County, Florida, points out the spiral staircase, built by famed 1920s architect Addison Mizner for the founder of the National Tea Company. “This home went for $30.2 million in 2003; today that sum wouldn’t be in the top 25 highest prices” of houses for sale in this area, Porter says. “Palm Beach real estate has gone from nothing going on to nothing left to sell.” Porter is giving me a tour of the so-called Billionaire’s Row, a stretch of South Ocean Boulevard on the island of Palm Beach that is bordered by some of the highest hedges I’ve ever seen. Through gaps in the greenery appear stone fountains, elephant statues, pools the size of tennis complexes (next to actual tennis complexes), and more clay roofs than one could count. It’s a monumental display of wealth, and it is rapidly expanding, not just here but in Delray Beach, Jupiter, Palm Beach Gardens and Boca Raton, as money pours out of the Northeast (and in some cases, from as far as London and Singapore) and into this already wealthy section of southeast Florida. Approximately 70 hedge and private equity funds are now headquartered here, many of which have set up shop in the last two years, jacking up home prices and spurring a countywide initiative to become, as some have said, “the new Greenwich.” For hedge fund managers who might normally be inclined toward Westchester or Connecticut, the allure of South Florida is as plain as grits on toast. The homes are sprawling; the Intracoastal Waterway is a yachter’s paradise. It has a glittering social scene. During high season—October through March—there might be several fundraisers on any given night. Perhaps the key factor, however: In Florida, there are no individual income taxes, no estate taxes and no capital gains taxes. A hedge fund manager reporting $1 million in income can expect to pay only the federal government, whereas his counterpart living in Connecticut pays that plus an extra $67,000. And if the poor schmuck were still in New York City? He’d better be ready to fork over $104,300. As for why all of this is happening now, when Florida has long been a sunny tax haven, so to speak, financiers point to the upcoming application of Section 457A of the Internal Revenue Code. Before 457A was enacted, certain fees and related earnings could grow tax deferred in offshore accounts for up to ten years. But now, according to the section, hedge fund managers will need to funnel all of the fees that were deferred before 2009 and their related earnings back into the U.S. by 2017. If a manager lives in Florida when this happens, he’s much less likely to pay exorbitant state taxes on the whole amount. If he still lived in New York City? Fuggedaboudit. It’s the job of Kelly Smallridge, president and CEO of the Palm Beach Business Development Board, to ensure that hedge fund and private equity managers are informed of these benefits, in the hopes that they, and their firms, will become Palm Beach County’s newest residents. She’s developed a red-carpet tour that goes beyond looking at office space and real estate to include meeting headmasters at private schools, the school-district superintendent and the mayor and speaking with the governor’s staff and CEOs who have moved their operations here. Plus, of course, a few nights on the town. In the winter, when the well-to-do from all over the Northeast visit Florida for charity balls, the board hosts dinners and parties for prospective relocators and local captains of industry. Last year, Smallridge and company sponsored a soiree aboard a $70 million yacht that featured Veuve Clicquot, caviar and live jazz. Guests—who included the CEOs of a national IT company, a major finance company and a land developer, venture capitalists, hedge fund managers and the creator of Goldman Sachs’ prime brokerage division—took private tours with the captain of the yacht. Smallridge is also working with former hedge fund CIO Dr. Rainford Knight to develop a club for local investment managers called SocialAlpha that encourages bankers in Palm Beach County’s ritzy social scene to get to know each other. Even Florida governor Rick Scott has gotten involved, sending personal letters to friends and prospects from the Northeast (the governor is a former Greenwich resident and businessman) to convince them of Florida’s merits. Smallridge and Governor Scott are hoping to induce a snowball effect, and so far, it seems to be working. Every financier who moves south chips away at the primary reason to remain near New York City—the fact that everyone else is there. That’s not to say it’s been easy. Florida is still Florida, and popular opinion has not been kind. Even Palm Beach, which has for the most part dodged the insults hurled at the rest of the state, is known for its residents’ apocalyptically bad driving and worse Hawaiian shirts. “There was a fair amount of trepidation,” says Al Rabil III, managing partner and CEO of Kayne Anderson Real Estate Advisors, who made the move from Armonk, New York, with 20 coworkers this summer. “But once everybody got past the stereotypes and actually came and looked, that changed.” He says most of his employees weren’t looking for bottle service and models anyway. The majority of those who have reached the upper echelons of financial management are married with children, and the appeal of a semi-tropical paradise with luxury restaurants, year-round recreation, and sophisticated socializing in a community far more tight-knit than Manhattan (yes, that’sDonald Trump over there) is not lost on them. Porter’s tour of Billionaire’s Row was part of a modified version of one of the Business Development Board’s red-carpet tours that I took as part of researching this story. I ate breakfast at the clubby Top of the Point restaurant with some of the area’s prominent financiers. A waiter in a captain’s outfit served lobster rolls while a CPA, a lawyer and the executive director of the Palm Beach County Education Commission touted the area’s benefits. I surveyed real estate and office space surrounded by miles of water without once having my foot stepped on by a tourist. You can see how all this might sway someone who’s on the fence. Exploring the sugary beaches of South Florida, one starts to wonder why Wall Streeters would be on the fence at all. Between the smiling locals and the shopping on Worth Avenue, the Hiaasen-esque stereotypes recede. What remains are the facts: Take-home pay is higher, commutes are shorter, and it’s just as fabulous as Manhattan, at least for four months of the year. Meanwhile, no one in Florida even owns an ice scraper. With the Internet allowing more and more money managers to perform their work from nearly anywhere, there are few reasons not to make the move. “Initially, it was a way to play golf and keep the wife and kids happy,” says Brett Langbert, managing director and head of sales at I.A. Englander &amp; Co. “But once we moved down, it became a quality-of-life issue. There are unlimited things the kids can do outside. I have to tell you, my wife and I are so happy we haven’t had to go to one of those indoor bouncy-castle places since we got here.” RELATED: The Rise of L.A.’s Booming Start Up CultureSingapore’s Rising—and Rich—Ex-Pat Community10 Places to Eat, Drink, and Be Seen in Miami This article originally appeared at DuJour.  Copyright 2014. Follow DuJour on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Initially, deflation might actually be bullish for stocks, even causing a melt-up. That’s because central bankers are already talking about the need to act decisively now to avoid it. Another round of ultra-easy monetary policies would surely cause stock prices to soar. If deflation prevails nonetheless, the melt-up would be followed by a meltdown, worsening the deflation. In general, falling consumer prices would be bad for corporate earnings. However, companies that are able to maintain some of their pricing power and earnings growth in a deflationary environment would certainly be highly valued. Dr. Ed's Blog  Today's Morning Briefing: Deflation Scare. (1) The deflation mandate. (2) Long waves of inflation and deflation. (3) Why do central banks dread price deflation? (4) Can price deflation cause asset inflation? (5) The Rhythm of History. (6) Good vs bad deflation. (7) Bullish for bonds. (8) Asset classes and deflation. (9) Deflation hits retailers. (10) Disinflation bordering on deflation in Eurozone and US. (11) “Nebraska” (+ +) and “August: Osage County” (+ +). (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
The 2014 World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, has now officially opened. Pope Francis just sent everyone here a message: World Economic ForumAny bets on what message Davos will send back? FREE AppDownload
Casey Research / YouTubeRichard RussellRichard Russell, a veteran technical analyst and author of The Dow Theory Letters, has been one of the most vocal bears on the market. Surprisingly, he has actually been in favor of buying stocks as he believes the market is in full-blown bubble-mode.  But this is all in the context of impending doom, which he has been writing about for years. In his latest message to subscribers, he argues that everything will come to a head in 2014. Via King World News: My own stance is to stand aside and watch history unfold.  I'm not sure why, but I believe that this year is the year when the excrement hits the fan.  My instinct is to be in gold and pray that it all turns out for the best.  I think one of the main issues of the year will be the incredible disparity in income between the wealthy 1% and the rest of the population.  I believe a second bone of contention will be computers and robots taking the place of middle and lower class laborers. As I see it, we are in the latter stages of a bull market.  My feeling is that this long bull market will end in an absolute explosion of excitement as prices rise to unbelievable heights.  We are not there yet, but the trend is up, and we have not seen the end of the melt-up.  From this point on, I believe matters will accelerate, and time will be shortened.  The year 2014 should end up as one hell of a year.  Russell believes the Federal debt load has doomed the dollar. This is why he favors gold. This call is not the consensus among the market experts. But it reflects the growing group of market watchers who believe that improving economic and market conditions are all based on a shaky foundation. For more of his colorful language, head to KingWorldNews.com. FREE AppDownload
The main activity in Davos: Bloviating.Four years ago, when the folks at the World Economic Forum first invited me to Davos, I began writing a series called "The Truth About Davos." The goal of the series was to convey what the conference is actually like, instead of just reporting news or regurgitating marketing speak. This "truth about Davos," I suspected, was not necessarily going to be negative--it was just going to be truth (good, bad, funny, silly, sad, ironic, whatever). And that's what it turned out to be. Well, it's Davos time again, and, once again, the Forum has been kind enough to invite me. This year, I'm even a member of the International Media Council!  What's happened at Davos so far? Not much. Everyone's just arriving.  One exciting note: Judging from the program directory, Bono is here this year. That's just how he's listed in the participant directory, by the way: "BONO." And under his name, there's an email address and a cell phone number. Shinzo Abe is also supposed to make an appearance. And Matt Damon. And John Kerry. (No Charlize Theron this year, though. Sadly.) One side-effect of being a member of the International Media Council is that you get some official duties, so that will leave me less time to regale you with the truth about Davos. Fortunately, my colleague Joe Weisenthal, Executive Editor of Business Insider, is also here this year, and he's already writing up a storm. ("This Bank Just Welcomed Marissa Mayer To Davos With A Special Advertisement.")  So, as we experience Davos, you'll experience Davos. In the meantime, here's a selection of what we've learned in previous years... THE TRUTH ABOUT DAVOS: FREE AppDownload
The "asset quilt" below shows returns of major asset classes in each of the last 13 years, as well as returns over the total 13-year span. The best-performing investments: emerging-market stocks, gold, and real estate investment trusts. The worst-performing investments: commodities, market-neutral hedge funds, and the S&amp;P 500. In a note to clients, Oppenheimer chief investment strategist John Stoltzfus writes: The more consistent outperformance of assets such as emerging markets, gold and REITs in 12 of the 13 years just ended makes sense to us as the effects of greater leverage, whether based in monetary, fiscal, corporate or household policy, tends to favor classic inflation hedges such as these. The inclusion of the emerging markets (EMs) with gold and REITs as an outperformer in the period makes sense to us and more than likely points to the emerging markets as being favorably tied to hard assets, either as a source in the discovery or production of the same, or EMs' dependence on materials as an input for production that is ultimately designated to meet export demand. That said, commodities themselves were poor performers overall. For us, the total return quilt points to the quintessential importance of the age-old adage, "Don’t keep all your eggs in one basket." Diversification across asset classes is a key discipline not to be taken lightly or ignored by investors, particularly those who care for performance year to year. Oppenheimer FREE AppDownload
"The Wolf of Wall Street" may not have used special effects to the same scale as, say, "Life of Pi" or "The Hunger Games," but the Martin Scorsese-directed, Oscar nominated film subtly used VFX to add that extra pizzazz to Jordan Belfort's colorful life. Brainstorm Digital recently released a video showing the before-and-after "of the more challenging shots we put together" from the film, so we broke it down below. Remember that wild party scene in the Hamptons where Belfort, played by Leonardo DiCaprio, first met his future second wife? Here's what it looked like in the final cut of the film audiences saw in theaters:Vimeo/Brainstorm Digital/"Wolf of Wall Street" But here's what the house and surroundings looked like originally:Vimeo/Brainstorm Digital/"Wolf of Wall Street" Special effects were used to replace the trees and parking lot...Vimeo/Brainstorm Digital/"Wolf of Wall Street" ... with a neighborhood of houses:Vimeo/Brainstorm Digital/"Wolf of Wall Street" So that it ended up looking like this from afar:Vimeo/Brainstorm Digital/"Wolf of Wall Street" Then there's this scene in which a real lion parades through the office:Vimeo/Brainstorm Digital/"Wolf of Wall Street" No people were actually in the room at the same time as the lion, who was escorted on a leash by a trained professional during filming:BrainstormDigital/Vimo/"Wolf of Wall Street" The people were placed in the shot in the editing room, and the lion trainer removed:Vimeo/Brainstorm Digital/"Wolf of Wall Street" In the film, Jordan Belfort marries his second wife Naomi on a beautiful tropical island:Vimeo/Brainstorm Digital/"Wolf of Wall Street" But here's what the property actually looked like during filming:Vimeo/Brainstorm Digital/"Wolf of Wall Street" The wedding set-up was later cut out...Vimeo/Brainstorm Digital/"Wolf of Wall Street" ... And placed on a beach backdrop:Vimeo/Brainstorm Digital/"Wolf of Wall Street" When Jordan goes to London to visit Aunt Emma, she greets him outside of her fancy apartment:Vimeo/Brainstorm Digital/"Wolf of Wall Street" The scene was really shot at this small brick home:Vimeo/Brainstorm Digital/"Wolf of Wall Street" And later edited through special effects:Vimeo/Brainstorm Digital/"Wolf of Wall Street" The two later go have a chat in a picturesque London park:Vimeo/Brainstorm Digital/"Wolf of Wall Street" This is what the park really looked like. Note the added sculpture to the left and greener grass above.Vimeo/Brainstorm Digital/"Wolf of Wall Street" Jordan and Naomi later take a trip to Europe on his yacht:Vimeo/Brainstorm Digital/"Wolf of Wall Street" Here's what it really looked like when Naomi was walking back to the boat:Vimeo/Brainstorm Digital/"Wolf of Wall Street" Now watch even more before-and-after scenes in this video put together by "Wolf of Wall Street" special effects team, Brainstorm Digital.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kathryn HansenICESCAPE scientist Karen Frey takes optical measurements in a melt pond in the Arctic Ocean, June 11, 2012.TROMSOE, Norway (Reuters) - New shipping rules are soon to be agreed for the Arctic, where summer sea ice has shrunk by about two-thirds over three decades, opening a new ocean with vast natural resources. Maritime nations are close to a landmark deal on the Polar Code, aimed to improve safety, lead to lower insurance premiums and help the rise of traffic, industry insiders said. About a tenth of the world's undiscovered oil and close to a third of its undiscovered gas is thought to lie under Arctic waters. The Northern Sea Route along Russia's edge can reduce the sailing distance between Asian ports and Northern Europe by 40 percent. A draft of the code could be finalized by members of the International Maritime Organization (IMO) this week and go into force by 2016, ending years of delays, Sturla Henriksen, the director general of Norwegian Shipowners' Association said. "There are no international conventions which regulate Arctic shipping operations, so in principle the same rules apply for sunny sailing in the Mediterranean as for the Arctic," Henriksen told Reuters on the sidelines of a conference. "It's a cold place, it has a hostile climate, it's enshrouded in darkness half of the year, weather is violent and extreme, distances are vast, the area is remote from large population centers, it's sparsely populated and it's far from basic infrastructure," Henriksen added. Only 71 ships crossed the Northern Sea Route last year, compared to the 18,000 handled by the Suez Canal, but about a 1,000 vessels traveled into the high Arctic, with much of the growth coming from oil and gas activity, particularly in Russia. The Polar Code will set stringent rules on pollution, safety of life, training, certification and watch keeping. It will prescribe ship properties including required ice class and set uniform rules for all vessels in all of the polarcountries. Under the current rules, any vessel traveling into the high Arctic - defined as above 72 degrees north - had to agree on a separate policy with its insurer with unique conditions negotiated for each vessel and each journey. "The Polar Code is a very good step forward, we endorse it but it is just a step forward, we can't stop now," said Stein Are Hansen, the Assistant Director of the Norwegian Hull Club, a mutual marine insurance firm. "Any risk mitigation measures that produce fewer insurance claims will of course on average make insurance prices go down," Hansen said, adding that better search and rescue, improved maps and more icebreakers were still needed. If the draft is approved this week, it could get a final approval before the end of the year and go into force 18 to 24 months later. The code does not deal with the problem of ballast water discharge, which often introduces non native species to a region, and continues to allow vessels to use heavy fuel oil, a risk as the fuel would contaminate waters in case of an accident. "We are concerned that there are important aspects that the Polar Code doesn't address," Nina Jensen, the head of environmental group WWF's Norwegian branch said. (Editing by William Hardy) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Edgard GarridoStrapped for cash amid the financial crisis, the New York Times struck a deal with the world's second-richest man, mobile-phone magnate Carlos Slim, who made a $250 million investment. That bought the Times some time — it didn't have to hawk chunks of its business as both newspapering and the economy at large crumbled fast.  It wasn't exactly like Slim needed the cash, but it turned out to be a pretty sweet deal for him. Bloomberg's Edmund Lee reports that Slim's profit from the loan stands at $263 million when you factor in interest, premiums, and warrants. From Bloomberg: [Slim] already has earned $122 million from his loan to the Times, based on an annual interest rate of 14 percent and a 12 percent premium charged to the company when its debt to Slim was redeemed in 2011. Under the terms of the loan, the Times still owes Slim additional shares worth as much as $141 million based on the Jan. 17 stock price, thanks to options he received to buy shares at what is now a deep discount. Interestingly, if Slim wants to keep his shares, he would own a fifth of the Times Co., Lee notes. Read the full report at Bloomberg » FREE AppDownload
Wen Jiabao, the former Premier of China who stepped down last spring, sounds scared. This weekend he wrote a letter to a columnist in Hong Kong denying any abuse of power during his rule, according to the South China Morning Post. But Wen hasn't been accused of anything yet. That isn't to say he doesn't have reason to worry. Over the last few months since President Xi Jinping took power, party power broker after party power broker has gone down in a wide-reaching graft probe. Most recently, the party launched an investigation into China's former security chief, Zhou Yongkang, for corruption and “violating party discipline." In 2012, the New York Times published that Wen had accumulated $2.7 billion in hidden wealth during his rule. Knowing that, his letter makes a bit more sense. Here's what Wen wrote (from SCMP): "I have never been involved and would not get involved in one single deal of abusing my power for personal gain because no such gains whatsoever could shake my convictions," Wen said in the letter to Ng Hong-mun, a former deputy to the National People's Congress, on December 27... "I want to walk the last journey in this world well. I came to this world with bare hands and I want to leave this world clean," Wen wrote in the letter. If Wen is accused of corruption, he'll top Zhou as the highest ranking official ever to be taken down since the Communist Party took power in 1949. At the end of last year a post called, 'You're Nothing Without The Motherland' went viral in China. It decried Western powers and their influence on the country, and more importantly, lauded Xi Jinping for his ability to capture 'big tigers' — corrupt officials doing damage to the country. It was an example of a strain of nationalistic propaganda (and intellectual thought) coming to the fore in China that wishes to see Xi in control of everything.  Academics call it 'neo-authoritarianism' and it argues that, China needs a strongman who also believes in capitalism to really get China's economy in gear. Everyone else can sit down and enjoy the ride. Xiao Gongqin, a history professor at Shanghai Normal University started arguing this in the 1980s, and based it on Deng Xiaping, an authoritarian economic reformer. All that said, what we may be seeing with these probes is a consolidation of power on Xi Jinping's part. Since the Third Plenum, a meeting on Chinese political and economic reforms, he's taken leadership of the Central Finance and Economy Lending group — the group that decides on economic reform — from the office of Premier Li Keqiang, and put under the office of the President. That's one solid example. Wen Jiabao's take down may be the next one.     FREE AppDownload
APWhile much of the world's attention on Russia remains focused on Sochi, host of the bizarrely expensive 2014 Winter Olympics, there's something else is being discussed in the halls of Russian power: a permanent shift to winter time. Not only would such a shift have a near-universal effect on the Russian populace, but it also has a deeper meaning than it might at first glance. According to a report in the Moscow Times, more than 100 deputies from the four Duma factions have signed a bill that would move the clocks back one hour in Russia year-round. This isn't the first time in recent history that Russians have been forced to play around with the settings on their clocks. Back in 2011, then-President Dimitry Medvedev moved the country from a daylights savings system, like the one used in the U.S., to permanent summer time. Medvedev cited a report from  the Russian Academy of Medical Sciences, which stated that when the clocks are changed, the number of heart attacks increases by 1.5 times and the rate of suicides grows by 66%. After the 2011 switch, however, critics of Medvedev complained that their laptops and phones often had daylight savings settings in-built into them, and that changing these twice a year was an unnecessary nuisance. There were issues for banks with international business when dealing with other companies abroad. In some regions, the sun would rise around 9 a.m., and some of the anti-government protesters who hit the streets of Moscow in December 2011 complained that the clock change was typical of the bloody-minded, yet pointless style of Russian governance. With another switch reportedly a foregone conclusion, you have to wonder, why keep fiddling with the clocks? Sergei Kalashnikov, head of the Duma Committee on Public Health and a member of the Liberal Democratic Party, is one of the architects of the new bill. He clearly disagrees with Medvedev's original reasoning. “After a government consumer rights agency released data on the state of health in the country it is evident that nothing can compensate for the harm inflicted by the time scheme that currently exists in Russia,” he said, according to Russia Today. Other supporters of the change note that it would put Russia one hour closer to European time zones, and thus make it easier to do business. There are also reports that a return to daylight saving time could be in the cards. There's a deeper reasoning at work here too, however. Perhaps the best way to think about the original shift is to consider it in the context of Medvedev's presidency and, more importantly, his legacy. Medvedev was president from 2008 to 2012, a relatively brief interlude after Vladimir Putin's two terms and return to the Kremlin two years ago (Putin was barred from a third consecutive term by Russian law). He was initially greeted as a welcome change from his mentor, and favored by many of Russia's middle class, who longed for reform. Despite high-profile campaigns against corruption, however, reform never truly happened, and by 2011 it was pretty clear that Medvedev was just a placeholder for Putin. In what appeared to be a last-ditch attempt to avoid a lame duck presidency, he pushed the eternal summer time law through. What better way to create a legacy than to change the very concept of time for an entire nation of people? Of course, time is always a controversial business, and there had been reports of a reversal as early as 2012. Russian journalist Masha Gessen wrote then of a rumored deal between Putin and Medvedev to keep the summer time law in place, in order to spare Medvedev from humiliation at the end of his term. Apparently that deal is over: Putin has publicly expressed his annoyance with permanent summer time, and the latest reports suggest the Kremlin is firmly behind the new timing. It's a reminder — It's Putin's Russia, and winter is coming. FREE AppDownload
The three stocks are helping pull the Dow down 132 points (and because the Dow is a price-weighted index, stocks with higher per-share prices jolt the index around more). The companies actually posted solid earnings, but have fallen this morning nonetheless. Travelers reported $2.68 earnings per share, better than the $2.16 estimate. The stock is trading down 2%. Verizon posted $0.66 EPS, beating the Wall Street consensus by a penny. It's trading down almost 2% also. Finally, Johnson &amp; Johnson beat earnings expectations by $0.04, but guided 2014 estimates toward the lower end of market expectations and is also down 2%. FREE AppDownload
CNN screenshotThe real-life "Wolf of Wall Street" Jordan Belfort got grilled on CNN by Piers Morgan last night when Morgan forced him to go through a list of people who had lost hundreds of thousands of dollars because of Belfort's dirty dealings. Back in the 1990s, Belfort ran a boiler room on Long Island called Stratton Oakmont. Belfort and his stockbrokers pushed penny stocks and defrauded investors. Belfort served 22 months in federal prison. He was also ordered to pay back $110 million to his victims.  Belfort wrote a tell-all memoir chronicling his boozy, drug fueled, high-flying Wall Street lifestyle.  His book was adapted into a movie directed by Martin Scorsese and starring Leonardo DiCaprio. (Read Linette Lopez's movie review here) There's been a lot of criticism that the film glorified Belfort instead of focusing on the victims who lost money with Stratton Oakmont.    On CNN last night, Morgan read off names of victims who suffered losses ($250,000 and $130,000) because of Belfort's boiler room. Things got a little tense when Morgan started asking Belfort about his victims and whether or not he's reached out to them personally.  Morgan: "That's why I'm surprised you would then say that you didn't think thousands of people lost their money or ..." Belfort: "You said life savings."  Morgan: "Some of them did, right?" Belfort: "I don't know anyone who lost their life savings ... Again, I'm not saying that makes it right. Let's just be accurate here."  Morgan: "How do you feel about these people losing a lot of money and in some cases having their lives turned upside down? Belfort: "I think it's awful. It's terrible. I think it's terrible." Morgan: "On a human level, have you ever met any of them? Have you ever met one of your victims?" Belfort: "Ummm, I have not."   Morgan: "Why not?" Belfort: "No one has sought me out." Morgan: "Why haven't you sought them out?" Belfort: "You know, I don't want to intrude on anyone's life and."  Morgan: "Come on! That's a cop out."  Belfort: "No, it's not. I don't think it's appropriate to seek my victims out."  Morgan: "Wouldn't part of your self-redemption be to actually track some of these people down? We know some of their names. We know what they're saying about you. If you actually called them up and said, 'I'd actually like to talk to you. I would like to apologize personally to you for what happened."  Belfort: [chuckles] "I've never really considered it before. But I think a better way for me is the next fifteen years to go around the world and continue to speak and do my stuff. All the money that flows in. I think actions speak louder than words. I think by doing what I'm doing here by turning over 100 percent of the profits is probably the most genuine thing I can do."  Belfort said that he feels awful about what happened in the past and that he's trying actively to right the wrongs.  Watch the rest of the interview below:    FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jonathan ErnstBen Bernanke could land at The Brookings Institution after his term as Federal Reserve chairman, the Wall Street Journal's Jon Hilsenrath ponders in a new report. Worth noting: The common refrain about Hilsenrath is that he's the best-connected journalist at the Fed (so much so that markets teeter on his every keystroke).  Hilsenrath's evidence: Bernanke's term doesn't end until the end of the month, so don't expect any big announcement until after Janet Yellen takes over. Read the full report at the Wall Street Journal » FREE AppDownload
Feng Li / GettyLinkedIn (LNKD) might find itself in the most enviable position among social media companies vying for China’s hearts — namely, the company least likely to piss off China. The biggest weapon in the fight against tyranny isn’t guns or armies or allies — it’s the free exchange of ideas. Chinese Communist Party officials are fully aware of this weapon, and it’s why they’ve stepped up efforts to crack down on what’s known as “online rumors.” This is the euphemism the Chinese government uses to describe the speech and social interaction taking place on so-called “microblog” sites such as the Twitter (TWTR)-style Sina Corp. (SINA) Weibo platform. Hey, if you’re a collectivist government, the last thing you want is people using a platform that functions as a virtual town square for citizens to speak out about things they don’t like about the government, the economy, the social system, state corruption — and whatever else they find fault with. You see, criticism of the state is a threat to the state, and the state doesn’t do threats. While the crackdown on online rumors has singled out the Sina Weibo microblog platform, the government isn’t likely to stop there. In fact, Chinese officials have already telegraphed their intentions to put tighter controls on social media, including mobile messaging applications like Tencent Holdings’ (TCEHY) WeChat service — a recent beneficiary of Chinese migration from Weibo. Already, there’s been a decided decline in the number of microblog users due in part to the increased government censorship efforts. According to a report released last Thursday from the official China Internet Network Information Center, the number of microblog users in China fell to 280.8 million from 308.6 million a year earlier. That’s a 9% decrease year over year, and it’s a number not commensurate with the continued growth of China’s total Internet users. In fact, the very same report said China’s total number of Internet users continued to expand in 2013, with the country adding 54 million users, meaning China now has 618 million Internet users. To give you a sense of size here, by comparison, China’s Internet population is almost double the entire population of the United States. Revelations of the decline in Sina’s microblogging population caused SINA stock to drop hard Friday, while shares of Tencent spiked on the news. Still, if I were a TCEHY shareholder, I wouldn’t shrug off the possibility that the government will come for me next. Indeed, wherever there’s a free exchange of ideas (i.e., wherever the government perceives a threat), they will likely move to protect their power. We’ve seen this move already in the prime example of Google (GOOG). The Internet search engine has been censored in the country, and over the years there’s been an ongoing struggle between Google and the Chinese government. That battle is one reason why China’s Google, Baidu.com (BIDU), has remained the most popular search engine in the country. Another high-profile example of censorship came in 2009, when China blocked Facebook (FB) and Twitter following deadly riots in the western province of Xinjiang, believing the social networks helped fan the flames. While in September, Chinese officials relaxed the ban on Facebook and Twitter, they did so only for those living in a 17-square-mile radius of a new free-trade zone in Shanghai. Given the “thought police” elements in the Chinese government, the question that came to my mind is: “Is there a social media-type company that Chinese officials wouldn’t be quick to censor?” Here I think the best social media candidate for immunity from control is LinkedIn. Although LNKD is considered a social media company, its platform isn’t used as a communication tool to spread what the government would consider malignant ideas. It’s actually more of a site that would foster the “proper” behavior from Chinese citizens. In other words, comb your hair, compliment the party, work for the collective and don’t say anything objectionable. Already, LNKD realizes its platform might fit well into the Chinese matrix. That’s probably why the company now has hired its first president of China operations. Interestingly, the announcement came via LinkedIn, as new China president Derek Shen revealed he has held the new position for a month now, and he did it on his LinkedIn page. While LinkedIn’s presence in China is still relatively small, with a reported 3 million members as of April, LNKD appears to see the growth potential of its product in this user-rich online environment, and hence its steps to expand its presence in the country. Given that LinkedIn’s product isn’t likely represent a threat to the regime, LNKD is the most likely company to be immune from the trolling eyes of the China’s thought police — and that means it’s probably safe from a Sina-like crackdown. At least for now. As of this writing, Jim Woods did not hold a position in any of the aforementioned securities. FREE AppDownload
Last week's press preview of the 2014 Detroit Auto Show marked the final days before new CEO Mary Barra officially took the helm of General Motors. A 30-year GM veteran, Barra is the first woman to run a major automaker. She is also only the second GM CEO in the past half-century to come from the product side of the business. Dan Akerson, the outgoing CEO, had previously run Nextel and XO Communications. He was named to the automaker's board of directors to represent the U.S. Treasury during the 2009 bailout. In a group interview at the auto show, we asked Mark Reuss, who has taken over Barra's old role as the global chief of product development, how things will change now that GM is being run by a product person. “I think she knows a lot about the product, as I do," he said. "We experienced the product mistakes, we experienced the car development mistakes from a financial standpoint that we made in the past. "And so that depth of understanding of those mistakes and what we’ve done, the success of turning that to a different place, is pretty profound on how you run the business. So I think those things will serve her really well in the decisions that we make in different regions and different portfolios and different approaches to product development, and the success of the company. I know it will,” Reuss said. Because Barra (along with Reuss, who was also a contender for the CEO job) lived through the dark days of bankruptcy and the success of the past few years, she deeply understands what works and what doesn't. The key metric for success, in Reuss's view, is loyalty rates — the customers who buy one GM car, and come back for another. "That's the ultimate view for doing it right," and "it's worth a lot of money" — about $700 million for one percentage point. Reuss is happy with where GM stands on design and value, he said. But it takes a long time to build that crucial loyalty. "Now we gotta do that for a while, we’ve gotta do that for a long while, to erase what people thought of this company and their products for decades ... I think we have to do that over and over and over again,” he said. FREE AppDownload
The two spoke at Societe Generale’s annual research conference in London on Jan. 14. Edwards is the firm’s global strategist. Grice is the director of research at Edelweiss Holdings, a Zurich-based investment manager. Prior to that, Grice worked alongside Edwards at Societe Generale. “We are one recession, one slip away from outright deflation, both in the euro zone and in the U.S.,” Edwards said. That would adversely affect equities, he said. If that message wasn’t sufficiently foreboding, Grice warned of a societal breakdown that would be far more disruptive. The financial markets measure trust through yield, according to Grice. Investors should not be lulled into assuming today’s record-low yields (in both equities and bonds) imply similarly low degrees of risk. That is incongruous with current political developments, he said. “It is wrong. It is the last hurrah,” Grice said. “This is not just an economic but a social phenomenon.” Beware a deflationary bust Edwards cited a number of indicators indicative of impending deflation. “Actual inflation is crumbling away downwards,” he said. Both core and headline inflation – including measures of food and energy – are trending lower in the U.S. and the euro zone, according to Edwards. He claimed that the European Central Bank is not worried about this and, in fact, might believe deflation would help Spain or Italy become more competitive. Edwards said this line of reasoning was “ludicrous,” given the debt burdens those two countries bear. Weakness in the U.S. labor markets is another indicator. Edwards cited a recent commentary by PIMCO’s Bill Gross, who wrote that household employment, which has been a reliable leading indicator of non-farm payrolls, has been very weak for the last year – running at a pace of approximately 100,000 new jobs per month. Economists’ projections for inflation have trended down steadily over the last year, according to data Edwards presented. But in the U.S., economists continue to expect inflation above 2%, which he said is seriously disconnected from the data. Edwards sarcastically remarked that he knows there is a deflation problem when, in his own country, the Bank of England was able to hit its inflation target of 2% for the first time in almost four years. But investors remain confident in the central banks’ ability to avert deflation, which Edwards said explains why markets have not priced in this scenario. Japan will pay a key role in the oncoming deflation, according to Edwards. “Japan is fiscally bust and they have no option but to print, print and print,” he said. That will weaken the yen, and Japan will export its deflation to the rest of the world. Other Asian exporters – Edwards mentioned Korea and Thailand – will be forced to weaken their currencies, pushing more deflation into the developed markets. A similar phenomenon occurred in 1995-97, according to Edwards, when Japan’s weakening of the yen triggered the Asian crisis. “You will see waves of deflation coming into the U.S. and the euro zone at a time when profits are already stagnant or slightly falling,” he said. That will pressure companies based in the developed markets. Corporate cutbacks are the key risk of a recession, he said. Cuts in investment and inventories will be a precursor to falling profits and headcount reductions. Odds of a recession are increasing, Edwards said, as the current recovery nears its sixth anniversary. He said the median length of economic recoveries has been only 36 months. Our minds are “polluted,” he said, because the last three cycles were lengthened due to central bank intervention. Profits, labor costs and productivity in the U.S. have been a “big fat zero,” Edwards said. “That is all associated with a cycle which is already long in the tooth.” Indeed, Edwards said that sentiment regarding inflation could trigger lower equity prices. Inflation expectations are firmly anchored between 1.5% and 2.5%, he said, and if inflation drops below 1.5%, “you can get a massive equity market reaction.” That sentiment has been reinforced by the market’s belief that central banks will ease at the first hint of deflation, Edwards said, and that will buoy the prices of “risk assets.” But Edwards said one of the most important developments in 2013 was that commodity prices fell, despite the third round of quantitative easing (QE). “It is wrong to assume that equities will always go up if there is a QE4 or QE5,” Edwards said. Fundamentals drive equities, Edwards said, and the current secular bear market can “break” easily. He cited a number of measures – including Shiller’s CAPE and Tobin’s Q – that indicate overvaluation. “I would expect in the next recession to bottom at about 7.5-times trough earnings,” he said. “That is why I still remain so bearish.” “If you invest at very expensive valuations you are condemned to poor long-term returns,” he said. Even though his ice age thesis is imperiled by the recent convergence of cumulative equity and bond returns, Edwards – citing research by John Hussman – warned that a few years of equity gains can be easily wiped out in a few months of bad performance. Edwards offered a final omen of poor prospective market performance – the appointment of Janet Yellen. Tongue-in-cheek, he showed what he considers a “guaranteed” relationship between market returns and the height of Fed chairpersons. Edwards’ pick for Fed chairman would have been Magic Johnson, who at 6’10” would have assured good long-term performance.    FREE AppDownload
Last year, 3.3 million young adults in the U.K. between the ages of 20 and 34 were living with a parent or parents, according to new data from Office for National Statistics. That's 26% of the age group. As a comparison, 2.7 million lived at home in 1996, marking a 25% increase. As the FT notes, the figure further highlights the "pressure faced by a younger generation hit by increasing housing costs and a difficult jobs market." London in particular has seen sky-high real estate prices in recent months, driven in large part by foreign buyers. From the ONS: ONS The report also found that young men were more likely to live at home than young women. And for those living at home, the unemployment rate was more than double than those who don't. ONS FREE AppDownload
Now that we know China's air pollution problem is impacting the air here in the United States, it's important to understand what that pollution is doing to public health in China. According to a new study, it could be taking up to 16 years off people's lives. The study was published in the journal BMJ (a journal formerly known as the British Medical Journal), and conducted by a group of doctors and professors at the University of Queensland, Brisbane; the  Department of Peking University Third Hospital, Beijing; the Peking University School of Public Health, Beijing, China; and the Chinese Research Academy of Environmental Sciences, Beijing, China. Instead of focusing on the number of air pollution-related deaths, the group decided to focus on the number of years of life lost due to pollution (YLL). In other words, what pollution is doing to future, rather than present public health. Here's how the study worked — the group collected mortality data from eight different districts in Beijing dated from 2004 to 2008. They also monitored air quality on the main campus of Peking University, which is located in the city in residential/commercial (not industrial area). That allowed them to know what kinds of chemicals filled the air during more polluted days and less polluted days. They then compared YLL over time with "the percentage change in daily mortality associated with changes in air pollutants." What they found was that increases of certain toxic chemicals were "related to YLL increases of 15.8, 15.8, 16.2, and 15.1 years, respectively. The effects of air pollutants on YLL appeared acutely and lasted for two days..." According to the group's findings, pollutants hurt women and young people more than they hurt men and those aged over 65 years-old. In other words, increased pollution is having an adverse effect on an entire generation of young Chinese people that have grown up in the country's relatively new, industrialized economy. From the study: One crucial finding was that the estimated effects of air pollution were greater on the younger group of people than older group for YLL. The potential reason is that the measurement of YLL takes into account those conditions afflicting young people or children. Giving the same weight to deaths occurring at different ages could distort policy priorities and resource allocation.22 Most studies report that mortality risks related to air pollution are greater for older people than younger people.23 24 Our study suggests that focusing on death counts only could underestimate the burden of air pollution on young people.  If that isn't a problem, not sure what is. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
IMFNew forecasts for the world's largest economies from the IMF's January 2014 World Economic Outlook.The International Monetary Fund just released its January 2014 World Economic Outlook. In the report — titled "Is the tide rising?" — the Fund upgrades its 2014 global growth forecast to 3.7% from the previous 3.6% estimate released in October, with growth accelerating to 3.9% in 2015. The IMF sees the U.S. economy expanding 2.8% this year after forecasting 2.6% growth in October. It also now predicts Japan's economy will grow 1.7% this year, up from its 1.2% estimate in October, and sees Chinese economic growth at 7.5% versus 7.3%. Growth forecasts for the euro area are 1% in 2014 (up from 0.9%) and 1.4% in 2015 (up from 1.3%). The outlook stresses the risk of "very low inflation" in advanced economies and asserts that those countries should keep monetary policy accommodative. FREE AppDownload
Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway and Dan Gilbert's Quicken Loans are partnering to award anyone who fills out a perfect 2014 Men's NCAA Tournament bracket with $1 billion. Quicken is running the contest, and is paying Berkshire to serve as "insurer," which means they'll be the ones paying out if someone wins. The prize will be paid out in 40 annual installments of $25 million. If there's more than one winner they'll have to share. The winner or winners can also take or split up an immediate $500 million lump sum payment. "It is our mission to create amazing experiences for our clients. This contest, with the possibility of creating a billionaire, definitely fits that bill," Jay Farner, President and Chief Marketing Officer of Quicken Loans said in a statement. He added: "We've seen a lot of contests offering a million dollars for putting together a good bracket, which got us thinking, what is the perfect bracket worth? We decided a billion dollars seems right for such an impressive feat."  In addition to the grand prize, Quicken will award $100,000 each to the contest's 20 most accurate 'imperfect' brackets submitted by qualified entrants in the contest to use toward buying, refinancing or remodeling a home. Quicken will also donate $1 million to inner-city Detroit and Cleveland non-profit organizations. Quicken is based in Detroit, but Gilbert owns the Cleveland Cavaliers and the city's Horseshoe Casino. The odds are not ideal — a 1 in 9.2 quintillion chance. But it costs nothing to fill out so you should probably do it. The contest starts March 3rd. "March Madness" kicks off March 18.     FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/John SchultsIt's been a cold winter in the Northeast, with a "polar vortex" arriving earlier this year and a new winter snow storm on the way.  That means the hats, scarves, and gloves will be sticking around for a while.  So we put together a list of the 11 must-have accessories for men this season, from a hat with built-in headphones to a pair of sunglasses perfect for a day out in the snow. FREE AppDownload
Self-described "finance nerd" Candace Kendall was crowned Miss New York USA 2014 this weekend.  The brunette model beat 177 other women for the crown at the Performing Arts Center in Purchase,  New York. For the pageant, Kendall graced the runway wearing a stunning off the shoulder red gown.  According to her Twitter page, she holds degrees in finance and accounting.  She held the Miss Teen New York USA title back in 2006.  This June, Kendall will compete against 50 other women at the Miss USA pageant, which will be held at Donald Trump's Doral Golf Resort and Spa in Florida. Trump is the owner of the Miss Universe Organization, which hosts the Miss USA pageant.  The current Miss USA, Erin Brady, was an accountant based in Connecticut before she won.       FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Steve MarcusActivist investor Daniel Loeb has taken a significant position in Dow Chemical and is calling for strategic review.  He posted his investment thesis on website HVST.com. That's the same website Kyle Bass posted his thesis on GM.   Dow Chemical is now Third Point's largest positon. The stock is up more than 6% in the pre-market. Here's the thesis that's an excerpt from Third Point's quarterly letter:  Title: “Third Point Takes Significant Dow Position; Calls for Strategic Review” Third Point LLC discusses for the first time an investment in The Dow Chemical Company this morning on Hvst.com. The following is an excerpt from the firm’s Quarterly Investor Letter dated January 21, 2014: The Dow Chemical Company Third Point’s largest current investment is in The Dow Chemical Company (“Dow”). Dow shares have woefully underperformed over the last decade, generating a return of 46% (including dividends) compared to a 199% return for the S&amp;P 500 Chemicals Index and a 101% return for the S&amp;P 500. Dow shares for the same price that they trade at today! These results reflect a poor operational track record across multiple business segments, a history of under-delivering relative to management’s guidance and expectations, and the ill-timed acquisition of Rohm &amp; Haas. The company’s weak performance is even more surprising given that the North American shale gas revolution has been a powerful tailwind for Dow’s largest business exposure – petrochemicals. We believe that Dow would best serve shareholders’ interests by engaging outside advisors toconduct a formal assessment of whether the current petrochemical operational strategymaximizes profits and if these businesses align with Dow’s goal of transforming into a “specialty” chemicals company. The review should explicitly explore whether separating Dow’s petrochemical businesses via a spin-off would drive greater stakeholder value. Dow’s petrochemical operational strategy has been to migrate downstream, supposedly to earnhigher margins, to become more “specialty,” and to increase the number of customer-facingproducts. Over the past five years, the shale revolution in North America has led to a boom innatural gas liquids production which has dramatically reduced raw material costs, while Chinaand other emerging market economies have aggressively grown downstream derivatives capacity. This combination has led to significant upstream margin expansion in North America, where Dow is the largest ethylene producer, and a commoditization of numerous downstream derivatives margins. Dow’s current petrochemical strategy seems misaligned with the changed landscape. Perhaps unsurprisingly, our analysis suggests that Dow’s downstream migration strategy within petrochemicals has not yielded material benefits so far and instead may be a significant drag on  1. Capital IQ data as of 1/10/14. Includes stock appreciation plus dividends paid. Indeed, in April 1999, nearly 15 years ago, an investor could have purchased profitability. We have examined Dow’s aggregate petrochemical capacities (and associated industry product margins) and compared its petrochemical cost base and profitability with pure-play peers. Our work suggests that upside from both cost-cutting and operating optimization could amount to several billion dollars in annual EBITDA. We suspect that Dow’s push downstream has led the company to use its upstream assets to subsidize certain downstream derivatives either by sacrificing operational efficiency or making poor capital allocation decisions, or both. Poor segment disclosure combined with Dow’s opaque and inconsistent transfer pricing methodology for internally sourced raw materials makes it difficult for shareholders (and presumably, the Board of Directors) to ascertain which business units are most challenged. What is easily ascertainable is that the magnitude of the aggregate under- earning warrants a comprehensive strategic review, preferably with the assistance of an objective outside advisor answerable to a special committee of the Board. We believe Dow should apply the intelligent logic of its recently announced chlor-alkali separation to the entirety of its petrochemical businesses by creating a standalone company housing Dow’s commodity petrochemical segments (“Dow Petchem Co.”).2 would accomplish two important objectives. First, the split would accelerate Dow’s transition to a true “specialty chemicals” company focused on attractive end-markets such as agriculture, food, pharmaceuticals, and electronics. Second, the standalone Dow Petchem Co. could realign its strategy away from largely focusing on downstream migration/integration and towards overall profit maximization. The optimization of Dow Petchem Co. combined with the significant step-up in earnings from organic growth initiatives already put in place by management – the PDH plant, the Sadara JV, and the U.S. Gulf Coast greenfield ethylene cracker – could translate into future EBITDA well in excess of $9 billion on a stand-alone basis. This would be before any improvement attributable to what management refers to as the “ethylene upcycle”. Both the “self-help” and cyclical upside opportunities create a compelling investment case, which is not reflected in Dow’s current share price considering the entire company’s 2013 EBITDA base is ~$8 billion. Despite Dow’s best efforts to migrate downstream and become a specialty chemicals company, the market remains unconvinced. By creating Dow Petchem Co., the strategic direction of these businesses would no longer be dictated by the broader Dow strategy of becoming more specialty-focused. Instead, management could transform these businesses into a best-in-class, low-cost commodity petrochemical company.  2. Dow Petchem Co. would generally consist of the Feedstocks &amp; Energy, Performance Plastics, and Performance Materials segments. The remaining Dow Chemical (“Dow Specialty Co.”)3 that Dow has aspired to become for much of the past decade. Here too, we see meaningful upside over the coming years: Dow Specialty Co. should command a premium to Dow’s current multiple, and potentially a premium to other specialty chemicals companies given its attractive EBITDA growth prospects. The market is skeptical of Dow’s divisional margin targets given the lack of clarity around how they were derived and the lack of progress toward achieving them. However, even if management fails to attain their targets, we still see the potential for Dow Specialty Co. EBITDA to ramp up to the $4-5 billion range over the next 3 to 5 years, compared to a 2013 base of ~$2.8 billion. We believe management's main concern about a spin-off of Dow Petchem Co. will likely relate to the integrated nature of Dow's overall portfolio. Importantly, the majority of the integration in Dow’s portfolio exists between upstream / downstream petrochemicals and these businesses would remain together in Dow Petchem Co. In addition, the integration between Dow Petchem Co. and Dow Specialty Co. is limited to commoditized raw material transfers. Having some amount of commoditized raw material integration does not create differentiation in specialty products nor does it materially increase margins (unless the raw material inputs are being subsidized by Dow’s petrochemical segments). The segments within Dow Specialty Co. which primarily consist of legacy Rohm &amp; Haas businesses and Dow's Agricultural Sciences segment 3. Dow Specialty Co. would generally consist of the Agricultural Sciences, Coatings &amp; Infrastructure, and Electronic &amp; Functional Materials segments have successfully operated without raw material integration in the past, or have peers that are able to achieve higher margins without any raw material integration. We appreciate this consideration; it is why we have contemplated a scenario in which both the upstream and downstream petrochemical businesses are spun-off together into Dow Petchem Co. We believe the benefits from a spin-off, including financial uplift from operational improvements at Dow Petchem Co. and the potential valuation uplift from increased business focus and disclosure, far outweigh the supposed integration benefits. Finally, as Dow management looks to further its journey in unlocking value for shareholders, it now has the balance sheet flexibility to consider a meaningful share buyback that could more than offset the share issuance from the conversion of the Warren Buffett/KIA securities issued in conjunction with the financing of the Rohm &amp; Haas acquisition. Petchem Co. spin-off, Dow could pave a path toward increased disclosure, greater managementaccountability for individual business segment performances, and enhanced alignment of interests between management and shareholders. With the difficult task of balance sheet de-levering behind it, Dow finally has the opportunity to embark on its next transformational deal during CEO Andrew Liveris’ tenure.   FREE AppDownload
This weekend former hedge fund trader-turned-philanthropist Sam Polk wrote an op-ed in The New York Times that simply explains Wall Street's problem with "wealth addiction." You may be more familiar with the term more commonly used for it — greed. What's interesting about Polk's column isn't that he grew up living paycheck to paycheck, made his way through Columbia while wrestling with an addiction to drugs and alcohol, or lied his way onto Wall Street. What is interesting about the column is that he understands that Wall Street's problem with money is tied to a very well-known, innate human desire — the desire to feel powerful (from the NYT): I felt so important. At 25, I could go to any restaurant in Manhattan — Per Se, Le Bernardin — just by picking up the phone and calling one of my brokers, who ingratiate themselves to traders by entertaining with unlimited expense accounts. I could be second row at the Knicks-Lakers game just by hinting to a broker I might be interested in going. The satisfaction wasn’t just about the money. It was about the power. Because of how smart and successful I was, it was someone else’s job to make me happy. Still, I was nagged by envy. On a trading desk everyone sits together, from interns to managing directors. When the guy next to you makes $10 million, $1 million or $2 million doesn’t look so sweet. Nonetheless, I was thrilled with my progress. The same way politicians use favors, or media moguls use their voice to hold sway, Wall Streeters use money to shape the world in their image, to swing fate in their favor. On Wall Street though, as Polk points out, the junior guys get a significant piece too. It wraps them in and makes them want more. That piece takes away from the larger pie, not that Polk's peers wanted to admit that. Any tiny attack, any suggestion that taxes should be raised, bonuses should be cut, that what was happening was unfair, was an attack on every individual's power and the power of the institutions that supported them. But in the end, it was actually my absurdly wealthy bosses who helped me see the limitations of unlimited wealth. I was in a meeting with one of them, and a few other traders, and they were talking about the new hedge-fund regulations. Most everyone on Wall Street thought they were a bad idea. “But isn’t it better for the system as a whole?” I asked. The room went quiet, and my boss shot me a withering look. I remember his saying, “I don’t have the brain capacity to think about the system as a whole. All I’m concerned with is how this affects our company.” And of course, this elevation of the company or the individual over the wider system had to be rationalized. That is why, before coming to the realization that he was a wealth addict, Polk told himself that he was smarter, that he worked harder, and that he and his peers deserved the massive pieces of the pie they were taking. They believed that their appetite was appropriate. Polk's therapist told him that, as a college student, he had been using drugs and alcohol to cope with his powerlessness. As an adult, he used money to banish it all together. It was this understanding that gave him the strength to leave the Street. None of this is to say that every Wall Streeter is a wealth addict. Polk wrote that if you have millions, and you think you have enough, you're likely not an addict. But if you have enough, and you believe you deserve more — that you deserve it more than other professions like nurses, or doctors, or other people whose purpose in society is very clear — you likely have a problem with greed. And admitting the problem is the first step to recovery. FREE AppDownload
Here's some SERIOUSLY targeted advertising. On the main street here at Davos, Credit Suisse posted a sign welcoming Marissa Mayer to Davos. At least I assume they're talking about Marissa Mayer. Joe Weisenthal, Business Insider Actually, Marissa wasn't the only notable to get a special sign from Credit Suisse. They also welcomed Matt Damon (I assume, he's here for work he's done on a water charity) and Didier Burkhalter (President of the Swiss Confederation). I had to look up the Didier. Joe Weisenthal, Business Insider And here's a sign welcoming Pepsi CEO Indra Nooyi and Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta. Joe Weisenthal Anyway, the mix of folks gives you a nice sense of the kind of names this place attracts. FREE AppDownload
The world's wealthiest people aren't known for travelling by bus, but if they fancied a change of scene then the richest 85 people on the globe – who between them control as much wealth as the poorest half of the global population put together – could squeeze onto a single double-decker. The extent to which so much global wealth has become corralled by a virtual handful of the so-called 'global elite' is exposed in a new report from Oxfam on Monday. It warned that those richest 85 people across the globe share a combined wealth of £1tn, as much as the poorest 3.5 billion of the world's population. The wealth of the 1% richest people in the world amounts to $110tn (£60.88tn), or 65 times as much as the poorest half of the world, added the development charity, which fears this concentration of economic resources is threatening political stability and driving up social tensions. It's a chilling reminder of the depths of wealth inequality as political leaders and top business people head to the snowy peaks of Davos for this week's World Economic Forum. Few, if any, will be arriving on anything as common as a bus, with private jets and helicoptors pressed into service as many of the world's most powerful people convene to discuss the state of the global economy over four hectic days of meetings, seminars and parties in the exclusive ski resort. Winnie Byanyima, the Oxfam executive director who will attend the Davos meetings, said: "It is staggering that in the 21st Century, half of the world's population – that's three and a half billion people – own no more than a tiny elite whose numbers could all fit comfortably on a double-decker bus." Oxfam also argues that this is no accident either, saying growing inequality has been driven by a "power grab" by wealthy elites, who have co-opted the political process to rig the rules of the economic system in their favour. In the report, entitled Working For The Few (summary here), Oxfam warned that the fight against poverty cannot be won until wealth inequality has been tackled. "Widening inequality is creating a vicious circle where wealth and power are increasingly concentrated in the hands of a few, leaving the rest of us to fight over crumbs from the top table," Byanyima said. Oxfam called on attendees at this week's World Economic Forum to take a personal pledge to tackle the problem by refraining from dodging taxes or using their wealth to seek political favours. As well as being morally dubious, economic inequality can also exacerbate other social problems such as gender inequality, Oxfam warned. Davos itself is also struggling in this area, with the number of female delegates actually dropping from 17% in 2013 to 15% this year. Polling for Oxfam's report found people in countries around the world - including two-thirds of those questioned in Britain - believe that the rich have too much influence over the direction their country is heading. Byanyima explained: "In developed and developing countries alike we are increasingly living in a world where the lowest tax rates, the best health and education and the opportunity to influence are being given not just to the rich but also to their children. "Without a concerted effort to tackle inequality, the cascade of privilege and of disadvantage will continue down the generations. We will soon live in a world where equality of opportunity is just a dream. In too many countries economic growth already amounts to little more than a 'winner takes all' windfall for the richest." The Oxfam report found that over the past few decades, the rich have successfully wielded political influence to skew policies in their favour on issues ranging from financial deregulation, tax havens, anti-competitive business practices to lower tax rates on high incomes and cuts in public services for the majority. Since the late 1970s, tax rates for the richest have fallen in 29 out of 30 countries for which data are available, said the report. This "capture of opportunities" by the rich at the expense of the poor and middle classes has led to a situation where 70% of the world's population live in countries where inequality has increased since the 1980s and 1% of families own 46% of global wealth - almost £70tn. Opinion polls in Spain, Brazil, India, South Africa, the US, UK and Netherlands found that a majority in each country believe that wealthy people exert too much influence. Concern was strongest in Spain, followed by Brazil and India and least marked in the Netherlands. In the UK, some 67% agreed that "the rich have too much influence over where this country is headed" - 37% saying that they agreed "strongly" with the statement - against just 10% who disagreed, 2% of them strongly. The WEF's own Global Risks report recently identified widening income disparities as one of the biggest threats to the world community. Oxfam is calling on those gathered at WEF to pledge: to support progressive taxation and not dodge their own taxes; refrain from using their wealth to seek political favours that undermine the democratic will of their fellow citizens; make public all investments in companies and trusts for which they are the ultimate beneficial owners; challenge governments to use tax revenue to provide universal healthcare, education and social protection; demand a living wage in all companies they own or control; and challenge other members of the economic elite to join them in these pledges. • Research Now questioned 1,166 adults in the UK for Oxfam between October 1 and 14 2013. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Dave KaupOpen-outcry wheat traders work on the floor of the Kansas City Board of Trade.Dave Lutz of Stifel Nicolaus has a roundup of what traders are chatting about ahead of the U.S. market open: Good Morning! US Futures have a upbeat tone this AM, with Nasdaq up almost 50bp, and E-Minis up 30bp as AAPL up 1% (Susquehanna comments overriding CS Downgrade). EU Shares 5+ year highs as the DAX is up 40bp despite a weaker ZEW survey from Germany. Volumes across EU are mixed, with some markets trading 25% light to normal averages. Over in Asia, The weaker Yen helped push the Nikkei up 1%, and a fresh liquidity injection from the PBoC popped China 90bp. There was another wave of IPOs in China, 7 of which needed to be halted due to upside volatility. EM Asia was relatively mixed, with focus remaining on Thailand as protests turn violent into their Rate decision tomorrow. Aussie’s market gained 70bp as the big 4 banks rallied, but Miners held the ASX back as Last week’s best performers are under pressure on a sharp drop in Ore prices into China. Banks rallying globally after yesterday’s DB induced hit – DB has recovered 1% of yesterday’s 5% slide. Watch the Transports and Energy Cos on the impending snowstorm on the East Coast – So far 1800 flights have been cancelled, and headlines suggest propane shortages abound. Some Single Stock movers in the US include AA +3% (JP upgrade), NEM +2%, SSYS +2% (CS upgrade), SCTY -3% (JP Downgrade). US Treasury yields are higher, as there were Block sellers of Treasuries in Asian and London early this AM, but there has been a bid since US traders started manning their desks. The 10YY rests at 2.85% after bouncing off a 6 week low as the Fed begins it’s “Blackout” period into next week’s meeting. A lot of eyes in FX land on the EUR closing south of the 100dma against the $ this week, a first since July. The Yen is also moving lower against the $ as Hilsenrath writes about another “taper” move at next week’s meeting, Ben Bernanke’s final. With the DXY higher, we have a commodity headwind – Gold off 50bp retreating from a 2M+ high, while Silver is hit sharply for 1.5%. Platinum remains resilient, buoyed by the impending strikes in South Africa. The energy complex is well big as another “Polar Vortex” grips the US – With Gasoline jumping 1.5%. Brent has a bid as the Geneva 2 conference on Syria seems to be unraveling, and projections the USA will hit a “production wall” of shale oil from the IEA. The Brent-WTI spread is blowing wider this AM s the spot WTI contract expires, a refiner tailwind. We are very light on the economic calendar today, and all of Washington DC is on leave due to the storm. At 9:30, the IMF announces it’s World Economic output (Chatter UK to be upgraded again, 2nd time in a few months) – A very small POMO operation at 11, and API data tonight – along with earnings from IBM and TXN. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Volatility in China's short-term interest rates has everyone a bit on edge. Illiquid short-term credit and surging rates represent major problems for the many companies that rely heavily on this type of financing. On Tuesday, these rates spiked with the overnight repo rate spiking to a breathtaking 9%. And as usual in recent months, the People's Bank of China intervened. This time, it injected around 225 billion yuan into these short-term credit markets. "Such a response is not unusual as the PBoC has become notably more active in stabilising liquidity conditions after the dramatic squeeze in June 2013," said Societe Generale's Wei Yao. "However, what is unusual (and encouraging) this time is the use of communication," added Yao. "Shortly after the fact, the PBoC made the standing lending facilities operation public and informed the market of the reverse repo operations before they took place. Moreover, the central bank announced that it is to start a trial of direct liquidity injections into small and medium-sized financial institutions. However, what is unusual (and encouraging) this time is the use of communication. Shortly after the fact, the PBoC made the SLF operation public and informed the market of the reverse repo operations before they took place. Moreover, the central bank announced that it is to start a trial of direct liquidity injections into small and medium-sized financial institutions." Improved communication has been the popular trend among the world's central banks like the Federal Reserve, the European Central Bank, and the Bank of England. "This is a positive development," said Yao. "Rule-based monetary policy and its implementation certainly offer a much greater degree of transparency and helps guide and stabilise market expectations. It is one step closer to a desired policy regime. Providing direct support to smaller banks also helps improve the efficiency of liquidity management, especially as big banks increasingly hoard cash to address their own liquidity problem." All of this comes as China prepares for the Lunar New Year. "To be sure, we don’t think the PBoC’s liquidity injection ahead of the Lunar New Year is a surprise." said Bank of America Merrill Lynch's Xiaojia Zhi. "The jump in cash demand ahead the LNY is genuine because corporates need to pay salaries (for many migrant workers, most of their annual compensations are paid right before LNY) and settle payments while households withdraw cash for shopping for the biggest holiday of the year. Post the LNY holidays, cash returns to banks and usually the PBoC needs to drain the extra liquidity it injects before the LNY." FREE AppDownload
The New York Times recently published a list of its most-read stories in 2013. It's a fascinating mix of stuff — news, features, and celebrity editorials. As with many such lists, it shows what people actually want to read, as opposed to what other people think they want to (or should) read. Zach Seward of Quartz recently tweeted the whole list: New York Times, Zach Seward Also noteworthy: The folks at Capital New York point out that the single most-read story in the entire publication last year was created not by one of the Times' many Pulitzer Prize-winning journalists but by an intern (who, wisely, has since been hired full-time): Josh Katz who has a background in statistics created “How Yall, Youse and You Guys Talk,” with graphics editor Wilson Andrews. The final product was inspired by a study Katz created in grad school that was based on the Harvard Dialect Survey, and became a viral smash in December.. Now that his internship is over, he will start as a staff editor with the Times’ new data journalism project in the next few weeks. For what it's worth, we published our own version of the "how different people say the same thing" story last summer. It too, was one of our most popular stories of the year. Check it out below:   FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
static.guim.co.ukJet lag and shift work don't just make you tired, they are actually damaging your body and can switch off genes linked to the immune system, scientists have found. Researchers who altered the natural cycle of volunteers until they were sleeping during the daytime found that certain genes were not switching on. Some of these genes were responsible for releasing ‘products’ which keep the immune system working properly. Previous studies have shown that disrupting the body clock has a serious impact on health raising the risk of heart attacks and strokes by more than 40 per cent. Around 6 percent of the genes of the body are directly linked to our internal clocks or circadian rhythm, and switch on at certain times of the day or night. Scientists from the Sleep Research Centre at the University of Surrey found that 97 per cent of these ‘clock’ genes became out of sync when sleep patterns deviated from the norm. "This really explains why we feel so bad during jet lag, or if we have to work irregular shifts,” Dr Simon Archer, from the School of Biosciences and Medicine. Researchers placed twenty-two participants on a 28-hour day in a controlled environment without a natural light-dark cycle. As a result, their sleep-wake cycle was delayed by four hours each day, until sleep occurred 12 hours out of sync with their brain clock and in the middle of what would have been their normal ‘daytime’. The team then collected blood samples to measure the participants’ rhythms of gene expression. Senior author Professor Derk-Jan Dijk said changes in sleeping patterns had ‘dampened down’ the natural effect of the genes. “We know that shift work is associated with negative health consequences such as cardiovascular problems and that we don’t feel well when we’re jetlagged. “This shows how important that rhythmicity is for our body and how much of an impact it can have on us when this natural cycle is altered. “I don’t think in our society we can’t do without shift work but we can start to think about how we mitigate the impact and understand how it affects our bodies.” It is believed some of the genes need darkness to switch on. The research was published in the journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Ralph OrlowskiEuropean space officials applaud as comet-chasing spacecraft Rosetta wakes from a three years slumber to complete a decade-long deep space mission.Good morning! Here's what you need to know. — The Canadian dollar slid to $1.10 per U.S. dollar for the first time since 2009 on an otherwise quiet morning in the markets. So far this year, the Canadian dollar has been falling fast (the U.S. dollar has already risen 3.6% against it year to date).  "Canadians are starting to be convinced that the Bank of Canada will have an easing bias at its upcoming meeting on the 22nd of January, but little of this is yet priced in," Société Génerale senior forex strategist Sebastien Galy wrote clients in a January 17 note. — 10,000 rioters battled security forces in Ukraine amid the country's new anti-protest laws, which institute jail time for demonstrators blocking public buildings and the arrest of those wearing masks, according to the Agence France Presse. The riots on Sunday and Monday turned Kiev "into a veritable war zone." — Non-profit Oxfam has released a startling report on global inequality revealing that the richest 85 people control as much wealth as the poorest 3.5 billion of the world's population. "Widening inequality is creating a vicious circle where wealth and power are increasingly concentrated in the hands of a few, leaving the rest of us to fight over crumbs from the top table," said Oxfam executive director Winnie Byanyima. — German investor confidence fell for the first time in six months. The ZEW Survey fell to 61.7 from its seven-year high of 62. "Germany is relying on domestic consumption to support its economic growth as the 18-nation euro area, its biggest trading partner, struggles with record unemployment and shrinking bank lending," Bloomberg reported. In the U.S., it's a quiet week of economic data. — Some big companies will report earnings this week, starting today with Delta and Verizon. Analysts are expecting EPS to come in at $0.63 and $0.65 respectively for the two companies. — Asian markets rallied in overnight trading. Japan's Nikkei was up 0.99%, Korea's KOSPI edged up 0.52%, and Hong Kong's Hang Seng finished up 0.45%. European markets were also higher, and U.S. futures were pointing north as a major snowstorm heads toward the northeast (with 6-10 inches expected in New York). — The Wall Street Journal's Jon Hilsenrath reports that the Federal Reserve is "on track" to once again taper back its asset purchasing program. "A reduction in the program to $65 billion a month from the current $75 billion could be announced at the end of the Jan. 28-29 meeting," according to the report. — U.S. IT firms like IBM and Cisco are "on the defensive" in China as regulators there are suspicious of them having been partners in the U.S. government's surveillance of China, as revealed by Edward Snowden. "IBM, which reported a 22 percent drop in third-quarter China sales, led by a 40 percent decline in hardware revenues, may be a bellwether for the 'Snowden Effect' when it reports fourth-quarter results later on Tuesday," Reuters reports. — Chinese GDP expanded 7.7% in the fourth quarter year-over-year, down from 7.8% the previous quarter. Industrial production was up 9.7%. Some Asian stocks fell on the news. — In other Chinese news, a new report has shows that pollution from the country makes its way across the Pacific Ocean to the United States. Reuters reports that on some days, acid-rain from burning fossil fuels in China accounts for a quarter of the sulfate pollution in the U.S. FREE AppDownload
Turkey's central bank just announced that it would leave its benchmark policy rate on hold at 4.5%, and the lira is plunging to a new all-time low against the U.S. dollar. Right now, the dollar-lira exchange rate is trading up 0.4% around 2.25. Immediately following the announcement, it went as high as 2.2668. Over the past month, the lira has made a series of successive record lows as the country has become gripped in political scandal, and tightening of monetary policy in the United States has added downward pressure to the currency as the dollar advances. Thinkorswim FREE AppDownload
REUTERSIn 1994, the Fed began hiking interest rates under the leadership of Alan Greenspan. The bond market wasn't expecting it.There is growing concern on Wall Street that there may be less slack in the job market than the Federal Reserve perceives, leading to a scenario where the central bank finds itself "behind the curve" with regard to winding down unprecedented levels of extraordinary monetary stimulus as inflation returns. Aneta Markowska, chief U.S. economist at Société Générale, writes in a note to clients that "Could the Fed hike rates in 2014?" is one of the top questions that has come up in recent meetings with investors. The Fed has kept the federal funds rate, its main policy tool, pinned in a range between 0 and 0.25% for five years in a bid to max out monetary accommodation, and it said in its latest policy statement on December 18 "that it likely will be appropriate to maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate well past the time that the unemployment rate declines below 6-1/2 percent, especially if projected inflation continues to run below the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal." According to the Fed's own projections, that means the first rate hike likely won't come until the end of 2015. The monthly release of official employment figures from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics on January 10, however, revealed that the unemployment rate plummeted from 7.0% to 6.7% in December. The proximity of the current unemployment rate to the Fed's threshold is stoking the debate on Wall Street surrounding a potential scenario that has largely been lost in all of the negative sentiment toward the pace of economic recovery in recent years: what if the central bank's own projections for prices and the labor market are too pessimistic, and justifications for continued stimulus are quickly waning? "Albeit 20 years ago, 1994 has not yet left the collective memory of markets, and the fear is that 2014 could see a replay hereof," says Markowska. Key to the debate is to what extent recent declines in labor force participation — one of the drivers of downward pressure on the unemployment rate — are cyclical (i.e., reflecting economic weakness) versus structural (i.e., resulting from longer-term trends like demographics). If the decline in participation is largely cyclical, inflation is not a threat. If it is structural, then there will be a smaller pool of workers available to fill job openings as the economy picks up, and the risk becomes upward pressure on wages and inflation. Fed officials fear a significant amount of the decline in participation is cyclical, which is why they have increasingly sought in recent communications to downplay the 6.5% unemployment rate threshold for consideration of rate hikes in order to push out the market's timeline for when the central bank is expected to move. "We see part of the decline in the participation rate as structural, part as cyclical," says Markowska. "Should the bulk (contrary to our baseline scenario) prove structural, this would imply significantly less spare capacity in the U.S. labour market and could force the Fed to move early to stem inflation risks." A breakdown of BLS employment data by Ellyn Terry, an economic policy analysis specialist in the research department of the Atlanta Fed, provides support for the structural argument. It shows that the majority of those who have exited the labor force over the past four years were over 60 years of age. "The substantial growth (both absolute and relative) of older workers coupled with a decline in the participation rate for this age group suggest that recent participation rate declines may not prove temporary," says Drew Matus, deputy chief U.S. economist at UBS. "Although we believe that there could be a modest cyclical rise in participation as the economy improves, we believe the likely scale of the increase will not significantly alter the basic equation: payroll growth averaging 200,000 per month should continue to pull down the unemployment rate under all but the most aggressive labor force expansion estimates." Still, almost no one predicts rate hikes are imminent. A rare exception is Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi chief financial economist Chris Rupkey, whose prediction that the Fed will begin hiking rates in late 2014 lies squarely outside the Wall Street consensus. "I am waiting for them to wake up and smell the coffee," said Rupkey of Fed officials in December. "They keep talking down the economy, where there is greater strength out there than they think. I do not see the underemployment they see." Despite gains in the labor market, inflation remains elusive. The year-over-year change in the price index of core personal consumption expenditures (the measure of inflation the Fed cites in its policy statements) was only 1.1% in November, well below the central bank's 2% target. "Inflation is the new unemployment," writes Credit Suisse chief economist Neal Soss in a note to clients. "Should upcoming data prompt a rise in inflation expectations, the Fed’s commitment to low rates will start looking less credible," warns Soss. If that happens, he says, "look for the markets to test the Fed’s forward guidance, perhaps repeatedly, over the course of the year." FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
At first blush, the chart below tells the story of the demise of brick-and-mortar retail in the United States. "Nearly 140 million square feet of shopping center space was built in the U.S. between 2002 and 2008," says ChainLinks Advisors in its Fall/Winter 2013 Retail Review &amp; Forecast. "Since then, only 20 million square feet of new product has been developed." ChainLinks Retail Advisors The rise of e-commerce and its impact on physical stores is widely known. Shoppers increasingly tend to spend their dollars at online retailers like Amazon rather than go to a store to make the same purchases in person. But the lack of development of new retail space is posing another issue to the industry as vacancy rates fall from peak levels hit in the wake of the recession, as ChainLinks explains: On the surface, when considering [the impact of e-commerce], it would be easy to assume that shopping center vacancy would actually be climbing. Or, at best, flat. But we do actually continue to see growth in the retail sector. And bricks and mortar retailer demand is actually on the upswing. Certainly, one factor that has helped to bring vacancy numbers down has been the fact that there has been so little new retail development in recent years. Nearly 140 million square feet of shopping center space was built in the U.S. between 2002 and 2008. Since then, we have only seen about 20 million square feet of new product delivered. Yet, ironically, this is becoming one of the vexing issues in the marketplace. Retailer demand is up and has been for a number of years in some of the strongest performing local economies in the U.S. That demand is heavy for quality, Class A space. Yet, we have now reached a point where little of that type of space remains available in even the slowest recovering marketplaces. At the beginning of the recovery, we saw the strongest occupancy growth numbers being produced by markets like Washington DC, San Francisco, Boston, New York, Dallas, Houston and other major metros where local economies were ahead of the curve in terms of recovery. Yet, with just a few exceptions, over the past year we have seen metros like Denver, Phoenix, Minneapolis, Atlanta and Pittsburgh supplant them in terms of being growth leaders. The reasons are two-fold; economic improvement has accelerated in most of the nation’s second-tier markets and is no longer something just occurring in those regions with a strong energy or tech presence. And the other reason for this is the fact that national retail chains seeking to grow are facing challenges in finding any Class A space left in last year’s hot markets. Does that mean that the marketplace is ready for another huge wave of speculative retail development like what we saw between 2002 and 2008? Absolutely not—but what most major markets are in dire need of and are still only seeing in insufficient numbers are quality redevelopment projects within strong existing trade areas. Read on here. Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through his personal investment company Bezos Expeditions. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Max RossiEven Wetten of Norway competes in the men's speed skating 1000 metres race at the Torino 2006 Winter Olympic Games in Turin, Italy, February 18, 2006. OSLO (Reuters) - In May 2012 the world's largest sovereign wealth fund joined U.S. investors BlackRock and Waddell &amp; Reed to buy a $1.6 billion stake in motor racing's Formula One. The people who had worked on the deal for months were looking forward to celebrating their hard work. Then they got an email from their boss. Under no circumstances were they to be seen drinking champagne in the VIP tribune at the Monaco Grand Prix. "We have high expectations in terms of ethical standards, also for ourselves," says Yngve Slyngstad, the head of the fund, which invests $163,000 of oil and gas wealth for each man, woman and child in Norway. "We cannot behave in a way that makes people doubt that we have their best interests at heart," he told Reuters last August. "Our duty as an asset manager is to manage the people's money, public money. This means there is a particular responsibility on us." Norway has a population slightly larger than the state of South Carolina but its government-run wealth fund has $833 billion in assets, making it one of the largest investors in the world. It owns 1.25 percent of all the shares worldwide, 2.5 percent in Europe, and it has a unique ethical mandate. That sees it avoid companies such as Walmart, which Norway deemed to have breached "human rights and labor rights." But the fund is underperforming. Since it started as a sovereign fund in 1998, it has returned an average of just 3.41 percent per year, short of its target of four percent. Now Slyngstad faces a political test. A new government, in power since last October, is reviewing strategy at the fund, which is officially called the Government Pension Fund Global. To boost returns, the right-wing coalition is reviewing its investment policy and organization and may let it invest in riskier assets. Some commentators worry that could hurt the fund's ethical focus. Already, politicians and the media in Norway pay very close attention to the companies the fund invests in: It strives to meet the ethical expectations of five million Norwegians and heeds warnings from global campaigners such as human rights activists, environmentalists, and trade unions. Even Bill Gates has voiced an opinion. At the fund's head since 2008 is Slyngstad. The 51-year-old is employed by the central bank and his ultimate boss is the parliament. Until last October, Norway, the world's number seven oil exporter, was ruled by a coalition led by the centre-left Labour party. Now the centre-right Conservatives are in an alliance with the more radical Progress Party. Progress made reshaping the fund part of its election promise; its leader, Siv Jensen, says her party "has been fighting Socialism for 40 years", and she is now finance minister. Change - albeit gradual and consensual - is likely. Some in the Conservatives, whose leader Erna Solberg is Prime Minister, have suggested dividing Norway's wealth into two competing funds. Others, in Progress, want to break off three smaller funds to focus on renewable energy and foreign aid, and to let Norwegian finance groups manage some of the cash. "The fund's investments have to be defendable politically," says Oeystein Doerum, chief economist at Norway's largest bank, DNB. Norway's finance ministry determines the broad assets Slyngstad can invest in. Originally that was only government bonds; corporate bonds, stocks and then real estate were added later. An independent council of ethics keeps a blacklist of companies whose shares the fund may not hold. Otherwise, Slyngstad is in charge. "Slyngstad is clear and loyal, which is very important for the finance ministry," said Henrik Syse, the fund's head of corporate governance between 2005 and 2007 and a fund adviser until 2009. Both government parties think the fund should be allowed to pep up its performance by investing in foreign infrastructure. Private equity investments are another possibility. Such assets would be less easy to trade, but could yield more. Fund commentators such as Sony Kapoor, a senior visiting fellow at the London School of Economics who wrote a critical study of the fund last August, argue that in a changing world, the conservative approach has actually become a liability - the fund places too much emphasis on investing in developed economies. The fund's mandate says investments must be balanced geographically: At the end of 2012 about 48 percent was in Europe, 15.5 percent in Asia-Pacific and 35.6 percent in the Americas and Africa. The remainder was in bonds issued by international organizations, which the fund no longer buys. "The fund's approach ... has now become a bet on the future of OECD economies being bright," Kapoor wrote. "This locks in low returns and exposes the fund to concentrated risks of ageing populations and over-indebtedness faced by many mature economies. The fund has inadvertently taken on a lot of risk, for very little return." Kapoor says the mandate should be changed so that the fund can take advantage of long-term growth in emerging markets. "Not only will this be good for Norway, it will also enable faster growth in poorer economies and create millions of much-needed jobs," he says. It's a line echoed by Bill Gates, the Microsoft founder turned philanthropist. He has argued that Norway, as one of the richest countries in the world, can afford to help out people in poor countries inAsia and Africa. The fund is already increasing its exposure to emerging markets. The share of European investments should be reduced to 41 percent gradually, the finance ministry said in 2012. "We invest according to our mandate as defined by the finance ministry,"says fund spokesman Thomas Sevang. People who know Slyngstad, who declined to be interviewed for this story, say he combines a close capacity for detail with a rapid, receptive mind. A bald, goateed Oslo native, he joined the central bank in 1998 from insurance firm Storebrand and was the fund's head of equities before taking the top job. He has four master's degrees, competed in the sport of curling for Norway in the 1980s, and earned $970,000 in 2012. Fund staff say his message about the Monaco Grand Prix is typical of a man who leaves nothing to chance, something which shows in his time-keeping. He presents results every quarter at a regular 10am news conference, held in a cavernous room in the basement of the central bank. At 10:00:00 sharp he begins reading from a press release, in Norwegian and in a fast, low voice. "He is a bit like a machine gun ... information comes at you very quickly," Syse said. From time to time, he likes to escape. In his late 20s Slyngstad backpacked around Asia, Latin America and Africa, according to media reports. In 1990 he retreated for six months to a fisherman's cabin in Norway's Arctic north to study the work of the German philosophers Martin Heidegger and Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel. Studying philosophy challenges one's thinking, he once said. "It was useful to understand how to handle risks today." He certainly knows pressure: He became the fund's chief executive in the middle of the global financial crisis, the year of its worst performance. It lost 14.5 percent of its value in the third quarter of 2008. When Slyngstad took over the fund was already boosting its exposure to risk. It increased the share of assets it could invest in stocks to 60 percent from 40 percent. Critics at the time argued that this was too big a gamble, but it paid off. The fund returned 12.7 percent on its investments in the second quarter of 2009, its best ever performance, as world stocks bounced back. Since then performance has been less volatile and in the fund's latest quarter, it returned 5.0 percent. During Slyngstad's tenure so far, its annual return has averaged 3.14 percent, just below the overall average. "He is extraordinarily talented and has done a very good job, both with the way he handles the fund's everyday operations, but also in his ability to think in new ways," said Sigbjoern Johnsen, a Labour politician and Norway's finance minister until October. Adding more risk to the fund's portfolio would not be simple. The private equity industry - which borrows heavily to buy businesses - has a reputation for ruthlessness. Many companies say they are improving their governance, but upsets could be damaging. Infrastructure projects in the developing world often attract corruption. Earlier this month, four Norwegian fertilizer executives were indicted on charges of bribery in Libya and India - an accusation broadly accepted by their employer without blaming any individuals - which illustrates reputational risks in emerging markets. Could Norway's fund invest while sticking to its strict ethical standards? The fund already talks with the 7,500 firms it invests in on topics from the equal treatment of shareholders to children's rights. Slyngstad himself is responsible for a focus on children's rights: Syse says the idea came up during a chat the two were having. How, Slyngstad asked, could a fund that invests for future generations make money out of exploited children abroad? Between 2008 and 2011, the oil fund published reports on how particular investments fared in terms of child labour. In 2011, it even named companies it felt were best at managing and reporting the risks of child labour - these included Walt Disney, Ericsson and Hennes &amp; Mauritz. In addition to ethical policies drawn up by the fund itself, the finance ministry forbids investment in firms that produce nuclear weapons, anti-personnel landmines, cluster bombs or tobacco. Nor can the fund support companies involved in severe environmental damage, gross corruption or "serious and systematic human rights violation," such as forced labour, the worst forms of child labour, murder or torture. An independent council of ethics makes recommendations to the finance ministry on what companies should be excluded. The five-strong council follows media reports about alleged abuses, commissions research and deals with reports made by non-governmental organizations. Some 60 firms are currently out of bounds for Slyngstad and his team. Walmart was ruled out in 2006 for employing minors against international rules, allowing hazardous working conditions at suppliers, and blocking workers' efforts to form unions. Walmart does not comment on any shareholders that buy or sell its stocks. "Our company provides a range of jobs, and along with training and development, our associates have strong career opportunities. We are proud of what our associates achieve and the opportunities that we provide around the world," said Walmart spokesman Randy Hargrove. Today, the oil fund's council of ethics is examining a range of issues from illegal or unregulated fishing to human rights violations in Myanmar or the Democratic Republic of Congo, its head told Reuters. Among proposed changes to the fund is a plan to scrap the council of ethics' independence. A government commission has found it may move more quickly if it was brought under the central bank's control. That possibility has alarmed activists, who argue the fund needs a strong and independent body to screen firms and make recommendations. Critics also argue that the fund is already short of resources. It used to have a section working on corporate governance, for instance, with about 10 people dedicated to the issue in 2007, Syse said. That was scrapped when the head of the section left in 2012, and its staff integrated into equity investment. The aim was to enhance their direct contribution and efficiency, says fund spokesman Sevang. Whatever shape or resources the fund has in future, balancing risks and rewards will always be a tall order. "The fund has to be able to defend its decisions politically as well as financially," said Steinar Juel, chief economist at bank Nordea. "The fund could be undermined if it is perceived to make investments that are politically unacceptable." (Edited by Sara Ledwith) FREE AppDownload
@bondvigilantes Here's a stunning chart that was tweeted out by @bondvigilantes. It shows Irish 5-year borrowing costs against the equivalent for the UK and the US. During the heat of the Eurozone crisis, Irish yields soared. Today, Ireland is borrowing for less than the UK and the US. The chart kind of tells the whole story of Europe. During the crisis, the big fear was default, and so investors demanded sky-high yields to be compensated for the risk that Ireland (or one of its peripheral counterparts) would miss a payment and possibly leave the Eurozone. That fear is now ancient history. The new fear in the Eurozone is a slowing economy and deflation. Ireland is borrowing for less than the UK and the US not because it's deemed to be a better credit risk — it's not — but because the economy is expected to be weak and inflation is expected to be non-existent (Conversely, yields in the UK and the US have been trending a bit higher on hopes of a breakout in economic strength). This one chart therefore tells so much about what happened over the last few years, and how the story has dramatically changed. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlos BarriaWomen walk in the financial area of Pudong in Shanghai April 26, 2011. HONG KONG, Jan 21 (IFR/Reuters) - JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co has stopped working on a Chinese firm's initial public offering amid an investigation by U.S. authorities into its hiring practices in China, people with direct knowledge of the matter told Reuters on Tuesday. It is the second time JPMorgan has stepped aside from a Chinese IPO candidate while U.S. securities regulators look into whether the bank violated federal laws in hiring the relatives of current or potential clients with the sole purpose of winning business from them. JPMorgan has ended its IPO discussions with Tianhe Chemicals, the people said, as the supplier of lubricating oil additives to refiners such as China Petroleum and PetroChina was trying to move ahead with an around $1 billion deal. Thomson Reuters publication IFR said on Monday that Tianhe Chemicals hoped to launch the IPO in the second quarter of this year. JPMorgan's exit was driven by concerns raised about the bank's employment of Joyce Wei, the daughter of Tianhe Chemicals Chairman Qi Wei, IFR reported, citing sources. Hong Kong securities license filings show that a Jiao Wei worked at JPMorgan from January 2012 to August 2013, and is now on the staff at UBS, joining the Swiss bank in October. Jiao is Joyce Wei's Chinese name, a person familiar with the matter told IFR, affirming also that she is Wei's daughter. Another source said UBS is mandated to work on the Tianhe Chemicals IPO. JPMorgan and UBS declined to comment. Efforts to reach Joyce Wei and Tianhe Chemicals were not successful. JPMorgan had been discussing an overseas listing with privately-owned Tianhe since at least 2011, when IFR first reported the company planned to list in London. It is not clear whether Tianhe signed any formal letter of engagement before or after Wei joined JPMorgan. One source said on Tuesday the company - in which Morgan Stanley's Asia private equity unit invested $300 million for a minority stake in 2012 - planned to list in Hong Kong. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the Department of Justice are investigating whether JPMorgan violated bribery laws by improperly hiring the relatives of well-connected Chinese officials. The investigation is ongoing and the bank has not been accused of any wrongdoing related to the case. JPMorgan earlier withdrew from a syndicate of underwriters working on a $3 billion listing by China Everbright Bank Co, Reuters reported in November. (Reporting by Fiona Lau of IFR and Lawrence White, with additional reporting by Stephen Aldred and Elzio Barreto; Editing by Michael Flaherty and Ian Geoghegan) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Bobby YipBEIJING (Reuters) - Battling a perfect storm of government suspicion and pricing probes in China, U.S. technology companies are having to re-think how they sell hardware and services in the world's second-biggest economy. U.S. multinationals, including IBM, Cisco Systems and Qualcomm, are looking to settle price-gouging investigations and restore trust with Chinese regulators in the wake of reports that U.S. government agencies directly collect data and tap networks of the biggest domestic technology companies. All U.S. IT firms are "on the defensive" in China, said Scott Kennedy, director of the Research Center for Chinese Politics and Business at Indiana University. "They are all under suspicion as either witting or unwitting collaborators in the U.S. government's surveillance and intelligence gathering activities." Former National Security Agency (NSA) contractor Edward Snowden's revelations about U.S. government surveillance may cost U.S. technology firms billions of dollars in lost sales, analysts say. The U.S. cloud computing industry alone may lose as much as $35 billion in worldwide sales over the next three years, the Information Technology &amp; Innovation Foundation (ITIF), a Washington, D.C.-based non-profit think-tank, estimates. "The ability of U.S. companies to sell abroad has been seriously compromised by foreign customer concerns about the relationship between the U.S. intelligence community and the tech sector," said Daniel Castro, a senior analyst at ITIF. Nowhere is the so-called 'Snowden Effect' expected to have greater impact than in China, says Sanford C. Bernstein analyst Toni Sacconaghi. "U.S. technology companies face the most revenue risk in China by a wide margin, followed by Brazil and other emerging markets," he wrote in a research note this month. IBM, which reported a 22 percent drop in third-quarter China sales, led by a 40 percent decline in hardware revenues, may be a bellwether for the 'Snowden Effect' when it reports fourth-quarter results later on Tuesday. Revenue at the Armonk, N.Y.-based company is expected to contract 3.7 percent in October-December from a year earlier, to $28.2 billion, though net profit is seen rising 6 percent to $6.5 billion, according to Thomson Reuters SmartEstimates. The mutually antagonistic relationship between Washington, D.C. and Beijing, alongside China's drive to promote indigenous champions and the deep ties between big U.S. tech firms and the government, further complicate the outlook. On Saturday, China's Commerce Ministry condemned the $1.1-trillion spending passed by the U.S. Congress last week for including a cyber-espionage review process for federal purchases of technology from China. Cisco Systems, which is locked in a commercial battle to sell telecoms network equipment with Chinese domestic competitor Huawei Technologies, reported China orders declined 18 percent last quarter, as top-five emerging market sales slumped by more than a fifth. "I've never seen that fast a move in emerging markets," said Cisco CEO John Chambers. For Qualcomm and InterDigital Inc, which face anti-monopoly investigations by China's top planning agency, the National Development and Reform Commission, related to their patent licenses for wireless mobile handsets and networks, the challenges may be greater. Qualcomm CEO Paul Jacobs said earlier this month the company was still in the dark on developments in the China probe, which the company announced in November. Qualcomm, the leading provider of handset chipsets for 4G networks, reports its earnings on January 29. "These firms are between a rock and hard place," said Kennedy of the Research Center for Chinese Politics and Business. "They can push the U.S. government to stop using them to spy, but that will alienate them from an important source of political support and business, and perhaps put them in violation of the (U.S.) Patriot Act or some secret executive order." IBM may address official concerns by rolling out more technologies and services. Last month, IBM announced it was expanding its enterprise cloud platform into China as part of a $1.2 billion global initiative. That followed Amazon.com Inc's announcement that Amazon Web Services would launch its own cloud computing services in China. Amazon said it signed a technical deal with the Beijing city government and with the government of Ningxia, an autonomous region, "to help foster development of a robust IT sector in western China." IBM also is reportedly in talks with China's Lenovo Group Ltd to sell its low-end server business, a move that "may cool things down," said Alberto Moel, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein. On Friday, U.S. President Barack Obama proposed making changes to the NSA, without addressing the government's unauthorized access to company systems and technologies. That may not be enough for U.S. tech firms. "The president's speech was empathetic, balanced and thoughtful, but insufficient to meet the real needs of our globally connected world and a free Internet," said Ed Black, president of the Computer &amp; Communications Industry Association, a group that represents Google, Microsoft, Facebook, Yahoo, and other U.S. firms targeted by NSA surveillance. (Additional reporting by Michael Martina; Editing by Ian Geoghegan) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/China DailyNBA Los Angeles Lakers basketball player Kobe Bryant (L) holds a Lenovo smartphone as he poses for photographs with Senior Vice President of Lenovo Group Liu Jun during a promotional event in Beijing, August 11, 2013. Picture taken August 11, 2013. NEW YORK/HONG KONG (Reuters) - China's Lenovo Group Ltd has resumed talks to buy International Business Machines Corp's (IBM) low-end server unit, a source familiar with the matter said, a purchase that would bolster its efforts to diversify beyond a shrinking PC market. A deal for IBM's x86 servers, which power corporate data centers, fits in with Lenovo's attempts to remold itself as a growing force in mobile devices and data storage servers. It also helps IBM's shift away from hardware towards software and services. The two companies failed to reach an agreement last year after differing on pricing. Media reports then put IBM's hopes at between $4 billion to $6 billion for the unit, while Lenovo was said to be only willing to offer $2.5 billion. Analysts now estimate the sale of the IBM unit to Lenovo could be worth between $2.5 billion and $3 billion. That would make it the biggest ever deal in China's IT sector, outpacing Badu Inc's acquisition of 91 Wireless from NetDragon Websoft Inc for $1.85 billion last year. "Everybody wins because even if IBM could double the profitability it's still not good enough for IBM. On the other hand, Lenovo doubling the server business margins is a good deal for Lenovo," said Alberto Moel, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein. Lenovo, the world's biggest PC maker, said on Tuesday it was in preliminary talks about an acquisition. It declined to name the seller but said it was making the statement in response to reports about its potential acquisition of a server business. It added that it had not entered into any definitive agreement and that no material terms had been agreed to. An IBM spokesman said on Monday the company wouldn't comment on the matter. Dell Inc, which went private in a $25 billion deal last year, has also been cited in media reports as a potential suitor for the business. A Beijing-based spokesman for Dell declined to comment. Lenovo's purchase of IBM's Thinkpad PC business in 2005 for $1.75 billion became the springboard for its leap to the top of global PC maker rankings. Moel, who estimates IBM's low-end server business could be worth between $2.5 billion to $2.9 billion, said IBM was likely more eager now to do a deal than last year after several quarters of weak earnings. But any deal would also likely invite scrutiny from the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States(CFIUS) as servers were more directly related to data security than PCs and phones, he added. Lenovo could finance the deal through a combination of cash, debt and converts, said Nicolas Baratte, a Hong Kong-based analyst with brokerage CLSA. The company has $3 billion in cash, and very little debt, and IBM is a very willing seller, he added. "If IBM sells all its server business, except the top-end servers, the deal is worth $2.5 to $3 billion," Baratte said. "There is no financing problem for $3 billion, but I don't think it will be one hundred percent cash." Shares in Lenovo, which has a market value of $13.7 billion, closed up 2.75 percent at HK$10.46 on Tuesday, while the benchmark Hong Kong share index was up 0.5 percent. Its shares have surged 12 percent this year, and earlier this month marked their highest level in more than 13 years after an IDC report showed it managed to boost PC shipments 9 percent in the fourth quarter while industry shipments slid 5.6 percent. IBM is due to report fourth-quarter earnings later on Tuesday. In the previous quarter, revenue missed expectations, hit by a 40 percent drop in China hardware sales. (Reporting by Ryan Vlastelica, Devika Krishna Kumar, Paul Carsten, Donny Kwok and Denny Thomas; Editing by Edwina Gibbs and Miral Fahmy) FREE AppDownload
At the World Economic Forum Annual Meeting in Davos, big topics of conversation will likely include inequality, the impact of technology, and how the world can transition to normalized, post-crisis economic policy. SocGen currency analyst Kit Juckes proposes the following topic of conversation: massive debt levels (not just government, but across the private sector as well). He writes: I have a new favourite chart... I don't think Wefers in Davos should be talking about government debt or fiscal policy but about (excessive) overall debt, in the US and elsewhere. My favourite chart shows US debt levels (overall non-fin) as a percentage of GDP, plotted against 'real' Fed Funds. US debt levels have been rising in a series of steps. Steady through the 1960s and 1970s, debt levels jumped during the Reaganomics era, before stabilising through the 1990s, and then embarking on the Greenspan surge. Right now the ratio is more or less going sideways but it is much, much too high. The idea of using debt to boost economic growth is predicated on the idea that at least the debt/GDP ratio, should fall back in times of economic growth. Didn't happen in the great moderation of the 1990s and it isn't showing any signs of happening now, either. Which in turn makes me wonder what this implies for future monetary policy and in particular, for any notion of a ‘neutral' interest rate. In an over-simplification, that's what the second chart shows. A higher and higher debt/GDP ratio has been accompanied by successively lower highs and lower lows for ‘real' Fed Funds rate. Which comes first, the chicken or the egg? Low rates encourage debt levels to grow and then higher debt levels mean that rate hikes cause the economy to correct at lower and lower real rates. SocGen FREE AppDownload
Joe Weisenthal, Business Insider Swiss politics doesn't make international news that often, though lately it has been somewhat. There was recently a national referendum on restricting the pay of top executives (it failed). There's also an upcoming vote on whether to provide everyone in Switzerland with some kind of basic income (it's expected to fail). Basically, voting on big issues is a big part of Swiss politics. And just as in most countries, you see ads for politicians in Switzerland — ads for either side of given votes are all over the place. The above left one is encouraging people to vote NO on a referendum that would apparently restrict the flow of labor in and out of Switzerland and neighboring European countries (Switzerland isn't part of the EU, but it has agreements to give it an EU-like relationship with its neighbors). According to the ad, if the referendum passes, Switzerland will be knocking down its proverbial apple tree of prosperity. These ads are all over the place. Apparently there are booklets handed out explaining the referendums that are quite good and make for a citizenry well informed of key laws. FREE AppDownload
One of the big headlines during an otherwise quiet morning in global markets today: the Canadian dollar has just fallen to $1.10 per U.S. dollar for the first time since 2009. Since the turn of the new year, the loonie has been sliding fast. In the year to date already, the U.S. dollar has risen 3.6% against Canada's currency. The Canadian economy faces significant headwinds at a time when many developed economies around the world are staging rebounds of their own, as evidenced by the latest release of official employment figures, which showed that the Canadian economy unexpectedly lost jobs in December. "Canadians are starting to be convinced that the Bank of Canada will have an easing bias at its upcoming meeting on the 22nd of January, but little of this is yet priced in," said Sebastien Galy, a senior forex strategist at Société Génerale, in a January 17 note, when the exchange rate was trading closer to $1.095. The chart below shows the move. Thinkorswim FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Toru HanaiBank of Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda.LONDON (Reuters) - European shares hit fresh 5-1/2 year highs on Tuesday, tracking Asian shares higher as Chinese money rates eased, while the dollar got a boost from a report the Federal Reserve would again trim its bond buying next week. Chinese shares &lt;.SSEC&gt; rebounded from six-month lows and money market rates fell after the central bank dumped more than 255 billion yuan ($42 billion) into the financial system, easing concerns another credit crunch was underway less than a month after a late December squeeze. Investors will also be watching liquidity operations by the European Central Bank later on Tuesday to see if it acts to correct a recent sharp rise in money rates, a tightening of conditions that could retard the region's recovery. The key ZEW indicator of German investor sentiment for January will be released at 1000 GMT. European shares &lt;.FTEU3&gt; hit 5-1/2 year highs, though world stocks &lt;.MIWD000000PUS&gt; were steady. One big loser among European blue-chips was Alstom &lt;ALSO.PA&gt;, down 12 percent after the power and transport engineering firm lowered its annual profit and cash flow targets. U.S. stock futures were pointing higher, with the S&amp;P 500 up 0.27 percent and the Dow up 0.5 percent. The dollar bounced to 104.68 yen and the euro edged down to $1.3532, not far from Monday's two-month trough of $1.3508, after the Wall Street Journal reported the U.S. Federal Reserve is on track to trim its bond-buying program for the second time in six weeks, paring back by $10 billion to $65 billion a month. A lackluster U.S. jobs report had not diminished the central bank's confidence in the economy, wrote Fed watcher Jon Hilsenrath. Investors suspect he has an inside line to policy makers and put a lot of weight on his opinion. It was enough to nudge 10-year U.S. Treasury yields up 3 basis points to 2.85 percent, following the U.S. market holiday on Monday. German government bond futures fell 11 ticks. The yen was also under pressure as Japan's central bank began a two-day policy meeting at which it is expected to keep its massive quantitative easing program unchanged. "We do share the view that monetary policy in the U.S. will be less accommodative and that is helping the dollar against the yen," said Manuel Oliveri, FX strategist at Credit Agricole. "On the yen side, there is some positioning that the Bank of Japan may sound more dovish at the end of its policy meeting this week." Attention will also be on Turkey's central bank as a crumbling currency piles pressure on for a hike in interest rates at its policy meeting on Tuesday. The lira recovered slightly after hitting a string of recent record lows as a government corruption scandal undermined investor confidence. In commodity markets, gold steadied at $1,249.89 an ounce, after hitting its highest level since mid-December at $1,259.85 on Monday. Brent futures rose 60 cents to $106.95 a barrel as immediate supply worries from prolonged outages in South Sudan and Libya offset the impact of a deal aimed at ending a decade-long dispute over Iran's nuclear program. (Additional reporting by Anirban Nag in London and Wayne Cole in Sydney; Editing by Tom Heneghan) FREE AppDownload
Joe Weisenthal Here's an ad that's taken over the side of a town bus here in Davos, Switzerland, home of the World Economic Forum Annual Meeting. It instantly reminds you of a big reason why this event (which draws business executives, pundits, and government officials from all over the world) exists. Everybody is looking for cash. Well, maybe not everybody, but there are tons of ads everywhere and events sponsored by developing markets advertising themselves as great places to invest. India has a particularly big presence, with ads throughout the town touting its benefits for business, and its growing middle class. Andrew Ross Sorkin has a column up about notable people who are not in Davos, and I was particularly surprised to read this: The leaders of General Electric and IBM, Jeffrey R. Immelt and Virginia M. Rometty, are not attendees either. “I don’t go to Davos and places like that,” Mr. Immelt once said dismissively. It's hard to think of a company that's more situated at the nexus of government interest and private investment than GE. I'd almost think of it as the natural Davos company, though apparently Immelt thinks it's a waste of time. Regardless, this place will be teeming over the next several days with officials from various countries and the corporate executives eager to make deals with them. Joe Weisenthal, Business Insider   FREE AppDownload
