REUTERS/Rick WilkingWith a net worth of approximately $78.9 billion, Microsoft cofounder Bill Gates is the wealthiest man in the world.  Gates has been a public fixture ever since he and Paul Allen started a computer revolution in the 1980s. He has all of the toys you would expect from the world's richest man, from a private jet to a 66,000-square-foot home he nicknamed Xanadu 2.0.  Yet as his wealth has grown, Gates has done more and more philanthropy work, donating billions of dollars to charity projects through the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.  FREE AppDownload
British police will reconsider opening an inquiry into why payday lender Wonga — which charges annual interest rates of 5,853% — sent fake lawyers' letters to customers who were in arrears on their debts, the BBC reported. The police have been asked by a lawyers' group to look into whether the fake letters constitute blackmail. The move comes just days after Wonga's CEO and founder/chairman both left the company. Previously, police had decided not to pursue a criminal investigation. Wonga is huge in Britain. It's famous as the shirt-front sponsor of Newcastle United, the Premier League soccer team. Wonga did not return a message requesting comment. Allegations over the fake letters first emerged last year. At the time, police referred the company to the U.K.'s Office of Fair Trading and the Financial Conduct Authority. This week, the FCA said Wonga had settled the case for £2.6 million ($4.4 million), payable to 45,000 customers — about £50 (about $85) each, the BBC said: An investigation by the regulator found that Wonga sent letters to customers from fake law firms called "Chainey, D'Amato &amp; Shannon" and "Barker and Lowe Legal Recoveries", sometimes charging customers a fee for these letters. Wonga's chairman, Errol Damelin, quit on June 13. A few days later, Wonga CEO Niall Wass also quit to join Uber as one of its international chiefs. Wass had only held the job six months. There are no allegations of wrongdoing against either man. The Law Society, a lobby group for U.K. lawyers, asked the police to see whether Wonga had committed "blackmail," and whether it had broken any laws that prohibit unqualified people from pretending to be lawyers, according to The Financial Times: It has asked the force to investigate three specific offences: whether Wonga obtained “pecuniary advantage by deception and blackmail” and whether it committed offences under the Solicitors Act and the Legal Services Act. On Wednesday it emerged that Wonga, which offers short-term loans at an annual interest rate of 5,853%, had sent out letters to struggling borrowers in the names of two non-existent law firms. The communications were typically headed up "Urgent message" and began: "We have been instructed by Wonga to recover from you a debt of £X …" Wonga told The Guardian it had not yet been contacted by the police. Earlier, the company published an apology for the fake letters, in which it admitted the deception: Between 2008 and 2010, we sent out letters to 44,556 customers claiming to be from companies “Barker &amp; Lowe” and “Chainey, D’Amato &amp; Shannon”. These letters were in fact from Wonga. They gave the misleading impression that customers’ outstanding debts had been passed on to a law firm (or other third party) with the threat of adverse consequences if the debts were not repaid quickly. Charges were added to some customer accounts as a result of this practice. This practice was unacceptable and should never have happened. It ran contrary to the principle of transparency on which our business has been built. Read the rest of Wonga's apology here.   &nbsp; FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Nir EliasChinese president Xi Jinping began a crackdown on corruption soon after he came to power. During the leadership transition in late 2012, outgoing president Hu Jintao had warned that corruption "could prove fatal to the party, and even cause the collapse of the party and the fall of the state." Xi took that message to heart. In 2013, efforts to end corruption targeted rooting out corrupt politicians and curbing gift giving and conspicuous consumption — this began to impact catering, sales of jewelry. Chinese officials also became nervous about being caught playing golf. It was expected that going into 2014, things would ease up. That hasn't happened. Government officials now have caps on daily spending when traveling around China. The Chinese military has been banned from buying foreign-made vehicles. And the State Council is widening its probe into the use of public funds for travel, gifts etc among military officials. And there's now evidence the continuous crackdown may be contributing to slower economic growth, according to Bank of America's Ting Lu: First, even for the honest officials, the escalated anti-graft campaign is making them think twice before making investment decisions. The officials are increasingly cautious as they don’t want to be the next target of the campaign for the actions they have taken. Many feel the safest way during the heightened crackdown is to do nothing. This is part of the reason that Premier Li has repeatedly called for more action at local levels since May. Second, an important part of the campaign was anti-extravagance. The eight point measures introduced in December 2012 emphasized on exercising thrift, and to strictly enforce rules on housing, government vehicles and other work related perks. Moreover, benefits such as subsidies, government provided welfare housing and generous retirement packages are being phased out gradually. As a result, some officials feel the incentives are not strong enough to take any actions. For further proof, Ting points us to the surge in bank deposits. "The strong evidence was the abnormally high growth in bank deposits of governments and quasi-government agencies (up 28.3% and 23.6% yoy in February 2014 respectively), a significant slowdown in retail sales growth, and some deceleration in [fixed-asset investment] growth," writes Ting. Bank of America Chinese economic growth slowed to 7.4% in Q1 2014, and Beijing has a 2014 GDP target of 7.5% growth. it's hard to calculate the exact impact that this campaign will have on GDP growth, but he estimates about 60 basis points on annual real GDP growth. Though he thinks this could go as high as 150 bps.  "These are not small numbers even for a country with nominal GDP growth around 9.0% and real GDP growth around 7.0-7.5%," writes Ting. It'll be interesting to see how the impact on FAI will filter through to growth. FREE AppDownload
The best economic data can sometimes surface when the market isn't looking. The weekly H.8 report from the Federal Reserve, which shows the assets and liabilities of commercial banks in the U.S., is released at 4:15 on Friday afternoon. And this week's report looks pretty good. The most recent report showed that commercial bank loans and leases in bank credit continue to surge, and are now up more than 5% year-over-year.  Next week is jam-packed with headline economic data, and all of these data are important for gauging the health of the economy. Credit growth, however, is the way you really find out how things are going out there. And it looks pretty good. Business Insider FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Philip TaylorAmerica's new law on tax compliance is heavy-handed, inequitable and hypocritical. In the depths of recession in 2010, a jobs-obsessed Congress passed the Hiring Incentives to Restore Employment Act. Bolted on to it was the arcane-sounding Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act. There was scant debate about FATCA, as it is more commonly known, because it was touted as a way to bring in money by curbing offshore tax evasion. In tough times, such "revenue-generators" are no-brainers. Going after tax dodgers is understandable. But FATCA, which will take effect on July 1st, is overkill. America is the only large economy to tax its citizens on everything they earn anywhere in the world. FATCA's purpose is to ensure that not a centime or rouble that a "US person" has stashed away goes undetected by the IRS. In a piece of extraterritoriality stunning even by Washington's standards, the new law requires banks, funds and other financial institutions around the world to report assets held by American clients or face a ruinous 30% withholding tax. America is, in essence, using threats to outsource its financial policing. This is working: so far, more than 77,000 financial institutions have agreed to pass information to the IRS.  The costs of complying with FATCA are likely to dwarf the extra revenue it raises (see "Tax evasion: Dropping the bomb"). The law is also having unfortunate unintended consequences. The 7m Americans living abroad now wear a scarlet letter (presumably an "F"), thanks to FATCA. Many have been rejected by foreign providers of banking services, insurance and mortgages because, given the amount of paperwork needed to satisfy Uncle Sam, American clients are simply too much hassle. Foreign firms are less keen to hire Americans because of the extra tax complications. Not surprisingly, the number of Americans renouncing their citizenship has quadrupled since FATCA was hatched. Moreover, American citizens are not the only victims. The law's definition of a "US person" includes green-card holders and anyone with a substantial connection to the country, whatever that means. Nobody knows--so yet more confusion, and yet more fees for lawyers and accountants. Meanwhile, the drug dealers and sophisticated tax evaders who inspired all this will switch into non-financial assets, such as art and property, or hide behind shell companies and trusts. The latter would be easier to penetrate if reliable ownership information were collected, but often it is not--and America is one of the worst laggards (see Delaware, Nevada and all the other money-laundering paradises within its borders). FATCA's intrusiveness raises serious privacy issues. Other countries have reluctantly agreed to sign special side-agreements with America that allow their banks to comply without falling foul of domestic privacy laws. America will now have more information about its taxpayers' foreign wealth than it gathers on their domestic holdings. This has caused surprisingly little fuss. Financial privacy doesn't seem to resonate with the public in the same way as snooping into phone records. Most of these problems would melt away if America switched to the "territorial" system favoured by other advanced countries and taxed only those resident there, not all Americans everywhere. America should also embrace the OECD's efforts, already backed by more than 50 countries, to create a truly multilateral system in which tax information on residents' accounts and certain investments is shared annually. For that to work, America would need to hand over data similar to those which it demands from others--something it has hitherto appeared reluctant to do. The financial superpower looks ever more a regulatory bully, setting rules it ignores itself. Click here to subscribe to The Economist.    FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Philip TaylorAmerica's new law on tax compliance is heavy-handed, inequitable and hypocritical. In the depths of recession in 2010, a jobs-obsessed Congress passed the Hiring Incentives to Restore Employment Act. Bolted on to it was the arcane-sounding Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act. There was scant debate about FATCA, as it is more commonly known, because it was touted as a way to bring in money by curbing offshore tax evasion. In tough times, such "revenue-generators" are no-brainers. Going after tax dodgers is understandable. But FATCA, which will take effect on July 1st, is overkill. America is the only large economy to tax its citizens on everything they earn anywhere in the world. FATCA's purpose is to ensure that not a centime or rouble that a "US person" has stashed away goes undetected by the IRS. In a piece of extraterritoriality stunning even by Washington's standards, the new law requires banks, funds and other financial institutions around the world to report assets held by American clients or face a ruinous 30% withholding tax. America is, in essence, using threats to outsource its financial policing. This is working: so far, more than 77,000 financial institutions have agreed to pass information to the IRS.  The costs of complying with FATCA are likely to dwarf the extra revenue it raises (see "Tax evasion: Dropping the bomb"). The law is also having unfortunate unintended consequences. The 7m Americans living abroad now wear a scarlet letter (presumably an "F"), thanks to FATCA. Many have been rejected by foreign providers of banking services, insurance and mortgages because, given the amount of paperwork needed to satisfy Uncle Sam, American clients are simply too much hassle. Foreign firms are less keen to hire Americans because of the extra tax complications. Not surprisingly, the number of Americans renouncing their citizenship has quadrupled since FATCA was hatched. Moreover, American citizens are not the only victims. The law's definition of a "US person" includes green-card holders and anyone with a substantial connection to the country, whatever that means. Nobody knows--so yet more confusion, and yet more fees for lawyers and accountants. Meanwhile, the drug dealers and sophisticated tax evaders who inspired all this will switch into non-financial assets, such as art and property, or hide behind shell companies and trusts. The latter would be easier to penetrate if reliable ownership information were collected, but often it is not--and America is one of the worst laggards (see Delaware, Nevada and all the other money-laundering paradises within its borders). FATCA's intrusiveness raises serious privacy issues. Other countries have reluctantly agreed to sign special side-agreements with America that allow their banks to comply without falling foul of domestic privacy laws. America will now have more information about its taxpayers' foreign wealth than it gathers on their domestic holdings. This has caused surprisingly little fuss. Financial privacy doesn't seem to resonate with the public in the same way as snooping into phone records. Most of these problems would melt away if America switched to the "territorial" system favoured by other advanced countries and taxed only those resident there, not all Americans everywhere. America should also embrace the OECD's efforts, already backed by more than 50 countries, to create a truly multilateral system in which tax information on residents' accounts and certain investments is shared annually. For that to work, America would need to hand over data similar to those which it demands from others--something it has hitherto appeared reluctant to do. The financial superpower looks ever more a regulatory bully, setting rules it ignores itself. Click here to subscribe to The Economist.    FREE AppDownload
Flickr/jennie-oFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Why Some Investors Should Take Social Security Benefits Early (Wall Street Journal) Social security benefits are currently "unsustainable", and overdue for change, Scott Hanson at Hanson McClain Advisors warns that. Therefore, investors that have done well in terms of savings would be better off taking their benefits early, since the same benefits might not be around much longer. "This idea is not that far fetched. Thanks to new taxes and amendments to Social Security during the 1980s and 1990s, benefits to retirees with higher incomes have been significantly reduced," Hanson wrote in a WSJ column. "Additionally, we're already seeing something very similar happen with surcharges in Medicare Parts B and D. When a retiree's income reaches a certain threshold, they're now required to pay higher premiums. That change came without much political wrangling or voter backlash--it just arrived one day as part of a tax package." "For me, the question for advisers and clients then becomes what is the likelihood that you will actually receive this income in the future? What is the probability that you will be repaid on your investment in Social Security? As advisers we do some sort of risk analysis on any investments our clients make--that same evaluation has to be done on this investment as well." Advisors Need To Prepare For The Next Generation Of Investors (Vanguard) With baby boomers retiring, most major wealth holders are quickly moving to the next generation. However, a study cited by Vanguard said that half of investors 30-42 are dissatisfied with their current advisor. Vanguard advises connecting with clients' families to better anticipate changed expectations and plan for inherited assets. "Forward-thinking advisors can turn this lack of engagement to their advantage by developing relationships with clients' families well before money passes between generations." Vanguard said. "With these meaningful but uncommon connections, an advisor is strongly positioned to retain assets and gain a new generation of clients when wealth eventually transitions."   Financial Planning Survey Shows Retirement Planning Is Down, Risk Tolerance Is Up (Financial Planning)   The Financial Planning Retirement Advisor Confidence Index dropped to 54.2 in June, after three months of strong tax-related retirement activity. "The survey, which asked respondents to focus on May activity, showed big pullbacks in two retirement-related components: both the number of retirement products sold (which pulled back 8.2 points) and the dollar amount contributed to retirement plans (down 10.6 points). Both pulled the overall index downward," according to Rachel Elson at Financial Planning.   "Advisors also noted a disconnect between client sentiment and portfolio allocations: They reported increasing allocations to both cash and bonds, despite growing client interest in taking greater portfolio risk. 'Clients who didn’t have high equity allocations in 2013 now have equity envy,' one respondent says." Younger Generations Are Key To Understanding What Technology Businesses Need (InvestmentNews) Businesses need to constantly adapt in order to survive, and that includes incorporating tech advancements. Sheryl Rowling from InvestmentNews points out the first step to understanding the technology needs of the future is reaching past the generation gap. "To have a sustainable business, advisers must reach out to younger generations, both as clients and employees. But there is a huge generation gap brought on by the age of technology. Recognizing that gap is the first step in building a bridge," Rowling said. "Mastering technology, rather than just using it, is imperative to creating a firm that will last. To do that, we must hire more tech-savvy employees and listen to their ideas with open minds. The next generation wants to be involved in influencing the future. We can teach them the financial business but we need to rely on them to move our practices into the future." NAPFA Will Start Losing Members (Financial Planning) The National Association of Personal Financial Advisors (NAPFA) will lose an estimated 5%, or 125 planners, after a fee-only rule change to match the Certified Financial Planner Board. "The rule change eliminates an exemption, in place since 2004, that had allowed members to keep ownership stakes of 2% or less in firms that take commissions," Financial Planning's Ann Marsh reported. "The new rules are effective immediately. Geoffrey Brown, NAPFA's CEO, says the group will review members on a case-by-case basis as each member's annual membership comes up for renewal." "NAPFA requires that all of its members -- currently about 2,500 -- be fee-only planners and accept no commissions. The 2% exemption allowed larger firms more complex ownership structures, as long as they only took fees from their clients. NAPFA began reexamining the exemption last year, when the CFP Board publicly clarified its rules for use of the term fee-only after summarily dismissing its own chairman in part over such an ownership stake." FREE AppDownload
 REUTERS/Steve DipaolaThe U.S. mortgage market has had a rough go of it in the first quarter of this year, with mortgage volumes in Q1 down 60% on the year. This came on the back of the severe winter, higher mortgage rates, and regulatory uncertainty. But the mortgage market is changing. Since the middle of 2013, the U.S. mortgage market has slowly been "undergoing a major reset from a refinance- to a purchase-driven market cycle," writes Anand K Nallathambi, president of CoreLogic. Nallathambi points out four things that will "change the face of the mortgage market:" FREE AppDownload
APTexas Republican Gov. Rick Perry on Friday urged Congress to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank's charter, marking a break from many congressional Republican leaders and top Republicans from his own state. In a letter to congressional leaders and copied to the Texas congressional delegation, Perry said failure to reauthorize the bank would cost the U.S. jobs and drive up the cost of U.S. goods. Perry also said Texas, the largest exporting state in the nation, would see the biggest negative effect. Congress is in the midst of an increasingly heated debate about whether to reauthorize the bank's charter, which expires at the end of September. The fight has made unusual alliances — the White House, Democratic leaders, and many pro-business Republican leaders and groups support the charter's renewal, while Tea Party-aligned politicians and groups and some liberal Democratic lawmakers stand in opposition. There are rumblings the dispute could even lead as far as the second federal government shutdown in two years. Leading the push to close the bank has been Rep. Jeb Hensarling, a fellow Texas Republican. He is the chair of the powerful House Financial Services Committee. Hensarling has called the Ex-Im Bank an example of "corporate welfare" and government-sponsored cronyism, but Perry's letter directly countered those points. The bank provides direct loans, guarantees, and credit insurance to aid foreign purchasers in buying American-made goods.  Perry said a failure to reauthorize the bank's charter would put Texas' business at a competitive global disadvantage, providing 10 examples of companies in the agricultural, manufacturing, and technology sectors.  "I understand some are concerned about the bank, but if there are ways to improve the program by making it more transparent, I would encourage you to do so as part of the reauthorization," Perry wrote.  "To unilaterally disarm by not reauthorizing the Ex-Im Bank puts American companies at a disadvantage in their ability to compete in the global marketplace, will cost jobs, and will drive up prices for American-made goods." Perry's move earned immediate criticism from some of the groups who oppose renewing the bank's charter renewal. The Club for Growth pointed to 2011 comments from Perry, when he criticized the Obama administration after the Export-Import Bank contributed a $2 billion loan guarantee to a Brazilian oil company. "Rick Perry must have forgotten that he did a great job criticizing the Export-Import Bank back when he was running for President," Club for Growth spokesman Barney Keller said in a statement. "The Export-Import Bank picks winners and losers in the free market and it should be eliminated completely." Here's Perry's full letter: Rick Perry Ex-Im letter  This post has been updated to include a comment from the Club for Growth. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/John GressA British Petroleum oil refinery sits on the shore of Lake Michigan in Whiting, Indiana, August 15, 2007. (Reuters) - All U.S. crude that is processed by a distillation tower, not only light oil known as condensate, is exempt from the 40-year crude export ban, U.S. government and industry sources said on Friday. The Department of Commerce determined this week that two companies that produce condensate, a light oil, can export the petroleum if it is processed by a distillation tower. The sources said any crude that goes through the process can also be exported, potentially widening the amount of petroleum U.S. producers can send to markets abroad. The Department of Commerce told Irving, Texas-based Pioneer Natural Resources and Houston-based Enterprise Product Partners this week that they can export crude that has been lightly processed after they asked the department for clarification. Some oil field equipment called stabilizers can be adjusted to qualify as more complicated distillation towers, which could further widen what kind of petroleum can be shipped, said one of the sources. In a ruling earlier this year, the Department of Commerce told Pioneer and Enterprise that processing their oil through a condensate stabilizer - a much cheaper, easier form of processing that simply separates light petroleum gases from crude oil - would also qualify it for export. By focusing on how the oil is treated, rather than what it is, the Department of Commerce ruling appears to open an option for companies that produce traditional crude to get around the crude ban by lightly boiling their own oil. A distillation tower is a type of refining equipment typically used to heat crude oil to the point that it separates into refined fuels like gasoline and naphtha. The new interpretation of the ruling, which has not been previously reported, will add to the intense speculation over how much of the U.S. shale oil boom might reach overseas markets. Many things about the regulations remain unclear, however. For instance, it is unclear how the Commerce Department would define a distillation tower. Thus far, most focus has been on surging Texas production of what is known as condensate, a type of oil that is so light it often remains in gas form until it is pumped out of the ground. But a broader interpretation of the distillation process might allow other producers to export crude that has been minimally processed. (Reporting by Timothy Gardner and Kristen Hays in Houston) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eric ThayerBlackRock Advisors received a Wells Notice last week, the firm said in an 8-K filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. A Wells Notice is a letter from the SEC sent to firms when the agency is planning to bring an enforcement action against them.  In the 8-K filing, BlackRock said the Wells Notice pertains to a former portfolio manager. In June 2012, Daniel J. Rice III, who was a high-profile energy portfolio manager at BlackRock, retired from the firm. BlackRock said this move was to avoid the perception of a potential conflict of interest because of Rice's involvement with his family's natural gas company, Rice Energy. Rice became a billionaire earlier this year after Rice Energy became publicly traded, Bloomberg News reported.   Here's the 8-K filing:  In June 2012, BlackRock Advisors, LLC (“BlackRock Advisors”), a subsidiary of BlackRock, Inc. (the “Company”), announced that its then-employee Daniel J. Rice III would, among other things, no longer serve as a portfolio manager for the BlackRock Energy &amp; Resources Portfolio in order to address any perception of a potential conflict of interest as a result of his personal investments and involvement in a family business, Rice Energy LP and related entities.  The Company concluded that there was no improper trading within the portfolios managed by Mr. Rice and that no clients were harmed.  BlackRock Advisors further announced that Mr. Rice would retire from BlackRock Advisors, which he did in December 2012. Since 2012, BlackRock Advisors has cooperated with the staff of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) in an investigation of this matter. On June 17, 2014, BlackRock Advisors received a written “Wells Notice” from the SEC staff indicating the staff’s preliminary determination to recommend to the Commission that the SEC file an action against BlackRock Advisors. A Wells Notice is neither a formal allegation of wrongdoing nor a finding that BlackRock Advisors violated any law.  Rather, it provides BlackRock Advisors an opportunity to respond to issues raised by the SEC staff and offer its perspective prior to any SEC decision. The SEC staff has taken the preliminary view that BlackRock Advisors’ disclosure as it related to Mr. Rice’s situation, and its policies and procedures, were inadequate.  The Wells Notice indicates that the basis of any action against BlackRock Advisors would be violations of Section 206 of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and Rule 206(4)-7 thereunder, as well as Rule 38a-1 of the Investment Company Act of 1940.  BlackRock Advisors does not believe these provisions were violated. BlackRock Advisors will continue to cooperate fully with the SEC’s inquiry and intends to make a submission to the SEC staff setting forth why no action should be commenced against it. The Company does not expect any resolution of the matter to have a material adverse effect on its financial results or operations. FREE AppDownload
Yuya Tamai/flickr Dogecoin was supposed to be the kinder face of Bitcoin. Created on a lark in response to the internet's bizarre meme imagining what a Shiba Inu would sound like if it could talk, the cryptocurrency now has a reputation for sponsoring uplifting causes like sending athletes from developing countries to the Olympics.  But in recent weeks, three prominent Dogecoiners announced they were leaving cryptocurrency's community: Dogecoin co-creator Jackson Palmer, as well as Ben Doernberg and Eric Nakagawa, two heads of the Dogecoin Foundation that also disbanded.  The departures coincided with the rise of a company called Moolah, a digital currency exchange specializing in Dogecoin. Moolah is perhaps best known for leading the successful campaign to sponsor a NASCAR driver. Its founder, Alex Green, has given away many of his Dogecoin holdings to help promote the currency.  Last month, Doernberg published a post expressing fears over Moolah's business practices. He was mainly concerned about the lack of consumer protections Dogecoiners who were investing in the firm seemed to be incurring; Moolah ended up raising nearly $500,000. In response, Moolah said it did have proper controls in place, while calling Doernberg "toxic" and asked him to resign from the Dogecoin Foundation.  In recent days, a new issue has arisen over the trademarking of "Doge" and "Dogecoin." A company called Ultra PRO, which makes protective coverings for valuables, sought to trademark the "Doge" meme, causing alarm within the Dogecoin community that a third party would have rights over Dogecoin projects. Palmer, the Dogecoin co-creator, attempted to assuage the community's concerns, explaining he'd reached out to Ultra PRO and came away convinced the firm would not try to stop Dogecoin folks from using the trademark.  Moolah continued to hold that Ultra Pro should not be trusted with the trademark, and that Palmer was guilty by association. That was the final straw for Palmer, who in his comment on reddit announcing his departure this week said reddit's Dogecoin community had become "sadly cult-like."  Meanwhile, Dogecoin has faced technical dilemmas. The cryptocurrency was programmed in such a way that the limit on how many Dogecoins can ever be created could be reached by the end of the year. The incentives required for people to turn their computers into "miners" to confirm transactions have thus become less enticing, making the Dogecoin network more vulnerable to a malicious actor executing a 51<U+2105> attack. All this has taken an immense toll on Dogecoin growth. The number of visitors to the Dogecoin reddit page — the cryptocurrency's defacto homebase — has fallen from around 45,000 uniques a day to fewer than 20,000. Meanwhile, the price of Dogecoin has fallen 25% in the past 30 days and 40% in the past 90, according to Coinmarketcap.  Coinmarketcap Dogecoin holdouts now largely accept Moolah's prominence. A new Dogecoin Foundation began to form a month ago with Palmer's blessing, and its new leaders say they are unfazed by Moolah's stature in the Dogecoin world. "Moolah was one of the first businesses to give our community a shot," a new foundation member who goes by "Goodshibe" told BI. "In a decentralized community, the strongest personalities tend to rise to the top. There's been a false dichotomy created, that our coin can *only* be fun and worthless or valuable and 'serious'." But everyone seems to agree that the good natured tone the community once prided itself on has evaporated. &nbsp; FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Tony GentileU.S. fans pose for the camera before the 2014 World Cup Group G soccer match between the U.S. and Germany at the Pernambuco arena in Recife June 26, 2014. The fan in the center wears a GoPro on his forehead. Markets finished the day higher, but finished the week mixed, with Dow lagging the S&amp;P 500 and the Nasdaq. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories of the day: 1) The University of Michigan's final consumer sentiment survey for June came in at 82.5, better than the 82.0 that was expected by economists. The final reading was also better than the 81.2 preliminary reading reported two weeks ago. Following the report, Cooper Howes at Barclays said, "Consumer perceptions of current conditions have been steadily grinding higher in recent years as housing and labor markets have continued to improve, and we expect this trend to persist as the unemployment rate falls further this year and wage growth picks up." Howes added that the housing market has also been bolstering consumer confidence. "Another factor boosting consumer confidence has been the housing market recovery. After a soft first few months of the year, both new and existing home sales picked up significantly in May, and this improvement was reflected in the June survey of consumer sentiment as more than half of consumers reported positive views of home selling conditions for the first time since 2006." 2) GoPro rallied for the second straight day, closing up 15% after gaining as much as 20% in its second day as a public company. As of its closing price today, GoPro's market cap is more than $4 billion, or more than that of U.S. Steel. Yesterday, BI's Julie Bort noted that GoPro founder's Nicholas Woodman's entire family became millionaires after the company went public, and today was another huge day for them. 3) Du Pont shares fell more than 3.5% after the chemical and agricultural giant last night said that its earnings in the second quarter and fiscal year will be lower due to the harsh weather and soybeans. The company said last night, "Given favorable soybean economics, soybean sales volumes in North America are higher than expected. However, the higher soybean volume will not fully offset the decline in corn volume, especially given the transition under way in the company's soybean lineup to newer, higher performing products. The company believes this is a short-term negative trend, and there will be strong demand for its next generation soybean products. The revised outlook also reflects lower than expected crop protection herbicide sales, largely due to weather." 4) Crumbs Bake Shop last night disclosed that effective July 1, the company's stock will be delisted from the Nasdaq. We covered the decline of Crumbs here and here. 5) Zillow was in focus after influential short-selling firm Citron Research published a report that was critical of the company's recent agreement with Douglas Elliman Real Estate.  6) Morgan Stanley analyst Adam Jonas published a research note today that wondered if auto dealers aren't cutting deals on the sales floor that may not translate to top-line gains for car makers. Jonas says in his note that, "We think more attention should be paid to the risk of consumers being taken out of their normal trade cycle, creating a vacuum." 7) The Russell Indexes, including the closely followed Russell 2000, completed their annual reconstitution after the market close. If you're wondering what the Russell Reconstitution is, or why it matters, we've got you covered.  See Also: The Midwest Is Almost Entirely Free Of Middle East Oil » FREE AppDownload
YoutubeAuto sales have going been gangbusters lately. But are automakers really thriving alongside them? In a new note, Morgan Stanley's Adam Jonas says he has heard evidence of how auto dealers may be facilitating stronger sales numbers that may not actually be translating into top-line gains for car makers. Mostly, the alleged juicing has been in the form of extended auto-loan terms, of up to 70 months, Jonas says. That has the effect of making the monthly payment more affordable, though ultimately the consumer doesn't pay any less. This allows dealers to sweeten the offer, permitting them to notch sales, giving the appearance of stronger upfront revenues even when the payment period has been extended.  Jonas imagines something like the following conversation is taking place at dealerships across America: Customer: So I want to buy this SUV. Dealer: Got plenty in stock and can get you out the door in a base version for $521/mo ($30k loan, 60 mth term, 1.7% APR). Whatcha say? Customer: Darn… my budget is $500/mth and I really can’t go any higher than that. Dealer: Hmmm... lemme talk with the folks in finance and see what we can come up with. (Dealer steps away, comes back 5 minutes later and hands the Customer a sheet of paper) Dealer: Good news, we got your payment down to $409/mo ($30k loan, 84 mth term, 4.0% APR). We got a deal? Customer (looking down at term sheet, a broad smile forms from ear to ear): Not only do we have a deal, but now I can get 4WD and the tech package! How’d you do that?  Dealer: They’re running a special on 7 year loans at a modestly higher rate. Everything else is the same. (Satisfied customer drives away in an SUV with an ATP [average transaction price] nearly 20% higher than the base price).  "At the end of the month the published data shows higher sales and higher ATPs, giving the image of improved mix when precisely the opposite is occurring," Jonas writes. "We think more attention should be paid to the risk of consumers being taken out of their normal trade cycle, creating a vacuum." Hmmm ... FREE AppDownload
Everyone learns the number one rule about triangles in high school: the angles of a triangle add up to 180 degrees.But did you know that sometimes they don't? Triangles are much more interesting than you ever imagined. We're going to disprove this fact with one picture.Keep in mind, however, that the above rule (namely, that the angles of a triangle add up to 180 degrees) is not false. In fact, it is true — however, it is only true in Euclidean geometry. That's the geometry that you learned in high school. In Euclidean geometry, the problems and shapes deal with flat surfaces. But the world isn't flat. So we're going to take a look at non-Euclidean geometry, or the geometry that deals with 3D surfaces such as spheres or saddle shapes. That's where things like triangles start to get weird. Take a look at the larger triangle on the left. Wikipedia commons What you're seeing is a triangle that is drawn on the earth, a 3D sphere. You can see that the bottom two angles are both 90 degrees and that the top is 50 degrees. The sum of these angles is 230 degrees, not 180. Why is this happening? Take a look at the two lines at the equator — they look parallel. However, in elliptic geometry there are no parallel lines because all lines eventually intersect. On a sphere, the natural analogue of a line on a flat plane is a great circle, like the equator or the longitude lines on a globe — they circle around the whole earth. So when you extend these "lines" that are seemingly parallel to each other, they eventually have to intersect. And when this happens, naturally these lines form additional angles, such as the 50 degree one at the North Pole. You're probably wondering about the second triangle on the right. As you can see, its angles add up to 180 degrees even though it is drawn over the curvature of the earth. Why is that? Well, this triangle is very small relative to the earth's surface (unlike the triangle to the left). As a result, it is less affected by the curvature of the earth. Confusing? Not really. Imagine you drew a triangle with a piece of chalk on the sidewalk. It looks like you drew it over a flat surface, but the earth is still technically a curved surface. So your triangle — just like the one above — can seem more like a Euclidean geometry triangle because when you get really close to a curved surface, it looks flat. In other words, the larger the triangle is on a spherical shape, the more of the curvature of the earth it will cover. And then everything you thought you knew about basic triangles starts to change. FREE AppDownload
Zilberman Sands Photography / FlickrThe Russell Indexes will complete their 2014 reconstitution after the market close today. The Russell Indexes include the Russell Global, 1000, 2000, and 3000. The reconstitution happens once a year, and basically involves adding and subtracting stocks based on whether or not they meet certain criteria. UBS' Art Cashin noted earlier today that due to the reconstitution, volume in the market today should, "swell significantly." This reconstitution will come and go without much fanfare for most stocks. But for companies on the fringe, being included in the Russell can be a huge deal. Here's what you need to know: 1) The Russell Indexes are stock indexes compiled by Russell Investments, which is owned by Frank Russell Co., and was just purchased by the London Stock Exchange for $2.7 billion. 2) The most closely watched of the Russell Indexes is the Russell 2000, which houses the 2,000 smallest components of the Russell 3,000. 3) The Russell 3000 is comprised of the 3,000 largest stocks in the U.S. market. 4) The Russell 2000 is often referred to by investors as the "small cap" index and is typically more volatile than larger benchmark indexes like the S&amp;P 500, the Dow Jones Industrial Average, and the Nasdaq composite. 5) Russell reconstitutes its indexes once a year. Many indexes, like the S&amp;P 500 or Dow, will change their membership as companies are acquired or as companies get bigger or smaller. Russell says, "The Russell Indexes are annually reconstituted because our research has shown that this strikes a reasonable balance between accuracy and cost." 6) Volume will be heavy, but the Russell Reconstitution doesn't really matter. This rejiggering of a stock index is the kind of thing that traders and investment managers get into, but ultimately, it doesn't really matter. Rich Barry of NYSE has some great commentary on just what the fuss is all about: "In the previous two years, the reconstitution day ranked in the top two busiest trading sessions, volume-wise. The Street estimates that ~$42B will trade as a result of the adjustment, resulting in one of the biggest trading days of the year in terms of dollar volume. Asset managers and investors will have to realign their portfolios to match up with the new shifts in indices, which promises to be a fun day for the floor traders down here who will be running all over the place trying to get their orders filled on the close. Remember the floor trader's mantra, 'commissions pay tuitions.'" If anything funny happens in the market during the last hour, here's your likely culprit. FREE AppDownload
Courtesy of ZillowInfluential short-selling firm Citron Research just published a report that says online real estate marketplace Zillow just forfeited what could have been its most lucrative market.  Citron, which has been critical of Zillow's business model over the last couple years, says Zillow has made a huge blunder in a new agreement reached with Douglas Elliman Real Estate, a large residential broker in New York City. Under the agreement, all of Douglas Elliman's listings will appear as "featured listings" on the Yahoo-Zillow real estate network.  But Citron believes Zillow is giving away a revenue opportunity — and that a centralizing market could force Zillow to cut many more deals like this one for listings feeds.  "Elliman shouldn’t be Zillow’s marketing partner- they should be Zillow's customer… Not just any customer, one of its largest customers!" Citron says.  Citron acknowledges the terms of the deal were not disclosed. Zillow shares were largely flat Friday.  Zillow's stock is a story unto itself. Over the last year, shares are up more than 120%, but the stock is one of the most shorted names in the market. According to data from FinViz, the "short float," or the percent of shares outstanding that are being borrowed by investors who think the price will fall, is 33%. For some perspective, Apple's short float is 0.28%, Coca-Cola's is 1.2%, and Chipotle's is 3.82%. Many would argue that part, if not most, of Zillow's move higher could be considered a "short squeeze," or buyers bidding up the stock because supply is limited. When shorting a stock, an investor must borrow the shares with the intent of buying them back later at a lower price. If a large percent of a company's shares are held short, supply will be constrained, creating artificial demand that will push the price higher. Hence, the "squeeze." Carl Icahn bought a ton of Herbalife stock after Bill Ackman's famous short presentation, and said Ackman could become the victim of "the mother of all short squeezes." In its report,Citron notes that since January 1, 2013, Zillow is up 400%. But over that same period, analysts' earnings expectations for the company's 2014 earnings have fallen more than 70%. Citron also takes a swipe at Zillow CEO Spencer Rascoff, who they say has "mesmerized" Wall Street with "enthusiastic misdirection" away from a profitable business. Rascoff appeared on CNBC earlier this week, and CNBC anchor Carl Quintanilla tweeted that when Rascoff was asked about skeptics who don't trust the company's high multiple and opaque metrics, he replied: "Haters gonna hate." It's clear that Citron — and others on Finance Twitter — has a bone to pick with Zillow, but any stock that screams higher like Zillow is worth paying attention to. FREE AppDownload
Stocks are falling. Each of the indexes has gone red in last few minutes, with the Dow down 67 points, the S&amp;P 500 down 5 points, and the Nasdaq down 2 points. The Russell Indexes rebalance after the close this afternoon, and in a note earlier this morning, UBS' Art Cashin said the rebalancing would make volume "swell significantly." Google Finance FREE AppDownload
John Rodygin/ShutterstockAmerica has a housing shortage. The improving labor market is expected to create more demand for housing over time, as those who moved back in with their parents will slowly begin to contribute to household formation.  It's become an increasingly common refrain that supply (or more specifically, lack thereof) is one of the key factors holding back the housing recovery. Now one of America's biggest homebuilders has given us the sheer scale of it. On an earnings call on Thursday, Lennar CEO, Stuart Miller, said the U.S. now faces a 4 million deficit in homes (emphasis ours): "I still think that there are complications in managing a diverse array of products and buildings that are located in scattered locations. But given the fact that we have a long-term production deficit in this country in terms of the amount of homes multi and single-family homes that have been delivered over the past few years since we went into the downturn and we kind of estimate that that’s about 4 million in deficit over the past few years." A new paper from the Joint Center for Housing Studies of Harvard University identifies the key things that have held back housing supply:  "Many sellers are unwilling to accept today’s prices, given how low they are relative to the market peak. Expiration of the Mortgage Forgiveness Debt Relief Act at the end of 2013 also created a significant disincentive for under- water homeowners to sell because these households now face taxes on any debt forgiven in a short sale. In addition, owners that refinanced recently would have to pay higher interest rates if they moved to new homes. Longer-term factors are also at play, including the aging of the population and the consequent decline in the number of households that move each year." "Tight inventories feed on themselves by limiting the options for potential trade-up buyers, in turn preventing those households from listing their own homes for sale. "…Yet another reason for the shortage of inventory is that millions of homes have been taken off the market and are sitting empty. According to the Housing Vacancy Survey, the number of vacant homes held off market spiked to over 7 million units during the housing downturn and is only now beginning to level off. If the vacant/held-off-market share of the housing stock (currently 5.6 percent) were the same as in 2001 (4.5 percent), an additional 1.4 million homes would now be available for sale or rent. And then of course there's the other problem we've heard from homebuilders for some time: the shortage of lots. Fred Cooper at Toll Brothers told Business Insider that there are shortages in approved lots. He said small builders in particular are having a hard time raising capital to buy and build projects in many markets.  "You don't have that component of the industry supplying lots to the industry in any large scale and that's a typical source of supply that isn't coming in force now," Cooper said in an telephone interview. But things aren't all dire on the supply end. Existing homes for sale on the market have recently moved up from record lows. "The absolute level of home on the market is up 23% year-to-date," writes Gluskin Sheff's David Rosenberg. It is a "welcome development as it helps to ease the supply constraints that have restricted activity and somewhat tempers the pace of house price appreciation." FREE AppDownload
WikimediaPaul Singer, CEO of Elliott ManagementRight now Argentina is in danger of a calamity, the likes of which the world hasn't seen since 2001, and it's all because of one hedge fund manager's tried and true strategy to make money off of distressed debt. That's right, bringing a country to its knees is a "strategy." According to a U.S. court's ruling, if Argentina does not pay a group of hedge fund managers over $1.3 billion worth of bonds by July 30, the Republic could go into default. If it goes into default — investors lose faith its capacity to pay, interest rates on its bonds surge, and the country is forced to print money to pay creditors — its economy could tailspin. Then again, if Argentina does pay this group of hedge fund managers over $1.3 billion worth of bonds by July 30, it opens itself up to lawsuits from other investors who also own those bonds — lawsuits that could cost the country up to $15 billion. That's over half the money it has in its central bank. So what's a country to do? And how did it get to this desperate point? The bonds in contention in this case are Argentina's sovereign bonds issued in 2001, just as the country was collapsing. That collapse, to hedge fund manager Paul Singer, looked like an opportunity to use a common strategy: distressed debt investing. Here's how it works. But not Paul Singer. No sir. And that's where this got complicated. Singer is the man leading the group of hedge funds (known collectively as NML) in their effort to collect 100 cents on the dollar for Argentina's debt where other investors have taken a 70% haircut on their payout. To the Republic, that makes NML "vultures." Creatures that wait for other animals to hunt and eat the carrion left behind. It's not a nice thing to call someone. But Singer couldn't care less; he has done this before. In fact, he's the king of this strategy. In 1995 Singer bought Peruvian bank debt for $20 million and then sued until he got a $58 million payout. In 2002 and 2003 Singer made over $100 million in interest alone from buying $30 million worth of debt owned by Congo-Brazzaville. Compared to Argentina, both those investments were a cake walk for Singer. No one kicks or screams louder or harder than President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner. She is a master of political theater — "they'll come to understand the strength of our national posture," she once said in a speech, "we will not pay by any means necessary." That, combined with the horrific memory of Argentina's past defaults, makes this very sensitive to Argentines. So for the past decade and change Singer has had to sue the country into oblivion, citing a pari passu clause in Argentina's bond agreement and arguing that it had a right to go after Argnetina's money wherever it may be according to the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act. Here's what that means: ... Argentina continues to thumb its nose at the international community by picking and choosing at its own discretion which laws it will observe and which ones it will ignore. As reported in our last quarterly investor letter, in early October we obtained from a Ghanaian court an order detaining an Argentine naval training vessel in order to secure judgments against Argentina rendered in the U.S. courts. Argentina appealed to the Tribunal for the Law of the Sea Convention (yes, there is actually such a body) in Hamburg, which in mid-December ordered Ghana to release the ship. Before the Ghanaian courts could even consider whether the Tribunal’s ruling should be given effect in that country – a question as to which there was considerable doubt, given that Ghana has enacted no substantive law providing that orders of relief from this body supervene the decisions of the Ghanaian courts – Argentina grabbed its ship and skipped town. "Mr. Kicillof suggested Argentina would go to the international court of The Hague to demand the sovereign immunity the US Justice rejected to grant," Deutsche Bank wrote in a note Friday morning. "Within minutes, NY Second District Judge Griesa confirmed the stay will not be reinstated and holdout lawyers asked the Judge to hold Argentina in contempt for ordering restructured bond payment excluding holdout debt. Simultaneously talks have continued between the Republic and the holdout representatives guided by the special mediator named by the court. In our view, the Argentine authorities are aware of the terrible implications a default would create, and they also know that a debt swap to local debt is not a solution to the existing legal/technical challenge. However, the authorities seem to be willing to use all available political and legal means to gain time and negotiation space. Therefore, although the Argentine government continues to show willingness to pay all creditors, negotiations to settle a proper formula might take time and likely prevent full debt service next week." And that is how an investor can take a country to the brink of disaster. FREE AppDownload
Getty/Paula BronsteinThe youngest generation of consumers, Generation Z, are traditional retail's worst nightmare. Loosely qualified as anyone born after 1990, most of them are still too young to have their own income. But they have significant control over household purchases, such as toys, groceries, and clothing, according to a study by Sparks &amp; Honey, a New York-based marketing firm. They also have an average allowance of nearly $70 a month, which translates to $44 billion a year, the study found. But unlike generations that have preceded them, they lack brand loyalty.  "The products themselves are more important to Generation Z than the brands that produce them, and these consumers will change brands easily in search of higher quality," according to Arkansas-based marketing agency Martin-Wilbourne Partners. When millennials were teens, they were spending the majority of their budgets on clothing, according to Piper Jaffray's semi-annual survey on teen spending.  Members of Generation Z, on the other hand, spend most of their money on food and beverages, Piper Jaffray's most recent survey found. Starbucks is their favorite restaurant brand, followed by McDonald's, Chipotle, Olive Garden, and Taco Bell. This shift in spending has contributed to the downfall of shopping malls, which were once considered prime destinations for teen meetups. Mall traffic among teenagers has declined 30% over the past decade, according to the Piper Jaffray survey. American teens visited malls an average of 29 times in 2014, compared to 38 times in 2007. The trend has spelled disaster for many mall-based teen brands, such as Abercrombie &amp; Fitch, Aeropostale, and American Eagle, which are all experiencing sales declines.  To make things even more difficult, today's teens are making it harder for retailers to track their activity online.  "As social media natives attuned to NSA surveillance issues, they are more concerned about disabling their phone's geolocation than their privacy settings," according to the Sparks &amp; Honey report. "Gen Z are drawn to incognito media such as Snapchat, Secret and Whisper." To reach the youngest generation of consumers, companies must engage them across multiple social media platforms and never attempt to stifle conversation about their products, according to Kathy Savitt, the founder and CEO of Lockerz, a Seattle-based social commerce site. "Companies that expect Generation Z to be loyal based on a carefully crafted brand image and marketing message will find that their effort is wasted," Savitt writes in an editorial published by Mashable. "Generation Z simply doesn’t buy it. Instead, the product itself is what’s important, regardless of marketing campaigns." "What does Generation Z care about?" she writes. "Finding and sharing the best stuff in the world. They aren’t just consumers, they are curators... As a result, marketers need to make it easy to share what their Gen Z customers love. From Facebook 'Likes' to branded tweets to Polyvore’s brand expression collages, it’s never been easier to share your opinion online." But companies should be careful not to moderate or hide negative reviews, she adds.  "Promoting an 'open brand' ethos will lead to better informed and more passionate curators," Savitt writes. FREE AppDownload
Facebook/CrumbsOn Thursday, Crumbs Bake Shop (CRMB) filed documents with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) indicating that the Nasdaq market would delist CRMB stock at the beginning of next month. Not surprisingly, CRMB shares plunged more than 25% in Friday morning trading. Crumbs said that a request to maintain its common stock listing had been rejected by Nasdaq. Crumbs has not said if it will appeal the stock market’s decision. The Crumbs delisting comes after its most recent quarterly SEC filing said that there was “substantial doubt as to Crumbs’ ability to continue as a going concern.” The Nasdaq will stop the trading of Crumbs stock on July 1, the New York Times notes. Founded in New York City in 2003, Crumbs had expanded to 65 outlets in 12 states as of this year. Featuring an array of 4-inch cupcakes topped with candy and icing, Crumbs held its IPO in 2011. FREE AppDownload
&nbsp; Jennifer Polland/Business InsiderThe revamped interior of New York City's Tavern on the Green.Critics and customers alike have weighed in on New York City’s newly reopened Tavern on the Green in Central Park, and no one is too impressed. After filing for bankruptcy and closing in 2009, the 150-year-old landmark received a $20 million, two-year makeover from new owners Jim Caiola and David Salama. They made the rooms more airy, tore down the old, imposing Crystal Room, and added a gorgeous 300-seat courtyard and 110-seat garden area that looked out over Sheep Meadow. It had all the makings of a hit. But top critics — including The New York Times’ Pete Wells, The New York Post’s Steve Cuozzo, and Grub Street’s Adam Platt — say this restaurant is just not worth it. Jennifer Polland/Business InsiderThe new garden area and courtyard that looks out over Sheep Meadow.NY Times’ Pete Wells declared “It’s not a good restaurant yet by any measure.” He gave Tavern on the Green a “Satisfactory (No Stars)” rating, writing: "In time, the kitchen may figure out how to get plates on the table while they are still hot. The chef, Katy Sparks, may rethink some of the overworked, underdelivering recipes. The hosts may learn how to read their reservations screen so they don’t tell a customer he’s the first to arrive and ask him to wait while the rest of his party is already in the restaurant’s inner recesses, wondering if he’s gone for a carriage ride. Somebody may tell the servers not to drop the check while people are still eating dessert. The sommeliers may turn down the thermostat so that red wines aren’t the temperature of a kiddie pool." And of the wine options: "The wine list is reasonably priced but baffling, with mainstream hits and underground favorites and unknown quantities shuffled together, as if a hundred people chosen at random had been asked to name the last bottle they’d opened. Cocktails and beer are also available." Despite an initially positive first experience when it first opened back in April, The Post’s Steve Cuozzo returned to find that “Tavern on the Green is a very different, and much more crowded, place.” After a few bad meals, he gave the new Central Park restaurant 1 and a half stars. He wrote of the food: "Dry, funky bluefish pâté in a jar, anyone? In a city of eater-friendly, breast-trimmed quail, Tavern’s little birds, served whole, challenge the most intrepid bone-pickers to extract a molecule of meat." And the decor: "The design’s as schizo as the menu. The clean-lined, white-on-beige “Central Park Room” is a more fun place to sit now that its floor-to-ceiling glass wall gazes into the lit and lively courtyard. Yet its airy cheer makes the dimly lit, peak-roofed “South Wing” — a retread of an annex previously used for parties and holiday-crowd overflow — seem dingier. So cramped that waiters slam you when they pass, it’s a must to avoid." Hall CompanyAnother view of the 150-year-old restaurant's interior.Grub Streets’ Adam Platt agreed with Wells, giving the reboot a “No Stars” review: "The wood-roasted Maine mussels didn’t taste of wood or smoke at all and were dappled with the kind of vulcanized croutons one usually encounters in a high-school buffet line. The trio of ceviches (salmon, yellowfin, and scallops) tasted vaguely of cleaning chemicals, and the smoked- and cured-fish plate would have been better if the organic Irish smoked-salmon portion of the dish hadn’t contained sand grit." Yelp reviewers were equally unimpressed with their food, noting that while the revamped restaurant and its view were extremely beautiful, the food wasn’t served hot and did not live up to the rather expensive prices. It currently has a 2 and a half star rating. But hey, at least it’s pretty. &nbsp; FREE AppDownload
Suzanne Plunkett/ReutersLike this swanky pad seen in south Kensington in west London.The annual rate of house price inflation in London soared to its highest level in more than a decade in May, Land Registry figures showed on Friday, although the monthly increase was down on April's figure. The price of a home in the capital was up by 18.5% year-on-year, the biggest jump on the measure since March 2003 and far in excess of the 6.7% annual growth recorded across England and Wales. The average cost of a home in greater London stood at £439,719, more than two-and-a-half times the national average. However, the monthly figures suggest the pace of house price growth in England and Wales has started to slow. The Land Registry said prices were up by 0.4% over the month, a fall from April's figure of 1.5%, while in London the monthly changed dropped back from 4.2% to 2.5%. Many parts of the country recorded small drops, although in Ceredigion in Wales prices leaped by 5.9%. Any signs of a slowdown would come as a relief to would-be homebuyers and to policymakers who have been taking a wait-and-see approach to the market. On Thursday, the Bank of England's Financial Policy Committee resisted calls from some quarters to take immediate action to clamp down on mortgage lending, instead opting for measures that will come into force later in the year and will not result in any big changes for borrowers. The latest Land Registry figures, which do not include prices paid for new build properties, showed across England and Wales prices were up by 6.7% year-on-year in May, the same annual rate of inflation as that recorded in April. The average price of a home reached £172,035, still below the £181,572 peak recorded in November 2007. The Land Registry's figures are based on completed sales which are registered with the agency so reflect purchases agreed some months ago. Estate agents have been reporting that the London market is coming off the boil, as fears over interest rate rises, affordability constraints and an increased reluctance by buyers to pay high prices take hold. A separate report by the property firm Hometrack, which was based on a survey of estate agents and surveyors, found prices were up by 0.5% in London in June, broadly in line with the rest of the year. However there was a drop in the number of new buyers registered in the capital. "The Land Registry repeat sales index suggests that house price inflation may be levelling off in response to the sizeable drop in mortgage approvals seen since January. But it is too soon to be confident that these developments will last," said Ed Stansfield, property economist at Capital Economics. "Yesterday's rather limited action by the Financial Policy Committee, which appeared to give tacit approval to at least another year or so of very rapid house price gains, will do nothing to dampen expectations. Nor will yesterday's measures do much to stop prices in the rest of the country following London's lead." Brian Murphy, head of lending at brokers the Mortgage Advice Bureau, said: "The latest Land Registry data again shows London house prices far ahead of the curve, with no other region across England and Wales even approaching double-digit growth. "The fact that exactly half have recorded a monthly fall in the average house price shows that property values remain safely under control across much of the country." Borrowers in London are set to be hit first by the FPC's decision to limit lending at high income multiples, Murphy said "unless, of course, they are among the cash buyers, foreign owners and buy-to-let landlords who do not rely on mortgage finance but are still a major influence on rising prices". FREE AppDownload
Corcoran Group Real EstateA Hamptons home that's belonged to the same family for more than 30 years has just gone on the market, according to The Wall Street Journal. Dating back to 1904, this Water Mill mansion currently belongs to the Nash family. The late Jack Nash was the co-founder of the hedge fund and private-equity firm Odyssey Partners. Nash passed in 2008, and his wife, Helen, has put the house on the market with Corcoran and Harald Grant of Sotheby’s International Realty. The home sits on Mecox Bay and includes amazing panoramic water views, gardens, and even a livable water tower. FREE AppDownload
There have been so many milestones during the Great American Shale Boom that some occasionally fall through the cracks. Like this one from Morgan Stanley's Adam Longson: refineries in the Midwest have basically stopped using oil imported from the Middle East. Of the 2 million barrels a day processed by the so-called PADD 2 district, 98.3% now come from Canada, and the rest basically from Saudi Arabia, according to the EIA.  A decade ago, it was 69% Canadian, 13% Saudi, and the rest from other OPEC nations. Here's the chart: Morgan Stanley And here's the map showing the different PADD districts: EIA Longson says that the Gulf Coast district is still somewhat reliant on Saudi crude, though even here the figures are down. Remarkable developments.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike SegarGoPro is surging again today. Shares of the wearable camera company were up more than 20% in mid-morning trade, a move that follows yesterday's 30% advance. On Wednesday night, shares of GoPro priced at $24 in their initial public offering, valuing the company at about $3 billion. Yesterday, shares of GoPro closed above $31, and at midday Friday, the stock was trading at about $38 bringing its market cap to more than $4.6 billion. According to its prospectus filed with the SEC, GoPro earned $0.47 per share in 2013, making the company's price to earnings ratio, or roughly how much investors have to pay for each $1 of earnings, about 81 at its current share price. BI's Julie Bort noted yesterday that with GoPro's debut yesterday, founder Nicholas Woodman's entire family became millionaires. As we noted when the company filed for its IPO in April, GoPro is profitable, and revenues have grown steadily since 2012. After a strong debut, it seems investors still want a piece of the company on day two. Google Finance FREE AppDownload
Jim Edwards / BIBusiness Insider recently opened a new office in London. It's located near the Old Street station on the London Underground, within the city's so-called "Silicon Roundabout" district. The building is run by Techspace, a company that rents office space to various tech and media startups. We're on the top floor, in a converted loft. Here is what it looks like on the inside.
ANNGood call. In a new interview with the Wall Street Journal, Mt. Gox CEO Mark Karpelès says that what was once the world's largest Bitcoin exchange should probably have hired more security, revealing that there were physical break-ins at the firm's Tokyo office.  Those would be in addition to the online hack that drained the company of hundreds of thousands of Bitcoin. "If anyone wants to start a Bitcoin exchange, I would say, 'Be sure to have 24-hour security guards,'" Karpelès says. Security of digital currency holdings remains a major stumbling block toward Bitcoin adoption — over $600 million-worth of Bitcoins have been stolen over the cryptocurrency's lifetime, and there continue to be seemingly monthly reports of hacks and thefts of other alternative digital currencies. While many of these are the result of the assets being held in "hot" or online, and thus hackable, wallets, Karpelès admissions shows that the safety of cold wallets cannot be guaranteed.      Karpelès also tells the Journal he is concerned by a proposal from Sunlot Holdings, a firm run by Bitcoin investor and former child actors Brock Pierce, about using customer funds to restart the exchange. "Remaining customer money should not be touched," he said. We wrote about that plan earlier this year.  Click here to read the full interview » FREE AppDownload
Everyone knows they should ask questions at the end of a job interview, but what do you ask? We found some answers. Produced By Matt Johnston.Follow BI Video on Facebook  
Chris Hondros / Getty ImagesHow would you feel if your employer wanted to insure your life — with the company as sole beneficiary? What if this has already been done, without your knowledge or consent? Such practices are not only legal, they're commonplace, despite attempts in recent years to curb the more flagrant abuses of what's formally known as corporate-owned life insurance, or COLI, and informally as "dead peasant" insurance. "Typically, the range of emotions I almost always see when people learn about this is disbelief to extreme anger," says Mike Myers, an attorney with the McClanahan Myers Espey law firm in Houston, who has tried 18 COLI class-action lawsuits that resulted in settlements. "They usually don't take the attitude of, 'What's the harm?'" What exactly is the harm? "It creates a moral hazard," says J. Robert Hunter, director of insurance for the Consumer Federation of America. "The employer might think, 'Hmm, I'm starting to lose money; maybe I should knock off a few insured employees.' "Obviously, Wal-Mart wouldn't do that," he adds. "But not everybody is Wal-Mart." In 2011, police in Ohio arrested the owner of an oil-change business and charged him with trying to hire a hit man to kill a former employee to collect on a $250,000 COLI policy, according to The Columbus Dispatch. While such cases are rare, it's little wonder that the insurance earned the pejorative "dead peasant" nickname. Over the years, hundreds of companies are believed to have been named as beneficiaries in the deaths of current or former employees. Myers' firm lists more than 200, including many familiar brand names. The Wall Street Journal has reported that even major life insurance companies have held dead peasant policies on hundreds of their workers. How did dead peasant insurance come about? Banks and large companies originally used corporate-owned life insurance as a tax-advantaged way to fund employee pension programs and hedge against their financial loss in the untimely death of a top executive, a practice known as "key man" insurance. When corporations began pumping up those key-person policies beyond reason, then borrowing against them to enjoy huge interest write-offs, the IRS cracked down in 1986 by capping the amount of deductible interest at $50,000 per policy. "That's where it got out of control," says Myers. "Because then the insurance entrepreneurs said, 'Well, if the limit is now $50,000, instead of having two or three large policies, let's have 10,000 or 20,000 smaller ones and cover the whole company." In the Pension Protection Act of 2006, Congress further restricted dead peasant programs by adopting best practices for new corporate-owned life insurance policies. These require companies to: While companies can ignore the best practices, Hunter says they'll likely forfeit some of the COLI tax advantages, including tax-free death benefits, if they do. "I think it's still going on," he says. "I would have opted for tougher criteria." Myers says dead peasant policies violate one of the tenets of insurance: the concept that a life insurance policyholder or beneficiary should have an "insurable interest" in the insured. Simply put, individuals or companies have an insurable interest in you if they benefit financially from your living and would suffer from your death. "Throughout history, until relatively recently, insurable interest has been defined as close blood relatives, key employees and debtors up to the amount of debt, and that's it," he says. Hunter agrees that dead peasant policies fail the insurable interest test. "If a very low-level worker dies, there is usually someone to replace them and it doesn't really impact the entire corporate structure," he says. "It puts no financial strain on the organization." But Peter Kochenburger, an insurance law professor at the University of Connecticut School of Law, says even that tenet has been open to interpretation. "Insurable interest has been forever modified by state law," he says. "Some states have allowed that an employer has an insurable interest in any employee, regardless of whether they're a key man or not." Kochenburger says some employees may have no objection to being an insured commodity. "The average guy may think, 'So what? My employer is probably doing it because it's a cheaper way to fund employee benefits, so I sort of benefit from that,'" he says. But Myers says that's a faulty assumption at best. "Companies claim they're not the beneficiaries, it's the employee pension fund," Myers says. "But I've never seen a company have a dedicated account for the receipt of these policy benefits that is held exclusively for the benefit plan." He adds that the benefit funds are typically in the soup of the company's general treasury. "Once that happens, how do you distinguish between what you got from dead employees from what you got from selling inventory or tax refunds or whatever?" he asks. What's his solution to potential dead peasant insurance excesses? "Strip away the tax advantage on policies insuring the lives of anyone on whom there is no insurable interest," Myers says. "If we can go back to traditional insurable interests -- key man, close relatives and debtors to the amount of debt -- I think we'd be fine." FREE AppDownload
Via FlickrThe final reading for the University of Michigan consumer confidence survey came in at 82.5. Expectations were for a reading of 82.0. The preliminary reading, reported two weeks ago, came in at 81.2,  below expectations for an 83.0 reading. Following the report Gennadiy Goldberg, U.S. Strategist at TD Securities, said, "The final June Michigan consumer confidence report outperformed market expectations, revised to 82.5 from a preliminary 81.2 reading. This leaves Michigan confidence higher on the month, with the 82.5 June print showing some progress in consumer sentiment compared with the 81.9 reading in May… Overall, we believe that the improvement shown by both the Michigan and Conference Board confidence surveys suggests a gradual improvement in consumer moods, boding well for spending activity in the coming months — a factor which should help a rebound in growth following the weather-induced weakness in Q1." FREE AppDownload
YouTube/Terence KawajaInvestment banker Terence Kawaja is a big-time player in the advertising technology field. His advisory firm, LUMA Partners, has worked to help companies like Google and Yahoo make multimillion-dollar acquisitions, and his industry knowledge makes him one of the tech world's most respected minds. He is also, it seems, something of a goof. Exhibit A: This four-minute music video Kawaja wrote and produced from the Cannes Lions advertising festival, a weeklong event where technology and advertising folks get together to give out awards, get drunk on yachts, and make deals with the Mediterranean Sea in the background. The video is set to the Pharrell song "Happy," and includes lyrics about the boozy festivities like "Out with your client on the Carlton deck. Your tab's expensed, so pick up the check." Here's Kawaja in his best Pharrell hat:YouTube/Terence Kawaja And because it's Cannes, the video features fancy lunches:YouTube/Terence Kawaja Incredible views:YouTube/Terence Kawaja And guys jumping off yachts:YouTube/Terence Kawaja Notable cameos include Undertone cofounder Eric Franchi, legendary angel investor Ron Conway, and Pinterest head of partnerships Joanne Bradford.  Here are the full lyrics: It might seem crazy what I'm about to sayCannes Lions is here, we can take a break There's so much more than just the Palais With the yachts, the parties and non-stop rose In Cannes we're happyClap along if you justified being here for your workIn Cannes we're happyClap along if you feel you deserve this annual perkIn Cannes we're happyClap along if you wouldn't miss this industry feteIn Cannes we're happyClap along if you enjoy serendipity on the Croisette Out with your client on the Carlton deckYour tab's expensed so pick up the checkWell I should probably warn you about the Gutter bar Packing in before dawn is the unwritten lawSing along In Cannes we're happyClap along if you make it through the day without a nap In Cannes we're happyClap along if you made the VIP list at Hotel du CapIn Cannes we're happyClap along if you cruised the Med on a big yacht with swank In Cannes we're happyClap along if you heli'd to lunch at Club 55 It's pronounced "Cannes"... not "Connes"It's pronounced "Cannes"... bien faire les chosesIt's pronounced "Cannes"... not "Connes"It's pronounced "Cannes"... I said I'll tell you about It's pronounced "Cannes"... not "Connes"It's pronounced "Cannes"... Mon Dieu, qu'est-ce que c'estIt's pronounced "Cannes"... not "Connes"It's pronounced "Cannes"... I said In Cannes we're happyClap along if you wish all events took place in Cote D'Azur In Cannes we're happyClap along if you won big business even with a slur In Cannes we're happyClap along if you feel your liver went through a testIn Cannes we're happyClap along if you know you could've used a little more rest In Cannes we're happyClap along if you feel like singing along with this spoofIn Cannes we're happyClap along if you don't mind putting up with this goofIn Cannes we're happyClap along if you feel these lyrics are kind of roughIn Cannes we're happyClap along if you feel this song's gone on enough FREE AppDownload
AP Photo Sergey PonomarevA siberian oil fieldNew York's top state court on Thursday reinstated Canadian oil company Norex Petroleum Ltd's $1 billion lawsuit claiming that two billionaires used armed soldiers and corrupted Russian court proceedings to gain control of a Siberian oilfield. In a unanimous decision that reversed two lower courts, the Court of Appeals in Albany rejected claims by the billionaires, Leonard Blavatnik and Victor Vekselberg, and companies they control that the lawsuit against them was time-barred. In 2011, Norex claimed that Blavatnik and Vekselberg, who live in New York, orchestrated a takeover of Russian oil company ZAO Yugraneft, in which Norex held a 60 percent stake, and an oilfield in Siberia it controlled worth hundreds of millions of dollars. Norex said Yugraneft's offices in 2001 were overrun by militia members wielding AK-47 assault rifles. It also claimed the billionaires bribed officials in order to win a Russian court ruling that diluted Norex's stake in the company. On Thursday, the Court of Appeals rejected the billionaires' claim that Norex was forum-shopping because it had lost court proceedings in Russia and a 2002 suit in New York federal court, which was dismissed on procedural grounds. The court said a state law that extends the statute of limitations for lawsuits that are initially dismissed for procedural reasons applied to Norex. Since the prior federal lawsuit was timely, the court said, the subsequent claims made in state court were not time-barred. Barry Ostrager, who represents Norex, said the company was "pleased to have its day in court." Blavatnik said in a statement that the claims in the lawsuit were "preposterous" and that he would raise other potential grounds for dismissing the case. A representative for White &amp; Case, the firm that represents Blavatnik and the other defendants, declined to comment. The case is Norex Petroleum Ltd v. Leonard Blavatnik, New York State Court of Appeals, No. 121. (Reporting by Daniel Wiessner; Editing by Ted Botha) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jorge Dan LopezStock futures are lower about an hour ahead of the market open in New York. Dow futures are down 26 points, S&amp;P 500 futures are down 4 points, and Nasdaq futures are down 4 points. The only economic data point expected today is the University of Michigan Consumer Confidence report for June, set to be released at 9:55 am ET. DuPont shares are down about 3% after the company last night cut its earnings outlook citing the weather and soybeans. Nike shares are up about 2% after the company last night reported earnings that were better than expected.  In Europe, stocks are little changed, with London's FTSE up 0.1%, the CAC in Paris unchanged, and Germany's DAX up 0.1%.  FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Jonas BYouTube has revealed plans for several new features, including the ability for channel owners to make money by soliciting donations from their fans. YouTube Fan Funding will be tested soon with a limited number of channels in the US, Mexico, Japan and Australia, with YouTubers in those countries able to apply for a space on the test scheme. "Fans will be able to contribute money to support your channel at any time, for any reason," explained a blog post by YouTube execs Matthew Glotzbach and Oliver Heckmann following its announcement at the VidCon conference in Anaheim. The new feature will make YouTube a rival for crowdfunding services including Kickstarter and Indiegogo, although its tip-jar structure makes it more of a direct competitor to Patreon, the US startup that recently raised $15m to help YouTubers and other artists raise money from fans. The company has also launched an Android app for YouTubers called YouTube Creator Studio, which they can use to access their statistics, respond to comments and get notifications on how their channels are performing. YouTube says it will also launch for iOS in the near future. YouTube's burgeoning community of gamers are the focus for another new feature: support for videos at up to 60 frames per second. "Your video game footage with crazy high frame rates will soon look as awesome on YouTube as it does when you’re playing, when we launch support for 48 and even 60 frames per second in the coming months," explained the blog post. The 100 most popular games channels on YouTube generated nearly 3.5bn video views in May alone, according to recent research from Tubefilter and OpenSlate, so this new feature will be widely welcomed. YouTube is also planning to tap its community of more than 1bn viewers to provide translated subtitles for videos. "In the coming months, your fans will be able to submit translations in any language based on the subtitles or captions you’ve created, helping you reach even more viewers," explained Glotzbach and Heckmann. Channels Barely Political, Fine Art-Tips, Got Talent Global and Unicoos are already testing the new user-generated subtitling. It matches a feature that has been available in some time in south-east Asian online video service Viki. Other new YouTube features include more songs and now also sound effects in its licensed Audio Library for creators; plans to help them link to one another from within the descriptions on their videos; better annotations – or "Info Cards" – that will work across desktop, smartphones and tablets - and more ways for YouTubers to build playlists. This follows announcements earlier in the month of a YouTube-branded music show on US satellite radio service SiriusXM, a larger video player on the YouTube website, and beefed-up messaging and commenting features on the service. YouTube is also working on a subscription streaming music service to rival Spotify and Deezer, although the company has attracted strong criticism from independent labels over the way it's seeking to sign licensing deals for it. • From YouTube to Vice: 10 trends changing how we watch TV This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsThe Four HorsemenIan Bremmer, NYU professor and head of the geopolitical consulting powerhouse Eurasia Group, consults at the highest levels with both governments and companies because he brings to the table robust geopolitical analysis and a compelling thesis: that we are witnessing “the creative destruction of the old geopolitical order.” We live, as his last book told us, in a “G-0” world. In today’s Outside the Box, Ian spells out what that creative destruction means in terms of events on the ground today. As Ian notes, the most prominent feature of the international landscape this year has been the expansion of geopolitical conflict. That expansion is gaining momentum, he says, creating larger-scale crises and sharpening market volatility. Hold on to the reins now as Ian take us for a ride with the “Four Horsemen of the Geopolitical Apocalypse.” (For more information about the Eurasia Group or to contact Ian Bremmer, please email Kim Tran at tran@eurasiagroup.net.) We’ll follow up Ian’s piece with an excellent short analysis of the Iraq situation from a Middle East expert at a large hedge fund I correspond with. Pretty straightforward take on the situation with regard to ISIS. This quagmire has real implications for the world oil supply. (It appears that the Sunni rebel forces are now in complete control of the key Baiji Refinery, which produces a third of Iraq’s output.) Back in Dallas, it’s a little hard to focus on geopolitical events when seemingly all the news is about ongoing domestic crises. But the outrageous IRS loss of emails doesn’t really affect our portfolios all that much. What happens in Iraq or with China does. There’s just not the emotional impact. One domestic humanitarian crisis that is brewing just south of me is the massive influx of very young children across the US-Mexican border. When this was first brought to my attention a few weeks ago, I must admit that I questioned the credibility of the source. We have had young children walking across the Texas border for decades but always in rather small numbers. The first source I read said that 40,000 had already come over this year. I just found that to be non-credible, but then with a little reasonable research it not only became believable but could be a bit low – it looks as many as 90,000 children will cross the border this year. What in the name of the Wide Wide World of Sports is going on? First of all, how do you cover up something of this magnitude until it is a true crisis? When the administration and other authorities clearly knew about it last year? (The evidence is irrefutable. They knew.) I am the father of five adopted children. In an earlier phase of my life, I was somewhat involved with Child Protective Services here in Texas. It was an emotionally difficult and heartrending experience. (One of my children came out of that system and three from outside of the United States). I have no idea how you care for 90,000 children who don’t speak the language and have no connection to their new locale. Forget the dollar cost, which could run into the tens of billions over time. These are children, and they are on our doorstep and our watch. You simply can’t ignore them and say, “They are not supposed to be here, so it’s not our responsibility.” They are children. Someone, and that means here in the US, is going to have to figure out how to take care of them, even if it is only to learn why they try to come and figure out where to send them back to. And frankly, trying to to send them back is going to be a logistical and legal nightmare, not to mention psychologically traumatic to the children. Maybe someone thought that waiting until there was a crisis to let this information slip out (and we found out about it because of photos posted anonymously of children packed together in holding cells) would create momentum for immigration reform. And they may be right. But I’m not certain it’s going to result in the type of immigration reform they were hoping to get. I have to admit that I’ve been rather tolerant of illegal immigrants over the course of my life. There are a dozen or so key issues that I think this country should focus on, but I’ve just never gotten that worked up about illegal immigration. The simple fact is that everyone here in the US is either an immigrant or descended from immigrants. It may be, too, that I’ve hired a few undocumented workers here and there in my life. As an economist, I know that we should be trying to figure out how to get more capable immigrants here, not less. What you want are educated young people who are motivated to create and work, not children as young as four or five years old who are going to need housing, education, adult supervision, healthcare, and most of all a loving environment where they can grow up. It is one thing for undocumented workers to come across the border looking for jobs or for families to come across together. It is a completely different matter when tens of thousands of preteen children come across the border without parents or supervision. They didn’t get across 1500 miles of desert without significant support and a great deal of planning. This couldn’t be happening without the awareness of authorities in Mexico and the Central American countries from which these children come, and if this is truly a surprise to Homeland Security, then there is a significant failure somewhere in the system. And if it was not a surprise? That begs a whole different series of questions. This is a major humanitarian crisis, and it is not in the Middle East or Africa. It is on our border, and we need to figure out what to do about it NOW! I don’t care whether you think we need to build a 20-foot-high wall across the southern border of the United States or give amnesty to anyone who wants to come in (or both), something has to be done with these children. It is a staggering problem of enormous logistical proportions, and we have a simple human responsibility to take care of those who cannot take care of themselves. And on that note I will go ahead and hit the send button, and let’s focus on the critical geopolitical events happening around the globe. Iraq is a disaster. Ukraine is a crisis. What’s happening in the China Sea is troubling. It just seems to come at you from everywhere. Even on a beautiful summer day. Your stunned by the magnitude of it all at analyst, John Mauldin, Editor Outside the Boxsubscribers@mauldineconomics.com   Stay Ahead of the Latest Tech News and Investing Trends... Click here to sign up for Patrick Cox’s free daily tech news digest. Each day, you get the three tech news stories with the biggest potential impact. dear john, we're halfway through 2014, and the single most notable feature of the international landscape has been the expansion of geopolitical conflict. why should we care? what's the impact; what does it mean for the global economy? how should we think about geopolitics? my thoughts on the topic, looking at the four key geopolitical pieces "in play"–in eurasia, the middle east, asia, and the transatlantic. i've written for several years about the root causes of the geopolitical instability the world is presently experiencing. a new, g-zero world where the united states is less interested in providing global leadership and nobody else is willing or able to step into that role. that primary leadership vacuum is set against a context of competing foreign policy priorities from increasingly powerful emerging markets (with very different political and economic systems) and a germany-led europe; challenges to the international system from a revisionist russia in decline; and difficulties in coordination from a proliferation of relevant state and non-state actors even when interests are aligned. all of this has stirred tensions in the aftermath of the financial crisis: instability across the middle east after a stillborn arab spring; a three-year syrian civil war; a failed russia "reset"; rising conflict between china and japan; fraying american alliances with countries like brazil, germany, and saudi arabia. and yet geopolitical concerns haven't particularly changed our views on global markets. each conflict has been small and self-contained (or the spillover wasn't perceived to matter much). geopolitics has been troubling on the margins but not worth more than a fret. that's about to change. though perceived as discrete events, the rise of these geopolitical tensions are all directly linked to the creative destruction of the old geopolitical order. it's a process that's gaining momentum, creating in turn larger-scale crises and broader market volatility. we've now reached the point where near- to mid-term outcomes of several geopolitical conflicts could become major drivers of the global economy. that's true of russia/ukraine, iraq, the east and south china seas and us/europe. in each, the status quo is unsustainable (though for very different reasons). and so, as it were, the four horsemen of the geopolitical apocalypse. the prospect of losing ukraine was the last straw for a russian government that has been steadily losing geopolitical influence since the collapse of the soviet union over two decades ago. moscow sees nato enlargement, expanded european economic integration, energy diversification and the energy revolution as direct security threats that need to be countered. ukraine is also an opportunity for the kremlin...for president putin to invigorate a flagging support base at home. putin intends to raise the economic and military pressure on kiev until, at a minimum, southeast ukraine is effectively under russian control. the ukrainian government's latest effort in response, a unilateral week-long cease fire in the southeast, was greeted with lukewarm rhetoric by putin and rejected by russian separatists in the region, who escalated their attacks against the ukrainian military. meanwhile, thousands of russian troops recently pulled back from the ukrainian border have now been redeployed there, bolstered by putin ordering 65,000 russian troops on combat alert in the region. the choices for kiev are thankless. if they press further, violence intensifies and russian support expands, either routing the ukrainian military, or taking serious losses and requiring direct "formal" intervention of russian troops. if they back off, they lose the southeast, which is critical for their internal legitimacy from the ukrainian population at large. all the while the ukrainian economy teeters with much of their industrial base off line, compounded by russian disruptions on customs, trade, and gas supply. the growing conflict will lead to further deterioration of russia's relationship with the united states and europe: gas flow disruptions, expansion of defense spending and nato coordination with poland and the baltic states, turbulence around moldova and georgia given their european association agreements this week...and "level 3" sectoral sanctions against russia. that in turn means a serious economic downturn in russia itself...and knock-on economic implications for europe, which has far greater exposure to russia than the united states does. for the last several years, the major market concern for europe was economic: the potential for collapse of the eurozone. that's no longer a worry. the primary risk to europe is now clearly geopolitical, that expanded russia/ukraine conflict hurts europe, in worst case pushing the continent back into recession. like so much of the world's colonial legacy, many of the middle east's borders only "worked" because of the combination of secular authoritarian rule and international military and economic support. that was certainly true of iraq–most recently under decades of control by the baath party, beginning in 1963. saddam hussein's ouster forty years later by the united states and great britain, combined with the dismantling of nearly all of the military and political architecture that supported him (in dramatic contrast to, say, the ouster of egypt's hosni mubarak) undermined iraq's territorial integrity. since then, iraqi governance could still nominally function given significant american military presence and military and economic aid. once that was removed, there was little left to keep iraq functioning as a country. sectarianism is the primary form of allegiance in iraq today, both limiting the reach of prime minister nouri al maliki's majority shia government and creating closer ties between iraq's sunni, shia and kurdish populations and their brethren outside iraq's borders. extremism within iraq has also grown dramatically as a consequence, particularly among the now disenfranchised sunni population--made worse by their heavy losses in the war against bashar assad across the largely undefended border with syria. the tipping point came with the broad attacks by the islamic state of iraq and syria (isis) over the past fortnight, speeding up a decade-long expansion of sectarian violence and ethnic cleansing between iraq's sunni and shia. the comparatively wealthy and politically stable kurds have done their best to steer clear of the troubles, seizing a long-sought opportunity for de facto independence. the american response has been cautious. domestic support for military engagement in iraq diminished greatly as the war in iraq continued and the economic and human costs mounted. obama repeatedly promised an end to the occupation and considered full withdrawal a major achievement of his administration. there's little domestic upside for taking responsibility in the crisis. obama's position has accordingly been that any direct military involvement requires a change in governance from the iraqis--initially sounding like a unity government and increasingly evolving into the replacement of prime minister maliki. the pressure on maliki has gained momentum with shia grand ayatollah ali al-sistani calling on the iraqi prime minister to broaden the government to include more kurds and sunnis. but maliki, having successfully fought constitutional crises and assassination attempts, to say nothing of decisively winning a democratic election, is unlikely to go. isis poses a threat to the unity of the iraqi state, but not to maliki's rule of iraq's majority shia population, which if anything now stands stronger than it did before the fighting. and maliki's key international sponsor, iran, has little interest in forcing maliki into compromise as long as there's no threat to baghdad: they see themselves in far better strategic standing with a maliki-led iraqi government where they exert overwhelming influence, than over a broader government where they're one of many competing international forces. further, even if maliki were prepared to truly share power with iraq's kurds and sunni (something made more likely by the informal "influence" of 300 us military advisors now arriving in baghdad), he's unlikely to see much enthusiasm responding to that offer. the kurds are better off sticking to nominal (and a clearer road to eventual formal) independence; and sunni leaders that publicly find common cause with maliki would better hope all their family members aren't anywhere isis can find them. absent american (or anyone else's) significant military engagement, the iraqi government is unlikely to be able to remove isis from leadership and, accordingly, reassert control over the sunni and kurdish areas of the country. that will lead to a significant increase in extremist violence emanating from the islamic world, a trend that's already deteriorated significantly in recent years (and since obama administration officials announced that cyberattacks were the biggest national security threat to the united states--a claim president obama overturned during his west point speech last month). since 2010, the number of known jihadist fighters has more than doubled; attacks by al qaeda affiliates have tripled. the combination of challenging economic conditions, sectarian leadership, and the communications revolution empowering individuals through narrowing political and ideological demographic lenses all make this much more likely to expand. that's a greater threat to stability in the poorer middle eastern markets, but also will morph back into a growing terrorist threat against western assets in the region and more broadly. that creates, in turn, demand for increased security spending and bigger concerns about fat tail terrorism in the developed world, particularly in southern and western europe (where large numbers of unintegrated and unemployed islamic populations will pose more of a direct threat). the broader risk is that sunni/shia conflict metastasizes into a single broader war. isis declares an islamic state across sunni iraq and syria, becoming ground zero for terrorist funding and recruitment from across the region. the saudi government condemns the absence of international engagement in either conflict and directly opposes an increasingly heavy and public iranian hand in iraqi and syrian rule. the united states completes a comprehensive nuclear deal with iran and declares victory (but doesn't work meaningfully with teheran on iraq), steering clear of the growing divide between the middle east's two major powers. the gulf cooperation council starts to fragment as members see opportunity in economic engagements with iran. iranian "advisors" in iraq morph into armed forces; saudi arabia publicly opposes isis, but saudi money and weapons get into their hands and an abundance of informal links pop up. militarization grows between an emboldened iran and a more isolated, defensive saudi arabia. that's when the geopolitical premium around energy prices becomes serious. ukraine and iraq are the two major active geopolitical conflicts. but there are two more geopolitical points of tension involving major economies that are becoming significant. in asia, it's the consequences of (and reactions to) an increasingly powerful and assertive china. the growth of china's influence remains the world's most important geopolitical story by a long margin. but, at least to date, china's growth is mostly an opportunity for the rest of the world. for the middle east, it's the principal new source of energy demand as the united states becomes more energy independent. for africa, it's the best opportunity to build out long-needed infrastructure across the continent. for europe and even the united states, it's a critical source of credit propping up currency, and a core producer of inexpensive goods. that's not to argue that there aren't significant caveats in each of these stories (or that those caveats aren't growing--they are), but rather that overall, china has been primarily perceived as an opportunity rather than a threat for all of these actors, and so it remains today. for asia, a rising china has been seen more clearly as a double-edged sword. the greater comparative importance of the chinese economy has translated into more political influence (formal and informal) for beijing, at the expense of other governments in the region. meanwhile, china's dramatic military buildup has fundamentally changed the balance of power in asia; it's had negligible interest elsewhere. china's military assertiveness has also grown in its backyard. in other regions, china continues to promote itself as a poor country that needs to focus on its own development and stability. in east and southeast asia china has core interests that it defends, and it is increasingly willing to challenge the status quo as its influence becomes asymmetrically greater. that's been most clear with vietnam, where china first sent one oil rig to drill in contested waters directly off vietnam's shore--accompanied by several hundred chinese fishing vessels. they announced last week that they are repositioning four more. unsurprisingly, the vietnamese response has been sharp--anti-chinese demonstrations, violence, increased naval presence in the region, and coordination with the philippines. none of that creates significant political risk on its own: vietnam isn't an ally of the united states and so engenders less support and response from washington than the philippines or japan...which is precisely why beijing has decided that's the best place to start changing the regional security balance. but tokyo feels differently. the japanese government understands that a rising china is longer term a much more existential threat to its own security position in asia, and it isn't prepared to wait to raise concern until its position weakens further. so prime minister shinzo abe has declared his security support for vietnam. for america's part, obama has jettisoned the official "pivot" to asia. but the administration continues to believe that america's core national security interests, now and in the future, are in asia; and if china significantly escalates tensions in the east and south china seas, the united states is not likely to sit as idly by as they have on syria or ukraine. the good news here is that--unlike with the countries driving the tensions in eurasia and the middle east--china has solid political stability and isn't looking for international trouble. but the realities of chinese growth, coupled with strong leadership from japan and (over time) india, along with the persistence of a strong american footprint are contributing to a much more troublesome geopolitical environment in the region. the principle danger to the markets is what happens if the chinese government no longer holds that perspective. president xi jinping's commitment to transformational economic reform has been strong over the first year of his rule, and he has gotten surprisingly little pushback from the country's entrenched elites. but the uncertainty around china's near- to medium-term trajectory is radically greater than that of any of the world's other major economies. should significant instability emerge in china, very plausible indeed, china's willingness to take on a far more assertive (and risk-acceptant) security strategy in the region, promoting nationalism in the way putin has built his support base of late, would become far more likely. and then, the east and south china seas move to the top of our list. finally, the transatlantic relationship. advanced industrial economies with consolidated institutions and political stability, there's none of the geopolitical conflict presently visible in the middle east, eurasia, or asia. geopolitical tensions have long been absent from the transatlantic relationship, the great success of the nato alliance. for all the occasional disagreement in europe on us military and security policy both during the cold war and since (the war in iraq, israel/palestine, counterterrorism and the like), european states never considered the need for broader security ties as a counterbalance for nato membership. but the changing nature of geopolitics is creating a rift between the united states and europe. american global hegemony had security and economic components, and it was collective security that had been the core element holding together the transatlantic alliance. that's no longer the case--a consequence of changing priorities for the americans and europeans, and an evolving world order (russia/ukraine a major blip, but notwithstanding). the transatlantic relationship is much less closely aligned on economics. it's not the conventional wisdom. most observers say that, after bush, american policy looks more european these days--less militarist, more multilateralist. but actually, us foreign policy isn't becoming more like europe, it's becoming more like china. it's less focused on the military, except on issues of core security concern (in which case the united states acts with little need to consult allies), while american economic policy tends to be unilateralist in supporting preferred american geopolitical outcomes--which is seen most directly in us sanctions behavior (over $15bn in fines now levied against more than 20 international banks--mostly european) and nsa surveillance policy (with no willingness of the us to cooperate in a germany requested "no spying" mutual agreement) transatlantic economic dissonance is also in evidence in a number of more fundamental ways: america's "growth uber alles" approach to a downturn in the economy, compared to germany's fixation on fiscal accountability. europe's greater alignment between governments and corporations on industrial policy, as opposed to a more decentralized, private-sector led (and occasionally captured) american policy environment. a more economy-driven opportunistic european approach to china, russia and other developing markets; the us government looking focused more on us-led/"universalist" principles on industrial espionage, intellectual property, etc. as the g-zero persists, we will see the united states looking to enforce more unilateral economic standards that the europeans resent and resist; while the europeans look to other countries more strategically as counterbalances to american economic hegemony (the german-china relationship is critical in this regard, but that's also true of europe's willingness to support american economic policies in russia and the middle east). all of this means a much less cooperative trans-atlantic relationship--less "universalism" (from the american perspective) and less "multilateralism" (from the european perspective). more zero-sumness in the transatlantic relationship is a big change in the geopolitical environment; a precursor to true multipolarity, but in the interim a more fragmented and much less efficient global marketplace. * * * so that's where i see geopolitics emerging as a key factor for the global markets--much more than at any time since the end of the cold war. there's some good news and bad news here. the good news is none of these geopolitical risks are likely to have the sort of market implications that the macro economic risks did after the financial crisis. there are lots of reasons for that. a low interest rate environment and solid growth from the us and china--plus the eurozone out of recession--along with pent up demand for investment is leading to significant optimism that won't be easily cowed by geopolitics. the supply/demand energy story is largely bearish, so near-term geopolitical risks from the middle east won't create sustained high prices. and markets don't know how to price geopolitical risk well; they're not covered as clearly analytically, so investors don't pay as much attention (until/unless they have to).   the bad news...that very lack of pressure from the markets means political leaders won't feel as much need to address these crises even as they expand, particularly in the united states. this is another reason the world's geopolitical crises will persist beyond a level that a similar economic crisis would hit before serious measures start to be taken to mitigate them. these geopolitical factors are going to grow. now's the time to start paying attention to them. * * * every once in a while, it's good to take a step back and look at the big picture. hope you found that worthwhile. i'll surely get back in the weeds next monday. meanwhile, it's looking like a decidedly lovely week in new york. very best, ian   From intel sources: The ISIS advance toward Baghdad may be temporarily held off as the government rallies its remaining security forces and Shia militias organize for the upcoming Battle for Baghdad. There is a rather clear reason why the ISIS leader has renamed himself Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, meaning the Caliph of Baghdad . ISIS will at a minimum be able to take control of some Sunni neighborhoods in Baghdad shortly and wreak havoc on the city with IEDs, ambushes, single suicide attacks, and suicide assaults that target civilians, the government, security forces, senior members of government, and foreign installations and embassies. Additionally, the brutal sectarian slaughter of Sunni and Shia alike that punctuated the violence in Baghdad from 2005 to 2007 is likely to return as Shia militias and ISIS fighters begin to assert control of neighborhoods and roam the streets. Even if Iraqi forces are able to keep ISIS from fully taking Baghdad and areas south, it is unlikely the beleaguered military and police forces will be able to retake the areas under ISIS control in the north and west without significant external support, as well as the support of the Kurds. ISIS and its allies are in a position today that closely resembles the position prior to the US surge back in early 2007. More than 130,000 US troops, partnered with the Sunni Awakening formations and Iraqi security forces numbering in the hundreds of thousands, were required to clear Anbar, Salahaddin, Diyala, Ninewa, Baghdad, and the "triangle of death." The concurrent operations took more than a year, and were supported by the US Air Force, US Army aviation brigades, and US special operations raids that targeted the jihadists’ command and control, training camps, and bases, as well as its IED and suicide bomb factories. Today, the Iraqis have no US forces on the ground to support them, US air power is absent, the Awakening is scattered and disjointed, and the Iraqi military has been humiliated badly while surrendering or retreating in disarray during the lightning fast jihadists' campaign from Mosul to the outskirts of Baghdad. This campaign, by the way, has been remarkably and significantly faster than the U.S. armored campaign advance to Baghdad in 2003 . The US government has indicated that it will not deploy US soldiers in Iraq, either on the ground or at airbases to conduct air operations.  Meanwhile, significant amounts of US made advanced armaments, vehicles, ammunition, and diverse military equipment have fallen into ISIS jihadists’ hands . ISIS is advancing boldly in the looming security vacuum left by the collapse of the Iraqi security forces and the West's refusal to recommit forces to stabilize Iraq. This has rendered the country vulnerable to further incursions by al Qaeda-linked jihadists as well as intervention by interested neighbors such as Iran. Overt Iranian intervention in Iraq would likely lead any Sunnis still loyal to the government to side with ISIS and its allies, and would ensure that Iraq would slide even closer to a full-blown civil war and de facto partition, and risk a wider war throughout the Middle East. Like Outside the Box?Sign up today and get each new issue delivered free to your inbox. It's your opportunity to get the news John Mauldin thinks matters most to your finances. Important Disclosures This article originally appeared at Outside The Box.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
WikiBob Dylan's Harmonica is on sale. Joan Baez may have some items in there, too.For the first time in over a decade, esteemed auction house Sotheby's held a "Rock &amp; Roll" themed sale, offering more than 100 historically significant items. The auction, which took place this past Tuesday in New York, included Bob Dylan's original handwritten notes for "Like A Rolling Stone," John Lennon's piano, Elvis Presley's iconic peacock jumpsuit, and guitars from Eric Clapton, the Rolling Stone's Ronnie Wood, and Kurt Cobain, many of which fetched hundreds of thousands of dollars. Out of the 139 items on auction, 96 sold for more than $4 million in sales. We headed to Sotheby's New York headquarters to get a special inside look at the auction, seeing everything from preparations last week to the exhibition this past weekend to the actual auction on Tuesday. 
REUTERS/Brad Penner-USA TODAY SportsAndrew Wiggins (Kansas) walks off the stage after being selected as the number one overall pick to the Cleveland Cavaliers in the 2014 NBA Draft at the Barclays Center. Good morning! Here's what you need to know: French Bank Mega-Settlement Coming. "BNP Paribas is set to plead guilty to criminal charges and pay an $8.9 billion penalty to state and federal authorities, according to people briefed on the case," report DealBook's Ben Protess and Jessica Silver-Greenberg. "The move would be the culmination of a widespread investigation into the French bank for transferring billions of dollars on behalf of Sudan and other countries blacklisted by the United States. The plea deal, which authorities hope to announce on Monday, will include a statement of facts that outlines how France’s largest bank hid the names of Sudanese clients when processing transactions through its American operations, according to the people briefed on the case who spoke on condition of anonymity." Barclays Is Losing Business. The British banking giant is feeling the aftermath of the NY Attorney General's lawsuit against it and its dark pool. "Investors and brokers cut ties with the stock-trading venue run by Barclays  PLC, disconnecting from one of Wall Street's biggest so-called dark pools as the firm battles allegations of fraud and misleading its customers," report the WSJ's Bradley Hope and Scott Patterson. "Broker-dealers, including Credit Suisse Group AG, Deutsche Bank AG, Royal Bank of Canada, Sanford C. Bernstein &amp; Co. and Investment Technology Group Inc. removed connections to the dark pool, called Barclays LX, from their routing systems on Thursday, according to people familiar with the decisions." Japanese Households Slammed By Abe Tax Hike. Japan's household spending plunged by 8.0% in May as a new consumption tax hike went into effect. This was much worse than the 2.3% decline expected by economists. Meanwhile, Japan's unemployment rate declined to a 16-year low of 3.5%. France Is Miserable. GDP was unchanged or 0.0% year-over-year in Q1. "In one line: Miserable first quarter in France," said Pantheon Macroeconomics' Claus Vistesen. "The only real positive aspect in the report is that household income is growing steadily, but this is mainly driven by lower taxes which cannot provide lasting support to income growth." Eurozone Sentiment Is Deteriorating. The Eurozone's economic confidence index unexpectedly fell to 102.0 in June from 102.7 in May. Economists were expecting an increase to 103.0. "The drop in the June sentiment reading from the European Commission was notable relative to the consensus, but it was not completely unexpected if we factor in the poor survey releases this week from France and Germany," said Vistesen. "All the sub-components of the EC survey weakened in June with especially business climate and industrial confidence weakening noticeably, but the services sector remained a bright spot, though, increasing above the consensus forecast." Chemical Giant Disappoints. DuPont cut its outlook for earnings on Thursday afternoon. "The revised outlook in Agriculture reflects lower than expected corn seed sales and higher than expected seed inventory write-downs," said management. "Given favorable soybean economics, soybean sales volumes in North America are higher than expected. However, the higher soybean volume will not fully offset the decline in corn volume, especially given the transition under way in the company's soybean lineup to newer, higher performing products. The company believes this is a short-term negative trend, and there will be strong demand for its next generation soybean products. The revised outlook also reflects lower than expected crop protection herbicide sales, largely due to weather." Management expects to earn $4.00 to $4.10 per share, which is below analysts' expectation for $4.30 per share. Nike Did It. Nike reported quarterly revenue of $7.43 billion and earnings of $0.78 per share, beating analysts' expectations for $7.34 billion and $0.75, respectively. Worldwide orders were up 12%, which was a bit higher than the 11.7% expected. Global Football, or soccer, jumped 21% in fiscal 2014 to $2.3 billion as fans stocked up ahead of the World Cup. Markets Are In The Red. U.S. futures are negative with Dow futures down 25 points and S&amp;P 500 futures down 4.2 points. Europe is mixed, with Britain's FTSE 100 up 0.1%, France's CAC 40 flat, Germany's DAX flat, and Spain's IBEX down 0.1%. American Sentiment. The final June University of Michigan confidence report will be published at 9:55 a.m. ET. Economists estimate this measure of sentiment improved to 82.0 in June from 81.2 in May. This "would reflect equity markets, which have moved higher and experienced a modest reduction in volatility relative to May, as well as gasoline prices, which have largely moved sideways after increasing through the first quarter," said Barclays economists. "A rise in consumer confidence would also be in line with recent steadily improving labor market indicators such as initial jobless claims." No, Those Mt.Gox Bitcoins Aren't Coming Back. The WSJ's Takashi Mochizuki and Eleanor Warnock have an interview with Mark Karpelis, CEO of the Tokyo-based exchange that lost around 850,000 bitcoins to hackers. "Mr. Karpelès said in addition to hacking attacks taking advantage of a system weakness called transaction malleability, there were physical break-ins at the company's offices and that at least one former employee pilfered electronic data," they reported. Here's Karpelès: "If anyone wants to start a bitcoin exchange, I would say, 'Be sure to have 24-hour security guards.'" FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Julien MuguetBNP Paribas Chief Executive Jean-Laurent BonnafeUS authorities are set to announce Monday a deal in which the French bank BNP Paribas pleads guilty to helping some countries to avoid US sanctions and agrees to pay an $8.9 billion fine, the New York Times reported Friday. Such a guilty plea by a major financial institution, in this case France's biggest bank by market capitalization, is rare, the Times said. At the request of US authorities, BNP has severed ties with a dozen employees, including two senior executives. But no one at the bank has been charged, the newspaper said, quoting people briefed on the case. The deal with federal and New York state authorities had not been signed as of Thursday but barring a last minute obstacle US authorities hope to announce it at a press conference on Monday, the Times said. The case concerns charges that BNP Paribas breached US sanctions against Iran, Sudan and Cuba between 2002 and 2009 by handling $30 billion worth of transactions with them. The admission of guilt could have meant the bank would lose its license to operate in the United States. Instead, the New York state financial regulator, Benjamin Lawsky, has taken aim at the bank's ability to engage in dollar clearing -- processing payments in dollar denominations. This key to dealing with international clients, the paper said. Some units within the bank's headquarters in Paris, and in its offices in Geneva and Singapore, will be barred from clearing dollar transactions for at least six months, the Times said. The bank's oil and gas unit is among those that face the suspension. It was involved in many of the illegal transactions in this case. While most of the illicit transactions took place from 2002 to 2009, some stretched into 2012 while the US government had already launched its investigation, the Times said. The French government has raised the matter several times at the highest level of US authorities, including with President Barack Obama. France argued that a fine reported possibly to exceed $10 billion would be so disproportionate as to endanger negotiations between the European Union and United States over a free-trade agreement. They also argued that such a big fine would so weaken the bank as to cause a risk knock-on effects through the banking system, although some analysts were skeptical about this. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
While Janet Yellen is just ignoring "noisy" inflation and dismissing low volatility as indicative of any complacency, Goldman is a little more concerned. The decline in economic and asset market volatility this year from already low levels in 2013 has been striking, which as Markus Brunnermeier states, means "the whole system is more prone to a financial crisis when measured volatility is low, which tends to lead to a build-up of risk in the background – the so-called 'volatility paradox'." Zero Hedge, Goldman Sachs "In general, extremely low risk premiums right now are somewhat concerning... If there is a smooth adjustment towards more normal levels of risk premium, I believe the financial system can handle it. But if risk premiums suddenly move back to high levels... the question is how the financial system will react.” Allison Nathan: Does low market volatility breed complacency and excessive risk taking? Markus Brunnermeier: Yes. I have coined this dynamic the "volatility paradox." When measured market volatility is low, people feel empowered to take on more leverage and more liquidity mismatch, which leaves the whole system more prone to sharp movements. This dynamic occurred during the “Great Moderation.” During that period, fundamental and asset volatility was generally low and market participants took on much more leverage. Source: Goldman Sachs FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Lefteris PitarakisIn this Friday, June 20, 2014 photo, people walk around a shopping mall in west London. LONDON (AP) — Before the fast, let there be a shopping feast. From Harrods in Knightsbridge to the glittering diamond stores in Mayfair, London has long attracted big spenders. But every year around the holy month of Ramadan, which starts this weekend, a wave of spectacularly rich Middle Eastern shoppers arrives and takes retail therapy to a whole new level — complete with an entourage of bodyguards, chauffeurs, and Gulf-registered Rolls-Royces and Ferraris flown in just for the occasion. Retailers call the boost in business the Ramadan Rush: A hugely lucrative and fast-growing market driven by wealthy Arabs who travel to Britain to escape the desert heat and indulge in buying luxury gifts before flying home for a month of fasting and increased religious observance. Another surge takes place during the Eid holiday, which marks the end of Ramadan. The spike in shoppers during the summer months has been so regular and noticeable on London's streets that some have jokingly dubbed the phenomenon the "Harrods Hajj," after the traditional Islamic pilgrimage to the holy city of Mecca. "London is the place in Europe where the Middle Eastern visitor shops the most. It is almost their second home," said Gordon Clark, U.K. manager at Global Blue, the Switzerland-based retail research firm. The company estimates that pre-Ramadan sales last July jumped 60 percent compared with the previous year. Although tourists from the oil-rich United Arab Emirates, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia and Qatar make up only a small percentage of total visits to Britain compared with those from the U.S. and Europe, they tend to be much more lavish spenders on average. Official figures show that Middle Eastern tourists ranked just 19th in terms of numbers of people last year, but came second in total spend — 888 million pounds ($1.5 billion). The Kuwaitis are the biggest spenders, shelling out some 1,340 pounds ($2,275) per transaction last July, Clark said. That corresponds with data from the London Luxury Quarter, a group that represents some of the highest-end businesses in central London. It said the average spend from Middle Eastern shoppers last year came just behind the Chinese, its top customers.Unsurprisingly, the best sellers are exclusive designer handbags and shoes, watches and jewelry, though a Harrods spokeswoman said food gifts like luxury fruit baskets and extravagantly packaged dates and cocoa-dusted almonds also sell briskly. Ramadan falls on the ninth month of the Islamic lunar calendar. Muslims around the world fast from dawn to sunset for a month, starting from Saturday. The weeks surrounding the month offer retailers an opportunity they can't afford to miss, and many brands have responded to the trend by rolling out VIP services just for the period. "We have been working with luxury retailers who offer exclusive products during pre-Ramadan," said Myf Ryan, marketing director at west London's Westfield shopping center. "Dior has limited-edition exotic skin handbags, and Louis Vuitton and Burberry are offering private client services." The Westfield mall — one of Europe's largest — hopes to bring in record sales with the help of extra Arabic-speaking concierges and personal chauffeurs. For the really prolific shoppers, there is a "hands-free" service, which involves helpers who collect the shopping bags and help pack them in the car. Other cosmopolitan cities, such as Paris or Dubai, also see their share of pre-Ramadan shopping. But analysts say London has become the favorite destination. Language is one reason — most of the shoppers can speak English. But that's just part of it. "London has got the cultural aspects, the history, and it's a wonderfully inclusive city to visit," Ryan said. "The temperature's comfortable. And because the Middle Eastern customer is so important, hotels and the tourism industry are also very adept at making them comfortable." All that may leave the average British or American shopper feeling a bit left out. But the Ramadan Rush does bring one direct benefit to the masses: Earlier sales. Many of Britain's department stores and fashion brands have been adjusting their summer sales schedule to make sure the high rollers get to shop new stock when they arrive. "They're not interested in sales, because the stores are too busy," Clark said. "It's not a good shopping experience for them." ___ Follow Sylvia Hui at www.Twitter.com/sylviahui Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
Note from dshort: This commentary has been revised to include the Real Personal Income ex Transfer Payments for May. Official recession calls are the responsibility of the NBER Business Cycle Dating Committee, which is understandably vague about the specific indicators on which they base their decisions. This committee statement is about as close as they get to identifying their method. There is, however, a general belief that there are four big indicators that the committee weighs heavily in their cycle identification process. They are The Latest Indicator Data  June nominal Personal Income rose 0.4% month-over-month, in line with most forecasts. When we subtract Transfer Payments, which accounts for 17.3% of PI, and adjust for inflation using the BEA's Personal Consumption Expenditure Price Index, the MoM growth was a smaller 0.17%, and this indicator is up only 1.67% YoY. This is the only one of the Big Four that has yet to reach an all-time high, now 1.5% off that mark. The chart and table below illustrate the performance of the Big Four with an overlay of a simple average of the four since the end of the Great Recession. The data points show the cumulative percent change from a zero starting point for June 2009. We now have the fourth indicator update for the 59th month following the recession. The Big Four Average (gray line below).  Current Assessment and Outlook The overall picture of the US economy had been one of a ploddingly slow recovery from the Great Recession, and the Winter data documented a sharp contraction. The early Spring appeared to support the general view that severe winter weather was responsible for the contraction -- that it was not the beginnings of a business cycle decline. The May Industrial Production strengthened the optimistic view. Real Retail Sales for May were less encouraging. May Personal Income data was pretty much as expected.  Yesterday's downward revision of Q1 GDP to -2.9% was completely ignored by the market, with major indexes rising on average volume. GDP, after all, is a backward-looking indicator. The consensus among economists is that Q2 will show a substantial rebound and that 2014 will ultimately have real GDP growth in the 3% to 3.5% range. For a snapshot of that optimism, here is a look at the WSJ's June survey of economists on the subject of Q2 GDP.    The next update of the Big Four will be the first indicator for June: Nonfarm Employment. Background Analysis: The Big Four Indicators and Recessions The charts above don't show us the individual behavior of the Big Four leading up to the 2007 recession. To achieve that goal, I've plotted the same data using a "percent off high" technique. In other words, I show successive new highs as zero and the cumulative percent declines of months that aren't new highs. The advantage of this approach is that it helps us visualize declines more clearly and to compare the depth of declines for each indicator and across time (e.g., the short 2001 recession versus the Great Recession). Here is my own four-pack showing the indicators with this technique.  Now let's examine the behavior of these indicators across time. The first chart below graphs the period from 2000 to the present, thereby showing us the behavior of the four indicators before and after the two most recent recessions. Rather than having four separate charts, I've created an overlay to help us evaluate the relative behavior of the indicators at the cycle peaks and troughs. (See my note below on recession boundaries).  Click for a larger image The chart above is an excellent starting point for evaluating the relevance of the four indicators in the context of two very different recessions. In both cases, the bounce in Industrial Production matches the NBER trough while Employment and Personal Incomes lagged in their respective reversals. As for the start of these two 21st century recessions, the indicator declines are less uniform in their behavior. We can see, however, that Employment and Personal Income were laggards in the declines. Now let's look at the 1972-1985 period, which included three recessions -- the savage 16-month Oil Embargo recession of 1973-1975 and the double dip of 1980 and 1981-1982 (6-months and 16-months, respectively).  Click for a larger image And finally, for sharp-eyed readers who can don't mind squinting at a lot of data, here's a cluttered chart from 1959 to the present. That is the earliest date for which all four indicators are available. The main lesson of this chart is the diverse patterns and volatility across time for these indicators. For example, retail sales and industrial production are far more volatile than employment and income.  Click for a larger image History tells us the brief periods of contraction are not uncommon, as we can see in this big picture since 1959, the same chart as the one above, but showing the average of the four rather than the individual indicators.  Click for a larger image The chart clearly illustrates the savagery of the last recession. It was much deeper than the closest contender in this timeframe, the 1973-1975 Oil Embargo recession. While we've yet to set new highs, the trend has collectively been upward, although we have that strange anomaly caused by the late 2012 tax-planning strategy that impacted the Personal Income. Here is a close-up of the average since 2000.  Click for a larger image   Appendix: Chart Gallery with Notes Each of the four major indicators discussed in this article are illustrated below in three different data manipulations: Industrial Production The US Industrial Production Index (INDPRO) is the oldest of the four indicators, stretching back to 1919, although I've dropped the earlier decades and started in 1950.  Click for a larger image  Click for a larger image  Click for a larger image Real Personal Income Less Transfer Payments This data series is computed as by taking Personal Income (PI) less Personal Current Transfer Receipts (PCTR) and deflated using the Personal Consumption Expenditure Price Index (PCEPI). I've chained the data to the latest price index value. The "Tax Planning Strategies" annotation refers to shifting income into the current year to avoid a real or expected tax increase.  Click for a larger image  Click for a larger image  Click for a larger image Transfer Payments largely consist of retirement and disability insurance benefits, medical benefits, income maintenance benefits (more here). The chart below shows the Transfer Payment portion of Personal Income. I've included recessions to help illustrate the impact of the business cycle on this metric.  Total Nonfarm Employees There are many ways to plot employment. The one referenced by the Federal Reserve researchers as one of the NBER indicators is Total Nonfarm Employees (PAYEMS).  Click for a larger image  Click for a larger image  Click for a larger image Real Retail Sales This indicator is a splicing of the discontinued retail sales series (RETAIL, discontinued in April 2001) with the Retail and Food Services Sales (RSAFS) and deflated by the seasonally adjusted Consumer Price Index (CPIAUCSL). I used a splice point of January 1995 because that date was mentioned in the FRED notes. My experiments with other splice techniques (e.g., 1992, 2001 or using an average of the overlapping years) didn't make a meaningful difference in the behavior of the indicator in proximity to recessions. I've chained the data to the latest CPI value.  Click for a larger image  Click for a larger image  Click for a larger image Note: I represent recessions as the peak month through the month preceding the trough to highlight the recessions in the charts above. For example, the NBER dates the last cycle peak as December 2007, the trough as June 2009 and the duration as 18 months. The "Peak through the Period preceding the Trough" series is the one FRED uses in its monthly charts, as explained in the FRED FAQs illustrated in this Industrial Production chart. FREE AppDownload
Japan's household spending fell sharply in May as the consumption tax hike took its toll. While some decline was expected, the 8% year-on-year drop puts the BOJ's optimistic economic forecast in doubt. As inflation cools with the diminishing impact of weaker yen (discussed here), the central bank is likely to accelerate asset purchases later this year. Investing.com / Sober Look FREE AppDownload
Geopolitics is arguably the leading risk to the global economy and financial markets. Market strategist Ed Yardeni recently characterized Iraq as a "clear and present threat to the bull market." Here's a map from Deutsche Bank's House View presentation highlighting the major, potentially destabilizing risks around the world. Deutsche Bank
ShutterstockEuropean stocks are slightly up early Friday. Britain's FTSE 100 is up 0.35%. France's CAC 40 is up 0.37%. Germany's DAX is up 0.22%. Spain's IBEX is up 0.03%. This comes as UK Q1 GDP growth was revised down to 3.0%, below the predicted 3.1%. Asian markets are in the red on Friday with Japan's Nikkei down 1.39%. Hong Kong's Hang Seng is up 0.10%. US futures are down a bit. FREE AppDownload
 REUTERS/Yuya Shino A man using a mobile phone walks down a corridor of a building at a business district in Tokyo. TOKYO (Reuters) - Japan's unemployment rate hit a 16-year low in May, suggesting the economy will rebound in the third quarter from a sales tax hike and consequent slump in consumer spending. The jobless rate in the world's third-largest economy fell to 3.5 percent, the lowest since 1997 and a level the Bank of Japan says is near full employment. At the same time, the availability of jobs rose to its highest level since 1992, good news for Prime Minister Shinzo Abe as he tries to cement a recovery after two decades of stagnation. The strong employment numbers were published alongside other data on Friday showing Japan's household spending fell 8 percent in the year to May, four times the drop projected in a median market forecast and more than the 4.6 percent decline in April. The tumble was due mainly to a pull-back in spending on housing, cars and household appliances - all of which saw a surge in demand before the sales tax hike on April 1. "An (economic) contraction in the second quarter is a certainty, but the job market improvements are positive for the economy," said Yoshiki Shinke, chief economist at Dai-ichi Life Research Institute. The data is unlikely to change dominant market expectations that the BOJ will hold off on further monetary stimulus probably for the rest of this year, analysts say. "The decline in household spending is too large to ignore, but if you exclude auto sales there are signs that spending is bottoming out," said Hiroshi Miyazaki, senior economist at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities. Households spent more on items such as television sets, personal computers and clothing in May. Spending on eating out also stopped falling. Separate data showed core consumer inflation eased slightly in May when excluding the effect of the tax hike, in line with the BOJ's projections that price gains will slow in coming months before accelerating again late this year. The BOJ has signaled that it sees no immediate need to expand its massive stimulus program deployed in April last year, stressing that the cooling effect on consumption from the sales tax hike will be temporary. The central bank has also said Japan is on track to meet its the 2 percent inflation target sometime next year, although it projects consumer inflation to hover just above 1 percent for several months as the boost from a weak yen fades. The BOJ estimates that the sales tax rise to 8 percent from 5 percent would add 1.7 percentage points to Japan's annual consumer inflation in April and 2.0 points from May onwards. "As the BOJ projects, consumer inflation will probably slow in coming months but won't slip below 1 percent," Dai-ichi Life Research's Shinke said. "I don't see any reason for the BOJ to ease further for the rest of this year." NO EASING EYED Analysts expect the economy to contract in the second quarter due to the tax hike, with a Reuters poll conducted in June projecting a 1.2 percent quarterly drop. The contraction could be more severe given the weak spending data, although the strong job market and an expected increase in summer bonus payments will underpin spending. "It may take a little longer for spending to recover, but there's no need to turn pessimistic on the economy," said Miyazaki of Mitsubishi UFJ. The nationwide core consumer price index (CPI), which includes oil products but excludes the volatile prices of fresh food, rose 3.4 percent in the year to May, data showed on Friday, matching the median market forecast. That was the fastest since April 1982 as the tax hike pushed up prices across the board. Excluding the sales tax hike, core consumer inflation stood at 1.4 percent, a tad slower than the 1.5 percent annual increase in the previous month, mainly due to the fading effects of the weak yen and a rise last year in electricity bills. (Additional reporting by Tetsushi Kajimoto; Editing by Shri Navaratnam and Eric Meijer) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidA Barclay's trader works on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange, July 3, 2012.(Reuters) - Big banks have started pulling their business out of Barclays' &lt;BARC.L&gt; dark pool, after the British bank was sued by New York’s top securities regulator for allegedly misleading institutional investors over its anonymous trading venue, The Financial times reported. Deutsche Bank &lt;DBKGn.DE&gt;, Credit Suisse &lt;CSGN.VX&gt; and Royal Bank of Canada &lt;RY.TO&gt;, asset manager Alliance Bernstein were among the institutions that withdrew from Barclays’ dark pool on Thursday, the paper said. (http://on.ft.com/1liYksA) Barclays said any drop in trading volumes at LX might be due to a technical glitch. Goldman Sachs &lt;GS.N&gt;, Morgan Stanley &lt;MS.N&gt; and JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co &lt;JPM.N&gt;, were not sending orders to Barclays’ dark pool, the daily reported, citing people familiar with the companies. The New York State attorney general's lawsuit alleges that Barclays promised to get the best possible prices for customers looking to buy or sell shares but instead took steps that maximized the bank's profits and executed nearly all of its customers' stock orders on LX instead of on exchanges or other venues that might have offered better prices. Dark pools were created to allow investors to execute big trades without tipping off the market. But ever-larger volumes of trades have been shunted into dark pools and critics say their opacity makes markets less fair for other investors. Deutsche Bank and Credit Suisse declined to comment. Royal Bank of Canada, Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley and JPMorgan Chase could not immediately be reached for comment. (Reporting By Neha Dimri in Bangalore) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersMan is reflected in an electronic stock quotation board outside a brokerage in Tokyo TOKYO (Reuters) - Asian shares were mostly in the red on Friday, weighed down by a weak performance on Wall Street and doubts about the strength of the U.S. economy, which pushed bonds higher. Japan's benchmark Nikkei dipped 0.5 percent and regional markets, with the exception of Wellington, were either down or just about holding steady. The MSCI's dollar-denominated index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan was flat due to slight gains in some regional currencies. A smaller-than-expected increase in May's U.S. consumer spending, in data released on Thursday, added to concerns about the health of the U.S. economy following surprisingly weak first quarter GDP data. The GDP data showed that the U.S. economy contracted at a 2.9 percent annualized pace in the first quarter, the worst performance in five years, which Tohru Yamamoto, chief fixed income strategist at Daiwa Securities, said was "clearly a very weak figure." The weak data is starting to shake investors' conviction the U.S. economy is heading for a modest but robust recovery. U.S. growth this year is seen possibly falling short of 2 percent. "People are assessing where they think their second- and third-quarter, fourth-quarter, GDP estimates are going to be," said Wilmer Stith, co-manager in Baltimore of the Wilmington Broad Market Bond Fund. "Even for those that are optimistic, it's like getting that 'F' in college in that first test; it's harder to raise that average up." On Thursday, the S&amp;P 500 slipped 0.1 percent while the pan-European FTSEurofirst 300 index also fell 0.1 percent, hitting a one-month low. Losses in Western markets were led by financial shares, after New York's attorney general filed a securities fraud lawsuit against Barclays, accusing the British bank of giving an unfair edge in the United States to high-frequency traders. Some traders also blamed the Wall Street weakness on hawkish comments from James Bullard, president of the St. Louis Fed. He said raising interest rates by the end of the first quarter in 2015 would be appropriate, based on a forecast that U.S. growth will register 3 percent for the next four quarters. But his remarks were most likely used as an excuse for profit-taking in stocks, given they did not lead to any selling in U.S. bonds, which tend to be more sensitive to interest rate news, traders said. Indeed, the 10-year U.S. Treasuries yield fell to a three-week low of 2.516 percent on Thursday and in Asia last stood at 2.525 percent. Ten-year German Bund yields fell to a one-year low of 1.238 percent in Europe, where growth is seen even weaker than in the United States. The U.S. dollar index held close to one-month lows hit on Wednesday. It stood at 80.165, less than 0.1 percent above the low of 80.091. A standout currency performer was the Canadian dollar, which rose to a six-month high in U.S. trade against the U.S. dollar after strong inflation data earlier this week raised doubts over how long the Bank of Canada will be able to stick with its neutral monetary policy stance. The Canadian currency traded as high as C$1.0684 on the U.S. dollar on Thursday and last stood at C$1.0693. On Thursday, the yen firmed in line with fall in U.S. bond yields, hitting a one-month high of 101.48 yen against the dollar. It last traded in Asia at 101.53 yen. The euro was steady at $1.3619. (Additional reporting by Michael Connor in New York; Editing by Shri Navaratnam and Neil Fullick) FREE AppDownload
