The global selling continues. Japan is really taking it on the chin, following the selloff in the Europe and the US, and the Fed's continuation of "The Taper." The Nikkei is off 3.4%. Nikkei.com Meanwhile this evening, China has reported a weak PMI number, and the Aussie dollar is sliding. FREE AppDownload
China's PMI for January just came in at 49.5, a number that's weaker than expected. The Aussie dollar — which is sensitive to China — is sliding on the news. FinViz FREE AppDownload
ReutersHSBC China PMI fell to 49.5 in January, from a reading of 50.5 in December. This is the first contraction in six months. The decline in PMI was attributed to weaker expansions in new business and output. New export orders fell for the second straight month. Moreover, firms cut jobs at their fastest pace since March 2009. "Job shedding was generally attributed by panellists to the non-replacement of voluntary leavers as well as reduced output requirement," according to the press release. This is also lower than the flash reading of 49.6. The weaker than expected number was attributed to the Lunar New Year holiday. "A soft start to China's manufacturing sectors in 2014, partly due to weaker new export orders and slower domestic business activities during January," said Hongbin Qu, chief economist China at HSBC, in a press release. "Policy makers should pay attention to downside risks and pre- emptively fine-tune policy to steady the pace of growth if needed." The Aussie dollar tumbled on the news. Chinese economic growth slowed to the lowest level since 1999, in 2013. A further contraction in manufacturing would only add to signs of an economic slowdown in China. Here's a look at the trajectory of PMI: Markit Economics/HSBC     FREE AppDownload
YouTube/austmusAsian markets are having an ugly day, but the Nikkei especially is getting slammed, down 3.3%. This comes after the Fed announced that it would taper its asset purchase program by another $10 billion a month, to $65 billion. This saw the yen strengthen against the greenback. Markets slid further after we saw HSBC China manufacturing PMI contract to 49.5 in January. This was the first contraction in six months and was down from 50.5 in December. The Aussie dollar tumbled on the news. Here's a quick round up of how markets are doing: Australia's S&amp;P/ASX 200 is down 0.9% Hong Kong's Hang Seng is down 1.4%. China's Shanghai Composite is down 0.5%. Japan's Nikkei is down 3.3%, to a new 2.5-month low. The Turkish central bank's massive rate hike on Tuesday gave markets a bounce, but that didn't last long and we saw a sell-off in stocks on Wednesday FREE AppDownload
TOKYO (Reuters) - Shares in Nintendo Co Ltd climbed more than 7 percent to a one-week high of 13,850 yen in early trade on Thursday after the video games maker said it would buy back 125 billion yen ($1.22 billion) of its outstanding shares. "While the market may react positively, we are more cautious," Goldman Sachs said in a note. "The buyback will boost net profits per share by 8.2 percent, but reduce cash and marketable securities per share by 5.8 percent." Goldman Sachs maintained its 'sell' rating on Nintendo. The Kyoto-based company is due to unveil a new management strategy later on Thursday as it comes under pressure from investors to return to profit after warning it would post a third straight year of operating losses. On Wednesday, Nintendo posted lackluster results for its traditionally strongest third quarter after disappointing sales for its flagship Wii U console forced it to slash its annual forecast earlier this month. (Reporting by Dominic Lau; Editing by Chang-Ran Kim) FREE AppDownload

REUTERS/Soe Zeya TunA fisherman prepares his fishing net in MyanmarFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Investment Traps That Even The Smartest People Fall Into (CFA Institute)  Even the smartest investors often fall into investment traps writes Michael Lipper at the CFA Institute. Here are some of the current investment traps he sees. 1. Value - "There are two traps here. The first is that we can mathematically determine the exact true value of something, including securities. The second is not being concerned with the seller’s motivations."2. Successful young investors — "Many of today’s enthusiastic investors have only had the experience of the decline and recovery phases of the last five and ten years. …Enjoy them, perhaps participate, but don’t count on today’s gainers getting you out ahead of time of their collapse; it will be new to them. In other words, it could be a trap." 3. The book value trap — Many look at this as a measure of investment value. "People tend to forget that the book value they were taught in college or graduate school… is a teaching device, not a measure of reality." Tied into this is the tendency to overlook human factors.4. Predictability of the VIX — This is often used as a gauge of fear and current levels show there isn't a "great deal of price pessimism." But a contrarian take would be that "this is exactly when a negative surprise could be its most potent.5. Failure of stock investors to consider bonds — Bond prices tend to be more sensitive to potential bad news than the stock market. "As a stock investor, I am aware that bond prices can be a useful warning device for me… The current preponderance of downgrades in an economy that is meant to be recovering is a cause for one to be cautious about committing new money to the stock market." Advisors Aren't Making Enough Use Of ETFs (Investment News)  Advisors invest a very small part of their clients assets in ETFs, according to a survey by S&amp;P Capital IQ at the ETF Virtual Summit. 50% of respondents said the invested less than 20% of clients' assets in ETFs. 12% said they invested 60% of clients' assets or more, reports Carl O'Donnell at Investment News. This is partly because advisors don't know a lot and only stick to offerings from well established names like Vanguard.  "The survey was not statistically significant, with a sample size of only 150, but Mr. Rosenbluth pointed out that it was taken at the ETF Virtual Summit, which most likely was attended by advisers who were more involved in ETF investing than the average," O'Donnell reports. PIMCO Names Four Deputy CIOs (Bloomberg) PIMCO, the world's largest bond manager, has named four deputy chief investment officers. The four new deputy CIOs are 1. Mark Kiesel, global head of the corporate bond management group; 2. Virginie Maisonneuve, global head of equities; 3. Scott Mather, head of global fund management; 4. Mihir Worah, head of the real return group. This comes after Mohamed El-Erian announced his exit from PIMCO.  "Going forward there will be more focus on strategy and markets rather than policy and these are the people on the front lines of strategy and alpha," Gross told Bloomberg's Alexis Leondis. Today's Bond Market Environment Is Not Like The Bond Bear Market Of 1981 (The Alliance Bernstein Blog)  Investors are often concerned with how they should approach bonds in a rising rate environment. They often think were seeing a situation similar to the runaway inflation we saw in 1981, or 1994 when we saw a rapid rise in federal funds rate.  But in terms of inflation, "questions around inflation mostly relate to the lack of it, rather than runaway levels of it," writes Douglas J. Peebles of Alliance Bernstein. As for the rapid rise in rates, he says that "today, the Fed has taken great care to provide highly transparent communications about catalysts for future rate hikes as well as the likely extent and pace of them—none of which were present in the Fed’s communications leading up to 1994’s initial rate hike." Instead he thinks this is closer to what we saw in 2003-2006, when "rates rose meaningfully, but slowly—and in response to improving growth over time." And this is what investors need to remember as they rebalance their portfolios. Here's What You Need To Know About MyRA, Obama's New Retirement Program (Business Insider) During his State of the Union address, president Obama announced a new retirement savings program called MyRA. "This would be a program of small Roth IRAs with access to a special, safe investment that pays a little better than Treasury bills," Business Insider's Josh Barro explained.  Employees don't have to run or fund the account. And the accounts would be invested in a "security similar to the "G Fund" available to federal employees participating in the Thrift Savings Plan. This fund has all the advantages of short-term Treasury bills (no credit risk or interest rate risk) but pays an interest rate based on the average of outstanding long-term Treasury bond rates." If the account went over $15,000, account holders would have to roll the balance over into a private Roth IRA.  FREE AppDownload
Mike Nudelman/Business Insider A civil war is emerging between Bitcoin's earliest and most libertarian adopters, and a more commercial wing seeking to embrace regulation as a means of legitimizing Bitcoin businesses. The divide came into focus this week with two key events events. One was a hearing on Bitcoin regulation by the New York Department Of Financial Services. The other was the arrest of BitInstant CEO Charlie Shrem on money laundering charges. Until the moment of his arrest, Shrem, 24 had been something of a darling in the Bitcoin venture capital community — the Winklevoss brothers were one of BitInstant's earliest investors, and Shrem was scheduled to co-headline a Bitcoin conference in Miami this past weekend.  But on the first day of hearings about the future of Bitcoin regulation convened this week by the New York Department of Financial Services, a panel of VCs were quick to disavow Shrem as an example of a more immature wing of Bitcoin. The Winklevoss twins said they were gratified the Department was discussing ways to help legitimize Bitcoin commerce. Their Bitcoin ETF is awaiting regulatory approval from the SEC. The division is not just about sheer dollar size. Appearing at the Tuesday hearing, Fred Wilson — whose Union Square Ventures spearheaded a $5 million investment round in Bitcoin wallet firm Coinbase warned against anything but the lightest-touch regulations. He compared the dangers Bitcoin startups would face to what happened to early-stage music streaming platforms, which were inundated with lawsuits from record labels. Should Bitcoin startups be subject to similar legal scrutiny from financial regulators, he said, they would be snuffed out before they even had a chance to bloom. Wilson's views were countered by no other than Fred Ehrsam, Coinbase's co-founder. He told DFS regulators Wednesday, "Although I love Fred Wilson, there's probably some minimal requirements and procedures that should be put in place if you're facilitating that kind of exchange."  Perhaps it is not surprising that this ultra-libertarian faction was not represented at this week's hearings. But it could be seen at the NYC Bitcoin Center on Broad Street in Manhattan — where a follow-up cocktail party was held Tuesday to discuss "fallout" from the first day's hearing — and online, where this faction railed from afar against regulators.   Twitter These individuals may seem extreme, but, until recently, they represented the core of Bitcoin evangelism. But their influence seems to be fading. Barry Silbert's Bitcoin Investment Trust is now worth 10s of millions of dollars. In an email Wednesday, he said he agreed the crypto-anarchists who dominated the digital currencies earliest incarnations were getting left behind. "There are certainly a handful of folks that are hardcore libertarians (some anarchists) that believe that bitcoin should be completely unregulated, but I believe they are in the minority and, as a percentage of bitcoin believers, is shrinking very quickly.  I respect their viewpoint, but unfortunately, don’t see how there vision is viable in today’s society." On Wednesday, New York District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. said the greatest concern about digital currencies among law enforcement was anonymity. In a Bitcoin transaction, all transactions are essentially conducted between e-addresses that lack any kind of user identification. "The difficulty, when criminal activity is involved, is for investigators to identity how the money is moved where and for what purpose.," he said. But tinkering with Bitcoin's anonymity would seem to strike at the heart of another one of Bitcoin's core elements — as seen in the following Tweet: Twitter But Jeremy Allaire, founder and CEO of Circle, a company that develops digital currency products, showed little concern that regulators could start scraping away at Bitcoin's anonymity element. Asked Tuesday on the panel whether new regulations affecting Bitcoin's anonymity would undermine the popularity of the currency, Allaire replied, "That depends on your definition of the essence of Bitcoin." As Bitcoin continues to emerge, this fight over Bitcoin's essence, and how much of a role government should play, will only get more intense. FREE AppDownload
Once again investors underestimated the size of Facebook's business — the company posted a huge beat over expectations on revenues and earnings per share in its Q4 announcement. Shares went up immediately  nearly 10% in after-hours trading. (Facebook closed at $53.53 before the call.) This time, Facebook's billowing mobile ad revenues were the factor. Mobile ad sales rose to 53% of revenues from 49% in the previous quarter. That's Facebook's first ever $1 billion-plus mobile ad revenue quarter. Facebook is basically a mobile company right now — a majority of its revenues come from mobile, not from the desktop product. And the vast majority of its active users are mobile users. It's not the first time Facebook has posted bigger numbers than Wall Street expected. It happens pretty regularly — that's probably a function of the fact that Facebook's ad business remains poorly understood among investors. (And, to be fair, it's quite a complicated business with a variety of revenue bearing products that can be used in dozens of different ways.) Facebook has more than 1 million advertisers in total. Here are the big numbers: That's a huge beat on the top and bottom lines. Here is the overall revenue breakdown: Facebook Here is a breakdown of Facebook's ad revenue, per BII: Business Insider Intelligence Here's the overall user growth: FacebookAnd here's the user growth breakdown, again from BII: Business Insider Intelligence "It was a great end to the year for Facebook," said CEO Mark Zuckerberg. "We're looking forward to our next decade and to helping connect the rest of the world." See the full disclosure here. Refresh this page or click here for updates as we go along. Now we're listening in to the conference call: CEO Mark Zuckerberg: 172 million new monthly actives added in 2013. Facebook is seeing 6 billion likes a day. "Only one third of the world's population has access to the internet today ... helping more people to get connected is important to developing the global knowledge economy." (Note that a recurring theme with Zuckerberg is that to get future growth for Facebook, the entire internet has to grow.) "Standalone mobile apps like Messenger and Instagram are important to Facebook." 70% increase in Messenger usage in last three months. Instagram: ... Zuckerberg doesn't give any new user numbers. Hmm. 500 million people using Facebook groups every month. Ads: He wants to improve quality of ads rather than quantity. Zuck thanks everyone who works at Facebook. "I'm grateful that so many talented people are part of our team." COO Sheryl Sandberg: ... the first time we crossed 50% in mobile ad revenue and first $1 billion-plus mobile quarter. Simplification of ad products has worked. Small/medium businesses are converting from free page users to paid advertisers. Mobile app install ads "small but quickly growing category." This particular type of ad is one of the most important to Facebook management. She declines to talk about the third party mobile ad network in which ads run in other apps powered by Facebook targeting. Custom Audiences: ... no numbers but all good news. 8X ROI on certain types of ads. "Facebook is the only place where 750 million people visit every day." CFO David Ebersman: ... discussion of users ... engagement per user increased in 2013 ... "Instagram doubled its user base in past year." (No numbers given.) (He does NOT mention teens!) Questions from Wall Street analysts: What is Zuck's vision for standalone mobile apps? (This is an important question in terms of Facebook's new business development and acquisition strategy.) Zuck: "In terms of the focus on building new and separate experiences .... [people want different ways to share and communicate different things] ... [we will] build a handful of great new experiences that are separate from what you think of as Facebook today. ... we're going to keep on working on this over the next few years." Messenger has been given "room to breathe and blossom." Zuck: "Standalone experiences" is becoming a theme! He has said that more than once now. Video question: Zuck: ... some vague stuff, no numbers on new video ads. Sandberg: "We recently started testing an autoplay video ad test, it's a very small test." It's all about proving the ROI to clients, client by client. (Sales chief Carolyn Everson gets a shout out!) Ebersman: News Feed ads are performing so well that they continue to drive up the price per ad. Instagram question: Will ad load increase? Answer ... a lot of vague verbiage about user experience. Nothing concrete. Facebook is taking it slow, basically. (Slightly frustrating that no one has yet asked how many monthly active users Instagram now has. Facebook hasn't update its 150 million stat for months.) Algorithm tweak to favor news over cat memes, is it working?: Zuck: "A lot of things like memes scored high in terms of ge ting people to like them but didn't score highly in terms of what people wanted to see." Question: Teens! Ebersman: "In terms of teens we don't have any new data to report today." (FB holders breath huge sigh of relief — last time Ebersman talked about teens he said usage was down and the stock dropped 15% instantly.) Question: How is Graph Search coming? Zuck: It's based on a trillion different pieces of Facebook content. "A trillion pieces of content is more than the index in any search engine." ... "we look at this on a three to five-year period." Mobile ad network test, how is it going? Sandberg: "It's a small test we just started ... so we don't have results yet." "We are very excited about the mobile app space in general." She mentions mobile app download ads — again. (Sandberg has been hammering on these things for months now.) Question: meandering query about "contextual" ads. (This appears to be a question about how Facebook targeting data might be used in off-Facebook venues, i.e. via its Atlas ad server.) Sandberg: "If you look at what's happening with our direct response business, which has been very strong for us, we offer the opportunity to get people before they search. ... to find consumers before they search, so they can then move consumers all the way down the funnel to purchase." (This is a key point for Facebook, and one of the reasons Wall Street so frequently gets Facebook wrong — a huge portion of Facebook advertisers are DR clients, meaning they more sales they make the more ads they buy. They are not traditional budgets that are set once a year. They can increase exponentially with sales. Hence the big revenue beats.) Artificial Intelligence: Zuck: A.I. research unit, will operate over a 5-10 year period, to understand how everything on FB is connected. "what do the posts people write mean?" "The real value will be if we can just understand the meaning of all the content people are sharing." And ... we're out! Here is what analysts were expecting prior to the call: The background to the call: Investors will be especially sensitive to whether CEO Mark Zuckerberg, COO Sheryl Sandberg or CFO David Ebersman mention the word "teens" on the call. Last quarter, Ebersman said Facebook had seen a slight, non-significant decline in teen usage, and it immediately wiped 15% off the value of the stock. We're also looking for news of Facebook's acquisition strategy. Facebook failed to acquire Snapchat and DeepMind recently — so we know it's in the market for new companies but it has problems pulling the trigger at the right price. Other than that, Facebook is entering an era of tough comparables. 2013 was a heck of a year for Facebook, and now it faces big, big numbers to beat, not just in terms of revenues but monthly active user growth and mobile user growth. Growth, in fact, is always the major issue looming behind everything with Facebook — hence the teen angst. Disclosure: The author sold Facebook stock a couple of days before the Q4 financials were disclosed. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Mike BlakeStocks tumbled and the Federal Reserve reduced the pace of monthly bond purchases by another $10 billion, to $65 billion. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
Although the twentieth century had more than its fair share of horrors, it also was an era of incredible development. Modern medicine, sanitation, and agriculture helped billions of people live longer, healthier lives. The Gapminder Foundation is dedicated to using statistics to inform people about the ways in which our world has changed and continues to change. The coolest tool on its website is Gapminder World, which allows anyone to make animated graphs showing how different statistics — ranging from carbon dioxide emissions, to income inequality, to the ratio of boys to girls in school — have changed in different countries over time. We made a graph to show how child mortality and life expectancy have changed around the world since 1950 (animated below; interactive version here). The countries are color-coded by region: red is East Asia and the Pacific, orange is Europe and Central Asia, yellow is the Americas, green is the Middle East and North Africa, light blue is South Asia, and dark blue is Sub-Saharan Africa. Gapminder Foundation/ Business Insider Over the last fifty years, global life expectancy has risen and child mortality rates have dropped, as can be seen by the overall trend of countries moving down (lower child mortality) and to the right (higher life expectancy). In 1950, 59 countries had child mortality rates of more than 200 per 1,000 live births — in those countries, more than one fifth of all children died before the age of five. In 2012, no countries had child mortality rates that high. These two measures are closely related. Child mortality is a huge factor in overall life expectancy — a large number of children dying can cancel out many people living to old age, and bring down the average lifespan. Although the general global trend over the last sixty years has been towards better health, it is possible to see a number of disastrous moments in the image. At the end of the 1950s and beginning of the 1960s, China — the large red circle — sees a brief regression, with life expectancy dropping and child mortality rates going up. This coincides with the Great Leap Forward and the subsequent famine. Similarly, the Cambodian genocide under the Khmer Rouge can be seen as the small red circle swinging up and to the left in the early and mid 1970s. Here's a link to the interactive version of the graph. FREE AppDownload
Facebook (FB) is set to report FQ4 2013 earnings after the market closes on Wednesday, January 29th. Over the past couple of quarters Facebook has blown analyst expectations out of the water, and the stock has gone crazy more than doubling. However, a few recent high profile studies have begun to sound the alarms on the social network and claim that it’s already in decline. A recent paper out of Princeton which studied the growth of Facebook claimed that it ‘spread like an infectious disease’ and said it would also die like a virus, losing 80% of its users by 2017. Another equally doom saying study released in December by researchers at University College London has stated that Facebook is “dead and buried” for teens and that it’s “simply not cool any more”. Regardless of these publications, the fact is that Facebook has grown both its EPS and revenue on a year over year basis in each of the past 8 quarters and as of September 2013, Facebook touts 847 million active monthly users. Here’s what the buy side and students expect from Facebook’s earnings report on Wednesday, and how they differ. The information below is derived from data submitted to the Estimize.com platform by a set of Buy Side and Independent analyst contributors. Estimize(Click Here to see All Estimates for Facebook) Over the previous 6 quarters the EPS and revenue forecasts from Estimize.com have been more accurate than Wall Street 4 and 5 times respectively. By tapping into a wider range of contributors including hedge-fund analysts, asset managers, independent research shops, non professional investors, and students Estimize has created a data set that is up to 69.5% more accurate than Wall Street, but more importantly it does a better job of representing the market’s actual expectations. This quarter there is significant disagreement between students and the buy-side. EstimizeThis quarter the students, represented by green dots on the scatter plot above, have taken a more bearish view of Facebook then the buy side in red. This could mean one of a few things. Students may have made lower estimates based on their experience with a shrinking user base and decreasing engagement. On the other hand, the buy side could simply have higher expectations from Facebook’s capacity to monetize. Over the previous 6 quarters Facebook has met or exceeded Wall Street expectations on both EPS and revenue in each quarter and investors may be taking this information into account.  Estimize   The distribution of estimates published by analysts on the Estimize.com platform range from 25c to 33c EPS and $2.200B to $2.560B in revenues. This quarter we’re seeing a moderate distribution of estimates compared to previous quarters.   The size of the distribution of estimates relative to previous quarters often signals whether or not the market is confident that it has priced in the expected earnings already. A wider distribution of estimates signaling less agreement in the market, which could mean greater volatility post earnings. Estimize This quarter we’ve seen upward analyst revisions from both Wall Street and Estimize. The Wall Street EPS consensus has increased throughout the quarter from 23c to 27c while the Estimize consensus for EPS has inched higher from 28c to 29c. Wall Street has also increased its revenue forecast throughout the quarter from $2.221B to $2.355B while the Estimize community has revised its consensus upward from $2.303B to $2.366B. Timeliness is correlated with accuracy and rising analyst revisions going into a report is often a bullish indicator. Estimize The analyst with the highest estimate confidence rating this quarter is WallStreetBean who projects 29c EPS and $2.402B in revenue. In the Winter 2014 season, WallStreetBean is rated as the 15th best analyst and is ranked 9th overall among over 3,600 contributing analysts. Estimate confidence ratings are calculated through algorithms developed by deep quantitative research which looks at correlations between analyst track records and tendencies as they relate to future accuracy. In this case the analyst with the highest rated estimate is making a bullish call predicting that Facebook will report inline with Estimize on profit but exceed on revenue. This quarter the aggregate consensus from the Estimize community is that Facebook will beat Wall Street expectations on both EPS and revenue. However, the buy-side is more optimistic than the students. Wednesday evening after the dust settles we will know which side was right. Get access to estimates for Facebook published by your Buy Side and Independent analyst peers and follow the rest of earnings season by heading over to Estimize.com. Register for free to create your own estimates and see how you stack up to Wall Street. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yuri Gripas Congressional Democrats know that Republicans have painted themselves in a corner with no exit strategy on the debt ceiling. They know it, they won't budge, and that's why Republicans have no choice but to cave, as Politico reports they are preparing to do. "They may find on this one that the nearest exit may be behind them," House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) told Business Insider. For the past two confrontations over the debt ceiling, the White House and congressional Democrats have held the line — they say they won't negotiate over policy with the "full faith and credit" of the United States at risk. They have been unified in their stance, and it has largely worked in diffusing the threat. Last January, House Republicans attached a "No Budget, No Pay" provision to a debt-limit suspension. In October, when Republicans agreed to reopen the government and suspend the debt ceiling again, there were no strings attached. Democrats believe that, dating back to the first confrontation over the debt ceiling in the summer of 2011, Republicans have forced themselves into a no-win situation. In 2011, they established the principle of getting concessions in exchange for a lift in the debt ceiling. In that case, it was spending cuts.  But that doesn't jibe with the fact that most of the Republican leadership does not want another budget battle. Congress is just more than three months removed from a shutdown that House Speaker John Boehner now publicly admits was a disaster, at least temporarily, for the party. A little more than a month ago, Republicans — and Congress as a whole — reversed some of that bad fortune by agreeing to a budget deal. "That's the risk of painting yourself in a corner with no exit strategy," said Rep. Chris Van Hollen (D-Md.), the ranking member of the House Budget Committee. Those that do want a debt-ceiling confrontation point to polls that more Americans agree with them regarding the debt ceiling than the shutdown. But they forget that as the debt-ceiling deadline gets closer and more news coverage is devoted to its potential catastrophic effect, more people turn against the GOP. "The jury is still out on whether they learned a lesson from shutdown," Van Hollen told Business Insider on Tuesday. It appears they have — at least in the strategical aspect. Republicans will officially hash out their strategy on the debt ceiling at their annual retreat this week in Maryland, but it looks like their strategy to win this debate will come in backing out of a dangerous fight and blaming President Barack Obama. "I don't think we Republicans want to default on our debt," Boehner said during a recent press conference at the Republican National Committee headquarters in Washington. "Secondly, the president has made clear he doesn’t want to negotiate. Thirdly, it's become obvious to me after having tried to work with the President for the last three years that he will not deal with our long-term spending problems unless Republicans agree to raise taxes. And we are not going to raise taxes. And so the options available continue to be narrower in terms of how we address the issue of the debt ceiling, but I'm confident we'll be able to find a way." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Price ChambersGoldman Sachs chief economist Jan Hatzius (L) speaks with Bank of America chief economist Mickey Levy.The Federal Open Market Committee just announced an additional $10 billion tapering of the monthly bond purchases it makes under its quantitative easing program. The reactions are pouring in from Wall Street strategists and economists. Here's what they're saying: JAN HATZIUS, CHIEF ECONOMIST AT GOLDMAN SACHS: Hatzius says the part of the statement where the FOMC says, "Labor market indicators were mixed but on balance showed further improvement," is indicative of a "slight downgrade" to the Committee's assessment of the labor market, given the use of the word "mixed." On the other hand, the assessment of the overall economic picture was positive. (via Bloomberg) STEVEN ENGLANDER, GLOBAL HEAD OF G-10 FX STRATEGY AT CITI: "From the viewpoint of domestic U.S. economic conditions, the statement is completely anodyne. From the point of view of EM, the Fed has just said 'hasta la vista, baby'. The comment on U.S. growth was a not-surprising upgrade in the growth assessment — economic activity 'picked up' rather than 'is expanding at a moderate pace' — but very little else changed other than the expected $10 billion additional tapering. There were no dissents and no changes in the forward guidance language. Since the announcement, MXN and AUD are down about 0.4%, so there is modest disappointment in high-beta currencies. The S&amp;P 500 is down about 10 points, taking down U.S. Treasury yields, which initially spiked but have since dropped. On these asset market conditions, look to JPY, CHF and EUR to do well, and commodity currencies and EM to do poorly." GEORGE GONCALVES, HEAD OF FIXED INCOME STRATEGY AT NOMURA: "We have always viewed tapering as a process and not an event. Therefore, the cycling down in QE likely will continue at a measured pace ($10 billion per meeting) until either something breaks down further in the markets (leading them to pause) or, on the flip side, the economy re-accelerates and the Committee tapers faster as they reach the end of QE. For now, what else can we expect the Fed to do but sit and wait for further signs (i.e., follow-through on current issues in EM/China/U.S. data) like the rest of us in the marketplace? This 'wait and see' mode during a time of uncertainty likely means that risk markets will remain on edge and that rates will be biased to go lower until economic data turns up again. The second taper has a starkly different feel from the first triumphant taper. In December, the Fed tapered into a strong trending market and better economic data, which resulted in equities and rates rising up in the process (as it was seen that the Fed was validating the growth forecasts and valuations in markets). Now, however, we see tapering can happen when it’s a mixed picture; this should lead to stocks, for example, no longer operating based on the old tune that both 'good data' and 'bad data' are good for stocks, because more QE is ahead." DREW MATUS, DEPUTY U.S. CHIEF ECONOMIST AT UBS: "The bland statement was likely the result of a confluence of factors: expected healthy growth in the fourth quarter (due out tomorrow), still-falling unemployment, stable core inflation (as measured by the consumer price index and, perhaps most importantly, the transition to a new Fed Chair. While the statement chose to downplay risks to activity, we would continue to stress that Fed transitions usually provoke some risk aversion." DAVID ADER, HEAD OF GOVERNMENT BOND STRATEGY AT CRT CAPITAL: "There is very little here that we see as new as another let to tapering was expected, and to help justify it there's a bit of an uptick in the economic view as measured by this change to the statement: 'activity picked up in recent quarters' versus 'activity is expanding at a moderate pace'. A nuance, but a bit firmer. Beyond all this there were really no changes. Note some may have thought (very few if any) that there would be a change in the unemployment rate threshold of 6.5% but that wasn't changed. Yields are a tad higher, 0.5 basis points in 10s, after this which rather tells you how much of a yawn it was. Note that there were no dissents so the talk(?) about a more hawkish Fed is not really revealed here unless, of course, this is a vote of confidence and respect for Bernanke's final foray and dissent will rise later for Yellen." MILLAN MULRAINE, DEPUTY HEAD OF U.S. RESEARCH AND STRATEGY AT TD SECURITIES: "The apparent absence of any concern about the recent turmoil in EMs and possible feedback to the U.S. economy was reflected in the unchanged growth and labor market assessment. In particular, the Fed continues to see the risks as 'more nearly balanced', which is a reaffirmation of the view expressed at the December meeting when tapering was launched. In fact, they reinforced their optimistic outlook for growth, noting that they expect 'economic activity will pick up at a moderate pace.' In a glaring departure from the last few years, the policy decision was unanimous among voters — with even Kocherlakota, who argued against tapering last month, voting in favor of a further cut. The bottom line here is simply that the Fed continues to have full confidence in the U.S. economic recovery, and their decision to stick to their tapering agenda suggests that they are looking through the recent weak tone in the data. Given this, we continue to expect the Fed to maintain this tapering pace, with a further $10 billion cut at each meeting in the coming months, ending the program by Q4 this year." IAN SHEPHERDSON, CHIEF ECONOMIST AT PANTHEON MACROECONOMICS: "The statement is a bit more upbeat than in December, suggesting the Fed is (even) more comfortable with its decision to taper. Growth is now said to have 'picked up in recent quarters', compared to 'expanding at a moderate pace' in December, while consumption and investment 'advanced more quickly in recent months', compared to merely 'advanced' in December. And fiscal restraint 'is diminishing', compared to 'may be diminishing'. No specific comment on the December payroll data; labor market indicators are said to be 'mixed but on balance showed further improvement'. We expect a further $10 billion taper in March, barring an EM meltdown." NEIL DUTTA, HEAD OF U.S. ECONOMICS AT RENAISSANCE MACRO RESEARCH: "The FOMC delivered the expected today. They acknowledged the improvement in the economy, cut the monthly bond buying program by $10 billion (spread equally across Treasuries and MBS) to $65 billion per month, and made no immediate changes to the rate guidance. The FOMC was unified in this decision. Hawks like Dallas Fed President Fisher and Philadelphia's Plosser were in agreement with doves like Narayana Kocherlakota of Minneapolis. The most pressing challenge for the FOMC is to beef up their forward guidance language. The Fed could lay out the labor market indicators they are monitoring beyond the unemployment rate or they could adopt an inflation floor, a commitment to keep rates low so long as inflation remains below 1.5 to 2.0%, for example. For now, because inflation remains low and likely to remain so, we think the path of least resistance is to keep the current qualitative forward guidance language in place." CHRIS LOW, CHIEF ECONOMIST AT FTN FINANCIAL: "Stocks are falling after the Fed statement, likely because the market unrest gripping traders the past several days seems to have escaped the Fed's notice. We expect this apparent oversight will be addressed verbally when the post-meeting gag period ends and in writing when the minutes are revealed. Still, in the past three trading days, U.S. equities are down 3%, some emerging market currencies are off double digits and foreign central banks are fighting for their financial lives. The Fact that it doesn't warrant even a passing mention in the Fed statement shows where all this falls on the Fed’s list of priorities." ADRIAN MILLER, DIRECTOR OF FIXED INCOME STRATEGY AT GMP SECURITIES: "With much of the market preoccupied on the emerging market sell off, though not without a fair amount of focus on the Fed's policy decision, Chairman Bernanke and the FOMC committee delivered as expected and further cut asset purchases by $10 billion evenly split between USTs and MBS. In fact, the language of the policy statement was largely the same as December's communique. With the Fed not acknowledging the recent EM turmoil as to not unnecessarily raise the disturbance to too high of a level, the Fed gave a nod to an improving U.S. economy. And with the Fed confirming the weak December NFP report by stating labor market indicators were mixed they were sure to point out 'on balance showed further improvement.' That sentence provided the cover for the additional cut. And now, with Yellen at the helm the Fed is poised to assume a $10 billion cut per meeting process. And any development that risks changing the Fed's pace of tapering will need to satisfy a high hurdle. 2014 will surely be a challenging year for the Fed as it tries to extricate itself from QE while trying to minimize domestic and EM disruptions." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueThe Federal Reserve just announced a taper of another $10 billion. Markets were slow to react to the news. Bonds changed little at first but then ripped, the S&amp;P was down 20 points, but the Dow was down as much as 220 before popping back. This is not far from where they were before the announcement. Gold is down $8 an ounce and the dollar is spiking. Nothing too dramatic, but stocks moved lower. Check out our full breakdown here » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jonathan ErnstOutgoing Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke ascends to central banker heaven. The Federal Open Market Committee's January decision on monetary policy — its final decision under the leadership of outgoing Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke — is out. The FOMC elected to reduce the pace of monthly bond purchases it makes under its quantitative easing program by another $10 billion to $65 billion, as expected by the vast majority of economists on Wall Street. The Committee made no changes to its forward guidance on the likely path of future short-term interest rates, nor did it acknowledge recent strains in emerging markets. Stocks are lower and Treasuries are higher in the wake of the release. "From the viewpoint of domestic U.S. economic conditions, the statement is completely anodyne," says Steven Englander, global head of G-10 FX strategy at Citi. "From the point of view of EM, the Fed has just said 'hasta la vista, baby'." Click here for reactions from Wall Street economists and strategists » Below is the full text of the release. --------------------------------------- Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in December indicates that growth in economic activity picked up in recent quarters. Labor market indicators were mixed but on balance showed further improvement. The unemployment rate declined but remains elevated. Household spending and business fixed investment advanced more quickly in recent months, while the recovery in the housing sector slowed somewhat. Fiscal policy is restraining economic growth, although the extent of restraint is diminishing. Inflation has been running below the Committee's longer-run objective, but longer-term inflation expectations have remained stable. Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum employment and price stability. The Committee expects that, with appropriate policy accommodation, economic activity will expand at a moderate pace and the unemployment rate will gradually decline toward levels the Committee judges consistent with its dual mandate. The Committee sees the risks to the outlook for the economy and the labor market as having become more nearly balanced. The Committee recognizes that inflation persistently below its 2 percent objective could pose risks to economic performance, and it is monitoring inflation developments carefully for evidence that inflation will move back toward its objective over the medium term. Taking into account the extent of federal fiscal retrenchment since the inception of its current asset purchase program, the Committee continues to see the improvement in economic activity and labor market conditions over that period as consistent with growing underlying strength in the broader economy. In light of the cumulative progress toward maximum employment and the improvement in the outlook for labor market conditions, the Committee decided to make a further measured reduction in the pace of its asset purchases. Beginning in February, the Committee will add to its holdings of agency mortgage-backed securities at a pace of $30 billion per month rather than $35 billion per month, and will add to its holdings of longer-term Treasury securities at a pace of $35 billion per month rather than $40 billion per month. The Committee is maintaining its existing policy of reinvesting principal payments from its holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed securities and of rolling over maturing Treasury securities at auction. The Committee's sizable and still-increasing holdings of longer-term securities should maintain downward pressure on longer-term interest rates, support mortgage markets, and help to make broader financial conditions more accommodative, which in turn should promote a stronger economic recovery and help to ensure that inflation, over time, is at the rate most consistent with the Committee's dual mandate. The Committee will closely monitor incoming information on economic and financial developments in coming months and will continue its purchases of Treasury and agency mortgage-backed securities, and employ its other policy tools as appropriate, until the outlook for the labor market has improved substantially in a context of price stability. If incoming information broadly supports the Committee's expectation of ongoing improvement in labor market conditions and inflation moving back toward its longer-run objective, the Committee will likely reduce the pace of asset purchases in further measured steps at future meetings. However, asset purchases are not on a preset course, and the Committee's decisions about their pace will remain contingent on the Committee's outlook for the labor market and inflation as well as its assessment of the likely efficacy and costs of such purchases. To support continued progress toward maximum employment and price stability, the Committee today reaffirmed its view that a highly accommodative stance of monetary policy will remain appropriate for a considerable time after the asset purchase program ends and the economic recovery strengthens. The Committee also reaffirmed its expectation that the current exceptionally low target range for the federal funds rate of 0 to 1/4 percent will be appropriate at least as long as the unemployment rate remains above 6-1/2 percent, inflation between one and two years ahead is projected to be no more than a half percentage point above the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal, and longer-term inflation expectations continue to be well anchored. In determining how long to maintain a highly accommodative stance of monetary policy, the Committee will also consider other information, including additional measures of labor market conditions, indicators of inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and readings on financial developments. The Committee continues to anticipate, based on its assessment of these factors, that it likely will be appropriate to maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate well past the time that the unemployment rate declines below 6-1/2 percent, especially if projected inflation continues to run below the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal. When the Committee decides to begin to remove policy accommodation, it will take a balanced approach consistent with its longer-run goals of maximum employment and inflation of 2 percent. Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were: Ben S. Bernanke, Chairman; William C. Dudley, Vice Chairman; Richard W. Fisher; Narayana Kocherlakota; Sandra Pianalto; Charles I. Plosser; Jerome H. Powell; Jeremy C. Stein; Daniel K. Tarullo; and Janet L. Yellen. FREE AppDownload
Global stock markets and emerging-market currencies have gone from gains to losses in the span of the morning. Efforts by emerging-market central banks to stem the bleeding have already failed, as the moves in currency markets are fading in Turkey and South Africa. The S&amp;P 500 is down 0.8% headed into the release of the Federal Open Market Committee's final monetary policy decision under the leadership of outgoing Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke. The U.S. dollar-Japanese yen exchange rate is also down sharply, indicative of fears over global liquidity. Meanwhile, 10-year U.S. Treasury futures are rallying, currently up 0.3%. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note is 2.71%, down 4 basis points from yesterday's close, and gold futures are up 1.0%, trading at $1,263 an ounce. The charts below show the action in various markets. Across the top from left to right are S&amp;P 500 futures, the dollar-yen exchange rate, and the euro-dollar exchange rate. Across the bottom from left to right are gold futures, 10-year U.S. Treasury futures, and the dollar-lira exchange rate. Last night, the Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey announced massive rate hikes at the conclusion of an emergency meeting to shore up the Turkish lira, which has been plummeting to new all-time lows over the past several trading sessions. The lira surged on the announcement, but has since given up all of its gains and then some. U.S. Treasury and S&amp;P 500 futures have been correlated with the dollar-lira exchange rate since the CBRT announcement. When the lira goes down, it seems that S&amp;P 500 futures are going down and Treasury futures are going up. The lira took a big hit at 8:20 a.m. ET this morning, when the South Africa Reserve Bank unexpectedly announced that it would hike interest rates as well. Since then, it has recovered. "The question is why the response to these moves is so aggressive and so negative," says Steven Englander, global head of G-10 FX strategy at Citi.  "It is possible that investors fear that the EM central banks have fired their last shot, and will be unable to follow through with more tightening, or that their economies/politics are too weak to support rate hikes." Emerging markets have been suffering portfolio outflows since the Federal Reserve floated the idea of winding down its quantitative easing program last summer, and the pain has intensified since it actually began the tapering process in December. As the Fed pumps less dollars into the financial system, EMs are experiencing dollar shortages around the world, causing their currencies to plunge. The big event today is the announcement of the Fed's latest monetary policy decision at 2 p.m. ET. Economists expect the Fed to move forward with another $10 billion reduction in the monthly bond purchases, despite recent weakness in emerging markets. Furthermore, some expect the Fed to modify its forward guidance on the likely future path of short-term interest rates. "What is in play at today’s FOMC is the forward guidance language and reference to EM tensions," says Englander. "With respect to domestic economic conditions and monetary policy, the market is now focused both on whether the first policy hike will be sooner than indicated and whether the subsequent hikes will be quicker. Today there is no particular need to change the language. The FOMC may be mindful of the concentration of market risk on the side of sooner and faster, and away from its baseline. If it changes the language it would probably to emphasize how shallow the upward path of rates will be." Thinkorswim FREE AppDownload
Host Committee, Trigger MediaQuestlove spins at Host Committee's 'Toast to the Host' party at Marquee For over a year, young New Yorkers have been opening their inboxes to find invitations from their friends to intimate ragers at some of the hottest bars and nightclubs in the city, and it's all thanks to one company: Host Committee. Here's how it works: Say you want to plan a party. Say you have no time. Just head to the Host Committee website and tell them what you want, when you want it, and how many people you want to invite. BAM! You are a host. All you have to do is invite your friends (through e-mail or Facebook), and Host Committee will take care of setting up the rest — the venue, the one-hour open bar, the DJ, the coat check, the door people. It will start around 8 p.m., and you can have the space 'til around 11 p.m. And that's it, you're done. Go back to your regularly scheduled spreadsheet jockeying and Seamless Web ordering. This party-in-a-box concept has caught on like wildfire, especially with young Wall Streeters who have networks of friends willing to throw down $30 for an hour of imbibing at some of the most talked-about spots in the city. Host Committee works with 69 of them. And if you're a host, you get to enjoy your own private table with a bottle of champagne in a bucket of ice — on the venue, because you earned it. Trigger MediaHost Committee is the brainchild of Trigger Media CEO Andy Russell, a smiley, 6'5'' entrepreneur with a come-up story made for the movies. You'd watch this — A NYC kid starts throwing parties in prep school, renting out ballet studios and saving hundreds of his peers from having to spend their Saturday nights loitering on the steps of the Metropolitan Museum. He'd find the right kids at schools across the city, and have them invite their friends, who invited their friends — all of that information was then compiled on a master list of ragers. That's how Russell started out, and when he went off to Cornell, he didn't stop. Every third week he'd use his master list (which eventually had 10,000 names on it) to get kids into clubs when they were empty. It's not like the venues were doing anything, and all they had to do was give Russell an hour-long open bar to get 800 warm, thirsty bodies inside. Russell calls that empty venue and that one-hour open bar "remnant perishable inventory." It's his mantra. "With nightclubs, they were in pain because they had all these fixed costs … That’s why nightclubs can be a flash in the pan. It’s just a tough business," he says. The mantra served him from his internship at Goldman Sachs, to his star analyst position at the now defunct Chemical Bank, working leveraged buyout and acquisition deals under JPMorgan rainmaker Jimmy Lee. "I’m actually the guy who built the discounted cash flow valuation model the bank adopted," said Russell, adding later, "I can do a mean spreadsheet, but I can throw a better party." What Russell found, though, was that the two can go hand in hand (if you're willing to completely give up sleep). While at Chemical Bank, he essentially commandeered some restaurants around the city, using their remnant perishable inventory to turn them into hotspots. But that's nothing compared to what he did next. At the ripe age of 26, he raised $1 million from investors and founded the hottest restaurant/club in New York City in the '90s — Moomba. Moomba was the club where Leonardo DiCaprio set up his home base after Titanic. It was the club that "Saturday Night Live" was parodying in skits starring Cameron Diaz. It was the club that three months into its existence made it onto a Sprint billboard in L.A. that said, "One rate service from Spago to Moomba and everywhere in between." Russell did all this while attending Columbia Business School. Now, everything has an end. And Russell eventually sold Moomba in 1999, paid his investors handsomely and set off around the world before joining venture capital firm East River Ventures. There, he started doing digital media deals that had him meeting with Benjamin Netanyahu in Israel and becoming the youngest partner. And then the tech bubble burst. "All my phantom wealth disappeared fairly overnight, and it was probably the best thing that ever happened because I had to step into the role as CFO/COO of these companies and had to downsize a lot of them." It was also great because he realized that he wanted a mentor, and that mentor would be MTV founder and current president and CEO of Clear Channel Communications, Bob Pittman. Here's part of the email Russell sent Pittman, who was traveling through Asia at the time: Bob… you are the greatest operator I’ve ever seen in my entire life, and whatever you’re doing next I want to do it with you, and if you already have plans for what you’re doing next I can ...be in Bangkok in 24 hours. It was the beginning of a beautiful friendship. Russell joined the team that started Pittman's venture capital firm in 2000. With the $350 million they raised, Russell headed the group that incubated digital media companies like Tasting Table, Zynga, *Daily Candy (which alone returned 53x to its investors), and Thrillist. After that run, Pilot shut down. Host Committee, Trigger MediaIt was time for Russell to build companies on his own. So he did, raising millions from guys like former Morgan Stanley CEO John Mack, Paul Tudor Jones, and Allen and Co. — that's how his current firm, Trigger Media, was born. So far, Trigger has had two companies, and two successes. Men's lifestyle newsletter, Inside Hook, and Host Committee, which is looking to expand into other cities. "The host committee comes together around a charity, or an alumni organization, or around friends, or around dating so everyone in the venue is two degrees of separation," says Russell. He believes that, more than anything, is what makes it so appealing. Using technology to turn you and your friends into VIPs at exclusive clubs doesn't hurt either. "Whether you’re the hottest or you're not the hottest club in town we have remnant perishable inventory," Russell says. "I want to own the night between 8 p.m. and 11 p.m." You should hope he gets what he wants, because if he does, you do too.   *This post has been changed to reflect that Daily Candy returned 53x to its investors, not Pilot Group. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yuri GripasGluskin Sheff's David Rosenberg spent a good chunk of his note today assessing the legacy of Ben Bernanke as the FOMC announces its final monetary policy decision under his leadership. "I'm sure the historians will provide their own assessment with the passage of time," Rosenberg wrote in a note to clients. "I mean, look at how we view Alan Greenspan today compared to all the accolades given exactly eight years ago when he was dubbed the 'maestro.'" For Rosenberg's part, Bernanke gets a C- based on the three "phases" of his chairmanship. For "phase one" — the period before the crisis — Rosenberg gave a tough 35% score for indicating "that the problems in subprime would be contained and that home prices never decline over a 12-month period. ...He started his tenure in early 2006 and so he had at least a year-and-a-half to read the same tea leaves that apparently both Ed Gramlich and Janet Yellen both managed to see." As the crisis heated up, Bernanke made the necessary adjustments. For that, he gets a 100% phase two score from Rosenberg. "He acted vigorously and courageously, and in particular QE1 was correctly aimed at solving a complete failure in the mortgage market, and along with TARP, did put a floor under confidence and blazed the trail for the recovery," Rosenberg writes. Rosenberg got critical again on phase three, awarding Bernanke a 60% score. From his note: As for QE2 and QE3, I feel these policies were unnecessary, that the recovery, tepid or not, would have continued in the same manner as it did, that providing free money (the funds rate has been between o% and 0.25% since late 2008) and nurturing negative real short-term rates was sufficient to get the job done, and embarking on these quantitative easings merely financially repressed seniors and also distorted price signals in the private marketplace which is never very healthy for capitalism, even if it psychologically juices up asset prices, it now leaves us with a tremendous degree of uncertainty in the future as this experiment draws to a close and this pregnant central bank sheet begins to shrink. Splitting the difference, Rosenberg gives Bernanke 60% overall or a "C-" (though at some universities, a 60 is most certainly in the D range). There you have it. FREE AppDownload
Julia La Roche for Business InsiderOn Wall Street, many of the biggest traders and fund managers love playing poker. And they're good at it, too.  Pro poker player Phil Hellmuth, who has won thirteen bracelets at the World Series of Poker, explained that there are a lot similarities between the card game and trading the markets.  When it comes to the market, you have traders managing money in a forum with a lot of other people around them. Just like in poker, the traders are betting against other traders and betting on or against certain stocks.  "It's very similar. You're sitting down and you're playing against other players and you're betting on your cards versus their cards.  I also think traders, sometimes they're notorious. When they're on tilt, they over-bet a little. Same thing in poker." Last night, hundreds of Wall Street traders, bankers and analysts gathered in the Prince George Ballroom in Manhattan's Flatiron District to play their favorite game for charity.    The Aces &amp; Angels "Salute the Troops Wall Street Poker Showdown" raised funds for the Intrepid Fallen Heroes Fund, Wall Street Warfighters Foundation and the Marine Corps Scholarship Foundation. Hellmuth was the host for the evening.   Firms in attendance included Goldman Sachs, J.P. Morgan, Drexel Hamilton, Greenlight Capital, Pine River Capital, Davidson Kempner Capital Management, SAC Capital Advisors, Sanford C Bernstein &amp; Co., Magnitude Capital and others. We also met many financial services professionals who served in the military. The winner got a seat in the World Series of Poker tournament this summer in Las Vegas.  If you missed the event, we've included highlights and photos of those who were in attendance.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Shannon StapletonCompleted foreclosures dropped 24% in 2013 from the year prior, according to new data from CoreLogic. There were 620,111 completed foreclosures last year, compared to 820,498 in 2012. For December 2013, foreclosures came in at 45,000, down 14% year-over-year and 4.1% month-over-month.  "The decline indicates that the distressed foreclosure inventory is healing at an accelerating rate heading into 2014," CoreLogic chief economist Mark Fleming said in a release. "Clearly, 2013 was a transitional year for residential property in the United States. Higher home prices and lower shadow inventory levels, together with a slowly improving economy, are hopeful signals that we are turning a long-awaited corner," added CoreLogic CEO Anand Nallathambi. "The housing market should continue to heal in 2014, but we expect progress to remain very slow.”  Some highlights from the report: — Florida, Michigan, California, Texas, and Georgia accounted for almost half of all national completed foreclosures in 2013. — Florida had the highest foreclosure inventory as a percentage of all mortgage homes, at 6.7%. — Wyoming had the lowest foreclosure inventory as a percentage of all mortgaged homes, at 0.4%. And check out the chart from CoreLogic showing the number of mortgaged homes per completed foreclosure. CoreLogic FREE AppDownload
Getty ImagesEmerging market economies are seeing their worst start to the year in half a decade, but leaders in Argentina, Turkey and China are pointing fingers at everyone but themselves and the fundamental problems with their economies. So far this year, $520 billion value has disappeared from emerging market equities. In Argentina, a devaluation of the peso last week meant to preserve international reserves sent prices surging. In Turkey, the Central Bank's move to hike overnight lending rates from 7.75% to 12% in order to stem the decline of the Turkish lira seemed to stabilize the currency, but then reversed. In China, recent data points have indicated that the country's growth is slowing. But leaders in these countries don't seem interested in grappling with the hard economic challenges they face. The main headline on the front page of leading Argentine newspaper, Clarin today is about a statement the head of President Cristina Fernandez's cabinet made about businesses that rose their prices — 'Capitanich criticizes the unpatriotic attitude of business leaders,' it reads. Argentines have an ugly history with inflation. So ugly, that the government has been in hot water for doctoring inflation rates for years. Official statistics put it no where near the independant 30% rate, and non-governmental statisticians put December's rate at 4.26%, the highest in 12 months. The problem to Capitanich, though, is that what Argentines are seeing is a destabilization of economic 'character' in the business community and speculation on the peso from big business and media. He's asking consumers to "defend the politics of price to defend our wallets," and the Secretary of Commerce has found 31 violations of a law called the 'Commercial Loyalty and Defense of the Consumer Act.' Whatever that is. In Turkey, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan is blaming the foreign media and business lobby groups for the lira's decline. Here's what he said to lawmakers on Tuesday, according to the Wall Street Journal. "My dear brothers, these organizations have always stolen the national will in this country. They have pocketed the resource and energy of this country," Mr. Erdogan said. "Is it only BBC? Also The Wall Street Journal. Who are the bosses of these newspapers? Who own these newspapers?" he added. Not so reassuring. In China, the government has dispensed with the public statements and quietly created a new agency to police financial markets. It will be under the control of President Xi Jingping's office (of course) and will investigate "emerging threats" to financial markets, like hot money coming in from foreign investors and rocking the stock market. From the South China Morning Post: Some government agencies had been collecting evidence and data in recent years to prove how speculative foreign capital - "hot money" - moved through the underground banking system, rocking the stock market and affecting local investors' confidence in the mainland's economic development. Investigating this type of activity used to be the responsibility of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, but the Chief Investment Officer of that agency, a PIMCO vet named Zhu Changhong, was sacked shortly after news of the Xi's new agency broke. Good to see everyone's really going after this problem. FREE AppDownload
Business Insider is looking for an experienced Web Analytics manager to join our marketing team in New York City. This is a senior analytics role for a candidate with several years of experience in Web and marketing analytics.  Responsibilities include: The ideal candidate will have: Business Insider is a fast-growing business media company that was built for the digital age. Launched in 2007, the site offers real-time coverage of tech, finance, and general business news. BI reaches the next generation of business leaders.  This opening is immediate and is based out of our New York City office (no remote work or relocation assistance). To apply, please email a resume and short cover letter to mktgjobs@businessinsider.com. Thanks in advance.   FREE AppDownload
APA new report shows that budding marijuana tourists may be searching like never before for flights to Denver, now that Colorado has officially legalized pot. And the most irregular jump in demand is coming from states with the strictest drug laws in the country. According to travel planner Hopper.com, flight search demand to Denver has been 6.3% higher than the national average since December 1st. Marijuana was legalized for recreational use on January 1st. "Demand has been up at least 10% for each of the last three weeks, and peaked at a 14% increase during the first week of January," Hopper's chief data scientist Patrick Surry writes in the report. Correlation doesn't equal causality, but Surry thinks the spike in demand lines up neatly with the news cycle surrounding marijuana legalization. "It doesn't seem as though [the increased Denver traffic] is a seasonal thing," Surry told the Riverfront Times. "It doesn't match the pattern of demand you see for ski vacations." Plus: "Although Denver's also been in the news for their January playoff run, that doesn't seem to be a major factor causing increased traffic as neither of Denver's playoff opponent cities showed an above average demand," Surry writes. Surry found that flight searches from the Midwest, in particular, are totally high right now. "All those states, other than Minnesota, have strict laws. There's no decriminalization or medical use," Surry explained to the Riverfront Times. This map from the report shows where flight search to Denver has rocketed at least 25% relative to the national average. As Surry notes, the cities tend to be clustered in the Midwest, where penalties for weed can be harsher (with the exception of Minneapolis): Hopper FREE AppDownload
REUTERSFor some investors, choppy waters, uncertainty, and volatility are just the price of rapid growth. Even more, they're a thrill. For these investors, Bloomberg Markets Magazine has compiled a list of the 16 most promising frontier markets on the globe. These are places where only investors like Mark Mobius (the Indiana Jones of investing, if you will) dare to tread. To calculate the ranking, Bloomberg Markets Magazine awarded countries points based on 19 different indicators including gross domestic product growth, inflation, current-account balance, government debt and total investment. Countries were then given a score of zero to 100, the maximum number of points for each category, to compute their overall score. FREE AppDownload
We believe there’s a better comparison that’s much more recent. But first, let’s dispel the 1981 and 1994 repeat rumors. Runaway Inflation (1981) or Sudden Shock to the System (1994) The driving characteristic of 1981 was double-digit inflation. In combating that, the federal funds rate soared toward 18%–20%. Today, questions around inflation mostly relate to the lack of it, rather than runaway levels of it. Many investors claim 1994 as their reference point for the perils accompanying interest-rate hikes. Will improving US growth and falling unemployment trigger a repeat of 1994’s rapid doubling of the fed funds rate from 3% to 6%? Probably not. Speed and surprise were key elements in 1994, and markets felt somewhat ambushed as the Fed rapidly fired about a half dozen rate increases after a long period of monetary calm. Today, the Fed has taken great care to provide highly transparent communications about catalysts for future rate hikes as well as the likely extent and pace of them—none of which were present in the Fed’s communications leading up to 1994’s initial rate hike. And today’s Fed intends to reduce its quantitative-easing programs before embarking on a normalization of rates, which may take several years to unfold. Which leads us to… 2003–2006: A Better Barometer for Today’s Changes While not a perfect match, we believe the June 2003–June 2006 period had some pertinent similarities to today: rates rose meaningfully, but slowly—and in response to improving growth over time. The fed funds rate began the 2003–2006 period at multidecade lows (then 1%). Over the first year, 10-year US Treasury yields rose by roughly 100 basis points (bps). The Fed then increased rates by a total of 425 bps over the next two years, with 10-year US Treasury yields climbing another 100 bps. Compare that to today. Both Fed and market expectations for the cycle suggest a very similar occurrence: an increase of nearly 350 bps in the fed funds rate and about 150 bps in the 10-year US Treasury yield. The big difference? This time, the Fed and markets expect the process to take even longer, approximately four to six years. How did bond returns fare in the June 2003–June 2006 period? The 10-year US Treasury had an average annual return of –1.3% (–3.7% cumulative return), and the Barclays US Aggregate Index was up 1.5% annualized (4.6% cumulatively). Similarly, we’d expect benign, modestly positive core bond returns again if the same slow-and-steady scenario plays out—especially if the path is as lengthy as currently envisioned. While the two periods share several key factors, some other elements of the story are different. We don’t think they alter the basic resemblance, but they are important points for portfolio positioning today, and we’ll discuss them soon. This article originally appeared at The Alliance Bernstein Blog.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
This real life drama has been taking  place for the past couple of weeks in District Court Judge Paul Gardephe's courtroom, where Mathew Martoma has been accused of, and is on trial for, obtaining confidential, non-public information from two doctors who had been involved in clinical trials for a drug to treat Alzheimer's disease.  Allegedly, he then made trades (getting out entirely of the long positions SAC held) in the companies Wyeth and Elan, based on the information, that in some of the clinical trials this particular drug had not reached its goals.  These trades helped SAC avoid enormous losses (based on those original long positions) in these companies, and to eventually reap a profit of $276 million on the trades. If you haven't been in a courtroom in awhile, let me tell you it's a far cry from the "Perry Mason" days. There are computers in front of each opposing sides; the defense and the prosecution. There are large TV monitors set up on every angle of the room, to see and read whatever exhibits are being presented into evidence. The judge has computer screens in front of his desk, and when you glance over to the jury box you see monitors for each and every member of the jury. High tech everywhere you look. The room hums with precise efficiency, and the tension and drama are omnipresent. It's not Hollywood, it's very real.   As I enter the courtroom 30 minutes ahead of the 10:00am start, Matt Martoma and his legal team are already there. I'm sitting just two rows behind Mr. Martoma, who is dressed somberly in a darkish suit and blue tie. He is stone-faced, rigid, and stares straight ahead. Except for an occasional glance back at his wife every now and then, he shows zero emotion. While I can't possibly know for certain what he's thinking, you can garner an idea that he's scared as hell. And who wouldn't be!   Lead attorney for Mr. Martoma, Richard Strassberg, seems to be making polite chit-chat with the prosecution, while various members of his team scurry about fetching documents and papers. Present in the first row are Martoma's wife Rosemary and other family members. On the other side of the courtroom you have the prosecution, fired up with confidence knowing that since 2009 the US Attorney's office has nailed down 77 convictions without losing a single trial. That's right, not a single trial.    You look around the room and can't help but wonder how Martoma's successful life came to this, where and when exactly was that first wrong turn, why did his moral compass fail him, could the $9 million bonus he received at SAC possibly been worth it? The next 45 years of Mr. Martoma's life are being decided by 12 jurors inside courtroom, #110.  By the end of this week or early next, Martoma's fate will be in the hands of these seven women and five men.    Will Martoma and his family return to their luxurious Boca Raton, Fla. home, (helped by the $9 million dollar bonus he received in 2008) or will he be sent to prison, perhaps for 45 years, where there will certainly be no luxury. Just misery.  On the stand today was Mr. Martoma's former research analyst, Katie Lyndon, who joined SAC in September of '07 and left two years later. She is now employed by Maud Capital in Chicago, Ill. Speaking timidly and nervously, initially Ms. Lyndon was hard to hear, prompting Judge Gardephe to ask her to slow down and speak more directly into the microphone. One of the main points the prosecution tried to nail down, and get Ms. Lyndon to explain as best she could, was how the two largest long positions in Martoma's portfolio (Wyeth and Élan) suddenly (the day before the bad news about the Alzheimer's drug was released) had been sold off and in fact was now a short position.  At SAC there is a computer program called "Panorama," which allows portfolio managers and research analysts to see current positions.....however these aforementioned trades were done away from panorama so no else in the firm (other then Steve Cohen and Matt Martoma) could see the executions and the newly created position. Strange.    The jury seem attentive, and in spite of all the trader jargon &amp; Wall Street jibberish that's thrown about the during the day, they eagerly take notes and pay close attention. They know their responsibility here; Martoma's next 20-45 years rests in their hands.  It seems that neither the defense or prosecution wants to overburden the jury with too many minute details, but instead are sticking to the facts and trying to keep their presentations as simple as possible.    Closing arguments will most likely take place towards the end of this week or perhaps early next.     Needless to say, until then, these will be hard stressful days for Matt Martoma and his family. I believe, however, that the worst is yet to come for him, and the US Attorney's office will have another insider trading conviction.   FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ Shannon Stapelton Hedge fund manager Bill Ackman, who runs Pershing Square Capital, sent a letter to investors last night regarding one of Pershing Square's young analysts who has left the firm.   His letter was extremely classy. See, for about a month, the blogosphere and Twittersphere had been wondering if Shane Dinneen, the analyst tasked with putting together the hedge fund's famous Herbalife short, was still with Pershing Square. The bet against Herbalife has been a huge money loser, and everyone had been wondering about Dinneen's fate. Ackman's letter confirmed that Dinneen had resigned from Pershing a while ago.    Ackman refers to Dinneen as "one of the most talented investment analysts" he had ever worked with and someone he holds in "high regard."   Dinneen — a tall, red-headed Texas native and Harvard graduate — spent a lot of time working on the Herbalife short thesis. In December 2012, he presented the 342-slide presentation alongside Ackman. That's something that most 28-year-olds in the industry have never done before. So far, the Herbalife short hasn't played out in Ackman's favor. Pershing Square has amassed hundreds of millions in paper losses.  Still, Ackman writes that he remains confident in his belief that Herbalife operates as a "pyramid scheme." He also said that Dinneen is welcome to come back to Pershing Square at any time.   We've posted Ackman's letter below: (Emphasis ours) Dear Pershing Square Investor, For several months, Shane Dinneen, a member of our investment team since late 2007, has expressed interest in leaving Pershing Square to pursue other interests.  As Shane is one of the most talented investment analysts I have ever worked with and someone I hold in high regard, I have done my best to convince him to stay with the firm.  Recently, he decided it was time for him to move on to areas of his own interest outside of activist investing.  Shane has been a great contributor to Pershing Square.  Shane did superb work on GGP, Burger King, andmost recently Herbalife in addition to many other successful investments.  As our Herbalife investment has moved from financial analysis to a regulatory and legal execution, Shane has not been leading this investment for some time.  Roy Katzovicz, our Chief Legal Officer, and David Klafter, Senior Counsel, have led the Herbalife regulatory effort over the past year and have made significant progress. We wish Shane success in his future endeavors and have let him know that we will keep a seat open for him on the investment team if and when he decides to return.  Shane intends to remain a meaningful investor in Pershing Square. With respect to Herbalife, we remain convinced that the Company has operated an illegal pyramid scheme since its founding.  We are encouraged by the recent regulatory developments concerning the Company.   Sincerely,   Bill FREE AppDownload
It’s that time of the year again. We’re just a few days away from the biggest and most important sporting event of the year. And not just because we get a great football game and an endless amount of beer, wings and nachos, but because the outcome signals what the stock market will do for the rest of the year. I’m serious. The Super Bowl Indicator was first discovered in the 1970s by influential sportswriter Leonard Koppett. The indicator is very simple: if an original NFL franchise wins the Super Bowl it is bullish for the market. If a pre-merger team from the AFL (American Football League) or an expansion franchise wins the game, it is bearish for the stock market. 1967: Green Bay vs Kansas City at the L.A. Coliseum The numbers don’t lie. The first time they played this game was in 1967 when it wasn’t even called the Super Bowl. Officially, it was the AFL-NFL World Championship Game. Some called it the Super Game. A few years later, it was finally given the name that it holds today. And from the start this indicator has worked well. The Green Bay Packers, a legendary NFL franchise, won the first two Super Bowls and S&amp;Ps rallied 20.1% in 1967 and 7.7% in 1968. But then Joe Willie Namath beats Johnny Unitas at the Orange Bowl in Super Bowl III. What happens? S&amp;Ps lose over 11% that year since the Jets came from the AFL. New Yorkers weren’t too happy with that outcome and the Jets haven’t been to a Super Bowl ever again. Super Bowl III Game Program 1969 That was the beginning of the Super Bowl Indicator. Since 1967 the average annual return for the S&amp;P500 has been a gain of 8.33% and positive for the year 3/4 of the time. These stats improve dramatically when an NFL team wins but become much worse when they don’t. I grew up in Miami watching the Dolphins. We’ve been waiting patiently to get back to where this franchise was in the early 70s. But the markets get killed when they win. For example, in 1972 the Dolphins went undefeated 17-0 beating the Redskins in Super Bowl VII, which was played in January of 1973 (see Garo Yepremian). That year the S&amp;P500 went down 17.3% – remember Miami was an AFL team. The following year Miami won again and the S&amp;P fell 28.7%. Then the Pittsburgh Steelers won back to back titles. Fortunately for market participants, they were originally an NFL team; S&amp;Ps went up 31.5% and 19.15% those two years. Then the Oakland Raiders won, an AFL team again, and S&amp;Ps lost 11.5%. When an original NFL franchise wins the Superbowl, the S&amp;P500 averages a gain of 12%, almost a 50% better return than normal years. But most importantly, the stock market is positive for the year over 85% of the time. That is a serious success rate that we as money mangers just can’t ignore. Last year was a win/win situation. We knew after the AFC and NFC championships games that the market would rally for the rest of the year. Since the 49rs were an original NFL franchise and the Baltimore Ravens are the original Cleveland Browns, another old-school NFL franchise, it didn’t matter who won. Sure enough, S&amp;Ps rallied almost 30% in 2013. (Note: There was no expansion when the Cleveland Browns turned into the Baltimore Ravens. That makes them an NFL Franchise for purposes of the Super Bowl Indicator) This year is different, however. The Super Bowl Indicator says this is a lose/lose situation for the stock market. You see, the Seattle Seahawks were a new expansion franchise that didn’t come into the league until 1976, well after the AFL/NFL merger. The Denver Broncos, of course, have always been well-known as an AFL franchise. The average return for the S&amp;P00 under circumstances like this, where an original NFL team does NOT win the Super Bowl, is down 1.3%. This is a much different outcome. So on average the S&amp;P500 is up over 8% per year since 1967. When an original NFL franchise wins, it jumps up to 12%/yr with an 85% success rate. But when an AFL team or expansion franchise comes up victorious, S&amp;Ps average negative returns. That’s not good. But here is the good news. There are exceptions to every rule and it just so happens that Denver, historically, is one of those exceptions. As we know, John Elway went out on top winning back to back Super Bowls for Denver. In both those years 1998 &amp; 1999, Denver (a former AFL franchise) was supposed to send the market lower. But nope, in ’98 S&amp;Ps rallied 26.7% and in ’99 returned 19.5%. So there you have it folks. The truth about the Super Bowl Indicator and its stock market implications. *** There is zero causation with this correlation, so none of this should be taken seriously. It’s just for fun *** FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's Blog The current emerging markets crisis didn’t just start last week. It’s been going on for a while, and should come as no surprise to investors. Argentina’s peso has plunged 18.9% y/y. South Africa’s rand is down 5.7%. Turkey’s currency has been a turkey since 2008. The following have been running trade deficits for the past year or longer (with the latest 12-month deficits in parentheses): India ($155 billion), Indonesia ($6 billion), Philippines ($8 billion), Turkey ($97 billion), and Ukraine ($14 billion). During the emerging markets crisis of 1997, the S&amp;P 500 rose 31.0% that year with only one brief correction amounting to 9.6% early that year. There was a more significant correction of 19.3% in 1998 after the Russian ruble crisis and mostly in reaction to the collapse of LTCM. Yet the S&amp;P 500 rose 26.7% that year. History doesn’t repeat itself, but it does rhyme. The notion that an emerging markets crisis is bearish for the US stock market isn’t confirmed by the experience of 1997. Recessions are bearish for stocks. So far, it’s hard to see how the current emerging markets crisis triggers a recession in the US. Besides, aren’t great years like 2013, when the S&amp;P 500 is up over 20%, bullish for the following year? History doesn’t confirm this notion either. During the 86 years since 1928, there have been 21 years when the S&amp;P 500 rose by 20% or more. Excluding last year, the 20 were followed by 13 up years (averaging gains of 17.2%) and seven down years (averaging losses of 13.6%). Today's Morning Briefing: Crises Now &amp; Then. (1) 1929 and now. (2) So far, so good. (3) The previous emerging markets crisis wasn’t bearish for S&amp;P 500. (4) Thailand in 1997 and Argentina now. (5) Emerging market crisis didn’t start last week. (6) No default allowed in China. (7) Disappointing earnings season. (8) Real GDP vs. GDP deflator. (9) Focus on market-weight-rated S&amp;P 500 housing-related stocks. (More for subscribers.) Dr. Ed's Blog FREE AppDownload
Mike Nudelman/Business InsiderBitcoin is experiencing its longest period of price stability in months, a trend that could help allay concerns that the digital currency is just too volatile to be of much mainstream use. Starting in October, Bitcoin began experiencing almost violent price swings, driven largely by a run-up — and just as soon, a free fall — in Chinese demand. In December, the People's Bank of China banned financial firms entities from handling Bitcoin, severely restricting the ability of BTC China, the world's largest exchange, to operate. The volatility charge has been cited even by retailers who now accept Bitcoin. Overstock.com, for instance, immediately converts its Bitcoin holdings into USD through Coinbase to avoid pricing risks. "Until we can hedge through some kind of derivative instrument, we don't want to take that direct exposure," Overstock CEO Patrick Byrne told BI recently.  But Bitcoin price charts show volatility has seriously deflated in January. And that's despite numerous negative opinions on the digital currency from Malaysia, Russia, and the world's largest Nordic foreign currency trader — and despite the arrest this week of a major Bitcoin player.  Here's what prices have looked like on Mt. Gox this month. The price this morning was about $930. BitcoinCharts The average Bitcoin price across all USD-traded exchanges is in fact $825. But the January stability can be seen here too. BitcoinAverage This is all relative of course — Bitcoin still usually moves in increments of 1% to 2% today. And it would be foolish to predict how long this period will last. China could yet ban Bitcoin outright. There are also signs that the world's largest tech firms are inching toward implementing digital currencies into their retail units, which would cause prices to surge again. But this month has provided evidence that there's nothing inherently unstable about Bitcoin. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jason Reed We've just seen three unexpected rate hikes from emerging market central banks. First was India, then Turkey and finally, South Africa. While these rate hikes have moved markets, Bob Savage writes in his latest Track Research note that "the key driver today isn’t the failed reaction of the TRY to rate hikes from the central bank but more the contagion of the FOMC continuing to taper its QE." Instead he thinks investors will be watching money flows in the coming days instead of rate decisions "to really determine what is safe and what is not." Meanwhile he says there are three ways that emerging market economies can fight off potential outflows from further Fed tapering. We get the latest FOMC meeting announcement at 2 p.m. ET today. FREE AppDownload
    Thankfully, men's bags have evolved past the ten pound hunk of metal your dad rocked in the eighties. Today, there are a variety of options for every guy and every occasion. Macy's Inc. Vice President, Men's Fashion Director Durand Guion shows us what's trending and how to make it work with your look. Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis. Additional camera by Justin Gmoser. Follow us on YouTube » FREE AppDownload
Today has become extremely interesting. Yesterday evening, the Turkish Lira SOARED after a massive rate hike by Turkey's central bank. The move helped created a bout of risk on sentiment across the market.  But everything has totally reversed. The Turkish Lira has given up all the gains. Markets around the world are now sliding, as the Dow is off 144. The NASDAQ is down 1%. GERMANY is off 1.8%. And it's not just Turkey. Also this morning, the South African Central Bank delivered a surprise rate hike in order to stem the bleeding in the rand too. But that's not working either. Here's a look at the US Dollar vs. the Turkish Lira. As you can see, the Lira's sharp gains yesterday against the dollar have been totally erased. XE Just to add to the tension, this evening we get a big Fed decision. FREE AppDownload
The bailout of AIG remains one of the more controversial chapters of the 2008 financial crisis. So under the Freedom of Information Act, the Wall Street Journal in March requested transcripts "related to federal investigations into three former AIG executives from the London unit that nearly brought down the insurer." That investigation ended in 2010 and the SEC didn't end up bringing any charges. In response to the Journal's request, the SEC has released absurdly redacted files, blacking-out the names of witnesses, lawyers, and "even the proofreaders who checked the transcripts." From the Journal (via Bloomberg's Matt Levine): In one instance, the deletions reduced a question by an SEC investigator to: "Is he right about the [[redacted]] in [[redacted]] ahead of the [[redacted]]". The answer: "Yes. I think that's accurate that the [[redacted]] at a faster [[redacted]] than [[redacted]] was [[redacted]]." Here's what some of the pages look like: WSJ WSJThe SEC told the Journal its decision was based on "extensive…precedent and a close analysis of individual facts and circumstances." You can see the full document here and read the Journal's story here. FREE AppDownload
The South Africa Reserve Bank has taken the unexpected move of hiking rates today at the conclusion of their monthly policy meeting, and the rand is plummeting on the news. The SARB hiked its benchmark interest rate 50 basis points to 5.50%. Market economists expected rates to be left on hold. The rate hike comes on the heels of two other unexpected rate hikes by central banks in emerging markets earlier this week. Across EM, markets have been caught in a storm of portfolio outflows as the Federal Reserve begins winding down its quantitative easing program, reducing dollar liquidity in worldwide. Tuesday, the Reserve Bank of India unexpectedly hiked its benchmark interest rate 25 basis points to 8.00%. And at the conclusion of an emergency meeting last night in Ankara, the Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey announced massive rate hikes to shore up the plummeting lira, raising its benchmark overnight rate a whopping 425 basis points to 12.00%. The chart below shows the reaction of the U.S. dollar-South African rand to the SARB action this morning. Right now, USDZAR is up 1.9%, trading at 11.2750. Thinkorswim FREE AppDownload
The Daily ShowWhen last we saw libertarian investor Peter Schiff, he was staging a fake protest outside of WalMart in an effort to mock workers demanding higher wages. Schiff was back at it again on last night's Daily Show. In a segment on the minimum wage, Schiff told correspondent Samantha Bee that "people don't go hungry in a capitalist economy." "It's socialism that creates scarcity, that creates famine," Schiff said. "In a free market, there's plenty of food for everybody, especially the poor." Bee also interviewed another familiar face, investor and blogger Barry Ritholtz, who took the other side of the argument.  "There are a number of studies that have come out that show increasing the minimum wage actually improves the economy," Ritholtz said. "If we raise people up to just $11 so they are at the poverty level, they'll go out and spend that money on food and medicine." Toward the end of the segment, Bee asks Schiff who should earn $2 an hour if the minimum wage isn't a good idea. "What's the politically correct word for mentally retarded?" Schiff says, before fumbling a bit. Watch the segment:  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yuya ShinoCanon Inc Chairman and CEO Fujio Mitarai speaks next to the company's digital SLR camera EOS-1D X during an interview with Reuters at the company's headquarters in Tokyo January 9, 2014. Japan's Canon Inc will aim to hike the proportion of products made at home to 50 percent within the next three years from 42 percent, as the export-reliant camera maker banks on the yen weakening further, Mitarai told Reuters in an interview on Thursday.Japan's Canon said on Wednesday that it missed its full-year profit target due to slumping demand for its digital cameras as consumers increasingly turn to smartphones for taking pictures. The company reported that net profit rose 2.6 percent last year to 230.5 billion yen ($2.2 billion) thanks to a weak yen and cost-cutting efforts, but that figure missed an earlier prediction for a 240 billion yen profit. Revenue rose 7.2 percent to 3.7 trillion, while Canon said it logged a 4.1 percent rise in operating profit to 337.3 billion yen. Unlike many Japanese firms which report on a fiscal year ending in March, Canon reports on a calendar-year basis. Rising profits were mainly due to "the effects of ongoing cost-cutting efforts along with the depreciation of the yen," it said in a statement, adding that it saw "steady sales growth for office multifunction devices and laser printers". Japanese exporters have benefited from the yen's sharp decline over the past year as it inflates their repatriated income and makes them more competitive overseas. Canon and Japanese rivals including Sony and Olympus have seen a big drop in demand for their digital imaging products as camera-equipped smartphone sales boom. For 2014, Canon said it expected to earn a net profit of 240 billion yen and an operating profit of 360 billion yen on sales of 3.85 trillion yen. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
The head of Nintendo said Wednesday he would slash his salary in half after announcing a 30 percent dive in nine-month profit on weak demand for its new Wii U console as gamers are enticed by cheap, downloadable games for mobiles. President Satoru Iwata told reporters he would draw a reduced salary for five months to atone for the downturn, while other members of the board will take a pay cut of between 20 and 30 percent. When asked if his pay cut could extend beyond June, Iwata said: "I will make a decision after looking at the management situation at that time." Nintendo is due to hold an analyst conference Thursday to outline plans for a new business strategy. The news comes just over a week after the Kyoto-based company shocked investors by warning it expects to slip back into the red in the year to March and slashed its Wii U sales forecast owing to weaker-than-expected holiday season demand. Analysts have criticized the system's limited game selection, as rivals Sony and Microsoft enjoy robust demand for their new PlayStation 4 and Xbox One consoles. "Nintendo's worse-than-expected performance is mainly due to a slump in the Wii U," said Hideki Yasuda, a games analyst at Ace Securities in Tokyo. "They haven't released attractive games titles which slammed the brakes on console sales. Also, its rivals have seen strong demand for their consoles which is taking market share away from Nintendo." The three giants of the $44 billion global video games market are locked in a tough battle against cheap -- or sometimes free -- games that can be downloaded to smartphones and tablets. A move into mobile games? Nintendo has also faced criticism for refusing to license some of its iconic brands, such as Donkey Kong and Super Mario, for use on mobile applications. But Iwata hinted at a move into the mobile games business, saying that "how to utilize smart devices is the theme of our management policy conference (Thursday)". On Wednesday Nintendo said it earned 10.20 billion yen ($98.8 million) in the nine months to December as revenue fell 8.1 percent to 499.12 billion yen. It also reported a 1.58 billion yen operating loss. The company's shares have fallen about 12 percent since it warned it would make a loss this fiscal year and sell just 2.8 million units of the Wii U worldwide. That is less than a third of its earlier forecast for 9.0 million consoles, and deals a blow to its hopes of matching the blockbuster success of the original Wii. Nintendo launched the Wii U in late 2012. By contrast, Sony had sold more than 4.2 million PlayStation 4 consoles by the start of this year, less than two months after its release. December videogame hardware sales reached $1.31 billion as gamers flocked to hits including “Grand Theft Auto V" and military shooter title "Battlefield 4", according to market research firm NPD Group. To help shore up its embattled stock, Nintendo on Wednesday announced it would buy back nearly 8.0 percent of its outstanding shares. The grim forecast is especially disappointing for a company that scratched its way back to profitability last year thanks to a sharply weaker yen, which inflates Japanese firms' repatriated profits. Nintendo has previously blamed weak earnings partly on high development and marketing costs for the Wii U, launched in late 2012, although sales of its 3DS handheld console and related game titles fared better. It cut prices on both consoles to boost sales. This month, Iwata apologized to shareholders for the downturn, saying that "my duty, more than anything else, is to revive our business momentum". It is not uncommon for Japanese executives -- who tend to make far less than their US and European counterparts -- to take pay cuts when results come in below expectations or in the case of unethical behavior. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Youssef BoudlalSince the beginning of the year emerging markets have gotten completely routed. There have been a number of explanations — a Chinese slow down, the davaluation of the Argentine peso, political problems exacerbating economic problems in Turkey — but lets be real, markets come back. When they do, you should be ready. For that moment, Bloomberg Markets Magazine has compiled a list of the 22 most exciting emerging markets in the world. These are places where there's an opportunity around (almost) every turn if you know how to see it. To calculate the ranking, Bloomberg Markets Magazine awarded countries points based on 19 different indicators including gross domestic product growth, inflation, current-account balance, government debt and total investment. Countries were then given 0 to the maximum number of points for each category for their overall score (which was out of 100).   FREE AppDownload
Scott Olson/Getty ImagesDave Lutz, head of ETF trading and strategy at Stifel Nicolaus, passes along what he's "chattering about as I await the Beard" — the bewhiskered Ben Bernanke's final FOMC meeting. Good Morning!  Much of the overnight enthusiasm is wearing off as EU/US traders’ man their desks.   We had a Wall at 1800 in the e-minis pre-market, and it’s hard to image a break above prior to the FOMC announcement at 2pm today.   Right now E-Minis are off slightly, while Nasdaq is slightly higher as AAPL tries to recover from yesterday.   Focus on Turkey, where the Lira has given up a chunk of it’s gains, but remains near 2week highs against the $.  Turkey’s equity market saw it’s bid evaporate as well, after being up 3% early, is now 1% underwater.   The DAX just bounced off unchanged, and the EU fins remain well bid, up 60bp.   Volumes have been decent overseas, with major EU/UK markets trading 10-30% above their normal trend.   In Asia, the Nikkei leapt 2.7% as the Yen dropped (Futures adding another 50bp), while the Sensex slipped red on profit taking after yesterday’s jump.   Ahead of the Fed, my focus will be on the Lira$ and Real$ crosses – if they start getting hit we could lose much of yesterday’s gains – WSJ reports Last year the S&amp;P 500 dropped during five of the eight days the Fed concluded a meeting, a surprisingly consistent outlier during the market’s record-breaking rally..   Single Stock Movers include FSL +8% (#s), DDD + 2%, EA + 2% (#s) – The losers are RFMD, YHOO -4% (#s), VMW -3% (#s) The 10YY in the US is up small, and continues to consolidate around it’s 100dma.  Stress remains in the Treasury Bills expiring post debt-ceiling; with March maturities still yielding 10bp over Jan’s.   The DXY is slightly lower, gaining against the € but losing ground to the Yen.    We do have a bid to metals, specifically Industrial one like Silver and Copper as China’s default risk fades into the sunset (for now) – while Gold is jumping 1% as it has bounced a few days off the $1250 level.   Nat gas is trekking 2% higher, while WTI is under pressure on a large inventory build in API data last night.  While the highlight of the day will be the FOMC at2pm (No presser) – we have DOE data on Crude at 10:30 (looking for a 2.2mln increase), there is NO POMO today at 11, a early Treasury auction of floaters at 11:30, and New Zealand announces on rates tonight at 5.  Many will have there eyes on China’s official PMI overnight, as the “flash” PMI spooked traders last week. And check out our preview of today's big FOMC meeting » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Luke MacGregorA Shell logo is seen at a petrol station in London January 31, 2013.Anglo-Dutch energy giant Royal Dutch Shell said on Wednesday that it has sold a large stake in an offshore Brazilian oil field to Qatar for about $1.0 billion. Shell said it has agreed to offload a 23-percent interest in the Parque das Conchas (BC-10) project offshore Brazil to new partner Qatar Petroleum International. The deal, which will leave Shell with a 50-percent stake, remains subject to regulatory approval in Brazil. The London-listed group will continue to operate the oil field, which currently produces 50,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day. Shell added that it will retain a "significant" upstream presence in Brazil. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
In last night's State of the Union Address, President Obama announced a new retirement saving program called MyRA, which he plans to launch without any new legislation. But he didn't say a lot about what it is. Now, we have additional info on the program from the White House. Basically, it's a program of starter retirement accounts aimed at people who don't have a lot of savings. Here are some key details: MyRA would be a program of small Roth IRAs with access to a special, safe investment that pays a little better than Treasury bills. Remember, a Roth IRA is a retirement account where you contribute after-tax earnings, and can then withdraw money in retirement without ever paying tax on your investment returns.Employers wouldn't run or fund the accounts, but they'd participate by letting employees fund them through payroll deductions, which could be as small as $5 per pay period.Almost any employee of a participating employer could join. You just have to make less than $191,000.Accountholders could accrue balances of up to $15,000, at which point they'd have to roll the balance over into a regular, private Roth IRA. Voluntary rollover and withdrawal would be availalble anytime, and it looks like normal Roth IRA withdrawal penalty rules would apply.The accounts would be invested in a security similar to the "G Fund" available to federal employees participating in the Thrift Savings Plan. This fund has all the advantages of short-term Treasury bills (no credit risk or interest rate risk) but pays an interest rate based on the average of outstanding long-term Treasury bond rates. That's a nice little interest rate bonus. The value of the difference varies over time; this chart from TSP Folio shows how the G Fund generally outperformed T-Bills by a percentage point or two from 1987 to 2010. In 2012, with 3-month Treasury rates effectively at zero, the G Fund returned 1.47%.Basically, the idea is to get retirement accounts to people who normally wouldn't have them, by making them available at little cost to either employer or employee, and offering the inducement of a little extra yield.  This program will have a modest cost to taxpayers: Essentially, instead of issuing short-term Treasury bills at almost no cost, the federal government will do a little bit of its borrowing through this G Fund-like security, paying an extra point or two of interest in the process. If you imagine a program at scale with 50 million accounts averaging $5,000 in balances, the cost to taxpayers would be $2.5 billion per year for every point of interest rate premium.   FREE AppDownload
ChryslerDETROIT (Reuters) - Chrysler Group LLC, which is owned by Fiat SpA, on Wednesday said its revenue would rise 11 percent to about $80 billion in 2014. The American automaker that went through bankruptcy in 2009 and came out managed by Fiat, is now fully owned by the Italian company, which reported fourth-quarter earnings on Wednesday below expectations of analysts. Chrysler's fourth-quarter net income of $1.62 billion, up 329 percent from the previous year, included a $962 million non-cash tax benefit related to the release of a valuation allowances on deferred tax assets. Adjusting for the one-time benefit, Chrysler's fourth quarter net income was $659 million, compared with $378 million a year ago. Net revenue for 2013 was $72.14 billion, up 10 percent from 2012, and was primarily driven by an increase in vehicle shipments, which rose to 2.6 million, up from 2.4 million in the previous year. Chrysler said it expects 2014 net income to be between $2.3 billion and $2.5 billion. That compares with net income of $2.76 billion in 2013, which includes the one-time tax benefit of $962 million. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Tyrone SiuHealth officers in full protective gear wait to cross a road near a wholesale poultry market in Hong Kong January 28, 2014. Hong Kong began culling 20,000 chickens and suspended imports of fresh poultry from mainland China for 21 days on Tuesday after the discovery of the H7N9 bird flu virus in a batch of live chicken from the southern province of Guangdong. Good morning. Here's what you need to know. — At an emergency midnight meeting, the Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey announced massive rate hikes to shore up the Turkish lira, which has been plummeting to successive all-time lows against the U.S. dollar in recent weeks amid a government corruption scandal and deteriorating economic fundamentals. The central bank's benchmark overnight lending rate was raised to 12% from 7.75%, while the repo rate was raised to 10% from 4.5% and the overnight borrowing rate was hiked to 8% from 3.5%. The lira surged on the news but has already given back most of its gains early in Wednesday trading. — The Federal Open Market Committee announces its final policy decision under the leadership of Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke at 2 PM ET. The widespread consensus is that the FOMC will move forward with another $10 billion reduction to its monthly bond-buying program, but the bigger question is how it might seek to modify the language in its policy statement to strengthen its forward guidance on the likely path of short-term interest rates. — Ahead of the FOMC announcement, gold is up and the dollar is down against the euro and the yen. S&amp;P 500 futures have been falling all morning and now point to a negative open. Treasuries are poised to open slightly lower as well. Markets in Asia rallied overnight — the Japanese Nikkei 225 advanced 2.7%, the Hong Kong Hang Seng rose 0.8%, and the Shanghai Composite gained 0.6%. European markets are rallying, led by Spain's IBEX 35. — Shares of Yahoo! Inc. are down more than 3% in pre-market trading following the release of earnings results for the quarter ended December 31. Earnings per share were $0.46, better than the consensus estimate of $0.38, but display ad revenue fell 9% year over year to $1.9 billion, prompting concerns over the company's core business. — President Obama delivered his annual State of the Union address last night. "There were not any big policy surprises or announcements on energy/environment policy, housing, student loans, or healthcare," says Chris Krueger, a policy analyst for Guggenheim Partners in Washington, D.C. "'Opportunity for All' was relatively light on partisanship that covered many similar themes heard in previous States of the Union (tax reform, energy independence, gun control, patent reform, etc.) that are perennial topics in D.C. each year." — At 11:30 AM, the U.S. Treasury will auction $15 billion of 2-year floating-rate notes, marking its first new product offering in years. "Auction statistics may be hard to interpret without any historical bid/cover or indirect bids as comparison, but we expect decent participation from dealers as well as customers," say Nomura interest rate strategists. "However, we will not be surprised to see a bit of concession as dealers look to build up inventory only at attractive levels, while some customers take a wait-and-see approach at this inaugural FRN auction. Looking past the clearing level at 11:30 AM, we expect buyers of various investor classes to provide strong support for new FRN, especially on any yield spread cheapening." — The Reserve Bank of New Zealand will announce its latest decision on monetary policy at 3 PM ET. Economists predict the central bank will leave its official cash rate unchanged at 2.50%. "Dovish lean on the meeting is increasingly strong," says Todd Elmer, a currency strategist at Citi. "We believe this gives rise to risk for New Zealand dollar strengthening beyond expectations on even a modest hawkish surprise and we believe this argues for maintaining long exposure." — Market research company GfK's German consumer confidence indicator rose to 8.2 from last month's 7.6 reading, marking a larger-than-expected gain. "Germans consider the domestic economy to be clearly on the upturn at present," said GfK in a statement. "This is reflected in the fifth consecutive improvement in economic expectations. In the wake of this, income prospects climbed to reach a 13-year high. Willingness to buy also improved and surpassed its seven-year high of the previous month. The considerable increase in the consumer climate is further boosted by a recent slump in propensity to save." — U.K. house prices rose 0.7% in January from a month earlier, slowing from December's 1.4% month-on-month pace of growth but surpassing the consensus estimate, which called for a 0.6% advance. The year-over-year pace of house price appreciation increased to 8.8% in January from 8.4% in December. — South Korea's current account surplus rose to a record $70.73 billion in 2013. Meanwhile, the global economic "canary in the coal mine" also saw industrial output expand 3.4% from the previous month in December, marking the strongest gain since June 2009. MARKET COMMENTARY "Today's main event is the U.S. FOMC meeting, after London goes home. The Fed will probably deliver a further $10 billion in 'tapering' — cutting Treasury and MBS purchases by $5 billion each. That would surprise no one, but from India to the U.S., we are now in a global monetary policy tightening cycle, and that is likely to resurrect the bear market in Treasuries. 10-year yields, having fallen to 2.7% amid the EM weakness, will head back toward 3% in the days ahead. How fast they rise will determine how long the improvement in risk sentiment lasts, but within G-10, rising U.S. yields at a time of economic outperformance leave us wanting to be long USD. "As for the wider picture, the turn in the Fed cycle is causing volatility in markets over-reliant for too long on super-easy Fed policy. The slow, uneven process by which a new equilibrium is reached with investors differentiating between 'carry' and genuine investment opportunities, is going to drag on for much of the year. Volatility will return." —Kit Juckes, a global strategist at Société Générale  "We believe the ECB’s most likely next easing step could be a refi rate cut. The ECB could also add more (excess) liquidity by suspending SMP sterilisation or cutting reserve requirements. A deposit rate cut and forward guidance remain on the agenda, while we do not see a conditional LTRO as measured response to a moderate tightening of money market rates. "Excess liquidity has come down as banks have repaid LTROs, and, in turn, the EONIA has moved higher within the ECB’s corridor. That means that the refi rate – the top of the ECB corridor – has become more effective, while the deposit rate – the floor of the ECB corridor – has become less effective. A refi rate cut is a low-risk/low-impact measure and could be seen as an easy compromise to signal that the ECB is still there, whatever it takes." —Lars Peter Lilleøre, Alexander Wojt, and Anders Svendsen, analysts at Nordea "The global equity market’s newfound volatility seems to have had a novel impact on investors: money flows related to U.S.-listed exchange traded funds are actually negative in the year to date and will likely end up in the red for the month of January. While not quite white-rhino rare, we are so accustomed to ETFs reliably (if not inexorably) drawing capital that these outflows merit a brief review. "Through yesterday, U.S.-listed ETFs had lost $8.5 billion from redemptions. Pinpointing the culprit isn’t difficult: SPY, EEM, VWO, IWM and QQQ represent a combined $22 billion of year-to-date ETF redemptions. Putting the data in context, the easiest conclusion is that both the unusually negative ETF flows and the recent spot of volatility both have the same cause: payback for some end-of-2013 fast money flows into U.S. stocks. Market action from the Fed's announcement (Wednesday) to the next jobs report (a week from Friday) will tell us if the easy explanation is also the right one." —Nicholas Colas, chief market strategist at ConvergEx Group FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Larry Downing "There were not any big policy surprises or announcements on energy/environment policy, housing, student loans, or healthcare." That's from Chris Kreuger of Guggenheim securities. There was talk of doing small-bore stuff on executive actions (circumventing Congress). And there was talk about doing more on inequality and upward mobility and helping the middle class. But mostly, Obama didn't say much new. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/StringerA worker adjusts the valve of an oil pipe at Khurmala oilfield on the outskirts of the city of Arbil, in Iraq's Kurdistan region December 4, 2013.Iraq is poised to flood the oil market by tripling its capacity to pump crude by 2020 and is collaborating with Iran on strategy in a move that will challenge Saudi Arabia's grip on the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries. "We feel the world needs to be assured of fuel for economic growth," Hussain al-Shahristani, Deputy Prime Minister for Energy in Iraq told oil industry delegates attending a Chatham House Middle East energy conference. Al Shahristani said on Tuesday that Iraq plans to boost its capacity to produce oil to 9m barrels a day (bpd) by the end of the decade as Baghdad rushes to bolster its economy, which is still shattered by war and internal conflict. Iraq was producing 3m bpd in December, according to the International Energy Agency. Iraq's intention to challenge Saudi Arabia's status as the "swing producer" in the OPEC cartel could see a dramatic fall in oil prices if Baghdad decides to break the group's quotas and sell more of its crude on the open market. "It's very difficult to predict actual world (oil) demand by 2020 because the world economy is unpredictable," said Mr al-Shahristani. British oil giants BP and Royal Dutch Shell are also poised to benefit from Iraq's ambitious production plans. Both companies are already managing two huge oil fields in southern Iraq which are vital if Baghdad is to achieve its goal. However, even if Iraq is able to achieve its target of boost production capacity it is unlikely to be able to put in place sufficient pipeline and port infrastructure to export the additional crude. Iraq's main export terminal for loading oil tankers at Al Faw near Basra will require billions of pounds worth of improvements in addition to the refurbishment of its pipeline network. Iraq's ambitious plan could see it clash increasingly with the regime in Saudi Arabia, which has used its influence in OPEC over the last decade to keep oil prices above $100 a barrel. Saudi itself is now under pressure to boost output to maintain market share. The kingdom pumped 9.8m bpd in December up by about 100,000 barrels from the previous month. Experts say that attention within OPEC, which pumps 30pc of the world's crude, could increasingly focus on compliance with more of the group's members tempted to pump more barrels to protect their share of the market as the cartel grapples with the rise of US shale oil production. OPEC agreed in early December to renew for six months its 30m bpd output cap for the first half of the year to keep prices above $100. However, quotas have in the past proved difficult for OPEC as a group to enforce without any binding penalties for over-producing. Since its restoration to OPEC following the 2003 Gulf War, Iraq has been excluded from the group's quota system to allow its economy to recover but pressure is mounting for it to comply this year. The International Monetary Fund this week warned that Iraq's weak economy remains vulnerable to fluctuations in oil markets. Crude oil exports account for 93pc of government revenues. The IMF estimated that Baghdad required an average oil price of $106.1 per barrel in 2013 to balance its budget, up from $95 in 2011 because of higher spending. Despite Mr al-Shahristani's hopes for boosting Iraq's energy sector there are severe concerns over security amid fears the country may again be slipping toward a civil war between Sunni and Shia Muslim factions. In a further challenge to Saudi Arabia, which is mostly closed to international oil companies, Mr al-Shahristani revealed that Baghdad is working with Iran to help it attract investment ahead of the possible lifting of sanctions. Oil companies are understood to be queuing up to win Iranian oil deals. "Iran has been in touch with us," said Mr al-Shahristani. "They want to share our contracts model and experience." Combined, Iran and Iraq hold greater reserves of oil than Saudi Arabia and the potential with the help of international investment to match its capacity to produce oil, which currently stands at around 12.5m b/d of crude.  FREE AppDownload
The biggest story right now in global financial markets is Turkey, and in particular its currency problem. Basically, the currency has been tanking amid economic and political turmoil. Last night, The Turkish Central Bank did a massive rate hike to stop the bleeding. But this morning, much of the gains from yesterday are wearing off. To grasp the volatility, here's a one-week chart of USD vs. TRY.  As you can see, the US Dollar soared against the Turkish Lira until Monday morning when Turkey announced that it would hold a special central bank meeting to halt the bleeding. That caused a rapid turnaround as the dollar weakened dramatically against the Lira. But as of this morning, the Turkish currency is weakening again as investors wonder whether what the Central Bank did will be enough. XE.com FREE AppDownload
AP(Reuters) - A U.S. bank regulator is warning about the dangers of banks and alternative asset managers working together to do risky deals and get around rules amid concerns about a possible bubble in junk-rated loans to companies. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency has already told banks to avoid some of the riskiest junk loans to companies, but is alarmed that banks may still do such deals by sharing some of the risk with asset managers. "We do not see any benefit to banks working with alternative asset managers or shadow banks to skirt the regulation and continue to have weak deals flooding markets," said Martin Pfinsgraff, senior deputy comptroller for large bank supervision at the OCC, in a statement in response to questions from Reuters. Among the investors in alternative asset managers are pension funds that have funding issues of their own, he said. "Transferring future losses from banks to pension funds does not aid long-term financial stability for the U.S. economy," he added. The breadth of the statement from the OCC is unusual because it technically oversees banks and not asset managers. Regulators are eyeing a number of risks to the financial system as they aim to prevent a repeat of the mortgage bubble that spurred the 2008-2009 financial crisis. They are not comfortable with different players sharing risk if the total level of risk in the system is getting dangerously high. That may be happening with leveraged loan issuance, which hit a record $1.14 trillion in the U.S. in 2013, up 72 percent from the year before, according to Thomson Reuters Loan Pricing Corp (LPC). A measure of the riskiness of these loans has also been rising - the average size of the debt for companies taking these loans in 2013 was 6.21 times a form of cash flow known as EBITDA or earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization, up from 5.86 times in 2012 and the highest since 2007, LPC said. The OCC's comments show how emboldened regulators now feel as they seek to curb threats to the financial system. Under the 2010 Dodd-Frank financial reform bill, the OCC, the Federal Reserve and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation are among the regulators that belong to the Financial Stability Oversight Council, which is charged with finding and stopping potential sources of financial crashes. It remains to be seen what tools bank regulators belonging to FSOC can use when dealing with non-banks. Meredith Coffey, executive vice president of the Loan Syndications and Trading Association (LSTA), which counts alternative asset managers among its members, declined to comment on the role of the alternative asset managers in leveraged finance. No major asset manager would comment for this story. Some alternative asset managers carrying out private equity deals, including Blackstone Group LP, Apollo Global Management LLC, KKR &amp; Co LP, Ares Management LLC and Carlyle Group LP, have credit investment arms and business development companies that have been financing leveraged buyouts as banks pass on some of the deals. The OCC, Fed, and the FDIC issued guidelines to banks last year to limit their risk-taking for leveraged loans. But regulators are no more sanguine with asset managers taking on this risk given their investors include underfunded public pension plans. They are also worried about the growth of the so-called shadow banking sector, which includes non-bank lenders such as hedge funds and money market funds. Officials at the Federal Reserve and the FDIC declined to comment. THE JUNKIEST JUNK Regulators are most alarmed about leveraged loans to companies with the poorest credit quality. Many of the loans helped to finance buyouts and to fund payouts to private equity firms in the form of dividends. The regulators' guidelines to banks last year called for borrowing companies to be able to pay down all of their senior debt in five to seven years, or to be able repay half of their total debt in a similar time frame. These have been followed up by individual letters to some lenders. Debt levels where total borrowings are more than six times EBITDA, after asset sales, may also be viewed as problematic, regulators said. As a result, banks appear to be paying some heed to regulators' warnings, and are becoming increasingly selective about which highly-leveraged U.S. company loans they are willing to underwrite. That's where asset managers believe they have an opportunity. Besides doing deals that banks turn down, alternative asset managers have been exploring ways to team up with banks to share risk on the deals, including ways for the funds to be the first to take losses if the loans head south. And the vast majority of deals that alternative asset managers help finance are in the so-called middle market, typically involving companies with revenue of less than $1 billion. But many of the credit funds have aspirations to do bigger deals. Some bigger deals are getting done now. For example, when buyout firm Sycamore Partners agreed to buy apparel retailer Jones Group Inc in November for $1.2 billion, KKR's credit investment arm committed 70 million pounds ($116 million) in debt and $60 million in equity financing for the deal, according to a regulatory filing. (Reporting by Greg Roumeliotis; Editing by Dan Wilchins, Martin Howell and Eric Walsh) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermid A Deutsche Bank sign is seen on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange January 15, 2014. FRANKFURT (Reuters) - Bank will emerge from its painful restructuring plan well-positioned to lead consolidation in Europe after 2015, its two chief executives said on Wednesday. Seeking to reassure investors after posting a surprise quarterly loss, co-Chief Executives Jain and Juergen Fitschen said Germany's flagship lender was on track to meet its ambitious restructuring and profitability targets set for next year. "We are fully aware of the enormous challenge we have set ourselves. This will also entail some painful changes," Fitschen told reporters at the bank's annual news conference. Germany's biggest bank, under attack from regulators and politicians over its culture and litigation issues, predicted a tough 2014 after revealing a 1.15 billion euro ($1.56 billion) loss for fourth-quarter due to a slump in trading income, restructuring charges and pricey legal settlements. But Jain and Fitschen sought to reassure investors that their turnaround plan was on track, saying Deutsche would complete next year ready to lead a consolidation in Europe in part due to its investment in new technology and restructuring. "The strong platform we are building will position Deutsche Bank as a leading European consolidator post-2015," the executives said in the text of a speech. "Deutsche Bank is determined to play a leading role." The bank has slimmed down its balance sheet but regulatory issues, such as a global investigation into alleged currency market manipulation, could mean more money has to be set aside to cover any related costs. The bank paid around 2.1 billion euros in fines in December alone but new potential liabilities keep piling up. The forex probe and other potential problems have led analysts and investors to forecast 1.4 to 2 billion euros more in settlement costs for 2014 and 2015. (Editing by Carmel Crimmins) FREE AppDownload
China has overtaken France and Italy to become the world's number one consumer of red wine, although the United States remains the world's biggest tippler of all types of wines, the wine and spirits trade association VINEXPO has said. China drank 1.865 billion bottles of red wine last year, or in trade terms 155 million nine-litre cases, contributing to a 136 per cent increase in consumption over five years. That beat France into second place for red wine and Italy into third, VINEXPO said, based on figures compiled by the London-based International Wine and Spirit Research firm. The reason for the massive surge in red wine drinking in China, apart from growing affluence, is the Chinese preference for red over white on cultural grounds based on the colour, said Guillaume Deglise, the new CEO of VINEXPO. "Red is the colour of luck and good fortune and white is the colour of death" in China, Deglise told Reuters. "So you don't want to drink white, why would you?" As the Chinese market matures, Deglise said he also expected an increase in consumption of white wines and champagne. Overall, the United States remains the world's top wine consumer, VINEXPO said, with China remaining in fifth place and not expected to change that ranking in the immediate future, the organisation said. Since 2011 the United States has been the world's largest wine consumer, with consumption expected to hit 385 million cases by 2017. The figures were released ahead of the VINEXPO Asia-Pacific exhibition to be held in Hong Kong on May 27-29. The event will feature 1,300 exhibitors and is expected to draw 18,000 visitors, a spokesman for VINEXPO said. Major producing nations from Chile to Australia and including France, Italy, Spain, New Zealand and Mexico will be represented at the event, VINEXPO said in a statement. Edited by Barney Henderson  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jonathan ErnstOutgoing Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke, exiting stage left.Today, the Federal Open Market Committee announces its final monetary policy decision under the leadership of Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke. At its December meeting, the FOMC finally took the plunge and began tapering down its quantitative easing (QE) program, reducing the pace of monthly purchases it makes in the U.S. Treasury and mortgage-backed securities (MBS) markets by $10 billion to $75 billion. The consensus forecast of Wall Street economists — per Bernanke's own comments at the conclusion of the December meeting — is that the FOMC will continue reducing bond purchases by $10 billion at each meeting, dependent on changes to the economic outlook, putting QE on track to disappear by the end of 2014. Turmoil in emerging markets since the December meeting — and a string of weak U.S. economic data releases in the last few days — has some wondering whether the Fed will put the process on hold for now, but most consider such a scenario extremely unlikely. With this policy path cemented into expectations, eyes are already turning to the next phase in the process of monetary policy normalization — when will the FOMC begin to raise short-term interest rates from the current target range between 0 and 0.25%, where they've been pinned since the financial crisis? Thus, a key question regarding the FOMC's January policy decision is whether or not the Committee will seek to strengthen its forward guidance on the likely path of short-term interest rates. Economists and strategists from Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, Citi, and Société Générale weigh in below. KRIS DAWSEY, ECONOMIST AT GOLDMAN SACHS: On balance since the December meeting, data surprises have been modestly negative. However, the most notable disappointment<U+2015>the December employment report<U+2015>appears to have been significantly distorted by adverse weather, while many of the other negative data surprises since the meeting were second-tier releases. In contrast, the latest data on ISM manufacturing, core retail sales, industrial production, and the January regional Fed surveys have been encouraging. Our Q4 GDP tracking estimate currently stands at 3.2%. Driven entirely by private final demand, this rate of growth suggests solid momentum heading into 2014. In short, we do not think the Fed has significantly changed its thinking on the near-term trajectory of the economy. However, modest changes to the statement’s language could include the addition of “in recent months” in the sentence referring to further improvement in labor market conditions, implicitly recognizing the weaker December employment report. An explicit reference to the weather is also possible. On the positive side, the latest housing market numbers generally suggest that the recent run of softer data may be ending. As a result, the housing sector language might be upgraded to indicate that recovery “continued” rather than “slowed.” We see little need to adjust the language on inflation. VINCENT REINHART, CHIEF U.S. ECONOMIST AT MORGAN STANLEY: As for policy, what to expect at the January meeting depends on your interpretation of what happened at the December meeting. Was old-school guidance the best Janet Yellen could cobble together given a divided committee? Or, was it Ben Bernanke’s next-to-last pass at keeping comity among his committee? We think it was the latter and expect Janet Yellen to be patient, one more time. The December FOMC statement was not elegant to read nor amenable to the formal expression of policy associated with the incoming chairwoman, but it conveyed her preferred stance of policy. The FOMC can repeat the message that rates will be kept low even as the unemployment rate gets lower and trim another $10 billion from their asset purchases to keep them on a glide path to zero this year. ... The hardest task for the Fed will be to keep yields from backing up as incoming data convey substantial momentum. But the threat of a rate back-up will make it easier for Yellen to corral her contentious committee. Over time, we expect policy communication will become more formal. The give and take of market protests and official push-back, however, are likely to make for a bumpy ride. ANETA MARKOWSKA, CHIEF U.S. ECONOMIST AT SOCIETE GENERALE: The FOMC will not be publishing its growth projections following this week’s meeting but, as always, it will be updating the outlook internally. Given the evolution of the data, there is a very good chance that the outlook will be revised up, at least modestly. Back in December, the Fed implicitly assumed Q4 GDP of just 1.8%, which at the time was similar to the consensus estimate. After a series of monthly data releases, the consensus forecast has increased gradually to 3.3%, while our own tracking estimate now stands at 4.2%. Either way, growth probably averaged in excess of 3.5% in the second half of last year, surpassing even the most optimistic forecasts. We believe that some of that momentum will spill over into the FOMC’s 2014 forecast. ... The FOMC surely knows this and will search for ways to further anchor short-term rate expectations. What can be done? The Fed has made it easy and listed all of its options in the January primary dealer survey. They include: (1) lowering the unemployment rate threshold; (2) more clearly conveying that inflation remains an important consideration in adjusting the fed funds rate; (3) providing further guidance on information relevant to determining the appropriate timing of the first rate hike after the UNR threshold is reached; (4) using medians of fed funds rate projections from the SEP to communicate the likely path of short-term interest rates. We believe that option #1 would be most powerful in anchoring the front end of the curve and preventing rate hike expectations from spilling over to late 2014. However, there was little support for the idea at the December meeting, and it is unlikely that such a significant shift would be announced at a meeting with no press conference. Option #2 does not strike as very impactful, unless the FOMC introduces an outright inflation floor (recent studies found that a 1.5% floor would not be effective, but a 1.75% would). Option #3 seems to be a variation of the “well past” phrase introduced in December, and it seems too vague to be effective. We believe that option #4 is most likely to be implemented at this meeting. STEVEN ENGLANDER, GLOBAL HEAD OF G-10 FX STRATEGY AT CITI: Were the FOMC to ignore asset markets, and simply upgrade the growth outlook slightly along with the expected taper, domestic and foreign asset markets would continue to face pressure, but long rates would probably be dragged down by equities. However unintentionally, not mentioning the turmoil abroad would be viewed as Fed indifference, but the Fed’s mandates do not include foreign economies. Conspiracy theorists may argue that the Fed will see a bright side in the combination of lower equities prices and weak EM as giving US housing a boost via lower mortgage rates. But the Fed is unlikely to see it that way, given the risk of such a strategy backfiring.  Explicit FOMC concern about the possible impact of EM and asset market developments on US activity, rather than just watchfulness, would be dovish and EM positive. The Fed has stressed its view that what is good for the US is good for the world, but that convinces no one abroad and few domestically, so the only issue is whether the Fed can find wording that simultaneously expresses serious concerns on spillover risk and remains non-committal. Irrespective of the wording, if investors walk away thinking there is only rhetoric and little possibility of a Fed reaction, asset markets will sell off. The compromise may be to hint at a strong policy reaction under a narrow set of circumstances. FREE AppDownload
Tom Perkins was on Bloomberg TV yesterday afternoon discussing  comments he made in a letter to the editors of the Wall Street Journal over the weekend.  In case you missed it, the letter explained how the 1% are a minority group being attacked by the majority.  And Perkins made a totally inappropriate comparison with the persecution of the Jews during WW2.  Not surprisingly, this set off a firestorm. I understand the point Perkins was making.  But these aren’t the comments that interest me.  Instead, I was intrigued by some comments Perkins made in the Bloomberg TV interview.  At one point, he discussed how he came from the 99% and declared: “i am your classical self-made man, if you will.” I always find comments like this to be a little bizarre.  There’s a certain level of egotism in this idea that anyone is a “self made man”.  As if they’re Robinson Crusoe alone on an island building everything from nothing only to find themselves later surrounded by swarms of people dying to do business with them and praising their past efforts.  Of course, that’s not at all how life works.  We are inherently social creatures residing and evolving within an incredibly interconnected world where our future success relies on the past, present and future successes of many. This is not to say that independent thinking or personal skills do not matter.  Far from it!  But I would echo the thoughts from the latest letter by Howard Marks on luck and skill: “a great many things contribute to success.  Some are our own doing, while many others are beyond our control.  There’s no doubt that hard work, planning and persistence are essential for repeated success…But even the hardest workers and best decision makers among us will fail to succeed consistently without luck.” Marks goes on to explain the role of chance in our lives.  How being born in the USA sets us on a dramatically different path than being born in a third world country.  Or how being born at a particular time can bring a person incredible fortune.   But this only scratches the surface of this myth of the “self made man”. You see, in a monetary world, your success relies on millions of other people believing that you have something useful to offer the world.  In the aggregate, producers need consumers.  And consumers need producers.  There are two sides to every economic transaction and no one gets rich on their own.  And more importantly, in a highly socialized network like the modern monetary system, the structures that make up for success are ultimately built on the backs of millions of people who contribute to the past, present and future foundations of that system.  No one built all of this by themselves. Tom Perkins is not unique here.  He did not build his firm on his own.  He was mentored by geniuses, utilized technologies that were developed by both the private sector and public sector and was fortunate enough to have access to the absolute best education in the world.  And only THEN was he able to leverage all of this into something great.  And don’t get me wrong – I am by no means saying that the success of someone like Tom Perkins is not due to hard work, personal skill and perhaps genius.  It’s just that there’s ALWAYS so much more to the macro story than one person’s micro achievements. The bottom line is  - no one is “self made”.   And people who use this term are almost certainly trying to perpetuate some sort of self aggrandizing myth that makes them feel more comfortable with what is likely fragile ego masquerading as a heroic white knight. FREE AppDownload
Getty Images Good morning! Markets were rallying solidly all over the world.  The gains started yesterday, as stocks broke the hard slump they were in for the three previous days. Then at 5 p.m. ET yesterday, the Turkish central bank announced an interest rate hike that was MUCH higher than people were expecting. The rate hike was designed to stem the flagging Turkish lira (and it worked, the lira instantly soared). The move also set off an instant bout of global risk-taking as stocks shot up everywhere. But markets are fading a bit. For one thing, the big Turkish lira move that everyone is watching is rapidly melting away. Equity markets are losing some of their luster. Germany had been up over 1.2%, but is now up less than 0.8%. U.S. futures are now only pointing to tiny gains. Today we get the latest Fed decision. A full preview of that is here. FREE AppDownload
