NEW YORK (Reuters) - SAC Capital Advisors' $1.2 billion criminal settlement for insider trading received final court approval on Thursday, as a U.S. judge accepted a guilty plea from the hedge fund firm run by billionaire Steven A. Cohen. At a hearing in Manhattan federal court, U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor Swain accepted SAC Capital's guilty plea to fraud charges and payment of a $900 million fine. In total, SAC Capital has agreed to pay $1.8 billion to resolve criminal and civil probes into insider trading. The U.S. Department of Justice said that payout is the largest insider trading settlement in history. "These crimes clearly were motivated by greed, and these breaches of the public trust require serious penalties," Swain said. SAC Capital also agreed to be placed on probation for five years, and employ a compliance consultant, former federal prosecutor Bart Schwartz. The sentencing marks the end of an era for SAC Capital, which last year had $15 billion of assets under management, according to court documents. An indictment in July alleged systemic insider trading took place at SAC Capital involving the stocks of more than 20 publicly-traded companies from 1999 through 2010. Eight employees have pleaded guilty or been convicted at trial. SAC Capital agreed in November to plead guilty to four counts of securities fraud and one count of wire fraud. "Today marks the day of reckoning for a fund that was riddled with criminal conduct," Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said in a statement. 'DIFFICULT PERIOD' The $900 million fine comes on top of a $900 million judgment approved in November by U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan in a related civil forfeiture case. That judgment gave SAC Capital credit for $616 million in earlier insider trading settlements with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, resulting in SAC Capital paying an additional $1.2 billion as part of the criminal accord. Had Swain rejected the deal, SAC Capital would have had the right to withdraw its guilty plea. The Stamford, Connecticut-based firm rebranded itself Point72 Asset Management on Monday, and is becoming a family office that will primarily manage Cohen's personal fortune, most recently estimated by Forbes magazine at $11.1 billion. Three of the four SAC Capital entities that pleaded guilty no longer manage investments, while the fourth may need 1-1/2 years to shed a "limited number of hard to liquidate assets," Martin Klotz, a lawyer for SAC Capital, said Thursday. As of February 1, the 800-employee firm, which Cohen started in 1992 with $25 million, oversaw $11.9 billion, according to regulatory filings. In a letter to employees Thursday, Tom Conheeney, the firm's president, said the judge's approval "brings to a close the government's proceedings against our firm and a difficult period for us all." "We will do whatever we can to make sure this doesn't happen again," he said. BROAD CRACKDOWN The settlement came amid a crackdown on insider trading on Wall Street by Bharara's office that has resulted in 80 individuals being convicted at trial or pleading guilty since October 2009. They include Michael Steinberg and Mathew Martoma, two SAC Capital portfolio managers who were found guilty in separate criminal trials in December and February. Both deny wrongdoing and are expected to appeal. Cohen, 57, has not been criminally charged. But in July, the SEC launched an administrative action to bar him from the securities industry for failing to supervise Martoma and Steinberg and prevent insider trading. Cohen has denied the SEC allegations, but has been in contact with the regulator regarding a possible settlement, a person familiar with the matter has said. Among the sticking points are whether the SEC should impose a lifetime industry ban on Cohen, or prevent employees from managing outside money, another person familiar with the case said. SENTENCING Cohen did not appear at Thursday's hearing, and his firm was represented by Peter Nussbaum, SAC Capital's general counsel. "We accept responsibility for the misconduct of our employees brought before your honor," Nussbaum said. Swain had also been expected Thursday to weigh a request for more than $1.5 million in restitution from SAC Capital by Elan Corp, a company at the heart of Martoma's case and now owned by Perrigo Co. SAC Capital had objected to the request but settled with Elan before the hearing, said Terence Healy, a lawyer for Elan. Asked by Swain during the hearing about the scope of Schwartz's consultant role, Antonia Apps, an assistant U.S. attorney, said he would have a "broad mandate" to evaluate and review SAC's compliance procedures and identify deficiencies. "While they may have had compliance policies on paper, they were clearly deficient in deferring insider trading," Apps said. The case is U.S. v. SAC Capital Advisors LP, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York, No. 13-cr-00541. (Reporting by Nate Raymond and Emily Flitter in New York; Additional reporting by Joseph Ax, Jonathan Stempel and Svea Herbst-Bayliss; Editing by David Gregorio, Andrew Hay and Lisa Shumaker) FREE AppDownload
The Nikkei was down as much as 2.8% falling to its lowest level in 2014. It has since pared some of its losses. This comes after heavy selling in the U.S., where the NASDAQ tumbled 3% and the S&amp;P 500 was down 2%.  This five-day chart shows today's sharp sell-off: Yahoo Finance Meanwhile, China's Shanghai Composite is down 0.3% and Hong Kong's Hang Seng is off 0.6%. Earlier today we saw Chinese producer prices fall for the 25th straight month.  FREE AppDownload
ReutersChinese consumer prices climbed 2.4% year-over-year in March, right in line with expectations. This compares with a 2% rise the previous month. Producer prices were down 2.3%, missing expectations for a  2.2% fall. This compares with a 2% decline in February. Producer prices were down for the 25th straight month. Some economists see this as an indicator of "the deflationary excess capacity in the system," while others think it is a sign of weak domestic demand. Bloomberg BRIEF economist Tom Orlik tweeted this chart that shows that falling producer prices doesn't bode well for industrial production data, out next week. Weak industrial production numbers will only add to concerns of China's economic slowdown. Tom Orlik via Twitter FREE AppDownload
ZeroOne on FlickrThe market has been shaky for awhile now, but today it just got real. The NASDAQ crashed 3%. The S&amp;P fell about 2%. The Dow dropped over 260 points. So here's the weird thing. There's really no "story" associated with this selloff, which is a point noted by Jesse Livermore on Twitter. Now let's be clear, usually stories that explain market movements are BS, but there usually is one: Ukraine, China, oil, political gridlock whatever. But this time it just seems to be: stocks are falling. The closest we have to a story is what David Zervos talked about yesterday, that the market is worried the Fed will tighten too soon. And Zervos has some points in his favor. But it's not a perfect story. In his email tonight to clients, BTIG's Dan Greenhaus (@danBTIG) writes: We’ve heard an endless parade of “of course equities are falling, the Fed is tapering!” Two important points get missed on this front. First, the S&amp;P 500 is still 3.0% above the level from before taper announcement. Second, the whole premise of the negative-taper argument was that rates would spike which would dent stocks from a number of angles. The 10 year yield is 20 bps lower than before the taper while the two year yield is roughly unchanged. One can’t have it both ways. The head-scratching will continue. FREE AppDownload
So ugly Bitcoin is. Earlier today it in the mid $400s. Now it's at $363. From Bitcoinwisdom: Bitcoinwisdom FREE AppDownload
(Reuters) - A group of investors is seeking to buy bankrupt bitcoin exchange Mt. Gox for a token payment of one bitcoin, or about $400, the Wall Street Journal reported citing sources. The group justified the near-zero price citing an "information vacuum" over Mt. Gox's missing bitcoins that made it hard to place a value on the lost digital currency, the paper said. (http://r.reuters.com/peq48v) Mt. Gox, once the largest bitcoin exchange, filed for bankruptcy in Japan in February, saying hackers had stolen 750,000 bitcoins belonging to its customers and 100,000 of its own bitcoins after exploiting a security flaw in its software. The investor group includes Brock Pierce, a former child actor-turned entrepreneur, and venture capitalists William Quigley and Matthew Roszak. The group hopes to revive the exchange and set aside 50 percent of its transaction fees to pay back burned customers and other creditors over time, the Journal said. Mt. Gox said in March it "found" 200,000 bitcoins in an old-format online wallet which it had thought was empty, raising creditors' hopes of recovering some of their lost digital wealth. The bitcoin exchange's creditors would have the option of receiving a prorated payment from the 200,000 recovered bitcoins, an estimated 20 percent recovery value on their claims, or receiving the equivalent amount in equity in the new exchange, the paper said. A form of electronic money independent of traditional banking, bitcoins started circulating in 2009 and have become the most prominent of several fledgling digital currencies. The acquisition must be approved by a Japanese bankruptcy court. However, the near-zero valuation of the proposed deal could prove to be a hurdle, the Journal said. (Reporting by Supantha Mukherjee in Bangalore; Editing by Simon Jennings and Sriraj Kalluvila) FREE AppDownload
Screenshot via movieclipsFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Discipline Is Key To Investment Success (Vanguard) "Although the asset allocation decision is one of the cornerstones for achieving an objective, it only works if the allocation is adhered to over time and through varying market environments," according to Vanguard. This chart shows two portfolios that start with 60% stock and 40% bonds. "But four years later the 'drifting' portfolio has moved to 75% stocks. That much equity exposure might seem appealing during a bull market, but by late 2007 the portfolio would have faced significantly greater downside risk as the financial crisis began." Vanguard Defined Contribution Plans Can Still Work (The AllianceBernstein Blog) A lot of ink has been spent discussing America's looming retirement crisis. Many argue that U.S. defined contribution (DC) plans can't offset the lack of savings and that these plans should be disbanded altogether. But Richard Davies at AllianceBernstein Blog thinks three key variables drive a defined contribution plan, and tweaks to these can help clients "achieve a comfortable retirement: the asset-allocation mix of the glide path, the savings rate before retirement, the spending rate after retirement, and age at retirement." He shows that increasing equity at 65 to 50%, from 40%, increasing savings to 4.5% and increase it by 0.5% per year until it hits 10%, and pushing the retirement age to 67, from 65 can make participants' money last to or beyond a person's life expectancy. Firms Want Advisors To Take A More Holistic Approach (Investment News)   While firms are pushing advisers to offer more holistic advice, few are doing so, reports Mason Braswell at Investment News. Holistic planning extends beyond financial advice to trusts, estate planning and other services. "The holistic approach is going to be the hallmark of the financial adviser of the future," Greg Fleming, president of Morgan Stanley Wealth Management said at the Securities Industry and Financial Market's Associations' (SIFMAs) private-client conference. Buybacks May Be Coming To An End (Business Insider) "The financing gap for the non-financial corporate sector has remained open since Q4 2008; i.e., capital expenditures have been running below the level of internal cash flow generation," Societe Generale's Aneta Markowska told Business Insider. "Rather than investing in new equipment and structures, businesses have used their cash positions to buy back stock or to grow through acquisitions." "This process, however, may be coming to an end. The ratio of the market value of equities to the replacement value of tangible assets (or the so-called Tobin Q ratio) has increased significantly in the past year and now stands at its highest levels since 2000. With equity values currently estimated at 25% above replacement value, expanding organically to make a lot more economic sense than expanding through acquisitions or stock buybacks." Business Insider/Societe Generale How Advisers Can Prepare For An Inevitable Downturn (The Wall Street Journal)  Kimberly Foss, CEO of Empyrion Wealth Management, is preparing for a pullback in stocks and rising inflation. Foss thinks advisers should have a plan in place and get rid of "'hopium': that foolish hope that everything will work out." Foss is telling her clients to keep their bond durations short at three years or less, and also warning against high yield. "That high yield doesn't pay you for the duration and the risk you're taking. When the world goes into crisis--and it's not a matter of if, but when--high-yield bonds are going to be the first to default," she writes in a new WSJ column. As for equity exposure, she recommends "40% equity exposure--in particular blue-chip stocks with strong balance sheets--and 60% fixed income." FREE AppDownload
Brazil’s situation has become so critical that ratings agency Standard &amp; Poor’s recently downgraded the country’s credit rating from BBB to BBB-, the lowest investment-grade rung, expressing the deterioration in the government’s fiscal position and a lack of confidence in its economic management. The announcement seems to have put more pressure on Brazil’s government to get its fiscal house in order. After the downgrade, Brazil’s tax department announced the government was considering increasing taxes to remedy lower-than-expected tax revenues. In February, Brazil’s minister of finance, Guido Mantega, had promised to cut public expenditures by US$18 billion during the year. However, he provided little detail about how he intended to do so. Most observers (including us) think that cutting government spending would be difficult if not impossible in the near term, given the looming presidential election in October. Brazil’s economic growth (2.3% in 2013 and the same is forecast for 20141) is not fast enough to generate sufficient capital to meet the infrastructure and social service needs of its young population. Government-controlled banks have been lending at a fast pace, but a good deal of it is not prudent, in our opinion, and could result in rising non-performing loans. Some observers believe the government might be required to inject more capital into those banks. This, of course, could lead to higher government debt-to-GDP ratios. Reform is critical, but it has been too slow since the political decision-making process in Brazil requires broad consensus and a lot of time for negotiations, in our view. Some reforms require amendments to Brazil’s constitution, and this needs two votes by full majorities of each of the houses of Congress, which are not easy to obtain given the wide differences between various interest groups coming from this vast country.   The Pendulum of Popular Opinion  In 2013, demonstrations in a number of Brazilian cities targeted bus tariff increases, corruption and poor infrastructure. Until then, Brazil’s government had enjoyed high popularity because of low unemployment levels and a number of populist programs. At the beginning of 2013, President Dilma Rousseff’s approval ratings were high at about 70%, but dropped to 30% by the end of that year. Despite the popularity decline, a divided opposition could split the difference and hand Rousseff a reelection victory in October. Given Brazil’s rising government indebtedness, money is needed from the private sector to develop the country’s infrastructure. Current plans call for a large number of private sector concessions to be granted for highways, railways, international airports and other services. The 2016 Olympics is forcing the government to move faster. Airport management and upgrading is urgently needed to accommodate millions of expected travelers. In late 2013, I was happy to hear that the management of the inefficient Rio de Janeiro airport was to be turned over to a Singapore-based company. Other such contracts and concessions have been granted in other areas. Carnival—Brazil’s Housing Crunch My team and I traveled to Brazil in early March and our first destination was Rio de Janeiro, the magnet for millions of people during Carnival, a celebration ahead of the Christian season of Lent. While many locals leave the city to get away from the noise and traffic jams, others from all over Brazil and other parts of the world arrive for a week of fun and spectacle. The Carnival Ball at the iconic Copacabana Palace Hotel in the heart of Copacabana Beach kicks off the celebrations, which carry on into the wee hours of the morning. Then the action moves to the Sambodromo, a one-kilometer road lined with boxes and bleachers for 80,000 spectators where “schools” from various neighborhoods compete with their best floats, drummers and music in a spectacular procession. Outside on the streets of Rio in the neighborhoods all over the city, “blocks” consisting of hundreds and even thousands of celebrants gather to drink and dance to the music of their own samba bands. Of course, this results in lots of crowded streets and noise with the city’s cleanup crews in their bright orange coveralls and big brooms working round the clock to clean up the mess. Since many of them feel underpaid, their unions feel Carnival is an opportune time to demand higher wages, which is what we witnessed in one district where a large crew sat down on the job. Fortunately, the dispute was settled with city officials, with what I understand in that case, resulted in higher wage promises.  While driving on the beach road street in Ipanema, where the famous “Girl from Ipanema” song originated, I could see the slums (favelas) rising up the mountainsides overlooking the beach. I turned to my taxi driver and commented that the people living in those shacks on the mountainside had a terrific view, and that it was a shame so many lacked legal ownership of the land. If they did, they could improve their lot in life and with property prices on the rise, even sell the land for a nice sum someday. I was delighted when he told me a government program to give legal title to people inhabiting the favelas was seeing some progress. I think the ownership program is very important, as granting legal title can also unlock capital to improve the favela inhabitants’ houses and neighborhoods. Several media reports indicate that more than 100,000, or about 23% of the homes in Rio’s favela communities, are in the process of receiving legal ownership titles.2 The process is complicated and involves a number of government departments, but there is hope, and newspaper reports in Brazil share the dreams of favela residents hoping to one day become legal homeowners. Generally in Rio, property prices have been exploding and housing costs have doubled in some cases over the last three years. Property deeds not only allow title to an asset that could increase in value, but also enable residents to have an address recognized by the courts and by banks, which can help secure credit. In addition, crime in the favelas is now being tackled, and it is coming down. Police have been establishing stations in the favelas instead of just making periodic raids on drug and gun dealers there, and the new program has made residing there safer. Related to what is happening in Rio’s favelas is the government’s “Minha Casa, Minha Vida” (“My House, My Life”) program announced in 2009. The program has been touted as a means to provide housing for millions of families who would not have access to it otherwise. It’s estimated that seven million families are living in sub-optimal living conditions, and the goal was to build one million new homes for them by 2016. That goal, having already been reached, has since been expanded, with a lofty price tag in the tens of billions of dollars. The governmental bank, Caixa Econômica Federal, directly controlled by the Ministry of Finance, is granting low- interest loans to land title owners and a large portion are in the favelas. Additionally, the program includes a number of private sector firms that are working to meet the nation’s housing needs. We met the executive of one company that operates in every stage of a typical low-cost housing development, including land acquisition, development, construction and sales. In all cities in which the firm operates, it offers two products directed to low-income customers: units between 40 square meters and 55 square meters of usable area and a sales price of less than $100,000 Brazilian reals (Rs) (about US$45,000 – US$46,000), and another offering of units ranging from 42 square meters and 70 square meters of usable area and prices ranging between R$70,000 and R$140,000 (or about US$32,000–US$64,000). The demand is strong, and management believed that Brazilian companies produced much less than the market could absorb. Another housing developer we visited was involved in a wide variety of completed and sold housing segments mostly targeted at the upper middle- and upper-income customers, but it has started moving more aggressively into the market for affordable entry-level housing. Overall, we were encouraged by the expansion of housing projects in Brazil. Of course, purchasing a home typically requires financing. There is a concern that the rise of mortgages, particularly through government bank financing, could become a burden for some families. Household debt in Brazil is currently above 40% of income; mortgages currently represent about a third of that debt3 but that percentage is increasing as a result of government-sponsored programs. As investors in Brazil, we are stepping back and looking at the long-term prospects for the country and have focused more on the consumer story than the political one. We believe that many consumer-oriented companies could continue to do well on an individual basis, which makes bottom-up analysis and active management critical, in our view. The housing sector in Brazil is just one example. We do recognize Brazil’s current challenges, and the concern that Brazil could even be headed for recession, which would put consumer spending and capital expenditure at risk. If Brazil’s government increases taxes amid a vulnerable economic and social situation, it could add to the strain. We are hopeful that the many positive resources and the potential we believe Brazil has will come back to the fore, and that upcoming prominent sporting events will aid even more in kick-starting reforms, investment spending and growth there. Dr. Mobius’ comments, opinions and analyses are for informational purposes only and should not be considered individual investment advice or a recommendation to invest in any security or to adopt any investment strategy. Because market and economic conditions are subject to rapid change, comments, opinions and analyses are rendered as of the date of the posting and may change without notice. This material is not intended as a complete analysis of every material fact regarding any country, region, market, industry, investment or strategy.  All investments involve risks, including possible loss of principal. Foreign securities involve special risks, including currency fluctuations and economic and political uncertainties. Investments in emerging markets, of which frontier markets are a subset, involve heightened risks related to the same factors, in addition to those associated with these markets’ smaller size, lesser liquidity and lack of established legal, political, business and social frameworks to support securities markets. Because these frameworks are typically even less developed in frontier markets, as well as various factors including the increased potential for extreme price volatility, illiquidity, trade barriers and exchange controls, the risks associated with emerging markets are magnified in frontier markets.   1. Source: IMF World Economic Outlook, January 2014. Copyright © 2014 By International Monetary Fund. All Rights Reserved. 2. As of December 2013. 3. Source: Banco Central do Brasil, as of March 2014. Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets - Notes from Mark Mobius  Mark Mobius, Ph.D., executive chairman of Templeton Emerging Markets Group, joined Templeton in 1987. Currently, he directs the Templeton research team based in 15 global emerging markets offices and manages emerging markets portfolios. As he spans the globe in search of investment opportunities, his “Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets” blog gives readers a taste for what he does, when, where, why and how. Dr. Mobius has written several books, including “Trading with China,” “The Investor’s Guide to Emerging Markets,” “Mobius on Emerging Markets,” “Passport to Profits,” “Equities—An Introduction to the Core Concepts,” “Mutual Funds—An Introduction to the Core Concepts,” ”The Little Book of Emerging Markets,” and “Mark Mobius: An Illustrated Biography." Read more posts on Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets » This article originally appeared at Investment Adventures In Emerging Markets.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Chris WattieJim Flaherty (front L) receives a standing ovation during Question Period in the House of Commons on Parliament Hill in Ottawa February 12, 2014. Editor’s note: A previous version of this article was originally published on March 19, the morning after Jim Flaherty resigned as Finance Minister. James Michael “Jim” Flaherty, former finance minister of Canada, has passed away at the age of 64. Reports indicate that his passing was due to a massive heart attack. It was just 23 days ago when Jim Flaherty resigned his position, announcing that he would stay on as an MP before heading to the private sector. Prior to that, he was the only finance minister Stephen Harper’s government had ever known. Though he suffered from a rare skin disease (bullous pemphigoid), Mr. Flaherty had insisted that his health was not a factor in why he decided to leave politics. Mr. Flaherty’s resignation was surprising to the many Canadians who thought he would stay on until the budget was officially balanced; his death comes as an absolute shock. In recognition of Mr. Flaherty’s two decades of public service, it’s well worth the time to take a look at some of his high points, missteps, and the personality behind the political persona: Bill Curry and Barrie McKenna’s penned an exhaustive overview of Ottawa’s response to the financial crisis in The Globe and Mail. The article opens with the Finance Minister’s recollection of what was going through his head on December 18, 2008 after two days of meetings with Canadian finance ministers and business leaders (during which he heard all about the economy’s deterioration): “A light went on in my head at about 2 o’clock in the afternoon: This is worse than I thought,” Mr. Flaherty recalls. When the second day of meetings wrapped up, he placed a call to Prime Minister Stephen Harper. “ ‘You know, we hoped we could run a deficit of fifteen or twenty billion dollars and manage the problem at that level. But I don’t think so,’ ” Mr. Flaherty says he told the Prime Minister. “ ‘It’s deeper and darker and it’s at all levels of business.’ ” On the other hand, in a piece that celebrates Mr. Flaherty’s work ethic and “middle-Canadian ordinariness,” Kevin Carmichael of The Globe and Mail also points out a few of Flaherty’s foibles in his first few years as Finance Minister: [M]ore spectacularly than many of his peers, Flaherty failed to see the recession coming. In the spring of 2008, he was boasting that Canada would avoid a deficit, not just that year but every year as long as he was in charge. “Our budget is balanced and I assure you it will remain balanced,” Flaherty told a New York audience that April. Even at the end of November, more than two months after the collapse of Lehman Brothers, he presented an economic statement that forecast a balanced budget. The claim was so ludicrous that it nearly brought down the government. Back in 2011, Marilla Stephenson of the Chronicle Herald reminded us that Flaherty had some comedy chops: He began Monday by confessing he might be recycling some of his material from what he says was the last speech he gave as Ontario’s attorney general, delivered at Kingston Penitentiary. ”I do apologize to those of you hearing me for the second time,” he deadpanned, before glibly adding, “Oh, I guess this is a Conservative gathering, not a Liberal gathering.”…Shamelessly recycling the old Mitt Romney joke from 2008, Flaherty told of how he asks his politician wife — Ontario PC deputy leader Christine Elliott — if she ever, in her wildest dreams, imagined they’d both hold high political office. ”Jim, you’re not in my wildest dreams,” she supposedly replies. When members of the Econowatch team at Maclean’s judged the finance minster’s performance on a variety of subjects, Mike Moffatt gave him the highest grade – an A minus – on trade policy: Flaherty’s 2009 budget was particularly strong, with the elimination of a number of tariffs on machinery and equipment, along with border improvements at Sarnia and Fort Erie, Ont. The elimination of tariffs on baby clothes and sporting equipment in the latest budget, while a relatively small measure, helps Canadian families and is a test case for future tariff reductions. While I am not a fan of how the General Preferential Tariff (GPT), which imposes lower-than-normal tariffs on imports from developing countries, was modernized, there is no question that the system was woefully out of date and needed to be addressed. Given Mr. Moffatt’s history with the Finance Department (re: the iPod Tax), he certainly had no reason to be an easy grader. Just as CIBC chief economist Avery Shenfeld observed that former Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney left Stephen Poloz in “a spot of bother,” The Globe and Mail’s David Parkinson writes about the work that remains to be done on the fiscal front, and questions the outgoing finance minister’s priorities: Canada’s economy has stalled as the recovery of the rest of the world has accelerated, leaving Mr. Flaherty’s successor to manage an economic underperformer. And Mr. Flaherty’s zeal for rapidly bringing the budget back into balance, even as a sputtering economy made a good case for continued government investment as a stimulus, may well have contributed to the loss of economic momentum. Compared with trying to shape fiscal policy in a way that will restore the long-term health of the economy, bashing the revenues and expenses into balance looks easy. And keeping the budget in balance after a significant belt-tightening period, particularly at a time when slow economic growth will lend little support from the revenue side, could also prove more difficult than merely achieving that first balance that Mr. Flaherty has apparently attained. Over at Maclean’s, Paul Wells says he wrote this Jim Flaherty profile in January “so it’d be handy for the day he quit” – and it certainly was. It wouldn’t be a stretch to suggest that Flaherty’s personal brand was stronger than the Conservative brand as a whole, an idea with which Mr Wells seems to concur: Flaherty matters so much to the fate of Canada’s Conservative government in 2014 because an election will follow in 2015. If the Conservatives—whether under Stephen Harper or his successor—manage to win a fourth straight election, it will be because their credibility as administrators outweighs their increasingly shopworn and scandal-bedraggled style. And the guarantor of their credibility is Jim Flaherty. Doug Porter, chief economist for the Bank of Montreal, tells The Globe and Mail that the next finance minister doesn’t have to be a clone of Mr. Flaherty…just someone who’s very much like him: I would say continuity (is what the market wants). Whoever steps into the role, they don’t have to be a carbon copy of Mr. Flaherty, nobody could be, but in terms of the broad policy thrust I think it was appropriate from a policy perspective, and most people would like to see that continue…I think this gives the next finance minister enough time, the next federal election is a little bit more than 18 months away. That’s a long time in politics. It would give the next finance minister a budget and the fall update as well, so I think they will have time to properly plant their feet. After Jim Flaherty tabled his last budget, the National Post’s John Ivison applauded the finance minister for looking out for some of the most vulnerable members of our society: Perhaps it’s because he has a son with developmental challenges but whatever the reason, he has been the champion for measures like the Disability Tax Credit and the Registered Disability Savings Plan in previous budgets. This time around, he has found money for vocational training for people with autism and labour market agreements to help people with disabilities get the skills they need. It may be an uncomfortable truth for Mr. Flaherty’s critics, who are only happy to believe he’s been cooking the books for the past nine years, that he’s also the man who’s done more than anyone to make life more affordable for some of the country’s most vulnerable citizens. Most of our work regarding Mr. Flaherty has centered on his gaffes on monetary policy – the time he referred to quantitative easing as “debt creations,” and when he opined that the Bank of Canada would be under pressure to raise rates this year. But while these forays into monetary policy were ill-advised, Mr. Flaherty never really crossed the line to the point where he threatened the Bank of Canada’s independence, as others have argued. REUTERS/Blair GableJim Flaherty speaks following the delivery of the budget on Parliament Hill in Ottawa February 11, 2014. And Mr. Flaherty’s legacy certainly won’t be defined by a few silly remarks about a subject largely outside of his purview. It is much more important to note that, in the aftermath of the global economic meltdown, the Canadian leadership didn’t really shoot the country in the foot, unlike our neighbours to the south or the British, who cut themselves off at the knees through crippling austerity measures. As a top economic official, and someone on the right-hand side of the political spectrum, Mr. Flaherty deserves credit for this. Though aggressive stimulus may not have been his first instinct, the finance minister proved that when an economic crisis strikes, we’re all Keynesians – or at least, that we all should be. It would be a stretch to say Mr. Flaherty learned from his mistakes, but his stint as finance minister ended on a much stronger note than it started on. With the passage of time, I am confident Canadians will think less and less about the “Halloween Massacre” following Mr. Flaherty’s move to squash income trusts, and more about the global economic meltdown that the nation mostly avoided during his tenure. The Chinese government may deserve more credit for this than our own, but I doubt this opinion is a widely-held one outside of certain circles, or that it will ever be. In recent months, the former finance minister’s humanity was on full display. When Mr. Flaherty was nearly moved to tears during a recent interview with CBC’s Amanda Lang, you’d need to have a heart of stone to fail to find some empathy for the man. It became easy to picture the young Jim Flaherty as the diminutive hockey player depicted in Kevin Carmichael’s article – a brash, feisty forward who battled hard in the corners at Princeton and wasn’t afraid to throw his weight around (or, if necessary, an elbow). In the political realm, Mr. Flaherty’s persistence was indomitable: he didn’t always (or often) meet his goals, and on several occasions, he had to choose new ones. But the finance minister’s fighting spirit was never vanquished, which made him a formidable adversary and a colleague who was difficult to work with. The most recent example of this is Mr. Flaherty’s decision to stand up to Prime Minister and break ranks on income-splitting, suggesting its economic merit was suspect. His move to criticize this Conservative policy plank will influence the debate in the upcoming 2015 election, just as his absence will radically alter the Canadian political landscape. In a government that is often criticized for speaking in monotone, Jim Flaherty will be remembered as a standalone figure. Rest in peace, Jim. FREE AppDownload
I used to go to Forbidden Planet in Manhattan every Wednesday to browse new comics. But since my recent discovery of Comics by comiXology, the company that Amazon just bought for an undisclosed amount, I can't see myself regularly going to a comic store ever again. ComiXology offers a well-designed app for buying and reading comic books from more than 75 publishers. It makes it easy to see new comics, which sell for the same price as in store, and it's easy to buy back issues, too. There are also always comics on sale, including collections for a great price. Although publishers like Marvel offer their own buying and reading apps, comiXology's may be the smoothest and it is the most comprehensive. "The Walking Dead"Reading comics on a mobile device is a surprisingly good experience. On an iPad you can view the whole page at only slightly smaller size than you would in print. You can also view comics frame-by-frame, which is the only way to do it on an iPhone, and this is a fine experience too. Digital comic collections won't increase in value like print comics in rare instances can, but they are much easier to store. Digital comics are also much easier to buy. Only last night I went on by far my biggest and most expensive comic book binge ever, not to mention my first-ever in-app purchase binge, buying issues 103 through 120 of "The Walking Dead." It cost $40. That series is so good and it is so easy to buy comic after comic that I couldn't help myself. It helps if you share an account with a friend who bought the first 102 comics and who will also enjoy anything you buy (probably in violation of the terms of agreement). Comics, in case you haven't picked one up recently, are better these days than ever, with many sophisticated stories aimed at adults and creative series even appearing at Marvel and DC, in addition to sometimes less creative mega-crossovers and movie tie-ins. Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through his personal investment company Bezos Expeditions. FREE AppDownload
It is almost impossible to emphasize enough how important it is to start saving for retirement early. One problem is that, even though many people want to begin saving right away, they are afraid of what will happen if there is another financial crisis that causes a massive drop in the value of their investments. Investing in the stock market can be extremely frustrating for those who look back on the big rally they missed — and nerve-racking for those who believe the may be putting money into the market at the top. The S&amp;P 500 has roared 177% from its March 9, 2009, low of 666 to its January 2014 high of 1,850. Thanks to scary USA Today cover stories and increasing crash chatter, everyone is worrying that we are at or near a market peak. And this has investors extremely hesitant to buy stocks for fear of a big decline or perhaps even a crash. Obsessing over the risk of a crash could lead to analysis paralysis. However, there is a basic investing strategy that can save investors from losing too much hair as they make the decision to buy stocks. It's called dollar-cost averaging. The stock market is great for investors who have the benefit of long-term investing horizons. It's also better suited for investors who aren't concerned about perfectly timing market tops and bottoms.  Having said that, taking a longer-term view is good for investors worried that they may be buying at the top of the market. A strategy called dollar-cost averaging can help reduce risks surrounding an asset falling in price. The concept is straightforward: You invest a fixed amount of money in an asset once every fixed period of time. If the asset's price drops, you will be getting more shares of the asset for the same amount of money, and so if and when the price recovers, you will have spent less per share, on average, than if you had bought the shares at their peak pre-fall price. Dollar-cost averaging isn't about losing money as the stock market falls. It's about buying increasing numbers of shares at cheaper prices, which means bigger returns during the rally. To see this in action, we came up with a simplified thought experiment. We considered what would have happened to an investor jumping into the stock market at the last peak: October 2007. This was arguably the worst time to buy. Our hypothetical investor puts $50 into an S&amp;P 500 index fund every month, starting in October 2007, before the beginning of the great recession. Here is what happened to the S&amp;P 500 starting at that peak: Business Insider/ Andy Kiersz The index dropped more or less steadily until the worst moments of the financial crisis in fall 2008, causing the full-on crash, and only began to turn around in March 2009. The key to our investor's experiment is that things stay consistent. No matter how stock prices move, the investor will always put $50 every month into the index fund. Based on changes in the value of the S&amp;P 500 index, we calculated our investor's price return, less the $50 monthly cost: Business Insider/ Andy Kiersz The value of our investor's portfolio as of January 2014 is $5,631.87. If he or she instead had taken $50 each month and held it as cash, the investor would have just $3,800. So the price return on this investment, even though the investor started at the last peak just before the market started to go downhill, is $1,831.87. This is a respectable 48% return. That averages out to about a 7.6% annual rate of return. To get another perspective on this, here is the percent gain or loss, compared to taking $50 each month and holding it as cash: Business Insider/ Andy Kiersz Things start out looking pretty dire, as the economy fell into its deep recession through mid-2009, with the S&amp;P 500 reaching a minimum in March of that year. At the low point, in March 2009, our investor would have been down about 34% compared to just holding cash. Because humans are often overly risk-averse, our hypothetical investor might have been tempted to abandon his or her investment plans during the bad months. That is, he or she might look at this chart and panic about the drop: Business Insider/ Andy Kiersz But if our investor sticks with the plan and keeps putting $50 in every month — even through dark times — once the market bounces back he or she ends up doing quite well: Business Insider/ Andy Kiersz Unfortunately, dollar-cost averaging isn't sexy. It's much sexier to sell at the top and buy at the bottom. Obviously, your returns would be much higher if you win the stock market lottery by perfectly timing the tops and bottoms of the market. However, almost everyone who tries to do this will find themselves losing money, and lots of it. If you are investing for the long haul, and can hang on through watching your portfolio's value drop temporarily in bad times, starting to invest in stocks, even near a peak, may not be as terrifying as it looks. The market has always bounced back sooner or later, so if you can hold on until later, don't panic. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Chip EastBillionaire fund manager John Paulson and dozens of other Hamptons homeowners signed a petition protesting the construction of a home that's a "threat" to the character and "peace and tranquility" of their neighborhood, the Wall Street Journal reports. According to the Journal, the letter writers are upset about a 5,531-square-foot mansion being built on a 1.2-acre piece of property at 483 Hill Street. Their complaint is that the large size and scale of the home doesn't fit with the surrounding homes.  The house is being constructed by former Wall Street commodities trader-turned-home builder Joe Farrell. Farrell, who has been dubbed the "King of McMansions" by his critics, has built hundreds of mansions on Long Island. It's a process that some have referred to as the "Farrellization" of the Hamptons.  Southampton's Board of Historic Preservation &amp; Architectural Review is expected make a decision later the month on the plans for the home.  Here's a bird's eye shot of the piece of property via Zillow: Zillow FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Tim WimborneA woman pauses in a traffic circle in Sydney on June 15, 2011, to look at a sculpture titled "Still life with stone and car" by U.S. artist Jimmie Durham.Things got ugly today, and the momentum stocks of the Nasdaq got it the worst. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
Real Men Real StyleWhat are the rules on buttoning a suit? Why are there even rules on buttoning suits? Well – the rules are easy enough to learn. I’ve laid them out in the suit buttoning infographic above. But why do we do this? Why even care about suit buttoning rules? 1) It sends a signal that you pay attention to the details. The vast majority of men who violate these rules do so because they do not wear a suit regularly.  These small rules are used by “those in the know” to identify other men “in the the know.”  It’s like a secret knock! Childish? Illogical? Perhaps, but it’s the reality. 2) In most situations, this makes a suit look better on a man.   A buttoned suit when standing cuts a cleaner silhouette – when seated unbuttoning allows you to sit more comfortable and prevent wrinkles and button stress/popping. In addition – many 3 button suits re not made to be buttoned on the top (called 2 1/2 suits) and the lower button is almost always in a position where it restricts movement (and provides no added silhouette forming features vs. a single button buttoned!). Important to note that we’re talking about SUITS here. Sports jackets are usually buttoned the same way but the rules are much more relaxed because it’s a more casual style.     Most modern suits have a single-breasted jacket. How to button it depends on two factors: the number of buttons the jacket has and where the buttons are in relation to your waist.   A jacket with a high stance has buttons at and above the natural waist, while a jacket with a low stance (more common these days) has its buttons at and below the waist.   One-button jackets   Single-breasted one-button jackets are becoming more common (and the classic choice for Black Tie) , and should always be buttoned when standing.   You may unbutton when seated. Two-button jackets Three-button jackets Conventional method is to always button the middle button and to button the top button if desired, while always leaving the bottom button undone. Fastening all three buttons at once looks stiff and should be avoided! Double-breasted jackets are almost always worn buttoned.  It’s very unusual to unbutton one. Double-breasted jackets are described with the total number of buttons on the suit front followed by the number of working buttons — so a “six-on-four” jacket has six buttons but only four buttonholes. Generally speaking you want to button all the buttons that have working buttonholes. If you plan to leave some buttons undone, it is most traditional to fasten the top button.  However, men who prefer a longer line have been leaving the lowest button undone instead for quite a few years now, including members of the British royal family, so you’re probably safe either way.   This article originally appeared at Real Men Real Style.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
DoubleLine FundsDoubleLine Funds' Jeffrey Gundlach just delivered a presentation titled 'What Hath QE Wrought' to investors at the New York Yacht Club. Gundlach argued that as the Fed unwinds its monthly asset purchase program it is likely to inflict some pain on the U.S. economy. Recently, there had been some chatter about interest rates rising faster than previously expected. But the latest FOMC minutes stated that "several participants noted that the increase in the median projection overstated the shift in the projections." And that this should not be "misconstrued as indicating a move by the Committee to a less accommodative reaction function." Gundlach says that if the Fed can successfully unwind its quantitative easing (QE) program it would be one of the greatest discoveries of our time. Note: Gundlach first delivered this presentation in March 2014.
The NASDAQ is down 3%. The S&amp;P500 is off 2%. So... what was the top?  AP Photo/Jae C. Hong Dogecoin Foundation  Rob Wile/Business Insider Vote! FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg.comiShares Biotechnology IndexThe stock market is selling off today, and once again it's being led down by the momentum stocks. One red-hot industry that continues to get smoked is biotechnology. The iShares Biotechnology Index (IBB) is down a whopping 6.1%. Among the big losers are Alexion Pharmaceuticals (-7.4%), Gilead Sciences (-6.8%), and Vertex Pharmaceuticals (-6.1%). "I frankly just don't know why biotech is off so much today," said Mark Schoenebaum, a biotech and pharmaceuticals analyst for ISI Group. The IBB index is now down 19% from its February high. The industry has seen huge numbers of IPOs in the last year, which has some folks wondering if this is just the bursting of a bubble. Meanwhile, the industry analysts have generally remained bullish on the industry based on the long-term profit potential of drugs in the developmental and regulatory pipeline. "Large cap biotech is now trading at a 2015 and 2016 PE discount to the S&amp;P500!" exclaimed Credit Suisse's Ravi Mehrotra and Koon Ching in a recent note to clients. FREE AppDownload
Want to start a fight on Wall Street? Don't insult someone's stock tip, insult their steakhouse. It's basically a banker's second office, and the best ones inspire a fierce, unparalleled loyalty. A month ago we asked our readers to vote for their favorite steakhouses in New York City across ten categories including cut of steak, martini, sides, service, and atmosphere. Roughly 650 Business Insider readers took the survey. One restaurant destroyed them all: a decades-old, family-owned-and-operated, no-frills steakhouse in Williamsburg of all places. Do you agree? Let us know in the comments. 228 W 52nd St. Facebook/GallaghersNYC 56 Beaver St. Facebook/Delmonicosnyc 210 E 46th St. Facebook/SparksSteakHouse 230 Park Ave., 131 East 54th St., 135 West 50th St., 25 Broad St., 120 West 45th St. Facebook/Bobby-Vans-Steakhouse-and-Grill 56 9th Ave. Daniel Goodman/Business Insider 72 W 36th St. Flickr/Edsel Little 4 Park Ave., 409 Greenwich St., 200 East 54th St., 250 West 41st St. foursquare, Naochin 111 East 22 St. Facebook/bltprime 1221 Ave. of the Americas Robert Libetti/ Business Insider 178 Broadway (Brooklyn) Daniel Goodman / Business Insider FREE AppDownload
U.S. stocks have taken a sharp turn lower today as the Japanese yen strengthens against the U.S. dollar. The S&amp;P 500 is down about 1.7%, the Dow Jones Industrial Average is off about 1.3%, and the Nasdaq is down 2.9%. In Europe, most equity indices closed lower as well. Spain's IBEX 35 was the worst performer there, down 1.4%. Notably, biotech stocks are selling off hard. Some other big losers in the U.S. include Bed, Bath &amp; Beyond (down more than 6%), Alexion Pharmaceuticals (down more than 5%), TripAdvisor (down almost 5%), and First Solar (down about 4%). The dollar is down 0.6% against the yen, trading near ¥101.40. The dollar is down about 2.5% against the yen since the release of the March jobs report in the U.S. on Friday. The release of weekly U.S. jobless claims figures this morning revealed that initial claims fell to the lowest level since May 2007 in the week ended April 5. Overnight, the release of Chinese trade data revealed figures on import and export growth in March that were both worse than expected. The charts below show movements in various markets. Across the top, from left to right, are S&amp;P 500 futures, the U.S. dollar-Japanese yen exchange rate, and the euro-U.S. dollar exchange rate. Across the bottom are gold futures, five-year U.S. Treasury note futures, and December 2015 eurodollar futures. Thinkorswim FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersCanada's Finance Minister Flaherty speaks during Question Period in the House of Commons on Parliament Hill in OttawaOTTAWA (Reuters) - Former Canadian Finance Minister Jim Flaherty passed away on Thursday, less than a month after stepping down after eight years in his post, Sun News Network reported, citing multiple unnamed sources. He had been suffering acutely from a rare skin disease but when he resigned he denied his resignation had anything to do with health. (Reporting by Randall Palmer; Editing by Jeffrey Hodgson) FREE AppDownload
Library Of CongressStocks are tanking again.  The sudden dives in recent weeks have taken the tech-heavy Nasdaq down 7% from its highs and the S&amp;P and Dow about 3% from their highs. Drops like that are no big deal.  But some signs suggest that this pullback — or another one sometime soon — could get much more severe. Why? Three basic reasons: Let's take those one at a time. First, price. Even after the recent drops, stocks appear to be very expensive.  The chart below is from Yale professor Robert Shiller. It shows the cyclically adjusted price-earnings ratio of the S&amp;P 500 for the last 130 years. As you can see, today's P/E ratio of 25X is miles above the long-term average of 15X. In fact, it's higher than at any point in the 20th century with the exception of the peaks of 1929 and 2000 (you know what happened after those). Robert Shiller, Business Insider   Does a high PE mean the market is going to crash? No. But unless it's "different this time," a high PE means we're likely to have lousy returns for the next seven to 10 years. By the way, in case some of your bullish friends have convinced you that Professor Shiller's P/E analysis is flawed, check out the chart below. It's from fund manager John Hussman. It shows six valuation measures in addition to the Shiller P/E that have been highly predictive of future returns over the past century. The left scale shows the predicted 10-year return for stocks according to each valuation measure. The colored lines (except green) show the predicted return for each measure at any given time. The green line is the actual return over the 10 years from that point (it ends 10 years ago.  Today, the average expected return for the next 10 years is slightly positive — about 2% a year. That's not horrible. But it's a far cry from the 10% long-term average. John Hussman, Hussman Funds So that's price. Next comes profit margins. One reason stocks are so expensive these days is that investors are comparing stock prices to this year's earnings and next year's expected earnings. In some years, when profit margins are normal, this valuation measure is meaningful. In other years, however — at the peak or trough of the business cycle — comparing prices to one year's earnings can produce a very misleading sense of value. Have a glance at this recent chart of profits as a percent of the economy. Today's profit margins are the highest in history, by a mile. Note that, in every previous instance in which profit margins have reached extreme levels — high and low — they have subsequently reverted to (or beyond) the mean. And when profit margins have reverted, so have stock prices. Business Insider, St. Louis FedAfter-tax profits as a percent of GDP. Now, you can tell yourself stories about why, this time, profit margins have reached a "permanently high plateau," as a famous economist remarked about stock prices in 1929. And you might be right. But as you are telling yourself these stories, please recognize that what you are really saying is "It's different this time." And "it's different this time" has been described as "the four most expensive words in the English language." And then there's Fed tightening. For the last five years, the Fed has been frantically pumping money into Wall Street, keeping interest rates low to encourage hedge funds and other investors to borrow and speculate. This free money, and the resulting speculation, has helped drive stocks to their current very expensive levels. But now the Fed is starting to "take away the punch bowl," as Wall Street is fond of saying. Specifically, the Fed is beginning to reduce the amount of money that it is pumping into Wall Street. To be sure, for now, the Fed is still pumping oceans of money into Wall Street. But, in the past, it has been the change in direction of Fed money-pumping that has been important to the stock market, not the absolute level.  In the past, major changes in direction of Fed money-pumping have often been followed by changes in direction of stock prices. Not always. But often. Let's go to the history ... Here's a look at the last 50 years. The blue line is the Fed Funds rate (a proxy for the level of Fed money-pumping.) The red line is the S&amp;P 500. We'll zoom in on specific periods in a moment. But just note that Fed policy goes through "tightening" and "easing" phases, just as stocks go through bull and bear markets. And sometimes these phases are correlated. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed Now, lets zoom in. In many of these time periods, you'll see that sustained Fed tightening has often been followed by a decline in stock prices. Again, not always, but often. You'll also see that most major declines in stock prices over this period have been preceded by Fed tightening.  Here's the first period, 1964 to 1980. There were three big tightening phases during this period (blue line) ... and three big stock drops (red line). Good correlation! Business Insider, St. Louis Fed Now 1975 to 1982, which overlaps a bit with the chart above. The Fed started tightening in 1976, at which point the market declined and then flattened for four years. Steeper tightening cycles in 1979 and 1980 were also followed by price drops. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed From 1978 to 1990, we see the two drawdowns described above, as well as another tightening cycle followed by flattening stock prices in the late 1980s. Again, tightening precedes crashes. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed And, lastly, 1990 to 2014. For those who want to believe that Fed tightening is irrelevant, there's good news here: A sharp tightening cycle in the mid-1990s did not lead to a crash! Alas, two other tightening cycles, one in 1999 to 2000 and the other from 2004 to 2007 were followed by major stock market crashes. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed One of the oldest sayings on Wall Street is "Don't fight the Fed." This saying has meaning in both directions, when the Fed is easing and when it is tightening. A glance at these charts shows why. On the positive side, the Fed's tightening phases have often lasted a year or two before stock prices peaked and began to drop. So even if you're convinced that sustained Fed tightening now will likely lead to a sharp stock-price pullback at some point, the bull market might still have a ways to run. So those are three reasons why the stock market could experience much more than a garden-variety "correction" — price, profit margins, and Fed tightening.  None of this means for sure that the market will crash or that you should sell stocks (I own stocks, and I'm not selling them.) It does mean, however, that you should be mentally prepared for the possibility of a major pullback and lousy long-term returns.  So if the recent stock weakness turns out to be the start of a major pullback, don't say you weren't warned! SEE ALSO: Anyone Who Thinks Stocks Will Go Up If The Economy Grows Should Read This Buffett Quote   FREE AppDownload
Looking at credit charts makes you a China bear, and here is the one that usually scares people*. Simon HinrichsenIt is a scary chart! Increases of private credit/GDP of this magnitude have generally meant trouble, EM or DM. An increase of 38% since the lows in November 2008 screams 'crisis'; in fact, it is hard to imagine that much credit expansion without over-leveraged balance sheets, non-productive investments, and a possible Minsky moment, by which one has to take on debt to cover interest rate expenditures [other credit charts of China are equally scary. Here are two from Goldman, and here is one with EMs ranked; as always, data is different from database to database!] So are we going that way? My bet is no. I wasn’t always this chipper about China. In fact, go back six months and I thought the above-mentioned chart spelled 'doom'. I don’t anymore, and I can explain why with two charts. First, as anyone who has studied the Asian Crash of 1997-8 will know, what made it close to inevitable was the combination of an overvalued currency (pegged) and huge borrowings in non-local currency denominated debt. Here is what I consider the best paper on that. This left the Tigers with the impossibility of remaining on pegged exchange rates, but if they devalued, their corporate and banking systems would collapse (and they did). Can this happen in China, which also does some currency management? No. Simon HinrichsenWhile short-term external debt has risen in dollars, as a percentage of GDP it has not (red line). This means that it is a very different beast we’re dealing with, insofar as China does not have to decide on its exchange rate on the basis of its banking and corporate balance sheets. Credit is mostly renminbi-denominated. So far, so good (and absolutely nothing new here). The second graph that has me rethinking my view on China is the credit/deposit ratio. Simon HinrichsenWhile credit has expanded enormously since 2008, so have deposits. Why? My theory (and I’d be very interested in opposite views) is that China's credit story is different because of its closed capital account. China’s capital account is closed, and has arguably not been opened much since 2008. Here for example is a paper "[studying] the renminbi (RMB) covered interest differential - an indicator of the effectiveness of capital controls. It is found that the differential is not shrinking over time and, in fact, appears larger after the global financial crisis than before. That is, capital controls in China are still substantial and effective." In other words, This Time Is Different because credit has shown up as deposits elsewhere in the system. This is both good and bad. Good because China is still a, errr, relatively authoritarian country, and if the Chinese government decides to pull the plug on credit expansion, the credit can be repaid with deposits elsewhere in the system. Simple bookkeeping, and China controls all entries. Bad because, well, where is that money? Is it places like here? Is it with LGTVs, which have just said, "we have done stimulus," and then just done nothing with the money except depositing it somewhere in the banking system? If that’s the case then credit expansion has probably meant less in real life, and more in debt statistics.  The crucial thing in my mind is just the fact that, because one cannot easily move money out of China, deposits actually have to show up somewhere when credit is created. This makes it (i) a whole new credit expansion story, and (ii) much more manageable. This has policy implications — most notably that China should not move too fast in liberalising its capital account, at least not before it is done tackling its credit situation. While money has stayed in China so far, it is not so certain that it would if China opened up. If money started to move out in spades, we could move closer to a 'classic' credit binge as the liability sides of balance sheets would have to be borrowed elsewhere. Nobody wants that. [Update: I should add, as George Magnus made me aware, this does not mean that I think China will do great going forward. Their credit expansion will require a tightening cycle, and a big one, and growth will slow. I just think they have way more tools in the box than most any other countries before.] * This theory is not at all original and you can find this kind of thinking elsewhere. This is just my write-up. Graphs are mine, though. Also again: data differs wildly in China so you can disagree with charts. FREE AppDownload
Take this Wall Street word challenge to test your knowledge of finance lingo. Produced by Sara Silverstein and Justin Gmoser. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
A massive recall of 2.2 million cars, connected to 13 deaths, will cost General Motors $1.3 billion in the first quarter of 2014, the automaker announced today. Most of the money will be used to pay for repairs and related courtesy transportation. The recall includes seven GM models made between 2003 and 2011, which may have faulty ignition switches that can flip out of the “run” position while the car is moving, turning off the engine, cutting some electric power, and disabling the airbags. GM said today it has informed the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration that it will add ignition lock cylinders to its recall of the 2.2 million older model cars. Meanwhile, it's still unclear why the automaker took so long to acknowledge and address the problem continue. CEO Mary Barra says GM has placed two engineers on paid leave, "an interim step" in its own investigation into the botched recall. On Tuesday, the government announced a $28,000 civil penalty against GM for failing to respond fully to a request for information related to the recall before the set deadline. It will continue to fine GM $7,000 per day until the automaker fully answers all the questions asked. Despite the recall charge, GM "expects to report solid core operating performance in the first quarter financial results," it said in a statement. FREE AppDownload
The analysts at Standard Chartered have just published a lengthy report on global trade. It included the map below, which is great for beginners. It highlights the major exports (as a percentage of total exports) for each of the world's big trading economies. Standard Chartered
REUTERS/Shannon StapletonNot all leaders follow their own advice. Zac Bissonnette explores that irony in his new book, "Good Advice from Bad People," which includes some fascinating examples from the business world. From infamous swindler Bernie Madoff's investing advice to leadership tips from Lehman Brothers CEO Richard Fuld, we've excerpted some of the highlights from Bissonnette's book. Fuld gave this speech as the CEO of Lehman Brothers, a year before his company's stock hit an all-time high. In 2008, Lehman entered the largest bankruptcy in history, after Fuld had led employees, investors, and lenders into dicey mortgages. It turns out he didn't know what he was talking about. In May 1985, Sculley joined Apple as its new CEO and quickly discovered that its founder, Steve Jobs, thought he was "bad for Apple." Sculley responded to this dissent by complaining to the board of directors and having Jobs stripped of all his management responsibilities. Five months later, Jobs left the company he created. Apple's board fired Sculley in 1993 after years of disappointing results. Jobs returned to Apple in 1996 and became CEO in 1997. The rebel that Sculley tried squashing, of course, transformed Apple from a has-been into the world's most profitable and innovative company. Madoff is the mastermind behind the largest Ponzi scheme in history. He fabricated trading records that showed high, steady, risk-free returns &mdash; the opposite of what came from his risky and unsuccessful trading strategies &mdash; and was able to lure in $65 billion from some of the world's most sophisticated investors. He was sentenced to 150 years in prison in 2009. Three weeks after giving that speech, Kozlowski resigned as CEO of Tyco after charges of tax evasion. As CEO, he got the nickname "Deal a Day Dennis" for the frequent acquisitions that led to consistent growth in revenue, earnings, and stock price. The company later admitted that they were used to artificially inflate earnings. Kozlowski was also charged with taking over $50 million in unauthorized bonuses, which he used to fund a gaudy, extravagant lifestyle. In 2005, he was sentenced to eight years in prison. "Chainsaw Al" personified the ruthlessly effective CEO in the early to mid-90s. He helped turn around a failing Scott Paper by trimming the fat, and when Sunbeam announced it hired him as CEO in 1996, the stock soared 50%. While it's good advice not to put limits on your dreams, Dunlap&nbsp;didn't respect the limits of the law. In 2002, it was discovered that at least $60 million of Sunbeam's 1997 profits were fraudulent, and&nbsp;as part of a settlement with the SEC, he agreed never to serve as an officer or director of a public company again. In the mid- to late 1990s, Pearlman was the king of the boy bands, having created the Backstreet Boys, *NSYNC, O-Town, and LFO. In 2006, he was exposed for having built his empire on a Ponzi scheme, owing investors $447 million. Unlike most Ponzi schemers, he actually had an enormously profitable business but decided to rip off his clients and investors with forged documents and inflated financials. By the time his book was released, the economy had taken a turn for the worse and his net worth was tanking as he fought bankruptcy for his overleveraged real estate empire, which Bissonnette asserts "was, of course, a product of his excessive cockiness." Trump bounced back from his downfall and reinvented himself as an omnipresent TV personality. Regardless of one's opinion of his business acumen, it's hard to argue that Trump has ever followed his own advice about being humble. When Whitmore took over as CEO of Kodak in 1990, he embraced a culture that was the complete opposite of the entrepreneurial approach he preached. During a meeting with Bill Gates, presumably about finding ways to renew the company as it was losing market share to Polaroid, Whitmore fell asleep. Kodak pushed him out of the company in 1993 for failing to cut costs and boost earnings. In 1986, an 18-year-old Minkow became the youngest CEO of a publicly traded company with his carpet cleaning company ZZZZ Best. Just a year later it turned out that he was just another Ponzi schemer, who had lost $100 million of investors' money and was sent to jail. He was released early from prison in 1995, emerging as an evangelical pastor and fraud investigator. But this zeal for justice turned out to be another front, and Minkow went back to prison in 2011 for securities fraud. FREE AppDownload
Michael Kelley/Business Insider Following reports of insanely expensive iPhones in Brazil, we stopped by an Apple vendor in São Paulo to see for ourselves. It's no joke. A 64 gigabyte iPhone 5S costs 3,599 reais, or about $1,637, making it the most expensive iPhone in the world. The same product costs $849 out of contract in the U.S. — still expensive, but only around half as much. Michael Kelley/Business InsiderA 16 gigabyte iPhone 5s costs 2,799 reais, or about $1,275. *Brazil's ludicrous prices, which extend beyond Apple products, can be attributed to transportation bottlenecks, protectionist policies, a history of high inflation, a dysfunctional tax system and an overvalued currency. The Apple reseller we went to in São Paulo is located in the Bourbon shopping center, an upscale mall across the street from a hotel called "The American Loft." It's called iPlaces, and there are other locations all over the city. We didn't see anyone buy an iPhone 5s or iMac (before we were kicked out for taking pictures), but the store seems to get a lot of foot traffic. Brazil is in the top 10 smartphone markets with almost 50 million users, so the demand is there. Nevertheless, the iPhone 5S (which costs 2,799 reais  / $1,274 for the cheapest model) is way too expensive for most people in a country where the average wage is about 2,000 reais / $910 per month. Now for more shocking Apple prices: Michael Kelley/Business InsiderA standard 13-inch MacBook Air (128GB) costs $2,091in São Paulo. *Editor's note: São Paulo resident Roberto Macedo sent us a note in response to the article, and we have published part of it below with light editing: "Forget about transportation bottlenecks, protectionist policies, a history of high inflation, a dysfunctional tax system and currency, all of that would make at worst case scenario a price 50% higher. There is something else beyond 'Brazil Cost,' there is the 'Brazil's Profit' (Lucro Brasil). What is Brazil's Profit? It is the price that Brazillians pay for something just because it is expensive. Why sell for a lower price if you can sell all your production at a higher price? This started with the crazy coin fluctuation in the early '90s. All companies got used to setting the price fairly high so as not to lose money on overnight coin rate changes. After Real currency, the fluctuation ended, but the prices stayed on the upper side, with high margins, and companies saw that people kept buying. Check car prices for instance. Brazil's profit rate is about double the rest of world.  Most Brazilian people aren't critics and don't engage even with they believe that something isn’t fair. This applies to prices as well, and with the long-term culture that something high-tech or a new car is a social status indicator, I know that this exists in the whole world, but maybe not like here in Brazil." FREE AppDownload
Reuters, Mike TheilerJP Morgan CEO Jamie Dimon has a message to all those CEOs out there who say "uncertainty" is holding them back from investing in their businesses... Get over it. In his annual shareholder letter, Dimon devotes a little time to explaining something he sees as a phenomena of our post financial crisis world — the too-scared-CEO. You see them everywhere. Even billionaire Sam Zell has said he needs an 'all clear' to get back to business since the world is so scary. Well Jamie Dimon is here to say that big boys don't need that kind of hand holding. From his letter: "It seems that just about everyone has become a risk expert and sees risk behind every rock. They don’t want to miss it – like they did in 2008. They want to be able to say, “I told you so.”And, therefore, they identify everything as risky."  Here are a few facts that support the uncertainty and risk aversion hypothesis: • Corporations seem unduly conservative. We already have mentioned how much excess cash they hold.  • U.S. gross capital formation as a percentage of GDP has been at lower levels in the last five years than it has been for more than 40 years. Capital expenditures ultimately are the drivers of productivity, jobs and growth.  • The top 1,000 companies account for approximately 50% of all capital expenditures. One reason that large companies may be more conservative in their use of cash and debt is that rating agencies are much tougher on ratings. In 1993, the number of AAA and AA issuers was 413, and in 2013, that number was 147. Today, the companies are bigger, basic financial metrics (i.e., debt to equity and margins) essentially are the same and defaults are lower. I have defended the rating agencies’ right to their opinions, but it seems they also may have largely overreacted to the financial crisis.  • Finally, one of the great aspects of the American system is that it is okay to fail and to try again. But even that seems to be diminishing as failure, other than in Silicon Valley, is severely punished. Hear that everyone? That's supposed to be an "all clear." FREE AppDownload
AP PhotoJPMorgan CEO Jamie Dimon's annual shareholder letter is out, and in it he has highlighted what he sees as the reasons why the United States is poised for greatness, and what's holding it back. The list spans everything from the housing recovery and the energy sector to consumer spending and political infighting. This kind of specificity is what makes Dimon's letters so great that Warren Buffett reads them every year. Dimon doesn't just use the blanket CEO "uncertainty" excuse for why growth is tepid, he prefers to get into the weeds. "Of course there is risk in the system," he writes "There always was, and there always will be. As a company, we need to be prepared for even the unlikely and unpredictable bad outcomes. But like everything else, it helps to put risk into perspective." Now for what's going right in the United States: • Consumers are in increasingly good financial shape. Over 6 million more Americans are working since the depths of the financial crisis. The amount of consumer income that they spend to service their debt is the lowest it has been since it has been recorded, dating back to 1980. And Americans’ net worth has been increasing, along with stock market prices and the value of homes. • Housing has turned the corner in most markets. We’ve moved from a buyer’s market to a seller’s market in four years, construction of new homes has steadily improved and home values have increased nationally more than 19% in the past two years due to the strengthening economy. • Capital markets are wide open – credit, for the most part, is flowing freely. (The only exception I see here is that it still is too hard to get a mortgage for many people.) • Corporations and middle market companies are in extremely good shape. Corporate cash balances now are 11.4% of assets, up from 5.2% in 2000. • The banking system is almost fully recovered, and banks are better capitalized than they have been in 60 years. Banks had average equity to assets of 11.1% in 2013 – the highest it’s been since 1950. And banks in total have $10 trillion in deposits vs. $7.6 trillion in loans today – the lowest loan-to-deposit ratio since 1970. In addition, banks currently hold HQLA of approximately $2 trillion. • Consumers are benefiting from abundant and less costly oil and gas due to technological advances in extraction. And what's wrong with the United States: • Concerns around excessive regulation and red tape – I travel around the U.S. all the time, and this is a loud and growing complaint that I hear from businesses, small to large, across virtually all industries. • Whether you were for or against “Obamacare,” when massive changes to such an important part of the American economy are made, it does create uncertainty for many businesses. • The inability to face our fiscal reality is a concern. I believe that if we had adopted some form of the Simpson-Bowles plan to fix the debt, it would have been extremely beneficial to the economy. • Entitlement spending – which now is 60% of federal spending and is growing – is crowding out infrastructure spending and spending on initiatives like research and development and training. • In addition, uncertainty about the ultimate outcome of the Fed’s unconventional QE policy (and our inability to deal with some fiscal issues) makes future Fed policy more complicated. • Political gridlock resulting not only in our government shutdown but in two debt ceiling crises was damaging and irresponsible. • U.S. corporate tax policy is hugely inefficient and, at the margin, drives American capital overseas. • U.S. immigration policy (which we should fix for moral reasons alone) also is driving brains and entrepreneurs overseas. Most economists think a good immigration policy could accelerate U.S. economic growth by 0.2% right away and by 2% over a 10-year period. This, alone, could create 3 million jobs. FREE AppDownload
Federal Reserve Board, Morgan Stanley ResearchFrom a recent presentation given by Morgan StanleySince the financial crisis, the Federal Reserve has been buying up bonds and other securities in its efforts to keep interest rates low and put cash in people's hands. While this has arguably been beneficial for the economy, the immense presence of the Fed has some folks freaked out. "The Fed’s balance sheet has gone from $1 trillion in 2007 to an estimated $4.5 trillion by the end of this year," noted JP Morgan CEO Jamie Dimon in his annual letter to shareholders. "Some feel the Fed’s QE policies have been too aggressive and ultimately will be inflationary. Additionally, there is a fear that ending QE will be risky and complex, particularly since QE has little precedence." "We cannot predict the future," he added. But he did offer some context in his efforts to calm down the worry-worts. From his letter: The value of all financial assets in America today is approximately $90 trillion. When the Fed stops buying securities, the $4.5 trillion it owns will run off to $2 trillion by 2020 simply from paydowns of principal in Treasuries and mortgages. While it is not clear what the new steady state will be – the Fed probably will not need to take its balance sheet all the way back down to $1 trillion. Even if the Fed eventually needs to sell some securities, the American economy should be able to handle it easily – particularly in a strong economy. In other words, Dimon is telling us that the Fed could conceivably trim $3.5 trillion off of its balance sheet, but that amount would be pretty small relative to the $90 trillion domestic financial market. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS / Gus RuelasRupert Murdoch, April 29, 2013. Media mogul Rupert Murdoch credited his Fox News cable network with having "saved" the Republican Party in an extensive interview with Fortune published Thursday.  Murdoch discussed Fox News' relationship to the GOP when Fortune's senior editor-at-large Patricia Sellers asked him about "a view that Fox News has contributed in a big way to the political discontent in the U.S., degraded the political process, and maybe, in spotlighting the Tea Party, even hurt the Republican Party?"  "I think it has absolutely saved it," Murdoch said of the his network and the GOP. "It has certainly given voice and hope to people who didn't like all that liberal championing thrown at them on CNN. By the way, we don't promote the Tea Party. That's bullshit. We recognize their existence." Murdoch also talked about his recent divorce, the future of his money-losing New York Post newspaper, and the hacking scandal that wracked his British papers in recent years in the interview. Read it in full here.  FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Bitcoin prices fell as low as $403 Thursday morning as Chinese banks began sending out shutdown notices to Bitcoin businesses, CoinDesk's Jon Southurst reports. That level hasn't been seen since November. Prices were down more than 7% just on the day. "Exchanges will stop account recharging via bank accounts between now and 15th April," Southurst writes. For the past couple of weeks, rumors have been swirling that the PBOC would shut down all Bitcoin-related money transfers. China comprises. The volume share on BTC China has fallen to 8%; as recently as December it was the world's largest. Chart: CoinDesk FREE AppDownload
Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg) The chart above shows the extreme rise in prices of food imported into the U.S. from other countries in March, according to data released by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics this morning. "Prices for foods, feeds, and beverages rose 3.7 percent in March, the largest monthly gain for the index since a 4.3-percent increase in March 2011," said the BLS in a press release. "The March 2014 advance was driven by a 14.0-percent rise in fruit prices, the largest one-month increase for that index since the index was first published monthly in December 1993." Food inflation has become a big story this year as a confluence of factors have caused a broad surge in prices across the agricultural and livestock commodity complex. A fungus is spreading across coffee crops in South America, a debilitating virus is sweeping across the U.S. hog population, and geopolitical tensions in Russia and Ukraine are giving wheat prices a boost. Add in expectations for extreme weather, and you get an explosive cocktail of supply constraints pushing everything higher. FREE AppDownload
ScreenshotLaurene Powell JobsLaurene Powell Jobs, the widow of Apple founder Steve Jobs, was among the high-profile donors who gave to a super PAC dedicated to supporting former U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton's potential run for president in 2016.  An official familiar with the fundraising numbers of Ready for Hillary told Business Insider that Jobs was among 10 donors who gave $25,000 — the highest amount recorded — to the super PAC during the first quarter of 2014. Also in that group were Sharon Elghanayan Corzine, the wife of former New Jersey Gov. Jon Corzine; Tim Gill, the founder of Quark and an LGBT rights activist; Glen Fukushima, a former U.S. trade representative and a senior fellow at the Center for American Progress; Fabian Nunez, the former California Assembly speaker; and John and Marcia Goldman, the philanthropists who donated $105,000 to pay for the Batkid fantasy that gripped San Francisco for a day last fall. In total, Ready for Hillary raised more than $1.7 million during the first quarter of 2014, the group said Thursday. The vast majority — 98 percent — of the more than 32,000 donations were $100 or less, the kind of contributions on which the group is focused. More than 9,500 of those donations were a symbolic contribution of $20.16. Though the PAC is dedicated to preparing for a potential Clinton presidential bid, Ready For Hillary is not directly affiliated with Clinton.  The group said Thursday it received contributions from all 50 states last quarter, as well as the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. Since its April 2013 launch, Ready for Hillary has raised about $5.75 million from more than 80,000 contributions and 55,000 individual donors.   FREE AppDownload
It's now a question of how and where, not if, solar becomes a dominant force in energy markets. AllianceBernstein's Michael Parker and Flora Chang published a note last week with the following chart showing how rapidly the cost of solar on a real-dollars-per-million-BTU equivalent basis has, in many instances, come to match that of conventional fuels.  Nothing else looks like this. And the title of the chart, Welcome to the Terrordome, reflects this almost violent decline in solar pricing.  AllianceBernsteinThe authors write: Exhibit 2 is the chart the solar industry has been working towards for 60 years. Solar is now – in the right conditions – cheaper than oil and Asian LNG on an MMBTU basis. Yes, we are using utility- scale solar costs in developing markets with lots of sun. But that describes the growth markets for global energy today. For these markets solar is just cheap, clean, convenient, reliable energy. And since it is a technology, it will get even cheaper over time. Fossil fuel extraction costs will keep rising. There is a massive global market for cheap energy and that market is oblivious to policy changes at the NDRC, MITI, the EU or the CPUC. Solar still makes up only a tiny fraction of overall energy usage on an absolute basis — about 0.17%. But it's an unstoppable trend. For now, this minuscule starting point is great for investors, Parker and Chang say, because it will continue to be more attractive than oil and gas prices, which are set to keep climbing. Bernstein's notoriously bullish energy team forecasts an oil price of $150 by 2020. Parker also explains that if utilities try to respond, growth in the storage market will accelerate.  As solar costs fall, the price that end markets will pay for solar energy is set by oil and remains unchanged. The solar industry (upstream and downstream) collects all of the value created by improvements in the technology. The behavior from here seems clear: the solar industry will expand. Retaliatory steps from distribution utilities will increase the market for cost-effective battery storage. This becomes – initially – a secondary market for battery technologies being developed for the auto sector. A failed battery technology in the auto sector (too hot, too heavy, too rigid a form factor) might well be perfect for the home energy storage market.... with an addressable end market of 2 billion backyards.  But there's another, Terrordome-esque scenario Parker outlines, which he calls global energy deflation. It would be great news for consumers, but investors would get killed. He uses the crude forward curve as a reference point: AllianceBernstein He writes: ...the risk is that I am being too conservative. It may be that oil and gas producers sitting on large reserves will not wait for deflating energy prices a decade from now before changing behavior. Rather, the expectation of energy deflation may be enough. If the downward sloping forward curve is ever accepted as permanent, rational behavior from energy producers will guarantee it is so. Sitting on oil and gas reserves for the benefit of generations yet to come ceases to be a rational strategy if that reserve represents a depreciating rather than an appreciating asset. This is the hidden flaw with the "equal and opposite/ too small to matter" formulation. Ultimately what may kill the solar sector – and every other part of the energy market – for equity investors is not renewable technology and battery storage turning into behemoths, but the realization of that future as inevitable.  Actually, solar utilities seem to have been around for longer than 60 years. We dug through the Library of Congress' image archives to find a solar water heater dated 1929 (PDF):  LOC   FREE AppDownload
Reuters, Enrique MarcarianA demonstrator stands in front of row of gendarmes as the protestors block a highway during one-day nationwide strike in Buenos Aires April 10, 2014. For the next 24 hours protestors will attempt to completely shut down Argentina. The Workers and Transport Unions have joined forces to engage in a general strike in the country. This will impact all public transportation — domestic and international flights, trains, buses — food transport, garbage collection, and bars and restaurants. Major roads into the capital, Buenos Aires, have been completely blocked. In February, independant economist estimated that Argentina's inflation rate has rose to 34.9% from the same time last year. Consumer prices rose 7.1% since the beginning of the year even after the government devalued the peso 19%. Meanwhile, wages have not risen — and that is what these strikes are all about. They blame the Fernandez administration for the country's economic malaise. Its tenure in office, however, will not end until late 2015. Labor leader Hugo Moyano said the government wants to discredit the strikers, but that they will cause no violent incidents. Jorge Capitanich, the head of President Cristina Fernandez's Cabinet, made it sound like these strike would hold the country hostage. Their actions, he said, were "like going back to the Middle Ages with feudal lords." This is perhaps the administration's most pressing problem, but there's much more. This week the International Monetary Fund issued a warning to Argentina. The country's economy is in a state of "high uncertainty," it said, and would likely grow a mere 0.5% (last year it grew 4.3%).  It compared Argentina to its protest-plagued, shortage-rife fellow South American country, Venezuela. The Fernandez administration shot back that the IMF's estimates were ideologically driven. “Fortunately, ex president Néstor Kirchner made a decision and that was to have autonomy in economic decisions,” said Cabinet head Jorge Capitanich in a speech following the report. "“We owe not a dollar to the IMF and it cannot condition the sovereign managing of Argentina's economic policy anymore.”  He went on to say that the IMF caused Argentina's worst fiscal crisis in history, referring to the 2001-2002 period when the country had five presidents in two weeks. These protestors are living in the now, though. So they think pretty differently. FREE AppDownload
Take one look at the stock market and you might be tempted to scream "bubble!"After all, the S&amp;P 500 has now blasted through levels we've seen during the dotcom bubble and the housing/credit bubble. However, taking a brief glance at some indexes is no way sniff out a bubble. In a recent note to clients, Javed Jussa and the quantitative strategy team at Deutsche Bank take a deep look into the various bubble indicators. "Our findings suggest no strong evidence of a technology bubble," they conclude. Among other things, they look at trends in venture capital, which doesn't get enough attention among those following the public stock markets. Venture capital is the capital invested in very young companies long before they go public, assuming they do go public. It's money for startups. "Interestingly, during the Dot-Com bubble, venture capital firms were funding more telecommunication and networking equipment companies," wrote the analysts. "However, more recently, venture capital firms are funding software companies. In fact, more recently, there is a significant increase in funding provided by venture capital firms for software companies. This data is in line with recent headlines and hints at a potential bubble in private software companies." Okay, so that's the mix of investments. But what about the actual dollar amount being invested in these risky companies? "[T]he amount of cash for equity investments by venture capital firms was far greater during the Dot-Com Bubble," they note citing data from The MoneyTree Report from PricewaterhouseCoopers and the National Venture Capital Association. During the height of the dotcom bubble, venture capital deals totaled north of $25 billion per quarter. Since then, the quarterly number has trended between $6 billion and $9 billion per quarter. In Q4 2013, it was $8.369 billion. So, while we may be hearing a lot of anecdotes about venture capital, that actual numbers don't tell us we're in a bubble. Deutsche Bank NOTE: We previously reported that venture capital funding was $8.369 billion in Q4 2014. This date has been corrected to Q4 2013. FREE AppDownload
Solar power has won the global argument. Photovoltaic energy is already so cheap that it competes with oil, diesel and liquefied natural gas in much of Asia without subsidies. Roughly 29pc of electricity capacity added in America last year came from solar, rising to 100pc even in Massachusetts and Vermont. "More solar has been installed in the US in the past 18 months than in 30 years," says the US Solar Energy Industries Association (SEIA). California's subsidy pot is drying up but new solar has hardly missed a beat. The technology is improving so fast - helped by the US military - that it has achieved a virtuous circle. Michael Parker and Flora Chang, at Sanford Bernstein, say we entering a new order of "global energy deflation" that must ineluctably erode the viability of oil, gas and the fossil fuel nexus over time. In the 1980s solar development was stopped in its tracks by the slump in oil prices. By now it has surely crossed the threshold irreversibly. The ratchet effect of energy deflation may be imperceptible at first since solar makes up just 0.17pc of the world's $5 trillion energy market, or 3pc of its electricity. The trend does not preclude cyclical oil booms along the way. Nor does it obviate the need for shale fracking as a stop-gap, for national security reasons or in Britain's case to curb a shocking current account deficit of 5.4pc of GDP. But the technology momentum goes only one way. "Eventually solar will become so large that there will be consequences everywhere," they said. This remarkable overthrow of everything we take for granted in world energy politics may occur within "the better part of a decade". GTM Research If the hypothesis is broadly correct, solar will slowly squeeze the revenues of petro-rentier regimes in Russia, Venezuela and Saudi Arabia, among others. Many already need oil prices near $100 a barrel to cover their welfare budgets and military spending. They will have to find a new business model, or fade into decline. The Saudis are themselves betting on solar, investing more than $100bn in 41 gigawatts (GW) of capacity, enough to cover 30pc of their power needs by 2030 rather than burning fossil fuel needed for exports. Most of the Gulf states have comparable plans. That will mean more crude - ceteris paribus - washing into a deflating global energy market. Clean Energy Trends says new solar installations overtook wind turbines worldwide last year with an extra 36.5GW. China alone accounted for a third. Wind is still ahead with 2.5 times old capacity but the "solar sorpasso" will be reached in 2021 as photovoltaic (PV) costs keep falling. The US National Renewable Energy Laboratory says scientists can now capture 31.1pc of the sun's energy with a 111-V Solar Cell, a world record but soon to be beaten again no doubt. This will find its way briskly into routine use. Wind cannot keep pace. It is static by comparison, a regional niche at best. A McKinsey study said the average cost of installed solar power in the US across all sectors has dropped to $2.59 from more than $6 a watt in 2010. It expects this fall to $2.30 by next year and $1.60 by 2020. This will put solar within "striking distance" of coal and gas, it said. Solar cell prices have already collapsed so far that other "soft costs" now make up 64pc of residential solar installation in the US. Germany has shown that this too can be slashed, partly by sheer scale. It is hard to keep up with the cascade of research papers emerging from brain-trusts in North America, Europe and Japan, so many brimming with optimism. The University of Buffalo has developed a nanoscale microchip able to capture a "rainbow" of wavelengths and absorb far more light. A team at Oxford is pioneering use of perovskite, an abundant material that is cheaper than silicon and produces 40pc more voltage. One by one, the seemingly intractable obstacles are being conquered. Israel's Ecoppia has just begun using robots to clean the panels of its Ketura Sun park in the Negev desert without the use of water, until now a big constraint. It is beautifully simple. Soft microfibers sweep away 99pc of the dust each night with the help of airflows. Professor Michael Aziz, at Harvard University, is developing a flow-battery with funding from the US Advanced Research Projects Agency over the next three years that promises to cut the cost of energy storage by two-thirds below the latest vanadium batteries used in Japan. He said the technology gives us a "fighting chance" to overcome the curse of intermittency from wind and solar power, which both spike and drop off in bursts. "I foresee a future where we can vastly cut down on fossil fuel use." Even thermal solar is coming of age, driven for now by use of molten salts to store heat and release power hours later. California opened the world's biggest solar thermal park in February in the Mojave desert - the Ivanpah project, co-owned by Google and BrightSource Energy - able to produce power for almost 100,000 homes by reflecting sunlight from 170,000 mirrors onto boilers that generate electricity from steam. Ivanpah still relies on subsidies but a new SunPower project in Chile will go naked, selling 70 megawatts into the spot market. Deutsche Bank say there are already 19 regional markets around the world that have achieved "grid parity", meaning that PV solar panels can match or undercut local electricity prices without subsidy: California, Chile, Australia, Turkey, Israel, Germany, Japan, Italy, Spain and Greece, for residential power, as well as Mexico and China for industrial power. This will spread as battery storage costs - often a spin-off from electric car ventures - keep dropping. Sanford Bernstein says it may not be long before home energy storage is cheap enough to lure households away from the grid en masse across the world. Utilities that fail to adapt fast will face "disaster". Solar competes directly. Each year it is supplying a bigger chunk of peak power needs in the middle of the day when air conditioners and factories are both at full throttle. "Demand during what was one of the most profitable times of the day disappears," said the report. They cannot raise prices to claw back lost income. That would merely accelerate what they most fear. They are trapped. Michael Liebreich, from Bloomberg New Energy Finance, says we can already discern the moment of "peak fossil fuels" around 2030, the tipping point when the world starts using less coal, oil and gas in absolute terms, but because they cannot compete, not because they are running out. This is a remarkable twist of history. Just six years ago we faced an oil shock with crude trading at $148. The rise of "Chindia" and the sudden inclusion of 2bn consumers into the affluent world seemed to be taxing resources to breaking point. Now we can imagine how China will fuel its future fleet of 400m vehicles. Many may be electric, charged by PV modules. For Germany it is a bitter-sweet vindication. The country sank €100bn into feed-in tariffs or in solar companies that blazed the trail, did us all a favour, and mostly went bankrupt, displaced by copy-cat competitors in China. The Germans have the world's biggest solar infrastructure, but latecomers can now tap futuristic technology. For Britain it offers a reprieve after 20 years of energy drift. Yet the possibility of global energy deflation raises a quandary: should the country lock into more nuclear power stations with strike-prices fixed for 35 years? Should it spend £100bn on offshore wind when imported LNG might be cheaper long hence? For the world it portends a once-in-a-century upset of the geostrategic order. Sheikh Ahmed-Zaki Yamani, the veteran Saudi oil minister, saw the writing on the wall long ago. "Thirty years from now there will be a huge amount of oil - and no buyers. Oil will be left in the ground. The Stone Age came to an end, not because we had a lack of stones, and the oil age will come to an end not because we have a lack of oil," he told The Telegraph in 2000. Wise old owl.  FREE AppDownload
Och-ZiffThirty-one-year-old Och-Ziff hedge-fund trader James "Jimmy" Levin took home $119 million in compensation for 2013, Forbes reports. According to an SEC filing, Levin was compensated primarily in stock. He did not receive "any salary or other cash compensation except for certain limited perquisites of the type that we have customarily paid to all of our executive managing directors," the filing said. Levin, the head of a 14-person credit team for Daniel Och's Och-Ziff, crushed it in 2012. His $7.5 billion bet on "structured credit" debt instruments earned the firm $2 billion before fees, The Wall Street Journal reported at the time. Levin, now also an executive managing director, joined Och-Ziff in 2006. Before that, he worked in distressed debt and statistical arbitrage investing at Dune Capital Management and Sagamore Hill Capital Management.  He holds a degree in computer science from Harvard. He first met Och when he was a summer-camp counselor. Levin taught Och's son how to water-ski, the Journal reported.  FREE AppDownload
Part of being an activist investor is convincing the board of a company that changes must be made. Some people do it wrong, some people do it right. From Joseph Stilwell, founder of Stilwell Value Partners, we have an example of how it is done right. Stilwell launched an activist campaign against Wisconsin-based Harvard Illinois Bancorp in 2012. According to government filings, as of last month, Stilwell owns about 9.6% of the bank's stock. (Via @john_hempton) As such, Joseph Stilwell felt it was his duty inform his fellow shareholders that the Chairman of the Board of Harvard Illinois Bancorp apparently completely passed out at the last shareholder meeting — and that none of his fellow boardmembers woke him up because... Who knows? Check out a screenshot of the letter below. SEC, Schedule 14a, Stilwell v You can't say you don't love that "winning with teamwork" is painted on the wall there. Sweet dreams, bud.
Deep-discount retail chain Family Dollar announced quarterly earnings that missed expectations as comparable store sales fell 3.8% during the most recently completed quarter. The stock price is falling in pre-market trading. This might be bad news for FDO shareholders. But it could be a good indicator for the economy. In a presentation earlier this year, management included a chart highlighting how earnings growth tended to accelerate after bad things happened in the world. This is not news to people who follow the retail business. When economic conditions get tight, cash-strapped consumers trade down and shop more discriminately for deals. Check out this sparsely annotated chart highlights 9/11 and the housing crisis. Family Dollar FREE AppDownload
Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg)Initial claims filed for unemployment insurance fell to 300,000 in the week ended April 5, the lowest level since May 2007.  Economists expected claims to edge down to 320,000 from the previous week's upwardly revised 332,000 reading. Continuing claims filed in the week ended March 29 fell to 2.776 million from an upwardly revised 2.838 million in the previous week. Ian Shepherdson, chief economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics, warns that the number may have been affected by favorable seasonal adjustments due to the shifting timing of the Easter holiday. "We'd love to proclaim these numbers as definitive evidence of a real downshift in the trend in claims, but it's even riskier than usual to put too much weight on single observations at this time of year," says Shepherdson. "The shifting date of the Easter holiday from year-to-year causes problems for the seasonal adjustments, so we need to see a few more weeks' numbers before we can be sure where the trend now stands." Nonetheless, Shepherdson acknowledges that the trend is lower. "Firings are low and that is good news for two reasons," says Neil Dutta, head of U.S. economics at Renaissance Macro Research. "First, while the relationship is not perfect, at a minimum, it implies a steady pace of payroll growth. Second, if firings are low, workers are presumably less worried about losing their jobs, which implies a decline in precautionary savings. That's good news for consumption. But, we know the labor market is not tightening! Give me a break." U.S. Treasuries and gold have been giving up gains since the release, and the dollar is advancing. FREE AppDownload
Icahn will pull his proxy fight that called for PayPal to spin out of eBay. In exchange, eBay will appoint David Dorman as an independent director.  This seems like a big win for eBay. Icahn had been shredding eBay's board since February.  Nothing major is going to come of Icahn's public fury, though. Just an extra board member.  Here's the release: SAN JOSE, CA (April 10, 2014) — eBay Inc. (Nasdaq: EBAY) today announced that it has reached an agreement with investor Carl Icahn, ending their proxy contest for the company’s upcoming annual meeting of stockholders. Mr. Icahn is withdrawing both his proposal to separate the company’s PayPal business and his two nominees to the company’s Board of Directors. The company said it has agreed at Mr. Icahn’s suggestion to appoint business executive David Dorman as an independent director to its Board of Directors. This will expand the number of independent directors to 10 on the 12-member board. The other two directors are eBay Inc. Founder and Chairman Pierre Omidyar, the company’s largest shareholder, and company President and CEO John Donahoe. Dorman, 60, is a Founding Partner of Centerview Capital Technology. He brings over 38 years of senior executive, operational, board and investment experience. He is currently Chairman of the Board of CVS Caremark Corporation. Dorman was a board member of Motorola, Inc. from 2006 and served as Chairman of the board from 2008 until 2012. Upon the separation of Motorola Mobility and Motorola Solutions, Dorman became lead independent director of Motorola Solutions. He also serves on the boards of YUM! Brands, Inc., and the Georgia Tech Foundation in Atlanta. Prior to Centerview, Dorman was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of AT&amp;T Corp., the largest telecommunications company in the world. During his time at AT&amp;T he led the company through a profound reinvention and transformation prior to completing the merger of AT&amp;T Corp. and SBC Communications in November 2005. David joined AT&amp;T as President in December 2000 and was named Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in November 2002. “We are very pleased to have reached this agreement with Mr. Icahn, settling proxy issues and enabling our board and management team to focus our full attention on a goal every shareholder agrees on – growing PayPal and eBay, and delivering sustainable shareholder value,” said eBay Inc. President and CEO John Donahoe. “As a result of our conversations, it became clear that Carl and I strongly agree on the potential of PayPal and our company,” Donahoe said. “I respect Carl’s willingness to work together to drive sustainable shareholder value today and into the future. His record shows that he has done this with many other companies in the past. “We also are honored to have Dave Dorman join our board as our tenth independent director,” Donahoe said. “Dave brings outstanding expertise and an impeccable reputation to our board. We look forward to benefiting from his insight and experience. Our board remains committed to evaluating all strategic options for our company to ensure we are creating sustainable value for shareholders.” Commenting on his appointment, Dorman said: “I have tremendous admiration for eBay and what the company has accomplished under John’s leadership, and I am honored to join such an outstanding Board of Directors. I also respect Mr. Icahn’s commitment to driving shareholder value for companies he believes in, and I look forward to helping drive growth for PayPal and eBay together.” Icahn has signed a confidentiality agreement covering any non-public information that directors and certain officers of the company may share with him. In addition, the company agreed not to adopt a policy precluding such persons from speaking to Mr. Icahn, and that it would advise them that they may speak to Mr. Icahn if they are willing to do so. Icahn stated: “We are happy to have reached this détente with eBay and believe that Dave Dorman will be a great addition to the company’s board of directors. As chairman of Motorola, Mr. Dorman, working in tandem with our board nominees, guided the company through the successful separation of its mobile device and home businesses, which greatly enhanced shareholder value. “Regarding the confidentiality agreement, we have entered into similar agreements in the past with other companies and, as results show, they have worked with great success,” Icahn said. “I am optimistic that this arrangement with eBay will enhance our ability to discuss large issues affecting the company with greater intelligence and will help to enhance shareholder value. “Over the last week I have had a number of conversations with John,” Icahn said. “We both strongly believe in the great potential of eBay and PayPal, and I have found a number of his ideas to be extremely compelling. However, I continue to believe that eBay would benefit from the separation of PayPal at some point in the near future and intend to continue to press my case through confidential discussions with the company. While John has made no commitments regarding such a separation, he and I have agreed to meet regularly when he is in New York to discuss strategic alternatives. We look forward to working with eBay’s board of directors and management with a common objective of creating sustainable value for all shareholders. Our record shows that our involvement with boards and management has greatly enhanced long term value for all shareholders, and we hope and believe this will continue with eBay.” The company confirmed that its first quarter earnings call will take place at 2:00 p.m. PDT on April 29, 2014, and that its annual meeting will take place at 8:00 a.m. PDT on May 13, 2014. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
YouTubeFinancial professionals are known for working notoriously long hours, which can take a harsh toll on personal lives. Bloomberg Businessweek's new cover story on PIMCO's Bill Gross goes into the hours expended by Mohamed El-Erian, the now former CEO of PIMCO. And it includes an anecdote that'll tug at your heart strings: Things were good for a while. “Mohamed and I, we sort of settled in like a married couple,” Gross says. El-Erian kept even more extreme hours than Gross did, sleeping from 9 p.m. until 1 a.m., spending time on his op-eds and other prolific media output, and hitting the office around 4:30 or 5 a.m. He and Gross corresponded all day—mainly by e-mail, even though they sat next to each other, because Gross doesn’t like to be interrupted. When he wasn’t traveling, El-Erian would move at about 9 a.m. from the trading floor to his office in the executive wing to tackle his management duties. According to former colleagues, El-Erian regularly referred to a list his daughter had made of all the recitals and other milestones he’d missed. Surely, that must've contributed to El-Erian's unexpected resignation from the firm. FREE AppDownload
REUTERSTraders smoke outside the New York Stock Exchange in New York October 27 moments after trading was halted for the first time after the Dow Jones industrial average dropped 350 points. October 27, 1997Stock Markets are at a record high but Questor editor, John Ficenec warns there are signs that we could be in for a crash 1. China credit bubble – Is it a new economic model? Or the emperor’s new clothes? The economy is slowing and the central bank is attempting to reign in loose monetary policy by allowing bad loans to default. 2. IPO fever – Professional investors always exit at the top and it is no coincidence we have a record number of overvalued companies listing on stock markets. 3. Technology valuations – Companies that have only been around for a few years, barely make a profit, and are valued at billions of pounds? That’s almost evidence enough that people have taken leave of their senses. 4. Markets don’t rise forever - Studies show that the average length of a bull market was just over 3 years, with the longest bull market being about 5 years. From the lows in March 2009, we are now more than five years into a bull market. 5. End of easy money – For five years every time the markets have wobbled more money has been pumped into the economy, but that can’t go on for ever, the US and China are both tightening monetary policy at the same time. 6. Bitcoin – This is a symptom not a cause, the rise of a currency backed only by the trust of those who use it is evidence that central banks have destroyed faith in the monetary system through a concerted period of devaluation. 7. Gold – It was written off at the start of the year, but has risen 8pc during the past three months as investors seek a safe haven; easily outpacing the FTSE 100 that has fallen by 1.3pc. 8. Credit markets – Years of low interest rates in advanced economies have encouraged global investors to seek higher yields in fast-growing developing countries. Credit investors are always much better at pricing risk than equity investors. 9. Earnings misses – There are signs the five year run of growing profits is coming to an end. We have had big earnings misses right across the sectors. Oil giant shell issued its first profit warning in 10 years, engine maker Rolls-Royce warned on profits along with banking giant Citigroup, The owner of the financial times and education group Pearson and online retailer Amazon. 10. Commodity market – Another sign of the end to easy money is falling commodity prices. Iron, oil and copper are all cheaper than they were at the start of the year Investors have been piling into equities to get a better return as loose monetary policy has crushed interest rates around the world. But in the race for returns many have forgotten how to price risk, for these ten reasons the coming nine months could prove to be a painful reminder.  FREE AppDownload
Businessweek.com"Am I really such a jerk?" asks PIMCO's Bill Gross on the cover of the new Bloomberg Businessweek. This lengthy profile comes as media coverage of the bond fund manager has shifted from fund performance to drama in the executive suite. After Mohamed El-Erian unexpectedly announced his resignation as CEO and co-CIO earlier this year, stories of Gross's harsh and unorthodox management style peppered the pages of the business papers. In the new story reported by Businessweek's Sheelah Kolhatkar, Gross flies head first into the story: His long limbs are folded into a swivel chair inside Pimco’s Newport Beach (Calif.) offices, from which he oversees one of the largest investment firms in the world, with nearly $2 trillion belonging to pension funds, endowments, and pretty much anyone with a retirement account. He’s in navy suit trousers and shirtsleeves, his eyes are misty blue, and he sports a thick head of silvery hair—a mane fit for Mufasa. “It’s been like a near-death experience, an emotional blow,” he continues. His nervous press handler sits a few chairs away, unsure what might come out of his boss’s mouth next. “Whenever I read the newspaper,” Gross says, “I say to myself, ‘At least my wife loves me.’<U+2009>” Gross told Kolhatkar that he never understood or got a complete explanation for why El-Erian left the firm. However, there may be clues based on El-Erian's intense work ethic. From the piece: Things were good for a while. “Mohamed and I, we sort of settled in like a married couple,” Gross says. El-Erian kept even more extreme hours than Gross did, sleeping from 9 p.m. until 1 a.m., spending time on his op-eds and other prolific media output, and hitting the office around 4:30 or 5 a.m. He and Gross corresponded all day—mainly by e-mail, even though they sat next to each other, because Gross doesn’t like to be interrupted. When he wasn’t traveling, El-Erian would move at about 9 a.m. from the trading floor to his office in the executive wing to tackle his management duties. According to former colleagues, El-Erian regularly referred to a list his daughter had made of all the recitals and other milestones he’d missed. Perhaps that last bit was what drove El-Erian to his decision. The piece is a fun and interesting read and it spends almost as much time talking about El-Erian as it does Gross. It takes us through Gross' morning routine and it includes interviews with people familiar with PIMCO and its management. For clients of the firm, this story is probably just another distraction pulling attention away from performance. According to recent Morningstar data, PIMCO's Total Return Fund, the flagship fund managed by Gross, lagged 85% of its competitors in March. During the month, the fund saw $3.1 billion worth of net ouflows. "The cumulative net outflow over 11 months since outflows began in May is $52.1 billion," noted Morningstar’s Michael Rawson regarding the fund. "Assets at the fund peaked at around $293 billion and are now at $232 billion." It's unreasonable for clients to demand performance on a month-to-month basis. It is however reasonable for them to demand confidence from the folks managing their money. Does Businessweek's article help? For now, we can only watch and wait for outflows to stabilize. Morningstar FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/KyodoNorth Korean leader Kim Jong Un attends the Supreme People's Assembly in Pyongyang, in this still image taken from video released by Kyodo April 9, 2014. North Korea on Wednesday announced its leader Kim was re-elected as First Chairman of the ruling National Defence Commission at the meeting of its assembly. Good morning. Here's what you need to know. Chinese trade. Chinese exports fell 6.6% from a year earlier in March and imports tumbled 11.3%. Economists were looking for gains of 4.8% and 3.9%, respectively. The surprise drop in both imports and exports brought China's trade surplus to $7.71 billion in March, well above the $1.8 billion surplus predicted by economists. "Exports by destination show growth was dragged down by weakness in the U.S. and Hong Kong, highlighting the negative impact on exports of soft U.S. demand in Q1, as well as companies' fake export reporting early last year," say economists at Barclays. "Exports to the U.S. grew 1.2% in March and an average of 1.3% in Q1, down from 9.4% in Q4. Exports to Hong Kong declined 43.6% in March and an average of 31.3% in Q1, down from 0.6% in Q4, likely due to distortions caused by fake trade reporting. Meanwhile, exports to other developed and emerging markets look more in line with expectations." Greek offering. Greece issued €3 billion of 5-year notes at a final yield of 4.95% this morning, marking a return to the bond market for the first time since before the euro crisis. "The ability of Greece to conduct issuance emphasizes the overwhelming strength of positive sentiment for peripherals," say interest rate strategists at Rabobank. "Greece still has an extremely high debt stock — albeit much is owned by official creditors and the average maturity is high — but the market is instead focusing on the more positive flow metrics)." Euro zone consumer prices. France, the Netherlands, and Greece all reported consumer price growth below expectations this morning. In France, the consumer price index advanced only 0.6% year over year in March, slowing from February's 0.9% rate and missing expectations for a 0.7% rise. In the Netherlands, the consumer price index rose 0.8% from a year earlier in March, down from 1.1% in February and below estimates for an unchanged reading. In Greece, deflation accelerated faster than expected — the consumer price index fell 1.3% year over year, down from February's 1.1% drop and worse than expectations for a 1.2% price decline. Euro zone industrial production. Industrial production data in France and Italy, two of the euro zone's three biggest economies, also surprised to the downside. French industrial output rose only 0.1% in February from a month earlier, failing to meet expectations for a 0.2% advance. Italian industrial output fell 0.5% — economists were looking for only a 0.3% drop. "This underscores the fact that both governments are touting a new push for growth and how this will be reconciled with the EU demands for austerity are not yet clear," says Marc Chandler, global head of currency strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman. "Although in an uncoordinated fashion, a Paris-Rome (and maybe Madrid) bloc could be coming together and, if we are right about the EU parliamentary elections, the tide in Europe may turn in the coming months." Bank of England. In its monthly decision on monetary policy, the Bank of England elected to leave its benchmark interest rate unchanged at 0.5% and its asset purchase target unchanged at £375 billion. "Despite some evidence from labour market surveys pointing to strong increases in wages in the coming months, the BoE takes comfort from the favourable combination of sustained output growth and subdued price pressures, and continues to act in line with its forward guidance announced in August (at 7.2% the ILO unemployment rate is still above the 7% threshold but is expected to decline to 6.9% in Q1 2014)," says Slavena Nazarova, an economist at Crédit Agricole. "The exact timing of the first rate hike is uncertain but we continue to anticipate a first rate hike in Q2 2015, in line with markets’ expectations, followed by a very gradual pace of tightening thereafter." Mixed markets. In the United States, S&amp;P 500 futures point to a slightly negative open, while Treasuries are getting a boost. The dollar-yen exchange rate is down another 0.3% today following Tuesday's big sell-off, trading near ¥101.70. The euro is up slightly against the dollar. The London FTSE 100, the French CAC 40, and the German DAX are advancing, while Spain's IBEX 35 and Italy's FTSE MIB are in the red. Gold is up 1.3%, trading near $1322 an ounce. Jobless claims. The latest weekly jobless claims data are due out at 8:30 AM ET. Economists predict 320,000 initial claims for unemployment insurance were filed in the week ended April 5, down from 326,000 the week before. Continuing claims filed in the week ended March 29 are expected to have ticked down to 2.835 million from 2.836 million. Import prices. Monthly import prices data are also released at 8:30 AM. Economists predict prices rose 0.2% in March from the previous month but fell 0.9% from a year earlier after gaining 0.9% on the month but losing 1.1% on the year in February. 30-year auction. The U.S. Treasury will auction $13 billion of 30-year notes at 1 PM ET. 30-year yields are down 40 basis points this year following the Fed's decision to unwind its large-scale asset purchase program and continue down the path toward monetary policy normalization. "Given the data-light calendar for the next two weeks or so, the return of carry trades could steer demand away from the long end and into the belly of the curve," say interest rate strategists at Nomura. "We expect more concession, either outright or on the curve, heading into the auction." Monthly budget statement. The U.S. Treasury releases its monthly budget statement at 2 PM ET. Economists predict the monthly budget deficit shrank to $36 billion in March from $106.5 billion a year earlier. FREE AppDownload
Agence France PresseChinese pork producer WH Group hopes to raise more than $5 billion in what would be the world's biggest initial public offering for a year as it plans to list in Hong Kong, giving a boost to the city's IPO market. The company -- which last year bought US giant Smithfield Foods in a landmark multi-billion-dollar deal -- will sell 3.66 billion shares at an indicative price range of HK$8.00-HK$11.25 each. If the Henan-based firm, formerly known as Shuanghui International Holdings, sells its shares at the top end of the range, it would raise $5.3 billion. That would make it the largest IPO globally since Brazil's BB Seguridade Participacoes SA raised $5.7 billion in April last year. It would also be Hong Kong's biggest since US insurer AIA raised $20.5 billion in 2010. WH Group's shares are expected to list on April 30, according to Dow Jones Newswires. WH Group is the world's largest pork company and is involved in the production, slaughter and distribution of the meat, a key ingredient in Chinese cuisine. It is also a shareholder of Spanish meat firm Campofrio Food, according to its website. If demand is strong, the firm -- whose shareholders include Goldman Sachs and Singapore's state investment firm Temasek -- also has an option to sell a further 20 percent more shares, which could boost the sale to $6.37 billion. "It's one of the largest (deals) in the world, it deserves some attention," Tanrich Securities vice president Jackson Wong told AFP, adding that there was high demand when two other smaller pork producers listed in Hong Kong. In May WH Group, under the Shuanghui name, agreed to buy Smithfield Foods in a deal valuing Smithfield at $7.1 billion, making it the largest ever Chinese acquisition of a US company. The IPO will be welcomed by Hong Kong's exchange after Alibaba, the world's largest online retailer, opted in March to list in New York instead following a disagreement over the type of stock it could issue. Talks between the Internet giant and Hong Kong's bourse broke down last year, in part because listing rules prevented Alibaba founder Jack Ma and senior management retaining some control over the board of directors. The loss of the coveted deal was seen as a blow to Hong Kong's efforts to maintain its appeal as a public listings destination, after being eclipsed by other bourses in 2012 as the world's largest IPO venue. "After Alibaba, the Hong Kong exchange really needed a boost in the form of WH Group," Frances Lun, CEO of GEO Securities, told AFP. Hong Kong was the world's top IPO venue from 2009 to 2011 but has lost ground to competitors in recent years. However, it has seen a pick-up this year -- especially for some less orthodox companies. Magnum Entertainment, the first nightclub operator to list in Hong Kong, saw its HK$126 million IPO oversubscribed 3,500 times. Its share price soared 90 percent on the first day. Fu Shou Yuan, the largest mainland Chinese funeral services provider, saw its December $215 million IPO oversubscribed by nearly 700 percent. In January, a utility trust owned by Asia's richest man Li Ka-shing, raised $3.11 billion but fell 2.02 percent on its debut. -- Dow Jones Newswires contributed to this report -- Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
ELSTATGreece made it's triumphant return to the bond markets today after nosebleedingly high interest rates kept the country shut out for four years. However, tumbling government borrowing costs belies the fact that the Greek economy remains deeply troubled. According to new data from the Hellenic Statistical Authority, Greece's unemployment was at a staggering 26.7% in January. This is up from 26.5% a year ago, but down from 27.2% in December. In January 2009, the unemployment rate was at 8.9%. The economic crisis has been particularly harsh for young workers. The unemployment rate among 15-24-year-olds and 25-34-year-olds were at 56.8% and 35.5%, respectively. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA Spring Airlines crew member sells food onboard an Airbus A320 aircraft near ShanghaiBEIJING (Reuters) - The chairman of Spring Airlines requires his employees to use both sides of a sheet of paper before throwing it away and even removed most of the bulbs lighting the corridor to his office - all part of his quest to save money. China's first low-cost airline has been profitable since 2006, its first full year of operation, but the budget aviation market is about to get a lot more competitive as the government moves to promote low-cost travel to meet a surge in demand from an increasingly wealthier population. Over the last 18 months, Spring has been joined by two new competitors. China's big state-backed carriers are also looking at launching budget carriers, a strategy industry executives say would be an additional boon to plane makers Airbus Group and Boeing Co. The Civil Aviation Administration of China (CAAC) plans to add nearly 80 new airports by 2020, including a $14.5 billion second airport in the capital Beijing, and is urging other airports to build new terminals and convert existing facilities to handle budget airlines. The initiative, industry observers say, would usher in a new era for low-cost carriers (LCCs) in a country where one in four people travelled by air in 2013. That number is set to rise to almost the whole population in the next two decades, according to Airbus executives, with China to replace the United States as the world's largest aviation market during the same period. "There will be a number of new entrants," said Andrew Herdman, director general of the Association of Asia Pacific Airlines. "We know that model works well for short-haul flights elsewhere. There is no reason it shouldn't work well in China." For Wang Zhenghua, founder and chairman of Spring Airlines, progress has been slow. The Shanghai-based carrier has been flying for nine years and still struggles to get prime landing slots at Beijing Capital International Airport, causing Spring to rack-up 80 million yuan ($12.90 million) in total losses on a route that has been highly profitable for the wider industry. "We only get to land in Beijing either early in the morning or late at night," Wang told Reuters. "Slots are pretty tight, but unfairness and discrimination are the main issues here." Beijing, one of China's busiest airports, is home to Air China and a critical hub to other state-backed carriers. The CAAC recently pledged to assign slots to all airlines in a more fair way. Unlike Europe, where budget carriers control 50 percent of the short-haul market, Spring booked about 11 million passengers last year, or less than 5 percent of the total China market. Pilot shortages, limited airspace and regular delays have held back growth, industry executive say, while fast and affordable rail also poses a threat. China's State Council announced last week that it was speeding up construction of railway lines. The low fares and no-frills model now popular in China was pioneered by Southwest Airlines Co in the early 1970s and successfully emulated by Ryanair Holding PLC, AirAsia Bhd and easy Jet Plc. "The growth potential for LCCs is huge because China has a big population and many people have never taken a plane," Spring Airlines' Wang said. "Our clients can be anyone who is price-sensitive, it's not just wage earners." In November, CAAC deputy director general Xia Xinghua endorsed the development of budget travel when he appeared at a Beijing low-cost carrier forum. That month, Wang Junjin, chairman of privately owned Juneyao Group, set up Jiuyuan Airlines, a budget carrier based in Guangzhou, southern China's most important aviation hub. Juneyao also operates a namesake full-service Shanghai-based carrier, which services 60 domestic cities, and a handful of Asian destinations, with a fleet of 34 Airbus A320 aircraft. HNA Group, parent of Hainan Airlines Co Ltd, converted its Chongqing-based subsidiary West Air into a budget airline at the end of 2012. West Air, which mainly shuttles between small cities, flew 3.3 million passengers in 2013, its first full year of service. More importantly, it reported a load factor of about 90 percent, 10 percentage points higher than the industry average. China's biggest government-backed carriers are also eyeing budget opportunities. China Southern Airlines Co Ltd is considering setting up a low-cost subsidiary, its chairman Si Xianming told Reuters recently. Air China is also "studying" the low-cost market, Chief Financial Officer Fan Cheng told China's state radio this week. China Eastern Airlines Corp Ltd is turning Beijing-based subsidiary China United Airlines into a budget carrier, local media said. More competition may mean more margin pressure. Spring Airlines now has a profit margin of 10 percent, higher than the industry average of 8 percent. Wang attributes Spring's success in part to stringent cost cutting: all staff, Wang included, must fly with heavily discounted tickets or take trains for business trips. Employees are expected to stay in budget hotels, and no one leaves the office without turning off the lights. When the company moved its headquarters into an ageing hotel near Shanghai's Hongqiao airport, Wang not only took away eight of the 10 bulbs that light his office corridor but also voted against refurbishing, a decision that makes think twice when he has trouble flushing the toilet. "The pipes in the bathroom are too old. It's a pain to flush the toilet," he groaned. ($1 = 6.2123 Chinese Yuan) (Reporting by Fang Yan and Matthew Miller in BEIJING; Editing by Emily Kaiser and Miral Fahmy) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFile photo of customers walking outside a Wal-Mart store in the Porter Ranch section of Los Angeles (Reuters) - Wal-Mart Stores Inc &lt;WMT.N&gt; wants Americans, even those on a budget, to buy more organic food. The retailer that leads U.S. stores in grocery sales said on Thursday it struck a deal to sell Wild Oats brand organic foods at non-organic prices. The move could help revive Walmart's flagging grocery sales and boost the profile of the resurrected Wild Oats brand. The effort also could turn up the heat on mainstream food sellers, such as Campbell Soup Co &lt;CPB.N&gt; and ConAgra Foods Inc &lt;CAG.N&gt;. Organic foods accounted for roughly 4 percent of total U.S. food sales in 2012, but growth in the category for years has outpaced the industry overall, buoyed by growing demand for simpler food made from natural ingredients. Organic foods often cost more than their conventional rivals and that has limited purchases by the legions of lower-income U.S. shoppers who are needed to propel a niche product into a national player. Walmart caters to that audience and says it will price Wild Oats products at par with conventional items and at least 25 percent below branded organic foods. The Wild Oats offers will include staples such as salsa, organic olive oil, canned black beans and tomato paste. "If we can make that price premium disappear, we think it will grow much, much faster," Jack Sinclair, executive vice president of grocery at Walmart U.S., said of the retailer's small but faster-growing organic sales. Walmart's own research showed that 91 percent of its shoppers would purchase affordable organic products if they were offered, Sinclair added. Kraft Foods Group Inc &lt;KRFT.O&gt;, Kellogg Co &lt;K.N&gt;, Unilever Plc &lt;ULVR.L&gt; and many other large food companies have taken small steps to respond as health-conscious consumers lose their taste for the highly processed foods that the industry made famous. As a result, they have lost some market share to smaller players such as WhiteWave Foods Co &lt;WWAV.N&gt;, the parent of organic dairy seller Horizon, and Annie's Inc &lt;BNNY.N&gt;. Walmart will roll out 100 Wild Oats packaged foods products to half of its 4,000 stores in the coming months. The retailer, which is not expanding shelf space to accommodate the new items, already sells more than 1,600 organic products, including produce and dairy items. Walmart is not removing the organic price premium on those products. It plans to keep a lid on prices by eliminating middle men and striking long-term agreements with farmers, Sinclair said. Experts say increased supplies of organic ingredients should support expanded production and distribution, which often results in lower prices. That could be bad news for conventional food sellers, who may be forced to respond by cutting their own prices. Wild Oats was the second-largest natural and organic grocer when Whole Foods Market Inc &lt;WFM.O&gt; bought the chain for $565 million in 2007. After the acquisition, Whole Foods sold the Wild Oats name and other assets. They are now owned by billionaire Ron Burkle, who was Wild Oats' biggest shareholder when the chain was sold. Britain's Tesco Plc &lt;TSCO.L&gt; late last year loaned Burkle's Yucaipa investment company roughly $126 billion to take most of its money-losing Fresh &amp; Easy stores off its hands. Fresh &amp; Easy stores in California, Nevada and Arizona now sell products from Wild Oats. Walmart said it would be the only national retailer to carry Wild Oats products and that in the future it may consider adding fresh organics such as the milk, eggs and salads. Organic food sales were up 10.2 percent to $29.0 billion in 2012, the latest available figures, and are expected to continue rising, according to the Organic Trade Association. (Reporting by Lisa Baertlein in Los Angeles and Phil Wahba and Jonathan Stempel in New York; Editing by Lisa Shumaker) FREE AppDownload
More ultra-easy monetary policies from the world’s major central banks in response to lowflation is bullish for assets in general and stocks in particular. In the past, there has been an inverse correlation between inflation, as measured by the core personal consumption expenditures deflator (PCED), and the forward P/E of the S&amp;P 500. Most recently, the P/E rose from a low of 10.4 during August 2011 to 15.5 last month. Over that same period, the PCED inflation rate, on a y/y basis, fell from 1.6% to 1.1%. An even better fit is between the P/E and the Misery Index, which is the sum of the inflation rate and the unemployment rate. Since the 2011 low in the P/E, the Misery Index has declined from 10.6% to 7.8%. Lowflation is bullish because the Fed is much less likely to tighten as long as it persists. While Fed Chair Janet Yellen caused a stir recently by suggesting that the FOMC might start raising interest rates six months after QE is terminated at the end of this year, she also said it depends on whether inflation rebounds back to 2%.  Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Lowflation. (1) IMF chief warns about “lowflation.” (2) P/E inversely correlated with inflation and Misery Index. (3) Central bankers are macroeconomists blindly following the “slack” model. (4) What if globalization, technology, cheap money, and competition are driving lowflation towards deflation? (5) Any signs of deflation in revenues, margins, and earnings? (6) A whole bunch of global forward earnings comparisons. (7) Focus on underweight-rated S&amp;P 500 Materials. (More forr subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA woman wearing a mask rides past smoking chimneys and cooling towers of a steel plant in BeijingBEIJING (Reuters) - Nearly 2,000 Chinese enterprises were found to be in violation of state pollution guidelines following a nationwide inspection campaign covering 25,000 industrial firms, the environment ministry said on Thursday. With the environment identified as one of the government's top priorities after years of unfettered economic growth, Beijing has promised to enhance its powers to monitor and punish industries accused of ignoring state regulations. Beijing has struggled to make local governments and industries comply with laws and has long been criticized for relying on national campaigns to bring industrial sectors like coal, steel or rare earth to heel. Illegal behavior often resumes once government inspectors have departed. The Ministry of Environmental Protection (MEP) has targeted firms that fail to install pollution control technology or provide fraudulent emissions data to try to avoid punishment. In a notice posted on its website (www.mep.gov.cn) on Thursday, it said a three-month inspection campaign beginning last November revealed that 1,888 industrial enterprises had failed to comply with pollution rules. A total of 2,185 industrial sites had failed to meet required emission standards. Another inspection was launched in February in six northern Chinese regions, the ministry said, and found environmental problems at 384 of 563 enterprises. A March follow-up inspection of 198 offenders showed that 29 had stopped operations, while most of the remainder were rectifying their problems, the ministry said. Several steel firms, including a unit of Hebei Iron and Steel Group, China's biggest steel producer, had failed for a time to install proper desulfurization equipment, but had rectified the problems. Past monitoring failures had allowed dozens of enterprises to provide fraudulent data to authorities in order to avoid punishment and obtain clean energy subsidies. The ministry is trying to improve enforcement by establishing real-time monitoring systems that will give government regulators direct access to pollution data. It said it planned to invest 40 billion yuan ($6.45 billion) over the 2011-2015 period to boost monitoring capacity. ($1 = 6.2005 Chinese Yuan) (Reporting by David Stanway; Editing by Ron Popeski) FREE AppDownload
One by one the bears and the rational thinkers throw in the towel. Economist Robert Shiller is the latest to drink the Kool-Aid. As noted by Business Insider Shiller tweeted the following about a post from White House Council of Economic Advisers Chair Jason Furman on various economic indicators: "Furman's blog chart 4 of hours worked in manuf suggests, with new record high of 42, no recession for years to come." Manufacturing hours worked is the fourth chart in the White House Blog report on the Employment Situation in March.Mish Shedlock I recreate the chart below but start the timeline at 1940 rather than 1950. I also added some highlights in red. Mish Shedlock Supposedly the current reading of 42 is all you need to know to understand a recession isn't in the cards for "years to come". Note that in the mid-1940s a recession started with weekly hours over 45, something Shiller conveniently chopped off in his chart. OK let's toss that out as a war ending event. Is there anything sacrosanct about 42 vs. 41 where many recessions started? I suggest no. And what about manufacturing employment vs. hours worked? Good question. Here's the chart. Manufacturing Employment Mish Shedlock Two Questions Reality There is no single chart that is a sure fire indicator of anything. An inverted yield curve is probably the closest bet, but given QE and blatant Fed manipulation of interest rates, it's highly likely the next recession starts with a positive curve. Even if hours worked has high importance (and it doesn't) there is absolutely nothing to suggest where manufacturing hours will be six months from now! Shiller should know better than to make such statements. I propose a $5,000 bet with Robert Shiller right now, donated to our favorite charity that he is wrong. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFile photo of the logo of Boyu Capital at the company's office in Hong KongHONG KONG, April 10 (Reuters) - The 28-year-old wears black-framed glasses perched on cheeks still round with youth. A discerning eye might notice the resemblance to his grandfather: former Chinese president and Communist Party leader Jiang Zemin. Alvin Jiang has a knack for landing lucrative deals in China, the world's biggest emerging market for private equity. He is a founding partner at Hong Kong-based Boyu Capital, now one of the hottest firms in China. Boyu has attracted high-profile investors such as Asia's richest man, Li Ka-shing, and Singapore's sovereign wealth fund, Temasek Holdings Private Limited. Founded in 2010, Boyu Capital is poised to earn big paydays from two of the most notable initial public offerings to emerge from China in the last 18 months - e-commerce giant Alibaba Group Holding Ltd, and state-backed debt trader China Cinda Asset Management Co. No other China-focused firm with such a short history has found its way into both deals. Boyu is regarded as among the most professional operators in China private equity, with seasoned executives at its helm. But according to multiple investors, Alibaba and Cinda are not only what lures them to Boyu. Investors were also impressed with Boyu's 2011 purchase of a controlling stake in Sunrise Duty Free - which runs all the duty-free stores at Shanghai and Beijing's international airports. That deal, they believe, provided evidence that Jiang Zemin's grandson could gain access to a strictly controlled state sector and convert those assets into a highly profitable investment. The Sunrise investment is expected to earn a substantial exit payout for Jiang, his Boyu colleagues and investors in the firm's first $1 billion fund, people in the private equity industry say. Whether the young private equity executive actually uses his personal connections in the way investors attribute to him remains unclear. There is no evidence that Jiang Zemin had a role in helping Boyu win a part in the Sunrise deal or in any other transaction. That hasn't stopped the belief from spreading that Alvin Jiang is tapping his family connections. Alvin Jiang and Boyu Capital declined to comment for this story. PRINCELING INFLUENCE Alvin Jiang's Chinese given name is Zhicheng, which means, "with ambition, you can achieve." He is a "princeling," the relatives of current or former senior Chinese Communist Party leaders. His father, Jiang Mianheng, is also a princeling. He is the CEO of one of Shanghai's largest state-owned enterprises and is in charge of China's push into alternative nuclear energy sources. The extensive control of China's Communist Party over almost all aspects of China's economy and society has often allowed princelings to leverage their political connections to amass wealth. Conflict of interest laws in China are weak and coverage of the business dealings of the political elite is heavily censored in the largely state-controlled media. Princelings have played central roles in businesses involved in finance, energy, domestic security, telecommunications and the media. Private equity, featuring deals that are often by their nature opaque, has proven to be a natural haven for them. Within China's private equity realm, 15 firms identified by Reuters were either founded by a princeling, or have employed princelings in senior roles. Between them, these funds have raised at least $17.5 billion for investment since 1999. The most powerful investors in private equity funds, known as limited partners, include giant U.S. pension funds and insurance companies; sovereign wealth funds; university endowments; and ultra-high net worth individuals. For some of these big investors, the China game is straightforward: "You just have to know the right people," said one veteran limited partner. "It's why you invest with a princeling fund." Several limited partners told Reuters that their firms assess princelings on their political connections and ability to convert those ties into business deals. Alvin Jiang and Boyu Capital, these investors say, rank high on those lists. AN OUTSTANDING RETURN In mid-2011, Boyu agreed to pay around $80 million for a 40 percent stake in Sunrise Duty Free, according to three sources with direct knowledge of the deal, valuing Sunrise at $200 million. The ownership of the remaining 60 per cent of Sunrise has not been made public. Boyu, however, has told investors it has a controlling stake, sources with knowledge of the matter said. At the time of Boyu's investment, Sunrise ranked 15th among the top 25 travel retailers in the world, with annual revenue of around $670 million, according to the Moodie Report, which tracks the duty free industry. By early 2013, Boyu had marked the Sunrise business on its books at a value of around $800 million, two of the sources with direct knowledge of the valuation said. Bankers, however, value Sunrise at twice that amount - at around $1.6 billion - based on 2012 sales figures the company filed with Chinese authorities, which Reuters reviewed. Based on Boyu's more conservative valuation of $800 million for Sunrise, Boyu could be sitting on a paper gain of around four times its money in just under three years - an outstanding return in an industry where earning a multiple of two times over five years is considered a success. Boyu has already recovered much of its Sunrise investment through dividend payments, according to three people with knowledge of the matter. BEHOLD THE SUNRISE The man who founded, built and then sold Sunrise to Boyu is Fred Kiang, a Chinese-American businessman with close ties to the Jiang family, according to Alvin Jiang's friends and business associates. Kiang founded Sunrise in 1999. That was the year the central government under Jiang Zemin opened up the operation of duty free shops to international bidders at the new Pudong International Airport in Shanghai - Jiang's political power base. Previously, duty free operations had been a monopoly controlled by state-owned China Duty Free, and foreign firms like Kiang's were excluded from the business. Three international companies were selected to operate at Pudong airport, including two established duty free firms: World Duty Free, owned at the time by the British Airport Authority, and Orient King Power, a subsidiary of Hong Kong's King Power Group. The third tender went to Kiang's newly formed Sunrise Duty Free, a foreign-owned company with no previous experience in the industry. Sunrise won a 10-year contract to sell tobacco and alcohol at Shanghai's Pudong Airport, World Duty Free won a five-year contract to sell perfume and cosmetics, and Orient King Power won the concession to sell luxury goods. SPECIAL APPROVAL In 2000, China's State Council approved a measure that handed control of all duty free businesses - except those in Shanghai - from local governments to state-owned China Duty Free. Foreign companies were banned from setting up joint ventures or directly owning duty free businesses in China. Yet in 2001 Sunrise Duty Free took over the perfume and cosmetics duty free concession at Pudong airport when World Duty Free pulled out of its contract. Published reports at the time quoted World Duty Free as calling it a "strategic withdrawal" because passenger traffic had not reached forecast levels. Sunrise in time would also take over luxury goods at the airport. In 2005, Sunrise won a 10-year concession at Beijing International Airport, outbidding China Duty Free and Orient King Power. In 2009, its contract at Pudong was renewed for another decade. Sunrise was granted "special approval" to operate duty free shops by China's cabinet, the State Council, despite restrictions against foreign ownership, according to a 2009 report by China Business News, a state-owned media outlet. No other details were given on the Sunrise exemption. Today, business at Sunrise is booming. According to the company documents seen by Reuters, Sunrise had revenue of $1.08 billion in 2012. The Moodie Report ranks Sunrise just behind state-owned China Duty Free, which controls nearly all of China's other duty free shops. KIANG AND THE JIANGS Why Fred Kiang would sell 40 per cent of a thriving company at what appears to be a discount remains the central puzzle surrounding the Sunrise deal. Apart from Sunrise, Kiang's mainland business remains unknown. Friends and associates note his taste in expensive cigars, and the little publicity he has received is largely devoted to that passion. In 2009, he hosted an event in Shanghai to smoke the 40th anniversary Cohiba Behike, a limited edition Cuban cigar that sold for $500 apiece. Kiang, who is in his late 60s, shuttles between Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tucson, Arizona, where he owns properties in areas ranging from gated communities to low-end rentals. Alvin Jiang and Jiang Mianheng have used a Kiang residence address in Arizona for small personal business transactions. Kiang declined to respond to e-mails and phone calls from Reuters. Born in China, Kiang claims Shanghai roots, but was raised in the United States. He received his undergraduate and MBA degrees at Massachusetts' Babson College in 1970 and 1975, respectively, and now sits on the college's board of trustees. Kiang first met Jiang Zemin in 1986, when Kiang served as vice-chairman of the San Francisco-Shanghai Sister City Committee, led by then city mayor and now U.S. Senator Dianne Feinstein, according to a person close to Kiang. Kiang and Jiang noted their common surname, which though spelled differently in English, is the same character in Chinese, said the source who is Alvin's friend and business acquaintance. In 1989, Jiang Zemin became Communist Party General Secretary; in 1990 Kiang established his base in Shanghai. Kiang was a senior executive at Newbridge, the former name of TPG Capital in Asia, one of the world's biggest private equity firms, three people with direct knowledge told Reuters. From the late 1990s to the 2000s, Kiang was an advisor to U.S.-based insurer MetLife Inc as it looked for a joint venture partner to build its business in China, said a source with knowledge of the matter. Kiang negotiated on MetLife's first mainland license in 2004, the source said, one of the first major Sino-foreign ventures created after China's 2001 entry into the World Trade Organization. TPG and MetLife declined to comment. BOYU'S RISE In 2010, Alvin Jiang, newly graduated from Harvard with a bachelor's degree, was just another newbie banker in Hong Kong, working as an analyst at Goldman Sachs private equity unit. Nine months later, he left to launch Boyu. On September 21, 2010, he filed incorporation documents in Hong Kong, listing himself as the company's sole director. When Boyu first made news in 2011, it was private equity veteran Mary Ma whose name captured headlines, not Alvin's. Ma, the former CFO at Lenovo Group, left a senior role at TPG to help set up Boyu. Additional co-founders soon followed: Louis Cheung, former executive director of Ping An Insurance Group of China, credited with its turnaround from 2000; and Sean Tong, a veteran of U.S. private equity firms Providence Equity Partners and General Atlantic, where he was Alvin Jiang's boss during a summer internship in 2008. Ma and Cheung were known in the private equity industry for turning around struggling companies; Tong was a noted dealmaker. Combined, they had 50 years of industry experience. DILIGENT AND FOCUSED Two subsequent investments cemented Boyu's reputation for having the influence to find its way into profitable, high-profile assets. Alvin Jiang played a role negotiating both deals. In 2012, Alibaba founder Jack Ma found himself face-to-face with Jiang Zemin's grandson. Boyu had joined a consortium led by China Investment Corp (CIC) to raise some of the $7.1 billion that Ma needed to buy back half of Yahoo! Inc's 40 percent stake in Alibaba. Some high profile departures had left CIC, China's giant sovereign wealth fund, short of personnel. That left it up to Boyu to lead the negotiations, with Alvin on Sean Tong's team, according to two sources directly involved in the negotiations. Alibaba and CIC declined to comment. The CIC consortium received a 5.6 percent stake in Alibaba in exchange for raising capital to help buy half of Yahoo!'s shares in China's giant e-commerce company. Alibaba was valued at around $38 billion then. Analysts estimate Alibaba is worth at least $140 billion today, which means Boyu's investment as part of the CIC consortium has increased more than three and a half times in value in 18 months. The e-commerce giant has announced it will list shares on one of the New York exchanges in the third quarter of this year, a deal expected to exceed Facebook's $16 billion offering in 2012. Alvin Jiang also brought in Boyu to invest around $50 million in Cinda, created in 1999 to buy bad debts from state-owned banks, said two sources familiar with the deal. Banks and private equity firms were jockeying to get a piece of the $1.6 billion stake that Cinda was offering to strategic investors ahead of its initial public offering. The consortium of investors that were allowed to make a pre-IPO investment in Cinda included China's social security fund NSSF, UBS AG, CITIC Capital, Standard Chartered Bank - and two private equity funds, the powerhouse Carlyle Group and Boyu Capital. Some of Jiang's friends stress he is more than just a well-connected face. He works through a company's numbers when negotiating, a skill he picked up during his brief time at Goldman, said one friend and business acquaintance. "Many people from his background would not bother to do that," the friend said. "HEADLINE RISK" Princeling privilege isn't necessarily permanent in China, even for the grandson of a living former President. The extraordinary fall of former Chongqing governor Bo Xilai in 2012 reinforced that notion for many private equity investors. Because they work for companies governed by Western laws, some have turned cautious about investing in princeling firms. In private, investors discuss "headline risk," the fear that a business deal will end up on the front pages of newspapers. Those worries have risen with President Xi Jinping's anti-corruption campaign, and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission's investigation into Wall Street's hiring practices in China. "Our firm is pretty equally divided on investing with princelings," said one European investor. "I oppose it, but many of my colleagues are for it. I see princeling funds as a double-edged sword." For Boyu, profit and prospects have so far trumped any such anxiety: Alvin Jiang's firm has swiftly raised $1.5 billion from investors for its second fund, 50 per cent more than its first fund, people with knowledge of the matter said. (Reporting by Stephen Aldred and Irene Jay Liu. Additional reporting by Xinqi Su and Jean Lin. Editing by Bill Tarrant.) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/John Kolesidis Greece made its triumphant return to the bond markets this morning. According to the WSJ, Greece sold 3 billion euros (or around $4.16 billion) of 5-year bonds at an interest rate of 4.95%. At the height of the euro crisis just a few years ago, long-term yields would sit north of 60%. Not only is this a low interest rate for Greece, it's also pretty low considering the country debt is rated "junk," which means it continues to be at pretty high risk of default. "Greece is rated nine notches below investment grade at Caa3 by Moody's. Standard and Poor's and Fitch rank Greece six notches below investment grade at B-," noted Reuters Helene Durand.  Demand was huge. WSJ's Katie Martin noted around 550 accounts placed orders. Demand for the 3 billion euro bond sale was actually closer to 20 billion euros. However, the bond sale was not without its skeptics. "Order books for hot deals are padded to boost allocations," said finance Twitterer Pawel Morski. "There is no €20bn of genuine end-user demand for Greece." "Greece has been the most conspicuous example of the dramatic improvement in sentiment towards the eurozone periphery," said Nicholas Spiro, managing director of Spiro Sovereign Strategy. "Markets have gone from being paranoid to complacent in a very short period of time, with the recent sell-off in developing economies playing into the hands of debt managers across the eurozone periphery." Crushing debt levels, soaring interest rates, and an all-out financial crisis in southern Europe kept Greece shut out of the bond market since 2010. "Greece is back," said Prime Minister Antonis Samaras last week. However, it's far too early to be celebrating. With a quarter of its workforce still unemployed, the country is only beginning to claw it's way out of economic depression. FREE AppDownload
