We just saw that the Chinese economy expanded 7.7% on the year in the fourth quarter of 2013. GDP was up 1.8% quarter-over-quarter.  GDP growth was up 7.7% in 2013, the lowest level since 1999.  Economists have for sometime warned about a slowdown in China. And this is of course terrible news for Australia. Dylan Grice has previously described Australia as "a credit bubble built on a commodity market built on an even bigger Chinese credit bubble, Australia looks like leveraged leverage, a CDO squared." Grice was pointing out that Australia relies on China to consume its exports in a massive way. But it isn't just Australia that's watching the slowdown in China. Bloomberg chief economist Michael McDonough tweeted this chart that shows the percent of country's total exports consumed by China: Michael McDonough/Bloomberg  He also tweeted this chart that shows the countries most dependent on China for their exports: Michael McDonough/Bloomberg FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Alex LeeThe Chinese economy expanded 7.7% in the fourth quarter of 2013. This was down from 7.8% in Q3, but above expectations for a 7.6% rise. On the quarter, Q4 GDP was up 1.8%. This was down from 2.2% in Q3, and below expectations for a 2% rise. GDP growth was up 7.7% in 2013, this was the lowest level seen since 1999, according to Xinhua. "We anticipate the upcoming data release to show China's economy losing steam somewhat in December," UBS' Harrison Hu said in a note released head of the data. "Though sequential growth momentum likely held steady or declined slightly across most domestic demand sectors, a high base effect would have weighed upon headline activity numbers." But China is also releasing a string of other data tonight that will give us more of an insight into the health of the economy. Chinese industrial production was up 9.7% on the year in December. This was lower than the 10% rise in November, and missed expectations for a 9.8% rise. Year-to-date (Ytd) industrial production was up 9.7% in line with expectations and from 9.7% in November. Retail sales were up 13.6% on the year in line with expectations, but down from 13.7% the previous month. Ytd retail sales were up 13.1% on the year, in line with expectations and up from 13% in November. For the year, retail sales slowed to 13.1%, from 14.3% in 2012.  "We expect retail sales growth to rebound in the first few months in 2014 thanks to a lower comparison base (remember the frugality campaign started in the beginning of 2013)," Bank of America's Ting Lu wrote in a note to clients, referring to the crackdown on corruption that weighed on retail sales in early 2013. Finally, Ytd fixed asset investment (FAI) was up 9.7% on the year. This was in line with expectations and compared with a 9.7% rise the previous month. Railway FAI jumped to 18.4% in December, from -7.6%, "as the government raised the year-end FAI target by RMB 40bn in November," Ting pointed out. Meanwhile, manufacturing FAI picked up too, rising 18.4%, from 14.1% in November. FREE AppDownload
Steve Graham—a 55-year-old private equity exec who runs Philadelphia-area Graham Partners—has some serious breakdancing moves that would make most twenty-somethings envious.  In the breaking world, he's known as "B-boy Silverback." In the 80s, people called him "Vanilla Shake" (that was before "Vanilla Ice" came along). Graham got his start in the breaking scene while working as an analyst at Goldman Sachs during the early 1980s.   Back then, he used to go to legendary Chelsea club, The Roxy. "I asked a guy to show me a move. And then I was like, 'I can do this,'" said Graham, who was a three-sport athlete (track, tennis and skiing) at Williams College.   After that, he started going out to a community center in the South Bronx late at night for breaking. "When you work at Goldman so late you can take a cab anywhere, so I literally took it to the South Bronx and trained at this place with guys who were sort of famous breakers back in the day. I learned some moves from them."   He also started breaking during lunch at Goldman. His colleagues loved it.  Once Graham had learned enough moves, he started challenging the Manhattan "street hitters"—people who break for money on the sidewalk—to breaking battles.   "You know, 'Hey, I want to battle you.' They thought it was hilarious because I was this white preppy dude breaking. I had enough moves and I was athletic enough that they loved it.  They started putting me in their act," Graham said. Graham said he would show up wearing glasses, a tie and carrying an HP-12C calculator in his pocket. He explained that the hitters would grab him by the tie from out of the crowd.   Via Graham Partners"When they'd pull me out of the crowd it would literally flip everyone from Oklahoma out," he said.   Graham would then fold his glasses, take off his jacket, put down his calculator and walk straight up to the hitters and bust an air swipe for his entry move. (You can check one out in the video below.) People didn't know what was going on, he said, but they loved it.  Following his stint at Goldman, he went to business school at Dartmouth. There, he taught a bunch of his classmates how to break. For years after that, he would occasionally break out his moves at parties, but he stopped training. Just a couple of years ago, though, he enrolled his two youngest sons—now ages five and eight—into breaking with some coaches in Philadelphia.  That's when he picked it up again. Now he even teaches a bunch of his summer interns how to break in addition to learning more common Wall Street skills, like financial modeling. He explained that about half of his interns are college athletes.  During the summer, they live on his farm and they learn to break. They also enter into breaking events. Graham is also very connected to breaking scenes in Philadelphia, New York, Chicago and the West Coast — he even knows breakers overseas in Europe.  He sponsors highlight videos, events and competitions for breakers, and spends time helping out fellow breakers with anything from education to legal issues. Graham recently created a non-profit UDEF (Urban Dance &amp; Educational Foundation). So far, the Facebook page has more than 50,000 "likes". UDEF's first initiative is The Pro Breaking Tour with a board comprised of breakers and promoters. In some respects, the tour is modeled after the ATP tennis tour, PGA golf tour, NASCAR and other pro sports. Part of the charitable mandate will be the educational initiative, he explained.  The proceeds will go to UDEF to support young breakers teaching and helping people. Now check out Graham breaking:   FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesJames Fleishman James Fleishman, a former vice president at "expert network" Primary Global Research LLC, is explaining on a Reddit "Ask Me Anything" what it's like to go to prison for insider trading. Prosecutors said Fleishman acted as a middleman by introducing hedge fund traders and company execs he knew would give them illegal tips.   In September 2011, he was found guilty of one count of conspiracy to commit securities fraud and one count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud.   Fleishman was sentenced to 30 months in federal prison. He ended up having to serve just 14 months at a minimum security camp in Colorado.  Here are a few takeaways from his Reddit AMA:  On His Daily Routine:   "I had a routine of running, reading and writing. I got some naps in too!" On The Worst Part About Prison:  "The worst part was just not being able to be with my family. Missed wearing my own clothes, eating fresh fruits and vegetables, driving a car and surfing the Web." On His Workout Routine:   "I ran about thirty miles a week. I walked about twenty. I did push-up, pull-ups, dips 3-4 times a week. For me the best place was on the track walking or running laps, listening to my music at the foot of the Rockies in the desolation of the high desert plains." "Guys are really disciplined for the most part. I was a slacker compared with the routines of others. Good friend I made there lost over a hundred pounds. There is a lot of positive peer pressure. Saying you don't work out is like saying you don't usually shower!" On His Prison Job: "I made 12 cents an hour locked up in a kitchen cleaning and filling trays for folks like the Unibomber." On Special Skills He Learned:  "I learned how to make a pizza crust in a microwave using a tortilla and olive oil." On His Favorite Books He Read:  "Jonathan Tropper Nelson Mandela Mark Twain TC Boyle "Born to Run" "Man's Search for Meaning" "I only read about a book a week. I knew guys who read a book a day! Inmates are very disciplined...or many are in terms of diet, exercise and education." On Being A Diabetic In Prison:  "Was not easy. At least the meds were free! But I had very few options in terms of food and could not test my blood sugars throughout the day. I had to line up at 6am for Medical if I wanted to do so!" On What The Other Inmates Did To Get Locked Up:   "90% of the guys at the Camp in Colorado were there on drug charges. Many of them for selling pot. My bunkmate like to point out how when he was on his way to the prison to self-surrender he saw a ton of pot shops in Denver." On Whether Prison Is Really Like 'Orange Is The New Black': "I have not yet read the book but really enjoyed it on Netflix. They get a lot right--details like the blankets were identical to the ones I slept with!" Since his release, Fleishman has written a book "Inside Story: The Wall Street Criminal Who Wasn't".  Fleishman claims that he didn't commit those insider trading crimes.  "I found myself caught in an absurd injustice that saw me first accused then convicted of an Insider Trading crime I did not commit. Unlike many who pled (sic) guilty in exchange for probation, and others who cooperated with the FBI and whose lies under oath were exposed in my own trial, I chose to maintain my integrity and my innocence and paid the price, receiving a prison sentence of two and a half years," he writes on his website. He says he's currently working at a small software startup his friend runs. FREE AppDownload
Turmoil across the Middle East and parts of Africa has choked supply over the past two years, keeping Brent crude near $110 a barrel despite a broader commodity slump. Cotton and corn prices have halved, as has the UBS index of industrial metals. Such anomalies rarely last. "We estimate that crude oil is now the mostly richly priced commodity in the world," says Deutsche Bank in a fresh report. Michael Lewis, the bank's commodity strategist, said markets face an "new oil supply glut" as three forces combine. US shale will add 1m barrels a day (b/d) to global supply for the third year running; Libya will crank up shipments after a near collapse in 2013; and Iran will come out of hibernation. "This will push OPEC spare capacity to levels last seen in the depths of the financial crisis in 2009," he said. America is on track to overtake Saudi Arabia as the top global producer of oil by 2016. It will account for more than half of non-OPEC world supply this year. The US Energy Department says US oil imports will drop to 5.5m b/d by next year, half the level a decade ago. This turns the world's 89m b/d market upside-down. Deutsche Bank said Saudi Arabia may have to slash its output by a quarter to 7.5m b/d this year to stop the bottom falling out of the market. The Saudis no longer have such money to spare. They are propping up an elephantine welfare nexus to keep a lid on explosive tensions in the Eastern Province, home to Saudi oil and its aggrieved Shia minority. A cut of this size would push the budget into deep deficit. This comes as Iran makes its peace with the West. Its 30-year vendetta with US - Iran's natural ally in many ways - no longer makes sense. President Hassan Rohani is no doubt pushing his luck by describing the nuclear deal as a "surrender" to Iran by the great powers, but let him have his flourish to save face. "It does not matter what they say, it matters what they do," retorted the White House. The facts are that Mr Rohani has agreed to eliminate Iran's stocks of 20pc enriched uranium. Iran will submit to daily inspections of its Fordo enrichment site and monthly inspections of the Arak reactor. The deal is on track and the first phase will come into force next week. The UN oil sanctions have been crippling. They reduced the economy to rubble last year. The real is almost worthless. Mr Rohani is desperate to break out of the impasse. The US, in turn, is carrying out a "Kissingeresque" pirouette in its Middle East policy. President Barack Obama says he will veto any attempt by Congress to scupper the accord. Julian Jessop, from Capital Economics, says the existing sanctions cut Iranian supplies of oil by 1m to 1.5m b/d. In the end they would have knocked out up to 3m b/d in various ways. This will start to come onto the market instead as the sanctions are softened. Meanwhile, Libya is picking itself up from the floor after separatist militia forces reduced the country to anarchy last year, blockading key export terminals. The oil minister said this week that crude output has tripled since the summer to more than 600,000 b/d as the El Sharara field comes back on stream. Libya may add 1m b/d to global supply this year. Bank of America says a simultaneous return of Iran and Libya could add up to 3m b/d. Just a third of this "positive supply shock" could shave $20 off the world oil price, unless OPEC's fractious cartel can slash output quickly enough to offset it. We should expect hot words at OPEC summits, and plenty of cheating. It is hazardous to make any assumptions about Mid-East politics, not least with the Shia-Sunni conflict spreading from Iraq and Syria to threaten the whole region in what looks disturbingly like the onset of the Catholic-Lutheran showdown in Europe's Thirty Years War - a blood-letting that ended only with mutual exhaustion and bankruptcy at the Treaty of Westphalia in 1648. The uprising by Sunnis in the Iraqi region of Anbar has revived fears of a full-blown civil war. The Islamic State of Iraq and Syria has seized control of Fallujah and Ramadi. Iraqi oil output has crashed to 2m b/d as Al Qaeda attacks the Kirkuk-Ceyhan pipeline. The United Nations said 8,868 people were killed last year in Iraq, nearly all civilians. Iraq is clearly a long way from becoming a 6m b/d petro-superpower by the end of the decade, as predicted by the International Energy Agency last year. Yet the latest turmoil cuts both ways for oil prices. Any calming of tensions could lead to a rapid rebound in output. Indeed, HSBC expects Iraqi and Kurdish production to rise to 3.5m b/d by the end of the year despite the conflict. Oil bulls says global economic recovery is strong enough to soak up any rise in supply. Perhaps, but Simon Ward at Henderson Global Investors says the world money supply rolled over in November and is now flashing amber warnings. His key gauge - real six-month M1 - for the G7 rich states and E7 emerging market economies has slowed to 2.3pc from 3.7pc last May. It acts as an early warning indicator, six months ahead. This suggest that global growth may soon fade. "Global risks are rising. The cycle already looks mature by historical standards," he said. The growth of broad M3 money in the US has slowed to 4.6pc even before Fed tapering cuts off stimulus. In the eurozone it is has been near zero for the past six months. The latest data from China are very weak, with M2 growth falling to 13.6pc in December from 14.2pc in November as the authorities tighten. It is the change in pace that matters. China looks eerily like the US in 2007 when broad money buckled. The sheer scale of money creation in China has worldwide implications. Zhang Monan from the China Foundation says the money supply is 200pc of GDP, and 1.5 times larger than the US money supply in absolute terms. She said debt deflation is now setting in as the central bank tries to rein in credit. As readers know, my view is that China is riding a $24 trillion credit tiger that it cannot control. Fresh data show that fixed investment surged to $5 trillion last year, more than in the US and Europe combined. This implies yet more excess capacity, transmitting a deflationary impulse worldwide. A sudden slide in oil prices against this background may not be entirely benign. While it will boost spending power in the US and Europe, we also know from academic studies that oil shocks are asymmetric at first. The losers take an immediate hit, and that will be Bahrain, Nigeria and Algeria with a “fiscal break-even point” above $120, Russia at $117 and Venezuela at $110, among others. Some will face crises. The winners in Europe, America and Japan will enjoy slower and less concentrated gains. It is, in any case, double-edged. The risk is that it will "unhinge" inflation expectations as the headline rate keeps dropping. Half of Europe already has one foot in deflation, with prices falling over the past five months once austerity taxes are stripped out. Any shock at this point could start to frighten the horses. Albert Edwards, from Societe Generale, said investors are strangely nonchalant about the deflation risk, seemingly taking it for granted that there is no risk of recession and that central banks can and will bail out equities. "They do not seem to care that they are sitting on the edge of a cliff. They believe with all their heart that we are at the start of a self-sustained recovery," he said. To avoid confusion, let me be clear that the dangers of dwindling oil supplies in the long-run have not gone away. Easy reserves of crude are being depleted. New fields are more costly. Peak oil may have the last laugh. Yet this should not be confused with the short-term risks of deflationary shock. I recently attended a Transatlantic Dialogue on Energy Security with senior military officers in London and Washington. The message was that shale will come and go - with US tight gas peaking by 2017 - creating a false sense of security as the deeper strategic threat continues to build. That is broadly my view as well. Much drama can intrude along the way.  FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Thomas PeterA man holds a suitcase with the logo of the German lender Deutsche Bank during a protest by the Attac pressure group outside the Chancellery in Berlin demanding from G20 summit participants the implementation of a unitary tax to fight tax evasion, September 5, 2013. FRANKFURT (Reuters) - Deutsche Bank &lt;DBKGn.DE&gt; posted a surprise pre-tax loss of 1.153 billion euros for the fourth quarter of 2013 due to heavy costs for litigation, restructuring and balance sheet reduction. The bank said that litigation expenses cost 528 million euros in the quarter while adjustments to the value of credit, debt and funding produced another 623 million euros in costs, and restructuring costs added a 509 billion euro burden. Revenue for the group fell 16 percent to 6.580 billion euros, due in part to weakness in its corporate banking and securities division, the bank said in a statement. The unexpected loss is likely to compound the problems that have dogged the bank over the past year, especially a lengthening list of lawsuits and regulatory matters, and redouble pressure on co-chief executives Anshu Jain and Juergen Fitschen to prove their turnaround plan is on track. The bank was originally scheduled to report its results on January 29. Deutsche Bank's U.S.-listed shares closed down 3 percent at $52.27 on Friday on the New York Stock Exchange after the Wall Street Journal reported that a profit warning was possible. (Reporting by Thomas Atkins; Editing by Kevin Liffey) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Patrick Semansk Fifty years ago, President Lyndon B. Johnson made a move that was unprecedented at the time and remains unmatched by succeeding administrations. He announced a War on Poverty, saying that its “chief weapons” would be “better schools, and better health, and better homes, and better training, and better job opportunities.” So starting in 1964 and for almost a decade, the federal government poured at least some of its resources in the direction they should have been going all along: toward those who were most in need. Longstanding programs like Head Start, Legal Services, and the Job Corps were created. Medicaid was established. Poverty among seniors was significantly reduced by improvements in Social Security. Johnson seemed to have established the principle that it is the responsibility of government to intervene on behalf of the disadvantaged and deprived. But there was never enough money for the fight against poverty, and Johnson found himself increasingly distracted by another and deadlier war—the one in Vietnam. Although underfunded, the War on Poverty still managed to provoke an intense backlash from conservative intellectuals and politicians. In their view, government programs could do nothing to help the poor because poverty arises from the twisted psychology of the poor themselves. By the Reagan era, it had become a cornerstone of conservative ideology that poverty is caused not by low wages or a lack of jobs and education, but by the bad attitudes and faulty lifestyles of the poor. Picking up on this theory, pundits and politicians have bemoaned the character failings and bad habits of the poor for at least the past 50 years. In their view, the poor are shiftless, irresponsible, and prone to addiction. They have too many children and fail to get married. So if they suffer from grievous material deprivation, if they run out of money between paychecks, if they do not always have food on their tables—then they have no one to blame but themselves. In the 1990s, with a bipartisan attack on welfare, this kind of prejudice against the poor took a drastically misogynistic turn. Poor single mothers were identified as a key link in what was called “the cycle of poverty.” By staying at home and collecting welfare, they set a toxic example for their children, who—important policymakers came to believe—would be better off being cared for by paid child care workers or even, as Newt Gingrich proposed, in orphanages. Welfare “reform” was the answer, and it was intended not only to end financial support for imperiled families, but also to cure the self-induced “culture of poverty” that was supposedly at the root of their misery. The original welfare reform bill—a bill, it should be recalled, which was signed by President Bill Clinton—included an allocation of $100 million for “chastity training” for low-income women. The Great Recession should have put the victim-blaming theory of poverty to rest. In the space of only a few months, millions of people entered the ranks of the officially poor—not only laid-off blue-collar workers, but also downsized tech workers, managers, lawyers, and other once-comfortable professionals. No one could accuse these “nouveau poor” Americans of having made bad choices or bad lifestyle decisions. They were educated, hardworking, and ambitious, and now they were also poor—applying for food stamps, showing up in shelters, lining up for entry-level jobs in retail. This would have been the moment for the pundits to finally admit the truth: Poverty is not a character failing or a lack of motivation. Poverty is a shortage of money. For most women in poverty, in both good times and bad, the shortage of money arises largely from inadequate wages. When I worked on my book, Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America, I took jobs as a waitress, nursing-home aide, hotel housekeeper, Wal-Mart associate, and a maid with a house-cleaning service. I did not choose these jobs because they were low-paying. I chose them because these are the entry-level jobs most readily available to women. What I discovered is that in many ways, these jobs are a trap: They pay so little that you cannot accumulate even a couple of hundred dollars to help you make the transition to a better-paying job. They often give you no control over your work schedule, making it impossible to arrange for child care or take a second job. And in many of these jobs, even young women soon begin to experience the physical deterioration—especially knee and back problems—that can bring a painful end to their work life. I was also dismayed to find that in some ways, it is actually more expensive to be poor than not poor. If you can’t afford the first month’s rent and security deposit you need in order to rent an apartment, you may get stuck in an overpriced residential motel. If you don’t have a kitchen or even a refrigerator and microwave, you will find yourself falling back on convenience store food, which—in addition to its nutritional deficits—is also alarmingly overpriced. If you need a loan, as most poor people eventually do, you will end up paying an interest rate many times more than what a more affluent borrower would be charged. To be poor—especially with children to support and care for—is a perpetual high-wire act. Most private-sector employers offer no sick days, and many will fire a person who misses a day of work, even to stay home with a sick child. A nonfunctioning car can also mean lost pay and sudden expenses. A broken headlight invites a ticket, plus a fine greater than the cost of a new headlight, and possible court costs. If a creditor decides to get nasty, a court summons may be issued, often leading to an arrest warrant. No amount of training in financial literacy can prepare someone for such exigencies—or make up for an income that is impossibly low to start with. Instead of treating low-wage mothers as the struggling heroines they are, our political culture still tends to view them as miscreants and contributors to the “cycle of poverty.” If anything, the criminalization of poverty has accelerated since the recession, with growing numbers of states drug testing applicants for temporary assistance, imposing steep fines for school truancy, and imprisoning people for debt. Such measures constitute a cruel inversion of the Johnson-era principle that it is the responsibility of government to extend a helping hand to the poor. Sadly, this has become the means by which the wealthiest country in the world manages to remain complacent in the face of alarmingly high levels of poverty: by continuing to blame poverty not on the economy or inadequate social supports, but on the poor themselves. It’s time to revive the notion of a collective national responsibility to the poorest among us, who are disproportionately women and especially women of color. Until that happens, we need to wake up to the fact that the underpaid women who clean our homes and offices, prepare and serve our meals, and care for our elderly—earning wages that do not provide enough to live on—are the true philanthropists of our society. FREE AppDownload
BloombergECRI's Lakshman AchuthanThe Weekly Leading Index (WLI) of the Economic Cycle Research Institute (ECRI) is at 134.5, up from last week's 133.4 (an upward revision from 133.0). The WLI annualized growth indicator (WLIg) to one decimal place rose to 3.7, up from last week's 2.5. Last year ECRI switched focus to their version of the Big Four Economic Indicators that I routinely track. But when those failed last summer to "roll over" collectively (as ECRI claimed was happening), the company published a new set of indicators to support their recession call in a commentary entitled The U.S. Business Cycle in the Context of the Yo-Yo Years (PDF format). Subsequently the company took a new approach to its recession call in a publicly available commentary on the ECRI website: What Wealth Effect?. That commentary includes a brief discussion of the Personal Consumption Expenditure (PCE) deflator, which I've discussed in more detail here. It also includes an illustration of the shrinkage in US imports since the post-recession peak nearly three years ago. In early November of last year, after about three months of hibernation, ECRI co-founder spokesman Lakshman Achuthan appeared on Bloomberg TV, reaffirming his company's recession call. ECRI's Latest Public Commentary  Earlier this week (January 14th), ECRI posted a brief commentary accompanied by a rather curious chart that supposedly compares the extent of revisions to the monthly PAYEMS data (Nonfarm Payrolls) from the Establishment Survey to the CE16OV data (Civilian Employment) from the Household Survey. The accompanying claim (which has little relationship to the chart) is that "Even ignoring December data, the household survey, which sees far smaller revisions, counts a million fewer jobs created over the prior 12 months than the establishment survey." Of course this is an apples-to-oranges comparison of radically different data sources, methodologies and definitions of employment; however, it touches on some interesting facts that bear further scrutiny. The two charts below show half a century of employment data. The first is the PAYEMS MoM percent change, data from the monthly survey of business and government. The second is the equivalent CE16OV chart of Civilian Employment Age 16-and-Over (non-military, non-institutionalized) from the monthly survey of households. The second chart is dramatically the more volatile of the two, which is largely a function of the shifting survey participants.         The ECRI commentary on the topic makes the following point: Again, these are different surveys, different methodologies, different target populations, and different definitions of employment. It should come as no surprise that ECRI thumbs its nose at Nonfarm Employment in favor of the ditzy volatility of Household Survey, which showed a major dip during the October shutdown. But let's remember that the official arbiter of Recessions, the NBER, is on record as using the Nonfarm Employment series in their deliberations, which is not surprising, given the extreme volatility of the Household Survey alternative. Note its frequent substantial monthly declines during non-recessionary periods. I'll conclude this topic with an overlay of the 12-month moving averages of PAYEMS and CE16OV percent change since the turn of the century.     ECRI's Second Thoughts on When the Recession Started (and Ended?) In addition to ECRI's published observations on employment data, spokesman Achuthan appeared on Canada's Business News Network on January 15th, where he appears to have adjusted his recession call, moving the "epicenter of the recession" from the middle of 2012 to the 4th quarter of 2012 and the 1st quarter of 2013. He appears now to see the recession as a mild one that ended after the first quarter of 2013. A video of the CBN appearance is available here. Achuthan's recession argument continues to count on subsequent downward revisions to GDP. The ECRI Indicator Year-over-Year Here is a chart of ECRI's data that illustrates why the company's published proprietary indicator has little credibility as a recession indicator. It's the smoothed year-over-year percent change since 2000 of their weekly leading index. I've highlighted the 2011 date of ECRI's recession call and the hypothetical July 2012 business cycle peak, which the company claims was the start of a recession.     As for the disconnect between the stock market and the recession that ECRI claims began in July 2012, Achuthan has repeated pointed out the market can rise during recessions. See for example the 2:05 minute point in the November 4th video. The next chart gives us a visualization of the S&amp;P 500 during the nine recessions since the S&amp;P 500 was initiated in 1957. I've included a dotted line to show how the index has performed since ERIC's July 2012 recession start date. The trough in ECRI's recession came nine market days after the start -- down 2.0%.     Here are some notable developments since ECRI's public recession call on September 30, 2011, now well beyond its second anniversary: My opinion remains unchanged: The ECRI's credibility depends on major downward revisions to the key economic indicators. The July 2013 annual revisions to GDP weren't adequate to substantiate ECRI's position. On the other hand, I would point out that a standard data manipulation of Real GDP, the rear-view mirror on the economy that popular thought associates with recession calls, underscores current economic weakness -- or to put it more euphemistically, "slow growth". I'm referring to the year-over-year GDP percent change (the chart below). The latest GDP update (through the Q3 Third Estimate) shows the current data point is lower than at the onset of nine of the eleven recessions since the inception of quarterly GDP.     We get a similarly weak picture in the YoY Real Final Sales (which excludes changes in private inventories). Here are two snapshots of this quarterly indicator: The complete series since 1948 and a per-capita version since 1960 (the start date of the Census Bureau's mid-month population estimates):         Given the weak growth of real disposable personal incomes per capita, the lethargy of Real Final Sales comes as no surprise. For alternatives to ECRI's recession forecasting, see method developed by Anton and Georg Vrba: See also Dwaine Van Vuuren's latest RecessionALERT indicator snapshot:   Despite the increasing irrelevance of the ECRI's recession indicators in recent years, let's check them out. The first chart below shows the history of the Weekly Leading Index and highlights its current level.     For a better understanding of the relationship of the WLI level to recessions, the next chart shows the data series in terms of the percent off the previous peak. In other words, a new weekly high registers at 100%, with subsequent declines plotted accordingly.     As the chart above illustrates, only once has a recession occurred without the index level achieving a new high -- the two recessions, commonly referred to as a "double-dip," in the early 1980s. Our current level is 11.9% off the most recent high, which was set over five years ago in June 2007. We're now tied with the previously longest stretch between highs, which was from February 1973 to April 1978. But the index level rose steadily from the trough at the end of the 1973-1975 recession to reach its new high in 1978. The pattern in ECRI's indictor is quite different, and this has no doubt been a key factor in their business cycle analysis. The WLIg Metric The best known of ECRI's indexes is their growth calculation on the WLI. For a close look at this index in recent months, here's a snapshot of the data since 2000.     Now let's step back and examine the complete series available to the public, which dates from 1967. ECRI's WLIg metric has had a respectable record for forecasting recessions and rebounds therefrom. The next chart shows the correlation between the WLI, GDP and recessions.     The History of ECRI's Latest Recession Call ECRI's weekly leading index has become a major focus and source of controversy ever since September 30, 2011, when ECRI publicly announced that the U.S. is tipping into a recession, a call the Institute had announced to its private clients on September 21st. Here is an excerpt from the announcement: Year-over-Year Growth in the WLI Triggered by another ECRI commentary, Why Our Recession Call Stands, I now include a snapshot of the year-over-year growth of the WLI rather than ECRI's previously favored method of calculating the WLIg series from the underlying WLI (see the endnote below). Specifically the chart immediately below is the year-over-year change in the 4-week moving average of the WLI. The red dots highlight the YoY value for the month when recessions began.     The WLI YoY is now at 4.1%, which is higher than the onset of six of the seven recessions in the chart timeframe, although well off its 7.5% interim high set in mid-June. The second half of the early 1980s double dip, which was to some extent an engineered recession to break the back of inflation, is a conspicuous outlier in this series, and it started at a WLI YoY of 4.1%. Additional Sources for Recession Forecasts Dwaine van Vuuren, CEO of RecessionAlert.com, and his collaborators, including Georg Vrba and Franz Lischka, have developed a powerful recession forecasting methodology that shows promise of making forecasts with fewer false positives, which I take to include excessively long lead times, such as ECRI's September 2011 recession call. Here is today's update of Georg Vrba's analysis, which is explained in more detail in this article.     Earlier Video Chronology of ECRI's Recession Call   Note: How to Calculate the Growth series from the Weekly Leading Index ECRI's weekly Excel spreadsheet includes the WLI and the Growth series, but the latter is a series of values without the underlying calculations. After a collaborative effort by Franz Lischka, Georg Vrba, Dwaine van Vuuren and Kishor Bhatia to model the calculation, Georg discovered the actual formula in a 1999 article published by Anirvan Banerji, the Chief Research Officer at ECRI: "The three Ps: simple tools for monitoring economic cycles - pronounced, pervasive and persistent economic indicators." Here is the formula: FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsIT IS no secret that equity analysts at banks do not always give the best investment advice. In 2001 Eliot Spitzer, the attorney-general of New York state, exposed their habit of heaping praise on undeserving firms with which their colleagues hoped to do business. Some had advised clients to buy stocks they had referred to in private as "junk", "crap" and "shit". But it is hard to talk up dud firms when markets are falling, and anyway, there is little business to be won at such times. So it might have been reasonable to assume that analysts' recommendations are better in bearish markets than bullish ones. New research, alas, suggests this is not so: the advice analysts give in bad times seems to be even worse than the boosterism they peddle in good.* Roger Loh of Singapore Management University and René Stulz of Ohio State University looked at analysts' forecasts of profits and the buy or sell recommendations they issued for the period 1983-2011. Their predictions, it turned out, were less reliable in falling markets than in rising ones, even after making allowances for increased volatility in such times. Analysts' forecasts of profits for the next quarter were out by 46% more during periods of financial crisis than at other times, for instance. The drop in accuracy may be linked to cuts in research budgets. During downturns banks spend less on research. For instance, in the most recent crisis budgets were cut by around 40%, according to Neil Scarth at Frost Consulting, largely by replacing more experienced (and more expensive) analysts with younger, greener ones. The fear of being fired may also befuddle rather than focus minds. Ironically enough, Messrs Loh and Stulz also found that investors pay more attention to analysts' opinions when times are tough. Normally only one change in ten in analysts' stock recommendations moves the price of the share in question. But the proportion increases to one in seven in falling markets, even though there are more changes during market routs. Just as drivers value maps more when it is foggy, investors pay more heed to research during periods of increased uncertainty, reckons Mr Stulz. Unfortunately for them, that is also when their maps are most likely to be wrong. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
People often have strong feelings about how much different types of professionals should earn. Notably, a driving factor in the Occupy Wall Street movement was the belief that corporate executives and finance workers earned far more than their fair share. In a new Business Insider/SurveyMonkey Audience poll, we showed the mean income for about 50 occupations to about 400 respondents and asked them to rate these jobs as very overpaid, somewhat overpaid, paid about right, somewhat underpaid, or very underpaid. The results were not exactly surprising. 77.3% of people said that financial managers, with a mean income of $123,260, were very or somewhat overpaid. CEOs, financial analysts, real estate brokers, lawyers, and other professionals were not far behind. 89.9% of people said that agricultural workers, with a mean income of $21,920, were very or somewhat underpaid. Jobs in childcare, restaurants, factories, and schools were among the most underpaid jobs. Check it out: Mike Nudelman / Business Insider Popular opinion has a limited effect on income in America, but it is worth considering. Politicians can promote equality through policies like a higher minimum wage and higher taxes on the rich, and companies might consider raising wages themselves to build goodwill and a stronger workforce in the long run or if the government paid them to do it. We also asked a different set of respondents to rate jobs without showing them mean income, which for many high end jobs produced stronger opinions that those jobs are overpaid, suggesting that people think things are more unbalanced than they really are. Our full survey results are embedded below.  Thumbnail image from maxintosh via Flickr creative commons.
REUTERS//KremlinMOSCOW (Reuters) - Russian President Vladimir Putin denied that any large-scale corruption surrounded the Sochi Winter Olympics and challenged those with allegations of misconduct to come forward with proof. Western and Russian opposition critics have made allegations that large amounts of money have been stolen during construction for the 2014 Olympics in the Black Sea city, but have provided little concrete evidence. Some Olympic subcontractors have said corruption has been endemic during preparations for the games, which start on February7. "We don't see any large-scale instances of corruption during our preparations ...in Sochi. If anyone has any information about corruption in Sochi, please hand it over, we will be glad and grateful," Putin said in an interview with ABC, BBC and Russian and Chinese journalists broadcast on Sunday. "A few years ago local bureaucrats tried to buy and sell land intended for Olympic venues. Investigations were carried out, these people were tried by Russian courts and are serving their punishments." Russia has spent more than $50 billion on preparations for the Winter Games, making them the most expensive in Olympic history. Putin's government hopes to show the world a modern face of Russia, which has faced increased criticism from the West over human rights. A law passed last year banning the promotion of homosexuality among minors has drawn criticism from the West and human rights activists. Calls for a mass boycott of the games have failed, but the row has clouded the build-up to the event. Critics say the law is discriminatory and part of a rolling back of human rights and democratic freedoms under Putin, who has taken a more conservative course on social issues since returning to the presidency in mid-2012 Putin said on Sunday he has gay acquaintances and would be happy to meet members of the U.S. Olympic delegation, which includes openly homosexual athletes. "I will be glad to see the representatives of any country, including those of the United States, there is no doubt about this. If they have any desire to meet, to talk about anything, for the love of God, I don't see any problem," he said. In a separate interview with the BBC broadcast in London, Putin said: "If you want my personal attitude I don't care about a person's sexual orientation. I myself know some people who are gay. We are on friendly terms. I am not prejudiced in any way." Asked whether he would meet gay British celebrities like singer Elton John and actor Ian McKellen if they travelled to Russia to discuss his policies towards homosexuals, he said he would "definitely" talk to them. "I've honored several members of the gay community in this country but for their personal achievements regardless of their sexual orientation," said Putin. With less than three weeks to go before the start of the games, Putin said while all of Sochi's venues had been completed, the host city still needed some cleaning. "Everything has been done, now we have to get things in order: organize the work of hotels, remove construction equipment, construction waste, that is prepare like any host or hostess does before having guests." (Additional reporting by Andrew Osborn in London, Editing by Rosalind Russell)   FREE AppDownload
Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from St. Louis Fed)Chart 1: Those not in the labor force who currently want a job.The unemployment rate has been falling sharply alongside a sizable drop in labor force participation. The labor force participation rate is the ratio of Americans counted in the labor force to the total civilian noninstitutional adult population, while the unemployment rate is the ratio of those without a job who are counted in the labor force (i.e., unemployed and searching for work) to the total labor force. Because the labor force is expanding at a slower rate than the population, the participation rate is going down. And because the ranks of the unemployed are falling as the labor force expands, the unemployment rate is going down. One of the overarching concerns in this recovery has been the large wave of unemployed workers who, in the wake of the recession, were unable to find a job for an extended period of time, became discouraged, and gave up looking for work. This caused them to cease being counted as (a) in the labor force and (b) among the ranks of the unemployed, thereby causing both the participation rate and the unemployment rate to drop. Most of the drop in the labor force participation rate can be attributed to demographics — workers from the "baby boomer" generation are retiring, and disability is rising as the population ages). However, the surge in discouraged workers outside the labor force — from a nadir of 4.4 million in October 2007 to peak levels just under 7.0 million in August 2012 (Chart 1) — has had a substantial impact on how the employment figures are calculated. In December, the unemployment rate was 6.7% and the labor force participation rate was 62.8%. Where would the two figures be if all of the discouraged workers that left the labor force since October 2007 came back, and were officially counted as unemployed? Chart 2 shows that the participation rate would be a 0.7 percentage points higher, at 63.5%. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from St. Louis Fed)Chart 2: The actual labor force participation rate (blue line) versus where it would be if all of the discouraged workers that left since October 2007 came back (red line). Chart 3 shows that the unemployment rate, meanwhile, would be a full percentage point higher, at 7.7%. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from St. Louis Fed)Chart 3: The actual unemployment rate (blue line) versus where it would be if all of the discouraged workers that left since October 2007 came back (red line). Could unemployment rise going forward if a wave of previously discouraged workers re-enters the labor force? Drew Matus, deputy chief U.S. economist at UBS, thinks this is unlikely. "Although we believe that there could be a modest cyclical rise in participation as the economy improves, we believe the likely scale of the increase will not significantly alter the basic equation: payroll growth averaging 200,000 per month should continue to pull down the unemployment rate under all but the most aggressive labor force expansion estimates," says Matus. "As a consequence, the unemployment rate should continue to decline and there is downside risk to our year-end 2014 forecast unemployment rate of 6.4%." FREE AppDownload
 REUTERS/Mike BlakeThe housing recovery we've seen in the past couple of years has largely been driven by the West Coast. Home prices in California plunged 42% from their March 2008 peak during the downturn, and then rebounded 36%.  Prices surged not only because of the extreme drop in prices during the downturn, but also because of "the efficient disposition of distressed homes, low non-distressed inventory, economic recovery, and foreign/second home demand," writes Michelle Meyer, an economist at BofA Merrill Lynch, in a note to clients. But housing affordability has started to fall. Only one-third of California's households can afford to buy a house, and only 21% in San Francisco can afford to make a purchase now.   "Prices in the San Francisco metro area have already exceeded the pre-crisis peak and set a new record high," says Meyer. "This reflects low inventory and a minimal amount of distressed activity — only 4.5% of sales are distressed, and it takes less than 2 months to clear the distressed supply." California's home price growth is expected to slow in 2014, and California is a leading indicator for the overall housing market. "This is consistent with our view that national home price appreciation will slow to about 5% this year, from the current run rate of nearly 14% year over year in 2013," says Meyer. FREE AppDownload
Screenshot I spent the first two weeks of this month ignoring my conventional Capital One checking account. Instead, I did all my banking through a company called Simple. Before we get into what Simple is, let's be clear on what it is not. Although Simple is designed to replace your bank (and does so quite well, I argue), it's not a proper bank itself. Your money sits in FDIC-insured accounts maintained by Simple's banking partners, but this is distinctly separate from what Simple really is — a company that provides free tools for checking your balance, depositing checks, tagging and categorizing your purchases, and even sending paper checks through the mail at no cost. Simple is the user-friendly and intuitive interface that sits on top of all that ugly financial machinery that we still rely on. Now imagine if all your banking complaints and inconveniences disappeared and everything just worked. This describes my experience so far using Simple — easy, as in iPhone easy. It's changed the way I interact with my money and I'm recommending it to friends like mad. I started my Simple account off with a $100 transfer from my bank account. A Simple Visa debit card arrived later in the mail, and now we're cooking. You just have to use your Simple card as a debit card — that's what it is, after all. It didn't take long for me to learn that those pesky bank transfers take a number of days to complete. This makes it important to time them wisely, as you'll soon see. Simple makes use of a metric called Safe-To-Spend, a number that answers the question, "How much can I spend today without getting in trouble tomorrow?" Simple knows not only your balance, but is also aware of upcoming expenses like rent, saving for a car, etc. So if you have a $1,000 balance but rent's due next week and you're putting aside a little money every day to take the significant other out this weekend, Simple will know that you've actually got $200 or so. Simple scores a home run by prominently featuring your Safe-To-Spend total at the top of the app, plainly visible for when you need that one piece of information in a jiffy. To be clear, Safe-To-Spend is not a proper balance because it's weighing your future savings and expenses as well. You have more than is "safe to spend." But isn't that always true? Simple customers have fee-free access to the Allpoint ATM network, made up of machines operating out of brand-name storefronts like CVS and 7-11 as well as innumerable oddball restaurants and shops. Urbanites will likely have the most success here given the proliferation of ATMs across a major city, but there are thousands around the country. You won't have to look hard for a compatible ATM. In fact, you simply pull up the in-app ATM locator. It will show you as a familiar blue dot on a map and your nearby ATMs as red pins. After that, you just navigate yourself there and use the ATM just like you would any other ATM. (But for free!) ScreenshotSimple's "Goals" feature is more comprehensive than some standalone banking apps in their entirety. "Goals" lets you save money for whatever you want, be it a vacation or a nice dinner, by asking for two key pieces of information — how much do you need and when do you need it? Once fed with this data, Goals will silently move a daily contribution toward each of your active goals. I regularly use mine to set aside money for paying the rent, my cell phone bill, Internet bill, or any other long-term purchase. If you want to reduce the daily burden (or just speed the process along), you can throw a lump sum of money from your Safe-To-Spend toward a specific goal. If you're planning to squirrel away $15 a day to treat yourself to an expensive dress at the end of the month, you can hypothetically start yourself off with $100. Goals is smart enough to recalculate your daily contribution, now reduced so as to meet the nearer dollar target on the same timeline. Dylan LoveMy $100 check to Steve arrived in the mail — monetary harmony restored.An infernally slow transfer from my Capital One account was taking longer to arrive in my Simple account than I'd like, so my colleague Steve Kovach floated me $100 interest-free to see me through my short-lived tough patch. He piped it over to me through Venmo, a money transmission app that I have configured to talk to my Simple bank account. After his digital dollars arrived via Venmo, I transferred them to my Simple account. The process can still take a measure of days, but my balance was restored to a more promising number in short order. Once my worldly treasures landed in my Simple account, I made out a $100 check to Steve right inside the app by typing in his name, his address, and how much money to send. A fulfillment service took this information to print up a paper check and drop it in the mail to him. He got it a few days later. Simple customers can move money between each other's accounts instantly and for free. The last week of every month, my superintendent slips a rent receipt under everyone's door. For as long as I've lived in my apartment, the protocol has been to sign the receipt and mail it to the management company, accompanied by a rent check. After I explained my rent situation to Simple customer service — that it would require me to receive the check first before sending it off with that all-important receipt — she told me to add the management company as a contact and use my own name and address as a c/o. Flexibility! When it comes to depositing the occasional paper check, you no longer have to choose between standing at an ATM with a bundle of envelopes or talking to a person behind bulletproof glass. Simple offers a third choice, already found in many smartphone apps by other banks: the ability to deposit a check just by taking a picture of it. Your smartphone camera is good enough and a check's routing number is visible enough that a lot of the deposit process can be handled by a computer. After photographing the front and back of a check (yes, you still need to endorse it and write your account number on the back), your check can be considered "deposited." The first $200 of the check is available to you tomorrow, the rest available the day after. What to do with your check after depositing it? Tear it up and throw it away. The speed bumps associated with depositing cash represent the closest thing Simple has to an Achilles heel. Because there are no physical branch locations, there's no designated place to go to put your cash directly into a Simple account. While its website says there are occasional in-network ATMs that can handle cash deposits, they seem so few and far between that your best bet will be to operate as if they don't exist. Short of giving a friend all your cash and having him or her write you a check that you can deposit in-app, you can buy a money order and deposit it into your account the same way. Yes, it's hardly convenient, but it wasn't a dealbreaker for me. Over the course of my experiment, I needed to deposit cash exactly zero times. In fact, I can't remember the last time I deposited cash at all. And given that Simple intentionally shuns the physical — no branches, no Simple-specific ATMs — it seems unreasonable to fault it for one inconvenience associated with physical money, especially when there's a completely workable solution. If you deal in lots of cash (waiters, bartenders, and their currency-heavy ilk), you'll most likely want to look elsewhere. For the majority of people for whom cash isn't much of a concern, welcome home. ScreenshotYou can lock your ATM card with one button push inside the app. Forget that tedious process of calling up your bank, answering questions about addresses you lived at 10 years ago, and sinking all that time into the process of canceling a lost card. Your Simple card can be blocked and unblocked from right inside the app with the touch of one button. You gotta love an in-app customer service panic button. I called a few times for largely innocuous reasons, but my calls were always answered promptly and cheerfully. And if talking isn't your thing, you can send non-time-sensitive queries to customer service reps via an in-app messaging system. Despite lack of physical locations, Simple doesn't hurt for customer service at all. I refer you to the company's FAQ: As Simple explains it, this system means that "we only make money when our customers use and love their accounts." Simple has common-sense policies, almost no fees to speak of, and a diligent customer service team who run the type of banking operation it seems they'd want to be a part of. Name one conventional bank that can also claim all of this. I also detected something of a weird psychological benefit to managing your money through Simple — where my lump sum of savings were previously sitting amidst millions of other lump sums belonging to individuals, businesses, nonprofits, and all order of money-wielding entities, it's now sitting in a pretty little box that's entirely my own with no outside distractions. I'm not being upsold on credit cards and loans. Simple provides a totally distraction-free snapshot of the state of your finances, and in the two short weeks I've been using it, I already feel like a better steward of my money. The next time I touch Capital One, it will be to close my account. This is awesome. FREE AppDownload
A Verifone device.NEW YORK (Reuters) - A data breach at Target Corp that exposed the credit card information of tens of millions of holiday shoppers was a major black eye for the retailer. In its wake, investors and analysts are circling companies that could benefit from a major upgrade in credit card technology. One of their favorites: Verifone Systems Inc, a $3.2 billion market cap company that is one of two major global manufacturers of point-of-sale terminals and mobile payments systems and could profit from any major upgrades of payment technology. Analysts at JPMorgan Chase and Jefferies &amp; Co upgraded their outlook for the company in the last 10 days, helping send its shares price up about 25 percent since the Target breach was first reported on December 18. Yet for its shares to continue to rally, Verifone must prove to analysts and portfolio managers it has taken steps to right its own ship after several years of choppy performance. That question mark is a product of several years of poor acquisitions and a history of missing earnings estimates that left the company's shares down more than 20 percent for the year just before the Target breach become public - in a bullish year for stocks. It hangs over the company as a new wave of credit card technology looks poised to finally make inroads in the U.S. after being the standard in Europe for years. "Verifone has a tremendous and recently unappreciated position in the industry, yet it's kind of a messy place. The new management team looks great, but this is like waiting for Godot," said Jeffrey Bronchick, whose $56.3 million Cove Street Small Cap Value fund has one of the best performances in its category over the last three years, according to Morningstar data. In the Samuel Beckett play, two characters wait endlessly for Godot, who never shows up. Verifone declined to make executives available for this article. Bronchick said that he sold his position in the company during its recent rally in large part because, at approximately $29 a share, its stock price looks expensive. The stock trades at a forward price-to-earnings ratio of 19.5, which is well above the approximately 16 times multiple of the broad market. "The stock is reflecting a seamless next two years and I think there's little likelihood of it," he said. TECHNOLOGY UPGRADE The bullish case for Verifone rests largely on expectations that the slow-to-change credit card industry is set to adopt new technology that could cut fraud in the United States. The country accounts for nearly half of global credit card fraud despite handling only 27 percent of all card volume, said Darrin Peller, an analyst at Barclays who covers the industry. Merchants, retailers and credit card issuers have long resisted upgrading to a card system, now ubiquitous in Europe, that stores information on chips embedded in the cards themselves. Rather than relying on the easily copied magnetic stripe on the back of cards, these cards, called EMV for Europay, Mastercard, Visa, create a new code for every transaction, making it difficult for hackers to duplicate. As an incentive to push card issuers to upgrade, Visa has warned that merchants' banks may start bearing the costs of fraud starting in October 2015 if the merchants don't upgrade. Some Verifone terminals were in use at Target locations, according to Peller, the Barclays analyst. That investigation continues and Peller said it was unclear whether they were involved in the data breach, but he did not expect Verifone to face liabilities in connection with the loss. Target said on January 10 it could not yet estimate the costs it would face in relation to the breach. The company did not respond to a request for comment or say what terminals it used. Verifone declined to comment for this article. The data breach at Target has created "a growing sense of urgency" among merchants to upgrade their point-of-sale terminals in order to read EMV cards, noted Andrew Jeffrey, an analyst at SunTrust Robinson Humphrey. "For the first time, we get the feeling that the cost of conversion is being outweighed by the open-ended liability associated with making consumers whole when their accounts are compromised, and the potential damage to retailer's brands," Jeffrey noted. An implementation of the EMV system in the U.S. would push merchants into buying 15 million to 20 million credit card terminals, said Peller, the Barclays analyst. Those purchases - which Peller says large companies would split between Verifone and French company Ingenico, its main competitor - would likely help turn around Verifone's solutions services division. Revenues in that part of the business fell 20 percent, to slightly below $1.07 billion, in its fiscal year that ended in October. "Verifone could see around $100 million or more in incremental annual revenue for a few years from its existing U.S. installed base, with longer-term upside from market-share gains and services revenue over time," Peller noted in a report published in 2012. He said the estimate is still reasonable. NEW MANAGEMENT That upgrade process would likely help Verifone investors more than Ingenico shareholders largely because several years of poor management have depressed Verifone's stock price, said David Rudow, an analyst who works on the $968 million Thrivent Mid Cap fund. He sees new CEO Paul Galant, who came on board September 23 after heading up Citigroup's enterprise payments business, as more capable of steering the business than its previous management team, which Rudow said ignored product cycles and focused too much on next-generation mobile payment systems at the expense of the more profitable terminal business. "If you look at stock charts, Ingenico is a beautiful chart - straight up - and Verifone is the opposite," he said. Ingenico's shares rose 44 percent in 12 months to new all-time highs and are up 450 percent over the last five years. Despite their relative stock performance, Verifone and Ingenico have remarkably similar product lines and are the two largest providers in nearly all markets they compete in, he said. The idea that "execution issues experienced by Verifone are eminently 'fixable'" prompted Bradley Safalow, founder of Atlanta-based research firm PAA Advisors, to recommend a short position on Ingenico in November. He expects the company's share price, currently trading at nearly 66 euros, to fall to 35 euros as Verifone continues its turnaround. Jason Kupferberg, an analyst at Jefferies, said Galant will likely take steps to standardize products across Verifone's global regions, allowing the company to cut by half the number of distinct products it offers and cut costs as well. Verifone said in December that it expects to earn up to $1.40 in net income per share in its 2014 fiscal year, a figure 10 percent below Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S estimates of $1.56 per share. "This management team looks like it's trying to under-promise and over-deliver and is being very conservative in their guidance," said Joshua Schachter, whose $90.1 million Snow Capital Small Cap Value fund has been adding to its position in Verifone. VALUATION CONCERNS The Verifone rally following the Target breach has led some analysts to question if the company is becoming overvalued. "Before recommending the stock after the run it's already had, I would argue that you probably want to see a couple of more quarters of evidence that it can regain market share back and grow from here," said Peller, the Barclays analyst. The stock is currently trading at $28.98, slightly above the median target price of $28.50 among the 15 analysts tracked by Thomson Reuters. That high price is leading some investors to wait for a pullback before buying back in. Among them: Bronchick, the Cove Street portfolio manager who recently sold his shares. "If this company was trading at $21 a share, I'd be pounding the table for it," he said. (Reporting by David Randall, editing by Linda Stern and Gunna Dickson) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Fahad ShadeedA nurse carries bags of blood donated by Saudi residents at the King Faisal Hospital in Riyadh.RIYADH/DUBAI (Reuters) - Stock market listings planned by two of Saudi Arabia's biggest private hospital operators point to a boom in its healthcare industry, as political pressures prompt the government to pour huge sums into the underdeveloped sector. Many areas of Saudi consumption, including the retail industry, housing and travel, have ballooned in the past decade because of oil-fuelled growth in national income. But healthcare has lagged, partly because of government inefficiency and bureaucracy. Now the mediocre quality of state-run healthcare has become a political liability for the government, especially in the wake of the 2011 uprisings elsewhere in the Arab world, which underlined the risks of social discontent. Many Saudis complain about overcrowded hospitals and shortages of medications. So the government has embarked on a drive to reform the sector, building hundreds of hospitals, providing interest-free loans to private companies and changing health insurance rules. This could make Saudi Arabia the world's fastest-growing major healthcare market over the next few years, helping to diversify the economy beyond oil and providing a bonanza to foreign companies selling medicines, equipment and services. "It is a case of chronic underinvestment and reactive overexpenditure," said Mohammad Kamal, an analyst at financial firm Arqaam Capital in Dubai. CATCHING UP The standard of Saudi Arabian healthcare provision has long contrasted with its wealth. The kingdom, which the IMF ranked 30th in the world by GDP per capita for 2012, has 2.2 hospital beds per 1,000 residents, according to Arqaam, lower than the global average of 3.0 and far below the average of 5.5 in developed countries. Local newspapers routinely report complaints about issues such as overcrowding - with some patients receiving intravenous drips in hospital corridors - and poor hygiene and maintenance, resulting in pest infestations and infections. Abdulkarim al-Thobeiti, a Saudi engineer working in the public sector, says he will never set foot in a state-run hospital because they are either fully booked or poorly maintained. "If you want to make an appointment to see a doctor you have to wait for months, unless you have some connection or know someone who can pull a few strings," Thobeiti said. This may change as the government ramps up healthcare budgets. Spending has already jumped from $8 billion in 2008 to $27 billion last year, and Saudi asset management firm NCB Capital expects it to soar to $46 billion in 2017. In addition to building new state-run facilities, the government is offering private companies interest-free loans covering up to a half of the cost of building new hospitals. And, although the move has yet to be announced officially, Saudis employed in the public sector are expected to become eligible for state-funded health insurance within the next few years, Arqaam and other analysts say. This would enable them to use private healthcare services without paying extra fees out of their own pocket. Today, the overwhelming majority, about 83 percent, of Saudi Arabia's 8.4 million health insurance holders are expatriates whose employers are legally obliged to cover their insurance costs, according to Arqaam. The insurance reform could swell the pool with more than a million Saudi public servants and about 5 million of their dependents, Arqaam estimates. This implies a surge in demand for private Saudi healthcare firms, which are turning to the stock market to finance expansion. Sulaiman Al-Habib Medical Group and Almana General Hospitals will seek to list their shares on the local bourse in 2014 or early 2015, bankers told Reuters in November. Some companies have already tapped the market. Dallah Healthcare raised 540 million rials ($144 million) in an initial public offering of shares at the end of 2012, while National Medical Care Co conducted a 175 million rial IPO last March. Major global players are also looking for ways to boost their presence. General Electric (GE), one of the biggest manufacturers of medical equipment, has said it will build an assembly facility in Saudi Arabia. "Looking ahead at 2014, we continue to see a buoyant healthcare sector for the kingdom," said Mazen Dalati, chief executive of GE Healthcare in the country. STRONG DEMAND The development of a private healthcare industry is good news for the Saudi government as it tries to diversify the economy and boost employment of citizens in the private sector to make the country less vulnerable to a big drop in oil prices. Higher state spending will not necessarily translate into quick improvements, however, as shown by the slow progress in the last few years of Saudi Arabia's $67 billion housing program, which was stalled by red tape and weak coordination between ministries. Analysts doubt in particular that the government will meet its own hospital construction targets. For private providers, human resources could become a bottleneck, especially if the government presses ahead with a plan to gradually replace foreign workers, who hold more than half the jobs in the sector, with Saudi nationals. Today, 20 percent of workers at healthcare companies are required to be Saudi citizens. The government is looking for ways to reduce the shortage of qualified personnel, including through partnerships with foreign firms such as GE. Reflecting such obstacles, healthcare firms' stock prices have lost steam since the post-IPO rallies commonly enjoyed by new Saudi listings. While the overall stock market has risen 16 percent since June, shares in Dallah are up just 11 percent, and National Medical Care has lost 8 percent. Future expansion of healthcare facilities, however, will be driven not just by increased government spending but also by fundamental factors such as the continuing growth of Saudi Arabia's young population and the high incidence of lifestyle-related diseases. One in every three people in the country is obese, according to the local Obesity Research Centre, whose researchers are looking into whether Saudis are genetically predisposed to the condition. "Saudi Arabia has an exceptionally high incidence of diabetes, heart disease and congenital disorders," said John Sfakianakis, chief investment strategist at Saudi investment firm MASIC. "The insurance sector changes will provide extra demand for sure." (Editing by Andrew Torchia and Will Waterman) FREE AppDownload
Henry Blodget / Business InsiderThe folks at Burda Media were kind enough to fly me over to Munich to give a presentation about digital storytelling at the DLD conference. And they flew me Business Class! That was cool, because I got to try a "fully flat bed" for the first time. I took some pictures, so you could get a sense of it, too. FREE AppDownload
