FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Baz RatnerThere's just been so much talk about bubbles lately. And Business Insider has been reporting on many of these bubbles. Apparently, there are bubbles in tech stocks, craft beers, Norwegian housing ... PIMCO's Bill Gross once even said, "All markets are bubbly." So, why stop there? The next terrifying chapter in the book of bubbles is on biotech stocks. These are the companies that spend much of their time in labs working on drugs and other medical products that rarely hit the market. "The fastest start to a year for US biotech initial public offerings is stoking fears of a bubble amid concerns investors are taking risks on companies at the earliest stage of medical research," reported the FT's Arash Massoudi and Andrew Ward. "Another eight biotech companies raised a combined $502m in US listings last week, setting a weekly record for the sector and continuing a boom that has seen the Nasdaq biotech index rise more than two-thirds in the past year." With everyone from Nuveen's Bob Doll to GMO's Ben Inker forecasting an era of low returns in the stock market, perhaps it's no surprise that there's a boom in capital heading to one of the most speculative corners of the world as investors search for returns. "Shares outstanding in the Biotech ETF, IBB, is near a all-time record," said Stifel Nicolaus' Dave Lutz, who first pointed us to the FT article. "The current price/earnings ratio for the Bloomberg biotech index comprising 118 companies stands at 174 times, with a price-to-book ratio of 6.75, compared with 2.59 for the S&amp;P 500." 174x earnings should completely explode the brain of those complaining that 17x is too high for the S&amp;P 500. Here's a one-year chart of the IBB (blue line), which is up 71% in the past year. That completely eclipses the S&amp;P 500 (red line), which is up an extraordinary 18% during the same period. Google Finance January was a big month for Intercept Pharmaceuticals (ICPT), a biotech company developing drugs to treat liver disease. This typical biotech stock rang in 2014 at $67.79 per share. On January 8, the stock closed at $72.39. And on January 9, it opened at $231.89. That's a 220% return overnight. Google FinanceWhile you were losing money in the S&P 500, Intercept speculators got rich.Here's an excerpt from the announcement the morning of January 9 that had everyone perked up: Intercept Pharmaceuticals, Inc. today announced that the FLINT trial of obeticholic acid (OCA) for the treatment of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) has been stopped early for efficacy based on a planned interim analysis showing that the primary endpoint of the trial has been met. FLINT is a multi-center, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial assessing the safety and efficacy of a 25 mg oral dose of OCA administered daily to biopsy-proven adult NASH patients over a 72-week treatment period. If that doesn't get your blood pumping, here's Bank of America Merrill Lynch analyst Rachel McMinn in a note to clients the following day. It has the right amount of English. We are raising our PO to $872 driven by our revised model which now includes a heavily positive probability adjusted potential for ICPT’s development stage drug OCA (obeticholic acid) for the treatment of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). Based on the staggering est prevalence of 6 million US advanced NASH patients (similar exUS), and trajectory for NASH leading to epidemic cirrhosis and liver transplant rates, this market has a potential to be as big or bigger than Hepatitis C. As a base case in our model, we are assigning a $4B peak sales estimate on OCA on what we view as extraordinary study results. While the stock quadrupled yesterday, we see additional significant upside as investors size the market opportunity for NASH... McMinn addresses three things every biotech investor is looking for. All biotech companies dream of hitting these milestones. But few do. However, the prospect of mindblowing returns arguably makes biotechs the sexiest sector in the market. The reason why valuation multiples are so high is because many of these companies have no earnings (as expected) as they bleed money in R&amp;D trying to discover the cure for cancer or the next Viagra. As such, these companies are notoriously difficult to value because overnight they can go from losing tens of millions of dollars to earning billions of dollars. YouTube/wealthtrackRich BernsteinWho's to say that all of the companies in the biotech sector won't nail their trials and get on the fast-track to becoming the next Lipitor? "I don't think it is a bubble," said Rich Bernstein in an email to Business Insider. "It's certainly very speculative, but speculation alone doesn't make a bubble." This is not to say that a turn in the markets could cause the air to come out of the biotech sector. Rather should the sector fall, it would be relatively isolated as these stocks aren't as widely held as the bulk of the S&amp;P 500. "Bubbles pervade society," said Bernstein. "They are bigger than the financial markets.  I don't think the biotech speculation is that broad, so no bubble in my opinion." "Whether it is wise to invest in speculative stocks is a totally different issue." Honestly, who knows? Bubbles have an unfortunate history of becoming obvious only after the fact. FREE AppDownload
Spain grew 0.3% in Q4 2013, but unemployment ticked higher to 26.03%, from 25.98% the previous quarter. Soaring unemployment and a housing bust have caused a surge in evictions as borrowers are unable to pay their mortgages. We've previously talked about the ongoing eviction crisis in Spain. In southern Madrid gangs reportedly scout around for abandoned real estate and then pose as fake landlords. But with the help of anti-eviction activists, some have started moving into abandoned buildings. Reuters reports that nine families that had been evicted, occupied a building in Alovera, north of Madrid, that had been abandoned since 2008. Anti-eviction activists went public with the occupation of the building last year. Susana Vera at Reuters visited the abandoned building to see what life is like. Mohssin El Molahed welds a door shut in the courtyard of an occupied building. REUTERS/Susana Vera Noelia Cabrera and her daughter live in the building now. Cabrera, a single mother, lost her job at a courier company in 2011. REUTERS/Susana Vera Abdell Bouchmal who now lives in the building became wheelchair-bound after a car accident on his way home from work three years ago. He receives 600 a month from the state. REUTERS/Susana Vera Yasmina Idider lives in the building with her husband and three children. Her family moved in right before they were about to be evicted. Idider's husband, Mohssin El Molahed, suffered a work-related accident in 2009 that left him with a disability, but he doesn't receive any state aid. REUTERS/ Susana Vera Anti-eviction activists hang out by the abandoned pool. REUTERS/Susana Vera Anti-eviction activists play soccer in a the paddle court after going public with the occupation of an empty building in Alovera. REUTERS/Susana Vera FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mansi ThapliyalVendors arrange vegetables at their stalls at a wholesale market in Mumbai December 18, 2013.Vendors arrange vegetables at their stalls at a wholesale market in Mumbai December 18, 2013.We’ve heard the same sad story time and again from all corners of the globe: People are migrating from rural areas to cities in search of jobs, leaving behind a depleted, underprivileged countryside. But that paradigm may be starting to change. Signs of a “recovering rural consumer” surfaced in the Credit Suisse Research Institute’s 2013 Emerging Consumer Survey, the fourth edition of which was published Feb. 10. A rural middle class has begun developing in some of the world’s largest emerging market economies, fueling consumer appetites on the fringes of an increasingly urbanized planet. The phenomenon appears particularly prominent in the world’s two most populous nations. Rural consumers in China and India now have significantly higher expectations for wage increases than urban consumers. The same is true in other emerging markets economies such as South Africa, Russia and Mexico. With more money in their pockets, people in rural areas plan to consume more, too. Consumers surveyed were asked whether they expected to spend more money on so-called “essential” goods (such as dairy products and bottled water), “useful” products (computers and educational courses) and “discretionary” items (sportswear, smartphones and vacations) over the next year. Among Indian consumers, a higher proportion of rural buyers foresaw spending increases than urban ones in 10 of 14 categories. In China, rural intentions topped urban ones in seven of 14. India’s rural populations, in particular, have benefitted from recent infrastructure investments and rising wages. The percentage of rural households with electricity, for example, rose to 67 percent in 2011 from 55 percent in 2001, according to Credit Suisse. And real wages for rural jobs rose more than 7 percent between 2008 and 2013, after increasing less than 1 percent between 2005 and 2008. This rural progress is even more notable since income growth in urban professions such as technology software and services has started to slow. In China, a sweeping reform package announced late last year has boosted optimism about the country’s willingness to open up its economy and financial system. For rural consumers, the key reform is a plan to give farmers more leeway to sell, rent or mortgage their land, which moves the country away from a system of collective ownership. That means farmers will profit from appreciating land values, giving them more cash to spend on discretionary items. Chinese consumers were optimistic even before the reform package was announced, according to the Credit Suisse survey. The country ranked second in terms of consumer expectations about financial market performance over the next six months, and third in expectations of future wage increases. There was also an increase in optimism among the youth, with 12 percent of 18- to 29-year-olds saying it was an “excellent” time to spend, compared with between 5 and 8 percent in previous years. Rural Indonesians, too, have become more hopeful than their urban counterparts, given recent increases in the minimum wage. Last November, a dozen governors across the country hiked base pay an average of 19 percent after striking workers took to the streets to demand increases. Urban residents, on the other hand, are expressing more doubts, faced with slowing economic growth, elevated inflation, and higher interest rates. “Not surprisingly, those in rural areas are more optimistic than those in urban communities,” the Research Institute report said. Such rural optimism is still a nascent development, and it isn’t happening everywhere. In Brazil, for example, consumer demand remains largely driven by city dwellers, and any growth in rural consumption growth faces an uphill battle given the country’s slowing economy, higher inflation and declining real income growth. Indeed, Brazilians were the third most likely to say “no” when asked whether it was a good time to make a major purchase, according to the Credit Suisse survey. Also, the year-on-year decline in the degree of optimism was most pronounced in the lowest two income brackets surveyed, likely due, at least in part,  to the country’s 5.5 percent food inflation rate in 2013, the highest of all the economies surveyed. In Mexico, things look even worse for rural residents relative to their city-dwelling countrymen. Urban expectations for increased spending there surpassed rural expectations in every category of the survey. Still, rural consumers’ growing prosperity and optimism suggests opportunity for companies inclined to invest the time and money required to attract them. “While rural-urban migration and a rising middle class have been long-standing themes,” the Credit Suisse report says, “an emerging rural middle class is one for both investors and companies to consider.” FREE AppDownload
CNBC's anchor Carl Quintanilla is in Sochi covering the Olympic Games. Of course, he's also covering the vodka market. During one of his segments, he slammed back four vodka shots in 13 seconds and managed not to puke. Impressive.  Check it out: (Start at the 50 second mark)    FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Why Investors Should Be Careful Before Buying Into Bond-Mageddon Mania (Vanguard)  As interest rates rose in 2013, investors began to pull their money out of taxable bond funds. Investors in taxable bonds redeemed $121 billion in 2013, leading many to characterize the sell-off as a bond-mageddon. But Fran Kinniry at Vanguard writes that investors should be careful about reacting to short-term movements.   "What is largely ignored when discussing investor cash flow is the level of base assets, or the starting period of the assets under management." The $1.8 trillion in assets in taxable bond funds at the beginning of 2013 was 6.5 times higher than the $286 billion in these funds at the start of 1994.  "Given such a large asset base, there will likely be proportionally more cash flow into and out of these funds," Kinniry writes. "When we compare cash flows to the base assets, an entirely different picture develops. As a percentage of base assets (green bars), the –6% cash flows from taxable bond funds in 2013 fell far short of the –16% cash flows in 1994." MyRA Isn't The Best Option For Young Investors (Morningstar) During his State of the Union address, president Obama announced a new retirement savings program called MyRA. This is a program of small Roth IRAs for those who do not have access to company retirement savings plans. And people can contribute at very low levels. But Christine Benz, director of personal finance at Morningstar, says it isn't the best option for young investors.  "I think that's a big criticism here, actually. If you want to get people out there investing and maybe they're young savers, what you want to try to do is take advantage of the fact that they've got a really long time horizon. Those are your best candidates for stocks. So, it's sort of unfortunate that they will be stuck with government bonds--a fairly low-returning, low-risk asset class--when smaller, younger savers are really the best positioned people to take some risk." The Best Performing Advisory Firms Are Good Pitchers (Investment News)  77% of the highest-performing advisors firms bring clients on board in two meetings or less, according to the new Fidelity RIA Benchmarking study cited by Liz Skinner in Investment News. About 25% of them manage to win over a client in the first meeting itself. The highest performing firms are those that are in the top 25% in terms of growth, profitability, and productivity. "The best performers have an efficient sales process,” said David Canter, executive vice president and head of practice management for Fidelity Institutional Wealth Services. “They have a good process for delivering their presentation and they are very consistent and clear about the firm's story and value proposition." The Rise Of Foreign Assets In US Portfolios Since 1945 (UBS) "American investors have been the largest dollar diversifiers over the last decade," said UBS's Syed Mansoor Mohi-uddin in a new research note. "That has cut US home bias to historically low levels." In the early 1980s and 90s U.S. bond fund managers cut their exposure to foreign assets in the face of higher interest rates at home and a crisis in the emerging markets.  "The 2008 financial crisis and the start of the Eurozone debt crisis from 2010 has also led episodes of US investors pulling back from foreign markets over the last few years. But with the Fed setting interest rates almost at zero since the end of 2008, domestic fund managers have still largely kept the proportion of foreign assets in their portfolios at high historic levels over the last years as Figure 4 shows." UBS Laszlo Birinyi Sees A Big Stock Market Rally By The Halfway Point Of This Year (Bloomberg) Stock market veteran Laszlo Birinyi told Bloomberg's Nick Taborek and Callie Bost that the S&amp;P 500 will climb to 1,900 next quarter. Birinyi was one of the first analysts to advise clients to buy stocks when they began to bottom after the financial crisis. He told Bloomberg that the benchmark gauge for U.S. equities will rise almost 6% by July. "I don’t like when the market just shrugs these things off. …It’s OK to just stop and take a deep breath. The market should have some sort of a negative reaction when you have problems in Turkey and Argentina. That didn’t make me uncomfortable," Birinyi said. "We’ve had a little bit of a detour and the road isn’t as smooth as it has been, but we still think the rally is intact.” FREE AppDownload
In investing, when everyone's going one way, it pays to go the other way. That's essentially what Jeffrey Gundlach recommended during his January 14 webcast when we presented his 2014 forecasts. Among other things, he said that gold and gold miners would be where money would be made in 2014. At the time, the median forecaster saw the yellow metal falling to $1,220/oz this year. Gundlach said he saw gold rallying to $1,350/oz. It hasn't even been a month. And the gold miners have been on a tear. The gold miners ETF (GDX) is up a whopping 9%. During this same period, the S&amp;P 500 is down 1%. Check out this chart from Google Finance: Google Finance GDX could be doing so well right now because it did so poorly over the past year. Indeed, GDX is still down 41% from a year ago, while the S&amp;P 500 is up 18%. Google Finance What else does Gundlach like? During the webcast, he said the value proposition of emerging market bonds was "more attractive than people say." He also favored longer-term Treasuries as reflected by his expectation for the 10-year yield was to fall. This has already been playing out. FREE AppDownload
Whether it's whiskey, vodka, or soju, people around the world love their liquor. And some countries love liquor more than others. Global marketing research firm Euromonitor International shared their analysis of the market for hard liquor in 53 countries around the world. This map shows the amount of liquor sold in each country during 2013 per capita, per week: Business Insider, data from Euromonitor South Korea handily dominates the list of countries, drinking more than twice as much liquor per capita as any other country. Three predominantly Muslim countries — Egypt, Indonesia, and Saudi Arabia — reported zero liquor sales in 2013. We converted the Euromonitor data from mL to shots, using a standard U.S. 1.5 oz (44 mL) shot glass. Americans drink about 2.5 shots per week, putting us just out of the top ten countries. Here are the ten countries in Euromonitor's database who consume the most liquor: FREE AppDownload
But there's something about money that gets the better of us. If you look at the rate of personal bankruptcies, financial crises, bubbles, student loans, debt defaults, and savings rates, I wonder whether people are just as bad at managing money today as they were in previous generations, maybe even worse. It's one of the only areas in life we seem to get progressively dumber at. Here are 77 reasons why people are awful at managing money. 1. You let your political views guide your investments without realizing that the market doesn't care who you voted for or which cable news outlet you find more honest. 2. Your definition of "long term" is the time between now and the next bear market, whenever that is. 3. You suffer from the Dunnnig-Krueger effect, lacking enough basic financial knowledge to even realize that you're making mistakes. People's lack of understanding about things like compound interest and inflation can lead them to believe they're making good financial decisions when in reality they're tripping over themselves with failure. 4. For every $1 raise you receive, your desires rise by $2 or more. 5. You spend lots of money on material stuff to impress other people without realizing those other people couldn't care less about you. You'd be shocked at how few people care where your purse was made or how much noise your car makes. 6. You are unshakably certain about things you know very little about, particularly regarding monetary policy. 7. You have never been able to predict what the market will do next. This doesn't deter you from trying to predict what the market will do next. 8. You don't learn vicariously from other people's financial problems. By the time you get the hang of making smart money decisions, your life expectancy rounds to zero. 9. You think you're young, invincible, and don't need health insurance. Then icy sidewalks, moving cars, and rapidly dividing cells prove you wrong. 10. You get upset when you hear on TV that the government is running a deficit. It doesn't bother you that you heard this on a TV you bought on a credit card in a home you purchased with a no-money-down mortgage. 11. You take out $200,000 in debt to earn a degree in a subject you're not interested in, doesn't offer marketable job skills, and for which you have no intention of working in -- all by age 22.  12. You're part of the roughly half of Americans who can't come up with $2,000 in 30 days for an emergency, even though you're also part of the roughly 100% of Americans who will need to come up with $2,000 in 30 days for an emergency at some point in your life. 13. The single largest expense you'll pay in life is interest. You'll spend more money on interest than food, vacations, cars, school, clothes, dinners out, and all forms of entertainment. You do this because you don't save enough and demand a lifestyle you can't actually afford. The future owns your income. 14. You're thrilled that the credit card you're paying 22% interest on offers 1% cash back on all purchases. 15. You spent the last five years arguing why Keynesian/Austrian economists were all wrong. The S&amp;P 500 (INDEX: ^GSPC) spent the last five years rallying 177%. 16. You think dollar-cost averaging is boring without realizing that the purpose of investing isn't to minimize boredom; it's to maximize returns. 17. You work in a stressful job in order to make enough money to have a stress-free life. You see no irony in this. 18. You're a pessimist in a world where far more people wake up in the morning trying to make things better than wake up thinking we're all doomed. 19. You try to keep up with the Jonses without realizing the Jonses are buried in debt and can probably never retire. 20. You think $1 million is a glamorously large amount money when it's what most people will need to cover their definition of a pretty mediocre retirement. 21. You associate all of your financial successes with skill and all of your financial failures with bad luck. 22. Rather than admitting and learning from your mistakes, you ignore them, bury them, make excuses for them, and blame them on others. 23. You anchor to whatever price you bought a stock for, without realizing that the market neither knows nor cares what you think is a "fair" price. 24. Your perception of history extends back about five years. This leads you to believe things like bonds are safe, the average recession is as bad as 2008 was, and we're in a new normal of high unemployment. 25. You come from a low- or middle- income household, don't qualify for scholarships, and think it's reasonable to attend a private college. 26. You aced your SATs and went to an Ivy League school. You think this qualifies you to be a financial genius without realizing that the single most important skill in finance is control over your emotions, not control over a Greek formula. 27. You say you'll be greedy when others are fearful, then seek the fetal position when the market falls 2%. 28. You worship "legendary" investors whose only real skill is marketing themselves. Their career track record probably lags a money market fund. 29. You think you can be a successful day trader when the hedge fund you're competing with can read a news report, figure out what it means, and place a trade, make a profit, and exit that trade in literally the time it takes you to click on said news report. 30. You let confirmation bias take control of your mind by only seeking out information from sources that agree with your pre-existing beliefs. 31. You think you're too young to start saving for retirement when every day that passes makes compound interest a little bit less effective. 32. You spend a month researching the best washing machine, then invest twice as much money in a penny stock based solely on a tip from a person you don't know and shouldn't trust. 33. You're investing for the next 50 years but get stressed when the market has a bad day. 34. You're willing to work hard for $15 an hour, but too lazy to spend four minutes to fill out your company's 401(k) paperwork that could result in thousands of dollars of free money from matching contributions. 35. You think you're doing great by building up an emergency fund that covers three months of living expenses when the average duration of unemployment these days is more like nine months. 36. You check your brokerage account more often when the market is going up than going down. 37. You size up the potential of investments based on past returns, rather than investments that (A) you understand, (B) have a competitive advantage, (C) fit your goals, and (D) sell for an attractive valuation. 38. You take something as mind-numbingly complex as the global economy and try to distill it down into small, elegant sound bites. 39. You don't respect the idea that "do nothing" are two of the most powerful words in investing. 40. You purchased investments from a guy wearing boat shoes with no socks, a blue shirt with a white collar, or suspenders This rarely ends well. 41. You feel especially smart after last year's 30% market rally without realizing that you had nothing to do with it. 42. You surround yourself with 18 hours a day of live market TV in a game that requires decades of doing almost nothing but waiting. 43. You hire a doctor to manage your health, an accountant to do your taxes, a lawyer to manage your legal problems, a plumber to fix your plumbing, a contractor to build your house, a trainer to help you exercise, a dentist to fix your teeth, and a pilot to fly when you travel. You wouldn't consider doing it differently. Then, with no experience, you go about investing willy nilly, all by yourself. 44. Hindsight bias fools you into thinking you saw the last financial crisis coming. Worse, this fools you again into thinking you'll be able to predict the next one. 45. You think financial news is published because it has useful information you need to know. In reality, it's published only because the publisher knows you'll read it. 46. You forget that the single most valuable asset you have as an investor is time. A 20-year-old has an asset Warren Buffett couldn't dream about. 47. You don't realize that the guy giving advice on TV doesn't know you, your circumstances, your goals, or your risk tolerance. He doesn't really care about you, either. He just wants to be seen on TV. 48. You have a financial plan without realizing that life neither knows nor cares about your plan. Whatever your plan is today, reality will surely look far different tomorrow. 49. You start saving a little bit of money. Great! It's better than nothing, but I see a lot of people who are proud of their savings when in reality it's an infinitesimally small percentage of what they'll need to retire. As the saying goes, "Save a little bit of money each month, and at the end of the year, you'll be surprised at how little you still have." If you think saving 30% or more of your income is insane, run the numbers. It might be close to what you'll need to retire happy. 50. You think it's impossible to live on less than $35,000 a year without realizing that literally 99% of the world does, even adjusted for purchasing power parity. 51. Your definition of a middle-class lifestyle is a 3,000-square foot home, more bathrooms than family members, three SUVs, private colleges, annual trips to Hawaii and Vail, Evian water, and yoga lessons. (Seriously, just stretch in your own living room.) 52. You can't acknowledge the role luck plays when making the occasional successful investment. (Also true when worshiping investors who made one big call that happened to be right.) 53. You suffer from hard-core belief bias. It's the tendency to accept or reject an argument based on how well it fits your pre-defined beliefs, rather than the objective facts of the situation. Pointing out that inflation has been low for the last five years is still met with suspicion by those who believe the Federal Reserve's actions must be causing hyperinflation. 54. You think the hybrid car is a better financial deal because it gets better gas millage, even though it costs $10,000 more than a comparable gas-engine model. You'll probably need to drive for a decade before the hybrid upgrade pays for itself, but in reality you'll trade the thing well before then. 55. You hate finance, think it's confusing, and don't want anything to do with it. You do, however, love money. You see no irony in this. 56. You think the stock market is too risky because it's volatile, without realizing that the biggest risk you face isn't volatility; It's not growing you assets by enough over the next several decades. 57. You've never been to a poor country, robbing you of the realization that the world doesn't care how entitled you feel, what you think is "fair," or what a real financial hardship is. 58. You think blowing money on frivolous stuff impresses people, when in reality it makes you look like an insecure, pompous, jerk. (This is particularly common among young people who come into money for the first time.) 59. You're unable to realize that a 10% return for 20 years generates more money than a 20% return for 10 years. Time can be a more important factor than return when building wealth -- and it's the one thing you have control over. 60. You don't respect the mountains of evidence showing that once basic needs are met, the amount of happiness each additional dollar of income provides diminishes quickly. This causes you to spend most of your life chasing "the number" you think will make you happy, but probably won't. 61. You think paying your financial advisor and other money managers 2% a year seems reasonable, without realizing that it'll probably eat up one-third or more of your long-term returns. 62. You think of the stock market as numbers that go up and down rather than an ownership stake in real businesses with real assets. 63. You think renting a home is throwing money away when for many it's one of the smartest financial decisions they can make. 64. Your investment decisions are guided by what the economy is doing, when the two really have very little correlation. 65. When planning for retirement, you don't realize that your life expectancy might be 90 years or more. Retire at 65, and you could spend more than one-third of your life living off your investments. 66. You're unable to have a good time going for a hike, a bike ride, a swim, reading a book, or anything else that's free (or cheap). Having cheap hobbies is a large, yet hidden, asset on your personal balance sheet. 67. You work so hard trying to make money that you don't have time to think about, or plan, your finances. This is the equivalent to spending so much time buying exercise equipment that you have no time to exercise. 68. To paraphrase Carl Richards, you ignore history, basing your actions on your own very limited experience. 69. You worry about things you can't control, and things that are not relevant to your own finances. 70. You went to college at age 18 not because you were ready but because everyone else was. It's probably one of the most expense things you'll ever do, and you totally caved to peer pressure. 71. You think that not changing your opinion about markets, the economy, and your investments is somehow noble, when it's really just shutting your brain off to the reality that things are always changing. 72. You ignore that how elderly Americans who have seen it all view money is almost the opposite of how most young Americans view money. This goes back to not learning vicariously. 73. You're uncomfortable with the idea that the biggest news story of the next decade is almost certainly something no one is talking about today, and the big stuff everyone is talking about today is probably meaningless. 74. You underestimate how fast a company can go from "blue chip" to bankrupt. 75. You don't realize that when you say you want to be a millionaire, what you probably mean is that you want to spend a million dollars, which is literally the opposite of being a millionaire. 76. You're unaware that the business models of the vast majority of financial companies rely on exploiting the fears, emotions, and lack of intelligence of its customers. 77. You nodded along to all 77 of these points without realizing I'm talking about you. That goes for me, too. Check back every Tuesday and Thursday for Morgan Housel's columns on finance and economics.  FREE AppDownload
APThe Obama administration announced Monday that it will delay implementation of part of the Affordable Care Act's employer mandate for the second consecutive year. The Treasury Department said it will delay the mandate's penalty another year for small businesses with 50-99 workers. It will also adjust some of the requirements for larger employers.  Under the new Treasury Department rules, businesses with 100 employees or more must offer coverage to at least 70% of full-time workers in 2015 and 95% in 2016, or face a penalty.  Though the administration emphasized that the change won't affect a large number of people, the Treasury Department hinted that it was meant to assuage small businesses' concerns about the law's implementation. "While about 96% of employers are not subject to the employer responsibility provision, for those employers that are, we will continue to make the compliance process simpler and easier to navigate," Assistant Secretary for Tax Policy Mark J. Mazur said in a statement.   "Today’s final regulations phase in the standards to ensure that larger employers either offer quality, affordable coverage or make an employer responsibility payment starting in 2015 to help offset the cost to taxpayers of coverage or subsidies to their employees." House Majority Leader Eric Cantor (R-Va.) joked immediately on Twitter that after the latest delay of part of the law, Obamacare should have a new, Olympic-themed logo: Twitter/@EricCantor House Speaker John Boehner slammed President Barack Obama for what he said was a corporate break. "Once again, the president is giving a break to corporations while individuals and families are still stuck under the mandates of his health care law," Boehner said. "And, once again, the president is rewriting law on a whim. If the administration doesn’t believe employers can manage the burden of the law, how can struggling families be expected to? This continued manipulation by the president breeds confusion and erodes Americans’ confidence in him and his health care law.  We need fairness for all, with relief from Obamacare for every American." The employer mandate was set to take effect this year. But last July, the Obama administration delayed by a year the requirement that businesses provide workers health insurance. The purpose of the employer mandate is to discourage employers from dropping coverage and leaving employees to buy subsidized insurance in the Obamacare exchanges at greater taxpayer expense.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Andrew KellyStylist Faustina Rose waits for the commencement of the Katya Zol 2014 Fall/Winter collection presentation during New York Fashion Week in New York February 9, 2014.There were no notable economic reports or earnings announcements released today. There wasn't a whole lot of action in the markets either. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
Note from dshort: This commentary has been revised to include the January Nonfarm Employment data. Official recession calls are the responsibility of the NBER Business Cycle Dating Committee, which is understandably vague about the specific indicators on which they base their decisions. This committee statement is about as close as they get to identifying their method. There is, however, a general belief that there are four big indicators that the committee weighs heavily in their cycle identification process. They are:  The January monthly Nonfarm Employment increased by 113K, substantially below the general expectation of 185K or more new jobs. For additional discussion of the employment situation, see my latest update here. For a rosier alternative to the latest jobs number, which comes from the BLS's monthly Employment Survey, the Household Survey (a joint effort of the BLS and the Census Bureau) reported a 638K increase in civilian employment age 16 and over, a number that gets trimmed to 616K after the BLS applies its "annual adjustment to the population controls." For an overview of these "odd couple" surveys over the past fifty years, see my commentary here. Growth in Nonfarm Employment has been in frustratingly slow during the economic recovery, but the month-over-month change has been positive since August 2010. Slow growth is always preferable to contraction. The chart and table below illustrate the performance of the Big Four and simple average of the four since the end of the Great Recession. The data points show the percent cumulative percent change from a zero starting point for June 2009. The latest data point is for the 55th month. In addition to the four indicators, I've included an average of the four, which, as we can see, was influenced by the anomaly in the Personal Income tax management strategy at the end of last year with a ripple effect in the opening months of this year. The overall picture of the US economy remains one of a ploddingly slow recovery from the Great Recession. As we can see in the illustration of the average of the Big Four off its all-time high since 2007, the rate of post-trough growth has been slower since February of 2012, although the 2012 end-of-year tax-strategy has obscured overall trend slope over the past two years. On a more hopeful note, the slope from last July through November showed encouraging improvement, although since December the numbers have been collectively flat.   My next update will cover the all-important February Nonfarm Payrolls report for January. The charts above don't show us the individual behavior of the Big Four leading up to the 2007 recession. To achieve that goal, I've plotted the same data using a "percent off high" technique. In other words, I show successive new highs as zero and the cumulative percent declines of months that aren't new highs. The advantage of this approach is that it helps us visualize declines more clearly and to compare the depth of declines for each indicator and across time (e.g., the short 2001 recession versus the Great Recession). Here is my own four-pack showing the indicators with this technique. Now let's examine the behavior of these indicators across time. The first chart below graphs the period from 2000 to the present, thereby showing us the behavior of the four indicators before and after the two most recent recessions. Rather than having four separate charts, I've created an overlay to help us evaluate the relative behavior of the indicators at the cycle peaks and troughs. (See my note below on recession boundaries).     The chart above is an excellent starting point for evaluating the relevance of the four indicators in the context of two very different recessions. In both cases, the bounce in Industrial Production matches the NBER trough while Employment and Personal Incomes lagged in their respective reversals. As for the start of these two 21st century recessions, the indicator declines are less uniform in their behavior. We can see, however, that Employment and Personal Income were laggards in the declines. Now let's look at the 1972-1985 period, which included three recessions -- the savage 16-month Oil Embargo recession of 1973-1975 and the double dip of 1980 and 1981-1982 (6-months and 16-months, respectively).     And finally, for sharp-eyed readers who can don't mind squinting at a lot of data, here's a cluttered chart from 1959 to the present. That is the earliest date for which all four indicators are available. The main lesson of this chart is the diverse patterns and volatility across time for these indicators. For example, retail sales and industrial production are far more volatile than employment and income.     History tells us the brief periods of contraction are not uncommon, as we can see in this big picture since 1959, the same chart as the one above, but showing the average of the four rather than the individual indicators.     The chart clearly illustrates the savagery of the last recession. It was much deeper than the closest contender in this timeframe, the 1973-1975 Oil Embargo recession. While we've yet to set new highs, the trend has collectively been upward, although we have that strange anomaly caused by the late 2012 tax-planning strategy that impacted the Personal Income. Here is a close-up of the average since 2000.         Each of the four major indicators discussed in this article are illustrated below in three different data manipulations: The US Industrial Production Index (INDPRO) is the oldest of the four indicators, stretching back to 1919. The log scale of the first chart is particularly useful in showing the correlation between this indicator and early 20th century recessions.             This data series is computed as by taking Personal Income (PI) less Personal Current Transfer Receipts (PCTR) and deflated using the Personal Consumption Expenditure Price Index (PCEPI). I've chained the data to the latest price index value. The "Tax Planning Strategies" annotation refers to shifting income into the current year to avoid a real or expected tax increase.             For a visual sense of the relative size of Personal Income and Transfer Receipts (Social Security, etc.), here is stacked area chart of nominal values. Many people assume that Transfer Receipts (Payments) are a larger source of income than they really are. There are many ways to plot employment. The one referenced by the Federal Reserve researchers as one of the NBER indicators is Total Nonfarm Employees (PAYEMS).             This indicator is a splicing of the discontinued retail sales series (RETAIL, discontinued in April 2001) spliced with the Retail and Food Services Sales (RSAFS) and deflated by the Consumer Price Index (CPIAUCSL). I used a splice point of January 1995 because that was date mentioned in the FRED notes. My experiments with other splice techniques (e.g., 1992, 2001 or using an average of the overlapping years) didn't make a meaningful difference in the behavior of the indicator in proximity to recessions. I've chained the data to the latest CPI value.             This indicator is a splice of two seasonally adjusted series tracked by the BEA. The 1967-1996 component is SIC (Standard Industrial Classification) based and the 1997-present is NAICS (North American Industry Classification System) based. The data are available from the BEA website. See Section 0 - Real Inventories and Sales and look for Tables 2AU and 2BU. The FRED economists use the Real Retail Sales above for their four-pack. However, ECRI appears to use this series as their key indicator for sales. Note that the Manufacturing and Trade Sales data is updated monthly with the BEA's Personal Consumption and Expenditures release, but the numbers lag by one month from the other PCE data.              Note: I represent recessions as the peak month through the month preceding the trough to highlight the recessions in the charts above. For example, the NBER dates the last cycle peak as December 2007, the trough as June 2009 and the duration as 18 months. The "Peak through the Period preceding the Trough" series is the one FRED uses in its monthly charts, as explained in the FRED FAQs illustrated in this Industrial Production chart. This article originally appeared at Advisor Perspectives.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
The Wolf of Phi Psi/VimeoWe post a lot of rush videos on here—some good, many bad—but this actually qualifies as a must-see. The Phi Psi fraternity just won Johns Hopkins’ rush by creating a frame-for-frame recreation of the Wolf of Wall Street‘s trailer, with keg stands replacing midget tossing and the IFC taking the place of the feds. They even got a guy who pulled off a credible impression of McConaughey’s now-legendary stock market diatribe. Just watch it. Super creative stuff:   FREE AppDownload
Business television has been a state of flux recently, with CNBC's top host Maria Bartiromo absconding for Fox Business and a spate of losses for Bloomberg TV. It's a reminder that "talent" at the major business networks — CNBC, Fox Business, and Bloomberg — tends to shift around a lot. So we decided to take a walk down memory lane. Here are some then and now shots of some of the more recognizable financial journalists around. And no lame 80s haircut was spared.  YouTube/racefanvideo screenshot via MissNH.com Wikimedia Commons YouTube Screenshot YouTube/ cnbc911Santelli is still as loud as ever on CNBC. Here he is dueling with the Wall Street Journal's Jon Hilsenrath. W&L athletics YouTube/ABC7 World News FREE AppDownload
Twitter Bill Gates is hosting an AMA on Reddit right now. Redditors have asked questions about everything from his new role at Microsoft to what his most expensive guilty pleasure purchase was (for the record: his private plane). One user asked him what his thoughts were about cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin. Here's how Gates replied: The foundation is involved in digital money but unlike Bitcoin it would not be anonymous digital money. In Kenya M-pesa is being used for almost half of all transactions. Digital money has low transaction costs which is great for the poor because they need to do financial transactions with small amounts of money. Over the next 5 years I think digital money will catch on in India and parts of Africa and help the poorest a lot. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jonathan Ernst Staff members walk past the US Capitol dome ahead of President Barack Obama's first address to a joint session of congress, in Washington, February 24, 2009. House Republicans will hold a special meeting Monday night to determine their path forward on the debt ceiling, and it'll be crucial for a deal before the Feb. 27 deadline. Though House Republicans aren't putting up a fight with President Barack Obama and Democrats this time around, there's a simple reason this meeting will be key — time. As in, there's not a lot of time left before that deadline. The House are only in session for three days this week, before House Democrats go on their annual strategy retreat. The next full day that Congress is scheduled to be in session is Feb. 26 — one day before the "drop-dead date," after which Treasury Secretary Jack Lew has said the Treasury will have trouble meeting all of its obligations. The irony in this debt ceiling fight is that, unlike almost every other fiscal battle since 2011, House Republicans are actively campaigning against a fight with Obama and Democrats. Even the most raucous members of the caucus are urging leadership to avoid "theater." But the lack of a coherent strategy to this point leaves no room for the trial-and-error approach that has accompanied the last few debt-ceiling fights. "We agree with the conventional wisdom that congressional Republicans are looking for a way to fold, but that path forward remains hazy and it is still possible for them to drown in the glass of water they have poured — and cause economic havoc by failing to raise the debt ceiling in time," Chris Krueger, a D.C.-based analyst for Guggenheim Partners LLC, wrote Monday. Monday night's meeting will likely determine whether the House could possibly bring a bill to the floor this week, as well as if leadership can earn enough support for a bill with its preferred policy riders attached. (Two that have been discussed are the possibility of attaching a "doc fix" on Medicare doctor reimbursement rates and re-instituting some military benefit cuts from last year's budget deal.)  But if it can't rally enough Republicans behind that plan, it's likely that leadership will have to resort to passing a "clean" debt-ceiling bill without policy strings. Democrats, for their part, know that Republicans are stuck in a corner they created. "Republican leaders shouldn’t need another meeting to figure out that debt limit brinkmanship doesn’t work, because they are even hearing from their own Tea Party members that they should give up and walk back the ransom demands," said Patty Murray (D-Wash.), the chair of the Senate Budget Committee. "And when even the Tea Party is admitting defeat, it is time for Speaker Boehner to end the drama and uncertainty." FREE AppDownload
When the Singapore Airshow opens tomorrow, the attention of the aviation industry will turn to Asia, the fastest-growing market on the planet. Between 2013 and 2032, the Asia Pacific region, including China and India, will demand nearly 13,000 new aircraft worth $1.9 trillion, according to Boeing's Current Market Outlook. 36% of the world's new planes will go to the region. At the Dubai Airshow, held in November, airlines ordered $206 billion worth of new planes — an air show record. But while Asia is the bigger market, don't expect to see numbers matching those set in Dubai.  Vietnamese, Indian, and Thai airlines are expected to finalize orders for about 100 Airbus and Boeing jets worth $12 billion, according to Reuters. Part of the reason those figures are so far below what we saw in Dubai is that Southeast Asia, home to many of the airlines expected to place orders in Singapore, is all about low-cost carriers (LCCs). Those airlines serve a growing demand for short flights within the region. So they don't buy expensive super jumbo jets; they opt for cheaper single-aisle planes. According to the Centre for Aviation (CAPA), there are more than 25 LCCs operating in Southeast Asia. In 2003, they made up for 3.3% of the region's capacity. Now they cover 57.4%. More than half the planes in service in the region are single-aisle jets, while 24% are twin-aisles. That trend isn't going to change anytime soon. This chart, from Boeing's Outlook, shows that airlines in the area have a huge backlog of planes on order — 50% bigger than the region's current fleet — and most of those will be single aisle aircraft like the Boeing 737 and Airbus A320: The Boeing Company This market is part of the reason Boeing is building 737s faster than ever, and looking into pushing its production rate even higher. Don't rule out orders for some big jets, however. Airbus expects that in the next two decades, 36% of planes ordered by Asian carriers will be twin-aisles, as "more than 50% of the new long-haul routes created between 2013 and 2032 will be connected to Asia-Pacific." FREE AppDownload
UBS"American investors have been the largest dollar diversifiers over the last decade," said UBS's Syed Mansoor Mohi-uddin in a new research note. "That has cut US home bias to historically low levels," he continued. However, he also observed that investor capital going into foreign markets have leveled out since the financial crisis. More recently, decelerating growth in the emerging markets led by slowing growth in China seems to have investors spooked about investing in these once high-growth regions. Massive capital outflows from these markets are causing various emerging-market currencies to see their values tumble. And the prospect of normalizing U.S. monetary policy, which means a stronger dollar and higher interest rates, only seems to be making things worse. Emerging market crises and capital outflows are not a new phenomenon. Mohi-uddin reviews past instances where crises collided with capital flowing back to the U.S. From the note: In the early 1980s and late 1990s, US bond fund managers sharply cut the proportion of foreign assets in their portfolios as higher US interest rates at home and crises in emerging markets reduced the attractiveness of investments abroad. The 2008 financial crisis and the start of the Eurozone debt crisis from 2010 has also led episodes of US investors pulling back from foreign markets over the last few years. But with the Fed setting interest rates almost at zero since the end of 2008, domestic fund managers have still largely kept the proportion of foreign assets in their portfolios at high historic levels over the last years as Figure 4 shows... "This year's weakness in emerging market and commodity currencies suggests US investors may be starting to shift capital back home in anticipation of tighter monetary policy," he said. Unfortunately, the Federal Reserve's data on these flows come once per quarter and on a two-month lag. So we won't know what happened until well after the fact. Mohi-uddin doesn't expect inflows back to dollar-denominated assets to lead to major home bias in investor portfolios. However, he does believe these flows will lead to a stronger dollar. "In short, increased home bias would strongly impact our already bullish dollar forecasts," he said. "We expect the euro to end 2014 at 1.25 and the yen at 110 against the greenback. Renewed repatriation as occurred in the early 1980s and late 1990s would cause the dollar to overshoot our targets for this year." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/David MoirPeople use a Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) cashpoint in Edinburgh, Scotland, November 14, 2012. Here's something we have yet to really see on Wall Street. RBS CEO Ross McEwan admitted this morning that the British megabank clearly wasn't doing what was best or even good for its customers during the financial crisis. In an op-ed for The Guardian, McEwan, who took over as CEO last October, touted the bank's efforts over the past five years "to defuse the bank's legacy of excess, to clean up the culture." And here's the key quote: "In the rush for growth and profit, RBS forgot what banking is about. The bank valued least the people it should have valued most: its customers. We sold them products like PPI which many didn't need, and in some cases didn't know they had. Our customers often felt confused by language they found difficult to understand. We wasted their time with needless bureaucracy. We literally and metaphorically put them at the back of the queue." He adds that his goal is to get RBS "back to the basics of banking." McEwan succeeded Stephen Hester, who was edged out as head of RBS last summer, having posted consecutive years of annual losses. Hester himself replaced Fred Goodwin in 2008 after RBS was bailed out — the bank remains in state receivership.   The whole thing is worth reading. Click here to head over to Guardian.co.uk » FREE AppDownload
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVTalk of a Fed taper and recent weakness in Chinese economic data has caused a rout in emerging markets. As the Fed tapers its quantitative easing program on its path toward monetary policy normalization, experts fear that capital flows could reverse as interest rates rise. This would cause massive strains in these regions. Some of the worst hit emerging market economies have seen slower economic growth and rely heavily on external financing. And now we're hearing constant comparisons between the current turmoil and the 1997 currency crisis in Asia.  But Gluskin Sheff's David Rosenberg thinks it is "unfair" to make such comparisons, and that problems are not as "endemic" this time around.  "This time around, the countries that have suffered the most have their own specific problems, whether they be political, financial, or economic (inflation). But the problems are not endemic this time around and much more idiosyncratic (the regional stock market saw net outflows of 2.7 billion U.S. dollars last week — the heaviest since February 2011 — on top of 2.6 billion dollars the week before). And the aggregate data are actually less worrisome now compared to that horrible 1997-98 meltdown. For instance: "The median current account deficit is now 1.1% of GDP versus 2.9% back in 1998-98. The median fiscal shortfall is 2.6% now versus nearly 4% then. Foreign currency debt now makes up 25% of GDP compared to 40% back in the 1997-98 crisis. Foreign exchange reserves are now equivalent to nearly 50% of total external debt (median) which is about to double the level back in 1997-98 (30% of GDP versus 10% back then)." Rosenberg also points out that we haven't seen the rapid contagion we saw back then. In short, this might not be "your father's emerging market" after all.  FREE AppDownload
From the public Facebook page for Beast the dog.Philanthropists were especially generous in 2013. According to The Chronicle of Philanthropy's annual list, the 50 biggest donors in America donated $7.7 billion in 2013, a 4% increase over the previous year. The median gift was $86.1 million, and 82 causes received gifts of $1 million or more.  Mark Zuckerberg and his wife Priscilla Chan have quickly ascended to the top of The Chronicle's list. After giving away $498.8 million last year, they doubled their charitable donations to close to $1 billion in 2013. Zuckerberg, 29, and Chan, 28, are also by far the youngest donors on the list, which skews much older than last year's. The median age of the philanthropists was 72.5. We're looking at the top 25 donors on this year's list; check out the complete list at The Chronicle of Philanthropy. Net worth: n/a Beneficiary:&nbsp;Georgetown University, Washington, D.C.&nbsp; Background: Frank&nbsp;McCourt founded McCourt Global, a real-estate development and private-equity firm, in New York and Los Angeles. He graduated from Georgetown in 1975 with a degree in economics. His father, both brothers, and one of his four sons are also Georgetown alumni.  Source:&nbsp;The Chronicle of Philanthropy Net worth:&nbsp;$36 billion Beneficiary:&nbsp;New York-Presbyterian Hospital in New York, N.Y.&nbsp; Background:&nbsp;David Koch is the executive vice president of Koch Industries, an industrial conglomerate founded by his father, Fred Koch. He's served as a member of the New York-Presbyterian Hospital's Board of Trustees for 25 years. He and his brother Charles are also known for their large donations to the Republican party. Source:&nbsp;The Chronicle of Philanthropy Net worth:&nbsp;$7.7 billion Beneficiary:&nbsp;Tsinqhua University in China and other groups&nbsp; Background:&nbsp;Stephen&nbsp;Schwarzman is co-founder and chairman of the&nbsp;Blackstone Group, an investment firm.&nbsp; Source:&nbsp;The Chronicle of Philanthropy Net worth:&nbsp;n/a Beneficiary:&nbsp;Weill Cornell Medical College and Carnegie Hall, both in New York, N.Y. Background:&nbsp;Sanford&nbsp;Weill retired in 2006 as chairman of Citigroup, a&nbsp;financial-services company. The Weills have&nbsp;given a total&nbsp;of more than $600-million the medical college and to Cornell University. Source:&nbsp;The Chronicle of Philanthropy Net worth:&nbsp;$2.6 billion Beneficiary:&nbsp;John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington, D.C., Columbia University Medical Center in New York, N.Y., Duke University in Durham, N.C., Mount Vernon Ladies' Association in Virginia, National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C., Thomas Jefferson Foundation in Charlottesville, Va., the University of Chicago Law School and other groups Background:&nbsp;David&nbsp;Rubenstein is a co-founder and co-chief executive of&nbsp;the Carlyle Group, a private-equity firm. He&nbsp;earned a&nbsp;law degree at the University of Chicago in 1973. Source:&nbsp;The Chronicle of Philanthropy Net worth:&nbsp;n/a Beneficiary:&nbsp;The University of California at San Diego, Crazy Horse Memorial Foundation in South Dakota, South Dakota State University and other groups Background:&nbsp;T. Denny&nbsp;Sanford is chairman of United National Corporation, a&nbsp;banking business in Sioux Falls, S.D. He has a home in the San Diego area and has donated to a&nbsp;number of medical-research organizations there. Source:&nbsp;The Chronicle of Philanthropy Net worth:&nbsp;n/a Beneficiary:&nbsp;Salvation Army Northwest Division in Seattle, Wash., University of Washington School of Law, and Seattle Children's Hospital, Research and Foundation Background:&nbsp;Jack&nbsp;MacDonald was a lawyer at the Seattle office of the U.S.&nbsp;Department of Veterans Affairs. He left money that he had invested in a&nbsp;charitable trust after his father sold a meat company. Few people knew he was wealthy. He clipped coupons and rode the bus to&nbsp;avoid attention and set aside as much&nbsp;money as he could for charity. When he died&nbsp;in September, at the age of 98, MacDonald donated nearly his entire estate.&nbsp; Source:&nbsp;The Chronicle of Philanthropy Net worth:&nbsp;n/a Beneficiary:&nbsp;Stanley Family Foundation in Norwalk, Conn., Stanley Center for Psychiatric Research at the Broad Institute in Cambridge, Mass., and other groups Background:&nbsp;Ted&nbsp;Stanley founded MBI, a Norwalk, Conn., company that&nbsp;develops and markets collectible items.&nbsp;Stanley and his wife, who died in July, gave $132.7-million to&nbsp;their Stanley Family Foundation. Source:&nbsp;The Chronicle of Philanthropy Net worth:&nbsp;$1.2 billion Beneficiary:&nbsp;University of Michigan at Ann Arbor, Huntington Library, Art Collections and Botanical Gardens in San Marino, Calif.&nbsp; Background:&nbsp;Charles&nbsp;Munger is vice chairman of Berkshire Hathaway, an&nbsp;insurance and investment company.&nbsp;Although Mr. Munger left the University of Michigan before graduating,&nbsp;he became one of its most generous donors. Source:&nbsp;The Chronicle of Philanthropy Net worth:&nbsp;$1.8 billion Beneficiary:&nbsp;Stanford University in Stanford, Calif. Background:&nbsp;John&nbsp;Arrillaga co-founded Peery Arrillaga, a real estate&nbsp;development firm in Palo Alto, Calif. He graduated from Stanford in 1960 with a degree in geography. Source:&nbsp;The Chronicle of Philanthropy Net worth:&nbsp;$6.9 billion Beneficiary:&nbsp;Broad Foundations in Los Angeles, Calif. Background:&nbsp;Eli&nbsp;Broad is founding chairman of KB Home, a home&nbsp;builder, and of SunAmerica, a financial-services company. Source:&nbsp;The Chronicle of Philanthropy Net worth:&nbsp;n/a Beneficiary:&nbsp;Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University in New York, N.Y. Background:&nbsp;Muriel&nbsp;Block and her late husband, Harold Block, owned&nbsp;commercial real estate in New York. She passed away in 2010 and&nbsp;earmarked her gift to Yeshiva University for biomedical research. Block also&nbsp;served on&nbsp;the board of the medical school&rsquo;s National Women&rsquo;s Division and gave&nbsp;the college a building in 2003 that it sold for nearly $22 million. Source:&nbsp;The Chronicle of Philanthropy Net worth:&nbsp;$14 billion Beneficiary:&nbsp;Columbia Business School and New York University Langone Medical Center, both in New York, N.Y., and other groups Background:&nbsp;Ronald&nbsp;Perelman is chairman and chief executive of&nbsp;MacAndrews &amp; Forbes Holdings, in New York. He has served on the business school&rsquo;s Board of&nbsp;Overseers since 1994. Source:&nbsp;The Chronicle of Philanthropy Net worth:&nbsp;$4.8 billion Beneficiary:&nbsp;University of Michigan at Ann Arbor Background: Stephen Ross founded the Related Companies, a New York real&nbsp;estate development firm. He also owns a majority stake in the Miami&nbsp;Dolphins football team. He said he donated money to the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor to inspire other alumni to give back. Source:&nbsp;The Chronicle of Philanthropy Net worth:&nbsp;$15.8 billion Beneficiary:&nbsp;Paul G. Allen Family Foundation and EMP Museum, both in Seattle, Wash. Background:&nbsp;Paul Allen founded Vulcan Capital investment company and&nbsp;co-founded Microsoft. He&nbsp;supports arts and culture, education, and social-service&nbsp;programs, primarily in the Pacific Northwest. Allen also created the EMP Museum in 2000 to showcase pop culture, rock music and science fiction paraphernalia. Source:&nbsp;The Chronicle of Philanthropy Net worth:&nbsp;n/a Beneficiary:&nbsp;Jeffrey Carlton Charitable Foundation in Paramount, Calif. Background:&nbsp;Jeffrey&nbsp;Carlton founded Press Forge, a Paramount, Calif.-company that processes metals, steel, and titanium for aerospace,&nbsp;nuclear, oil, and gas companies and the military.&nbsp;Carlton, who died in 2012 at age 61, left about $212 million to a&nbsp;trust that will eventually become the Jeffrey Carlton Charitable&nbsp;Foundation. Before he died, Mr. Carlton stipulated that the foundation&rsquo;s&nbsp;sole purpose would be to provide support for four nonprofits: American&nbsp;Lebanese Syrian Associated Charities (the fundraising arm of St. Jude&nbsp;Children&rsquo;s Research Hospital), Hoag Hospital Foundation, Paralyzed&nbsp;Veterans of America, and Principles Inc. (the nonprofit side of Impact&nbsp;Drug and Alcohol Treatment Center). Source:&nbsp;The Chronicle of Philanthropy Net worth:&nbsp;$24.4 billion Beneficiary:&nbsp;Brian Wojcicki Foundation in Palo Alto, Calif. and Michael J. Fox Foundation for Parkinson's Research in New York, N.Y. Background:&nbsp;Sergey Brin co-founded Google, and Anne Wojcicki is a&nbsp;biotechnology analyst who co-founded the genetic-testing company, 23andME.&nbsp;Brin has written about his&nbsp;family&rsquo;s experiences with Parkinson&rsquo;s disease, and he and Wojcicki&nbsp;have previously given nearly $95 million to the Michael J. Fox foundation. Source:&nbsp;The Chronicle of Philanthropy Net worth:&nbsp;$1.6 billion Beneficiary:&nbsp;The Jacobs Technion-Cornell Innovation Institute at Cornell and NYC Tech, both in New York, N.Y., Jewish Community Foundation San Diego Donor Advised Fund, Dunaway Foundation in San Diego, Calif., and San Diego Public Library Foundation Background:&nbsp;Irwin&nbsp;Jacobs is a co-founder of Qualcomm, a wireless-communications company.&nbsp;Irwin and Joan Jacobs give mostly in the San Diego area, but last year&nbsp;their largest donation, a pledge of about $133-million, was made to&nbsp;establish the Jacobs Technion-Cornell Innovation Institute at Cornell&nbsp;NYC Tech. Irwin and Joan both graduated from Cornell University in 1954. Source:&nbsp;The Chronicle of Philanthropy Net worth:&nbsp;$8.5 billion Beneficiary:&nbsp;Omidyar Network, Humanity United, Ulupono Initiative and HopeLab in Palo Alto, Calif.&nbsp;&nbsp; Background:&nbsp;Omidyar founded the online auction company, eBay, in&nbsp;San Jose, Calif. His wife Pam is chairwoman of HopeLab, a Redwood City,&nbsp;Calif., nonprofit that develops technology to help critically ill children.&nbsp; Source:&nbsp;The Chronicle of Philanthropy Net worth:&nbsp;$5.6 billion Beneficiary:&nbsp;Yale University in New Haven, Conn. Background:&nbsp;Charles Johnson headed Franklin Resources, the parent&nbsp;company of Franklin Templeton Investments, which his father founded. He's&nbsp;also the majority&nbsp;shareholder of the San Francisco Giants baseball team. Johnson graduated from&nbsp;Yale in 1954, and recently gave the biggest donation the university has ever received from a living donor. Source:&nbsp;The Chronicle of Philanthropy Net worth:&nbsp;$2.8 billion Beneficiary:&nbsp;Laura and John Arnold Foundation in Houston, Tex., and Fidelity Charitable Gift Fund in Boston, Mass. Background:&nbsp;John&nbsp;Arnold founded Centaurus Energy, a hedge fund, and Laura&nbsp;Arnold is a former corporate lawyer. Their&nbsp;philanthropy supports programs to improve the reliability of scientific&nbsp;research, K-12 public education, the criminal-justice system, and public-policy practices. Source:&nbsp;The Chronicle of Philanthropy Net worth:&nbsp;$31 billion Beneficiary:&nbsp;Arts, education, environment, public health and other causes Background:&nbsp;Michael Bloomberg founded the financial data and news service company that bears his name. He also&nbsp;served three consecutive terms as mayor of New York from 2001 through 2013, and plans&nbsp;to spend more time on his philanthropic efforts&nbsp;now that he is out of office. Source:&nbsp;The Chronicle of Philanthropy Net worth:&nbsp;$16.3 billion Beneficiary:&nbsp;Oregon Health &amp; Science University Foundation Background:&nbsp;Phil&nbsp;Knight is a co-founder and the chairman of Nike. The Knights have routinely donated to OHSU, though neither attended the school, committing over $725 million in just five years.&nbsp; Source:&nbsp;The Chronicle of Philanthropy Net worth:&nbsp;$2 billion Beneficiary:&nbsp;Cynthia and George Mitchell Foundation in The Woodlands, Tex. Background:&nbsp;George Mitchell was the first to use hydraulic fracking in the&nbsp;Barnett shale field in Texas. He sold his company in 2002 to Devon Energy for $3.5 billion. He died last year at the age of 94, leaving $750 million to the foundation he established with his wife in 1978. Over the last 35 years, Mitchell gave away&nbsp;more than $400 million. Source:&nbsp;The Chronicle of Philanthropy Net worth:&nbsp;$19 billion Beneficiary:&nbsp;Silicon Valley Community Foundation in San Mateo, Calif. Background:&nbsp;Mark Zuckerberg is the co-founder and chief executive of Facebook, while his wife Priscilla Chan is a pediatrician. Their latest gift will support programs for children at the Silicon Valley Community Foundation. The couple previously donated $100 million to New Jersey Schools.&nbsp;&nbsp; Source:&nbsp;The Chronicle of Philanthropy FREE AppDownload
Getty ImagesMatthew Goldstein and Alexandra Stevenson have an extensive article in Dealbook on why it's been difficult for the U.S. government to go after Steve Cohen, a.k.a. "The Big Guy."  It's widely believed on Wall Street that Cohen, the founder of once $14 billion Stanford, Conn-based SAC Capital Advisors, is the ultimate target in the government's crackdown on insider trading. Still, the government hasn't been able to accuse him of any wrongdoing. They might not ever be able to either. For starters, Cohen is incredibly careful, according to Dealbook.  He had SAC's offices checked for listening devices before the government's insider trading investigation was revealed. He also suspected that phone calls were being taped, too, the report said citing unnamed sources.  From Dealbook:  Getting at what Mr. Cohen knew is devilishly difficult. After all, this is a man known for caution and secrecy. Generally, the firm did not save most internal emails and instant-message communications before 2009. Even before the investigation became public in October 2009, Mr. Cohen would periodically have SAC offices checked for listening devices, said two people familiar with the matter. In the past, he would even buy up rights from photographers who took his picture, and, to this day, there are few publicly available photos of him. Moreover, Mr. Cohen suspected that the government was listening in. He called a friend in the summer of 2009 to alert him to the possibility that a former associate of both men was surreptitiously taping phone calls in connection with an insider trading probe. That probably made him very careful about what he said. And a government wiretap placed on Mr. Cohen’s home phone that summer turned up no evidence of any wrongdoing, said people briefed on the matter but not authorized to speak publicly. Since August 2009, U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara has successfully convicted 79 people, including a handful of SAC Capital alums, on insider trading charges.  In the case against former SAC portfolio manager Mathew Martoma, Cohen was identified as "Portfolio Manager A."  It was also revealed at Cohen and Martoma had a 20 minute conversation on the phone on a Sunday before the fund exited its positions in drug companies Elan and Wyeth. It's unclear what was said during that conversation. We may never know what was said either. Martoma refused to cooperate with the prosecution.   Cohen, who was absent during Martoma's trial, has not been charged with any wrongdoing. In fact, Cohen may never be charged at all.  He has also said he is confident he acted appropriately. SAC Capital was criminally indicted last summer on insider trading charges.In November, SAC pleaded guilty to criminal insider trading charges and agreed to pay a $1.8 billion fine. Since then, two of SAC's former traders Michael Steinberg and Mathew Martoma were found guilty recently in separate insider trading cases.  In the future, SAC Capital will no longer manage outside capital. Instead, it will operate as a family office fund managing about $9 billion of Cohen's personal wealth and the money of other employees. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
The New York Fed is out with the results of the second installment of its monthly Survey of Consumer Expectations this morning. The report showed that survey respondents' expectations for earnings growth over the next year surged in January, as the chart below illustrates. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from New York Fed) The New York Fed provides a demographic breakdown of the responses to its survey questions, so we can see who exactly is expecting higher wages over the next year than they were in December. In fact, the gains were widespread across every demographic group, as the charts below show. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from New York Fed) Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from New York Fed) Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from New York Fed) Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from New York Fed) FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVThe S&amp;P 500 will climb to 1,900 next quarter, stock market veteran Laszlo Birinyi told Bloomberg's Nick Taborek and Callie Bost. That's around 6% higher than the 1,800 level we're at today. “Short sellers have probably learned their lesson” from 2013, which was a banner year for stocks, Birinyi said. Birinyi seemed unfazed by the relatively brutal start of this year. Tensions in emerging markets and worries about macro issues in China have helped stifle the S&amp;P 500 to its worst start since 2010, Bloomberg notes. From the report: Birinyi, the founder of Birinyi Associates Inc. and one of the first analysts to advise clients to buy when stocks were bottoming after the 2008 financial crisis, said in a phone interview Feb. 7 that the benchmark gauge for U.S. equities will increase almost 6 percent by July. It fell 5.8 percent in the three weeks staring Jan. 15, losses he said signal healthy skepticism that set the stage for more gains. “I don’t like when the market just shrugs these things off,” Birinyi said from Westport, Connecticut. “It’s OK to just stop and take a deep breath. The market should have some sort of a negative reaction when you have problems in Turkey and Argentina. That didn’t make me uncomfortable.” “We’ve had a little bit of a detour and the road isn’t as smooth as it has been, but we still think the rally is intact,” Birinyi told Bloomberg. Read the full report at Bloomberg » FREE AppDownload
In recent weeks, global market headlines have been dominated by emerging market currency volatility and U.S. economic data uncertainty. However, most agree that the emerging markets and the U.S. still have promising longer-term growth prospects. Unfortunately, experts are not as optimistic about Europe, where data continues to remind us of the fragile and anemic nature of the underlying economy. And much of this pessimism comes from the continent's failure to compete effectively in recent years. This is captured well in this chart of global earnings share from Societe Generale's Andrew Lapthorne. "Earnings weakness and a lack of major IPOs has seen Europe’s share of MSCI World earnings slump to its lowest point since 1986," wrote Lapthorne in a note to clients today. "This is mainly due to the slump in Eurozone profit share, but also a lack of Googles and Apples in Europe." "Those preferring Europe versus US equities going forward will, we think, need to see evidence of this trend reversing," Lapthorne added Societe Generale FREE AppDownload
Flickr/CarlfishAtlassian’s 2005 Christmas Party in Sydney, Australia. Mike Cannon-Brookes is shoeless, leaning into his seat behind a conference table in Atlassian’s heritage-listed Sydney office. He raises one knee, exposing brightly coloured Superman socks. Chairman Doug Burgum, here on one of his regular visits from the US, comments on his CEO’s outfit. It’s “the same white t-shirt you’ve been wearing for three days”. Burgum too is in a simple grey t-shirt and jeans. Co-CEO Scott Farquhar is there, sporting the comfortable, navy company t-shirt that many employees wear for simplicity. The latter two are wearing shoes. These three are the leaders of Atlassian, the Australian software industry star which is on its way to making a global splash with a likely US stock exchange debut that many expect will value the company at well over a billion dollars. Co-founders Cannon-Brookes and Farquhar, both 34, have been among Australia’s richest people for the past seven years. Enterprise software isn’t the sexiest of businesses but Atlassian has shown that corporate success in Australia doesn’t need to be in the nation’s traditionally bankable sectors like resources and manufacturing. Economists and policymakers have been increasingly adamant that Australia needs to start looking at other sectors for future job creation. Federal Treasurer Joe Hockey called for significant changes to the nation’s economic structure just this week. At the same time, Atlassian on Tuesday got the green light to move its corporate headquarters to London, where it gains certain advantages, especially in tax arrangements, that will help its preparation for a stock market listing. The move has caused some consternation in Australian technology industry. Some see it as the company abandoning its roots. The blow is compounded by the status of Atlassian’s founders: they are the poster boys for the Australian tech startup sector. They are millionaires hundreds of times over, the entrepreneurs others look at and think: that could be me. The early Atlassian was a fairytale startup. It ran on a credit card. One of its founders was a university scholarship drop-out. All the early staff were their mates. One of its founding values was a flourish of Sydney-sider brassiness: “Don’t f*** the customer.” Atlassian’s core product, a project management and bug tracking tool known as Jira, is now a global standard, with customers ranging from the likes of NASA and universities to tech giants like eBay and Twitter. Getting to this point has taken them through poker binges, a dodgy corporate apartment in San Francisco, and the death of a close friend: Jeffrey Walker, the first person Atlassian hired in the US. This is the story of how they did it. For young men who have built a 750-person multinational after starting out with a $10,000 credit card, Cannon-Brookes and Farquhar are notoriously understated. The trait spills over to their company, which maintains a relatively low profile in the investment community and in the media. In Atlassian’s early days, the founders turned down about a dozen approaches from would-be investors or buyers whose offers came shockingly short of the company’s value. They didn’t all end badly: One of those approaches was from Jay Simons of Plumtree Software, now Atlassian’s president. Another was a Brisbane technology firm which, eight years ago, abruptly ended talks – Cannon-Brookes says “they kicked us out” – after realising Atlassian, then turning over $10 million a year, was a bigger company than they were. When Farquhar approached Burgum to chair Atlassian in 2012, picking up the phone in Sydney and dialling his direct line in North Dakota, the technology industry veteran didn’t recognise the company name, even though he was highly familiar with Jira. “It was four in the afternoon and a cold call on their part,” said Burgum. “Other companies that I worked with were Jira customers, but like a lot of people, I guess, I had heard of the products but I hadn’t heard about the company.” Atlassian now books revenues of $US150 million a year but still behaves as an underdog. Pete Cooper, who mentors a wide range of Australian startups and organises the annual SydStart conference, describes Cannon-Brookes and Farquhar as reluctant industry statesmen whose public personalities contrast sharply with other Australian technology entrepreneurs – “PR juggernauts” like Matt Barrie and Ruslan Kogan. “There’s a lot more humility in Mike and Scott; their street cred doesn’t come from talking, but doing,” Cooper said. “Over a thousand start-up people come to see Mike speak at SydStart. People gravitate to them. Mike’s opinion is highly regarded, whether he wants that or not. “There’s that tall poppy syndrome in Australia, but [Cannon-Brookes and Farquhar] are not flashy and they’re uniquely colloquial. They’ve made it cool to be commercially successful in software, which is especially difficult in enterprise software.” Flickr/mjryallScott Farquhar and Mike Cannon-Brookes address staff at Atlassian’s 5th birthday celebration in April 2007.Cannon-Brookes and Farquhar met through the University of New South Wales’ prestigious co-op scholarship program. They registered Atlassian as a business name with ASIC in 2001, and set up today’s software company in a modest Kent Street office in October 2002. At the time, NASDAQ investors were reeling from the dot-com crash and Australian digital ventures were few and far between. An April 2013 Google-PricewaterhouseCoopers report found that only a tiny percentage of today’s 1,500 technology startups were survivors from 2001. Jobs listing site SEEK is one of the few still standing after riding out the dot-com boom and bust. Today it has a market capitalisation of $4.4 billion on the ASX but the SEEK experience shows just how tough the environment was for tech entrepreneurs at the time. SEEK started in 1997 and went through six capital-raising rounds before it listed on the stock market in April 2005. Co-founder Paul Bassat recalls earlier rounds were “very quick and easy” – but everything changed when the bubble popped. By 2001, the year Atlassian was formed, both investors and potential entrepreneurs were in short supply. “We did one [capital raising] round in 2001 and that was a long, difficult round because people to some extent had lost confidence in internet companies,” Bassat said. “The market moved from a period of ‘irrational exuberance’, as Alan Greenspan described it, to what was probably irrational pessimism. There wasn’t an abundance of capital and there weren’t as many entrepreneurs looking to put up their hand. “There’s no question that the dotcom crash took the wind out of the sails for some time.” Former UNSW students – even technologists in the co-op scholarship program – say they heard little about Atlassian until the mid-2000s, when its revenues had cracked $15 million and the company was starting to make headlines in technology press. The rags-to-riches story of Atlassian’s founding hit the mainstream by 2010, when the bootstrapped company accepted its first ever capital injection – $US60 million from Accel Partners, which was the US venture fund’s largest ever investment in a software company at the time. Alex North, who graduated from the UNSW program in 2005 and went on to work for several high-profile technology companies, said there was little appetite for entrepreneurship among his classmates, but Atlassian’s success had since helped to build interest in local ventures. “When I was finishing uni there was little talk or excitement about starting new companies right out of school. It wasn’t specifically encouraged as an alternative to employment,” he said. “We knew about the Atlassian guys, but at the time they weren’t enough of a success story to change the conversation. I was lucky to find a start-up, Sensory Networks, to join, and left 18 months later to start my first business, but that wasn’t something many people did. “Over the past decade that conversation has changed, especially as Atlassian ramped up graduate recruiting and people realised they could start another Atlassian, not just work there.” UNSWMike Cannon-Brookes, David Gonski and Scott FarquharAtlassian’s founders say they were sub-par students. Farquhar barely maintained the 65 per cent average required to retain the four-year co-op scholarship while Cannon-Brookes’ grade fell from a high distinction in his first semester to 53 per cent upon graduation – just enough to get that “piece of paper” his mum had insisted on. Cannon-Brookes relinquished his scholarship after two years and a “mind-numbing, boring” internship to build a business with Niki Scevak (now of Blackbird Ventures), to the consternation of his course coordinators. “It was not a done thing to leave this prestigious scholarship, especially not to start your own thing,” he explained. The university sang a different tune last year, when it distinguished the Atlassian boys with the 2013 Young Alumni Award. They accepted the award from David Gonski last March. Cannon-Brookes even went without his signature baseball cap for the ceremony. Farquhar claims that he didn’t even know of the word “entrepreneur” until winning an award for it in 2006. His goal? To avoid a “real job” while other co-op scholars stepped into positions at IBM, Nortel, PriceWaterhouseCoopers, and the ASX, while still making the PwC graduate salary of $48,500 each. Mike Cannon-BrookesA March 2008 presentation on ‘Scaling Atlassian’ by Mike Cannon-Brookes.Atlassian’s founders didn’t start off knowing exactly what they would sell, but they wanted it to be software. They had an assumption: once developed, software could be replicated and sold cheaply, and distributing the product would get even cheaper and easier as internet speeds improved. The assumption turned out to be a solid one. Jira was released for download in April 2002. Revenues quickly grew from $1 million in the company’s first year to $14.9 million in 2005-06, when Cannon-Brookes and Farquhar were named Young Entrepreneurs and Entrepreneurs of the Year by accounting giant Ernst &amp; Young. By June 2006, Atlassian had some 4,340 customers and 50 staff in Sydney and San Francisco who developed, supported and marketed Jira, and a collaboration platform, Confluence. Atlassian’s headcount nearly doubled again to 98 by June 2007, when it booked revenues of $22.5 million for the year. Initially, Farquhar said his management philosophy was based on his co-op internship experiences and those of his former classmates, and was less about what to do than what not to. “When we would go to lunch with friends who had joined all these other companies, the biggest problem we found was that they thought their managers were idiots in some ways,” he said. “More than that, they had no mechanism to make a change. They always felt that they weren’t empowered and I said to Mike, ‘Shit, I hope no one ever leaves Atlassian and goes to their lunchtimes and bitches about how they can’t get stuff done.’ “That led, eventually, to one of our values being ‘be the change that you seek’.” Scott FarquharAtlassian’s values, from a 2010 presentation on ‘The Business of Software’ by Scott Farquhar. Atlassian was famously built on five core values, reflecting the 22-year-old founders’ ideals: Lachlan Hardy, a former Atlassian design engineer who is now a technical evangelist for Microsoft Australia, said the Atlassian attitudes and people were the highlights of the two-and-a-half years he worked there, starting in December 2007. “The company values are actively used in conversation, blog posts and documentation with complete sincerity,” he said, recalling sayings like: “If we change this feature, are we F***ing The Customer?”; “Staying late on this project is not Building With Heart And Balance”; and “If you think that’s wrong, why don’t you Be The Change You Seek?” Twelve years since founding, Atlassian’s values are known not just by its 750 staff but also 30,000 customers, investors and the wider technology industry. When the founders finally warmed to Accel’s $US60 million partnership, the venture firm sent them a t-shirt featuring the acronym DFTPC: “Don’t f—k the portfolio company.” Flickr/CarlfishMike Cannon-Brookes at Atlassian’s 2005 Christmas partyIn its early years, Atlassian was largely an enthusiastic band of former UNSW students and their siblings and partners. People would pitch in on all manner of things, from coding to setting up furniture to social poker games. Matt Ryall, who joined the company from Macquarie Bank in January 2006, recalls Farquhar’s initial surprise at receiving his job application: “I was talking to [one of my friends] over beers one night about how I wasn’t super happy in my role and he said, ‘Why don’t you check out those Atlassian guys’. “I sent my resume in that night tojobs@atlassian.com and Scott said he didn’t understand why someone would apply to work at Atlassian because he was like, ‘Who do you know in the company?’ “At that point, there were 25 people in the company, I think, and everybody knew everybody else – they were all friends of friends, or went to university together. So I was one of the first people they hired that didn’t come from a referral.” Director of developer relations Jonathan Nolen joined in late 2005 and was the company’s second US hire after Walker. He describes a close-knit group of 20-something-year-old men who literally worked, played and lived together. Things moved quickly. By early 2006 Atlassian’s US team comprised about 10 people on Alabama Street in San Francisco’s Mission District. Cannon-Brookes and Farquhar were hands-on co-CEOs and each spent about half of that first year establishing the office and Atlassian culture with the fledgling team. “They just rented an apartment from the very beginning, in the Tenderloin actually,” Nolen said, referring to the seedy downtown neighbourhood. “Nobody actually got mugged, but it was a place where a lot of students lived, so it was a relatively inexpensive apartment in a big tower. “It was a two-bedroom, so anyone who was coming in would use the spare bedroom. People talk about how intimidating that is, to have the CEO of the company hanging out with you in an apartment, but at the time I didn’t feel intimidated at all. “These guys were in their early 20s. I liked them, and they were friends, so we would hang out. We would go to dinner, we would go out drinking, we would talk forever – and always about the product actually, or at least about the business. “Everyone was so passionate about what the product was, what we wanted to do, how we wanted to make it better, because we used it every day. So we would argue late into the night about what feature should come next and why that was important and what that would do for the overall business.” For the US team, Friday afternoon lunches were invariably at Mexican restaurant Puerto Alegre on the opposite end of the Mission, with pitcher after pitcher of margaritas to “celebrate whatever it was that we needed to celebrate”. Business Insider AustraliaAtlassian band session in San FranciscoWalker was a jazz guitarist and would set up 4pm jam sessions on Fridays with like-minded employees, including sales engineer Elisa “Boots” Wang on the drums and marketer Morgan Friberg on the guitar. They were people Walker clearly enjoyed spending time with, according to a blog post published months before he died in 2009. “Jeffrey had an enormous impact on the culture,” Nolen said. “He was the most amazing guy. He gave me tons of really good advice about how to work in the company, how to overcome the Pacific divide and how to interact with people both internally and externally.” Meanwhile, Australian staff bonded over Texas Hold’em poker tournaments involving up to $20 buy-ins. There was “a lot of showboating and stupid bets”, according to Justen Stepka, who joined Atlassian’s Sydney office after it bought his internet security start-up, Authentisoft, in mid-2006. Stepka now manages Atlassian’s BitBucket and SourceTree products from San Francisco. “Atlassian had a big gaming culture,” he said. “We played a lot of poker, we played a lot of board games, we played a lot of video games. A lot of us were geeks, so we would stay after work and do geeky things. I ended up learning to play poker in order to hang out with those guys.” Under an Atlassian house rule, hold’em players collected an additional couple of dollars from every other player if they managed to win a hand with the worst possible hole cards: a 7 and 2 of different suits. Product engineer, now development manager, Nick Menere “was the king of it,” Stepka said. One weekend after the global financial crisis, Cannon-Brookes and seven other Atlassian employees checked into a Melbourne hotel to play poker at the Crown Casino for “ten hours a day, for three days straight”. A group of Atlassian employees would later do a world tour together, taking in Las Vegas. But it was the earlier, more frugal days that Stepka liked best: “We played quite a few tournaments… those are some of the best memories I actually have of Atlassian at the beginning. “We had games on Friday at 1pm in Sydney where it’s a $5 buy-in, tournament style and the antes go up every 5 minutes until there’s a winner. Once a month, we would play on Wednesdays – that was a lot of fun too. “We were all kids at the beginning, we didn’t have wives or girlfriends or things like that. I don’t remember playing so much with Scott, but Mike would definitely push all in and go for that showmanship moment. He’s not afraid of a little risk in poker.” Flickr/CarlfishAn office poker game in San Francisco As far as technology entrepreneurs go, however, most say Cannon-Brookes and Farquhar rank among the more conservative. When Sergey Brin and Larry Page recruited Eric Schmidt as chairman and later CEO in 2001, the then-27 year olds told journalists that it was so Schmidt could provide adult supervision.Harvard Business Review’s Julia Kirby put Facebook’s Sheryl Sandberg and Apple’s Mike Markkula in the same category: older, wiser businesspeople to manage young founders Mark Zuckerberg, Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak. Business Insider AustraliaIn some ways, it worked the other way around at Atlassian. The founders were the conservatives, and Walker’s experience and insight – having led companies like CSC and Accrue Software – helped build confidence to up the ante. He was far from Atlassian’s chaperone. “Jeffrey was like the least responsible 50-year-old I know,” Nolen said. “He was very social, very easy going, very risk-friendly, so I think he provided the benefit of experience, but I never witnessed any real conflict between youth and age or anything like that. “In fact, it feels to me that more often, Mike and Scott would be on the conservative side of an argument, saying, ‘Maybe we shouldn’t try that’ and Jeffrey would be the one saying ‘Come on, how bad could it be’.” Burgum similarly shies away from being seen as the grown-up in the room, recalling his days as founder, chairman and CEO of Great Plains Software from 1983. “When I was in their shoes decades and decades ago, I was saying, ‘Wow, it would be good to get some adult supervision in my life’,” he said of his thoughts during his first meeting with Atlassian in San Francisco. “It was weird that all of a sudden I realised during the meeting that these guys were looking for adult supervision and they were asking me. When did I get old?” Research suggests the biggest danger facing startups is “premature scaling”, where a business tries to grow faster than demand for the product allows. Atlassian has grown from two people to today’s 750, so timing the various phases of expansion has been critical. All things considered, Nolen said Atlassian was “very un-Silicon Valley” in how slowly and deliberately it grew. Cannon-Brookes and Farquhar struck a balance between carefully considered strategy and rolling with the punches, with the company’s limited funds helping to constrain its scale in the early days. “It was usually painfully obvious when we needed someone for each role. We haven’t done a great job of hiring ahead of the curve until more recently,” Farquhar said. “At first it was more like, ‘Oh, we need someone to count the money. Ok, that’s a book-keeper, they file the tax returns.’ You know, you hire because you need the people.” Business Insider AustraliaScott Farquhar presenting at an Atlassian user conferenceAs Atlassian’s leaders, Cannon-Brookes and Farquhar have grown with the company, learning from mentors like Walker and Burgum, filling any skills gaps – like how to give staff constructive feedback – with training when needed, and getting the unusual co-CEO structure to function effectively. San Francisco-based Jay Simons said the duo had become more effective as co-CEOs over time, with Cannon-Brookes typically taking charge of product management, design and strategy, sales, and marketing, and Farquhar focussing on engineering and business operations. “We’d be scripting the keynote [for a user conference] and sometimes they might have different ideas,” he said of the initial challenges of having two bosses. “It’s really important to clarify who gets to make the call here or if we’ve got two different ideas, which one we are taking out of the room. “I’ve seen them develop that skill, where they become a lot more effective as dual CEOs over time, because they’ve learned to channel their double energy.” The $US60 million that Atlassian took from Accel in 2010 wasn’t money they desperately needed. The two founders were each valued at $30 million on BRW’s 2007 Young Rich List. They’ve been rising through the ranks since, and have topped since 2012. Farquhar said the Accel deal was more of a “symbolic” gesture, indicating the company was ready to start reaching beyond its beginnings. According to Simons, who joined from BEA Systems as VP of sales and marketing in mid-2008, the deal came after a particularly difficult 12 months. Walker was a cancer survivor, nearing the five-year anniversary of his first scare. In mid-2009, he went to his doctor complaining of a pain in his leg that turned out to be a tumor. Surgery didn’t help and his condition deteriorated quickly – colleagues thought all was well just three weeks before he passed in September. “There were about 50 of us [in San Francisco] when he [Walker] passed away, and we were in the middle of the global financial crisis,” Simons recalled. “When you look back and think about moments when the company reaches down and grabs its future and builds on top of greatness, that was one of those. Because there were a bunch of rocky moments throughout 2009.” Atlassian did hit some happier landmarks that year as well. Cannon-Brookes and Farquhar each turned 30, got married and took three-month-long honeymoons within 12 months, leaving the other party to run the company solo. The co-founders had casually spoken of building a company that outlived themselves for some time, but it wasn’t until they returned from their respective travels in 2010 that their long-term plans solidified. “We’d talked about it, but that conversation when we actually sat down and said, ‘what are we going to do’ was probably three or four years ago, when we said, ‘Do we want to build this up for an exit? How are we going to set up our lives?’,” Farquhar said. “What we wanted to do was either double down and build this into something that was really long-lasting, or decide that hey, this was one venture and we’d spend 10 years on this one, and go on to spend 10 years on something else. “We thought that this was this was a great canvas to paint on for a lot longer, so the next ambitious goal was to set it up to last beyond ourselves, so we decided to get venture funding from Accel. “That was somewhat symbolic… sort of a starting point for us to go on a faster growth trajectory. That’s when we built up our board of directors and brought in a few more senior people.” Cannon-Brookes and Farquhar travelled to the US to meet with Accel in April 2010, received term sheets in May, and announced the $US60 million deal to staff and the public in July that year. In July 2012, Atlassian announced that it had recruited former SuccessFactors and Great Plains Software chairman Doug Burgum, former Adobe CFO Murray Demo and former VMWare executive Kirk Bowman to the board. The board previously comprised Cannon-Brookes, Farquhar and Accel representative Rich Wong. Facebook VP of infrastructure engineering Jay Parikh and former Symantec CEO Enrique Salem joined in August last year, bringing the number of members to eight. Atlassian’s board appointments fuelled speculation about an impending IPO, especially as Burgum had taken Great Plains public as chairman and CEO in 1997, and sold it four years later to Microsoft for $US1.1 billion. The company has yet to speak directly about when it might list, or in fact whether or not it would do so, but executives have made plenty of comments and decisions to indicate that a float is not far off. Company president Simons told Business Insider Australia in November that the company was working towards a broad, ten-year plan in two-year increments. The latest long-term plan was set up in 2012, and the next two-year goalpost is December 2014. Business Insider AustraliaJay Simons at an Atlassian user conferenceFarquhar and Connecticut-born Cannon-Brookes have long indicated a preference for a US IPO, to the dismay of many Australian entrepreneurs, investors and start-up industry observers. The company recently moved to establish a holding firm in England and Wales to support a listing on NASDAQ or the NYSE, expecting Britain’s foreign investment regime to be more relaxed and its corporate law better understood internationally than Australian regulations. Shareholders began transferring shares to a holding company for the UK move this week. According to documents filed in December, an unnamed investor will buy up to 8 per cent of Atlassian following the restructure. Atlassian executives say Australian investors simply don’t understand the software business as well as US investors might because there are fewer ASX-listed technology companies to compare Atlassian against. There were 69 software and services companies listed on the ASX as of mid-January. Freelancer.com founder Matt Barrie disagrees, pointing to his company’s spectacular, billion-dollar ASX float last November as proof. Freelancer was forecasting 2013 revenue of $18.3 million at the time. Barrie said he had been lobbying the Atlassian co-founders to stay in Australia for years. “They’re sick of it,” he said, laughing, but added: “The minute they accepted money from Accel, this [US listing] was going to happen.” Various news reports have put Atlassian close to pulling the trigger on a US IPO since 2012, but it was only last December that it issued an official offer inviting staff to apply for share options. Business Insider AustraliaAs of January 28, there were a total of 178,899,959 Atlassian shares, of which the co-founders held a combined 78 per cent; Accel held 15.21 per cent; philanthropic arm Atlassian Foundation held 1.12 per cent, Burgum held 0.22 per cent, Simons held 0.19 per cent, and staff, including directors and senior developer Anton Mazkovoi held just over 5 per cent.* Despite the British restructure and US float, Atlassian executives on either side of the Pacific reject the notion that the company would lose its Australian roots, highlighting German software giant SAP as an example of a foreign-headquartered company traded on the NYSE. SAP is also traded on the Frankfurt and Stuttgart Stock Exchanges. It is unclear how the establishment of a British holding company might impact Atlassian’s day-to-day operations. Australian Communications Minister Malcolm Turnbull downplayed the decision in a public Q&amp;A this year, describing it as a “corporate move” that did “not involve moving their team or business there”. To many, though, it’s a bit like a lover moving all their things out of an apartment while saying the relationship’s still intact. Meanwhile, Burgum told Business Insider Australia late last year that there was nothing that would force the co-founders to move to the US should the company list on Wall Street. “It’s not a listing requirement and these two have clearly shown that they can lead a global company based out of Sydney. They may have to travel more than they want to but that’s part of building a global company, no matter where you’re based,” he said. Atlassian executives have been tight-lipped about the timing of a float, with Simons stating only that it would occur “when we’re ready to”. Generally speaking, companies looking to float on a US stock exchange would need to be Sarbanes-Oxley compliant, implement suitable financial systems, and understand and mitigate the risks of going public by making any big, difficult decisions – like introducing new products, changing prices, or making major investments – before listing. On the other hand, listing benefits employees by putting a value on their equity, provides a marketing event to help grow Atlassian’s global profile, raises capital and allows for equity-funded acquisitions, and lays the foundations for a company looking to stand the test of time. Burgum said Atlassian’s business model, involving recurring subscription fees rather than software sales, would allow it to list in the US without requiring significant changes to financial systems and strategies. “I believe that this company will have one of the easiest transitions to becoming a public company of any company that I’ve seen,” he said. “The biggest challenge for companies is when they start out, they think very long term, but when they go public in the US they have to start thinking about quarterly results. That drives a cycle of short-term thinking. “But with the business model of this company, where there’s recurring revenue that’s not driven by a sales force that’s incentivised to close deals on the last day of the quarter, I believe that Scott and Mike are still going to be able to do long-term thinking and long-term investing as a public company. “That’s a luxury that most public companies don’t have but it’s a direct credit to the business model that they’ve built.” Technology companies have raised obscene amounts of money in US floats in recent years, with Twitter making a $US24 billion debut in November despite it operating at a loss. Analysts at the time expected Twitter to bring in 2014 revenues of $US1.14 billion, giving the company an astounding price-to-sales ratio (PSR) of 21. A 2012 Bloomberg analysis of cloud software vendors found that firms had an average PSR of about 8.1. Google had a PSR of 8.7 as of its 2004 IPO. Should a listing occur, Simons said Atlassian’s market capitalisation would be “comparable” to other software companies with its revenue. According to YCharts data on the software application industry, companies bringing in quarterly revenues of $US40 million have an average market capitalisation of just under $US1.5 billion – a PSR of about 9.4. Simons acknowledged that Atlassian had considered “a lot of” investment banks that might lead an IPO but didn’t have any favourites as of November. Xero.comMike Cannon-Brookes presents as a guest speaker at Xero’s developer day.Australia’s startup community has seen a quiet but sure resurgence in the past decade. Some part of that growth must be attributed to the Atlassian success – the nation’s first software company to scale to its size, at its speed. Atlassian alumni have gone on to help build newer start-ups like BigCommerce, Shoes of Prey, Ninja Blocks and Skiddoo, many of which have funding from Cannon-Brookes, Farquhar, or both. Meanwhile, new early-stage venture funds, incubators and a range of co-working spaces have emerged across the country and in Sydney and Melbourne in particular: from Tank Stream Labs in the heart of Sydney’s CBD to the grungier Fishburners in Ultimo and the York Butter Factory in Melbourne. Since accepting money from Accel in 2010, the Atlassian co-founders have tipped millions from their own pockets into local start-ups. Both contribute to Scevek’s seed fund StartMate and Blackbird Ventures, as well as incubator Pollenizer. “We’ve invested in funds that have a domestic focus. Part of that is patriotism, I guess; but also, we want to help out,” Farquhar told Business Insider Australia last June. “We look at a whole bunch of younger people who are running smaller businesses and say, how can we help them – what is the help that we would have liked when we started Atlassian. “I haven’t set financial targets; hopefully it’s successful and you make money, but I think you have to be willing to lose, investing in start-ups.” Many in Australia say it would have been better for the country if Atlassian had been willing to list on the local stock exchange, as it would have helped attract investor attention and lay the foundations for future entrepreneurs. Freelancer’s Barrie believes Australia needs more successful technology businesses to list on the ASX to help stem the constant bleeding of high-performing businesses and talent. Local technology entrepreneurs face an unfortunate chicken-and-egg predicament, with many software companies driven to list offshore because of a lack of software companies in Australia. And if the cycle continues, the national economy will remain “quite primitive”, Barrie says, highlighting its heavy reliance on services, mining, manufacturing and agriculture. Over the years, few have had a bad word to say about the Atlassian founders – even Barrie blames a lack of Australian government support rather than faulting Cannon-Brookes and Farquhar. “They’re a fantastic team, great guys, well-respected, well-liked, and I think the government should be doing everything it can to keep them in the country. It’s a tragedy for the country that they’re going offshore,” he said. “Tech really is out of sight and out of mind in Australia. It slips between the cracks of various [ministerial] portfolios and responsibilities: broadband, communications, innovation and others. “I can’t think of any other industry with a better wealth and productivity multiplier than technology, and the only people who are hiring people and growing are startups.” On the other hand, software engineer North suggested that Atlassian’s global reputation was giving Australian start-ups a wider reach, helping them attract funds not only locally but also offshore. “There have been a few companies recently raise significant money from US investors: BigCommerce, Canva, Shoes of Prey, Posse to name a few,” he said. “I’m sure they all pointed to Atlassian as an example of how an Australian HQ can still reach a global market. Newer Australian VCs like Blackbird and Square Peg believe the same thing of their investments.” And while Paul Bassat may have chosen to list SEEK on the ASX, he said he didn’t have “a strong view” on the Atlassian decision without knowing all the details of the business. Bassat left the jobs listing site in 2011 and now invests in and mentors early-stage businesses with Square Peg Capital. “I don’t think there’s any question that the success [Atlassian has] enjoyed has had a positive impact on the sector, by inspiring potential entrepreneurs and also because Mike and Scott are active investors and spokespeople for the industry,” he said. Business Insider AustraliaMike Cannon-Brookes hosts an information session with new staff. As Atlassian grows, SydStart’s Pete Cooper – a former investment banker, technologist, and entrepreneur – said its biggest challenge would be innovating at scale. Small, flexible start-ups generally pride themselves on being the disruptors to the bigger, more established “disrupted”. And with Atlassian now boasting some 30,000 customers, some technologists say it could easily coast on previous successes and rely on having those organisations locked in for now. “Atlassian’s approaching its mid-career. They’re in the big company category now, or they will be in 2015, so then the question becomes how do you innovate in a company of 2000-plus staff,” Cooper said. Atlassian spent almost $US58 million on research and development last financial year, far outstripping its $US19 million spend on sales and marketing and $US25 million on administration. To date, the company has bolstered its product portfolio by building what it needs and buying what it can. Besides Stepka’s Authentisoft, Atlassian has acquired tools like Crucible, Fisheye and Clover with Australian company Cenqua in 2007, and instant messenger HipChat in a 2012 deal valued at $US8.4 million. And bigger purchases may be on the cards, with executives highlighting the potential to pay for acquisitions with stock among the benefits of an IPO. Cooper pointed to the likes of Google, Apple and Macquarie Group as giants that continued to innovate, with the latter getting past the issue of scale by operating as an “independent, federated network of entrepreneurs”. Former Google employees have described a similar, positive experience of working in a “collection of startups” rather than feeling like an anonymous cog in a multi-tiered, 46,000-person machine. But for now, at least, Atlassian consistently ranks among Australia’s top places to work. Cooper – who recently joined the University of Technology Sydney’s engineering and IT faculty as director of innovation and growth – says its graduate positions are in high demand. Atlassian prides itself on hiring selectively but keeping turnover to a minimum, fostering a high-performing environment that former design engineer Hardy initially found challenging. “After I’d been there for 5 months … it still seemed quite overwhelming. How [was I] to know if I was useful? Everyone there is just so damned switched on,” he said. “[A product manager] told me he’d had a similar conversation with Mike Cannon-Brookes when he’d been there for 6 months. Mike told him not to worry, saying something along the lines of: ‘Everybody takes time to settle in. Everybody we hire was a big fish in a small pond. Now they’re swimming with other big fish and it can take up to 6 months to adjust.’ I found that to be true.” Besides its major offices in San Francisco and Sydney, Atlassian now has an office in Amsterdam and staff in Poland, Manila, Vietnam and Tokyo. Its headcount grew almost exponentially in its first six years and it has remained in a perpetual “hiring spree”, taking on another 100 staff across the globe in the first quarter of this financial year alone. Simons, Cannon-Brookes and Farquhar hold Q&amp;A sessions with each batch of new recruits in the bigger offices. The co-founders take turns to conduct those sessions every month in Sydney. “We have an open-plan [office] and always have had an open door policy,” says the founders’ executive assistant Ruth Kapea, who joined Atlassian from more traditional finance and public sector organisations in late 2010 and now refers to her bosses as “the boys”. “We have that many new staff starting that once a month I book in a Q&amp;A founder session. Up to 10 people are invited … The newbies can just come in and ask the boys anything. That way, the boys get to meet the new staff and vice versa. They love it because they’re around other enthusiastic IT people. “It’s an even structure [within Atlassian]. The boys will wander the floor; if I don’t stick something in Mike’s diary, he often goes down and hangs out with his team.” Atlassian executives are all too aware that some highlights of its earlier days, like friendships and time, may be impossible to achieve at scale. The founders said they had to adapt to a more hands-off approach to getting things done. “You’re managing managers who manage managers who manage people doing important things,” Cannon-Brookes said. “The biggest challenge has definitely been scaling ourselves and the biggest surprise is that we’ve managed to. “Fundamentally, when the business scales at the rate of products or customers or whatever, the team you have at 100 people is not the team you have at 800 people, and not the team you have at 8,000 people.” And as longer-serving staff mature, some have noticed little changes in the company’s social activities and decor. Every six weeks, Sydney staff, their partners and children are invited to a social “TGIF” event, be it a quiz night, mini-golf, or sumo wrestling. There’s also an annual Atlassian Family Day – the company hosted 150 children of its 400 or so Sydney staff at the Featherdale Wildlife Park in December 2012. Flickr/CarlfishAtlassian Family Day 2007“’Don’t F*** The Customer’ changed to ‘Don’t #@!% The Customer’ towards the end of my time there because employees bringing their kids in – a regular occurrence for some – didn’t want ‘f***’ written in large letters on the wall. We still pronounce it the same way, though,” Hardy said. Ryall describes Atlassian’s growth with the Big Bang theory. In the early days, the Atlassian universe was relatively small, and people had a view of everything else that was going on. That became more difficult as the universe expanded and other bodies – people, projects, goals and teams – moved irrevocably further away. Atlassian has tried to bridge the gaps with more formal communication channels like blogs, regular social events, the odd note on a wall, and “rites of passage” like having new San Francisco hires be responsible for delivering beer to all staff on Friday afternoons. “We always joked that we wouldn’t become the kind of company that posts announcements on the walls of a bathroom because it seems clichéd and kind of corporate,” Simons said. “But we do that now, and that’s kind of because there are things that you want to make sure people see everywhere they go and that’s a place that they go.” And while some like Nolen, who moved from Santa Barbara for Atlassian eight years ago, saw his colleagues as his earliest friends in San Francisco, most staff acknowledge that the days of all-staff poker nights and pub crawls have come to an end. “They say the mythical human team size limit is 150,” Simons said, referring to Dunbar’s number, which is the theoretical maximum number of stable relationships people are capable of maintaining. “So far, I’ve scaled past that but it’s hard. I remember this at BEA where you see somebody repeatedly and so you both know each other but you don’t know their name and you’ve seen them four times in a row so both of you are embarrassed to say ‘I don’t remember your name’, so you never ask. “I pride myself on knowing every name in the [Atlassian] building, in part because I work really hard at it.” “But friends is probably a little too strong a word,” he said. Liz Tay is on Twitter, @liztayau * Data on Atlassian’s share distribution was corrected on 10 February 2014. The original article stated Burgum held 6.98 per cent and Accel 9.72 per cent of shares as of 12 December 2013. This was incorrect and the article has been updated accordingly. This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike BlakeAmericans think it's easier than ever to get a mortgage, according to a new survey from Fannie Mae. An all-time high 52% of survey respondents said it would be easy to get a mortgage. Fannie has been conducting the survey for three and a half years. "Consumer attitudes toward the economy also improved in January despite downbeat jobs data for the past two months," according to the report. "The share of consumers who believe the economy is on the right track climbed 8 percentage points to 39 percent, while the share who believe it’s on the wrong track declined to 54 percent." Here's the full release from Fannie Mae: WASHINGTON, DC – More Americans now believe it would be easy for them to get a mortgage, according to Fannie Mae’s January 2014 National Housing Survey results. Consumer attitudes regarding the ease of getting a mortgage climbed 2 percentage points to an all-time survey high of 52 percent, while those who think it would be difficult dropped 3 points to 45 percent. This indicates that consumers perceive that mortgage credit is more accessible. Even though this month’s survey shows a more moderate expectation for home price gains within the next 12 months, the view that mortgage credit is more available may allow for continued but measured improvement in the housing recovery. Consumer attitudes toward the economy also improved in January despite downbeat jobs data for the past two months. The share of consumers who believe the economy is on the right track climbed 8 percentage points to 39 percent, while the share who believe it’s on the wrong track declined to 54 percent. Additionally, the share who expect their personal financial situation to improve in the next year increased to 44 percent, continuing an upward trend since November 2013.  “A majority of consumers now believe that it is getting easier to get a mortgage. For the first time in the National Housing Survey’s three-and-a-half-year history, the share of respondents who said it is easy to get a mortgage surpassed the 50-percent mark, exceeding those who said it would be difficult by 7 percentage points,” said Doug Duncan, senior vice president and chief economist at Fannie Mae. “The gradual upward trend in this indicator during the last few months bodes well for the housing recovery and may be contributing to this month’s increase in consumers’ intention to buy rather than rent their next home. The dip in overall home price expectations, though notable, is consistent with our view of moderating home price gains this year from a robust pace last year, while positive trends in perceptions about the economy and personal finances over the next year support our view of stronger growth in the broader economy.” SURVEY HIGHLIGHTS Homeownership and Renting The Economy and Household Finances The most detailed consumer attitudinal survey of its kind, the Fannie Mae National Housing Survey polled 1,000 Americans via live telephone interview to assess their attitudes toward owning and renting a home, home and rental price changes, homeownership distress, the economy, household finances, and overall consumer confidence. Homeowners and renters are asked more than 100 questions used to track attitudinal shifts (findings are compared to the same survey conducted monthly beginning June 2010). Fannie Mae conducts this survey and shares monthly and quarterly results so that we may help industry partners and market participants target our collective efforts to stabilize the housing market in the near-term, and provide support in the future. For detailed findings from the January 2014 survey, as well as a podcast providing an audio synopsis of the survey results and technical notes on survey methodology and questions asked of respondents associated with each monthly indicator, please visit the Fannie Mae Monthly National Housing Survey page on fanniemae.com. Also available on the site are in-depth topic analyses, which provide a detailed assessment of combined data results from three monthly studies. The January 2014 Fannie Mae National Housing Survey was conducted between January 1, 2014 and January 21, 2014. Most of the data collection occurred during the first two weeks of this period. Interviews were conducted by Penn Schoen Berland, in coordination with Fannie Mae. FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesBillioniare investor Carl Icahn says that there's no reason to persist with his Apple buyback proposal, according to new letter. Icahn, who is one of Apple's biggest shareholders, has been pushing the company to unleash some of its massive cash hoard in the form of  a $50 billion stock buyback. Over the weekend, ISS told shareholders to vote against the buyback proposal. Icahn said this disappointed him. Still, it doesn't appear to be a total loss for Icahn. In his letter, he notes that Apple has already repurchased $14 billion worth of shares in the last two weeks and that the tech giant is on track to repurchase at least $32 billion in the fiscal year.  Here's the full letter: Dear Fellow Apple Shareholders, While we are disappointed that last night ISS recommended against our proposal, we do not altogether disagree with their assessment and recommendation in light of recent actions taken by the company to aggressively repurchase shares in the market. In their recommendation, ISS points out, and we agree, that “on the spectrum of options for allocating capital, the board appears to have been sluggish only in returning excess cash to shareholders,” and even though the company has in place “one of the largest buybacks in history” we agree with ISS that this effort seems “like bailing with a leaky bucket” when “given the scale of the company’s cash reserves.” That being said, we also agree with ISS’s observation, taking into account that the company recently repurchased in “two weeks alone” $14 billion worth in shares, that “for fiscal 2014, it appears on track to repurchase at least $32 billion in shares.” Our proposal, as ISS points out, “thus effectively only asks the board to spend another $18 billion on repurchases in the current year.” As Tim Cook describes them, these recent actions taken by the company to repurchase shares have been both “opportunistic” and “aggressive” and we are supportive. In light of these actions, and ISS’s recommendation, we see no reason to persist with our non-binding proposal, especially when the company is already so close to fulfilling our requested repurchase target. Furthermore, in light of Tim Cook’s confirmed plan to launch new products in new categories this year (in addition to an exciting product roadmap with respect to new products in existing categories), we are extremely excited about Apple’s future. Additionally, we are pleased that Tim and the board have exhibited the “opportunistic” and “aggressive” approach to share repurchases that we hoped to instill with our proposal. It is our expectation that Tim and the board continue to exhibit this behavior as fiduciaries to the shareholders since they clearly seem to agree that our company continues to be extremely undervalued, and we all share a common optimism with respect to the company’s bright long term future. Sincerely yours, Carl C. Icahn   FREE AppDownload
Mike Nudelman/Business InsiderBitcoin prices are down big this morning as MtGox, a major Bitcoin exchange, announced it was continuing to suspended withdrawals denominated in Bitcoin while it addressed a technical glitch. In its statement this morning, the exchange explained why it has been forced to do so. It said it had "detected unusual activity on its Bitcoin wallets and performed investigations during the past weeks. This confirmed the presence of transactions which need to be examined more closely." In doing so, they found that transactions from its wallets were subject to "malleability" errors. This made it possible for incorrect transaction data to be registered on Bitcoin's master transaction ledger, the Blockchain. In theory, this makes it possible for theft or double spending to occur — something Bitcoin was supposed to be designed to prevent. The exchange did not say whether either had in fact occurred.  MtGox goes on to say that the glitch is a flaw in the Bitcoin protocol itself, and that it had "discussed [incorporating a fix] with the Bitcoin core developers and will allow Bitcoin withdrawals again once it has been approved and standardized." But Bitcoin developers are disputing how severe that flaw is. In an IM chat with BI, Bitcoin developer Greg Maxwell, who correctly identified MtGox's hiccup on reddit before MtGox acknowledged the problem, says he and co-developer Pieter Wuille spoke with MtGox chief Mark Karpeles over the weekend. Maxwell says he "had no idea, and really still have no idea what they'd be waiting on us [Bitcoin developers] for." He added that they had discussed changing part of the Bitcoin protocol to address the issue, but that he was "not aware of any reason that MtGox's withdraws would need to be gated on that." BI reached out to Karpeles on the Internet Relay Chat, recommended by two Bitcoin experts as the best way to reach him, but did not receive a response. We also reached out to BitStamp, which is now the world's largest dollar-traded exchange, to see whether they were concerned at all by the malleability issue. CEO Nejc Kodric replied via email that they are not commenting on the situation. "We hope that MtGox solves their technical issues as soon as possible," he said. Maxwell said urgently addressing the issue is "neither necessary nor sufficient" for preventing theft in the case of cancellations or reissues, and that while Bitcoin wallet programs do not handle malleability well, it is not a serious issue. "Issues like this— ones where I basically consider them non-interesting issues— are the hardest to respond to. When there is a normal severe problem there is always a proposed plan of attack, workarounds, etc. In this case 'meh'.  I can see some people are very concerned about Bitcoin itself and not just MtGox. 'There really is nothing to worry about in this case' is not likely to help them feel better, but it's really the best and most ... correct advice I can give here." The chief scientist of the Bitcoin Foundation, on whose board MtGox's Karpeles sits, has released a statement saying they are aware of the malleability issue but that MtGox's problems seem confined to the exchange itself: "The issues that Mt. Gox has been experiencing are due to an unfortunate interaction between Mt. Gox's implementation of their highly customized wallet software, their customer support procedures, and their unpreparedness for transaction malleability, a technical detail that allows changes to the way transactions are identified." The average Bitcoin price as of 9 a.m. stands at $621. FREE AppDownload
pepe50 / FlickrAs Congress moves ever closer toward the deadline for raising the U.S.'s debt ceiling, there's no immediate end in sight.  Treasury Secretary Jack Lew said in a letter to congressional leaders last week that the nation's debt limit will need to be raised by Feb. 27, or the Treasury would begin to have trouble meeting all of its obligations on time. House Republicans are formulating their final plan on the debt limit, including the possibility of attaching a "doc fix" on Medicare reimbursement rates and re-instituting some military benefit cuts from last year's budget deal. But nothing is set in stone, House Republican aides said. The irony in this debt ceiling fight is that, unlike almost every other fiscal battle since 2011, House Republicans don't want a fight with President Barack Obama and congressional Democrats. Even the most raucous members of the caucus are urging leadership to avoid "theater." But House Republican leaders have still not decided on a final strategy, and it leaves no room for the trial-and-error approach that has accompanied the last few debt-ceiling fights. "We continue to believe there will not be a debt ceiling crisis; default is unthinkable," Greg Valliere, an analyst at Potomac Research, wrote on Monday. "Republicans are eager to pass a relatively clean bill, but the timing is about to get tricky." The biggest opponent for Congress now is time. The House is only in session for three days this week. The next full day the House is in session is Feb. 26 — the day before Lew's "drop-dead" date. Ultimately, how most observers see this playing out is with a relatively "clean" debt-ceiling increase, without policy strings attached. That's because even the fix in military pensions — which has broad bipartisan support — would contrast with some Republicans' position against voting to raise the debt ceiling. The way to resolve the impasse might be with a solution advocated by Rep. Raul Labrador (R-Idaho), who has proposed to put a "clean" bill on the floor and leave Democrats to pass the bill mostly on their own.  Still, the crunch for time has some analysts worried. "We agree with the conventional wisdom that congressional Republicans are looking for a way to fold, but that path forward remains hazy and it is still possible for them to drown in the glass of water they have poured — and cause economic havoc by failing to raise the debt ceiling in time," Chris Krueger, a D.C.-based analyst for Guggenheim Partners LLC, wrote Monday. FREE AppDownload
Screenshot from ABC's "Shark Tank"Last summer, viewership in CNBC's core demographic — the 25-54 year old crowd — disintegrated to a fresh 20-year low of 37,000. With riveting financial crisis plot lines like AIG bonuses and Lehman's collapse way in the rear view, people wondered whether business TV journalism had officially lost its relevancy. "Most of the financial sector's sharp edges have been sanded down, its eccentricities and peccadilloes ironed out by five years of regulation and magnifying-glass public scrutiny," wrote New York Magazine's Kevin Roose. Well, all it took was some re-runs! The New York Post's Andrea Morabito reports that CNBC's ratings have soared since the network started showing old seasons of "Shark Tank," where business owners pitch their products to investing "sharks" like Mark Cuban who then negotiate equity for cash. The show has gained in popularity since its first season for ABC in 2009, according to the Post, and now it's right in CNBC's sweet spot. From the Post: Airing Tuesdays from 8 p.m. to midnight, “Shark Tank” averaged 541,000 total viewers in January — more than any prime-time show on CNN that month, as several news reports gleefully pointed out. It also appeals to a young audience, drawing 276,000 viewers (three times CNBC’s year-ago average) in the key advertising demo of adults 25-54, making it the No. 6 show in all of cable news. As a result, a CNBC programming exec told the Post that other reality-based shows in the vein of "Shark Tank" are "in the pipeline or in production or pre-production." Read the full report at the New York Post » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ben NelmsChinese consumer sentiment was "buoyant" during the 2014 Lunar New Year Holiday, according to Jian Chang at Barclays. National retail sales and catering grew 13.3% year over year in the first week of the new year which began January 31, according to the ministry of Commerce.  This was below the 14.7% YoY reading in the Lunar New Year Golden Week holiday in 2013, but Bank of America's Ting Lu doesn't think this reflects a slowdown in consumption growth. "In 2014 the LNY Golden Week started from the first day of LNY, while in 2013 it spanned from the Lunar Year Eve," Ting writes. "Since regardless if it’s holiday or not, people make big purchases and dine out on the Lunar Year Eve, the new LNY holiday schedule could have a material impact on yoy reading in LNY holiday spending." Online shopping, catering, tourism, and entertainment all saw strong demand. The crackdown on corruption saw luxury gifts like expensive alcoholic beverages, cigarettes and rare seafood fall sharply. In Fuzhou city, sales of high-end alcoholic drinks fell 70% on the year, seafood gift sets fell 50%.  "A similar picture of low-end and high-end differentiation can also be found in the catering business," Ting writes. "For instance, mass market restaurants in Anhui, Liaoning, Hubei and Hunan provinces saw a revenue growth of 20%, while high-end restaurants in Helongjiang province recorded a 20% drop in revenue." We also saw a jump in tourism. Tourism revenue was up 16.4% YoY, and overseas group trips climbed to 4.73 million during the golden week, up 18.1% on the year. "The holiday spending data support our view that growth in China will be relatively stable despite a new round of worries on hard landing," writes Ting. This chart from Barclays shows a rise in retail sales growth this Lunar New Year: Barclays FREE AppDownload
With the prospect of monetary policy normalization in the U.S., the dollar is expected to strengthen and interest rates are expected to rise. In recent weeks, this concern has fanned volatility in the emerging markets where many economies rely heavily on external financing to fuel growth. Indeed, higher rates and weaker local currencies mean financing costs will quickly get much more onerous. Of course, some emerging market economies are more vulnerable than others. For instance, Morgan Stanley has dubbed the weakest group as the "Fragile Five": India, Indonesia, Turkey, Brazil, and South Africa. Generally speaking, economists have looked at two measures to assess these economies' exposure to normalizing U.S. monetary policy. Societe GeneraleFirst is current account balances as a percentage of GDP. "Countries with large current account deficits (such as Turkey, South Africa, Indonesia, India and Brazil) have been particularly hard hit by currency depreciation," said Societe Generale's Patrick Legland. "With their economies slowing, several large EM countries must now address growing structural imbalances just when they are facing tighter financial conditions. In January 2014, the World Bank thus warned that in developing markets “...growth prospects remain vulnerable to headwinds from rising global interest rates and potential volatility in capital flows”. With the Fed taper, a new dilemma has appeared for India’s, Turkey’s and Brazil’s central banks, as local currency depreciation add to domestic inflationary pressures at a time of slowing growth momentum." Societe GeneraleSecond is foreign reserves as a percentage of GDP. "Overall, since the crisis of the late 1990s, emerging markets have on average achieved greater exchange rate flexibility and financial integration (capital account openness) while retaining some monetary independence," said Legland. "EMs with larger stocks of international reserves compared to their short-term debt have become more resilient to external shocks. Foreign reserves have become a hedging tool to monitor the currency, both against unwanted appreciation or depreciation of the currency." None of these problems developed overnight. And they won't be fixed overnight either. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Joshua RobertsFederal Reserve chairwoman Janet Yellen.The biggest unknown in the world of monetary policy today is the amount of slack in the U.S. labor market. Unemployment has been plummeting over the past few years as workers have exited the labor force, but inflation remains persistently low nonetheless, giving rise to the notion that there is more slack in the labor market than the drop in the unemployment rate suggests. The answer to the question of which indicator — unemployment or inflation — is correct about the health of the labor market is key to unlocking the Federal Reserve's next big monetary policy shift, and the mixed signals they are sending at the moment have sparked a heated debate. Goldman Sachs economists Sven Jari Stehn and Jan Hatzius propose a simpler approach: the Fed should focus on wage growth as a primary input into the "reaction function" that dictates its response to changing economic conditions. Why focus more on wage growth instead of inflation, or even the unemployment rate itself? Ultimately, wages will respond to tightening labor market conditions, whereas consumer price inflation may not. "Low inflation should be indicative of the size of the employment gap," write Stehn and Hatzius in a report. "This approach, however, relies on a tight link between slack and price inflation. And the experience of the last couple of years suggests that price inflation is not very responsive to the employment gap at low levels of inflation and seems to fluctuate quite randomly when we are in the neighborhood of price stability. The behavior of core PCE inflation between 2011 and 2013 is a good example: core inflation rose by a full percentage point during 2011 and then dropped by the same amount in 2013, without any compelling macroeconomic explanation." Department of Commerce, Department of Labor, Goldman Sachs Global Investment ResearchIn fact, wage growth has been rebounding over the past year, even as consumer price inflation has slowed, as the chart shows, and in the past, the former measure has offered a better reflection of the state of the labor market. "Wage inflation was low in the early 1990s, early 2000s, and the period since 2008, when the economy really had a lot of slack; and it was high in the late 1990s and mid-2005, when the economy was at or beyond full employment," say the Goldman economists. In the report, Stehn and Hatzius devise a model to test whether an increased focus on wage inflation would lead to better Fed policy outcomes. Their findings: the wage growth focus could help the Fed steer clear of policy mistakes in the future. "While such a policy is not perfect — because the wage inflation process, too, is subject to uncertainty — the error band around the paths for the funds rate and unemployment rate is lowered significantly and more so than in the case of increased focus on price inflation," they write.  "The intuition is simple: because the wage inflation process is more stable than the price inflation process in our estimated model, the former provides a better cross check of labor market slack and thus there is a stronger case for Fed officials to focus on it." Janet Yellen will make her first public appearance as Fed chairwoman on Tuesday in a congressional testimony. Most expect her remarks to be carefully in keeping with the Fed's January statement detailing its latest decision on monetary policy. However, down the road, an increased focus on wage growth could become a hallmark of the Yellen Fed. "Although we do not think that the recent weakness in the data — and in nominal wage growth — is sufficient for a pause in the QE tapering process, we expect Yellen to indicate that more and broader labor market improvement is needed before the FOMC will consider an increase in short-term interest rates," say Stehn and Hatzius. "And our analysis suggests that one of the key markers for this is a faster pace of nominal wage growth." FREE AppDownload
Negativity bias is the tendency to emphasize and recall negative events relative to positive events.  That is, fear of bad events plays a much more substantial role in our thought processes than positive events.  This bias was discussed in some detail in a 2001 study in the Review of General Psychology in a study titled “Bad is Stronger than Good”.  It’s a natural evolutionary bias – we fear that which can harm us.  And when it comes to financial markets and economics we tend to see this bias in spades.  Just look at the last 5 years of economic recovery during which negativity seems to have swept over the economic outlook with alarming regularity.  But how bad has this recovery really been relative to past recoveries? If we look at some of the broader indicators we can get a better grasp of the overall picture here.  For instance, if we look at real GDP the data looks pretty weak, but not exactly a nightmare: Pragmatic CapitalismWhat about industrial production?  The 2009 recovery actually ranks up there with the past three recoveries.  In fact, it looks extremely strong: Pragmatic CapitalismWhat about private sector employment?  The 2009 recovery is middle of the road (bear in mind that almost all of the employment weakness in the last 5 years has been the result of government job cuts as I discussed here):  Pragmatic Capitalism This doesn’t tell the most amazing story in the world.  It’s all certainly consistent with the “muddle through” theme I’ve been working with for the last 3-4 years.  But it’s also not the nightmare that the mainstream media and doom and gloomers sometimes imply.   In fact, there’s a fair amount of good stuff that’s gone on in the last 5 years.  And one can only imagine how much better things might have been had the policy response not been so underwhelming and misguided at times.  But I digress. The point is, it’s a good thing that we often focus on the negatives in our world.  That makes us more likely to make improvements, resolve problems and avoid the same problems in the future.  But when we analyze the current state of affairs we have to also avoid falling victim to our negativity bias.  An excessive focus on the negatives in our financial markets will generally lead one to fall into the trap of believing that things are actually much worse than they really are.  And that can lead to very bad decisions.  Instead, it’s better to understand this bias and try to analyze the economy and the financial markets with a more balanced and pragmatic perspective.  That will help you understand the problems we face without falling into the trap of focusing so much on the negatives that you wind up thinking that the end of the world is always around the corner. FREE AppDownload
APDave Lutz of Stifel Nicolaus passes along what he's chattering about this morning. Good Morning! US Futures are weaker this AM, with the S&amp;P off 40bp. While the stronger Yen is a factor - 2 market headwinds this week is Yellen speaking before Congress Tuesday and Thurs (uncertainty) and the Retail Sales Print for January due Thursday (Bad Weather) ahead of a 3day weekend in the States. We also have some overnight weakness in EM, with Ukraine and Hungary’s FX under pressure. The DAX just turned negative, while EU’s Financials are off 1.2% ahead of a Noon Trichet speech in Athens. Volumes in the EU are pacing very light, with Germany trading 40% below the 20day average – EU’s VIX is up 2%, but has lost 20% over the last 5 sessions. The Nikkei gained almost 2%, but the Yen gapped higher at 2amET after a BOJ Corporate Bond Buying Operation – Nikkei futures are off 1% right now. China’s market ripped higher on headlines showing strong spending over their New Years Holiday – and Electric carmakers jumped as China’s finance ministry cut subsidies by a smaller amount than previously announced, and extended incentives through 2015. Aussie gained 1.5% on the back of the Miners. Single Stock movers in the USA include YELP +5% (YHOO partnership) and QCOM – 4% (China Antitrust Investigation).The 10YY is off small, and testing Friday’s afternoon low of 2.66%. We have a ton of supply at 11:30 - Auction of $42B 3month, $42B 6month, $50B Cash Management Bills (Key to watch as we approach the Debt Ceiling). The € is slightly stronger, but hit sharp resistance at the 50dma against the $. With the strength of the Yen, however, the DXY is basically flat on the session. We have a bid under Industrial metals on the China headlines, with Silver jumping 1.2% and copper slightly higher. Gold has added 75bp, breaking upside of the 100dma and hitting the highest levels since early November (Record Chinese Consumption). The Oil complex is under slight pressure, with WTI retreating 40bp to test the 200dma, on headlines of increased Libya output ahead of OPEC’s monthly report later this week. Economic Data is thin today, the main catalysts I see include a NY Fed survey of consumer expectations around 10am (approx.), a $2.25-2.75B POMO at 11, Trichet speaking at Noon in Athens, and World Agricultural Supply &amp; Demand Estimates at 12 as well. Major Events this week include ----&gt; Multiple FOMC Speakers all week, including Yellen speaking to House Tuesday, Senate Thursday // NO POMO on 2 days this week // China PPI, CPI // Eurozone GDP, IP and German CPI // Advance Retail Sales for January // Monthly Budget Statement on Wednesday key for Debt Ceiling // 13Fs are due from the Funds by Friday // Moody’s will update ratings on Italy Friday // Liquidity will diminish into US 3 day weekend FREE AppDownload
This is one of the main reasons why employment gains have been subpar during the current economic expansion. Friday’s employment report for January, which included benchmark revisions, didn’t alter this picture. There are lots of numbers in this report and, once again, they were all over the place with some surprisingly strong and others surprisingly weak. Once again, I cut through all the noise by calculating our YRI Earned Income Proxy, which is simply aggregate hours worked times average hourly earnings in the private sector. It is highly correlated with both wages and salaries in the private sector and retail sales. It rose 0.3% during January to yet another new record high. In addition, there are five employment measures that we monitor to keep us confused. They certainly did their job in January: Payroll employment (up 113,000), private payrolls (142,000), household employment (638,000), household measure comparable to payroll measure (901,000!), and the ADP measure of private payrolls (175,000). Our assessment is that the labor market continues to improve at a subpar pace. Private payrolls are finally back, matching the record high during January 2008. And knowledge workers are putting knowledge workers out of work too. Payroll employment in all information industries peaked at a record 3.7 million during March 2001. It dropped to 2.7 million during mid-2010, and has remained around that level since then. Dr. Ed's BlogToday's Morning Briefing: Man vs. Machine. (1) Virtuous cycles now and then. (2) Golden Ages. (3) Professor Gordon is pessimistic. (4) “The Second Machine Age” is here. (5) Bounty vs. spread. (6) Machines replacing routine workers. (7) The job of knowledge workers is to eliminate jobs. (8) Productivity outpacing real wages and employment. (9) Do it yourself. (10) YRI Earned Income Proxy at record high. (11) Yellen’s testimony. (12) Stock picking is making a comeback. (13) “Alone at Sea” (+). (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Ed BiermanApple has invested in the production of a new type of smartphone screen that is harder and more resistant to scratches, according to a report. Its new sapphire crystal production plant is expected to be up and running by the end of the month, but what has a precious gemstone got to do with smartphone and tablet computer screens? Sapphire is a super-hard form of optically transparent crystal that looks and behaves like glass or diamond. Sapphire takes many forms, one of which is a gemstone. It comes in various colors including yellow, purple, orange, green and red. A red sapphire is known as a ruby, but the most recognised sapphire gemstone is of blue tint. It’s the impurities in sapphire gemstones that give crystals their colors. The sapphire crystal used for screens, however, is colorless because it is more pure, lacking any of the iron, titanium, chromium, copper or magnesium that makes mined gemstones unique. Sapphire gemstones are commonly mined like most other precious gems, but the sapphire crystal used in most non-jewelery applications is artificially manufactured. The first synthetic sapphire was created in 1902 by a French chemist called Auguste Verneuil. Since 1902 various methods of making sapphire have been developed, but generally they use high heat and pressure to turn aluminium oxide power into crystal. Most synthetic sapphire is used in industrial processes, but some colours of sapphire are useful for laser applications. Red ruby sapphires are used to create red and new-infrared lasers thanks to their relatively unique capacity to be turned to the appropriate wavelengths, thanks to their titanium or chromium impurities. Sapphire crystal is also used in protective windows, including bullet proof glass and the viewing windows for high pressure diagnostic and scientific equipment. The glass-like material covering supermarket barcode scanners is often sapphire crystal due to its scratch resistance. The most common consumer application for sapphire crystal is in the creation of extremely hard and scratch-resistant coverings for lenses or high-end watch faces. Rolex watches, for instance, have thick sapphire crystal watch faces, while the home button and TouchID sensor of Apple’s iPhone 5S is covered by a laser-cut sapphire crystal lens. Some very high-end smartphones currently use sapphire crystal screens. The handmade Vertu Ti, for instance, has a 3.7in crystal-covered screen, but sapphire crystal has historically been too expensive for mass produced smartphone screens. A recent report stated that Apple is actively looking at replacing its glass iPhone screens with sapphire crystal. According to data from the supply chain, Apple has acquired the machinery and facilities necessary to make display-sized crystal in enough volume to build into future iPhones. Compared to regular glass, sapphire crystal is significantly harder and therefore much more scratch resistant, an important factor for screens and other optically clear coverings like camera lenses. The hardness of a material is rated in Mohs, where talc is rated as 1 Mohs and diamond 10 Mohs. Glass ranks around 5.5 to 7 Mohs, but sapphire crystal has a hardness of 9 Mohs, making it only slightly less hard than diamond. The Mohs rating of Corning’s Gorilla Glass, which is the chemically hardened glass used to make many smartphone screens including those found on the Google Nexus 5 and Samsung Galaxy S4, has not been released, but it is expected to be around 7 Mohs. Regular steel has a hardness of around 4 Mohs, but hardened steel a hardness of around 8 Mohs. Anything made of a substance that is harder with a higher Mohs rating will scratch anything that is not as hard, meaning a sapphire screen could resist scratches from almost anything likely to be carried in a pocket. One of the reasons that sapphire crystal has not been used for smartphone screens has been its relatively high cost. Corning claims that Sapphire crystal screens would cost around 10 times as much as its Gorilla Glass. If Apple is serious about making iPhones with sapphire crystal screens it is unlikely to cost the consumer any more. The new iPhones with sapphire screens would likely be priced similarly to the current iPhone 5S. There are a couple of different manufacturers and glass-like products competing for the smartphone and tablet screen. The most well know is Corning and its Gorilla Glass, which is in its third iteration and is found on many smartphone screens including the Samsung Galaxy S4. The alkali-aluminosilicate glass combines impact resistance with increased scratch resistance, but is also strong allowing the screen to be very thin. Japan’s Asahi Glass Co has its own competitor called Dragontail, which has similar properties to Gorilla Glass and is found on the Sony Xperia Z1 as well as the Samsung Galaxy Nexus smartphones. Sapphire crystal is harder than both these two glass products, and therefore more resistant to scratching, but could be less resistant to impact and fracturing. In its currently available form, sapphire crystal cannot be created as thinly as glass and therefore leads to heavier screens. It is unknown whether Apple has developed a way to make thinner, stronger sapphire crystal screens. • Apple’s iWatch - what we’d like to see from an Apple smartwatch This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Romeo Ranoco Elementary school pupils use doormats as improvised protective headgears as they stay in a safe area during an earthquake drill in Paranaque city, metro Manila February 10, 2014.Good morning! Here's what you need to know. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jim BourgNew Federal Reserve Board Chairwoman Janet Yellen smiles as her husband, Nobel economics laureate George Akerlof (R), applauds her after she took the oath of office at the Federal Reserve Board in Washington, February 3, 2014.Economists, analysts, and investors have had a tough time digesting the disappointing U.S. economic data, which have all been touched by the unusually cold winter weather. The weather is expected to appear as a negative in this week's retail sales report, but as a positive in the industrial production report (Don't forget about heating utilities). While it'll be a relatively quiet week for economic data, it'll be a huge week for the Federal Reserve as new Chair Janet Yellen heads to Washington. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Story Economic Calendar Market Commentary In a note to clients on Friday, JP Morgan's Tom Lee reiterated his 2,075 year-end target for the S&amp;P 500. "For the past few weeks, we have written about how we believed that much of the weakness in equities YTD stemmed from “position squaring” by funds that were uncomfortably long (rather than markets anticipating impending weakness)," he wrote. "We now believe that hedge funds have de-risked sufficiently," he added. "This, coupled with the fact that mutual fund managers appear to be working with lower-than-typical beta, suggests that there is ample firepower to lift equities at the proper juncture." "What could go wrong?" Lee asked rhetorically. "The biggest risk, to our view, is that EM stress broadens to a banking crisis. Or that China, which remains a notable concern, sees widening stress on its shadow banking system. All of this would likely result in greater derisking and potentially push market to a deeper correction." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Toby MelvilleA logo hangs outside a branch of a Barclays bank in London April 30, 2010. LONDON (Reuters) - Barclays Plc &lt;BARC.L&gt; said its 2013 underlying earnings dropped by a quarter from the year before to 5.2 billion pounds ($8.5 billion), below expectations, which is likely to be due to a fall in investment bank earnings. The British bank will not report its results until Tuesday, but it released the headline number early on Monday. A preview in the Financial Times included numbers close to the figures released by Barclays. Other banks, including Deutsche Bank &lt;DBKGn.DE&gt;, have reported weak investment bank revenues for the final quarter of last year and Barclays' core fixed-income business is likely to be similarly hit, analysts said. Analysts are likely to focus on what Chief Executive Antony Jenkins plans to do to increase cost savings - which could include hundreds of job cuts - and shrink his investment bank. He is attempting to improve profitability, cut risk and reduce the bank's leverage. Jenkins is expected to increase cost savings targets beyond the 1.7 billion pounds in annual savings unveiled a year ago. The bank has cut about 400 jobs in its investment bank in the last two weeks and plans to cut a similar number in its corporate bank. Jenkins is expected to cut staff and branches in the coming years to improve efficiencies. After raising 6 billion pounds from shareholders in October, Barclays said it would cut the size of its balance sheet by 65-80 billion pounds and Jenkins is expected to increase that target. The Sunday Times said he could cut the balance sheet by 150 billion pounds. Jenkins is also due to set new targets on how staff conduct themselves as he tries to improve culture following a string of industry scandals. Barclays was expected to report adjusted profit before tax of 5.4 billion pounds, according to the average forecast from analysts polled by the bank. The only other number released on Monday was a statutory pretax profit of 2.9 billion for 2013. The bank had already said it would take a 330 million pound charge in the fourth quarter to cover litigation and regulation penalties. ($1 = 0.6100 British pounds) (Reporting by Steve Slater; Editing by Erica Billingham) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Adrees LatifAsia-Pacific airlines will need almost 13,000 new planes worth $1.9 trillion over the next two decades as rising wealth in the region fuels demand for air travel, Boeing said Monday. The US plane maker said on the eve of the Singapore Airshow that 12,820 extra aircraft would be needed by 2032, and the region would account for 36 percent of global deliveries of passenger and freight planes during the period. It also estimated the total Asia-Pacific airplane fleet would reach 14,750 in that time compared with 5,090 in 2012. Boeing's European rival Airbus had said last year that Asia-Pacific carriers would take delivery of 9,870 new passenger and cargo aircraft valued at $1.6 trillion over the next 20 years. Airbus will have its own press briefing at the Singapore Airshow on Tuesday, but on Monday it invited journalists to a display of its latest plane, the A350-XWB, which is expected to come into service later this year. "Over the next 20 years, nearly half of the world's air traffic growth will be driven by travel to, or from within, the region (Asia)," Boeing said in a statement. Randy Tinseth, Boeing's vice president for marketing, said: "New low-cost carriers and demand for intra-Asia travel have fuelled the substantial increase in single-aisle planes." Single-aisle planes such as Boeing's next-generation 737 and the 737 MAX will represent 69 percent of new airplanes in the region, the US aircraft maker said, driven by a rise in the number of budget carriers. Budget airlines from Indonesia, India, Thailand and Malaysia accounted for over half of global low-cost carrier seat capacity growth last year, according to a study by travel technology company Amadeus. Demand for travel in the region is soaring thanks to a fast-growing middle class in emerging economies such as China and India along with Southeast Asian countries. Over the next 20 years, Boeing expects Asia-Pacific gross domestic product to grow 4.5 percent annually, much faster than the projected global average of 3.2 percent. Passenger traffic in the region is likely to expand by 6.3 percent annually in the same period and cargo at 5.8 percent, also faster than the global rates. Tinseth said the number of people worldwide who traveled by air exceeded three billion for the first time last year, and the figure was expected to approach 6.5 billion by 2032. The cargo business remains weak but is recovering, he said. "As the world economy improves, as trade improves, we expect that market to continue to strengthen," he said. Tony Tyler, director-general of the International Air Transport Association, said Sunday that the profit margins of the world's top airlines are being eroded by the struggling air cargo business. Tinseth however said that airlines this year are expected to report better profits than in 2013 thanks to stable fuel prices and robust passenger traffic growth. Boeing and Airbus are among the key participants at the Singapore Airshow, Asia's top aerospace and defence exhibition. Both commercial and military manufacturers use the event to boost sales in the region, where defence spending is also on the rise at a time of festering territorial disputes. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
BitcoinWisdom Bitcoin just completely fell out of bed. The chart above, via BitcoinWisdom, shows the move. The news comes as major trading exchange Mt. Gox says in a new press release that bitcoin withdrawals remain halted. (On Friday, Mt. Gox issued a statement that amid the volume of withdrawals it was seeing, that it was suspending withdrawals until it could address a technical issue). Mt. Gox was at one point the foremost bitcoin market site, though its volume and share of bitcoin activity has declined considerably. Withdrawals in actual currency are working, so traders can get cash out of the site, which is good news. The bad news is that in addition to the direct matter of users not being able to withdraw bitcoins, they say the technical issue that they're dealing with is something that pertains to the broader Bitcoin community: The problem we have identified is not limited to MtGox, and affects all transactions where Bitcoins are being sent to a third party. We believe that the changes required for addressing this issue will be positive over the long term for the whole community. As a result we took the necessary action of suspending bitcoin withdrawals until this technical issue has been resolved. The letter is long, but here's the conclusion: To put things in perspective, it's important to remember that Bitcoin is a very new technology and still very much in its early stages. What MtGox and the Bitcoin community have experienced in the past year has been an incredible and exciting challenge, and there is still much to do to further improve. MtGox will resume bitcoin withdrawals to outside wallets once the issue outlined above has been properly addressed in a manner that will best serve our customers. More information on the status of this issue will be released as soon as possible. We thank you for taking the time to read this, and especially for your patience. And here's the full letter: Dear MtGox Customers and Bitcoiners, As you are aware, the MtGox team has been working hard to address an issue with the way that bitcoin withdrawals are processed. By "bitcoin withdrawal" we are referring to transactions from a MtGox bitcoin wallet to an external bitcoin address. Bitcoin transactions to any MtGox bitcoin address, and currency withdrawals (Yen, Euro, etc) are not affected by this issue. The problem we have identified is not limited to MtGox, and affects all transactions where Bitcoins are being sent to a third party. We believe that the changes required for addressing this issue will be positive over the long term for the whole community. As a result we took the necessary action of suspending bitcoin withdrawals until this technical issue has been resolved. Addressing Transaction MalleabilityMtGox has detected unusual activity on its Bitcoin wallets and performed investigations during the past weeks. This confirmed the presence of transactions which need to be examined more closely. Non-technical Explanation: A bug in the bitcoin software makes it possible for someone to use the Bitcoin network to alter transaction details to make it seem like a sending of bitcoins to a bitcoin wallet did not occur when in fact it did occur. Since the transaction appears as if it has not proceeded correctly, the bitcoins may be resent. MtGox is working with the Bitcoin core development team and others to mitigate this issue. Technical Explanation:Bitcoin transactions are subject to a design issue that has been largely ignored, while known to at least a part of the Bitcoin core developers and mentioned on the BitcoinTalk forums. This defect, known as "transaction malleability" makes it possible for a third party to alter the hash of any freshly issued transaction without invalidating the signature, hence resulting in a similar transaction under a different hash. Of course only one of the two transactions can be validated. However, if the party who altered the transaction is fast enough, for example with a direct connection to different mining pools, or has even a small amount of mining power, it can easily cause the transaction hash alteration to be committed to the blockchain. The bitcoin api "sendtoaddress" broadly used to send bitcoins to a given bitcoin address will return a transaction hash as a way to track the transaction's insertion in the blockchain.Most wallet and exchange services will keep a record of this said hash in order to be able to respond to users should they inquire about their transaction. It is likely that these services will assume the transaction was not sent if it doesn't appear in the blockchain with the original hash and have currently no means to recognize the alternative transactions as theirs in an efficient way. This means that an individual could request bitcoins from an exchange or wallet service, alter the resulting transaction's hash before inclusion in the blockchain, then contact the issuing service while claiming the transaction did not proceed. If the alteration fails, the user can simply send the bitcoins back and try again until successful. We believe this can be addressed by using a different hash for transaction tracking purposes. While the network will continue to use the current hash for the purpose of inclusion in each block's Merkle Tree, the new hash's purpose will be to track a given transaction and can be computed and indexed by hashing the exact signed string via SHA256 (in the same way transactions are currently hashed). This new transaction hash will allow signing parties to keep track of any transaction they have signed and can easily be computed, even for past transactions. We have discussed this solution with the Bitcoin core developers and will allow Bitcoin withdrawals again once it has been approved and standardized. In the meantime, exchanges and wallet services - and any service sending coins directly to third parties - should be extremely careful with anyone claiming their transaction did not go through. Note that this will also affect any other crypto-currency using the same transaction scheme as Bitcoin. Conclusion: To put things in perspective, it's important to remember that Bitcoin is a very new technology and still very much in its early stages. What MtGox and the Bitcoin community have experienced in the past year has been an incredible and exciting challenge, and there is still much to do to further improve. MtGox will resume bitcoin withdrawals to outside wallets once the issue outlined above has been properly addressed in a manner that will best serve our customers. More information on the status of this issue will be released as soon as possible. We thank you for taking the time to read this, and especially for your patience. Best Regards,MtGox Team FREE AppDownload
ToyotaThousands of families across Australia will be rethinking their futures after Toyota’s decision today to shut its plants, dramatically bringing an end to the nation’s once-burgeoning car-making industry. While the affected 2,500 employees of the company will be grappling with the thought of how they will be paying their bills and mortgage repayments in a couple of years’ time, there are tens of thousands more who will be worried about being caught in the flow-on effects of the plant closures. The companies that supply parts and other goods to the Toyota plant operations will start to see their orders dry up – some sooner rather than later. Some estimates put the potential impact of this at around 40,000 jobs. One expert pegs it at a more catastrophic 100,000. Unions are warning of a recession on the south-eastern seaboard over the coming years. When Holden announced it was pulling out in December the government started work on putting together a $100 million support package (including $20 million from the company) to help its 2,900 workers with retraining and finding new employment. But the Toyota decision, because of its effect on suppliers, is likely to require a more far-reaching government response. And as federal Treasurer Joe Hockey has been saying for months, there’s no money in the bankfor grand new spending projects. Opposition Leader Bill Shorten has been quick to saddle the Coalition with responsibility for the closure. “The car industry has died under the Abbott government,” Shorten said. “It’s a disgrace,” he said. The announcement has been sudden but there has been a growing sense of impending doom building around the Australian car industry for some time. In April last year, former Ford president Jac Nasser declared the death of the industry “inevitable”. Both Holden and Toyota blamed the high dollar and high manufacturing costs in Australia for theirdecision to quit. The government can’t have helped Toyota’s enthusiasm with Hockey’s declaration that the AMWU was “at war” with the company. But car-making has been an increasingly uncompetitive industry for a long time now and regardless of who or what blame is assigned, it would be sensible for everyone to acknowledge up front that the fate of the car industry is in a large part due to factors far beyond the control of Australian political leaders, of any stripe. (See: These 10 Charts On The Australian Car Industry Show Why Holden Was Doomed) Since taking office last year the Coalition has been largely doing what it said it would do on the economy – reviewing spending and paving the way for some austere cuts in its first budget in May. But the test for any government is not just in delivering against their mandate but also in how they respond to the challenges that arise in office. The economic equation for Australia with the end of the mining investment boom has been clear: other parts of the economy like construction and manufacturing have to pick up steam quickly in order to ensure continued growth. Against this backdrop, the Toyota decision is a crushing setback. After years of Labor failing to deliver budget surpluses the Coalition has made a habit of crowing about their track record and positioning themselves as the better economic managers. The circumstances in which they now find themselves present a stern test of that claimed credibility. Follow Business Insider Australia on Facebook and Twitter This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Stefan Wermuth Pedestrian walk past houses in London October 7, 2013.Demand for London's most expensive homes reached a new peak in January, with one third of properties in the costliest neighborhoods being snapped up within two weeks of going on sale, according to an estate agency. Marsh &amp; Parsons said there were now 23 buyers for every property on the market in prime London neighbourhoods, compared with 14 in January 2013. The average cost of a home in the most expensive areas such as Chelsea and Kensington had increased by 10% to £1.2m – £500,000 more than at the lowest point of the downturn in early summer 2009. The agency said that almost half of prime sales last month were fetching at least the asking price. In "outer prime" neighbourhoods like Fulham in west London, and the south London districts of Barnes and Clapham, prices rose by 15%. Those areas, dubbed "nappy valley" for their popularity with young families, now have average asking prices in excess of £1m.while two-bedroom homes typically cost more than £670,000 – almost £100,000 more than in 2012. Halifax reported a 1.1% rise in UK house prices in January, as demand increased against a backdrop of rising confidence and improved mortgage availability. It put the average cost of a home at £175,546 – almost £2,000 higher than at the end of 2013. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Keith BedfordJamie Dimon, chairman and chief executive of JP Morgan Chase and Co, speaks at the 2012 Simon Graduate School of Business' New York City Conference in New York May 3, 2012.(Reuters) - China's top insurance regulator directly asked JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co &lt;JPM.N&gt; CEO Jamie Dimon to hire a family friend as a "favor", The New York Times reported, citing a confidential email. The latest media report comes even as Wall Street's practice of hiring family and friends of China's ruling elite continues to attract the attention of regulators. U.S. authorities have been looking into the hiring practices of several banks and hedge funds, focusing on those related to well-connected foreign officials with the intent of securing business. Dimon met the applicant, described by The New York Times as "a young woman", in June 2012. At that meeting in New York, the applicant acted as an interpreter for the Chinese insurance regulator Xiang Junbo, according to the report. At the time of that meeting, JPMorgan was seeking lucrative work from Chinese insurance companies, the newspaper said. However, it said the timing of the applicant's internship at the bank may have had no connection to JPMorgan's business with the Chinese insurance industry, some of which the bank secured before the meeting. The applicant played no role in those deals, the paper said. JPMorgan told The New York Times that Dimon had nothing to do with the decision to hire the young woman, who was described within the bank as well qualified. "Our CEO played no role in the hiring decision, did not weigh in, and did not follow up," JPMorgan spokesman Joseph Evangelisti said in a statement to the newspaper. "It is his normal practice to pass on referrals without advice to those involved in hiring." The New York Times did not identify the applicant. Neither Dimon nor the applicant are suspected of any wrongdoing, the newspaper said, citing a person briefed on the investigation. JPMorgan, the biggest U.S. bank by assets, has been conducting an internal investigation examining the employment of around 200 people for instances of possible illegal nepotism. JPMorgan could not immediately be reached for comment on Monday. Officials at the China Insurance Regulatory Commission did not respond to a request for comment. (Repeats to remove extraneous initials from headline) (Reporting by Chris Peters and Sakthi Prasad in Bangalore; Editing by Ian Geoghegan) FREE AppDownload
Japan's current account surplus shrank by nearly a third to a record low in 2013 as a weak yen bloated the country's post-Fukushima energy bills, official data showed Monday. Japan logged a surplus of 3.31 trillion yen ($32 billion) on its current account, the smallest on comparable data stretching back to 1985, according to the finance ministry. The current account is the broadest measure of the country's trade with the rest of the world, including not only trade in goods but also services, tourism and returns on the country's foreign investment. In December alone Japan posted a current account deficit of 638.6 billion yen, a record for a monthly shortfall. Japan has been saddled with a growing trade imbalance stoked by its heavy dependence on importing pricey fossil fuels to generate electricity with nuclear reactors shut down in response to the 2011 tsunami-sparked atomic disaster. The yen's sharp depreciation since late 2012 has pushed up import costs. Japan's trade deficit more than doubled to 10.6 trillion yen in 2013 from the previous year as costlier imports of oil and gas overwhelmed export growth. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
In this latest round of Emerging Market selling (like all downturns) there's probably a lot of throwing the baby out with the bathwater. In a new report, Deutsche Bank's Jun Ma argues that China is in a much better position than Argentina or Turkey. And yet, the report notes, China's market has taken a beating on a similar order of magnitude with them. Deutsche Bank As for what makes China different, the 5 reasons are: First, compared with other emerging market currencies, China’s RMB has been the most stable in the past weeks, and it will likely remain stable in 2014. Second, macro fundamentals are much stronger in China than in many other EM countries. Thirdly, China’s political situation has become more stable since the change of leadership in 2013, partly due to the success of the anti-corruption program, while other EM countries, such as Thailand, Turkey, South Africa, India and Brazil, are now either experiencing serious political challenges and/or facing very uncertain election outcomes. Fourth, China is implementing the most aggressive structural reforms in decades, while this determination is not seen in most other EMs due to political stalemate. Fifth, China’s financial risks are being addressed by reforms. So there you go. FREE AppDownload
If you hear the phrase "sick man" and "Europe" in a sentence, then you probably expect to hear "France" mentioned very soon. But increasingly that honor ought to be awarded to Italy. In December, Industrial Production plunged 0.9% vs. expectations of no change. Via Fast FT, here's a chart of shriveling Industrial Production. Istat This is far from the only number that's been bad. According to Markit, both the Italian Service and Retail sectors are in contraction (Manufacturing is doing better). So when will the ECB act? Italian industrial output down 0.9% Dec, France down 0.3%, both worse than expected. Recovery very fragile. Monetary Policy too tight FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg"In the coming week, earnings slow down (although some major companies report) and the economic data is decidedly “B” status save for retail sales. The focus, unfortunately, will be on Janet Yellen’s Tuesday testimony to the House. If retail sales (for January) come in healthy and if Yellen delivers supportive testimony, then perhaps the decline we’ve seen is indeed “it” for now." That's from BTIG's Dan Greenhaus (@danBTIG) and it's the perfect preview of the week ahead. All eyes on Yellen. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Issei KatoGood morning! The week has begun, and US futures are lower. It's not a dramatic move, just a slight toe-tip into the red following gains late last week. Meanwhile, Japan continues to a recover a bit after its rough patch, with the Nikkei gaining 1.7%. Shanghai also gained 2% last night. European stocks aren't doing much of anything. There isn't going to be tons of data this week as the big story will be Janet Yellen's Humphrey-Hawkins testimony before Congress.  FREE AppDownload
