The global market sell-off continues. And the emerging market continues to take the worst of it. For some context, Oppenheimer's John Stoltzfus offers this chart of emerging market currency moves relative to the U.S. dollar from a year ago. When it comes to currency, stability is key. But these horrific devaluations in such a short period of time is a nightmare for countries that have lots of overseas debts and imports to finance. Unfortunately, as the Federal Reserve makes steps to normalize monetary policy, currency experts only expect things to get worse for these markets as the U.S. dollar is forecasted to get stronger. "Emerging market currencies are facing headwinds from tepid global growth and the process of tapering QE by the Fed stateside," said Stoltzus. Oppenheimer
REUTERS/Les StoneOne of the most bullish long-term economic stories in the U.S. is the shale energy boom. Thanks to advanced drilling technology like hydraulic fracturing (aka fracking), American energy producers have been able to tap insane amounts of hard-to-reach fossil fuels in North Dakota, Pennsylvania, and Texas. That's great. But if the U.S. is producing so much energy, then why are our winter heating costs exploding? Natural gas prices are at their highest levels since 2010. In one word: infrastructure. We just don't have the pipelines (yet) to get energy from the new sources to the end users as the weather gets chilly. Here's Goldman Sachs' Samantha Dart: The recent $120/mmBtu spike in gas prices in New York underscores the ongoing bottleneck issues that plague some of the high gas consuming areas in the country. The system’s inability to deliver enough natural gas to where consumers are, especially given that the fastest-growing shale gas play in the US, the Marcellus, is nearby, raises the issues of what it takes to solve such bottlenecks and where and how such rapidly growing production can be allocated, as producers have faced some bottlenecks of their own. Specifically, Marcellus production growth reached almost 4 Bcf/d in 2013, with this increased supply having had a direct, negative impact on the regional basis (for producers), while consumer prices (city gates) have benefitted little if at all from the surging levels of production. Fortunately for us consumers, there are a lot of pipeline projects in the works. Dart identified five major pipelines that'll come online between April 2014 and March 2016. These things don't happen overnight. But when they happen, we can look forward to more stable and cheap energy costs. FREE AppDownload
It can't be reiterated enough that the stock market and the economy are not that same thing. For one thing, the S&amp;P 500 represent corporations that are big enough to access the very liquid global capital markets to finance their operations.  Nearly half of the sales from these companies are generated overseas. The S&amp;P 500 largely excludes the mom-and-pop businesses that don't exactly have million-dollar marketing power. But this is not to say that there is no relationship between stocks and the economy. This chart comes to us from RBC Capital's Jonathan Golub. "Historically, a 1% change in nominal GDP has resulted in a 2.6% change in S&amp;P 500 revenues," he wrote. We wouldn't bet on that correlation remaining static.  Regardless, it's interesting to see that while the direction of growth may be similar, the magnitudes are very different. So, for the thousandth time, the stock market and the economy are not the same thing. RBC Capital FREE AppDownload
Peter D'AmatoChris Bartlett, Jenn Goldson, Stacey Mankoff and Ricardo RojasA couple years ago, Chris Bartlett— a partner at buyside quant shop/high frequency firm Nobilis Capital—started hosting parties to bring the quant community together.  These semi-annual parties are still a tradition on Wall Street, but now they're focusing on charity. Bartlett recently co-founded Quants Give Back, which is a volunteer organization of quantitative practitioners who get together to network and help various charities. "If you're a quant, you spend all of your time in front of a computer. This organization gives people a chance to enjoy themselves, meet their peers and help raise money for a good charity," Bartlett told us. Quants are the super-brainy people who write programs for the automated algorithmic trading systems that have taken over the Wall Street trading landscape in the last ten years.   On a daily basis, they spend hours upon hours in front of computer screens delving into some heavy math. It's actually pretty difficult to find opportunities to network with each other.  "My day is spent hours and hours in front of multiple computer screens. If I want to talk to a person who is like two desks down, I just IM him or Skype him from my computer. I don't leave my computer to go approach him because it's not efficient. It's not a good use of my time. Here, this is a chance to get out and meet your peers both on the buyside as well as on the sell-side."  Former quant Jennifer Goldson, who's now a vice president in buyside relations at Eurex, agreed.  "In my days as a quant, I sat behind a desk with two phones and eight computer screens towering over me. It's very hard to draw yourself out of that world. You're attached to the markets. You're attached to your phones. You're attached to your Excel spreadsheets and whatever else you're building quantitatively. That's all day, everyday."  Basically, that's why Bartlett started these networking opportunities for the quants.   For the inaugural charity event, Quants Give Back chose to raise funds for Homes For Our Troops. The money will go to help build a house for a disabled veteran in New York.    Business Insider checked out the event, which was sponsored by derivatives exchange Eurex. We've included photos of a few of the folks we met there.  FREE AppDownload
In recent weeks, we've seen a rout in emerging markets as investors have been pulling out of stocks, bonds, and currencies in these regions. Many EM countries rely heavily on external financing to balance their accounts. As the Federal Reserve tapers its quantitative easing program and makes steps towards tightening monetary policy, experts fear that capital flows could reverse as interest rates rise. This would cause massive strains in these regions. Some fear that an EM crisis this time around could be much worse for the world than past EM crises like the Asian financial crisis of the late 1990's. This concern is largely due to the amount of world economic activity attributable to the EMs. Wells Fargo's Jay Bryson offers these two charts illustrating the rapidly growing importance of these markets. First, the developing world's share of global GDP has climbed from 37% in 2000 to 50% in 2012: Wells Fargo Second, developed economy exports to developing economies has climbed from 20% in 2000 to 35% in 2012. Wells Fargo Bryson, actually, isn't overly concerned about a major crisis just yet. "We do not believe the recent volatility in emerging markets will lead to a collapse in economic growth in the developing world a` la 1997-1998 because the economic fundamentals in the developing world are generally not as weak as they were in the mid-1990s," he wrote. But if these fundamentals deteriorate significantly, we have ample reason to worry. FREE AppDownload
Markets are open in Asia, and they are deep in the red. Japan's Nikkei is down 2.9%. Korea's Kospi is down 1.4%. Australia's S&amp;P ASX is down 1.4%. This follows an ugly U.S. trading session where the Dow plunged 326 points (2.0%) and the Nasdaq fell 106 points (2.6%). In recent weeks, we've watched markets increasingly move in tandem in what's often described as "risk-on, risk-off." "When good news (risk on!) comes across the wire, market participants are buying risky assets (like stocks and emerging-market assets) and sell safe-haven assets (like government bonds and gold)," explained BI's Matthew Boesler. "Conversely, on bad headlines (risk off!), market players are dumping risky assets and piling into safe havens." On Tuesday, we learned that the ISM manufacturing index dropped to 51.3 in January from 56.5 in December. Economists were looking for a reading of 56.0. The new orders sub-index collapsed to 51.2 from 64.4. So, risk off. "We can say ignore today’s decline, it is due to inclement weather, but we really have to wait to see if the number bounces back after the weather warms back up in the next few months," said Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi's Chris Rupkey. "Manufacturing caught a cold this month, keeping our fingers crossed it is not the start of something more serious." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jason CohnFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. 4 Things Investors Should Remember After The January Sell-Off (Allianz Global Investors) Sunday marked Groundhog Day, when according to legend if a groundhog emerges from its burrow and sees its shadow only to go back in, winter will continue for another six weeks. "Perhaps Groundhog Day is an appropriate analogy for investors currently at a crossroads and looking for direction," writes Kristina Hooper, US investment strategist at Allianz Global Investors. After returning 30% in 2013, the S&amp;P 500 was down 4% in January. As investors plot their next moves, Hooper writes that they need to keep four things in mind.  1. Disregard the January Indicator, which suggests January stock performance predicts performance for the year. 2. Stop trying to time the market. 3. Save and invest in stocks. 4. "The Fed will likely highly accommodative with its overall monetary policy for longer, as it seeks to “stay behind the curve” and support the economy’s growth." Why Chinese Stocks Are Attractive Now (Charles Schwab)  The past four years has seen Chinese stocks underperform broader emerging markets. Despite slowing growth and concerns about a credit crisis, Michelle Gibley, director of international research at Schwab Center for Financial Research, thinks the reforms and current stock valuations make Chinese stocks attractive.  "Risk-tolerant investors should consider overweighting their holdings of Chinese stocks within their allocation to emerging market stocks. We're not suggesting you increase your overall allocation to emerging markets, though, as our view on that stock universe, as a whole, remains neutral. "But low valuations and depressed investor sentiment have created an opportunity in Chinese equities. And the government's dedicated and sweeping reform efforts could provide the impetus for a new phase of growth, even if there are bumps along the way. We think investors should consider buying mutual funds and exchange-traded funds (ETFs) that invest in large-cap Chinese stocks, which could benefit the most over the next year or so since they offer diversification benefits and have the most discounted valuations." This Beautiful Quilt Illustrates How Hard It Is To Pick Winners In The Commodities Market (U.S. Funds) 2013 was a terrible year for commodities with just natural gas, oil, palladium, and zinc posting year-over-year price gains. "The price movement of commodities is historically both seasonal and cyclical," according to the folks at U.S. Funds. "That’s why when investing in natural resources, we believe it is important for your portfolio to hold a diversified basket of commodities and to be actively managed by professionals who understand these specialized assets and the global trends impacting them." U.S. Global Investors A Third Of Advisors Plan To Leave Business In Next 10 Years (Investment News)  Over 33% percent of U.S. financial advisors plan to exit the business over the next decade, according to the Q1 issue of The Cerulli Edge. "The volume of assets that require a continuity plan coupled with the number of advisers that don't have a strong continuity or succession plan in place is scary," Michael Paley of Focus Financial Partners told Joyce Hanson at Investment News. Profit Margins Are Still Getting Fatter (Goldman Sachs) The stock market rallied on the back of high corporate profit margins, and some expect profit margin to reverse to their long-term mean. "The rolling four-quarter operating margin is tracking at 8.9%, a return to the previous peak reached in 3Q 2011," wrote Goldman Sachs' Amanda Sneider, who cited information coming from Q4 earnings announcements. "While the majority of operating margin expansion is due to the anniversary-ing of negative atypical operating items and pension-related gains this quarter, margin levels that exclude these items also returned to peak levels," added Sneider. "We expect margins to remain flat over 2014, although consensus expects further expansion to 9.5%." Goldman Sachs FREE AppDownload
APAmerica's biggest automakers whiffed in January, with vehicle sales falling to an annualized rate of 15.1 million from 15.3 million in December. Ford's sales dropped 7.5% and GM plunged 12%. Chrysler was the star of the month, with sales growing 8% (Wall Street was expecting 5.4%). Analysts are wondering whether this winter's bad weather proved a drag on auto sales. But either way, January was a big miss. Still, some cars were hotter than others. We rounded up the best-selling cars (more than 15,000 units) of the month.  FREE AppDownload
Things are done a little differently in "The City" — London's version of Wall Street on the other side of the Atlantic. For example, if a bank is hit with scandal after scandal over the course of a year, the CEO of the bank doesn't take home a fat check for his work. In fact, he gives up his bonus all-together. That's what Barclays CEO Antony Jenkins will do for the second year in a row, saying goodbye to a $4.4 million payout, the Daily Mail reports. You'll recall that Jenkins replaced Bob Diamond as CEO of Barclays in August 2012 after the bank was investigated for its involvement in rigging the benchmark Libor interest rate. Here's how Jenkins put it in his official statement: 2013 has been a year of considerable positive change for Barclays, and I am particularly proud of the progress we have made in starting to rebuild trust, in defining and implementing a common culture, in repositioning the business for the future, and in significantly improving our balance sheet. While all of these actions are in the long-term interests of our shareholders, I am aware of the very significant costs which have been required to address legacy litigation and conduct issues in 2013, as well as to exit assets and businesses we no longer wish to participate in. When combined with the substantial rights issue we completed in the autumn, I have concluded that it would not be right, in the circumstances, for me to accept a bonus for 2013, and I have therefore respectfully declined the one offered to me by the Board. Basically what Jenkins is saying is — "I can't take a bonus until we stop paying for our own nasty mistakes because I am accountable for those mistakes as CEO of this bank." The mistakes he's talking about range from penalties paid for manipulating the LIBOR interest rate to the $2.4 billion the bank has put aside for small businesses that were sold complex financial products. It's hard not to compare that to what we saw happen to JP Morgan CEO Jamie Dimon's compensation, which almost doubled from $11.5 million to $20 million despite the fact that the bank paid out over $20 billion in fines to regulators in 2013. The Brits, man, they're not like us. FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Carolyn ColesEveryone is guilty of a bad habit or two. But it's not your addiction to Candy Crush or your refusal to recycle grocery bags that worries us. It's the habits that damage your finances — from overspending to procrastinating about paying bills — that set off our alarms. In fact, we're so committed to helping you change your less-than-stellar money habits for the better that we're featuring a series of articles this month that specifically examine the science, psychology and strategies behind behavior change. And what better way to kick off the series than with a month-by-month guide to financial self-improvement for the whole year? That's why we asked six LearnVest Planning Services Certified Financial Plannersto pick 12 of the most common bad money habits that they see (one for each month of the year) — and then offer their expert advice for breaking them in 2014. If you live or work in a city (or your commute brings you past five different drive-thrus), buying lunch out can be irresistibly easy — and problematic if your habit starts absorbing the money you'd prefer to save for something else ... like a Caribbean vacation to escape the frigid cold this month. "There's nothing wrong with buying the occasional lunch or snack on the go," says Stephany Kirkpatrick, CFP, Director of Financial Planning at LearnVest Planning Services. "But when you're aiming to conquer major financial goals, this is one of the easiest areas to cut back without seriously sacrificing your quality of life." While an ideal habit would be to avoid last-minute food purchases altogether, that's not always realistic. "If it's too much of an adjustment to go cold turkey, create a budget in the LearnVest Money Center and decide beforehand how much you'll spend — and then challenge yourself to spend $10 less next month," recommends Kirkpatrick. "Be sure to allow yourself one day a week when you do grab lunch — and savor it, so bringing lunch the other days won't make you feel like you're missing out." How Much You Can Save: If your lunch-buying habits are anything like that of the typical American, you probably buy a lunch that costs around $10 twice a week, spending about $1,000 a year in the process. If you cut your habit back to one lunch per week, you could save around $500. Sure, paying your bills on time is a good habit — but paying more than you should is a bad one. Case in point? Astronomical cable bills for the 300-plus channels that you never have time to watch. And you're not alone: The average monthly American cable bill, including phone and Internet services, was $128 in 2011 — that's triple the price from 10 years ago. "Things fall into three buckets," explains Natalie Taylor, CFP with LearnVest Planning Services. "Things you can control, things you can influence, and things you can't control or influence. Monthly bills fall into the second bucket, so use your influence wisely." You can start by poking around your provider's website to see what kind of introductory and special rates they currently offer or visit lowermybills.com, which looks at your region and current bill to automatically search for better phone and Internet offers. Once you have an idea of what you could pay instead, call your provider to see if there's any wiggle room on your rate. How Much You Can Save: "Lowering your bills is a great way to find extra dollars for your goals without having to sacrifice your lifestyle," explains Taylor. If you can negotiate only $10 off your monthly bills, you'll save $120 a year. If you go a step further and cancel your cable to save $100 a month, that comes out to $1,200 a year. Put that cash into a retirement account and you could help grow your savings! All debt isn't equal. So while you should always pay the minimum on your various debts — be it student loans, credit cards or a mortgage — a more productive strategy is "racking and stacking." Essentially, you rank your debt in order of highest to lowest interest rates, and prioritize paying off the debt with the highest interest rate first by devoting any extra cash toward that debt. Once it's paid off, you move down the list to pay down the next high-interest debt. "Focusing on paying one debt off at a time (while making minimum payments on all other debts) can not only save you interest, but it can also give you additional cash-flow flexibility over time," explains Taylor. "As each debt is paid off, you have one less minimum payment to worry about every month. You may still decide to dedicate just as much each month toward debt reduction overall, but you've got more flexibility, which always feels good!" How Much You Can Save: If you're sitting on a $10,000 credit card balance with 12% interest, you're paying $100 in interest a month (and that's a pretty low interest rate). Since most lenders require that you pay at least your interest every month, you'll need to pay more than $100 a month in order for your balance to start decreasing. "With payments of $150 per month, it would take more than nine years to pay off the debt, costing about $6,500 in interest," says Taylor. "With payments of $400 per month, it would take only two and a half years to pay off the card, and cost $1,600 in interest." A 401(k) is an employer-sponsored retirement account, and some companies actually give you money just for using it, which is known as a "match." "Now that the days of pensions are long gone for most employees, it's necessary that people save for their own retirement," says David Blaylock, CFP with LearnVest Planning Services. "Fortunately, many employers offer a matching contribution to a retirement account — once you contribute from your paycheck each pay period, your employer matches it. This contribution can have a huge impact on the amount you can accumulate for retirement." There's no equivalent offered via an individual account, like an IRA or a Roth IRA, so if you aren't contributing to a matched 401(k), you're essentially declining free money. Changing this habit is simple: If your employer offers a match, start contributing to your 401(k) — even if it's just the bare minimum required to get the match. How Much You Can Save: While every company's matching policy is different, let's assume that your employer matches every dollar that you contribute up to 3% of your annual salary. If you make $60,000 per year, not contributing to your 401(k) costs you $1,800 per year in matching contributions. Over 30 years, at a 7% rate of return, that $1,800 per year comes out to a total of $170,000! While there's nothing wrong with responsible credit card use, if you can't pay your entire bill on time (also known as carrying a balance), you'll get penalized in the form of interest, which just adds to your debt. "Getting out of credit card debt can be one of the most challenging financial things to do," says Blaylock. "If you have several cards that carry balances, choose the one with the highest rate and attack that balance with every extra dollar you can find, using the 'rack and stack' principle, while paying the minimums on other cards." And if you have good credit, look into lower-interest card offers that can reduce your rate temporarily when you transfer your balance — but remember to take into account any balance transfer fees before deciding to switch. Feel that getting out of credit card debt is impossible? Blaylock recommends reaching out to the National Foundation for Credit Counseling, which can help you create a debt management plan. How Much You Can Save: The average household carries a credit card balance of over $7,000. In December 2013, interest rates were about 15% for the average credit card account. Carrying that average balance, at that average rate for one year, will cost you $1,133 in interest charges. There's a reason why it costs a fortune to visit the South of France in July — everyone wants to vacation there in the summer. But you can cut down on those peak season costs by planning a trip during a region's "shoulder season," or the months that fall just before and after peak visiting time. Another alternative: Go somewhere similar, but more affordable — like these budget-friendly alternatives for a number of iconic getaways. "You can compare different locations if you know what general kind of trip you want, like a 'nice beach vacation,' " says Katie Brewer, CFP with LearnVest Planning Services. She also recommends setting a budget for your trip ahead of time, and saving toward it monthly, "so you have the funds to actually pay for the vacation." And she suggests using travel aggregator sites, such as Kayak and Orbitz, to compare the best day, week and month to travel to the given destination. How Much You Can Save: Of course, your individual figure depends on a combination of the destination (Brewer herself saved $1,500 by taking an anniversary trip to Costa Rica instead of a pricier Caribbean island), airfare and lodging. Let's revisit our South of France example: By traveling in May instead of June, you can save more than $50 per night at an upscale hotel in Nice, France. For seven nights, that's an immediate savings of $350. Many of us are in the habit of paying outside bills and obligations first, and then relegating any leftover cash to savings, whether it's for an emergency fund, a wedding, a down payment on a home or a trip abroad. What we probably fail to take into account is that saving money should also be an obligation — to ourselves. If we don't prioritize it, all too often it doesn't get done. The fix here is a simple habit that only requires periodic action: "Pay yourself first" by setting up an automatic contribution straight from your paycheck into your savings account, either through a direct deposit coordinated through your employer or an automatic transfer from your checking account. You won't miss the money you don't see, and you may be inspired to tweak your budget to accommodate those savings. "It may take some adjustment at first," says Brewer, "but you'll feel great when you see that account increase every month with minimal effort." How Much You Can Save: The great thing about paying yourself first is that the potential for saving is just about limitless. If, for instance, your goal is to save $10,000 for a wedding over the course of two years, you'll need to automate about $417 per month. So you'll set up your automatic transfer for that base amount, and if you get a raise or your living costs go down and you rebalance your budget, you can increase your savings amount. We're all probably guilty of this potentially budget-tanking habit: A coworker tells you about this amazing new book that he's reading, so you pop online and download it to your Kindle. The next day, your cousin emails you about a movie recommendation, so you order it from Amazon. Sound familiar? "I've seen a number of clients who unknowingly spend hundreds of dollars a month on digital media — everything from iTunes to Amazon books and movies," says Brandie Farnham, CFP with LearnVest Planning Services. "I recommend creating a separate folder in the LearnVest Money Center specifically for this spending to see just how quickly all of these little purchases add up ... and then rein it in!" So instead of buying the latest titles, look up free audio and digital books on Amazon, Books Should Be Free and Open Culture. If you still can't find what you need, Farnham recommends signing up for Scribd, a service for ebooks that's akin to Netflix. The price: $8.99 a month. As for movies, look into such free services as Crackle and YouTube (you can find a handful of free movies by filtering your search to show only videos over 20 minutes). Or consider joining Student, Mom or Amazon Prime to watch movies and TV episodes for free. If you aren't a big movie-watcher, most iTunes movies offer a limited-time streaming "rental" at a fraction of the purchase price of around $5. How Much You Can Save: Let's say that you're a modest reader and movie-watcher who downloads two films a month from iTunes and three books a month for your Kindle. At approximately $15 per movie and $10 per book, you're laying out $60 a month. If you were to sign up for Amazon Prime instead — which also allows you to read free books with your membership — for $6.50 a month, you'd save $641 over the course of a year. It's great that you're contributing to your retirement and savings accounts — but it's even better if you're automating those contributions. That said, you shouldn't simply "set and forget" your contributions. As you increase your goals (and hopefully your income), your savings should ramp up to accommodate those changes. "Incremental increases can have a huge impact on your future, without having a major impact on your budget today," explains Farnham. Luckily, this is another habit you can automate: Set a calendar reminder to increase your savings contributions by at least 1% of your income every six months. (Some retirement plans even allow you to automate the increase.) How Much You Can Save: If a person with 37 years to go until retirement increases her savings contribution by just an extra $50 each month, she could ultimately save another $105,000 (assuming a 7% annual growth rate) by the time she retires. Many of us tend to use dinners out as a way to catch up with friends whom we haven't seen in a long time — and even those who we see all of the time. Instead, why not meet up for drinks or coffee? Even better: Stick close to home. "If you're really just up for spending time with your friends, grab a bottle of wine, ask everyone to bring a dish, and host a movie marathon," suggests Ellen Derrick, CFP with LearnVest Planning Services. "It's about the company, not the overpriced appetizers!" How Much You Can Save: The average American spends about $2,500 a year dining out. Even if you switched from one $25 dinner a week to two $5 catch-up coffees per week, you could save over $700 a year. December comes at the same time every year, so why does it always seem to sneak up on us, leaving us scrambling for gifts and shelling out extra cash? Instead of drafting your gift list in early December, why not get into the habit of starting it in late December or early January for the following year? This way, you'll have 12 months to use discounts, wait for deals and generally avoid last-second splurging. Plus, a little advance planning can provide an added benefit — for your budget. "I've often encouraged clients to make a 12-month gift calendar," says Derrick. "By mapping out birthdays, anniversaries, special days and holidays, along with how much you typically spend on each person, you get a better sense of your yearly cost. Then divide that by 12. In the months when you don't have any gifts to buy, you can set that cash aside for the months that you go over your monthly budgeted amount." How Much You Can Save: The National Retail Federation predicted that the average American would spend more than $700 on gifts during the 2013 holiday season. If you happen to be one of these "average" spenders, and you accrue 25% worth of discounts on that $700 by using coupons, taking advantage of sales and loyalty programs and avoiding exorbitant charges for last-minute shipping, you'll save close to $200. Have you happily accepted a gift card only to let it expire in the deep recesses of a drawer? Join the club. "People tend to view gift cards and gift certificates as "I don't know what to get you" kind of gifts, but the fact is they're essentially cash," says Kirkpatrick. "Even if a card isn't for a place you frequent, you can use it to buy someone else a gift. Those ubiquitous Starbucks cards are perfect for treating coworkers or business contacts to coffee, and a restaurant gift certificate can finance a date night." So instead of throwing your gift cards in a drawer "for safe keeping," stick them in your wallet or your car's glove compartment for easy access when the opportunity arises. If you really won't have a chance to use it, regift the card or trade it for a card you might actually use at a site like Gift Card Granny. How Much You Can Save: Americans waste over $1 billion a year in unused gift cards. Every dollar you don't let expire is a buck saved. If you manage to redeem or regift just three $20 gift cards left over from the holidays, you've saved $60 right there.   FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsThere's no question that the world has become increasingly globalized as shipping costs have tumbled and trade restrictions have come down. But this doesn't necessarily mean that macroeconomic forces have a uniform effects on all of us. Morgan Stanley's Joachim Fels philosophizes on this a bit. He notes that the recent data out of the emerging markets and developed markets "illustrate the yin-yang character of the global economy and markets." From Fels: One prime example of the yin-yang global economy is that better growth in the US may actually be bad news for EM, for two reasons: to the extent that is driven by re-industrialization it harms the manufacturing platforms in EM; and to the extent it pushes up real interest rates, it harms those highly leveraged EM economies that have relied on capital inflows from DM for too long. But it also runs the other way: the turmoil in EM may be good news for DM consumers as it pressurizes commodity prices, makes other imports from EM cheaper due to DM currency appreciation, and may allow DM central banks to keep policy expansionary for longer due to (more) imported disinflation. So, what's bad for the emerging markets might actually be good for the developed ones. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsPocatello, IDCities in America are finally starting to return to health. In 2014, 351 metro areas will see job gains, according to a new report published by the Conference of Mayors and produced by IHS Global Insight. The U.S. economy is poised to accelerate in 2014, according to the report. "Consumers will increase discretionary spending in response to solid gains in employment, income, and asset values," IHS writes. "Homebuilding will surge until 2016, when it catches up with demand." Still, some cities were heading in the opposite direction last year. We pulled the cities from the report that saw GMP ("gross metro product") contract by 2% or more in 2013. FREE AppDownload
AP Few countries are as linked to the concept of the class system as the United Kingdom, and there's no greater symbol of class within the U.K. than the House of Lords. The Lords, as its referred to, is the upper house of Parliament in the British system. Originally composed only of hereditary peerage (the dukes, the marquesses, the earls, etc), it was once the most powerful part of parliament. Nowadays, however, the upper house wields far less power than the lower, and the hereditary members are slowly being phased out, replaced by Lords appointed by the Prime Minister or the House of Lords Appointments Commission, an independent body. There's even been talk of elections. Even so, the Lords is still a remarkably fussy place, as evidenced by a recent investigation into their taxpayer-subsidized restaurants published by the Independent. Using a Freedom of Information request, the British newspaper was able to obtain a "steady stream" of complaints about the restaurants being sent to Lord John Sewel, the Chairman of Committees. Notable excerpts include the Lord who complained that a 15-minute wait led him to lose “some of the finesse of the afternoon." Another said that when their dinner reservation was cancelled, he and his wife were at a loss for somewhere else to dine — because she was wearing a tiara. Of course, bad service is always annoying. But when you consider that the House of Lords' restaurants are said to cost the British taxpayer £60,000 ($100,000) a week, it seems a little ungrateful; a subsidized Sirloin steak goes for £16 in the House of Lords' Peers' Dining Room (not a bad price in London). FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
BHS via TruliaBillionaire hedge fund manager Marc Lasry purchased the famed penthouse at 55 Central Park West last week, the New York Times reported.  Lasry, who runs Avenue Capital, paid $33 million for the Upper West Side co-op. The listing price had been $35 million. The 55 Central Park West building is famous for its role in "Ghostbusters." We can expect that Lasry will have a great time decorating this place for Halloween. The Lasry townhouse on the Upper East Side is known for having some of Manhattan's spookiest Halloween decorations. FREE AppDownload
The S&amp;P 500 is now down just about 7% from its mid-January all-time high. We’re currently somewhere between what market-watchers would call a “dip” and a “correction”.  I’d like to walk you through what these terms actually mean and give you some context before you encounter the almost-guaranteed hysterics of the financial commentariat this evening. If you’ve been reading this blog for awhile, then you already know that I don’t play for any particular team – bulls or bears – I simply deal in the facts themselves and leave readers to formulate their own opinions.  - Josh ***  For argument’s sake, let’s say we’re headed for a real correction…what should we expect? Today I’ll limit my remarks to price action and not get started into a whole discussion about news, valuations, or anything else. A handy field guide to stock market corrections below (data via Dow Jones, Morningstar, Bloomberg): * Since the end of World War II (1945), there have been 27 corrections of 10% or more, versus only 12 full-blown bear markets (with losses of 20% +). * This equates to one correction roughly every 20 months, according to Dow Jones index maven John Prestbo, who points out that this average does not mean they’re evenly spaced out. 25% of these corrections over the last 66 years occurred during the 1970's (the Golden Age of Market Timers), another 20% occurred during the secular bear market of 2000-2010. * The average decline during these 27 episodes has been 13.3% and they’ve taken an average of 71 days to play out (just over three months). * From the beginning of the last secular bull market in 1982 through the 1987 crash, there was just one correction of 10% or more. Between the Crash of 1987 and the secular bull market’s peak in March 2000, there were just two corrections, according to Ed Yardeni. This means that secular bull markets can run for a long time without a lot of drama. * Since the stock market’s bottom in March of 2009, there have been only 3 corrections: In the spring of 2010 the S&amp;P 500 began a 69-day drop of roughly 16%. The widely referenced summer correction of 2011 lasted for about 154 days and almost became a bear market. The correction during the spring of 2012 set up one of the greatest rallies of all time, although it was barely a real correction, sporting a peak-to-trough drop of just 9.9% in just under 60 days. * The most recent correction took place in 2011, between the end of April into the end of September. The Dow dropped roughly 16%. The S&amp;P 500 actually dropped a hair over 20% before snapping back, leading some to believe that this was a bear market – the implication being that the current bull market is just 2 years old and not five years old (dating from March of 2009). I have no strong opinion on that debate. * Bull market rallies in between corrections – and there have been 58 in the post-war period – tend to run for an average of 221 trading days before being interrupted and gaining an average of 32%. By this standard, we are way overdue for a correction (but in fairness, we have been for awhile). * As to what we should do during corrections, I’d recommend maintaining a list of high-quality stocks you’ve been kicking yourself for missing out on and clearing the decks of any longs you don’t truly love. For those with time horizons longer than five years (most), the best thing to do is grit one’s teeth and do very little. If a correction of between 10 and 20% is unbearable to you mentally or financially, that means you’ve  either got more money than you should invested in stocks or you’re kind of a fairy. Make the adjustment you can live with and remember this feeling the next time you find yourself chasing the market. * As to the question of whether a correction could become a bear market (or worse even, a crash), the answer is that this is always possible. But most corrections do not become crashes, and every single one of themturned out to have been great buying opportunities in the fullness of time. * Lastly, remember your ABC’s: Always Be Cool. *** The above appeared here originally on August 20th 2013 and has been updated.  FREE AppDownload
Wonderlane/flickrApparently the latest fad is to do all your spending in cash. One of our contributors recently chronicled how debt-riddled 20- and 30-somethings turned around their lives by moving to a cash-only existence.  Plus, as The New York Times' Hilary Stout reports, many are also now contemplating switching to an all-cash diet after high-profile cyber thefts at major retailers like Target. But there lots of reasons why cash is bad, and we should be eager for everyone to stop using it. Here they are: #1 Cash is expensive Cash costs the economy $200 billion, according to Tufts professors Bhaskar Chakravorti and Benjamin Mazzotta. The study did not compare the relative costs of cash v. plastic (or other alternatives), but that is a fairly staggering number. For an individual, the losses mostly come in the form of fees and opportunity costs. For businesses it mostly comes in the form of theft. And for government this mostly comes in the form of lost tax revenue. Here's their breakdown: Fletcher/Tufts We'll dig more into these figures more closely as we go down.  On average, the Tufts researchers found, Americans waste 28 minutes a month traveling to an ATM, or 5.6 hours a year. Much of that time would likely have been spent on leisure. But at the mean wage, that means $31 billion lost annually. "...It is indicative of just how much time in the aggregate is spent managing currency," the Tufts professors write. Researchers from Wright Patterson Medical Center recently asked 68 shoppers at a grocery store to swap out dollar bills they were holding with clean ones. They got the following results: In 2011, British researchers compared the two and found, "the ATM machines were shown to be heavily contaminated with bacteria; to the same level as nearby public lavatories."  Yes, there's the hacking thing. But Tufts' Chakravorti told us that the odds of your specific account getting hacked remain negligible. On the other hand, he says, the more cash you carry, the greater the risk of losing or misplacing it. A 2012 University of Chicago study confirmed robberies were more concentrated around places that did most of their business in cash. Chakravorti points out there are limits on how much you can withdraw from an ATM. Plus the more money you're carrying, the more cumbersome it is to hold it. “You don’t want to be carrying a bag of money into Best Buy to buy a flat-screen TV," Susan Grant, the director of consumer protection at the Consumer Federation of America, told the Times' Stout. "People shouldn’t have to resort to that for peace of mind." If you love inconvenience, cash is your guy. Plus it is much easier to keep track of purchases by paying with credit cards, as you don't have to manage a bunch of paper receipts.  U.S. stores lose $40 billion dollars to cash theft. The cost of mitigating that above number runs to 0.46% of a business' average gross sales. Conservatively, the Tufts professors say, studies have shown the government loses $100 billion annually in foregone tax revenue from cash transactions. Credit cards can get you into debt. But they're also basically the only way you'll ever be able to get a loan in the first place. This is perhaps the most immediate benefit.  The Tufts researchers found that those without access to financial instruments pay on average about $3.66 more per month in fees than those who do have access, and are nearly four times as likely to face fees. African Americans are more than twice as likely, as measured by the logit coefficient (2.2) to pay for access to cash. "The costs of cash are disproportionately borne by poorer people who have less access to banking," Chakravorti told us. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Shannon StapletonYum! Brands just announced Q4 earnings of $0.86 per share on revenue of $4.18 billion. Analysts were looking for adjusted Q4 earnings of $0.79 per share, on revenue of $4.25 billion. The company reaffirmed guidance of at least 20% EPS growth in 2014. Fourth quarter comp sales were down 4% in China, and down 4% in India. Sales and profits in the China division were impacted by "the effects of the December 2012 poultry supply incident, as well as subsequent news of avian flu," according to the earnings release. Overall comp sales were down 2%, compared with expectations for a 1.6% rise. The stock was up as much as 6.4% after hours to $70.15. Yum derives a large part of its revenue from China, so investors watch for clues on the health of the Chinese consumer. Click here for the full release » FREE AppDownload
Herbalife had a big bounce at the end of the day with the stock surging in the final hour of trading to close up more than 7%.  Early this morning, the stock was up after Herbalife released two press releases relating to earnings and announcing a $1 billion convertible bond note offering.  Then, shares of Herbalife fell about 3% after Bill Ackman's hedge fund Pershing Square launched a new website this morning taking on the company's distributors that they believe use predatory business practices.  You can see in the chart below the stock rally and volume spike in the final hour of trading.  Yahoo! Finance  Herbalife, a multi-level marketing company that sells weight loss shakes and supplements, has been at the crosshairs of an epic hedge fund battle.  Bill Ackman, who runs Pershing Square, is short the stock.  He believes Herbalife operates as a "pyramid scheme" that hurts lower income individuals.  Other fund managers don't buy his argument, most notably Carl Icahn, who has amassed a huge stake in the company.  FREE AppDownload
Dear Ms Yellen:  Congratulations on both your appointment as well as becoming the first woman to head the Federal Reserve. This will potentially make you, at times, the most powerful and important person in the world.  We are more alike than one may assume on the surface. It’s not just that we both like economics, that we were both born at the vanguard of our respective generations (you the Boomers, me the Millennials), or that our fathers were men of science and mothers teachers. Being amongst the first of our generations grants us some perspective on what the mass of humanity which is poised to follow will do, how they may act, spend, and impact the economy. Both of us came of age in a decade of great economic turbulence, and a growing cynicism on the efficacy of public institutions.  Most importantly, you witnessed the largest and richest generation in history come of age, join the labour force, form households, and have children of their own. I am witnessing, at the least, the largest generation — that of your children — in history come of age. The reason I believe this to be significant is that the quantity of the population in this age group (let’s call them the young age cohort) is strongly correlated with inflation. When there is a surfeit of young, household­forming aged people, there has been proportionately heightened inflation.  We each lived through the deepest recession since the Great Depression at roughly the same age, with our slightly younger generational siblings (aged 20­24) suffering an unemployment rate above 16%. The cost to my generation from the past recession is already high. On top of very high unemployment, we have experienced delayed entry into the labour force, deferred forming our own households, and the development of all facets of our lives retarded by the economy running so far below potential. Fixing this output gap, I imagine, is the top priority of the Federal Reserve right now, and there is no doubt that we are making headway. The record 17.2% unemployment of the aforementioned aged 20­24 group has declined to 11.1%. I write you not only to congratulate you on your appointment, but also warn you of a coming inflation pressure, and petition you to raise the inflation target. No, I am not talking about the contentious unconventional policies the Fed adopted to combat the Great Financial Crisis. The Fed has demonstrated its capability and facility in managing them, and have evidenced their ability to wind them down as appropriate. Instead, I refer to a demographic argument that inflation is strongly related to the size of the young age cohort. Macrofuge12 month fractional change in CPI y/y (black), forecast based on population growth (orange) You acknowledged the Federal Reserve should not necessarily over­emphasize price stability over unemployment in 1995 by stating, “to me, a wise and humane policy is occasionally to let inflation rise even when inflation is running above target.” The scenario to which you directly referred were the oil supply shocks of the 70's, but inflation also ran well above 2% in the 80's – averaging 5.6%. Even after the supply shock ended and energy inflation’s impact on prices was over, inflation averaged 3.6% from 1983 through the end of 1989.  There are, I’m sure you will agree, many things you can attribute as factors to inflation. At its most basic level, inflation simply means that demand is advancing into a upwardly sloping supply curve. But that definition struggles to really pictorialize what that actually means. What seems to make the most sense to me is anchoring to the cycle of life which has been carried over for generations: we are born, we are children, we become educated young adults, we begin our careers, we leave the nest to form our own households, we have children of our own, we work to provide for our families, we work to save for our retirement, and we retire. Each of these steps represent a milestone in our lives, and to a great degree, the likeness of age we do each one of these things is contrasted with our parents. Thus, the demand for the goods and services at each of these milestones represent a demand which is more influenced by our aging than by price. That is to say, the prices of goods and services related to physical maturation is relatively inelastic. Macrofuge12 month change (k) of population aged 16-24 4:37 If much of demand grows by the schedule of maturing young adults, the same cannot so readily be said of supply. The role of demography in the corporate sector is largely contained within marketing departments, and far away from capital allocators who focus on much shorter­term objectives. Young adults find themselves with tougher prospects to break into the job market than any other age cohort. Their inexperience makes them initially less desirable hires (a firm would generally prefer to hire one worker at twice the productivity than two at half the productivity), and the business sector eventually suffers (like it does now) from a deficit of experienced peak­aged workers.  This forms the basis of our demographic trap. Real goods and services are supplied by the production of real capital and labour. The configuration of output — the planning, training of people, purchase of machines — operates at a lag to the decisions of executives, and executives are hesitant to new capital expenditures before they see new demand.  These are frictions which resolve themselves over time. Unless policy, or another force hitherto unevident, prevents it, these frictions will also eventually resolve for Millennials. The main question is how quickly, and at what cost.  The Federal Reserve explicitly does not take responsibility for inflation from supply shocks. I will argue that its tolerance of 5.6% inflation in the 80's indicates it implicitly distances itself from responsibility of demand shocks, too. Let us be candid and admit that there is a cost, both familial and more broadly societal to turn boys and girls into men and women. Even after they become young adults, taxpayers subsidize below market­ rate student loans and colleges, businesses take on entry­level workers and apprentices, and the young adults form households largely by buying or renting at below replacement prices in areas with existing mature infrastructure and services.  The relevance this holds to the Federal Reserve is in the societal cost borne through the surplus inflation attributable to a bulging generation’s maturation. Based on the historical relationship between inflation and the size of the young age cohort, a 2% inflation target is unrealistic and incongruent with the Millennial generation, the biggest in history, forming households. It is difficult to imagine the economy running anywhere but far below its potential output if inflation is forcibly repressed under 2% while Millennials form households.  Instead, an accommodative Federal Reserve will ultimately lower the average intensity and length of the elevated inflation by facilitating the creation of all the new real capital, housing stock and infrastructure required to serve the needs of the incoming generation. This real wealth will translate into greater future income, the ability to raise real interest rates, and less inflation because of the subsequent bending of the supply curve. In the same way you fight fire with fire, you can fight inflation with inflation – after all, as the saying goes, the cure for high prices is high prices. Since we have observed income gains to be sticky, the economic opportunity cost of suppressing this generation’s household formation could be optimistically measured in the trillions of dollars over our lifetimes. This is what makes you potentially the most important person in the world, most certainly in the country: your decisions impact the standard of living of your son’s generation so greatly both contemporarily through (de­)incentivizing and facilitating (or suppressing) real capital formation into the capital factors of aggregate supply — homebuilding, infrastructure investment, factory machinery — as well as the resultant national income that real capital will generate even after you are gone.  Ms Yellen – thus I entreat you to explore raising the inflation target to a level which is more consistent with the demographic cards dealt to you. For Chairman Bernanke, perhaps 2% was an appropriate target. It was not for Chairmen Volcker or even for much of Greenspan’s tenure, and probably is not for you.  Congratulations &amp; regards, Matthew Busigin.   FREE AppDownload
Massachusetts Senator Elizabeth Warren wants to solve two American problems with one solution — turn the country's increasingly empty post offices into simple retail banks for low-income citizens without bank accounts. In an op-ed in the Huffington Post, Warren writes that "about 68 million Americans — more than a quarter of all households — are underserved by the banking system. Collectively, these households spent about $89 billion in 2012 on interest and fees for non-bank financial services like payday loans and check cashing, which works out to an average of $2,412 per household."  That means poor Americans spend roughly 10% of their income on basic banking services, according to a recent report from the Office of the Inspector General. Meanwhile, we've got an entire infrastructure of post offices and postal employees who are seeing the number of letters and packages they deliver dwindle more and more by the day. The services Warren and the OIG are suggesting aren't complex — just check cashing, small international money transfers, small loans, reloadable prepaid cards, and bill paying. The OIG insists that the USPS wouldn't become a bank. In fact, it insists that these services would merely use the USPS's ubiquitous network to complement what banks do and go where banks can't go. Other countries have already done this, and the OIG says that if even 10% of what underserved Americans pay on interest and fees went to the USPS it would generate $8.9 billion in new revenue per year. Hey, if it works ... FREE AppDownload
aldenjewell / FlickrThe big automakers published their January auto sales stats today, and it was a flop. According to Wards Auto, U.S. vehicle sales tumbled to an  annualized rate of 15.14 million from 15.3 million in December. Analysts were looking for 15.7 million. "Cold weather was blamed for slow retail sales, especially in regions unaccustomed, or prepared for, the cold temperatures and heavy snows that fell across much of the country," said Wards' John Sousanis. Ford's sales fell by 7.5%. Analysts had estimated a 2.3% decline. GM missed expectations by an even wider margin. Sales fell 12% versus the 2.5% decline estimated. Chrysler, however, said sales climbed 8% during the month, which was stronger than the 5.4% estimated by analysts. "Anecdotal reports from the main dealers pointed to the possibility of a negative effect from bad weather," said Barclays' Peter Newland. "Given similar reports related to this morning’s ISM release we would advise caution before reading too much into signs of a possible slowdown in economic activity. The outcome of Friday’s employment report remains very uncertain on this basis too." Here's a tally: Wards Auto FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsIt was ugly today. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
U.S. stocks are sliding and yields are plummeting as Treasuries surge following the release of much worse than expected manufacturing survey data from the Institute of Supply Management. The headline index from the ISM report tumbled to 51.3 from December's 56.5 reading, indicative of a sharp slowdown in American manufacturing in January. The consensus Wall Street estimate called for a much smaller decline to 56.0. In the wake of the release, the S&amp;P 500 is trading 2.4% lower at 1740, while the yield on the 10-year Treasury note is 2.59%, 5 basis points below Friday's close. Gold is up 1.4%, trading at $1257 an ounce. The big news overnight and this morning has been the steady stream of purchasing managers index survey data releases from the world's largest economies. Growth in China's services sector is slowing, while growth in the eurozone's manufacturing sector is accelerating, and growth in America's manufacturing sector is slowing. The charts below show the action in various markets this morning. Across the top from left to right are the S&amp;P 500 index, the dollar-yen exchange rate, and the euro-dollar exchange rate. Across the bottom are gold futures, 10-year Treasury note futures, and the dollar-Turkish lira exchange rate. In recent weeks, economic data releases have been disappointing relative to Wall Street's consensus forecasts. A widely-followed measure of this — Citi's economic surprise index — has taken a sharp turn lower. ISM and others have cited unseasonably cold weather this winter as a reason for the spate of weakness. The big question now is whether things will turn around once it warms up outside. "Despite the wishes of many U.S. equity investors, the dominance of macro over micro news will persist, especially during the next week," warns Goldman Sachs chief U.S. equity strategist David Kostin. "We expect equity markets will focus on U.S. macroeconomic data and what it suggests about the trajectory of growth." Thinkorswim FREE AppDownload
As HP's stock rebounds back to the near-$30 mark, where it was trading before HP hired CEO Meg Whitman in 2011, Whitman got a nice raise in 2013. Her total compensation was up to $17.6 million, with $12.7 million of that in stock options and $4.4 million in stock awards. That's more than $2 million more over 2012, when her total compensation was $15.4 million. It was a nice chunk of money above the $16.4 million that HP had planned to pay her for 2013, too, it said. The extra income mostly came from her $3.97 million bonus, which was 132.3% of her target, HP said in documents filed with the SEC.  Her bonus was supposed to be $3 million in cash. But because HP's stock has rebounded, her stock grants wound up worth about $3.71 million more than planned, not leaving room in her compensation plan to give her the cash. So the board decided to "offset" the fact that her stock was worth more by paying her an additional $260,000 in cash. Whitman, a self-made billionaire, with a net worth about $1.9 billion, according to Forbes, has only taken $1 in salary since she joined the company in 2011. That will change in 2014, when she'll start to get a base salary of $1.5 million, as first spotted by Re/code's Arik Hesseldahl. Whitman is leading HP through a multiyear turnaround to find growth again. While 2013 was a better year than than 2012, she hasn't yet stopped the shrinkage. At the end of 2011 when Whitman took over, HP's revenues were $127.4 billion. At the end of 2012, they were $120.4 billion (down 5%), and in 2013 revenue was $112.3 billion, down 7%. Whitman at first promised that 2014 would be a year of meaningful growth, but, in October, pushed back her timetable. She's now saying that HP will stop shrinking in 2014. There's also been plenty of drama so far under her helm, including accusations of alleged accounting fraud at Autonomy, the $11 billion big-data software company that HP acquired shortly before Whitman was named CEO; a huge multiyear 34,000-job layoff; and a shakeup of the board that caused two board members to resign and one to step down as chairman. Still, HP needs her to stay the course, and confidence is slowly rising in her ability to do so, both from employees and the market. But we can't help compare Whitman's $260,000 bonus with IBM CEO Ginni Rometty's decision not to pay IBM senior execs their cash bonuses for 2013, thanks to IBM's shrinking revenues and profits. FREE AppDownload
Long time readers know that we’re not in the business of asking “why”. As market participants, knowing “why” never pays us a dime – never has, never will. The answer to the question “why” is for sell side fundamental analysts, economists and the media. They get paid to come up with reasons why. But remember none of them are direct market participants. They have other objectives: sell research, sell tv commercials, etc. And that’s great; that’s their business model. As market participants, people who actually buy and sell assets, our main focus is on what, when and for how long. Worrying about “why” is a waste of time for us, because as I mentioned earlier, that has never nor will it ever pay us a dime. For us, it’s all about risk/reward. Where can we allocate the most money where if we’re wrong we lose a little, but if we’re right we can make a lot? Coming into the year, the question of whether there was a good risk/reward in the S&amp;P500 was clear. The answer was No – see here here, here and here. It just wasn’t there and there wasn’t any reason to force it. Quite the opposite in fact; the risk/reward was and has been in favor of the bears. Here is the chart I’ve been looking at and sharing with you guys all year. It’s very simple. The peaks in prices since 2010 line up right to the highs and the 261.8% Fibonacci extension from the last correction in 2011 gave us the exact same price target.  So what’s wrong with the market this year? Nothing. This looks perfectly normal to me. And we probably have some more downside left. It looks like another 50-100 points in the S&amp;P500, and it all seems like typical market behavior. I would still be selling any rallies. All of these broken support levels 1810 and now 1770 should turn into some resistance on any rally attempts. This market is technically broken in the short-term. We no longer have a series of higher highs and higher lows. We now officially have a series of lower highs and lower lows, which is the definition of a downtrend.  At best I think the market goes sideways for a while. But in reality, we’re likely to see lower prices throughout the first quarter. And this is normal. Don’t blame GDP growth or earnings multiples or the economic data of the day that headline writers love using to justify daily market moves. This is a normal, conventional sell-off coming from very clear resistance levels. There’s nothing “wrong” with the market. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
2013 was a really terrible year for commodities, as flagging demand worldwide ate into prices. Just four major commodities - natural gas, oil, palladium and, barely, zinc saw year-over-year price gains, according to the "commodities quilt" below from U.S. Funds. Growth in the top performer, natgas, which climbed 33%, diverged 66% from the worst performer, corn, which fell 23%.  That may seem extreme, but it's been worse: in 2006, the disparity was almost 200 percent between winning nickel and losing natural gas.  It's also importants to recognize that annual returns for each commodity can be quite volatile. That's why the pattern of colors in the quilt is so chaotic. "The price movement of commodities is historically both seasonal and cyclical," wrote the folks at U.S. Funds. "That’s why when investing in natural resources, we believe it is important for your portfolio to hold a diversified basket of commodities and to be actively managed by professionals who understand these specialized assets and the global trends impacting them." U.S. Global Investors Here's a skitched-up version showing how volatile natgas and corn have been over the past few years: U.S. Global Investors
Reuters/Brendan McDermidMathew Martoma arrives with his wife Rosemary at the Manhattan Federal Courthouse in downtown Manhattan in New York, January 17, 2014.Question: “What happens after you’re kicked out of Harvard Law School for creating a phony transcript that inflates your grades?” Answer: “You get an MBA from Stanford…and you get rich.” Tragically, a real person, Mathew Martoma, lies at the center of that joke. He’s on trial for what the prosecution has called “the most lucrative insider trading scheme ever charged.” When ethics is just a word According to Bloomberg News, Martoma entered Harvard Law School in 1997 as Ajai Mathew Mariamdani Thomas. Born in Michigan and raised in Florida, he graduated from Duke University in 1995 with a degree in biomedicine, ethics, and public policy. Yes, ethics. For the next two years, he worked at the National Human Genome’s Office of Genome Ethics in Bethseda, where he wrote three medical-ethics papers. Then he enrolled at Harvard Law, where he was a semifinalist in the school’s annual moot court competition, editor of the Journal of Law and Technology, and co-founder of the Society of Law and Ethics. Yes, ethics, ethics, and more ethics. A bad turn At Harvard, Thomas received “excellent grades,” but apparently not sufficiently excellent for him to show his parents (or so he later told a Harvard panel investigating his misconduct). So he created a phony transcript: Civil Procedure went from B to A; Contracts from B+ to A; and Criminal Law from B to A. He didn’t change his grades in Torts (B+), Negotiation (A-), or Property (A). The fake transcript became the most important element in Thomas’ applications for a federal appellate court clerkship. A clerk for one of the judges thought something about the transcript seemed amiss and contacted Harvard’s registrar. The registrar confronted Thomas. According to the investigating panel’s subsequent report, Thomas told the registrar, “It was all a joke.” Appearing before the Harvard panel, he dropped the “joke” defense. Instead, the panel noted that “Mr. Thomas was apparently under extreme parental pressure to excel academically.” Thomas appealed the Harvard panel’s decision recommending his dismissal. According to the government’s motion in his current insider trading trial, he then fabricated a forensic report in support of his administrative appeal. The Harvard Law School faculty voted to expel him on September 17, 1999. A fresh start By 2001, Ajai Thomas had changed his name to Mathew Martoma and he was on his way to Stanford Business School. In 2003, he received an MBA and went to work for a Boston hedge fund. In 2006, he joined SAC Capital. According to the NY Times, in January 2009 Martoma received a $9.4 million dollar bonus for his prior year’s performance in SAC’s healthcare group. During 2008, he’d made trades in Wyeth and Elan stock that netted his employer a lot of money, but also led to his current legal difficulties. Bloomberg reports that SAC fired him in September 2010 because, as one SAC executive allegedly put it, he was a “one-trick pony” whose trades in 2009 and 2010 lost money. A federal jury will decide his fate. For your consideration Wholly apart from whether Martoma is guilty of insider trading, his story provides an opportunity to contemplate issues that transcend him personally. For example, when should adult children stop blaming parents for their own misbehavior? Relying on that excuse blocks introspection that leads to personal improvement. Likewise, did Martoma’s application to Stanford acknowledge his expulsion from Harvard? If so, how could Stanford have admitted him? If not, will Stanford rescind his MBA? The answers could have implications for the integrity of a world-class educational institution. Finally, what insight into institutional behavior does Martoma’s experience provide? Harvard Law School gave him due process in a lengthy administrative hearing, deliberated carefully, and expelled him. The need to preserve the institution’s long-term values guided its conduct. In contrast, SAC Capital apparently focused on short time horizons. A good year got Martoma big bucks; a bad year thereafter got him fired. When it comes to their temporal mindsets, most big law firms today look more like SAC Capital than Harvard Law School. Following the business world’s approach — maximizing short-term results — has produced stunning equity partner profits. But sometimes, current profits have come at the expense of long-term values that don’t lend themselves to a simple metric. Those values include collegiality, loyalty, mentoring, institutional stability, and even client value. So the next time someone says that the law is just another business, ask yourself if that’s a good thing. Consider whether some aspects of the law as a profession are worth preserving. And think about the unfortunate journey of Mathew Martoma. Steven J. Harper, a former partner at the law firm Kirkland &amp; Ellis LLP and an adjunct professor at Northwestern University, is the author, most recently, of "THE LAWYER BUBBLE - A Profession in Crisis." A version of this column was first published on Steven J. Harper's blog at thebellyofthebeast.wordpress.com and on The American Lawyer's Am Law Daily, http://www.americanlawyer.com/amlaw_daily.jsp FREE AppDownload
St. Louis FedThe unemployment rate (red line) has fallen since the recession, but the employment-to-population ratio (blue line) has gone nowhere. This is a bit of a bombshell: according to a new study by researchers at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, the employment-to-population ratio — a widely-touted measure of purported slack in the labor market — is a misleading indicator. The implications of such a conclusion are big for monetary policy. As the Fed winds down its quantitative easing program, the next major step is to begin hiking interest rates as the economy improves, the labor market heats up, and a combination of wage growth and consumer price inflation makes a comeback. In December 2012, the Federal Open Market Committee — the Fed's monetary policymaking body — said it would keep rates at zero at least until the unemployment rate hit 6.5%. In December 2013, the unemployment rate stood at 6.7%, and economists at some of the world's biggest investment banks — including those at Deutsche Bank, Morgan Stanley, and Société Générale — believe the release of the January jobs report on Friday will reveal the 6.5% unemployment rate Fed-watchers have been eyeing for over a year. Yet recently, as the unemployment rate has tumbled toward the 6.5% threshold, the FOMC has sought to downplay the significance of the unemployment rate for the rate-hike outlook in its communications, suggesting that it does not fully capture the slack in the labor market, given the large number of people who have dropped out of the labor force in the years since the recession. The FOMC — along with others who share this view that the unemployment rate is misleading — points to the employment-to-population ratio, which has been little changed in the wake of the recession, as a better measure of the slack in the labor market than the headline unemployment rate. But according to New York Fed researchers Samuel Kapon and Joseph Tracy, the unemployment-to-population ratio is actually the more misleading of the two indicators, and the labor market may be tighter than the FOMC believes. "The E/P ratio is a misleading indicator for the degree of the labor market recovery," say Kapon and Tracy. The key is to adjust the measure for demographics, in order to capture a massive structural economic force that is now coming into play: the retirement of the baby boomer generation of American workers. New York FedAdjusting for demographics suggests much less slack in the labor market than an unadjusted employment-to-population ratio."The normalized, demographically adjusted E/P ratio is a useful additional gauge of labor market conditions," write the researchers. "Adjusting for changing demographics has an important impact on the picture that emerges about the degree of the labor market recovery. The actual E/P ratio suggests that the labor market has made relatively no progress since the end of the recession in recovering from the 4.1 percentage point decline in this measure. In contrast, the gap between the demographically adjusted E/P ratio using our normalization and the actual E/P ratio is a much smaller 0.7 percentage points." Simply put, the employment-to-population ratio did fall sharply and has failed to recover since the recession. However, an estimate of where the employment-to-population ratio should be based on demographic trends shows that the picture is much better than the unadjusted figure suggests. If that is the case, the labor market may be tighter than the FOMC imagines — which means inflation and wage growth may be closer at hand than it currently forecasts — and the Committee could come under pressure to tighten monetary policy sooner than its current projections dictate. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsAll eyes are already on the January jobs report, which will be released this Friday. But Peter D'Antonio at Citi is warning that a slew of "special factors" make this particular employment report difficult to forecast. In other words, there's a higher probability that the report will beat or miss expectations by a wide margin. And either way, it might not matter since it won't reflect the core health of the labor market. Here are some of the special factors that D'Antonio identified: D'Antonio also thinks any gain in income will be offset by unemployment benefits. He expects the economy to add 180,000 jobs in January, and for the unemployment rate to stay at 6.7%. FREE AppDownload
Shares of Herbalife are now down about 3% after Bill Ackman's hedge fund Pershing Square launched a new website this morning. HerbalifePyramidScheme.com, which was unveiled today, focuses on some of the company's distributors and their recruiting practices that Pershing Square believes are deceptive. The new site specifically features ex-distributor Shawn Dahl, a former member of Herbalife's Chairman's Club.   From HerbalifePyramidScheme.com:  For many years, Shawn Dahl was one of Herbalife’s most successful distributors and was held out by the company as a paragon of success.  Dahl ran a lead generation business called Online Business Systems (“OBS”) that was responsible for recruiting huge numbers of new distributors, and they generated large profits for Herbalife as they sought to advance in the Herbalife scheme.  It was not until Pershing Square focused attention on Dahl and his deceptive recruiting practices that Herbalife cracked down on him. Although Dahl is no longer a member of the Herbalife Chairman’s Club, his story remains important for a number of reasons.  First, Dahl inflicted a great deal of harm on unwitting consumers with Herbalife’s knowledge and support, and the company cannot escape responsibility for its participating in his misdeeds.  Second, we believe that OBS is still selling leads to fledgling Herbalife distributors.  Third, Dahl’s rise to the top of the Herbalife pyramid was not, as Herbalife used to pretend, the result of hard work selling Herbalife products to consumers.  Instead, he inherited a lead generation business from his mother-in-law that had been outlawed by the Canadian government, and continued to run that business with nothing changed but the name. The new site also features a section for people to file a complaint. In late 2012, Ackman publicly declared that he's shorting more than 20 million shares of Herbalife with a price target of $0. Ackman believes the company operates as a "pyramid scheme" and that regulators will be induced to shut it down.  A number of fund managers, including Carl Icahn, have disagreed with Ackman by going long the stock.   The stock was up earlier this morning after Herbalife released two press releases relating to earnings and announcing a $1 billion convertible bond note offering. Here's a screenshot of the site:  herbalifepyramidscheme.com FREE AppDownload
Senators known for going after Wall Street got very specific about what they want from prospective Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen at a Senate banking hearing on Monday morning. The hearing was held ahead of Yellen's confirmation vote, and Senators used it as an opportunity to tell Yellen what they thought should be on the top of a Fed Chair's agenda. Senators David Vitter (R-LA), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), and Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) brought up two specific issues the Fed should take up with the financial services industry. During their time with Yellen, Vitter and Brown went after big banks' lower borrowing costs — a break they think is really a tax-payer subsidy that enables Too Big To Fail and socializes Wall Street's risk. When they were done, Warren told Yellen that it's time for the Fed to set up more rigorous protocol for policing Wall Street. First to Vitter and Brown. They've been talking about this issue for a while now, and the more work they do on it, the more specific the numbers become. “[I]t should come as no surprise that the Congressional Oversight Panel for TARP found that the six biggest Wall Street banks received a total of $1.27 trillion in government support, including accounting for 63 percent of the Fed’s average daily lending," Brown said in a hearing last month. During Monday's hearing, both Senators pressured Yellen to admit that that was true. This was the most they got out of her: "Most studies point to some subsidies that point to too big to fail," said Yellen. For a potential Fed Chair, that's pretty candid. Brown and Vitter are going after this issue harder now than ever before. The Government Accountability will release its second report on the matter today, and Vitter sounded confident that it would lend more support to the idea that Wall Street's business is dependent on the largess of the American tax payer. Not something you would ever hear Jamie Dimon advertising, of course. When Warren had her turn with Yellen her message was just as clear — she wants the Fed to be much more aggressive and organized about policing Wall Street. That means setting up a new protocols for how the Street is monitored within the Fed. "The the truth is... if regulators had done their job we wouldn't need QE," said Warren, addressing a concern voiced over and over made by fellow Senators worried about the Fed's 'sugar high' policy. "We need to make reining in the banks a top priority for the Board," she said. Warren cited an example of when the Board delegated the approval of a major settlement with mortgage lenders to staffers. She said that it shows that board members don't consider its supervisory role over Wall Street as important as its role as a policymaker. Warren wants meetings, she wants memos, she wants the Fed to come up with proactive ideas. Letting the supervisory role take a back seat, she argues, may have contributed to the financial crisis. She wants Yellen to come up with a new way to do handle this. Prepare to keep hearing these talking points as Yellen settles in to her job. FREE AppDownload
The U.S. $1 bill hasn't had a major redesign since 1929. Mark Anderson, a numismatic consultant for The Museum of American Finance, tells us about the meanings behind the symbols on the iconic note.  Produced by Justin Gmoser; Additional camera by Sara Silverstein  Follow BI Video: On Facebook     
Arianna SimpsonEditor's note: Thanks to Arianna Simpson for letting us run her piece on women and Bitcoin. You can follow her at @ariannasimpson and see her blog here.   The other night my good friend &amp; fellow cryptoenthusiast Ryan Shea suggested we head to a new Bitcoin meetup neither of us had been to before. I agreed to meet him there, and though the conversation was stimulating, much of the experience was pretty demeaning.   I walk in and a group of people are already sitting at a long table. I say hi and hover for a second, determining where to sit. Entirely uninvited, and before I even have a chance to react, one guy proceeds to grab me by the waist and pull me into an awkward, grope-y side hug next to him on the bench. To reiterate, I’ve never met this man in my life. I try giving him the benefit of the doubt and make some quip about his being a friendly sort, but it gets uncomfortable pretty quickly when he puts his hand on my leg and leaves it there until I squirm uncomfortably.  Unsurprisingly, this type of treatment wasn’t specially reserved for me. The person who actually suggested the event to Ryan was another young woman (the only other woman at the event), a VC who was in town from San Francisco and was interested in checking it out for the first time. The aforementioned groper knew Ryan vaguely from other Bitcoin events, and greeted their arrival with a warm “Oh, nice to see you! I see you brought your girlfriend this time.” When the two of them try to point out that a) they are not together and b) she was actually the one who had brought him, they are cut off with a swift “Sure, sure, I just wanted to see what the dynamic was between you two.” Apparently that’s code for “checking if you’re ok with my hitting on her,” as that’s exactly what he proceeds to do. The guy sitting on the other side of me turns and introduces himself. Turns out, he’s the organizer and leader of the meetup. He follows with a swift, “So, how did you find out about this?” I’m honestly not sure if he means the meet up group or Bitcoin in general, so I go with the latter and tell him I’ve been interested (ok, obsessed—my friend Sam Smith may or may not have nicknamed me Cryptoqueen) since around mid 2013, which is when I started buying some. He then starts to look at me like I’ve suddenly morphed into a unicorn. Literally: bulging eyes, mouth slightly agape, the whole nine yards. Apparently the expected response would have been that I was Ryan’s  friend/girlfriend/sister who had somehow accidentally ended up there. “Seriously? You mean you actually own bitcoins? You don’t look like someone who would even know about Bitcoin!” Err…thanks? It’s not a reaction I’m unfamiliar with (I usually get the same one when people hear I have a motorcycle-and no, it’s not a vespa) so I just smile it off and start explaining my interest in the international implications of widespread bitcoin adoption, especially in countries where currency manipulation by corrupt governments has caused rampant hyperinflation and a host of other economic woes. I conclude the thought, and he (again, staring like I’m some sort of extraterrestrial creature), goes, “Wow. Women don’t usually say that type of things”. I mean, what do you even respond to that? Undeterred, I try to sidestep it and go on with my argument, concluding that what I am describing is “much more effective and efficient” than the current system. “Well,” he says looking at me knowingly, “Women don’t usually think in terms of efficiency and effectiveness”.   A few minutes later he starts describing an app he is working on to someone else at the table. “You see, women don’t care about crypto currencies, so we don’t have to design for them”. When I tell him he’s wrong, he smartly replies, completely in earnest, “Oh ok cool, so if we start dating I can use the app with you!”  The irony here is that he actually meant these things as compliments. But what he was implying that the bar for women is so low that my entirely unremarkable comments put me lightyears ahead of the “average woman” (whatever that even means). Anyone who knows me will attest to the fact that I’m pretty thick skinned. My self esteem remained intact throughout the exchange; if anything, it made me more determined to learn. I was not even made to feel unwelcome; these fellows were clearly thrilled at the presence of two women at the event. The problem lies in the conditions under which our company was desired. We were not treated as peers or individuals who might be able to contribute intelligently to the discussion. We were ogled and clearly assumed to be someone’s girlfriend, or someone’s potential future girlfriend. Was either of us mistreated? Technically, no. But the conditions under which our presence was accepted were such that from the moment we entered the room, the other attendees’s preconceptions were at a distinct disadvantage. Perhaps this would be a good time to recall Warren Buffet’s comment that one of the reasons for his great success was that he was only competing with half of the population. We can view it as an opportunity. Being underestimated can be a surprisingly effective tool in the appropriate context, but perhaps that’s just me being overly optimistic. I know many women, many of whom are far smarter than I am, who would have felt seriously out of place there. Would they go back to the next meet up? I doubt it.  If the organizer of the meetup makes people feel so unwelcome, it sets the tone for the rest of the conversation. I’m not bringing these comments up because my feelings were hurt, and the last thing I need is sympathy. I’m also not concerned that one particular guy thinks women couldn’t possibly know about Bitcoin, or that another grabbed at me, but unfortunately this is representative of a larger trend. The current generation of hackathon organizers (largely led by the singular efforts of Dave Fontenot —hellllllyeah) is making a concerted effort to encourage the participation of women at their events, and while I’ve still gotten my share of off-color comments, the situation is gradually improving. Since Bitcoin is still so new, we have the rare opportunity to get onboard before the ship has sailed, becoming knowledgeable before a vast majority of people have ever even heard of it. Learning about it now, instead of trying to play catch-up as it often seems like we are in terms of women in STEM fields, programming, or traditional finance, will surely reap great benefits.  I think my experience at the meetup is worth sharing because Bitcoin lies at the heart of both finance and tech, two industries that carry tremendous weight and which have traditionally struggled to attract women. Given the events of the other night, this is hardly surprising. I am undeterred and if anything will be even more proactive about attending these events. In my mind, it’s a little preposterous that if I want to do so, however, I have to be ok with being felt up and indirectly insulted. If women fail to take an active interest in Bitcoin now, when it is still in its infancy and its potential is largely untapped, we will have yet another sector in which the gender is underrepresented and trailing. Bitcoin as a currency has the ability to revolutionize the banking and financial system, but the implication of Bitcoin as a protocol extend much further than that. I’ll write a post of my own on that soon, but in the meantime I recommend you check out Mark Andreessen’s excellent post on why Bitcoin matters.   Anyways ladies, ignore the naysayers and get out to those Bitcoin meetups! If you want to attend a meetup or chat crypto anytime, shoot me a line on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research"Evidence that macro is driving markets: Stock return correlation has been trending higher and has recently surged back to the average level of 2013."—Goldman Sachs chief U.S. equity strategist David Kostin.In recent weeks, we've seen the return of "risk-on, risk-off" (RO-RO) trading in the markets. What this means is that assets across a range of markets move up and down in unison, reacting to good or bad news together in lockstep. When good news (risk on!) comes across the wire, market participants are buying risky assets (like stocks and emerging-market assets) and sell safe-haven assets (like government bonds and gold). Conversely, on bad headlines (risk off!), market players are dumping risky assets and piling into safe havens. Correlations between assets have been rising, typical of a "RO-RO" trading environment in which investors' focus turns away from picking individual winners within an asset class and toward just being on the right side of broader market moves in general. "The irony of this week’s client discussions is that just when investors wanted to focus on micro data points, market activity swiveled decisively in the direction of macro news flow," says David Kostin, chief U.S. equity strategist at Goldman Sachs. "While 50% of the firms in the S&amp;P 500 have released 4Q results during the past few weeks, company-specific news has been overshadowed by developments in emerging economies and markets, which in turn affected developed equity markets." Kostin cites turmoil in emerging markets and the recent turn lower in the U.S. economic data relative to forecasts as major forces behind the return of RO-RO. "Despite the wishes of many U.S. equity investors, the dominance of macro over micro news will persist, especially during the next week," warns Kostin. "We expect equity markets will focus on U.S. macroeconomic data and what it suggests about the trajectory of growth." FREE AppDownload
Coffee prices are up 7.8% to $1.34 a pound today. A severe drought in Brazil this year has traders worried about supply constraints due to crop damage. Brazil's coffee largely comes from the south east — which includes Sao Paulo, Minas Gerais, and Parana. And it's this part of the country that has been hit some of the most severe weather. January was also the hottest month on record in parts of Brazil. Coffee prices are up about 21% this year. Here's a look at the run up in coffee prices in January: Fin Viz Here's a look at the cracked ground of Jaguary dam in Braganca Paulista, about 62 miles from Sao Paulo: REUTERS/Nacho Doce FREE AppDownload
Today's ISM manufacturing report was almost unbelievably disappointing. The headline index dropped to 51.3 in January from 56.5 in December. Economists were expecting 56.0. Many of the companies surveyed by the ISM blamed poor weather. But why were economists so far off with their estimates? For one thing, many of these economists model their numbers off of the regional surveys. This brings us to this colorful chart from Bloomberg LP chief economist Michael McDonough. It's of the progression of the national and various regional manufacturing survey indexes. McDonough notes that the ISM index — the national index — is the closest to breakeven. This is in contrast to the regional surveys, which are much farther away.   @M_McDonough Sure, the methodologies and samples for these surveys may vary. Still, it's weird to see the parts (the colored lines) doing better than the whole (the black line). "It's hard to believe that weather was the whole or even most of the story, but it's not clear what else triggered the suddenly much slower growth these results point to," said Morgan Stanley's Ted Wiesman. "Domestic demand growth saw some moderation late last year, but that followed very strong growth through most of the second half, and the report didn't indicate respondents were seeing a worse outlook for domestic activity. EM strains are certainly a risk for the export-oriented manufacturing sector, but the export orders index hasn't weakened too much so far. It fell from a multi-year high of 59.5 in November to 55.0 in December and 54.5 in January, so some slowing in export growth is indicated, but that's still well above last year's low of 51.0 in May or a run of sub- 50 readings during the global trade weakening in 2012. We'll see in coming months if Bradley Holcomb, who oversees the survey for ISM, ends up being right in predicting that the January ISM results would end up just being a "blip." FREE AppDownload
Joshua Lott/Getty ImagesHousehold spending rose in the fourth quarter at the fastest pace in three years, and yet dozens of retailers have recently reported declining sales and planned store closures.  So where's the disconnect? The retailers that are struggling are those serving the middle class, including Sears, JCPenney and Macy's. Meanwhile, top-tier retailers, as well as many discounters, are enjoying a robust recovery.  A statistic published Sunday by The New York Times puts this trend into perspective.  According to The Times' data, since 2009, inflation-adjusted spending by the top 5% of earners in the U.S. has risen 17%, compared with just 1% among the bottom 95% of earners. "As politicians and pundits in Washington continue to spar over whether economic inequality is in fact deepening, in corporate America there really is no debate at all," The Times' Nelson D. Schwartz wrote of the data. "The post-recession reality is that the customer base for businesses that appeal to the middle class is shrinking as the top tier pulls even further away." Spending by the top 5% of earners now accounts for nearly 40% of personal consumption expenditures, which is up from 27% in 1992, according to the report. The Times data is from research by economists Steven Fazzari of Washington University in St. Louis and Barry Cynamon of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis. FREE AppDownload
Jason KingJason King, founder Sean's OutpostHomeless advocate, runner, and Bitcoin lover Jason King has combined all three together for an epic adventure. He's running across the country — some 3,100 miles — to raise money in Bitcoin for the homeless. He's the founder of Sean's Outpost, a homeless outreach center in Pensacola, Fla., which is named for King's best friend who was allegedly robbed and then killed in 2012. Recently, Sean's Outpost discovered it could do more to house and feed people when it received Bitcoin donations instead of other currencies.  Back in March, when one Bitcoin was worth about $50, Sean's Outpost made this announcement that it would be accepting the currency: “Donate 1 BTC and we will feed 40 people.” Over the course of the following months, donations poured in including a donation of 75 Bitcoins from Butterfly Labs/Bitcoin Development Fund. Sean's Outpost went from being able to provide 50 meals a week to thousands per week. Then it built homes for them, hiring the homeless to do the work and teaching them a job skill along the way. On his blog, King explained why Bitcoin, which allows people to transfer money anonymously, was an ideal way to support his work: Yes, yes we can build houses with [U.S. dollars] too. That's not unique to Bitcoin. But there is a lot unique to this community. And a lot of goodwill and compassion here. And being able to receive donations, globally, without a record of donors that can be confiscated is a big damn deal. ... When you allow people to dictate who has the right to donations you never know where that will stop. Sean's Outpost is now nearly legendary in the Bitcoin community. So, as part of this ultra-marathon, KryptoKit, an online Bitcoin wallet, supplied King with an RV as a support vehicle. Bitcoin Across AmericaJason King holds author Jeffrey Tucker in front of the KryptoKit bus King began his run from the North American Bitcoin Conference in Miami on January 26, and he will make a pit stop on March 6 at the Texas Bitcoin Conference, where he's speaking. The marathon is an amazing enough story on its own. But this adventure has its roots in a horrible tragedy. Sean's Outpost is named for King's best friend, Sean Dugas, who was killed in 2012. Dugas was 30 when he was killed.  Two brothers allegedly robbed him for his valuable collection of cards used in the role-playing game "Magic: The Gathering." Each card created for the game is unique and gives players various powers. Some of the cards in Dugas's collection were worth between $25,000 and $100,000, police told Tampa Bay 10News. Dugas's body was found buried in concrete in the backyard of the brother's father's home in Georgia, weeks after Dugas had been reported missing, the Associated Press reported. The cards were sold in Pensacola, Tenn. and Georgia, the police said. Dugas loved people so King wanted to honor his memory by helping people in need, the homeless, King said on his website. And the adventure began from there. Donations are accepted here. FREE AppDownload
Markit EconomicsThe UK remains the global leader in PMI despite a slowdown in January.PMI day is over. Countries from around the world reported about how their manufacturing sectors performed in January. This was measured in their purchasing manager's index (PMI), a score created by the Institute for Supply Management that surveys executives in thousands of companies from the given country. The surveys also contain data about employment, new orders and productivity. We basically got a straight split down the middle between countries reporting accelerating growth, and those slowing or contracting further.  Here is the full scorecard and schedule. China: Official PMI: 50.5 — down from 51.China: Non-manufacturing PMI: 53.4, down from 54.6.South Korea: HSBC Manufacturing PMI: 50.9 — up from 50.8.Indonesia: HSBC Manufacturing PMI: 51.0 — up from 50.9.India: HSBC Manufacturing PMI: 51.4, up from 50.7.Russia: HSBC Manufacturing PMI: 48.0, down from 48.8.Ireland: Investec Manufacturing PMI: 52.8, down from 53.5.Netherlands: NEVI Manufacturing PMI: 54.8, down from 57.0Poland: HSBC Manufacturing PMI: 55.4, up from 53.2.Turkey: HSBC Manufacturing PMI: 52.7, down from 55.0Spain: Markit Manufacturing PMI: 52.2, up from 50.8.Czech Republic: HSBC Manufacturing PMI: 55.9, up from 54.7Italy: Markit/ADACI Manufacturing PMI: 53.1, down from 53.3.France: Markit Manufacturing PMI: 49.3, up from 47.0.Germany: Markit/BME Manufacturing PMI: 56.5, up from 54.3.Eurozone: Markit Manufacturing PMI: 54.0, up from 52.7.Greece: Markit Manufacturing PMI: 51.2, up from 49.6.UK: Markit/CIPS Manufacturing PMI: 56.7, down from 57.2.Australia: Ai Group PMI: 46.7, down from 47.6Brazil: HSBC Manufacturing PMI: 50.8, up from 50.5.U.S.: Markit Manufacturing PMI: 53.8, down from 55.Canada: RBC Manufacturing PMI: 51.7, down from 53.5.Global: JPMorgan Manufacturing PMI: 52.9, down from 53.0. FREE AppDownload
Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg) Despite all of the rumblings from various corners of global financial markets in recent days and weeks, this chart perhaps best captures the mood in the market right now. The Citi Economic Surprise Index tracks how economic data come in relative to consensus Wall Street estimates — so when it's going up, economic data are beating Wall Street forecasts, and when it's going down, data are missing forecasts. The index peaked on January 15 at 72.7, its highest level since February 2012. By the end of last week, it had fallen to 49, and today, following a much weaker-than-expected ISM manufacturing release, it now stands at 32.6. The resurgence in economic data improvements relative to forecasts since November has been a big driver of positive sentiment in the marketplace lately. However, January marked a sharp departure from this atmosphere as the economic data got worse, stocks fell, and Treasuries rallied. Today is the first trading day of February, and it looks like the negative momentum is building — the economic surprise index has taken another big leg down this morning, stocks are falling sharply, and Treasuries are enjoying a strong lift. FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ Jonathan Ernst Bloomberg News Editor-In-Chief Matthew Winkler Reporters interviewing for a job with Bloomberg News famously have to answer three questions from the editor-in-chief Matthew Winkler.  This is the final round in the job interview process.  Aspiring Bloomberg reporters must answer these questions correctly in order to get hired.   We've included the questions below and advice on how to answer them from someone who has successfully completed the interview at Bloomberg.  1. What is the most important value in journalism?  How To Answer: "Accuracy." (That's the ONLY answer) This questions gets asked every time. We're told that everyone warns the reporters about it, so no one ever gets it wrong. 2. Where do you see yourself in X-number of years?  How To Answer: We're told that the key to answering this question is to not say anything outside of Bloomberg.  "One time there was a stocks intern who wrote a record number of stories without any corrections. But she didn't get hired because a manager asked what her goal in life was and she said to be Secretary of State of the United States. The fact that she had aspirations outside of Bloomberg cost her the job," our source explained.  To be safe, you might want to say that you see yourself "being an editor at Bloomberg News".   3. What is the most important modern financial news story?  How To Answer: It depends on what the big story is at the time, but we're told he does this to make sure you understand what the big-picture business story is in the world. A couple of summers ago the big story was Greece. Right now, the big story could be the emerging markets.  Now you know what to expect.  FREE AppDownload
apThe Justice Department is looking into a number of Wall Street banks' relationships with Libya after the country's sovereign wealth fund announced that it was suing Goldman Sachs last week, says the WSJ. Credit Suisse, J.P. Morgan, Société Générale, Blackstone Group BX and hedge fund Och-Ziff Capital Management Group are all being probed for allegedly hiring "fixers"to make key connections to the Gaddafi regime. Specifically, the DOJ wants to know if these middle men facilitated bribes that financial firms then paid to Libyan politicians in exchange for business deals. That is a violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Some fixers had direct ties to two of Gaddafi's sons, sources allege. None of the companies being investigated have been accused of wrongdoing. From WSJ: "Libya was fragile—one could feel it," said Gary Garrabrant, the former chief executive of Equity International, a Chicago-based real-estate investment trust founded by Sam Zell. Equity International considered deals in Libya, including the InterContinental project, according to Mr. Garrabrant. "There was a layer that existed in Libya of people that in effect controlled access," he said. "They were door openers." For the full report head to WSJ&gt; FREE AppDownload
Gold futures are up 1.5% after a slew of bad data this morning. Gold stocks are up too — producer Allied Nevada is up 4% on heavy volume, while miners Asanko and Avino are up 6% on lower flows. Here's the chart: Marketwatch FREE AppDownload
APLouis BaconAs beleaguered hedge fund SAC Capital transitions to a family office, its former employees are heading to rival outfits. CNBC's Lawrence Delevingne reported late last year that Louis Bacon's Moore Capital Management was looking to hire SAC's London-based traders. Now it's official. A team of nine SAC employees (seven portfolio managers and two analysts) will head to Bacon's $12.1 billion fund, the Wall Street Journal's Harriet Agnew reports. That's the largest SAC group to move together following the closure of SAC's London office at the end of last year, according to the report. In November, SAC agreed to pay almost $2 billion in penalties after a years-long insider trading probe. Steve Cohen, SAC's billionaire chief, still faces a civil suit from the SEC but hasn't been charged criminally (some of his traders have). Read the full report at the Wall Street Journal » FREE AppDownload
net_efekt / FlickrThe release of the results from the Institute for Supply Management's monthly manufacturing purchasing managers index survey revealed a sharp slowdown in the pace of growth in American manufacturing in January. ISM attributes the weakness to weather, citing respondents to the survey in its release. "Poor weather impacted outbound and inbound shipments," said a respondent from the fabricated metal products industry. "Good finish to 2013, but slow start to 2014, mostly attributed to weather," added a respondent from a petroleum and coal products manufacturer. "We have experienced many late deliveries during the past week due to the weather shutting down truck lines," said a manufacturer of plastics and rubber products. Despite this explanation for the manufacturing slowdown, markets are taking the bad numbers seriously — stocks are tumbling and yields are plummeting as Treasuries surge in the wake of the ISM release. Record-low temperatures in December and January have also been cited by many economists as the primary driver of disappointment in a string of weaker-than-expected housing-related and labor-market economic data releases in recent weeks, including the most recent release of the widely followed monthly jobs report prepared by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, which pointed to a sharp slowdown in hiring in December. However, since temperatures in December and January were known in advance of these releases, one would expect that cold weather would already be factored into forecasts — so disappointment relative to expectations due to weather isn't such a satisfying explanation for the latest turn in the economic data. "This ISM manufacturing report offers a sobering glimpse on the weakening in growth month in recent months, confirming the souring tone in other important economic indicators," says Millan Mulraine, deputy head of U.S. research and strategy at TD Securities. "Nevertheless, to the extent that much of this weakening in growth momentum has been due to the cold weather conditions nationally, we expect this slowdown to prove temporary and look for a meaningful rebound in activity in the coming months as the weather effects dissipate." The next big release that should give us a clue of how much weather is responsible for recent weakness in the January jobs report, is due out from the BLS Friday morning. "Although the month of January as a whole was quite cold, the payroll survey week was actually somewhat warmer than normal, and we expect no significant weather impact on the seasonally adjusted level of payrolls this month," says Goldman Sachs chief economist Jan Hatzius. "Given our estimate that the cold weather in the December survey week depressed the seasonally adjusted level of payrolls last month by about 50,000, this implies a positive weather impact on the payroll change of about 50,000." FREE AppDownload
Investors and boards all over corporate America are tired of getting kicked around by activist hedge fund managers who buy up shares in their companies and starting shaking things up. So they're fighting back against that influence, reports David Gelles at The New York Times. An alliance of board members from companies like Hertz and Coca-Cola, big investors like BlackRock and Vanguard, and corporate advisers have formed what they're calling the Shareholder-Director Exchange (SDX).The aim of the group is to give companies the tools they need to take on activist fund managers and win. If all works as planned, the SDX will have created the model for how it's done. Over the last year it has worked on developing a contingency plan for institutional investors and board members to start a dialogue in activist situations. From the NYT: “When Carl Icahn shows up in Apple and sends a tweet, Apple stock goes into turmoil,” said Declan Kelly, chief executive of Teneo, a consulting firm that helped organize the exchange. “That means shareholders are disconnected enough from the board’s message that they are responding to a 140-character message and not trusting Apple’s directors. It’s not healthy for the financial system.” With this set of protocols (that a board can voluntarily adopt or not), investors and board members can discuss issues like governance, long term plans/strategy and more. It can also be a forum for negotiation between board members and shareholders. Or — in the event that a certain hedge fund manager(s) takes an interest in your company — a way for board members and shareholders to talk about presenting a united front. Head to the NYT for the full report&gt; And check out SDX's press release below: Leading Public Company Directors and Institutional Investors Join to Launch SDX - the Shareholder-Director Exchange SDX - A Protocol for Connecting Shareholders and Board Members Available at www.SDXprotocol.com NEW YORK, Feb. 3, 2014 /PRNewswire/ -- A working group of leading public company directors, institutional investors and the advisory firms Tapestry Networks, Inc., Cadwalader, Wickersham &amp; Taft LLP and Teneo Holdings, LLC together with Broadridge Financial Solutions, Inc., today announced the launch of SDX – the Shareholder-Director Exchange. SDX is the collective best thinking of a broad group of leading corporate governance practitioners on why, how, and when boards and institutional investors should engage directly with each other. Although the SDX Protocol can be used in the context of a corporate crisis, it is intended to be a broader template for discussing and addressing corporate issues in the normal course of business. "Market conditions as well as an increasing focus on better and more effective governance practices have demonstrated the necessity of direct communication between directors and shareholders," said Bonnie Hill, Director, AK Steel Holding Corp., California Water Service Group, The Home Depot, and Yum! Brands. "There is a growing call for directors to engage directly with shareholders, but until now, the circumstances and conditions under which that engagement should take place have been unclear. The SDX Protocol was developed in partnership with investors and directors to help navigate these uncharted waters." "When boards want to know the views of their shareholders, they should go direct to the source," said Michelle Edkins, Managing Director, Global Head of Corporate Governance &amp; Responsible Investment at BlackRock. "Similarly, as a long-term investor, we believe there are issues on which only a director can credibly provide the company viewpoint. The direct board to shareholder engagement proposed in the SDX protocol will help build mutual understanding on key governance matters when necessary and appropriate." Both investors and directors are realizing significant value from direct engagement. Engagement improves transparency, mutual understanding, and the overall quality of governance in the market. Engagement can also reduce transaction and friction costs. "Interactions between boards and shareholders of all types need to be rethought with an eye toward developing a common perspective on long-term value creation," said James C. Woolery, Deputy Chairman of Cadwalader, Wickersham &amp; Taft LLP. "SDX will help boards and shareholders demystify the engagement process, and make sure it works effectively for both parties." "In today's market environment, boards that are not communicating with their investors on a continuing basis risk making themselves vulnerable to activists who will exploit the vacuum that is created," said Declan Kelly, Chairman and CEO of Teneo Holdings. "Engagement as envisioned in SDX – where the decision to engage is made in consultation with or at the request of management – is a powerful tool to deploy." "Historically in the US, the benefits of engagement have been understated, and the costs and risks inflated," said Anthony Goodman, partner at Tapestry Networks. "There are very few elections where dialogue between the elected and the electorate is positively discouraged. The right sort of director-shareholder engagement can help each group do its job better. SDX is about helping that happen." "Broadridge commends the working group for its care and insight in creating the Protocol," said Richard J. Daly, CEO Broadridge. "The working group noted that the Protocol is adaptable by companies and directors for their engagement with all shareholders. In this regard, technology can be essential to eliminating the element of surprise that may occur from one year to the next in director elections and votes on pay plans and other matters." "Engagement with the companies in which the Vanguard funds invest has long been one of the central tenets of our approach to governance and long-term value creation for our clients," said Glenn Booraem, Principal &amp; Fund Controller, Vanguard. "The SDX Protocol represents best practices of leading companies and investors, and it presents these practices in a way that fosters greater dialogue among market participants for the benefit of all investors." "The rules of engagement between boards and shareholders are changing, and SDX addresses head-on the challenges that are top of mind for directors," said Linda Fayne Levinson, Director, Hertz, Ingram Micro, Jacobs Engineering Group, NCR, and Western Union. "The SDX Protocol's ten points will be a powerful reference for directors who want to understand the 'how' of engagement. I look forward to seeing how boards and investors will make use of SDX for deeper and more productive engagement." SDX was developed after a comprehensive series of interviews and meetings led by Tapestry Networks. More than 30 directors, institutional investors, and corporate governance thought leaders were interviewed as part of SDX. A group of 17 leading investors and directors served on the working group that developed the protocol: Glenn Booraem, Principal and Fund Controller, VanguardLes Brun, Director, Automatic Data Processing, Inc., Broadridge Financial Solutions, MerckStu Dalheim, Vice President, Shareholder Advocacy, Calvert InvestmentsMichelle Edkins, Managing Director and Global Head of Corporate Governance and Responsible Investment, BlackRockTim Goodman, Associate Director and Head of North American Engagement, Hermes EOSBonnie Hill, Director, AK Steel Holding Corp., California Water Service Group, The Home Depot, and Yum! BrandsMichele Hooper, Director, National Association of Corporate Directors, PPG Industries, and United Health GroupLabe Jackson, Director, JPMorgan Chase and Co.Andrew Letts, Managing Director and Head of Corporate Governance, State Street Global AdvisorsLinda Fayne Levinson, Director, Hertz, Ingram Micro, Jacobs Engineering Group, NCR, and Western UnionMike McCauley, Senior Officer, Investment Programs &amp; Governance, State Board of Administration of FloridaEileen Mercier, Director, Intact Financial Corp., Ontario Teachers' Pension Plan, Teekay Shipping Corp., and the University Health NetworkThomas Mistele, Director, Chief Operating Officer, Senior Counsel, and Secretary, Dodge &amp; Cox, San FranciscoTom O'Neill, Director, Archer Daniels Midland, NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc., and MisonixNathan Partain, President and Chief Investment Officer, Duff &amp; Phelps Investment Management Co.; Director, Otter Tail Corp.Debra Perry, Director, Korn/Ferry International and PartnerReRich Roedel, Director, IHS, Inc., Lorillard, Inc., Luna Innovations Inc., and Six Flags Entertainment Corp. FREE AppDownload
jyri/flickrThe Institute for Supply Management's survey of manufacturing conditions fell to 51.3 in January. Consensus was for a half-point decline to 56.0 from a revised 56.5. Anything above 50 indicates growth, so while we're still in that range, we barely budged this month.  Full release » The prices paid index spiked to 60.5 from 53.5. There was a lot of chatter about weather effects in the report's anecdotes: Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi's Chris Rupkey says manufacturing has a cold: "Net net, ISM manufacturing fell off a cliff, and markets will have to rely on our analysis of the report stating 51.3 for the overall index is still above 50 so the manufacturing economy is still expanding.  Please ignore that it fell 5.2 points this month.  Markets are always held captive by the latest reports.  We can say ignore today’s decline, it is due to inclement weather, but we really have to wait to see if the number bounces back after the weather warms back up in the next few months.  Manufacturing caught a cold this month, keeping our fingers crossed it is not the start of something more serious." We just learned growth in Markit Economics' reading for U.S. manufacturing slowed. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Robert GalbraithConstruction spending climbed 0.1% on the month in December.  This was modestly above expectations for spending to stay flat. Construction spending was up 5.3% on the year. November's reading was revised down to show a 0.8% monthly rise, compared to an initial reading of a 1% rise. Total residential construction was a up 17.5% on the year and 2.4% on the month. Meanwhile, private residential construction spending was up 18.3% on the year and 2.6% on the month. Homebuilder confidence slowed to 56 in January. Meanwhile, new home sales plunged 7.1% in December and the slowdown was attributed to the extreme cold weather. We saw total (public + private) power construction fall 20.5% on the year and rise 2.7% on the month. And lodging was up 31% on the year and down 0.1% on the month. FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ Michelle McLoughlin Steven A. Cohen's once $14 billion namesake hedge fund SAC Capital Advisors is going to change its name very soon. According to DealBook's Ben Protess and Alexandra Stevenson report, the hedge fund is finalizing plans to change its name and corporate structure by mid-march. Cohen will remain the CEO of the fund.  Following an insider trading scandal, SAC Capital will operate as a family office and it will no longer accept outside capital. The fund will have about $9 billion AUM. In November, SAC pleaded guilty to criminal insider trading charges. The fund also agreed to pay a $1.8 billion fine.  Feel free to sound off in the comments section with ideas for a new name for SAC Capital. We also suggest using the Hedge Fund Name Generator if you need any help thinking of names.  FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
MarkitMarkit's purchasing manager's index for U.S. manufacturing showed slowing growth, with a reading of 53.7. That's down from 55 in December. It's a three-month low. New export orders contracted, meaning the sub-index slipped below 50. Markit's Chris Williamson said weather was to blame, and that while growth has slowed it remains robust: “Survey respondents reported the weakest growth of output and new orders for three months in January, but with many companies blaming exceptionally cold weather for production and supply chain disruptions,   the underlying trend looks to have remained robust. “The ongoing expansion suggests that the goods producing sector is on course to contribute to another quarter of solid economic growth in the first quarter, and is also helping sustain a decent rate of   job creation. The survey is broadly consistent with 10,000 jobs being created per month in the   manufacturing sector which, added to the signal from the flash services PMI, points to non-farm payroll   growth in the region of 200,000 in January. “The improvement supports the view that the   economy is withstanding the ongoing tapering by the   Fed. However, it will be important to see the indices   bounce back from January’s weather-related   weakness to be sure of this resilience.”   We've been following along with the rest of the world's PMI's . Click here to see the scorecard » FREE AppDownload
First, the nutritional supplements seller announced its fourth quarter preliminary results boosting expectations.   Volumes full year and fourth quarter 2013 are expected to be up 13.1% and 12.7%, respectively. In that same statement, Herbalife also said its board of directors had increased the stock buyback to $1.5 billion from $1 billion.  In another statement, Herbalife announced a $1 billion convertible debt offering. Herbalife's stock that has been at the center of an epic hedge fund battle. Bill Ackman, who runs Pershing Square, publicly declared in late 2012 that he was shorting more than 20 million shares of the company with a price target of $0.  He believes the company operates as a "pyramid scheme" and that regulators will shut it down.  Other fund managers have disagreed with Ackman, most notably his long-time rival Carl Icahn, who owns a massive stake.   Here's Herbalife's press release from this morning:  LOS ANGELES--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Herbalife Ltd. (HLF) today provided a preview of anticipated results for its fourth quarter and fiscal year ended December 31, 2013. The company reported preliminary, unaudited results that include the following: Herbalife also announced the following: About Herbalife Ltd. Herbalife Ltd. (HLF) is a global nutrition company that sells weight-management, nutrition, and personal care products intended to support a healthy lifestyle. Herbalife products are sold in over 90 countries through and to a network of independent distributors. The Company supports the Herbalife Family Foundation and its Casa Herbalife program to help bring good nutrition to children. Herbalife's website contains a significant amount of financial and other information about Herbalife for investors at http://ir.Herbalife.com. The company encourages investors to visit its website from time to time, as information is updated and new information is posted. 1 Fourth quarter and full year 2013 adjusted diluted EPS excludes the impact, net of taxes, of the February 2013 devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar; expenses (primarily for legal and advisory services) relating to the company’s response to information put into the marketplace by a short seller, which the company believes to be inaccurate and misleading; and expenses incurred in connection with the re-audit of 2010-2012 financial statements resulting from KPMG LLP’s resignation. See Schedule A – “Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for more detail. 2 Forward guidance excludes the impact of expenses (primarily for legal and advisory services) relating to the company’s response to information put into the marketplace by a short seller, which information the company believes to be inaccurate and misleading and the impact of the recently announced financing transaction and any subsequent share repurchase activity. Forward guidance is based on the average daily exchange rates of the first two weeks of January. Included in the guidance is the use of the GAAP rate for Venezuela of 6.3 to 1 for January results and 10 to 1 for the balance of the year and excludes the potential impact of future devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar and any future repatriation of existing cash balances in Venezuela. 3 Our financial statement filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission present our consolidated results. Herbalife Ltd. is incorporated in the Cayman Islands. Under Cayman Islands law, our ability to pay dividends and repurchase shares of our common stock is determined by the amount of distributable reserves evident from the balance sheet of our parent company. Our current distributable reserves exceed our current share repurchase authorization. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Although we believe that the expectations reflected in any of our forward-looking statements are reasonable, actual results could differ materially from those projected or assumed in any of our forward-looking statements. Our future financial condition and results of operations, as well as any forward-looking statements, are subject to change and to inherent risks and uncertainties, such as those disclosed or incorporated by reference in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Important factors that could cause our actual results, performance and achievements, or industry results to differ materially from estimates or projections contained in our forward-looking statements include, among others, the following: We do not undertake any obligation to update or release any revisions to any forward-looking statement or to report any events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as required by law. Here's the other release:  Herbalife Ltd. (HLF) today announced that it intends, subject to market and other conditions, to offer $1 billion aggregate principal amount of convertible senior notes due 2019 (the “Convertible Notes”) in a private offering to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"). The initial purchasers of the Convertible Notes will be Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Credit Suisse, HSBC and Morgan Stanley. The company expects to grant an option to the initial purchasers to purchase up to an additional $150 million aggregate principal amount of Convertible Notes. The Convertible Notes are expected to pay interest semiannually and upon conversion will be settled in cash and, if applicable, the company’s common shares, based on a conversion rate to be determined at the pricing of the Convertible Notes. The Convertible Notes will mature on August 15, 2019, unless repurchased or converted in accordance with their terms prior to such date. Prior to May 15, 2019, the Convertible Notes will be convertible only upon the occurrence of certain events and during certain periods, and thereafter, at any time until the second scheduled trading day immediately preceding the maturity date. The company expects to use the net proceeds from the sale of the Convertible Notes to fund the cost of repurchasing its common shares by entering into prepaid forward share repurchase transactions and the cost of certain capped call transactions, described below. The company expects to use the remaining net proceeds from the offering for working capital and general corporate purposes, including, without limitation, the repurchase of outstanding common shares. In connection with the offering, the company intends to enter into one or more prepaid forward share repurchase transactions (each a “Forward Transaction”) with one or more of the initial purchasers (or their respective affiliates) (each a “Forward Counterparty”), pursuant to which the company will purchase a specified number of common shares for settlement on or around the maturity date for the Convertible Notes, subject to the ability of each Forward Counterparty to elect to settle all or a portion of its Forward Transaction early. The Forward Transactions are generally expected to facilitate privately negotiated derivative transactions between the Forward Counterparties and holders of the Convertible Notes, including swaps, relating to the common shares by which holders of the Convertible Notes will establish short positions relating to the common shares and otherwise hedge their investments in the Convertible Notes concurrently with, or shortly after, the pricing of the Convertible Notes. In addition, in connection with the offering, the company expects to enter into one or more capped call transactions (each a “Capped Call Transaction”) with one or more of the initial purchasers (or their respective affiliates) and/or one or more other financial institutions (each an "Option Counterparty"). The Capped Call Transactions are expected generally to reduce the potential dilution upon conversion of the Convertible Notes in the event that the market price of the common shares is greater than the strike price of the Capped Call Transactions, which will initially correspond to the initial conversion price of the Convertible Notes, with such reduction of potential dilution subject to a cap based on the cap price of the Capped Call Transactions. If the initial purchasers exercise their option to purchase additional Convertible Notes, the company expects to enter into one or more additional Capped Call Transactions with the Option Counterparties. The company has been advised that, in connection with establishing their initial hedges of the Capped Call Transactions, the Option Counterparties expect to purchase the common shares over a five trading day period immediately following the pricing of the Convertible Notes. Hedging of the Forward Transactions and Capped Call Transactions could have the effect of increasing, or reducing the size of any decrease in, the price of the Convertible Notes or the common shares concurrently with, or shortly after, the pricing of the Convertible Notes. In addition, the Forward Counterparties (or their respective affiliates) are likely to modify their hedge positions by entering into or unwinding various derivative transactions with respect to the common shares and/or by purchasing the common shares or other securities of the company in secondary market transactions following the pricing of the Convertible Notes and prior to the maturity of the Convertible Notes (and are likely to do so during the final valuation period under the Forward Transactions, which precedes the maturity date for the Convertible Notes, on or around any earlier observation period related to a conversion of the Convertible Notes and on or around any election by a Forward Counterparty to settle all or a portion of its Forward Transaction early). Further, the Option Counterparties are likely to modify their hedge positions by entering into or unwinding various derivatives with respect to the common shares and/or purchasing or selling common shares or other securities of the company in secondary market transactions following the pricing of the Convertible Notes and prior to the maturity of the Convertible Notes (and are likely to do so during any observation period related to a conversion of Convertible Notes). The effect, if any, of any of these transactions and activities on the market price of the common shares or the Convertible Notes will depend in part on market conditions and cannot be ascertained at this time, but any of these activities could also cause or avoid an increase or a decrease in the market price of the common shares or the Convertible Notes, which could affect the ability of holders of the Convertible Notes to convert the Convertible Notes and, to the extent the activity occurs during any conversion period related to a conversion of Convertible Notes, it could affect the amount and value of the consideration that holders of the Convertible Notes will receive upon conversion of the Convertible Notes. This press release is neither an offer to sell nor a solicitation of an offer to buy the Convertible Notes or the common shares issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Notes, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any state or jurisdiction in which such an offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to the registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state or jurisdiction. The Convertible Notes and any common shares issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Notes have not been and will not be registered under the Securities Act, or the securities laws of any other jurisdiction, and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from registration requirements.   FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
The sustainability of record-high profit margins continues to be one of the hottest topics in the markets. Most experts agree that we're due for some profit margin contraction wages eventually increase and prices eventually come down. But the latest data show that margins, for now, are only going higher. "The rolling four-quarter operating margin is tracking at 8.9%, a return to the previous peak reached in 3Q 2011," wrote Goldman Sachs' Amanda Sneider, who cited information coming from Q4 earnings announcements. "While the majority of operating margin expansion is due to the anniversarying of negative atypical operating items and pension-related gains this quarter, margin levels that exclude these items also returned to peak levels," added Sneider. "We expect margins to remain flat over 2014, although consensus expects further expansion to 9.5%." The benefit of lower pension costs is not a surprise as the surging stock market has put many pension funds closer to funded status. Still, that increased level of financial flexibility has not yet been offset elsewhere. Goldman Sachs FREE AppDownload
Scott Olson/Getty ImagesThe credit and debit card information of thousands of guests who stayed at certain Marriott hotels in 2013 has been stolen, according to security blogger Brian Krebs. The target was the hotel management company White Lodging, which also maintains some Hilton, Sheraton and Westin hotel franchises. Bankers started noticing fraud on the compromised cards in March, according to Krebs. Only certain Marriott hotels were affected, including locations in Austin, Chicago, Denver, Los Angeles, Louisville, and Tampa. White Lodging issued a statement saying "an investigation is in progress" and that they will "provide meaningful information as soon as it becomes available." The breach mostly affects credit and debit cards that were used at hotel gift shops and restaurants. This isn't the first data breach to affect Marriott hotels. In 2010, a man hoping for a security job at Marriott hacked into the company's computer system and stole proprietary information. Krebs is the same researcher who exposed the massive Target hack that has since been widely reported. FREE AppDownload
Flickr / TorbakhopperDave Lutz of Stifel Nicolaus has a roundup of what traders are chatting about ahead of the U.S. market open: Good Morning!   US Futures are basically unchanged, well off the lows of the overnight – but global stocks hover near 3M lows.   Today is the first trading day of the month, so watch for the “Good Harbor” rebalance (typically see a big skew in IWM, UWM, IVV, SSO, UST, and IEI).   Euro markets are off small as we enter ECB week, as EU Manufacturing PMI strong, and German PMI spikes – reducing dovish chatter.   Banks in EU hit for 1% – weighed by bad #s from Lloyds and Baer, but volumes are light.   In Asia, the Nikkei enters correction territory, off 10% since Dec30 as the Yen near 2M highs against $, and 3M highs against €.   While trading in Asia was light by the closure of Hong Kong, China, and Taiwan for the lunar New Year holidays, Both China’s PMI prints weigh on sentiment (Manufacturing 6M low, Services 5Y low).   Indonesia off 70bp despite surging exports – and India off 1.1% despite a PMI spike, but Thailand surged 1.5% as their election proceeded without major disruptions.   Most EM FX remain stable – Lira, Rand and Forint were all unchanged to higher against the $, but the EEM is marked 60bp lower in early trading.  Single Stock movers include FCEL + 2%, PHM + 2% (Susq U/g), HLF + 1.5% (Buyback) - We have 92 companies, or almost 20% of the SPX reporting this week – focus on YUM and APC tonight. The 10YY is up small, but remains near 2.66%, after being rejected from 2.67% several times in the overnight.   The Yen has a bid to it, with $-Yen breaking below the key 102 support that held several days last week.   The € is seeing some buying on their PMI print reducing odds of a cut this week (Seeing projections pushed out to March) – so overall DXY is under slight pressure, providing a tailwind to commodities.   Platinum is up 1% (Auto #s today, expecting a weather impact) – and both Silver and Gold are popping (big Gold bullishness in CFTC data).   The Crude Complex is basically unchanged, and Copper is up small, despite the Chinese PMI headwind.   Natty down 3.5%, a 3rd day in a row, losing 13% from it’s peak and nearing 1week lows.   Yellen sworn in today, first testimony is next week on Feb 11th – and this is NFP week – Bloomberg speculates the weather could be a factor again, and Hilsenrath out talking how unemployment a key focus for Janet.   FREE AppDownload
So the crisis didn’t just start in January. However, it may be premature to say that it is almost over. Nevertheless, it may soon be over as far as the stock markets in the US, Europe, and Japan are concerned. That’s because Debbie and I don’t expect a contagion. The trouble spots are troubled by their own unique circumstances and will have to work them out on their own. The global economy has been weathering several storms in recent years. The first storm, during 2008, was US-centric and depressed the global economy. The second storm, from 2010-2012, was centered in the Eurozone and dampened global economic growth. Now, the third storm is hitting a number of emerging economies, but shouldn’t slow the global economy much given that growth is picking up in the US, Europe, and Japan. Helping some of the emerging markets weather their storms should be the record amount of non-gold international reserves that they hold. IMF data show that collectively they held a record $7.8 trillion during November. China’s reserves account for about half of that sum. However, some of the more troubled emerging economies also held sizeable record or near-record reserves at the end of last year: Russia ($470bn), Brazil ($356bn), India ($275bn), Turkey ($129bn), South Africa ($45bn), and Argentina ($28bn). Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Take the Money &amp; Run? (1) January Barometer hits and misses. (2) Positive annual exceptions to negative Januarys. (3) Melt-up/meltdown less likely? (4) An inauspicious beginning. (5) Assessing the bear case. (6) Are the bears teeing us up for yet another relief rally? (7) The moon can influence China’s M-PMI. (8) Power to the Chinese people. (9) Oil exports pumping up US GDP. (10) Fed giving more weight to inflation data, and so are we. (11) “Jack Ryan: Shadow Recruit” (- - -). (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
Emerging Markets (High Risk):   The MSCI Emerging Market equity index peaked in 2011 and is off a little more than 20% since then.   Last month, it fell 6%.   Investors’ post-2009 love affair with emerging markets is over.   The fact of the matter is that most were emerging markets 20 years ago and are likely to be emerging markets 20 years from now.   There were two attractors—liquidity and structural reforms and we suspect, as is their wont, investors have tended to emphasis the latter and under appreciate the former.   One clear implication is that real interest rates will have to rise through most of the emerging market universe.     And this will have negative knock-on effects for growth. However, due to some structural reforms, including more flexible currency regimes, somewhat deeper capital markets, and the accumulation of reserves, which can be understood as a type of self-insurance, many emerging market countries are better able to cope with a capital outflows.     The key to whether investor panic leads to a crisis seems to be largely a function of the response by policy makers.   The IMF/World Bank and the US Treasury have urged developing countries to take advantage of the signals to strengthen their own policy reaction.  They might as well be shouting in the wind. Portfolio Allocation (High Risk):   In addition to sizeable outflows from emerging market funds that have been widely reported, there have been three other notable portfolio adjustments.   First, anecdotal reports indicate that in recent weeks, several large asset managers have shifted from stocks to bonds.  In this context, we note that US Treasuries had their single best month in January since the middle of 2012.  To the extent there is foreign investment component, we note that due to relative volatilities, foreign fixed income investment tends to carry a higher hedge ratio than foreign equity investments.  Second, after strong foreign interests in recent months that has helped drive Spain and Italian rates to record lows, some large asset managers have reportedly begun adjusting positions on valuation grounds.   Third, Japanese investor appetite for foreign bonds that was evident in the second half  of 2013 appears to have waned in January, as they turned net sellers again.  For their part, foreign investors have slowed their purchases of Japanese shares.  Trade Promotion Authority (Low Risk):  Within 24-hours of President Obama’s State of the Union Speech in which he called on Congress to grant him Trade Promotion Authority to complete the negotiations for Trans-Pacific Partnership and the Trans-Atlantic Trade and Investment Partnership, Senate Majority Leader Reid underscored his opposition.     Even though the risk that TPP, which was initially to be completed last year, is further delayed is high, the risk to investors appears minimal.  Yet, it speaks volumes about the outlook for fresh initiatives ahead of the November election and the consequence of the erosion of support for President Obama.  Note that this follows the recent refusal by Congress to ratify the long planned increase in the IMF’s quota.  Some observers talk about a new wave of isolationism in the US, but sometimes in the past, isolationism was a shroud to cover unilateralism.  China (Near-term Low Risk):   The Lunar New Year celebration will keep China out of the spotlight in the coming week.  It will report the service sector PMI reading first thing Monday in Beijing, but other than that, it will likely be out of the news in the coming days.  The official manufacturing PMI was reported at 50.5, which was in line with expectations, but is the lowest reading since last July.  Output hit a four month low and new orders slipped to six month lows, though both are still above the 50 boom/bust level.  Employment and export orders were below 50.   Reserve Bank of Australia (Medium Risk):  The RBA is the first of the three central bank meetings from the high income countries.  There is little doubt that policy is on hold with the cash rate at a record low 2.5%.   The credit expansion, the somewhat higher than expected CPI  inflation figures, and the roughly 8% decline in a trade-weighted measure of the Australian dollar over the last four months remove the sense of urgency to cut rate further.  At the same time, the weakness of the labor market, the softness in producer prices (pipeline inflation?) and the erosion of the terms of trade, means the RBA is unlikely to close the door completely on another rate cut, which now seems more likely in Q2 than Q1.  We attribute a medium risk to the prospect of a more neutral sounding RBA statement.  We note that central bank officials have cited $0.8500 and $0.8000 as targets for the exchange rate. Bank of England (Low Risk):  The Bank of England is securely on the sidelines.  BOE Governor Carney has already indicated that the next step in the evolution of forward guidance will be announced with the quarterly inflation report on February 12.  Contrary to claims that Carney is jettisoning the forward guidance, we expect the BOE to drive home the point that the 7.0% unemployment rate was a threshold not a trigger for tighter policy.  In effect, the BOE will say, we re-examined the economic conditions in light of the threshold being approached and we continue to judge the economy as recovering but still in need to very low interest rates.   The September short sterling futures contract rallied in January and the implied yield is 16 bp lower than it was in late-December at an implied yield of about 64 bp.   It can fall toward 50 bp bank rate on dovish comments and data that suggest the economic activity is leveling off, which is expected to be seen in the PMI reports in the coming days.  Euro Area PMI (Low Risk):  The flash readings steal much of the thunder from the final reports that are out in week ahead.  The focus will be on Spain and Italy for signs of continued recovery.  The manufacturing PMI for the euro area is at its best level since 2011, which has lifted the composite as well.  The service sector has lagged, though the flash reading put it at four month highs.  We note that the criticism of the lack of progress reform in the German service sector appears to be on the rise.  ECB Meeting (High Risk):  The two pillars of ECB monetary policy, money supply and inflation, disappointed on the downside.  This has spurred speculation that the ECB will take action at its meeting on February 6.  A large German bank has forecast a small cut in the 25 bp repo rate and, more important, a move to a negative deposit rate.  Others have predicted an end to the efforts to sterilize the SMP purchases.     Since EONIA has traded above the repo rate, we think a repo rate cut is largely immaterial.  Cutting the 75 bp lending rate would be more significant in capping the increase in EONIA.    A negative deposit rate could be potentially very disruptive as it puts the ECB in unprecedented territory.  Even Japan through its deflationary years never adopted a negative deposit rate.     The ECB does not need to open the can of worms by formally ending its sterilization of the SMP sovereign bond purchases.  It would likely be highly controversial as some (read Germany and its creditor allies) may see it is an illegal monetization of sovereign debt.  It can take a stay with its more passive of failing to attract enough interest in its sterilization operations.  This would be less controversial but effective in providing more liquidity on a weekly basis.   We see ECB officials more concerned about lending to the SME sector.   In one of the more important discussions at Davos, Draghi indicated a willingness to consider buying bank bonds, backed by loans to households and SMEs.   Though it does not appear imminent, development along these lines seem more promising.  US Jobs Data (High Risk):  The market generally anticipates a dramatic recovery in non-farm payrolls in January after the disappointing 74k increase in December.   However, there is substantial risk that the frigid temperatures in the Midwest, South and Northeast will make for another disappointing report.   Last month, we noted how well the ADP estimates had anticipated the official data, just in time for the large miss (ADP Jan estimates was 238k, while the private sector NFP grew by only 87k).  Having been burned last month, investors will likely put less weight on it this time.    The market will quickly look at the weather distortions and make adjustment accordingly.   Before the Fed meets again (mid-March), it will see another jobs report, so the policy implications of a disappointing report may not be that great.   Most investors and observers see the bar relatively high against the Fed deviating from the tapering strategy outlined by the FOMC in December.  There is also substantial risk that without emergency unemployment benefits being extended there may be an unusually large decline in the unemployment rate as more people leave the labor market.  Arguably the Fed’s forward guidance anticipates this possibility by saying rates will remain low even after unemployment falls through the 6.5% threshold.   While the employment report is the last major event of the week, at the start of the week, the US reports January auto sales.   The consensus calls for a 15.7 mln unit selling pace after the disappointing 15.3 mln unit pace in December.  If true this would put the January sales about the average in H2 13.  However, there is risk of disappointment due to weather disruptions and this would weigh on the retail sales report (January 13), which already are looking soft even excluding auto sales.   Lastly, the debt ceiling debt poses headline risk, though distortions to the short-dated T-bills appears to have eased somewhat.         Read more posts on Marc to Market » FREE AppDownload
Wolf of Wall Street trailer(Reuters) - The U.S. Department of Justice is investigating banks, private equity firms and hedge funds that may have violated anti-bribery laws in their dealings with Libya's government-run investment fund, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing people familiar with the matter. Federal investigators are examining Goldman Sachs Group Inc &lt;GS.N&gt;, Credit Suisse Group AG &lt;CSGN.VX&gt;, JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co &lt;JPM.N&gt;, Societe Generale &lt;SOGN.PA&gt;, private equity firm Blackstone Group &lt;BX.N&gt; and hedge fund Och-Ziff Capital Management Group LLC &lt;OZM.N&gt;, the Journal said. The DOJ is investigating investment deals made around the time of the financial crisis and afterward and whether the firms violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the paper said. The Libyan Investment Authority (LIA) invested up to $1 billion in funds run by all the firms under scrutiny except Blackstone, according to a 2010 audit of the sovereign wealth fund by KPMG, the Journal said. (http://link.reuters.com/puq56v) Investigators are also probing a group of middlemen, known as "fixers", operating in the Middle East, London and elsewhere, to look at their roles in arranging deals between financial firms and Libyan officials, the Journal said. The DOJ, Goldman Sachs, Credit Suisse and JPMorgan could not be immediately reached for comments by Reuters outside of regular U.S. business hours. Last month, LIA filed a lawsuit against Goldman Sachs in London's High Court, seeking to cancel a series of equity derivatives trades between January and April 2008 and the repayment of premiums paid to the investment bank for its services. (Reporting by Shubhankar Chakravorty in Bangalore; Editing by Supriya Kurane) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Athit PerawongmethaProtesters demanding the right to vote confront a district officer at the Din Dang district office, where voting was called off, in Bangkok February 2, 2014. Thailand went to the polls under heavy security on Sunday in an election that could push the divided country deeper into political turmoil and leave the winner paralysed for months by street protests, legal challenges and legislative limbo. Voting was called off in the district and some other polling stations were unable to open because of pressure by anti-government protesters. Good morning. Here's what you need to know. — Global markets have fallen into risk-off mode again to begin the week, although at the moment the damage is looking fairly limited. High-beta emerging-market currencies that have been at the center of the turmoil over the last two weeks, like the Turkish lira and the South African rand, are both stronger on the day against the U.S. dollar. The dollar is still sliding against the euro and the yen, though, and Asian markets fell in overnight trading, led downward by the Japanese Nikkei 225, which fell 2.0%. European markets are in the red across the board, and in the U.S., S&amp;P 500 futures point to a negative open, while Treasury note futures point to a positive open. — Over the weekend, China released the results of its services-sector Purchasing Managers Index survey. The report's headline index slipped to 53.4 from December's 54.6 reading, indicating a slowdown in the pace of expansion in China's services sector over the past month. Unlike China's manufacturing PMI, however, which slipped below 50 this month, the services sector PMI points to continued growth for now. — The eurozone manufacturing PMI rose to a 32-month high of 54.0 in January from 52.7 in December, coming in just above the consensus estimate of 53.9. Germany's manufacturing PMI also hit a 32-month high of 56.5 (from 54.3 in December; 56.3 expected). Spain's manufacturing PMI posted a strong advance, with manufacturing employment rising for the first time since 2010, and Greece's manufacturing PMI broke above 50, signaling the first expansion in 53 months. In France, the index was still negative at 49.3, indicating a continued contraction in the French manufacturing sector, but the index is now at its highest level in four months. — In the U.K., manufacturing PMI slipped to 56.7 from December's 57.2 reading. Despite the slowdown, the number is still indicative of robust growth in U.K. manufacturing. One particularly bright spot in this report was the new export orders component. "The latest expansion in new export orders was broad-based by source, with U.K. manufacturers mentioning improved demand from North America, mainland Europe, Asia, Brazil, Scandinavia and the Middle East," said Markit in the release. "Moreover, the ongoing improvement in global market conditions drove the rate of increase in new export business to a near three-year record." — At 8:58 AM ET, Markit releases the final results of its January U.S. manufacturing PMI survey. The report's headline index is expected to fall to 53.8 from December's 55.0 reading, indicating a slowdown in the pace of growth in U.S. manufacturing. — Out at 10:00 are the results of the Institute for Supply Management's monthly manufacturing survey, which is similar to Markit PMI. The ISM index is expected to fall to 56.0 from December's 57.0 reading, indicative of a minor slowdown in the pace of growth in U.S. manufacturing. The ISM prices paid index is expected to tick up to 54.0 from 53.5. — Also released at 10:00 are December construction spending data. Economists predict spending was unchanged in December after rising 1.0% in November. Unseasonally cold weather likely played a part in the slowdown. — Finally, global auto manufacturers will be reporting January sales numbers throughout the day today. Analysts predict vehicle sales rose to 15.6 million at a seasonally adjusted annualized rate from 15.3 million SAAR in December. Follow all of the data LIVE on Business Insider » — Janet Yellen will be sworn in as Fed chairman this morning at 9 AM. The next big date on the calendar for the new Fed chief is February 11, when she will deliver the central bank's semi-annual report on monetary policy in a testimony before Congress. — In an article in this morning's Wall Street Journal, Federal Reserve reporter Jon Hilsenrath writes about the biggest open question facing Fed policy at the moment: the amount of slack in the labor market. "The trend raises hard-to-answer questions for the Fed," says Hilsenrath of the recent drop in labor force participation. "Will some of these people come back to work when the economy improves or have they left permanently? Do these shifts mean there is less slack in labor markets — workers available to take jobs — than they realized, or is the slack still out there, hidden in these numbers?" MARKET COMMENTARY "We have been pursuing the line that the recent EM ructions are the product of fundamental concerns resurfacing as the liquidity tide now recedes in line with the Fed’s tapering efforts. As such, these tensions reflect the pressures that are building upon more fundamentally challenged countries rather than presaging a broader systemic crisis. "China, however, represents a potential key threat to this sanguine outlook. In essence , one could view China as the 'other side of the coin' in terms of the risk of EM being subject to a broader balance of payments crisis. The U.S. is the most evident current threat due to concern tapering will undermine or even reverse EM capital flows. The flipside of these capital account concerns though are those relating to the current account and it is here that China comes in: a more pronounced deceleration in Chinese growth threatening to directly weigh on its key EM export partners but also indirectly on resource-rich countries via falling commodity prices." —Rabobank interest rate strategists "EUR may lose some of its safe haven appeal if peripheral markets become more susceptible to external shocks to market confidence. Asset valuation, uncertainty about the prospects of another LTRO and worries about the regulatory treatment of banks’ exposure to government debt could all work to dampen domestic demand. Growing euro sensitivity to swings in global risk appetite could make the single currency more vulnerable across the board as the ECB deliberates its next policy move to fight disinflation. "EUR lost ground last week as markets started positioning for another dovish ECB meeting on Thursday. Its recent correction lower notwithstanding, investors may be hesitant to sell the euro further given its status of a safe haven currency. The second most liquid reserve currency could remain supported against G10 smalls and EM currencies if recent market volatility escalates some more. This is what happened last summer when Fed-driven market volatility forced many to opt for safety of low-beta, euro-denominated assets. It helped also, that peripheral bond yield spreads to Bunds continued tightening despite the risk sell-off." —Valentin Marinov, an FX strategist at Citi FREE AppDownload
via Weather ChannelNew York City seems to be the epicenter of this most recent snowstorm, which spans from Maine all the way to D.C. Forecasters predict six to 10 inches in New York City, according to The Weather Channel. Snow is supposed to continue falling in varying intensities throughout the day, heaviest in the morning and tapering in the late afternoon, with low visibility. Commutes are expected to be a bit longer, and flights may grind to a halt, Bloomberg reports. A Winter Storm Warning continues in the city until 7 p.m., when it turns into a Winter Storm Watch for the rest of Tuesday, according to the National Weather Service. The National Weather Service also predicts that snow will turn into a wintry mix of sleet and rain late Tuesday Evening. FREE AppDownload
We really like this Venn Diagram tweeted by economist Duncan Weldon. Duncan Weldon At the moment, everyone's focused on the group in the center, the Fragile Five, since each of those have unique domestic stories threatening their growth status. The circle on the right, the BRICS, is the old grouping of hot emerging market. The circle on the left, the MINT countries, are the new hotness. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Joshua RobertsU.S. Federal Reserve Vice Chair Janet Yellen testifies during a Senate Banking Committee confirmation hearing on her nomination to be the next chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve, on Capitol Hill in Washington November 14, 2013. "Yellen is likely to face questioning on income inequality, the labor market, exiting QE, and the recent strains in EM." That's from Morgan Stanley chief economist Vincent Reinhart, and the "questioning" refers to the new Fed Chief's first appearance in front of the Financial Servicess Committee on February 11. But it basically describes her overall challenge. The Bernanke era will be remembered for massive economic swings, and the unusually large amount of Fed firepower it took to counteract the downturn. The Yellen is already shaping up to be more subtle and tricky. Exiting policy smoothly while pushing for a real robust labor recovery may take more finesse and creativity than what the Fed has been forced to grapple with in recent years. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS / Brendan McdermidMOSCOW (Reuters) - Investment bank Goldman Sachs Group Inc &lt;GS.N&gt; is increasing its investment in an upscale chain of fitness clubs founded by a Russian former fencer, betting lifestyle spending will grow despite an economic slowdown and slide in the rouble currency. Goldman's Special Situations Group (SSG) has been clinching bite-sized deals in Russia, backing entrepreneurs looking to capitalize on the country's rising middle class. SSG already owned 12.5 percent of the chain, called World Class. Under the latest deal, SSG and Russian bank VTB &lt;VTBR.MM&gt; will buy out a stake owned by Alfa Capital Partners, an investment unit of billionaire Mikhail Fridman's Alfa Group, and will jointly own 50 percent of the business. "We like the business, it is an established platform - one of the most well-known brands inRussia and it operates in the premium segment," said Maxim Klimov, head of Goldman's European SSG in Russia. Klimov said World Class has a loyal customer base which would give the business resilience as the economy slows. "Consumer demand may be (slowing down), but this doesn't ... change the investment thesis - it just makes the bar a little higher and we're still bullish on the long-term picture across the cycle," he said. World Class was founded by former fencer Olga Slutsker, who was inspired to open her first fitness center in 1993 by visiting a modern club in Spain which contrasted with her experience of unheated and overcrowded Russian gyms. Membership costs around $2,500 a year. SMALLER DEALS Goldman first invested in World Class in 2006 and its five-strong team has since struck a string of mainly private equity-type deals in Russia, Kazakhstan and Ukraine, favoring investments that benefit from consumer spending. SSG invests the bank's own money rather than using more traditional private equity structures which raise funds from third parties. That allows it to pursue sub-$50 million deals that would fall outside the purview of larger buyout firms, said Klimov. "Many (international private equity players) haven't made inroads here because they have large funds and need to invest large tickets," said Klimov. While U.S. buyout group TPG &lt;TPG.UL&gt; has made successful investments in Russia, rivals such as Blackstone &lt;BX.N&gt; and KKR &lt;KKR.N&gt; have stayed on the sidelines. Small deals can be highly profitable, said Klimov, noting its investment in entrepreneur Oleg Tinkov's consumer credit firm TCS &lt;TCSq.L&gt;, which went public in October. Goldman initially invested in TCS at the end of 2007 in a deal which valued the business at $100 million. TCS currently has a stock market value of nearly $2 billion. The bank also recently closed on a follow-on investment in RosEuroDevelopment, a real estate company it first invested in during 2008, he said. Goldman's other Russian investments include debt collection agency Sequoia. (Editing by Douglas Busvine and David Holmes) FREE AppDownload
ATHENS, Greece (AP) — If Golden Dawn is banned, the name National Dawn will do instead. Ilias Kassidiaris, lawmaker and spokesman for the extreme right party, has announced the founding of National Dawn, a party that would serve as a way to circumvent a possible ban on Golden Dawn. "Patriots will have a party to vote for in the next election if (authorities) go ahead with the coup to ban Golden Dawn," he told a gathering of about 3,000 Golden Dawn supporters Saturday. Kassidiaris was the keynote speaker at the Golden Dawn rally held to commemorate a 1996 incident which cost the lives of three navy officers and brought Greece and Turkey to the brink of war. Golden Dawn has been holding the rally for years at the monument dedicated to the three officers, in central Athens. While the extreme rightists dispersed peacefully, there were scuffles between leftists staging a counter-rally at Syntagma Square, a few hundred meters away outside the Greek parliament. Police had banned both right and left extremists from marching through central Athens to prevent bloody clashes between the two. The scuffles broke out when the leftists spotted a man carrying a Greek flag, attacking and injuring him slightly. Riot police used stun grenades and tear gas to disperse the crowd. The chase eventually ended at a subway station, where police again used tear gas amid protesting commuters and chased protesters through the tunnels. Protesters set fire to garbage cans and an ATM but the riot was short-lived. Police detained six persons and eventually arrested one. Golden Dawn leader Nikolaos Michaloliakos, his deputy and four other lawmakers, a third of Golden Dawn's 18-member caucus in the 300-strong Greek parliament, are behind bars pending their trial for allegedly being part of a "criminal organization." Michaloliakos was arrested last September, days after a leftist rapper was murdered by an alleged Golden Dawn member. A prosecutor's report called Golden Dawn a "criminal organization" that has engaged in attacks on people, some fatal, with migrants a favorite target. The report said Golden Dawn functioned as a top-down organization with a strict hierarchy, with Michaloliakos as a "fuehrer-like leader" who was aware of all criminal actions. Since the arrest of Michaloliakos and his acolytes, there have been calls to ban the party and Saturday's move is a contingency response to provide a legal front in case of such a ban. "We will contest the elections, whatever happens. Greek patriots have founded National Dawn, which does not include the Golden Dawn 'murderers,'" Kassidiaris said with a heavy dose of irony, referring to his imprisoned colleagues. He himself is running for mayor of Athens in the May local elections, but also faces charges similar to those of the jailed lawmakers. A formerly marginal group with neo-Nazi roots, Golden Dawn exploded in popularity amid Greece's financial crisis, a growing sense of insecurity and an expanding migrant presence. It entered Parliament for the first time in June 2012, as the No. 5 party, gaining 7 percent of the vote. Despite the jailing of its leaders, it consistently comes in third place in opinion polls, although its appeal has dropped back to single digits. ___ Associated Press journalists Vassilis Katsardis and Zacharias Ioannidis contributed to this report. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
A quick note on Russia. We've been saying that it's time to pay more attention again to the country's economic troubles. The Ruble has been getting smoked lately, and the country is suffering from many of the same forces that are dragging down other emerging markets. To that end, the latest PMI report from Russia is very poor looking. From the report: The survey’s headline figure is the HSBC Purchasing Managers’ Index™ (PMI) – a composite indicator designed to give a single-figure snapshot of operating conditions in the manufacturing economy. The PMI registered below the 50.0 no-change threshold for the sixth time in seven months in January, indicating an ongoing downturn in business conditions in the Russian goods-producing sector. Moreover, the PMI declined from 48.8 to 48.0, the lowest reading since June 2009. New orders continued to decline marginally in January, amid reports of weak underlying demand. The rate of contraction accelerated slightly to the fastest since July 2011, and international demand continued to weigh on total inflows of new work as new export business fell for the fifth month running. The current sequence of declining new export orders is the joint-longest in over four years. This chart drives home the deterioration: Markit Here's more on what's going wrong in the Russian economy from HSBC economist Alexander Morozov: “Manufacturers started the year on a minor note, the January HSBC Russia Manufacturing PMI survey found. Indeed, all key economic activity indicators point to a broad-based contraction. Notably, manufacturing output decreased for the first time since July last year. In conjunction with the reported decline in new orders, ongoing cuts in staffing, faster suppliers’ delivery times and a stronger rise in output prices, the overall picture in manufacturing looks pretty gloomy. “Importantly, consumer goods producers reported falling output levels for the first time in many months. Apparently, a sharp moderation of demand growth caught them by surprise, forcing them to increase their inventories for now. Intermediate goods producers got some support from growth in export demand that allowed them to increase output amid declining domestic demand. “Generalising the January PMI results, we see the Russian economy losing its key driver– private consumption growth. Investment demand has not recovered yet to become a new growth driver, while export demand for intermediate goods is not strong enough to offset weakness in the two other sectors. “It follows that surprisingly benign official industrial growth data for December, indeed for 2013 as a whole, will unlikely be sustained in the beginning of 2014. Manufacturers face a serious risk of recession in the coming months, we think. Partial import substitution on the back of a weaker currency and improvement in export demand could mitigate this risk.” This chart shows a 10-year look at the dollar vs. the ruble, which really drives home the weakness of late in the Russian currency. XE FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Pawel KopczysnkiA trader is pictured at his desk in front of the DAX board at the Frankfurt stock exchange September 13, 2011Heads up! It's going to be a busy day for the US economy. Via Calculated Risk, here are the big events happening today • All day, Light vehicle sales for January. The consensus is for light vehicle sales to increase to 15.7 million SAAR in January (Seasonally Adjusted Annual Rate) from 15.3 million SAAR in December. • At 9:00 AM ET, the Markit US PMI Manufacturing Index for January. The consensus is for a decrease to 53.9 from 55.0 in December. • At 10:00 AM, the ISM Manufacturing Index for January. The consensus is for a decrease to 56.0 from 57.0 in December. The ISM manufacturing index indicated expansion in December at 57.0%. The employment index was at 56.9%, and the new orders index was at 64.2%.• Also at 10:00 AM, Construction Spending for December. The consensus is for no change in construction spending.  We'll be covering all the data here LIVE at Business Insider. FREE AppDownload
It finally happened! For the first time in 53 months, the Greek manufacturing sector indicated growth in January. Things still aren't great. Prices are weak and industry continues to shed jobs, but this is still a pretty remarkable milestone from the depths of the contraction. Markit FREE AppDownload
All you need to know about how well German manufacturing did in January is in this chart. Speaks for itself. Markit FREE AppDownload
France's manufacturing industry continues to be in contraction mode, according to the just released PMI survey for January. The index went from 47.3 to 49.0, which is below the crucial 50 level. However, this is improvement to a 4-month higher, so perhaps the trend is a reason to be happy. Here's the stub summary: Markit FREE AppDownload
Italian manufacturing is looking like a mixed bag. The official Manufacturing PMI number just came in at 53.1, down slightly from 53.3, and also slightly below expectations. However, these are pretty minor moves, the general trend is that Italy remains in growth, which is no guarantee, given how weak everything's been. Here's the summary Markit FREE AppDownload
Not all of the economic stories in Europe are so bad. Spain's Manufacturing PMI just hit a 41-month high. Here's the summary: Markit FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yuriko Nakao Good morning! A busy week is at hand. We're in the midst of getting PMI manufacturing data from around the world, and beyond that there's a big slew of economic data that will be coming out. We're also in the midst of a significant bout of global market volatility. To start things off, Japan's Nikkei has officially entered "correction" territory after falling 1.98% last night. The index is now down over 10% year to date. Meanwhile, we're seeing some weakness today in both the Turkish Lira and the South African Rand. Over the weekend we got weak Chinese manufacturing data, factor that's likely to further weigh on these emerging market currencies. Meanwhile in Europe, we've seen German stocks go modestly negative after initially starting higher. Italy is also down slightly. FREE AppDownload
