The U.S. central bank trimmed its quantitative easing program to $75 billion per month, from $85 billion, at a much anticipated policy meeting last month, reducing its extraordinary support for the U.S. economy. "It's good that we did it," Plosser, a hawkish Fed official, told reporters on the sidelines of a conference. But "if the economy continues to grow and strengthen I think that there's no reason why we shouldn't want to consider speeding the process up if we can," he said. "I have no problem with gradually unwinding it, but my preference would be to move a little quicker and end it sooner rather than later," Plosser added. (Reporting by Jonathan Spicer; Editing by Dan Grebler) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Marion County Sheriff's Department /HandoutMarijuana plants found at the rented home of former fugitive Aubrey Lee Price in Marion County, Florida, is shown in this undated handout photo courtesy of the Marion County Sheriff's Department.More than 200 marijuana plants were found at the rented Florida home of a former Georgia bank director captured this week after vanishing for 18 months under suspicion of embezzling $21 million, authorities said on Friday. The Marion County Sheriff's Department discovered the plants on Wednesday at a mobile home rented by Aubrey Lee Price, 47, in Ocala, Florida, less than 80 miles northwest of Orlando, department spokesman James Pogue told Reuters. A day earlier, Price, a former director of Montgomery Bank &amp; Trust, a small bank in Ailey, Georgia, was arrested near Brunswick, Georgia, when authorities noticed his pickup truck windows appeared to be tinted too darkly to comply with state law. Price had disappeared more than a year earlier, just before he was indicted in Georgia in July 2012 on one count of bank fraud, which carries a maximum sentence of 30 years in prison and a $1 million fine. He left behind a written confession and a note for family and friends saying he planned to kill himself, authorities said. His wife believed he was dead, her attorney John Holt said on Thursday. Price had recently been living at the Florida property and the landlord called police after spotting several marijuana plants growing in the garage, according to a police report. A deputy saw several bright lights and "tall green plants" believed to be marijuana in the garage, the report said. After obtaining a search warrant, investigators discovered a total of 225 marijuana plants in the garage and mobile home, the police report said. No charges have yet been filed against Price in connection with the marijuana, Pogue said. Price, who was charged with giving false identification at the time of his arrest this week, was ordered held in police custody until a detention hearing set for Monday in Savannah, court records showed. Price previously controlled an investment group that put $10 million into Montgomery Bank &amp; Trust, according to the federal indictment. After being named a bank director, he "fraudulently obtained over $21 million of MB&amp;T funds, which he then misappropriated, embezzled and lost in speculative trading and other investing," the indictment said. In an effort to hide the fraud, Price provided bank officials with fabricated account statements, the indictment said. Regulators later shut down the bank's two branches. Price was indicted in New York last year on securities and wire fraud charges connected to the scheme. Before his arrest on Tuesday, Price was last seen boarding a ferry in Key West, Florida, in June 2012. Investigators at the time speculated that he either committed suicide or fled to Venezuela. Last year, his wife asked a Florida judge to declare her husband deceased for estate planning purposes and will now seek to have the declaration set aside, Holt said. (Editing by Barbara Goldberg and Andrew Hay) FREE AppDownload
William Thomas Cain/Getty ImagesBernie Kerik, a former New York City Police Commisioner who was sentenced to four years in prison in February 2010.Bernie Kerik, Jack Abramoff and Dennis Kozlowski—three of the most high-profile men to be on the inside—smash the perception that prison life is anything like "Club Fed." If there were ever a person who might be able to clue you in on what life in a white-collar—or minimum-security or “country club”—prison was actually like, it was this guy. You know this guy. How many former New York City police commissioners, former overseers of Rikers Island, former consultants for U.S. security in Iraq or former almost-heads of the Department of Homeland Security are there in the world who ended up in the slammer? I thought so too. I wanted to find out what life was like for Bernard “Bernie” Kerik—what he ate, where he slept, who came to visit. But when I finally got to his prison in August of 2010, seven months into his sentence, I thought I was in the wrong place. After a convoluted five-hour journey that required trains and automobiles and the kindness of his pal John Picciano—a cop who worked as Bernie’s chief of staff both at Rikers and when he was police commissioner and remained so devoted that he had visited him in prison more than 60 times already—we pulled up to a building in western Maryland that looked like my high school. There wasn’t a single guard out front. No one searched us. There wasn’t even a metal detector. I’d been to prisons before, almost all of them maximum-security and wretched; certainly none that looked like this. The Federal Correctional Institution in Cumberland, Maryland, has both medium- and minimum-security prisoners. Its visiting room is spotless and sprawling, with sparkling windows and walls that are decorated with quilts handmade by inmates. Grant Cornett/DuJourBernie Kerik lost more than 80 pounds during his stay in prison.Enter Bernie Kerik, in moss-green khakis, matching long-sleeved button-down shirt and work boots, the outfit he would wear most every day for three years and 11 days. Kerik was the guy who previously ran one of the worst jails on earth (trust me, there are no quilts on the walls at Rikers) and the guy who was chosen by George W. Bush to be the head of the Department of Homeland Security, until it all hit the fan. First there was the illegal-immigrant-nanny brouhaha. Then the real dominoes fell. By November 2007, the former top cop was facing a 16-count indictment for, among other things, lying to the IRS and to the White House. He was also accused of accepting renovations to his home from contractors who wanted to work in New York. He ended up pleading guilty to eight charges, including tax fraud, in a plea bargain and was sentenced to four years. The last time I had seen Bernie, we shared an excellent Barolo and a couple of steaks at a fine joint in Midtown Manhattan. Like many journalists, I came to know him as the kind of dude who was forever entertaining, always plugged-in and seemingly invincible. Now he was in prison. I visited him not even halfway through his incarceration. Already, he looked like a different man, and not in a bad way. He was working out like a maniac, jumping rope, running and walking four miles a day and doing anywhere from 600 to 1,200 push-ups. Bernie Kerik looked like a bull and was 50 pounds leaner. (By the time he was released in May at the age of 57, he was down 80 pounds from his pre-prison weight of 260.) “So which quilt did you make?” I asked. He gave me the look I deserved for that question. And then he laughed. I knew his spirit had not been crushed when I gingerly brought up the quilt topic again later and he lasered me with his green eyes (that just happened to match his prison outfit) and growled: “Enough with the fucking quilts.” OK, so he was still Bernie. And this was still prison. But what I really wanted to know—what was life actually like on the inside? Every time another big one goes away—Bernie Kerik or Bernie Madoff or Dennis Kozlowski (the Tyco guy with the $6,000 shower curtain) or Martha Stewart or Mickey Sherman (the once hotshot defense lawyer) or any of the Wall Street types who got busted in the recession—the inevitable questions arise: Did they go to Club Fed? To what the public perceives as “country club” prisons? While there used to be a time when you could, in fact, find tennis courts at prison (specifically, the infamous now-closed Federal Prison Camp Eglin, which inspired the name Club Fed), “those stories were always exaggerated,” as CNBC’s John Carney wrote in a story on prison treatment. Plus, sentencing guidelines for “white-collar crimes” have only gotten worse for offenders, the result, as Carney noted, “of politics and public outrage largely tied to stock-market losses.” *** As Kerik explains it—and I had to keep reminding myself that he was once a prominent authority figure in the system—”there are four or five classifications for the BOP [Bureau of Prisons]. You have super-maximum security, if there’s a terrorist or a super-violent criminal. You have maximum security, which is the next level down. After max, you have medium.” That’s where Bernie Madoff is, by the way. “Then you have low. Then you have minimum.” To be eligible for a minimum security “camp,” your sentence has to be less than 10 years (or has gotten to under 10 years) and you need to be considered “nonviolent.” In other words, if you’re going to prison, this is where you want to go. When details of these camps trickle out, they rarely seem terrifying. Mickey Sherman, who spent part of 2011 in the Otisville, New York, camp for tax evasion, said last year that the most dramatic part of prison took place when inmates watched American Idol and argued over who got kicked off. Sometimes the accommodations can seem downright quaint. Take the five months Martha Stewart served in the Alderson, West Virginia, women’s prison, where she taught a yoga class and created an entire nativity scene out of ceramics. Her minimum-security prison—complete with “cottages” and tree-lined gates—wasn’t nicknamed “Camp Cupcake” for nothing. Grant Cornett/DuJourAfter former hedge fund manager Raj Rajaratnam was sentenced to 11 years (which was the longest sentence ever imposed for insider trading), one prison insider told the New York Post he was “reigning like a king,” with a “personal manservant” who doted upon him with the hopes of becoming his driver after they’re released. People eat these stories up. But the truth is slightly more complicated: Because of his type 2 diabetes, Rajaratnam is staying at a federally run medical facility and in need of a kidney transplant. No picnic there. But if fellow inmates wanted to treat him favorably, who would stop them? Not all former CEOs have it the same. There’s the case of Kozlowski, the disgraced head of Tyco who received a sentence of eight and one third to 25 years for multiple crimes, including the illegal receipt of $81 million in bonuses. He’s something of an authority on the differences between prisons, having seen the inside of two very different institutions. During his stay at the maximum-security Downstate Correctional Facility, north of New York City, Kozlowski didn’t go outside for eight and a half months, according to the forthcoming book Taking Down the Lion, which covers his rise and fall. In 2006, he moved to Mid-State, a medium-security prison (where he was housed in the same unit as the rapper Ja Rule), and passed the years “doing laundry, reading hundreds of books, tutoring other inmates,” even teaching himself to paint. While incarcerated, he wrote to the book’s author, Catherine S. Neal, that he most looked forward to “doing what free people do. Close a bathroom door, go to the store, drive a car, open a door, call on a telephone, touch a computer.” He closed his letter by saying, “Simple pleasures and the freedom to enjoy them are more precious than you can imagine.” That’s why no matter what the public perception is, it’s not a good idea to call this a cakewalk to people on the inside. “That whole Club Fed mentality, that shit that they portray in the press, is complete nonsense,” Kerik says. Kerik, who got out in May but was still wearing an ankle-bracelet during his home detention when I spoke to him again by phone recently, did his time at Cumberland, one of 81 minimum- and/or medium-security prisons in the U.S. He was, by all accounts, including those of prison officials I spoke with, a model prisoner. (If he hadn’t been, he wouldn’t have gotten 11 months shaved off his time.) His law-enforcement background and his very conservative political views have always been a large part of who he is—even after he was sent to prison for breaking the law. *** But a larger-than-life persona is, apparently, a tricky thing in the Big House. And being famous and a former cop is a double whammy. “Till Bernie got there, I was the celebrity of the prison,” says one of Bernie’s best prison buddies, Jack Abramoff, the well-known Washington lobbyist who was infamously sent away on corruption charges in 2006 and whose time in the slammer overlapped with Kerik’s by about six weeks, which was long enough for them to bond. Kevin Spacey played Abramoff in the movie Casino Jack and even came to Cumberland to do some research. “You don’t want to be the celebrity of the prison, by the way,” says Abramoff. Another lesson he shares: “It’s never good to draw attention to yourself in a prison. Nothing good is gonna result from that.” He remembers his fellow inmates gathering around the television to view the Bill Moyers special about his life. “It seemed like the entire prison took time to watch, and those are the kinds of things you don’t want.” Perhaps it’s not unusual for guys with similar backgrounds to team up with one another. It was Abramoff who showed Kerik the ropes, introduced him around. “He had a disadvantage coming in, given his occupational background,” Abramoff recalls with some understatement. “The guys who I mainly hung out with, you know, the white-collar-slash-whatever folks, they thought he was great. I mean, he was interesting, intellectual, urbane, funny. And the other guys, I think, were just still kind of figuring out, ‘What is he all about? What are we looking at here?’ Subsequently, they all determined he was a good guy.” But there was a learning curve. I asked him if everyone knew who Kerik was when he got there. “They know everything!” Abramoff replies. “They either know or they find out. Plus, they have an e-mail system now. There aren’t too many secrets in a prison.” Grant Cornett/DuJourHowever, there are, I have come to find out, plenty of myths. The first is that white-collar prisons are filled with, well, white-collar prisoners. At Cumberland, the majority of inmates were drug dealers whose sentences were less than 10 years. “At least while I was there,” says Abramoff, “about 90 percent of the drug dealers were inner-city drug dealers, and some of them were violent folks.” Those who were true “white-collar” criminals were few and far between. The second great myth is that the famous guys get better treatment. In fact, the more “high profile” you are—unlike in the non-prison world—the fewer perks you may receive. No one wants to be accused of favoritism. This encompasses all sorts of things, from which facility you’re sent to—though there were several minimum-security prisons within a hour’s drive of Kerik’s home in New Jersey, he was shipped to western Maryland, where his wife and kids had to travel 10 hours round-trip to see him—to what happens when a loved one dies. Abramoff’s mother passed away while he was incarcerated “and almost everything I asked for the answer was no. You’re supposed to get a deathbed visit, and I asked for that and the answer was no. Then I wasn’t allowed to go to her funeral.” Abramoff says he understood why. “They feared that if I went out—and correctly, by the way—the media would have descended on wherever I was, and then they would have to be answering the question, ‘Why did you guys let him out of prison?’ And they didn’t want to deal with that. So the price was to basically say, ‘Sorry, Charlie.’<U+2009>” He does add with some bitterness: “I didn’t see anybody else denied the chance to go to his parent’s funeral. And I was there long enough that I saw a lot of people go to funerals. Including a lot of pretty vicious guys.” One of the most interesting characteristics about a prison with minimum security is how minimum the security really is. At Cumberland, the doors are locked only at night. As Kerik explains it, you’re basically on an “honor system.” You could pretty much leave at any time, but if you do, you’re looking at another seven years tacked on to your sentence. In other words, says Bernie, “they’re doing easy time now, and the light is at the end of the tunnel. So it doesn’t make sense [to run away].” During my visit with Bernie, we settle around a table with mauve plastic chairs. This is kind of nice, I say. “Compared to what?” says Bernie. It’s early evening, and dinner has already been served to the inmates, but Bernie doesn’t eat any because it is turkey pot pie. (“Allegedly,” he jokes.) It turns out that a little garden patch I saw on our drive in is a source for some of Bernie’s more edible meals. The inmates who are in charge of the “farm” often bring him corn, squash, zucchini and tomatoes, which he mixes with rice that he cooks in the microwaves in the laundry room and visiting room. Besides working out, there are other ways to pass the time, and to hear Kerik tell it, these activities are essential. “There’s no golf course or tennis courts. There may be basketball, baseball and a workout area. But you have got to give these guys something to do. If they’re locked up 24 hours a day, without their families, without any contact with outside society, you can’t expect them to do nothing but rot.” Cumberland actually appears spartan compared with other prisons. “Some of them have weight-lifting equipment, athletic equipment, movies, big video libraries, and Cumberland didn’t really have any of that,” says Abramoff. “But the important things—safety, cleanliness, basic needs—were met. I mean, it is prison.” *** When Kerik first got here, he was hoping to get Jack Abramoff’s old job in the prison chaplain’s office. Abramoff had what he calls “the best job there,” working in the nondenominational chapel, handing out prayer books, setting up the room for services and so on. He even brushed up on his piano skills. He had to earn the job by doing dishes in the kitchen for six months, “which was really quite horrible.” And he wanted to give his cushy job to his friend when he left, but the BOP put the kibosh on that. So Kerik mopped floors, which he preferred to dishwashing. Plus, this came with an additional perk: access to the kitchen and to his favored breakfast of three or four eggs, eaten raw. After that, Kerik moved into a job in the library. He also wrote up a storm. There was a blog and a Facebook account (which he since shut down), showing photos of his shocking weight loss. And a Twitter account, of course. Beyond all of that, he wrote 1,940 pages of his next book, a continuation of his autobiography that starts exactly where his first book ended: September 14, 2001, when President Bush came to Ground Zero with his bullhorn. Grant Cornett/DuJourIf he chooses to write about his prison time, there will be a couple of notable cameos. He’s been visited a few times by Geraldo Rivera, who arrived by private helicopter. And by New York congressman Peter King, who made the six-hour drive to check in with Kerik about how he was doing and for some light discussion about politics. But what I really want to know about, beyond the food and the bonding and the living in a cramped cubicle where he barely had enough room to get dressed without bumping into someone else, is what surprised him, the man who knew jails better than anyone, about prison time. What was the most shocking thing about being on the other side of the bars? “The punishment should be the deprivation of freedom and liberty,” he says. “But once you arrive at prison—I was shocked by the psychological punishment.” This is unexpected. “You are constantly berated, degraded, demoralized,” he says. “You’re herded like cattle.” The isolation from family also takes its toll. “You can’t show your child love and support and guidance in absentia. You damn sure can’t do it in a two-hour visit in a visiting room. You can’t discipline your child while you’re in the system, because the last thing you need is for that last conversation you have with your child to be a negative one,” he says. “You cannot fathom the pain, the heartache, that the system causes parents and their kids. Nobody gets it. Nobody understands it.” Kerik may be out now, but that doesn’t mean the prison system has left his thoughts. In fact, he has more ideas than ever about reform, specifically changing the policies about giving prisoners “good-time incentives” and the use of solitary confinement. According to Kerik, a prisoner can get solitary for smoking cigarettes. “I know how the system is supposed to work, and I know what the system is supposed to accomplish,” he says. “I know it can work the way it’s supposed to work. But it doesn’t.” Kerik also points to some of the system’s punishments as too severe. “To stand in a room and talk to a guy that had a first-time offense, one kilo of cocaine, no violence, and then was given 27 years? Are you kidding? I didn’t know that kind of stuff happened. Like, how could that be?” But there was another revelation, one that’s going to stick around longer than memories of vegetable-patch dinners, longer than his prison friendships, probably even longer than his weight loss. “I’ve come to realize being sentenced in the U.S. criminal justice system, for anything, is a life sentence,” he says. “It’s not about the time they give you. You receive a punishment of imprisonment and then a lifelong sentence of collateral punishment.” None of which sounds like an offering at Club Fed.  Related: The Secret Lives of Plastic Surgeons’ WivesAustere, Ascetic Retreats: The New Luxury?Going to Rehab, Hamptons-Style This article originally appeared at DuJour.  Copyright 2014. Follow DuJour on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Lowndes County Sheriff’s Office/Glynn County Detention Center via The New York Daily NewsAubrey Lee PriceATLANTA (AP) — Authorities suspect a former Georgia banker who disappeared 18 months ago and who faces allegations he stole millions from investors was growing marijuana in a home in Florida. Aubrey Lee Price, 47, turned up earlier this week when he was arrested during a traffic stop on Interstate 95, in the coastal Georgia city of Brunswick. Price vanished in June 2012 and faces federal charges in Georgia and New York related to accusations he stole millions from the bank he ran and from investors. When Price disappeared, investigators said he sent a rambling confession letter to his family and acquaintances saying he had lost millions of dollars and planned to kill himself by jumping from a ferry in Florida. It's not clear exactly what he has been doing for the past 18 months. He has told authorities he had worked odd jobs and as a migrant worker, and police now believe he was renting a house in Florida and growing marijuana. A Florida man called authorities Wednesday to report finding marijuana plants in the garage of a home he rented to a man he knew as Jason, according to a police report from the Marion County Sheriff's Office in Ocala, Fla. Sheriff's deputies removed 225 marijuana plants, 85 from the garage and 140 more from a mobile home on the property, the report said. Authorities found a variety of identification documents in the home — including a Social Security card, a passport and Georgia ID — with Price's photo but a different name and determined Price was renting the home, sheriff's Capt. James Pogue said. The report named Price as the suspect in the drug investigation, and Pogue said detectives from Marion County plan to travel to Georgia to interview Price. It wasn't clear how long the home had been rented, and the owner of the home didn't immediately return a phone call Friday from The Associated Press. Price told authorities his family didn't know he was still alive and that he had returned to Georgia to renew the tag on his truck, an FBI spokesman said Wednesday. He was arrested Tuesday on Interstate 95 in the coastal city of Brunswick when Glynn County sheriff's deputies pulled him over because they believed his window tinting was too dark, Sheriff E. Neal Jump said. During the traffic stop, it became clear to deputies that Price was giving them false information about his identity, Jump said. Upon further investigation, they determined his true identity and discovered he was wanted by the FBI. When Price vanished, he had short, blondish hair. When he was arrested, his mug shot showed him with long, dark hair and facial hair. Federal prosecutors have said Price raised $40 million from his bank and 115 investors, and lost much of the money, and authorities have said they believe Price disappeared with up to $17 million of investors' money. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
Long-Term Thinking lived an illustrious life since the start of the Industrial Revolution, when for the first time, people could think about more than their next meal. But poor incentives and the rise of 24/7 media chipped away at his health. The final blow came Monday, when a trader on CNBC warned -- which has occurred on average every 11 months over the last century -- it could be "devastating" for investors. "That's it," Long-Term Thinking whispered from his hospital bed. "There's no more room for me here." He died soon after Bloomberg published its daily tally of how much the net worths of the world's billionaires changed in the previous 24 hours. Long-Term Thinking endured the Great Depression, world wars, and spiking interest rates in the 1980s. But the last five years proved too much, as he fought for relevance with cable news, Twitter, and derivatives. He was hospitalized in May 2010 after pundits lost their collective minds over a "flash crash" that made a few stock prices freeze up for 17 minutes. "Computers froze for seventeen minutes and they literally think American industry vanished," Long-Term Thinking told his psychiatrist. "These people are insane." Fifty years ago, the average stock was held for more than eight years, according to LPL Financial. By 2010, the average stock was owned for five days. Fifteen years ago, S&amp;P 500 companies spent more than 40% of available cash flow on capital investments. That fell to just over 25% by 2007, with the difference going mostly to share buybacks, likely to boost option-based compensation. "Our culture has an endemic problem of short-term thinking," Long Term said in his final speech in November. "Years have become months, months have become days, days have become milliseconds, and milliseconds have become careers. However much you think you're winning in the short run, you're losing in the long run." Long-Term frequently blamed media. Louis Rukeyser's Wall Street Week went off the air the same year Mad Money, Jim Cramer's daily investment show, debuted. The number of important financial events hasn't changed since Rukeyser could cover a whole week's news in an hour -- just the amount of drivel, gossip, nonsense, and hyperbole. It was too much for Long-Term Thinking to handle. Once the bastion of rational thought, he became the laughingstock of the financial world, repeatedly teased for his indifference to candlestick charts and the 50-day moving average. Some mourned his passing. Peter Burton, a hedge fund manager from Greenwich, Conn., said, "It's sad to see him go. Everyone in my field knows he was right. With our own money, we think years out in the future. But with clients' money, I have three months to be correct, or I'm out of a job." Shaking his head, he continued: "The dirtiest secret in finance is that few of us are incentivized to do what's right. Your pension fund, your 401(k), and your kids' college funds probably have a time horizon measured in decades. But you pay me based on how I perform against my peers every 90 days. It's such a joke." In lieu of flowers, his family asks that you turn off CNBC and stop checking your brokerage account. FREE AppDownload
Laughing onlookers videotaped a terrified UPS delivery man being chased by a wild turkey. After circling a nearby FedEx truck, the UPS man was eventually able to get back into his truck thanks to the help of a good Samaritan and no thanks to the bystanders taping. Last month, UPS said it was unable to deliver packages before Christmas due to capacity constraints. FedEx also said some packages would be delayed. Watch (via CNN New Day Saturday):  FREE AppDownload
We quickly get used to the latest technology. And we often forget how fast things are moving and how amazing everything is. So it's helpful to be reminded. This is a picture of an IBM hard drive being loaded onto an airplane in 1956. According to @HistoricalPics, which tweeted the picture, it's a 5 mega-byte drive, and it weighed more than 2,000 pounds. Old Picture Of The Day To put that in context, 55 years later, the weakest iPhone 5S has a 16 gigabyte drive, about 3,200-times as big. It weighs a quarter of a pound. The IBM hard drive could have stored exactly one iPhone picture. Robert Mann suggests that the drive in the picture is an IBM 350, which was announced in 1956 and, per Wikipedia, actually only had 3.75 megabytes of storage. Also per Wikipedia, the 350 was available for rent...for $3,200 per month. Here's how it worked: Its design was motivated by the need for real time accounting in business. The 350 stored 5 million 6 characters (3.75 megabytes).[7] It had fifty 24-inch (610 mm) diameter disks with 100 recording surfaces. Each surface had 100 tracks. The disks spun at 1200 RPM. Data transfer rate was 8,800 characters per second. An access mechanism moved a pair of heads up and down to select a disk pair (one down surface and one up surface) and in and out to select a recording track of a surface pair.  It will be interesting to see where we are in another 55 years. SEE ALSO: When Things Go Wrong At 20,000 Feet -- One Of The Most Remarkable Survival Stories Ever FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Fred ProuserCarlyle Group co-founder and Managing Director David Rubenstein(Reuters) - Carlyle Group LP is preparing to launch its first two publicly listed mutual funds, according to a regulatory filing by the latest alternative asset manager seeking to offer its investment platform to retail investors in this way. Carlyle Enhanced Commodity Real Return Fund will mainly invest in commodity sectors including energy and metals, while Carlyle Global Core Allocation Fund will invest across equities, debt, real estate, commodities and currencies using primarily exchange-traded funds, according to the filing published this week by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. A Carlyle spokesman declined to comment beyond the filing. Developing mutual funds has historically been challenging for private equity firms because the average buyout fund is illiquid, with a typical life span of 10 years. But as these firms diversified into relatively more liquid alternative assets such as credit and hedge funds, they have sought to widen their investor base beyond institutional investors. "I do think that the retail investors are just a lot bigger pile of money than all the other piles of money we can get from investors," Carlyle co-founder and co-CEO William Conway told a Goldman Sachs financial services conference last month. Rival Blackstone Group LP launched its first alternative investment-focused mutual fund last summer. Dubbed Blackstone Alternative Multi-Manager Fund, it offers exposure to the bread-and-butter of hedge fund investing such as troubled debt, commodities speculation and shorting stocks. KKR &amp; Co LP launched its first publicly listed mutual fund, KKR Alternative High Yield in 2012, investing in risky debt such as junk bonds. Last July, it launched its first listed closed-end fund, KKR Income Opportunities Fund, which is also investing in debt. Both Carlyle's mutual funds will be open-end funds. The number of shares in an open-end fund can be indefinite and shares are sold by the fund company. In closed-end funds, there is a finite number of shares. Alternative asset managers have developed other ways to raise money from non-institutional investors. These include business development companies (BDCs), which pay at least 90 percent of annual earnings as dividends to avoid corporate taxation under provisions passed by Congress in 1980. They are also turning increasingly to so-called feeder funds, special purpose vehicles that gather money from individual high net-worth investors or family offices before investing in alternative assets such as private equity funds. Carlyle launched its first BDC called Carlyle GMS Finance Inc last year to lend to midsize U.S. companies. Using investment firm Central Park Group LLC, Carlyle has also launched a captive feeder fund to allow individuals with net worth in excess of $1 million to commit as little as $50,000 to its private equity fund portfolio. Carlyle Enhanced Commodity Real Return Fund will use Vermillion Asset Management LLC, the commodities-trading hedge fund manager that Carlyle took over in 2012, as advisor, according to the filing. Washington, D.C.-based Carlyle, founded in 1987 by Conway, David Rubenstein and Daniel D'Aniello, had $185 billion in assets under management as of the end of September. InvestmentNews, a newspaper for financial advisers published by Crain Communications Inc, first reported on the regulatory filing on Carlyle's mutual funds earlier on Friday on its website. (Reporting by Greg Roumeliotis in New York; Additional reporting by Linda Stern; Editing by David Gregorio) FREE AppDownload
s_bukley / Shutterstock.comBeauty is not subjective. Contrary to popular belief, men and women generally agree on who is and who is not physically attractive, even across different cultures. What makes someone enjoyable to look at?  High cheekbones, fuller lips, big eyes, and a thin chin are associated with sexiness in women, whereas a big jaw and broad chin are preferred in men. Smooth skin, shiny hair, and facial symmetry are also key aspects of beauty.   According to various studies, these provide measures of health, good genes, intelligence, and success. More often than not, the world rewards beauty. Here's why it's better to be hot:  #1 Beautiful people are viewed as healthier. Facial symmetry, considered the beacon of beauty, can be perceived as a sign of health, even if it is not related to actual health. In an Australian study, researchers morphed photographs of young adults so that their faces were perfectly symmetrical. In general, the symmetric version of each face — both male and female — received higher health ratings than the normal image. Individuals with asymmetric faces were perceived as unhealthy. #2 Beautiful people are actually healthier.  Although the link between facial symmetry and real health is weak, there is some evidence that individuals with more distinct facial features, considered less attractive, are more susceptible to disease, parasites, and other illnesses. Specifically, in a study of 17-year-olds, researchers found that facial distinctiveness was linked to poor health in both men and women, either during childhood or adolescence. Facial averageness, on the other hand, was linked to good health. One theory is that distinctive facial traits are tied to chromosomal disorders. The preference for average faces may have evolved as a way of identifying a mate with good genes.  #3 It's easier for beautiful people to find mates.  Men seek attractive women as mates because good looks signal youth, health, and reproductive fitness.  #4 Beautiful people are more intelligent.  University of New Mexico researchers found that general intelligence is positively linked to body symmetry, a characteristic that is indicative of attractive qualities like health, social dominance, and fitness-related biological traits.   #5 Beautiful people are more persuasive.  Good-looking people can use their sex appeal to command attention and to get ahead, say in a job interview or when asking for a promotion. Attractive people are more persuasive, in part, because they also possess or develop key personality traits — like intelligence and strong social skills — that make them more effective communicators. Researchers also found that compared to unattractive speakers, attractive speakers were much more fluent talkers.   #6 Companies with good-looking executives have higher sales.   In a study of nearly 300 Dutch advertising agencies, economists found that firms with better-looking executives had higher revenues. Overall productivity, and resulting sales, were greater in companies with more attractive managers, partly because firms with more attractive workers have the competitive advantage when client interactions are involved.  #7 Beautiful people have an advantage in politics.  Beautiful people have the upper-hand in politics, according to a study in Finland which found that both male and female political candidates who look better than their competitors are more successful. A better individual beauty score was associated with an increase of 20% in the number of votes for the average non-incumbent parliamentary candidate. Perceived competence and trustworthiness had less of an effect. The study authors suggests that voters favor good-looking candidates because they enjoy watching them and they fare better in social situations.  #8 Beautiful people are perceived as more likeable and trustworthy.  Beautiful people are typically treated better by others. In a study from Harvard University, researchers found that wearing makeup, shown to enhance a woman's attractiveness, boosted people's perceptions of that subject's competence, likability, attractiveness, and trustworthiness. FREE AppDownload
Touching The VoidIn 1985, two British climbers, Joe Simpson and Simon Yates, became the first people to ascend the west face of Siula Grande, a 21,000-foot peak in the Peruvian Andes. What happened next is one of the most remarkable and inspiring survival stories ever. It's also an extraordinary example of self-reliance, decision-making under duress, and force of will. One of the climbers, Joe Simpson, wrote a book about the experience called "Touching The Void." In 2003, the story was made into a movie directed by Kevin Macdonald. The movie was narrated by Simpson and Yates, with actors re-enacting the events in Peru and the Alps. Using screenshots from the movie, I've told an abridged version of the story below. You can also buy the book or movie here, or watch the movie on Netflix. FREE AppDownload
AmazonWe asked some of our favorite analysts, traders, and economists across Wall Street for the best books they read over the past year. The responses vary — from works of fiction to nonfiction titles, both new and old. Some deal with finance, but most don't, at least directly. FREE AppDownload
In spite of a number of positive economic indicators out of the Eurozone (see example), credit growth remains the area's Achilles' heel. The latest private sector loan growth aggregate from the ECB shows an annual decline of 1.8% (adjusted for sales and securitization - see press release). Here is what it looks like for the area's households and corporations Sober look As a result the broad money supply growth has weakened as well, now well below long-term historical averages. Sober Look Related to this weakness in credit growth, the area's disinflationary pressures do not seem to be abating, with the latest CPI aggregate below 1%. In Spain for example consumer prices have been basically flat for the past two years. Sober Look With credit contraction remaining one of the key risks to the fragile economic expansion and inflation running below 1%, many economists are calling for the ECB to take further action (discussed here). ISI Research: - Eurozone growth is still very slow, and inflation is MIA, so nominal GDP growth is minuscule. ECB could and should do more. But given the historical lack of urgency at the ECB (particularly with the usual resistance from the Bundesbank), it may take some time for the central bank to "adjust" its policy. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/StringerSHANGHAI (Reuters) - China pledged further support for its ailing solar power industry on Saturday as the government seeks to revive a sector struggling with overcapacity and falling prices. The State Council, China's cabinet, said in July that the country aimed to more than quadruple solar power generating capacity to 35 gigawatts by 2015 in an apparent bid to ease a glut in the domestic solar power industry. The State Council, in a statement published on its website, said the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology was taking measures to "promote the healthy development of the photovoltaic industry". The ministry, it said, was implementing the July directive by supporting consolidation in the industry, drafting guidelines for mergers and acquisitions and promoting standardization. It said the ministry was encouraging technological innovation, especially related to decentralized solar power installations not connected to the power grid. It was also supporting research and development efforts for batteries that can store solar electricity. The ministry sought to improve standardization and ensure "orderly competition" in the industry, the statement said. The State Council said the solar industry had enjoyed a recovery in 2013. Total installed solar power generating capacity increased by around 8 GW, of which 6 GW were in power plants and 2 GW were in decentralized instillations, the statement said, citing preliminary estimates from the China Photovoltaic Industry Alliance. Still, Chinese solar equipment producers LDK Solar Co Ltd &lt;LDK.N&gt; and JA Solar Holdings Co Ltd &lt;JASO.O&gt; are teetering on the edge of bankruptcy. China's support for its solar industry has been a source of trade friction. The United States and European Union have accused China of dumping underpriced solar panels on foreign markets and China has responded with anti-subsidy duties of its own. (Reporting by Gabriel Wildau; Editing by Ron Popeski) FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVJeff Saut"Year-end letters are difficult to write because there is always a tendency to discuss the year gone by or, worse, attempt to forecast the coming year," said Raymond James' Jeff Saut earlier this week. But perhaps begrudgingly, Saut offered his forecast anyway. He warms into it by first reminding us of the various psychological hurdles in recent years: Speaking to the news backdrop, consider this. For the past two years the markets have been confronted with numerous issues. The debt downgrade, the fiscal cliff, the sequester, the government shutdown, Dodd-Frank, rumors China would implode, the call that interest rates would skyrocket, Europe’s debt crisis, a potential U.S. debt default, Fukushima, the Arab Spring, Iran, North Korea, Iran, Egypt, Syria, etc., yet the equity markets traded higher. In contrast, except for Obamacare, this year could be relatively, news-wise, trouble free. Moreover, bond yields have already risen and are unlikely to move much higher in the short/intermediate term, tapering has been announced, GDP and earnings guidance has been raised, there is more political cooperation (budget deal, Yellen, WTO deal, EU bank accord, bailouts over, Mexico reform, etc.), the American Industrial Renaissance is alive and well, our oil independence is almost assured, and the central banks remain accommodative. To this accommodative point, it has been proven that quantitative easing lifts stock prices; and despite the taper announcement, the Fed’s balance sheet should still expand by some $435 billion in the new year (front-end loaded). ...there has been a very tight correlation (R2) between the expansion of the Fed’s balance sheet and stock prices since 2009. If the Fed expands its balance sheet by another 12% over the coming year, it is conceivable the SPX could increase by another 12%. That would also be consistent with the S&amp;P’s bottom-up, operating, earnings estimate increase of ~13% year-over-year ($122.11e vs. $107.40e). And it's not just about Fed balance sheet expansion. Saut sees plenty of bullish fundamentals driving stocks higher. Plainly, the U.S. macro uncertainty is falling with the budget deficit falling to a six-year low. That glide path should extend into 2014 with the CBO projecting a further drop in 2015 to a deficit of only 2.1% of GDP. Accordingly, I think a lot of things could indeed go right in 2014. The slowdown in housing, due to the increase in mortgage rates, should reverse now that mortgage rates have stabilized. A recent data point would be Lennar’s (LEN/$39.55/Strong Buy) admission – best month of the quarter was November in terms of sales and pricing. The capital equipment cycle (cap ex) should strengthen in 2014. In talks with companies’ senior management teams, they are telling me “We have put off investments in cap ex as long as we can because ‘things’ are just plain wearing out.” Furthermore, credit conditions are improving, loan demand is slowly picking up, M&amp;A activity is increasing, dividends and buybacks are on the rise, profits are decent, inflation is contained, money is rotating out of most bond funds and (at the margin) into equity funds (given the amount of money that has flowed into bonds since 2008, this rotation has a lot further to go), the bad performance figures for 2008 are about to disappear from asset managers’ five-year track records, and the list goes on. All of this should make for interesting discussions in the new year when financial advisors meet with their clients to talk about future asset allocations. Unsurprisingly, most investors remain underinvested in equities... Saut thinks it's possible we go straight up without a meaningful sell-off for a while. As we begin 2014, I think the rally extends without much of a pullback. In fact, my sense is we could travel into the 1900 – 2000 zone on the SPX before succumbing to any meaningful correction. Right now the inflation-adjusted all-time high for the SPX is around 2060, but I doubt if we can make it there before getting some kind of “hiccup.” Currently, the SPX is better by 31.3% YTD and up about 40% from the June 2012 low without any meaningful correction. The historical median drawdown following such a rally is between 6% and 7% over the next three months and between 10% and 12% sometime during the next 12 months. And since it's one of the hottest debates in the market these days, Saut offered his position on record high profit margins. Price/Earnings (P/E) multiple expansion has contributed heavily to the upward path of the equity markets over the past few years and there has been a lot written about that. In 2014 it is doubtful P/Es will expand very much because of the tapering announcement and fears interest rates will rise. Yet even if the SPX just trades at its current P/E multiple (17x), it suggests an SPX price target of 2076 by the end of 2014 if the earnings estimates are anywhere close to the mark. Of course that brings about cries that elevated profit margins cannot remain where they are, and therefore must revert to their historic mean hurting earnings, an argument from the negative nabobs we have heard since 2010; and I just don’t believe it. Many companies are moving their IT needs to the “cloud,” which saves a huge amount of money permitting margins to stay wide. Then there is the change in the composition of goods produced in this country that has moved from low margined goods to higher margined goods like jet engines. Or, how about the accounting term “income from affiliates,” which means a parent company has a minority stake in another company that brings in income but doesn’t record revenues associated with that stake, suggesting 100% margins. So, no, I do not buy the margin compression in 2014 argument. So overall, he's bullish. Read his whole outlook at RaymondJames.com. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Dominick ReuterA police vehicle drives through a flooded street during a winter nor'easter snow storm in Scituate, Massachusetts, January 3, 2014.BOSTON/NEW YORK (Reuters) - People across the northeastern United States on Friday dug out after a heavy snowfall that grounded thousands of flights, closed schools and government offices, caused several deaths and left the region in the grip of bitter cold. Boston was hard hit by the first major winter storm of 2014, getting nearly 18 inches of snow, while some towns north of New England's largest city saw close to 2 feet of accumulation. Major cities from Washington, D.C., to Portland, Maine, were slammed, with New York's Manhattan Island getting 6 inches of snow and parts of Queens seeing more than 10 inches of fresh powder. While plows made easy work of the powdery snow to clear roads and runways, authorities warned residents to expect unusually cold weather across the Midwest and Northeast. Embarrass, Minnesota, notched a reading of minus 36 Fahrenheit (minus 38 Celsius) that stood as the lowest temperature recorded in the United States outside Alaska on Friday, according to the National Weather Service. "Temperatures tonight and tomorrow are expected to be extremely low, and dangerously so," Massachusetts Governor Deval Patrick said. "These are dangerous conditions." The forecast overnight low for Boston was minus 4F (minus 20C) while New York looked for a low of 3F (minus 16C). New York City's Department of Homeless Services went to "code blue," doubling the number of vans patrolling streets to seek people who needed shelter and streamlining the check-in process for homeless shelters. SEVERAL DEATHS REPORTED Washington received more than 2 inches of snow, Philadelphia roughly 5 inches and Hartford 7 inches. (U.S. snowfall: http://link.reuters.com/zym75v) In Cambridge, Massachusetts, just outside Boston, Tom Klein took a break from shoveling and said that a life in New England had accustomed him to harsh winter weather. "I love a good snowstorm," the 60-year-old co-owner of a small manufacturing company said. "I don't mind shoveling. I've never minded shoveling." Some 3,467 flights were canceled on Friday across the United States and 12,394 were delayed with Philadelphia and Newark airports hardest hit, according to FlightAware.com. Airports across the region warned travelers to expect residual delays as they cleared a backlog of flights. "We now have all our airfields - runways and taxiways - clear," said Ed Freni, aviation director for Boston's Logan International Airport. "We will be back to normal operations by tomorrow." The weather was a factor in several deaths. Police recovered the body of a 71-year-old woman suffering from Alzheimer's disease who had wandered out in the rural western New York State town of Byron on Thursday night, improperly dressed for the single-digit temperatures, according to the Genesee County Sheriff's Office. A Philadelphia city worker was killed after a machine he was using was crushed by a mound of rock salt, media said. DE BLASIO DIGS OUT New York's new mayor, Bill de Blasio, started his day shoveling the walk in front of his Brooklyn brownstone - a task his wife had said their 16-year-old son Dante would handle. Dante turned up later, not being an early riser, his father said at a briefing. Asked what grade he would give his teenaged son, de Blasio said: "I give Dante an A for effort and a D for punctuality." In Washington, the Office of Personnel Management told hundreds of thousands of federal workers they could work from home or take a leave because of the storm. The United Nations in New York and federal courts in New York, New Jersey, and Boston shut down. Schools closed across much of the region. A Wayne, New Jersey, man was rescued Friday afternoon after falling through the ice at Ramapo Lake, where he was snowshoeing in an area frequented by hikers and mountain bikers, state officials said. The Oakland Police Department dive rescue team pulled the man to safety and resuscitated 34-year-old Guncel Karadogan, who was talking and lucid as he was taken to a local hospital, where there was no immediate word on his condition. And in Monmouth, New Jersey, fire officials said the driver of a mail truck and two people in another vehicle were rescued from flood waters in separate incidents after the Shrewsbury River flooded during high tide late Friday morning. One victim was transported to Monmouth Medical Center. However, a spokesperson could not release any information on that victim. Erin AndrewsLambeau Field looks apocalyptic.In Green Bay, Wisconsin, the temperature plummeted to -18 degrees Fahrenheit (-28 C) on Friday, breaking a record for the date set in 1979, according to the National Weather Service. Despite the frigid forecast predicted for the end of the weekend, Green Bay Packers fans bought the remaining 40,000 tickets this week for their team's National Football League playoff game against the San Francisco 49ers on Sunday. The NFL threatened to prohibit local TV from airing the game if the team was unable to sell out the game in Lambeau Field, where diehard fans will brave the temperatures expected reach 0F (minus 18C) during the game. (Additional reporting by Ellen Wulfhorst and Barbara Goldberg in New York; Daniel Lovering in Cambridge, Massachusetts; Jeffrey B. Roth in Gettysburg, Pennsylvania; Kevin Murphy in Kansas City, Missouri; Dave Warner in Philadelphia; Mary Wisniewski in Chicago; David Bailey in Minneapolis; Ian Simpson in Washington; David Jones in Newark, New Jersey; Brendan O'Brien in Milwaukee and Dan Whitcomb in Los Angeles; Editing by Jonathan Oatis and Lisa Shumaker) FREE AppDownload
