In my financial advisor days, I had a client who was a successful commercial airline pilot, and had every intention of maintaining his comfortable lifestyle in retirement. When he and his wife came to me to discuss their retirement plan, I discovered that his company-sponsored 401(k) was made up entirely of cash. He was unaware that he had not invested his contributions and missed 22 years of compounding returns by staying out of the market. While this example is quite extreme, it begs the question – what is your relationship with cash? The World has Changed The return expectations we have for our investments aren’t what they used to be. Continued market ups and downs have pushed many of us out of the market and into cash. I have firsthand knowledge, both personally and professionally, that sitting in cash on the sidelines is one of the best ways for an investor to go nowhere fast. We miss opportunities by staying out of the market. If we take a closer look at our own behaviors, understanding what drives us personally, or in some cases uncovering the things that may derail us, and using this knowledge to drive our goals, we may be able to ensure we are doing everything we can to meet our goals. Self-Awareness, Revisited In the interest of full disclosure, I must admit my own self-knowledge can be summed up by the adage, “the cobbler’s children have no shoes”. It’s true. My experience in financial services does not equate to being fully aware of my own drawbacks as an investor. In other words, I’m not perfect. I’m guilty of hoarding cash.  I know that this cash is not just earning little to no return, it will lose spending power during times of inflation. Yet, for one reason or another, I’ve kept a hefty portion of my portfolio in cash for more than two years now, true to cobbler form. My colleagues have similar stories. Sue Thompson reveals in a Hindsight to Insight story that she and her husband spent so much time trying to decide what to do with a bonus check that they missed a 20% market surge. Out of Cash and into the Market Sitting in cash is not a strategy. While keeping some cash in your portfolio can be a good thing, it’s all too easy to make the mistake of keeping too much cash for too long. Personal biases, behaviors and fears can keep us from making logical decisions about our investments, and each misstep can be costly. So what’s an investor to do? I encourage you to ask yourself, what is your relationship with cash? How much are you holding, just waiting for the “right moment” to invest? In the past 12 months, the market has returned more than 20%, and I am personally experiencing an intense fear of missing out (a.k.a. ‘FOMO’) on any future gains; the fear may be just enough to push me back into the market. If you’re looking to put your cash to work, you don’t have to spend hours developing a perfect strategy. Instead, I suggest two potential paths: Test how well you know yourself as an investor: how much cash are you currently holding? What are some of your reasons for staying on the sidelines? Share your stories here. Heather Pelant is Head of Personal Investing for BlackRock. She is a regular contributor to The Blog and you can find more of her posts here. Carefully consider the Funds’ investment objectives, risk factors, and charges and expenses before investing. This and other information can be found in the Funds’ prospectuses or, if available, the summary prospectuses, which may be obtained by visiting the iShares ETF and BlackRock Mutual Fund prospectus pages. Read the prospectus carefully before investing.  Investing involves risk, including possible loss of principal. Transactions in shares of ETFs will result in brokerage commissions and will generate tax consequences. All regulated investment companies are obliged to distribute portfolio gains to shareholders. This material represents an assessment of the market environment at a specific time and is not intended to be a forecast of future events or a guarantee of future results. The strategies discussed are strictly for illustrative and educational purposes and should not be construed as a recommendation to purchase or sell, or an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security. There is no guarantee that any strategies discussed will be effective. iS-13349-0814 FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA woman looks at food products at a supermarket in TokyoTOKYO (Reuters) - Japanese household spending fell more than expected and factory output remained anemic in July after plunging last month, government data showed on Friday, suggesting that soft exports and a sales tax hike in April may drag on the economy longer than expected. While the Bank of Japan is in no mood to expand monetary stimulus any time soon, the data will keep it under pressure to act if the economy fails to gather momentum after contracting in the April-June quarter, analysts say. Separate data showed core consumer inflation, which excludes volatile prices of fresh foods but includes oil products, hit 3.3 percent in the year to July, matching a median market forecast. When excluding the effect of the April tax hike, it stood at 1.3 percent, still distant from the 2 percent inflation target the Bank of Japan pledged to meet sometime next year. Industrial output rose 0.2 percent in July, much less than a 1.0 percent increase projected in a Reuters poll, data by the Ministry of Economy, Industry and Trade showed. That was a tepid rebound from a 3.4 percent fall in June, the fastest drop since the March 2011 earthquake, as companies slowed production in response to weak exports and post-tax domestic demand. Manufacturers surveyed by the ministry, however, expect to raise output by 1.3 percent in August and by 3.5 percent in September. Household spending fell 5.9 percent in July from a year earlier, more than a median market forecast for a 3.0 percent drop, due to the higher sales tax and bad weather that kept consumers at home instead of going out shopping. Japan's economy shrank at an annualised 6.8 percent in the second quarter from the previous three months, more than erasing the 6.1 percent first-quarter surge in the run-up to the sales tax hike. Many analysts agree with the BOJ that growth will rebound in the current quarter, though some warn that the recovery may falter later this year if the tax-hike pain is prolonged and exports fail to emerge from the doldrums. Despite some weak signs in the economy, the BOJ is optimistic that a tightening job market will lead to higher wages and more income for households to spend, thereby keeping Japan on track to meet its 2 percent inflation target. The jobless rate stood at 3.8 percent in July, compared with a median market forecast for a 3.7 percent rate, with the jobs-to-applicants ratio at a 22-year high of 1.10, data showed on Friday.   (Additional reporting by Tetsushi Kajimoto; Editing by Eric Meijer &amp; Shri Navaratnam) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA Bank Of America sign is pictured in the Manhattan borough of New York NEW YORK (Reuters) - Bank of America Corp on Thursday asked a federal judge to throw out a jury verdict finding it liable for fraud over defective mortgages sold by its Countrywide unit that resulted in a $1.27 billion penalty. The bank urged U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in Manhattan to rule for it as a matter of law or order a new trial, arguing that the evidence at trial did not support the jury's October 2013 verdict. Bank of America said prosecutors were required at trial to prove that loans originated by Countrywide Financial Corp in a process called "Hustle" that were then sold to government mortgage finance giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were not as good as the lender represented. "The trial evidence, even viewed in the light most favorable to the government, did not prove fraud under this standard," the bank's lawyers wrote. A spokeswoman for Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara, whose office brought the case in 2012, declined comment. Bharara's office is expected to respond Sept. 18. The motion came a week after Bank of America agreed to a record $16.65 billion settlement with the U.S. government to settle charges that it and companies it bought misled investors into buying troubled mortgage-backed securities. While the settlement went a long way to resolving the bank's exposure to government cases and probes stemming from the financial crisis, the deal did not include the case before Rakoff, which Bank of America said it would appeal. The lawsuit centered on a program called the "High Speed Swim Lane" - also called HSSL or Hustle - that the government said began in 2007 at Countrywide, which Bank of America acquired in 2008. The government said the program emphasized quantity over quality, rewarding employees for producing more loans and eliminating checkpoints designed to ensure the loans' quality. Last year, a jury found Bank of America and a former mid-level Countrywide executive, Rebecca Mairone, liable for fraud. In a decision last month, Rakoff ordered Bank of America to pay $1.27 billion and Mairone to pay $1 million. The judge at that time called the Hustle program "from start to finish the vehicle for a brazen fraud" and said the evidence of the fraud was "ample." The case is U.S. ex rel O'Donnell v. Bank of America Corp et al, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York, No. 12-01422.   (Reporting by Nate Raymond in New York; Editing by Leslie Adler) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe company logo is seen on the bonnet of a Ford car during the media day ahead of the 84th Geneva Motor Show in GenevaBy Jonathan Stempel NEW YORK (Reuters) - A Manhattan federal judge has dismissed a 12-year-old lawsuit accusing Ford Motor Co  and IBM Corp  of encouraging human rights abuses in apartheid-era South Africa, reluctantly concluding that the case does not belong in U.S. courts. U.S. District Judge Shira Scheindlin on Thursday said the black South Africans who brought the case did not show "relevant conduct" by Ford and IBM within the United States to justify holding the companies liable. The plaintiffs had accused Ford, IBM and other companies of having between the 1970s and early 1990s aided South Africa's former apartheid government in abuses such as killings and torture, by having made military vehicles and computers for government security forces. "That these plaintiffs are left without relief in an American court is regrettable," Scheindlin wrote. "But I am bound to follow [legal precedent], no matter what my personal view of the law may be." The case had been brought under the Alien Tort Statute, a 1789 law that lets non-U.S. citizens pursue some cases in U.S. courts over alleged violations of international law. In April 2013, the U.S. Supreme Court said that law was presumed to cover only violations in the United States, or violations elsewhere that "touch and concern" U.S. territory "with sufficient force." Four months later, the federal appeals court in Manhattan applied that holding, and said the Ford and IBM cases should be dismissed altogether. In April, Scheindlin nonetheless gave the plaintiffs one more chance, to meet the new standards imposed by those higher courts. But in Thursday's decision, she said the bar proved too high, and that any alleged international law violations were by Ford's and IBM's South African units, and occurred abroad. "It has been 12 years. We're really disappointed, devastated by the decision," said Diane Sammons, a partner at Nagel Rice in Roseland, New Jersey, who represents some plaintiffs. "The end result of the ruling is that corporations can act abroad with impunity, even if they're totally controlling the activities of their foreign subsidiaries," she added. "I don't think the Supreme Court's decision was that narrowly defined." She said the plaintiffs had not decided whether to appeal. Jonathan Hacker, an O'Melveny &amp; Myers partner who represents Ford, did not immediately respond to requests for comment. Keith Hummel, a Cravath, Swaine &amp; Moore partner who represents IBM, did not immediately respond to similar requests. Germany's Daimler AG  and Rheinmetall AG  were dismissed as defendants in December. Apartheid ended in 1994 when South Africa held its first all-race elections, bringing Nelson Mandela and the African National Congress to power. IBM's full name is International Business Machines Corp. The case is In re: South African Apartheid Litigation, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York, No. 02-md-01499.  (Reporting by Jonathan Stempel in New York; Editing by Tom Brown) FREE AppDownload
Key-Venutres, Inc.An apartment in New York's Plaza Hotel has hit the market for an insane asking price. Florida-based philanthropist and retired insurance tycoon Barry Kaye and his wife Carol Kaye have listed their third-floor Plaza apartment for a whopping $49.5 million, according to the New York Daily News.  The 3,412-square-foot pad has three bedrooms, two master bathrooms, access to the Plaza's spa and gym, and views of Central Park in every room. The apartment was built from two former state rooms, which the Kayes bought in 2008 for $13.6 million.
REUTERS/China DailyStephen Schwarzman, chairman and CEO of the Blackstone GroupFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. You Will Soon Be Able To Invest Your 401K In Private Equity (The Wall Street Journal) According to Wall Street Journal financial reporter Daisey Maxey, "some big names of the private-equity world are working to make private-equity funds an option in defined-contribution retirement plans, such as 401(k)s, as soon as next year."  Investment in private equity has traditionally been limited to the very wealthy, However, Maxey believes that, "Offering such investments within a 401(k) plan isn’t as exotic as it may sound: pension-fund investors have long been able to invest in the deals, but those investors are drying up as pension funds fade out."  David O’Meara, a senior investment consultant at Towers Watson Investment Services added that, "private-equity investments are already offered within some defined-contribution plans, though that is rare and the products don’t offer daily pricing and liquidity" Fewer And Fewer Americans Call Themselves 'Middle Class' (AEIdeas) According to American Enterprise Institute money and politics columnist James Pethokoukis, years of stagnant wages, declining labor force participation, and job polarization have led to fewer and fewer Americans in the middle class. Citing a recent Pew Research Poll, Pethokoukis writes that in 2008, 72% of Americans considered themselves to be either middle class or upper-middle. That number has fallen to just 57% in 2014.  In that same time, those who self-identify as either lower-middle class or lower class shot up from 25% all the way up to 40%. Now Is A Good Time To Buy Stocks (Fidelity) So far in 2014, stock have been riding high. The S&amp;P 500 shot past the 2000 point mark for the first time in its history. However, "amid all the good news, some investors have grown nervous that the markets are due for a correction or that stocks have reached the kind of heights that preceded the major bear markets of 2001 and 2008." Fidelity fund Sonu Kalra and Gavin Baker believe that while the short-run is uncertain, the long-term potential for stocks remains attractive. “Valuation remains pretty close to historical norms, above the historical average but not dramatically above it,” says Kalra. “I would describe the market overall as fairly valued—but that doesn’t mean we can’t continue to see gains. The U.S. economy continues to grow at a slow but steady pace and, historically, bull markets have ended with a slowdown in the economy. But given that we are in the fifth year of a bull market, I do think you need to be selective about what you own and look for real opportunities.” What A Company Does With Its Money Is Just As Important As How Much It Earns (The Financialist) Although most people focus on the earnings aspect of financial reports, "yet just as important to shareholders—if not more so—is what a corporation does with its cash once it’s made it."  The Financialist's Jens Erik Gould, argues that "this process known as capital allocation goes a long way to determining what future earnings headlines will say and where a company’s stock price will be." Gould points that, "amazingly, CEOs tend not to be particularly skilled in capital allocation. Most earn their positions by excelling in other areas, such as marketing, engineering, production or administration. But once in charge, they quickly realize that allocation is their primary task." FREE AppDownload
Amanda Macias/Business Insider On Friday, we're expected to get inflation and unemployment data from the economic bloc. Expectations for the both numbers are pretty dismal. Inflation is expected to slow further, with CPI expected to rise 0.3% year-over-year in August. This would be down from the 0.4% seen in July. Unemployment is expected to remain unchanged at 11.5%.  Earlier this week, we highlighted the sharp decline in inflation expectations, and as inflation continues to slow in the Eurozone, European Central Bank president Mario Draghi is getting close to facing the biggest thing that keeps central bankers up at night: deflation. Central bankers hate deflation for a number of reasons, but mainly seek to avoid it because it broadly indicates a drop in aggregate demand. This chart from Frederik Ducrozet at Credit Agricole shows how inflation expectations in the Eurozone have dropped this year.  Credit Agricole In addition to slowing inflation, the Eurozone also faces high unemployment. Last week at Jackson Hole, Draghi spoke about how bad the unemployment situation in the Eurozone has been, opening his speech with, "No one in society remains untouched by a situation of high unemployment."  Along with his speech at Jackson Hole, Draghi released a number of charts, including this one, which shows how much of a disaster unemployment in the Eurozone has remained since the financial crisis.  ECB And a major problem with the continued employment crisis in the Eurozone is that the unemployment rate in the Eurozone periphery remains elevated. This map from Ian Bremmer of Euroasia group puts this into perspective.  EU Unemployment: The Periphery (and about to get worse) pic.twitter.com/Q7VHEBaoNA  On Thursday, the German unemployment rate unexpectedly ticked higher, while the Eurozone's consumer confidence index fell to 100.6 in August from 102.2 in July.  And overall, it's been a really rough summer of economic data for Europe; Friday isn't expected to change this trend. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Maks LevinUkrainian servicemen play basketball in a school building in the eastern Ukrainian town of Ilovaysk August 27, 2014.Stocks fell as headlines out of Ukraine and Russia indicated that the situation in Eastern Ukraine escalated significantly, as Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko said Russian troops advanced across the border. The decline in stocks also marks the first time this week that the S&amp;P 500 did not make an all-time high. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Thursday: 1. The second estimate for second quarter GDP showed the economy grew 4.2% in the quarter, up from the 4% first estimated by the BEA last month. This topped the 3.9% that was expected by economists. One of the most encouraging parts of the report was the 8.4% increase in nonresidential fixed investment, which is seen as a proxy for business spending. This increase suggests "that businesses began to put cash to work in Q2 as the US economy rebounded from the early-year growth stumble," said TD Securities' Gennadiy Goldberg.  2. Weekly initial jobless claims came in at 298,000, topping the 300,000 that was expected by economists. Following the report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro said, "In one line: Favorable claims trend signals strong payrolls." Shepherdson said the report is consistent with his projection for nonfarm payrolls to jump 250,000 in August. That report is due out next Friday. 3. Pending home sales jumped 3.3% in July, rebounding after a 1.3% decline in June. This also topped the 0.5% increase expected by economists. “Interest rates are lower than they were a year ago, price growth continues to moderate and total housing inventory is at its highest level since August 2012,” said Lawrence Yun of the National Association of Realtors. 4. In an interview with Bloomberg's Betty Liu, outgoing AIG CEO Bob Benmosche disclosed that he accelerated his retirement due to his deteriorating health. Benmosche told Liu that his cancer has worsened, and he has nine months to a year left to live.  5. RadioShack shares surged on Thursday, bringing their weekly gains to more than 100% after a report by Bloomberg's Jodi Xu and Lauren Coleman-Lochner said that hedge fund Standard General increased its stake in the troubled retailer and is in talks to raise cash to prevent bankruptcy.  6. Abercrombie &amp; Fitch shares fell nearly 5% as sales continue to slow at the teen retailer, prompting the company to make a big change to its clothing lineup: no more logos.  7. Morgan Stanley analyst Adam Jonas again published a note warning on the growing number of subprime auto loans. In his note on Thursday, Jonas published a conversation he had with an Ohio Chevy dealer, who said that the length of auto loans has increased to 72 months and noted that there has been a marked increase in subprime lease loans. This follows a June note from Jonas that warned on the same topic.  Don't Miss: DAVID TICE: Stocks Will Fall 30%-60% » FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersEuropean Central Bank Executive Board member Coeure, Greece's Prime Minister Samaras and European Central Bank Mission Chief for Greece Masuch talk after a meeting at the Prime minister's office in AthensATHENS (Reuters) - Economic recovery in Europe requires action both on the demand and supply sides and persistence with structural reforms, European Central Bank Executive Board member Benoit Coeure said on Thursday. "What we have been saying, what particularly the ECB President (Mario Draghi) has been saying last week in Jackson Hall is that the European economy is at a point where action is needed both on the demand and the supply side," Coeure told Greek Skai TV in an interview. "Action on the supply side is very important. There will be no recovery if euro area countries do not move on towards structural reforms," he said. Coeure said the ECB was committed to maintaining a high level of liquidity in the European economy. "The spur of the recovery, the fuel of the recovery will come from aggregate demand. The ECB is committed to play its part by maintaining its very accommodative monetary conditions for an extended period of time," he said. Coeure met Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras, and top officials including central bank chief Yannis Stournaras during his visit in Athens, ahead of talks between the government and its foreign lenders in Paris next month, which will kick off the country's next bailout review. Greece's economy is on the cusp of recovery after six years of recession, expected to grow by 0.6 percent this year. "Greece has turned the corner," Coeure said adding that a lot remains to be done on structural reforms. Asked about Greek banks' capital needs that may be revealed in the ECB's region-wide stress tests in October, Coeure gave no clues but said it was positive that banks had already successfully tapped capital markets. "We don't know yet whether money will be needed and how much, and in any case the first line of defense will be accessing capital markets," he said. "There should be no worry about it, they have a proven ability to access capital markets."  (Reporting by George Georgiopoulos and Renee Maltezou; Editing by Susan Fenton) FREE AppDownload
CNBCDavid TicePermabear David Tice is out with his latest market call: a 30%-60% decline for stocks. In an interview with CNBC on Wednesday, Tice said the current market reminds him of 1999 and 2006-07, periods just before sharp market sell-offs when he says, "the VIX was very low and complacency was high." "The Fed has been able to engineer a nice recovery in asset prices from '09 to '14," Tice said, "but trees don't grow to the sky."  The drop in stocks, Tice said, will create a period of extreme turmoil, with gold being a major beneficiary. Tice thinks gold prices will go "far above" $3,000 an ounce in the "not too distant future," and Tice said of this call: "I've never been more confident of anything in my life." Tice is the founder of the Prudent Bear Fund, a mutual fund that, according to Federated Investors, "Seeks to help investors benefit from a declining U.S. stock market through the convenience of an actively managed bear fund." Being extremely bearish on stocks is not a new position for Tice, who said in 2009 that the S&amp;P 500 would go to 400, and in October 2012 said the market, "really seems like it seemed in early '08." This chart from Morningstar shows the performance of the fund over the last ten years, with $10,000 invested in the fund worth $5,340 today. In contrast, $10,000 invested in the S&amp;P 500 over the same period would be worth $22,244 today.  Morningstar FREE AppDownload
Richard Rhee / FlickrRadioShack is racing against the clock to avoid bankruptcy.It's been a huge week for shares of RadioShack. Just this week, shares of RadioShack have more than doubled, bringing the stock back above a dollar after it officially became a penny stock following a terrible first quarter report back in June.  Near noon on Thursday, shares of the electronics retailer were up more than 35% to $1.49 per share. This chart from Yahoo Finance shows the meteoric rise in RadioShack in just the last few days. Yahoo Finance The huge rise in shares follows a report from Bloomberg's Jodi Xu and Lauren Coleman-Lochner earlier this week that said hedge fund Standard General is in talks with RadioShack about ways to raise cash to prevent bankruptcy.  Xu and Coleman-Lochner reported that Standard General increased its take in RadioShack to nearly 10% of the company's shares, up from 7% as of June 30. In addition to the sharp rally in common shares of RadioShack, Xu and Coleman-Lochner also noted that RadioShack debt has rallied in this week. This chart from FINRA shows that RadioShack bonds, which carry a 6.75% coupon and mature in 2019, are trading at 44 cents on the dollar, up from less than 35 cents just two weeks ago. FINRA RadioShack, however, still faces huge challenges as it tries to close and remodel stores in an effort to shore up its finances. A July 29 report from Moody's said, "RadioShack's deteriorating liquidity gives the company a limited window for executing a turnaround in sales and earnings."  And as BI's Ashley Lutz reported earlier this month, RadioShack's turnaround efforts might not be enough to save the business.  So, a huge week for RadioShack and investors who found themselves on the right side of this trade, but a potentially empty rally over the long-term.  FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Even ForesterShe's probably thinking about her earning potential.WHAT DOES A 20 YEAR OLD NEED TO KNOW ABOUT PERSONAL FINANCE? This was asked on Quora and because I managed to totally screw things up for myself at the ages of 20, 22, 24, 29, 33, 37, and 40 I decided to answer. Because I'm an expert and wrote a book. The first answer is: nothing. You need to know absolutely nothing about personal finance. Buying a cheap beer versus buying an expensive beer will not help you get rich. But, that seems cynical. So let me say congratulations first. You're 20 years old! Yay! I can't even really remember 20 years old. I started my first business then. And failed at it. But that's another story. When I was 22 I was thrown out of graduate school and then fired from three jobs in a row at higher and higher salaries where I saved nothing. When I was 24 I moved to NYC and began the first of about ten career changes. The first rule of personal finance is that it's not personal and it's not financial. It's about your ability to make ten changes and not get too depressed over it. During those career changes I made a lot of money. Then lost a lot. Then made a lot. Then lost a lot. Then made a lot more. I did this so many times I made a study of what was working for me on the way up. And what wasn't working on the way down. So I'm not an expert on anything. I just know WHAT HAS WORKED FOR ME to create massive success. I'm admitting it right now. I'm not just a failure. First off, don't bother saving money. You get more money in the bank by making more money. That's rule #1. People might think this is flippant. What if they can't make more money? Well, then, you're going to run out of money. No personal finance rule will help. Buying coffee on the street instead of in a Starbucks is the poor man's way to get rich. In other words, you will never get rich by scratching out ten cents from your dollar. People save 10 cents on a coffee and then ... overpay $100,000 for a house and then do reconstruction on it. Or they save 10 cents on a book and then ... buy a college degree that they never use for $200,000. Flickr / Joselito TagaraoLet's be really honest, here. Now your real education can begin: A. Don't save money. Make more. If you think this is not so easy then remember: whatever direction you are walking in, eventually you get there. B. That said, don't spend money on the BIGGEST expenses in life. House and college (and kids and marriage but, of course, there are exceptions there). Just saving on these two things alone is worth over a million dollars in your bank account. C. But doesn't renting flush money down the toilet? No, it doesn't. Do the math. You can argue all you want but the math is very clear as long as you are not lying to yourself. D. Haven't studies shown that college graduates make more money 20 years later? No, studies have not shown that. They show correlation but not causation and they don't take into account multi-collinearity (it could be that the children of middle class families have higher paying jobs later and, oh by the way, these children also go to college). E. Don't invest in anything that you can't directly control every aspect of. In other words ... yourself. In other words: 1. You can't make or save money from a salary. And salaries have been going down versus inflation for 40 years. So don't count on a salary. You're 20, please take this advice alone if you take any advice at all. 2. Investing is a tax on the middle class. There are at least five levels of fees stripped out of your hard-earned cash before your money touches an investment. F. If you want to make money you have to learn the following skills. None of these skills are taught in college. I'm not saying college is awful or about money, etc. I'm just saying that the only skills needed to make money will never be learned in college: - how to sell (both in a presentation and via copy writing)- how to negotiate (which means win-win, not war)- creativity (take out a pad, write down a list of ideas, every day)- leadership (give more to others than you expect back for yourself)- networking (a corollary of leadership)- how to live by themes instead of goals (goals will break your heart)- reinvention (which will happen repeatedly throughout a life)- idea sex (get good at coming up with ideas. Then combine them. Master the intersection)- the 1% rule (every week try to get better 1% physically, emotionally, mentally)- "the Google rule" — give constantly to the people in your network. The value of your network increase linearly if you get to know more people but EXPONENTIALLY if the people you know, get to know and help each other.- how to fail so that a failure turns into a beginning- simple tools to increase productivity- how to master a field. You can't learn this in school with each "field" being regimented into equal 50 minute periods. Mastery begins when formal education ends. Find the topic that sets your heart on fire. Then combust. - stopping the noise: news, advice books, fees upon fees in almost every area of life. Create your own noise instead of falling in life with the others. If you do all this you will gradually make more and more money and help more and more people. At least, I've seen it happen for me and for others. I hope this doesn't sound arrogant. I've messed up too much by not following the above advice. Don't plagiarize the lives of your parents, your peers, your teachers, your colleagues, your bosses. Create your own life. Be the criminal of their rules. I wish I were you because if you follow the above, then you will most likely end up doing what you love and getting massively rich and helping many others. I didn't do that when I was 20. But now, at 46, I'm really grateful I have the chance every day to wake up and improve 1%. FREE AppDownload
YouTube In late June, Morgan Stanley auto-industry analyst Adam Jonas highlighted that car dealers were stretching out the length of auto loans, allowing sales to strengthen as monthly auto payments decline. In Thursday's note, Jonas relays a recent conversation with his uncle "Chuck," a Chevy dealer in Canton, Ohio, which shows that this trend toward ever-lengthening hasn't slowed but accelerated through the summer. Here's what "Chuck" had to say: Jonas: How are August sales going so far? Chuck: We’re holding our own. Nothing earth-shattering. We’re pushing hard for a big, strong Labor Day weekend finish. The month hasn’t been as good as we hoped, but it could have been worse. Jonas: How’s the incentive environment? Chuck: GM brought back 0% for 72 on the trucks and selected models, so that was a Godsend to us. It’s not uncommon anymore to do 75- to 78-month loans. It used to be that 60 months was the norm. Then it went to 66, and now it’s over 70. Jonas: Are you saying &gt;72-month loans are normal? Chuck: Absolutely. People don’t seem to care anymore. It’s all about the monthly payment. Folks just want a car, have a monthly budget and they say: "Just tell me how I can fit this into my monthly budget." They don’t care as much if they still have half the loan balance left after five years. Now we do get people who we put into 75-month loans from four or five years ago that are coming back today asking us: 'How can I get out of this loan?' ... but that’s a different story. This trend toward longer loans isn't limited to new cars, but also leases, as the "subprime lease" category has emerged as a more popular type of auto loan. Jonas: How’s the leasing business? Chuck: We’re witnessing a drastic increase in our lease business. The latest flavor is the 'Subprime Lease.' A lot of banks are doing internal scoring now to help consumers with a bad score but a good history to get into a new car. So once we verify employment and income we can run them on a lease with a 2.5 factor instead of a 0.001 factor. It may increase the monthly payment by 40 to 60 bucks, but you can get them into a new car they can afford. Subprime leases have been around for a while but have clearly become more prominent lately. For example, you’ll see it with more young adults, only six months on payroll and getting credit scores established. Jonas: What do you think of FICO recalibrating their scoring definitions to broaden availability of credit to more consumers? Chuck: To me ... that’s opening up Pandora’s box. When we start recalculating the basics to help more people, we may be inadvertently creating problems. Time will tell. So basically, dealers are getting customers into longer loans with lower monthly payments that aren't cheaper.  This chart from a New York Federal Reserve blog post on Aug. 14 shows the composition of auto loans, which are on the rise for borrowers of all credit scores.  As the Fed wrote:  So, subprime auto lending is definitely on the rise in absolute terms, although the increase in prime auto lending over the same period makes the relative increase in the subprime share less pronounced ... We will continue to monitor this ongoing change in the consumer lending market. Federal Reserve Bank of New York  FREE AppDownload
BIIMobile is increasingly used as a tool to transfer moneyA new generation of apps make transferring money faster, less expensive, and more precise. They also reduce the hassle of going to a money transfer agency, remembering a checkbook, or finding an ATM. The opportunity is huge. Globally, the market for peer-to-peer transfers and remittances is worth well over $1 trillion. In a recent report from BI Intelligence, we profile 10 of the most exciting P2P payment apps and explain how they may serve as a bridge to wider use of smartphones to complete in-person "walletless transactions," at stores and restaurants. Present use cases include money transfers between friends and family, international remittances, and even fees and wages paid to independent workers. Access the Full Report By Signing Up For A Free Trial Today &gt;&gt; Here are some of the key takeaways from the report:  In full, the report:  For full access to all BI Intelligence's charts and data on the Payments Industry, sign up for a free trial. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Bogdan CristelThe Ford Romania Headquarters in CraiovaBUCHAREST (Reuters) - Ford Motor Co. &lt;f.n&gt; will halt production at its Romanian car factory for nine days in September because of low demand, Ford Romania spokeswoman Ana-Maria Timis was quoted as saying on Thursday by local news agency Mediafax. Ford took over struggling local carmaker Automobile Craiova in 2008 and started producing its B-Max model there four years later. Ford Romania, which employs about 4,000 people, has regularly stopped production for several days a month for over one year.   (Reporting by Luiza Ilie) FREE AppDownload
FRED The most exciting line item of the GDP report is real nonresidential fixed investment, which is a fancy way of saying business investment. In Q2 it jumped a whopping 8.4%, which was much stronger than the initial 5.5% estimate. "The drivers in this category included impressive gains in structures spending (9.4% from the previously reported 5.3% increase) and business equipment expenditures, 10.7% versus the initial estimated of 7.0%," noted Bloomberg economists Rich Yamarone. This suggests "that businesses began to put cash to work in Q2 as the US economy rebounded from the early-year growth stumble," said TD Securities' Gennadiy Goldberg. The financial crisis was highlighted by a credit crunch, which left even the most financially healthy corporations strapped for cash. As a result, corporate America had been accumulating an hoarding trillions of dollars of cash on their balance sheets. And because growth has been slow and the outlook uncertain, corporations have largely returned excess cash flows to investors through share buybacks and dividends. With the economic recovery and bull market in stocks entering its sixth year, economists and strategists have argued that the next leg of growth would have to be driven at least in part by a boom in business spending. However, all of the catalysts for a business spending boom appear to finally be coming together. We know growth is picking up. Equipment is getting old.Gluskin Sheff And lending standards are getting looser...Federal Reserve ...So far this year, Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia surveys show that an average of 30.5 percent of businesses plan to increase spending over the next six months, up from 27 percent over the same period in 2013. The portion that plans to cut spending, meanwhile, has declined from 13 percent to 6.7 percent. (It’s worthwhile to note that both figures mark a 180-degree turnaround: Over the same time period in 2009, only an average of 18 percent cited plans to expand spending, while 25 percent said they planned to cut.) Further evidence that there’s optimism in the air: The Conference Board’s CEO Conference Survey index sat at 62 out of a possible 100-points this month, and anything above 50 is considered positive. And more than three-quarters of CEOs expect profit growth over the next 12 months. With aggregate lending standards relaxing over the past two-plus years, banks are seeing higher demand for commercial and industrial loans from companies with at least $50 million in sales. The net percentage of banks citing higher loan demand in their most recent quarter has been positive since the first quarter of 2013. In July’s quarterly survey, 36 percent of banks surveyed said demand for C&amp;I loans from large and middle-market companies had grown over the past quarter, compared to just 5.3 percent that reported flagging demand. "Of course, more important is the recent widespread strengthening in the business and consumer surveys, which suggests that GDP growth in the third quarter could be a decent 3.0%," said Capital Economics' Paul Dales. Hopefully, all of this good news is real and it'll provide the juice the economy and the markets need.    FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TelevisionAIG's Bob Benmosche told Bloomberg Television's Betty Liu that because his cancer had worsened, he has decided to step down from his role as CEO earlier than he originally planned.  Benmosche, 70, said his cancer "had begun massive mutations" and that now he had nine months to a year left to live. Initially, Benmosche planned to step down in the first quarter of 2015. But after his revised prognosis he told the AIG board: "You know what? I'm not going to play the odds. And I think the changes have to be made now not later. And so let's accelerate my retirement." Benmosche told Liu he was currently "stable ... which is a big word because it wasn't stable for the last six months" and that he will know in "another month or two whether [they're] making good progress or not." Despite everything, Benmosche added that he "never was at a dark place." Instead of focusing on the pain and painkillers, Benmosche said that, "it's about thinking of your life and enjoying your life until you don't have a life." Benmosche took over as CEO in August 2009. He's credited for being one of the heroes of the great recession thanks to his successful efforts in navigating the failing insurance giant out of the financial crisis. You can watch the full interview here:  FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsPending home sales jumped 3.3% in July after falling by 1.3% in June. Economists were expecting a modest 0.5% pace of growth. “Interest rates are lower than they were a year ago, price growth continues to moderate and total housing inventory is at its highest level since August 2012,” said Lawrence Yun of the National Association of Realtors. “The increase in the number of new and existing homes for sale is creating less competition and is giving prospective buyers more time to review their options before submitting an offer. “More importantly, steady job additions to the economy are helping family finances and giving them added confidence to enter the market.” Sales jumped in the Northeast, South, and West. However, sales declined by 0.4% in the Midwest. "The pending home sales index has now risen in four of the past five months and suggests further momentum is in store for existing home sales over the next 1-2 months," said Barclays' Michael Gapen. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsPending home sales jumped 3.3% in July after falling by 1.3% in June. Economists were expecting a modest 0.5% pace of growth. “Interest rates are lower than they were a year ago, price growth continues to moderate and total housing inventory is at its highest level since August 2012,” said Lawrence Yun of the National Association of Realtors. “The increase in the number of new and existing homes for sale is creating less competition and is giving prospective buyers more time to review their options before submitting an offer. “More importantly, steady job additions to the economy are helping family finances and giving them added confidence to enter the market.” Sales jumped in the Northeast, South, and West. However, sales declined by 0.4% in the Midwest. "The pending home sales index has now risen in four of the past five months and suggests further momentum is in store for existing home sales over the next 1-2 months," said Barclays' Michael Gapen. FREE AppDownload
Fisher InvestmentsThis post is sponsored by Fisher Investments.  Just about everything lasts longer these days: cars, light bulbs, commercials, gum, even our lives. And with longer life expectancy comes a longer retirement.  Surprisingly, not enough investors take the time to consider whether their savings will hold out for as long as they need. Investors who don't have well-defined objectives, or a real sense of how long they’ll need their money to last, can run the risk of coming up short in retirement. National Vital Statistics ReportTo see if you're ready, there are certain questions you should ask yourself: How long will I need my retirement savings? In most cases, investors need their savings to last as long as they do, but a lot of times it can be even longer. For those planning to leave their portfolio behind to support a younger spouse, children, or charity, failing to plan properly for retirement can be catastrophic. As average life expectancy continues to rise, it's smart to plan for a longer retirement early.  Am I underestimating how much cash flow I'll need after retirement?  Maintaining your lifestyle in the future can become much more costly if your expenses are tied to goods or services with fast-rising prices, such as healthcare. Overall, inflation has averaged roughly 3% annually**, and investors who fail to account for inflation will be faced with a significant hole in their savings. Fisher Investments' 15-Minute Retirement Plan can get you started on the right path. If you have a $500,000 portfolio, download the guide by Forbes columnist Ken Fisher's firm. Even if you have a retirement plan in place, this must-read guide provides research and analysis you can use right now. Download the guide now » **Source: Global Financial Data, Inc., as of 1/18/2013. Based on US BLS Consumer Price Index from 1925-2012.  Find out more about Sponsor Posts. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/John GressBP's Whiting, Indiana Refinery in 2007HOUSTON (Reuters) - BP Plc &lt;bp.l&gt; said its largest U.S. refinery, at Whiting, Indiana, continued to operate on Thursday morning following a blaze the night before that was expected to have a minimal impact on production. One worker was taken to an area hospital for treatment, but was later released, the company said. BP said operations at the 413,500 barrel per day (bpd) Whiting refinery "were minimally impacted as a result of the incident and the refinery continues to produce products for customers." Genscape, an energy information service provider, said all monitored units were operating normally except for the Blending Oil Unit, which shut at 9:04 p.m. That unit removes sulfur from distillate and gas oil streams, according to Genscape. This incident comes nearly a decade after a 2005 explosion at a BP refinery in Texas City, Texas, killed 15 people and resulted in multi-million dollar settlements and tens of millions in fines for the company. The company sold that plant in 2013. However, operational incidents, including small fires, at refineries are reasonably common, said Daniel Horowitz, the spokesman for the U.S. Chemical Safety Board. The Board, which investigates larger refinery fires, drew that conclusion after a report into a fire at a Chevron refinery. The CSB will follow-up with BP, but is unlikely to investigate a case that doesn't involve fatalities or offsite damage, Horowitz said. The Whiting refinery is the seventh-largest refinery in the United States and the largest outside of the Gulf Coast. REUTERS/John GressBritish Petroleum oil refinery sits on the shore of Lake Michigan in Whiting, Indiana.The plant is the centerpiece of BP's shift over the past two years to emphasize using cheaper, heavy crude oil from Canada's tar sands fields in Alberta. In November, BP completed a $4-billion revamp of the Whiting refinery to boost its intake of Canadian crude oil from 85,000 bpd to 350,000 bpd. On July 29, BP's Chief Executive Bob Dudley said during a conference call that Whiting had been refining 270,000 bpd in heavy crude oil in the second quarter of this year and could likely run up to 300,000 bpd. In its statement on Thursday, the company did not specify which unit was affected by the blaze, but said it was located in the north end of the refinery. BP said the fire broke out at 9 p.m. Wednesday local time (0200 GMT Thursday). The fire was out by 10:55 p.m. local time Wednesday. Firefighters from the city of Whiting were placed on stand-by to assist in battling the blaze, but the fire was contained and extinguished by BP's firefighting unit at the refinery.   (Reporting by Erwin Seba with additional reporting by Jessica Resnick-Ault; Editing by Mark Potter, Pravin Char and Meredith Mazzilli) FREE AppDownload
moriza via www.flickr.comWe like to think we're rational human beings.  In fact, we are prone to hundreds of proven biases that cause us to think and act irrationally, and even thinking we're rational despite evidence of irrationality in others is known as blind spot bias. The study of how often human beings do irrational things was enough for psychologists Daniel Kahneman to win the Nobel Prize in Economics, and it opened the rapidly expanding field of behavioral economics. Similar insights are also reshaping everything from marketing to criminology. Hoping to clue you — and ourselves — into the biases that frame our decisions, we've collected a long list of the most notable ones. FREE AppDownload

Bloomberg TelevisionAIG's Bob Benmosche told Bloomberg Television's Betty Liu that because his cancer had worsened, he has decided to step down from his role as CEO earlier than he originally planned.  Benmosche, 70, said his cancer "had begun massive mutations" and that now he had nine months to a year left to live. Initially, Benmosche planned to step down in the first quarter of 2015. But after his revised prognosis he told the AIG board: "You know what? I'm not going to play the odds. And I think the changes have to be made now not later. And so let's accelerate my retirement." Benmosche told Liu he was currently "stable ... which is a big word because it wasn't stable for the last six months" and that he will know in "another month or two whether [they're] making good progress or not." Despite everything, Benmosche added that he "never was at a dark place." Instead of focusing on the pain and painkillers, Benmosche said that, "it's about thinking of your life and enjoying your life until you don't have a life." Benmosche took over as CEO in August 2009. He's credited for being one of the heroes of the great recession thanks to his successful efforts in navigating the failing insurance giant out of the financial crisis. You can watch the full interview here:  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Juan Carlos UlateGDP grew at a 4.2% pace in Q2. This is according to the BEA, which revised that growth figure up from an earlier estimate of 4.0%. Economists were expecting the growth rate to be revised down to 3.9%. Personal consumption growth was unchanged at 2.5%. Economists were expecting it to be cut to 2.4%. The change in private inventories added 1.39 percentage points to growth. Economists often flag this as it represents a drag on future growth. Real final sales — that is, GDP minus the change in private inventories — increased 2.8% in Q2. Nonresidential fixed investment, a proxy for business spending, jumped 8.4% during the quarter. This was revised up from an earlier estimate of 5.5% growth. The U.S. economy slowed sharply in Q1 as the unusually harsh winter effectively froze growth. Q2 has been characterized as the economic snapback. "The stronger pace of economic activity will go a long way in the promotion of job creation, which will in turn foster even greater economic activity," write Bloomberg economists Richard Yamarone and Josh Wright. Here's a breakdown of the components of GDP: BEA Here's how much the various components of GDP added to growth. BEA FREE AppDownload
Initial jobless claims just came in at 298,000. That's slightly below the 300,000 that was expected. And it's a slight beat relative to the 299,000 from last week. Overall, a very solid number that continues the longstanding trend of minimal layoffs. FREE AppDownload
 REUTERS/Larry DowningJPMorgan CEO Jamie DimonJPMorgan Chase has confirmed it's investigating a possible cyberattack earlier this month, Reuters reports. "The bank is taking additional steps to safeguard sensitive or confidential information, though it not seeing unusual fraud activity at this time," company spokeswoman Trish Wexler told the website. On Wednesday, Bloomberg reported that the FBI was investigating an alleged cyberattack that affected five U.S. banks at the beginning of August, including JP Morgan Chase &amp; Co., identified in the article as the target of the attack. Two people familiar with the attack spoke to Bloomberg, and claimed that hackers gained access to gigabytes of sensitive data. The New York Times reports that the sensitive data included checking and saving account information. In addition to the FBI, a number of outside security companies have been brought in to investigate the cyberattack. The NSA is also reported to have been called in to help with the investigation. Security experts have speculated that the attack may have originated from a foreign government rather than a gang of criminal hackers motivated by financial gain. The Russian government has been touted as a possible originator of the hack, which may have been in retaliation for recent sanctions levied on Russia by the U.S. government over the crisis in Ukraine. The news comes as tensions between Russia and Ukraine have reached a new high with geopolitical expert Ian Bremmer of Eurasia Group tweeting Thursday morning: "Russia, Ukraine now at war." In a statement to the New York Times, JPMorgan spokeswoman Patricia Wexler said: "Companies of our size unfortunately experience cyberattacks nearly every day, we have multiple layers of defense to counteract any threats and constantly monitor fraud levels.” Last week, JPMorgan was revealed to have been the target in an email phishing campaign that attempted to collect customer information. The "smash and grab" campaign attempted to scam JPMorgan customers into handing over their bank information, as well as infecting computers with viruses. It's currently unclear whether this is related to the latest cyber-attack. FREE AppDownload
 REUTERS/Larry DowningJPMorgan CEO Jamie DimonJPMorgan Chase has confirmed it's investigating a possible cyberattack earlier this month, Reuters reports. "The bank is taking additional steps to safeguard sensitive or confidential information, though it not seeing unusual fraud activity at this time," company spokeswoman Trish Wexler told the website. On Wednesday, Bloomberg reported that the FBI was investigating an alleged cyberattack that affected five U.S. banks at the beginning of August, including JP Morgan Chase &amp; Co., identified in the article as the target of the attack. Two people familiar with the attack spoke to Bloomberg, and claimed that hackers gained access to gigabytes of sensitive data. The New York Times reports that the sensitive data included checking and saving account information. In addition to the FBI, a number of outside security companies have been brought in to investigate the cyberattack. The NSA is also reported to have been called in to help with the investigation. Security experts have speculated that the attack may have originated from a foreign government rather than a gang of criminal hackers motivated by financial gain. The Russian government has been touted as a possible originator of the hack, which may have been in retaliation for recent sanctions levied on Russia by the U.S. government over the crisis in Ukraine. The news comes as tensions between Russia and Ukraine have reached a new high with geopolitical expert Ian Bremmer of Eurasia Group tweeting Thursday morning: "Russia, Ukraine now at war." In a statement to the New York Times, JPMorgan spokeswoman Patricia Wexler said: "Companies of our size unfortunately experience cyberattacks nearly every day, we have multiple layers of defense to counteract any threats and constantly monitor fraud levels.” Last week, JPMorgan was revealed to have been the target in an email phishing campaign that attempted to collect customer information. The "smash and grab" campaign attempted to scam JPMorgan customers into handing over their bank information, as well as infecting computers with viruses. It's currently unclear whether this is related to the latest cyber-attack. FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesWarren Buffett.2014 has been unnerving. Every day, a new worrisome headline comes out of Russia, Iraq, Libya, the Gaza Strip, or any of the world's other geopolitical hotspots. And there's the ongoing fears of an Ebola outbreak in West Africa, an unstable volcano in Iceland, and the ever-present risk of a solar flare knocking out the world's communications networks. We're now reading that Russia is invading Ukraine, which has caused U.S. stock market futures to tank. So, what are investors to do? Warren Buffett would probably recommend taking a step back, reflecting on history, and then looking to the future. During the darkest days of the financial crisis in 2008, Warren Buffett wrote a brilliant op-ed for The New York Times, reminding us that bad things happen all of the time. Here's an excerpt: A little history here: During the Depression, the Dow hit its low, 41, on July 8, 1932. Economic conditions, though, kept deteriorating until Franklin D. Roosevelt took office in March 1933. By that time, the market had already advanced 30 percent. Or think back to the early days of World War II, when things were going badly for the United States in Europe and the Pacific. The market hit bottom in April 1942, well before Allied fortunes turned. Again, in the early 1980s, the time to buy stocks was when inflation raged and the economy was in the tank. In short, bad news is an investor’s best friend. It lets you buy a slice of America’s future at a marked-down price. Over the long term, the stock market news will be good. In the 20th century, the United States endured two world wars and other traumatic and expensive military conflicts; the Depression; a dozen or so recessions and financial panics; oil shocks; a flu epidemic; and the resignation of a disgraced president. Yet the Dow rose from 66 to 11,497. Buffett made a similar statement in his 1994 letter to Berkshire Hathaway shareholders: We will continue to ignore political and economic forecasts, which are an expensive distraction for many investors and businessmen. Thirty years ago, no one could have foreseen the huge expansion of the Vietnam War, wage and price controls, two oil shocks, the resignation of a president, the dissolution of the Soviet Union, a one-day drop in the Dow of 508 points, or treasury bill yields fluctuating between 2.8% and 17.4%. But, surprise — none of these blockbuster events made the slightest dent in Ben Graham's investment principles. Nor did they render unsound the negotiated purchases of fine businesses at sensible prices. Imagine the cost to us, then, if we had let a fear of unknowns cause us to defer or alter the deployment of capital. Indeed, we have usually made our best purchases when apprehensions about some macro event were at a peak. Fear is the foe of the faddist, but the friend of the fundamentalist. Buffett is saying two things. First, the market will weather crises no matter how bad they are. Second, a good business offering attractive longterm returns is always worth investing in. Are stocks about to crash? Maybe. Maybe they'll keep rising. But whatever the path, prices will most likely be higher for patient investors. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA price sign at a Dollar General store in Arvada, Colorado(Reuters) - Dollar General Corp , the No.1 U.S. deep discount retailer, said it remained committed to acquiring rival Family Dollar Stores Inc  and reported a 7.5 percent rise in quarterly sales. Family Dollar last week rejected a $9 billion buyout offer from Dollar General that it said could run foul of competition law, opting instead for a smaller bid from Dollar Tree Inc . "The financial benefits of our offer to Family Dollar shareholders are indisputable," Dollar General Chief Executive Rick Dreiling said in a statement on Thursday. The company's net income rose to $251.3 million, or 83 cents per share, in the second quarter ended Aug. 1, from $245.5 million, or 75 cents per share, a year earlier. Net sales rose to $4.72 billion from $4.39 billion, helped by higher sales of tobacco products, candy and snacks. Same-store sales rose 2.1 percent.  (Reporting by Sruthi Ramakrishnan in Bangalore; Editing by Savio D'Souza) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Bjorn LindgrenMalmo supporters after their team won its Champions League playoff second leg soccer match against Salzburg, in Malmo on Wednesday.Good morning! Here's what you need to know: Russia Is Advancing On Ukraine, Ukraine Says. "I have made a decision to cancel my working visit to the Republic of Turkey due to sharp aggravation of the situation in Donetsk region, particularly in Amvrosiivka and Starobeshevo, as Russian troops were brought into Ukraine," Ukraine President Petro Poroshenko said. "Current servicemen are also fighting in our ranks, as they came to us to struggle for our freedom instead of their vacation." Russia Is Advancing On U.S. Banks? "Russian hackers attacked JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co. and at least four other banks this month in a coordinated assault that resulted in the loss of gigabytes of customer data, according to two people familiar with the investigation," Bloomberg's Michael Riley and Jordan Robertson report. "At least one of the banks has linked the breach to Russian state-sponsored hackers, said one of the people. The FBI is investigating whether the attack could have been in retaliation for U.S.-imposed sanctions on Russia, said the second person, who also asked not to be identified, citing the continuing investigation." Sentiment In Europe Is Getting Worse. The bad economic news out of Europe has yet to end. The eurozone's consumer confidence index fell to 100.6 in August from 102.2 in July. This was worse than the 101.5 expected by economists. "Based on sentiment surveys, the eurozone is off to a poor start in Q3, and while we are yet to see any decisive hard data, it does not leave much optimism for a strong rebound in GDP growth," said Pantheon Macroeconomics' Claus Vistesen. "Flagging business confidence makes sense given tensions in Ukraine, poor economic data and weakness in equity prices." Germany's Still Struggling. The number of people unemployed in Germany unexpectedly climbed by 2,000 in August. Economists were expecting this number to decline by 5,000. The unemployment rate in Europe's largest economy held at 6.7%. Markets Are Down Everywhere. In Europe, Britain's FTSE 100 is down 0.4%, France's CAC 40 is down 0.8%, and Germany's DAX is down 1.4%. Asia closed lower, with Japan's Nikkei down 0.4% and Hong Kong's Hang Seng down 0.7%. Dow futures are down 65 points, and S&amp;P 500 futures are down 7.9 points. The State Of The U.S. Economy. A lot of economic data was due to come out of the U.S. on Thursday, starting with an updated estimated of Q2 GDP. Economists estimate GDP growth will be revised down to 3.9% from 4.0% a month ago. Personal consumption is estimated to have slipped to 2.4% from 2.5%. Here's Morgan Stanley's Ted Wieseman: "Lower inventories partly offset by higher net exports should result in a downward revision to the 4.0% advance GDP estimate but with a better demand/inventories mix, a positive for the Q3 outlook. June results for nondurable manufacturing, wholesale, and retail ex auto inventories all came in well below elevated BEA assumptions, pointing to the +1.7pp contribution to Q2 growth from inventories being revised down to +1.1pp. The surprising $3 billion narrowing in the June trade deficit to a five-month low, however, points to the net exports contribution being revised up to -0.4pp from -0.6pp." The State Of U.S. Jobs. At 8:30 a.m. ET, we'll get the latest weekly tally of initial jobless claims. Economists estimate weekly initial claims ticked up to 300,000 from 298,000 a week ago. "Initial claims have hovered around 300k for the past few weeks and should continue to do so as labor markets tighten," Nomura economists said. The State Of U.S. Housing. At 10 a.m. ET, we'll get the July pending home sales report. Economists estimate the pace of pending sales climbed 0.5%. "Since pending home sales track signed contracts, this suggests continued improvement in existing home sales," said Bank of America Merrill Lynch economists. Nonbank Mortgage Lenders Are On The Rise. "In the first half of the year, lenders that aren't banks made almost a quarter of all mortgage loans, the highest level since at least the financial crisis, according to data on the top-30 mortgage originators from industry newsletter Inside Mortgage Finance," the WSJ's Joe Light reports. "Mortgage lending at big banks such as Wells Fargo &amp; Co. and J.P. Morgan Chase has dropped more quickly than the rest of the industry in the wake of large mortgage-related legal settlements, new banking standards that require lenders to carry more capital, and increased scrutiny from regulators." Goldman Moves Out Of The NYSE, Robots Move In. "When Scott Knudsen rang the opening bell at the New York Stock Exchange this week, he signaled the ceremonial start of the day’s session and the conquest of the NYSE floor by high-frequency trading firms," Bloomberg's Sam Mamudi and John Detrixhe write. "His firm, IMC Chicago LLC, just finished its takeover of Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s NYSE unit, giving it rights to manage buying and selling of dozens of stocks including prominent ones like International Business Machines Corp., Verizon Communications Inc. and Visa Inc. IMC joins rival automated trading firms Virtu Financial Inc. and KCG Holdings Inc. facilitating transactions at the NYSE in lower Manhattan, a role once filled solely by humans." FREE AppDownload
Denis Balibouse/ReutersThe logo of private bank Lombard Odier is pictured on the bank headquarters in Geneva May 9, 2012.Swiss private banks Lombard Odier and Mirabaud on Thursday published their first results for two centuries, as the ultra-discreet sector puts its books in the spotlight. Lombard Odier said first-half net profit was 62.5 million Swiss francs (52 million euros, $68.2 million), while assets under management were 156 billion francs. "These results are in line with our expectations and reflect both the investments we make towards our strategic objectives as well as the conservative use of our balance sheet," said Patrick Odier, senior managing partner of the bank founded in 1797. "Our group is increasingly diversified, more international and more balanced between private and asset management clients and we are expanding our partnerships with financial services providers," he added. Fellow private bank Mirabaud -- founded in 1819 -- released its results shortly afterwards. Its first-half profit was 17.5 million francs, while assets under management or custody reached 27 billion francs. The results flurry began on Tuesday with the private bank Pictet, founded in 1805. It announcing a first-half profit of 203 million francs, and assets under management 404 billion francs. Lombard Odier said its tier one capital ratio -- a benchmark of stability, which measures a bank's own top-notch funds -- was 23.8 percent. In comparison, Mirabaud's was 19.7 percent and Pictet's, 21.7 percent. Under global rules, banks must have a ratio of at least 4.5 percent, while Switzerland's regulator requires 7.8 percent. Swiss private banks have changed shape amid a tougher regulatory environment since the global financial crisis, and scandals such as the Madoff fraud case in the United States which rippled across the world's banking sector. Traditional Swiss banking secrecy has been under fire as governments -- notably the United States and European Union -- crack down on tax cheats who stash cash abroad. The private banking sector caters for the super-wealthy, an increasingly globalised client group. The complex nature of international finance has made it difficult for private bankers to feel safe with their tradition of putting their personal assets on the line. The shake up in the sector began in January when Pictet and Lombard Odier abandoned their old statutes, followed by Mirabaud and LaRoche, which is also scheduled to publish its results. The old rules made their handful of wealthy managing partners -- bankers for generations -- personally responsible for clients' money. If the bank got into trouble, the partners could lose all their assets, not just those they had invested in the operation. The banks are now a "corporate partnership", a hybrid status making comparison easier with fully-listed players such as Credit Suisse and UBS. It is similar to the "limited company" structure in the British Isles, with its well-known "Ltd." label. The partners now risk only the funds they have invested in the bank, rather than putting all their personal assets on the line. Not being listed on the stock exchange, the banks do not have to publish as detailed results as mainstream banks. Seven lower-profile private banks have opted to stick to their traditional operating model.   Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
Reuters Good morning, there's a bunch of bad news! Here's a really quick skim: Of the stories, probably the biggest news is the Ukraine invasion. Read more about that here. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Gleb GaranichA Ukrainian Mi-24 helicopter gunship flies above a military base in the eastern Ukrainian town of Kramatorsk on Wednesday. "I have made a decision to cancel my working visit to the Republic of Turkey due to sharp aggravation of the situation in Donetsk region, particularly in Amvrosiivka and Starobeshevo, as Russian troops were brought into Ukraine," Poroshenko said in a statement. "Russia, Ukraine now at war," tweeted geopolitical expert Ian Bremmer of Eurasia Group, adding that "Ukraine economy will collapse if direct fighting [with] Russia persists; support from the West isn't there. Poroshenko now needs a ceasefire." The United Nations Security Council is holding an emergency meeting Thursday afternoon in New York on the escalation in Ukraine at the request of Lithaunia, a NATO state which shares a border with Russia.  "There's an invasion of Russian troops into the east of Ukraine," Dainus Baublys, the minister counselor for Lithuania's UN mission, told Business Insider. "Up to 1,000 Russian troops invaded yesterday ... they continue pounding Ukrainian forces across the border with their artillery and they are deploying more artillery pieces along the border." Google Maps The new front opened in Amvrosiivka and Starobeshevo opens a pathway to Crimea, which Russia annexed with special forces troops in March. The fear is that Russia is attempting to create a land link between Russia and the strategic peninsula. Russian troops are leading a separatist counteroffensive in the east, bringing in tanks and using artillery from inside Ukrainian territory. A Russian-backed rebel leader said that at least 3,000 to 4,000 Russian troops were fighting inside Ukraine. "Current servicemen are also fighting in our ranks, as they came to us to struggle for our freedom instead of their vacations," prime minister of the self-proclaimed Donetsk People’s Republic (DPR) Alexander Zakharchenko told Russian media. "This is characteristic only for Russians." Reports from the ground describe an escalating ground war. "This is what happened: They crossed the border, took up positions, and started shooting," Sgt. Aleksei Panko said after telling The New York Times on Wednesday that about 60 armored vehicles crossed the border near the town of Novoazovsk. "This is now a war with Russia." "Ukrainian troops were ordered to pull out to save their lives. By late afternoon both Russian convoys had entered the town. Ukraine is now fortifying nearby Mariupol to the west," Ukraine's national security and defense council said in a statement. REUTERSA look at the fighting in Ukraine's southeast, where until this week Ukrainian forces were re-taking territory very quickly over the summer. U.S. Ambassador to Ukraine Geoffrey Pyatt also said Russian soldiers were directly involved in the new offensive. And Daniel Baer, the U.S. Ambassador to the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, called the latest escalation a "man-made tragedy, directed by the Kremlin." "Russian supplied tanks, armored vehicles, artillery and multiple rocket launchers have been insufficient to defeat Ukraine's armed forces, so now an increasing number of Russian troops are intervening directly in the fighting on Ukrainian territory," Pyatt wrote on Twitter. "Russia has also sent its newest air defense systems including the SA-22 into eastern Ukraine and is now directly involved in the fighting." Ukrainian Prime Minister Arseniy Yatsenyuk has called for an emergency U.N. Security Council meeting to deal with the issue of Russian troops in Ukraine, although Russia sits on the council and could veto any proposal that arose. "The Russian military’s use of artillery from locations within Ukraine is of special concern to Western military officials, who say Russian artillery has already been used to shell Ukrainian forces near Luhansk," Andrew Kramer and Michael Gordon of The Times reported Wednesday. "And along with the antiaircraft systems operated by separatists or Russian forces inside Ukraine, the artillery has the potential to alter the balance of power in the struggle for control of eastern Ukraine." State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki said Wednesday that Russia’s "incursions" in Ukraine indicated "a Russian-directed counter-offensive is likely underway," which she said was of "deep concern" to the U.S. She accused Russia of "sending its young men into Ukraine, but not telling them or their parents where they are going or what they are doing."  "These are not steps you take when you are operating in a transparent manner," Psaki said. "We are also concerned about the Russian government’s unwillingness to tell the truth even as its soldiers are found 30 miles inside Ukraine.” Stringer ./REUTERSRussian servicemen drive armored vehicles on the outskirts of the city of Belgorod near the Russian-Ukrainian border on April 25. On Tuesday, dozens of heavily armed strangers with Russian accents and military gear without insignias appeared in an eastern Ukrainian village east of the rebel stronghold of Donetsk and set up a roadblock. "The people at the new checkpoint, they were polite military men wearing green. Definitely not Ukrainian. They're definitely not from around here," one man told Reuters. The "green men" are a reminder of the Russian special forces that were used to annex the Ukrainian peninsula of Crimea.  The Times noted that Russian President Vladimir Putin, who was in Belarus this week for talks with Ukrainian and European leaders, may be "calculating that Moscow could intervene in eastern Ukraine with conventional Russian forces without risking further Western economic sanctions." Yatsenyuk suggested the response from the West needed to be tougher, saying that U.S. and European Union sanctions leveled on Moscow had not been "helpful" in keeping Putin from continuing to escalate the situation. He said measures like freezing Russian assets and banning Russian bank transactions should be considered as new punitive measures. "Vladimir Putin has purposely started a war in Europe. It is impossible to hide from the fact," Yatsenyuk said. REUTERS/Sergei Bondarenko/Kazakh Presidential Office/PoolRussian President Vladimir Putin, left, shakes hands with his Ukrainian counterpart Petro Poroshenko as Kazakh President Nursultan Nazarbayev stands nearby, in Minsk on Tuesday. NSDC      FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Srdjan ZivulovicA competitor leaps up the air during a bridge jumping competition in Kanal ob Soci.The bad news out of Europe just doesn't seem to end. Earlier today, we learned that the number people unemployed in Germany unexpectedly climbed by 2,000 in August. Economists were expecting this number to decline by 5,000. The unemployment rate in Europe's largest economy held at 6.7%. The eurozone's consumer confidence index fell to 100.6 in August from 102.2 in July. This was worse than the 101.5 expected by economists. All of this bad and worse-than-expected news only confirms the string of awful data recently coming out of the eurozone, where growth has grinded to zero and prices are going nowhere. "Based on sentiment surveys, the eurozone is off to a poor start in Q3, and while we are yet to see any decisive hard data, it does not leave much optimism for a strong rebound in GDP growth," said Pantheon Macroeconomics' Claus Vistesen. "Flagging business confidence makes sense given tensions in Ukraine, poor economic data and weakness in equity prices." All of this bad news further bolsters the market's expectations that the European Central Bank will fire back with further monetary stimulus. "We stand ready to adjust our policy stance further," said ECB President Mario Draghi on Friday at the Kansas City Fed's Economic Policy Symposium in Jackson Hole, Wyoming. "A more aggressive ECB should help towards the end of the year, but the overall picture remains of an economy struggling not only to grow, but simply to maintain the status quo," said Vistesen. FREE AppDownload
Societe GeneraleAlbert Edwards.The stock market hit an all-time record high on Wednesday, with the S&amp;P 500 closing at 2,000.10. Societe Generale's Albert Edwards warns that the forces that have been driving the market forward are not only unstable, but they're also about to reverse. "The equity bubble has disguised the mountain of net debt piling up on U.S. corporate balance sheets," Edwards writes. "This is hitting home now QE has ended. The end of the buyback bonanza may well prove to be decisive for this bubble." Let's unpack this a bit. In their efforts to stimulate the economy, the Federal Reserve and some of its central bank peers have been buying bonds, which has helped keep credit markets very liquid and interest rates very low. This stimulus is called quantitative easing or QE. Corporations around the world have taken advantage of the cheap and easy credit markets by borrowing money to refinance debt and buy back stock. Indeed, it appears that much of the net increases to debt have actually gone completely toward net decreases to outstanding equity. Check out this chart from Edwards: Societe Generale And that's not all. According to Federal Reserve data, corporations have by far been the biggest buyer of stocks since the beginning of the bull market in 2009. Check out the purple bars in this chart. Societe Generale "In retrospect there can be little doubt that QE has washed through the financial markets and elevated share prices via this route," Edwards writes. Edwards joins several others who warn about buybacks slowing. The issue is that with QE ending and with corporate profits and cash flow growth expected to slow, these buybacks will inevitably begin to disappear. "Indeed — is that a hissing I can hear?" Edwards asks. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA man walks in front of China Life headquarters building at Beijing's Financial StreetHONG KONG (Reuters) - China Huarong Asset Management Co Ltd, the country's biggest bad-debt manager, said on Thursday regulators have approved a deal for it to sell a 20.98 percent stake to a consortium of eight investors for 14.5 billion yuan ($2.4 billion). The deal for new shares in the company is to raise funds for Huarong ahead of a planned initial public offering, Reuters reported in July. The consortium includes China Life Insurance (Group) Co &lt;601628.SS&gt;, U.S. private equity firm Warburg Pincus [WP.UL], Goldman Sachs &lt;gs.n&gt;, CITIC Securities International Co Ltd &lt;600030.SS&gt;, Malaysian sovereign wealth fund Khazanah Nasional Bhd [KHAZA.UL], COFCO Corp [CNCOF.UL], Fosun International &lt;0656.HK&gt; and International Capital Corp. The investors will improve corporate governance and operations at the company, said Huarong chairman Lai Xiaomin. Huarong, which was founded in 1999, will also launch partnerships with the investors in areas like asset management, investment and financing, investment banking and financial leasing, the firm said. State-owned bad-debt managers like Huarong are benefiting from a rise in non-performing loans in China as the economy slows. The company had assets worth $65.7 billion under management at end-2013 and its net profit for last year jumped 44 percent to 10.1 billion yuan. The deal was signed at Huarong's Beijing headquarters on Thursday.   (Reporting by Stephen Aldred; Editing by Denny Thomas and Matt Driskill) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlos Campana European markets are down early Thursday.  Here's the scorecard: France's CAC 40 is down 0.4%. Germany's DAX is down 0.6%.  Spain's IBEX is up 0.6%. Italy's FTSE MIB is down 0.9%. Britain's FTSE 100 down 0.2%. Asian markets closed down, with Nikkei's 225 closing down 0.5% and Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index closing down 0.7%. U.S. futures are down, with Dow futures down 19 points and S&amp;P futures down 2.3 points. Thursday's selling follows Wednesday's modest gains. The S&amp;P 500 closed at an all-time high of 2,000.10. Earlier, we learned the number of jobless Germans made a small but unexpected jump in August, with the number of unemployed people increasing by 1,000. Later in the U.S., we'll get jobless claims, GDP, and housing data. Economists estimate weekly initial jobless claims ticked up to 300,000 from 298,000 a week ago.  Q2 GDP is expected to be revised downward to 3.9% from 4.0% a month ago.  The pace of pending home sales is expected to climb 0.5%. FREE AppDownload
Sean Gallup/Getty ImagesBERLIN (Reuters) - German unemployment posted a small but unexpected increase in August but the jobless rate held steady at just 6.7 percent, the Labour Office said on Thursday, suggesting the job market in Europe's largest economy remains intact. The number of people out of work increased by 1,000 to 2.901 million, seasonally-adjusted data showed. The mid-range forecast in a Reuters poll had been for a drop of 5,000. (Reporting by Michelle Martin) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Toru HanaiJapan Airlines aircraft parked on the tarmac at Haneda Airport in Tokyo TOKYO (Reuters) - Japan Airlines &lt;9201.T&gt; said on Thursday that it will buy as many as 32 Mitsubishi Regional Jets and will order 15 regional aircraft from Brazil's Embraer SA &lt;embr3.sa&gt; with options to purchase as many as 12 more. Japan Airlines in a release said it will deploy the MRJs on domestic routes from 2021.   (Reporting by Tim Kelly; Editing by Ryan Woo) FREE AppDownload
NOAA Good morning! Here's what people will be talking about Thursday: 1. The conflict in eastern Ukraine is heating up with new reports that pro-Russian rebels are moving into the southeastern Ukrainian town of Novoazovsk. Two separate militia members told Reuters that military equipment was also being sent across the border with Russia.  2. Australian officials may have a fresh break in the search for the missing Malaysia Airlines jet. A failed satellite phone call made by the airline ground staff to the Flight 370 after it disappeared may show that the plane "turned south earlier than previously thought," The Wall Street Journal reports.  3. Hurricane Cristobal has been blamed for at least seven deaths, including a New Jersey teenager who got stuck in a rip current generated by the storm, The Weather Channel reports. The hurricane moved over Bermuda on Wednesday but is not expected to strike the U.S. 4. Time Warner Cable said a massive outage to internet service in the U.S. on Wednesday was caused by an "erroneous configuration" during "overnight network maintenance activity in which we were managing IP addresses." 5. Samsung has released the first smartwatch, called the Gear S, that can make calls without a cell phone nearby. The announcement comes right after LG unveiled its new G Watch R smartwatch.  6. There's a fierce bidding war between Telefonica and Telecom Italia over Brazilian internet provider GVT. Spain's Telefonica increased its early August bid for GVT to $9.83 billion within minutes of Telecom Italia's $9.25 billion offer.  7. A crewmember for the popular T.V. show "Cops" was shot and killed while filming an armed robbery in Omaha, Nebraska. “We are deeply saddened and shocked by this tragedy, and our main concern is helping his family in any way we can,” the show's production company said in a statement.  8. JPMorgan and at least four other U.S. banks were victims of cyberattacks this month, four people familiar with an ongoing investigation told The New York Times. "The hackers infiltrated the networks of the banks, siphoning off gigabytes of data, including checking and savings account information, in what security experts described as a sophisticated cyberattack," The Times said.   9. Emmanuel Macron has officially been named France's new economy minister, taking over for Arnuard Montebourg, who was forced out after making critical remarks about the country's economic policies.  10. British PM David Cameron is expected to make another attempt to convince voters in the Scottish independence referendum that separating from the U.K. will be bad for Scotland's economy. Speaking from Glasgow, Cameron will make the argument that "Scotland's financial services could lose 90% of their business if voters endorsed independence," The Guardian said.  And finally... California scientists say they have seen "sailing stones" in action for the first time, solving the mystery of how these heavy rocks move across a dry lake in Death Valley without human or animal intervention.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ina FassbenderGermanwings aircraft parked during a strike by pilots at Cologne airport in 2010.FRANKFURT (Reuters) - Pilots at Lufthansa's low-cost carrier Germanwings are to go on strike for six hours from 0400 GMT on Friday, labor union Vereinigung Cockpit (VC) said in a statement on Thursday. The union wants to put pressure on Lufthansa to maintain an early retirement scheme that allows pilots to retire at 55 and still keep some of their pay until they reach the age at which state pension payments start. Lufthansa and VC are due to return to the negotiating table later on Thursday. VC said in its statement that it would call off the strike at Germanwings on Friday if the talks led to an agreement.   (Reporting by Maria Sheahan; Editing by Matt Driskill) FREE AppDownload
