Wikimedia CommonsEurope’s economy has so often been the bearer of bad news of late that it seems almost a given that troublesome external trends would spell trouble for the continent. It would be easy to assume, then, that slowing Chinese growth and moderating global industrial activity might threaten the fragile European recovery. But that assumption would be wrong: Remarkably, Europe appears to be charting its own course of resiliency in 2014. The threats are not insignificant. First, China, which buys 7 percent of Europe’s exported goods, announced last week that its economy grew 7.4 percent in the first quarter, the slowest pace in a year and a half. The figure was slightly better than expected, but foreign direct investment, imports and exports all fell in the month of March, and property sales dropped in the first quarter. Second, global industrial production appears to be slowing. Credit Suisse’s Basic Metals Index, which tracks the chemicals, energy, materials, paper and transportation sectors, fell in March for the third consecutive month and posted a three-month average of -0.81, the lowest level since 2010. Credit Suisse maintains a “cautious” outlook on short-term industrial production and the bank recently lowered its 2014 global GDP forecast to 3.3 percent from 3.7 percent as a result. But Europe is forging ahead, however tentatively. Industrial production in the euro zone grew an encouraging 1.7 percent in February compared with a year earlier. The European Union’s Economic Sentiment Indicator rose to 102.4 in March, its highest level since 2011, driven “by markedly more confident consumers,” according to an E.U. report. And Markit Economics’ purchasing managers’ index had its largest quarterly gain in the three months ended March since 2011. Trends like these have Credit Suisse maintaining its forecast for slow-but-steady European growth of more than 1 percent this year. So how has the euro zone insulated itself? While it trades extensively with China, much of that exposure is made up of intermediate goods assembled there to satisfy demand elsewhere. It’s also important to note that Europe’s deep recession in 2011 and 2012 was largely separate from global trends: domestic demand fell sharply while it rose in the U.S. and Japan. Similarly, the recovery is a “homemade affair,” as Credit Suisse puts it. Domestic demand accounted for 0.6 percentage points of the 0.7 percent increase in euro area GDP between the first and final quarters of last year, a trend that is likely to continue, Credit Suisse analysts Christel Aranda-Hassel and Steven Bryce said in a report entitled “Tougher than the Rest.” Europe is also acting alone in terms of manufacturing inventories. Unlike in the U.S., where inventories swelled in the second half of last year and are now declining, companies in Europe liquidated their stockpiles at the end of 2013, which put a damper on growth at the time. The private sector was acting cautiously as it emerged from the recession, waiting to boost production until demand improved. The upside of that caution is that firms are now rebuilding their inventories, which Credit Suisse expects will further bolster industrial production. Of course, some risks to the recovery still remain. Strong investment in the fourth quarter of last year was partly a one-off phenomenon driven by policy. New legislation on vehicle emissions that went into effect at the end of 2013, for example, encouraged companies to stock up on purchases of commercial vehicles in December. As a result, transport equipment accounted for about 80 basis points of the 1.1 percent investment growth posted in the fourth quarter, according to Credit Suisse. The slowing of those purchases in the first quarter could push investment growth back down by 70 basis points in the first quarter. All that said, improving economic sentiment should boost corporate and consumer spending going forward, Credit Suisse says. And the improvement has breadth, both in in Europe’s largest economy and smaller southern economies that were hit hard in the recession. Germany’s central bank has said it expects strong growth in the first quarter, while Spain’s central bank estimates that economy will grow 1.2 percent this year. While the rest of the world is facing a slowdown in cyclical momentum, Europe, say Aranda-Hassel and Bryce, looks “resilient.” That’s the first time we’ve heard that in some time. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jason ReedPoppies are laid among the names of soldiers on the World War I Wall of Remembrance on the eve of ANZAC (Australian and New Zealand Army Corps) Day at the Australian National War Memorial in Canberra April 24, 2014.The first thing you should know in Australia today is it’s Anzac Day. RIP Diggers, we’re thinking of you. So lest we forget, here’s a stunning series of pics from the fateful day Australia became a nation at war by landing at Anzac Cove, Gallipoli. Markets rise. The Dow was dead flat but the NASDAQ was up 0.5% in the US session. Asian markets will be looking at that cue this morning following another mixed day yesterday, in which the ASX hit another post-GFC high but the Nikkei fell 1% and Shanghai was down half a point. Today we get Japanese inflation data, with the core figure expected to jump sharply to 2.8% from 1.0%. This will be the biggest rise in more than two decades and is a critical component of Shinzo Abe’s plan to reinvigorate the economy. Traders will be on guard for big moves in the Yen. And then onto the festivities. There’s not many events that make you feel more Australian than standing in the two-up ring on Anzac Day, shouting and standing over a $10 note. And if you’re on a roll, you should stick with it – science says so. Remember SARS? No? Well, you should, because the virus made headlines for all the right reasons back in the early 2000s, killing 10% of those it infected. Now its little cousins MERS has emerged, with a death ratio of nearly 30%. And it’s popped up in Saudi Arabia, just as a couple of million people start their annual Haj pilgrimage. Fighting words. India-based writer Rudolph Lambert Fernandez has penned a “first-of-its-kind forensic study” to prove why “Sachin Ramesh Tendulkar, not Bradman, is the greatest”. Obviously, it’s rubbish – here’s news.com.au’s Anthony Sharwood on why. In a win for all teh single laydeez, Beyoncé has been named TIME’s Most Influencial Person. She beat out the likes of President Obama, Hillary Clinton, Vladimir Putin, Pope Francis, Edward Snowden, “Gravity” director Alfonso Cuarón, and Miley Cyrus. “She’s the boss,” Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg wrote in a profile of the pop star. “Beyoncé doesn’t just sit at the table. She builds a better one.” Modern Family aired its Down Under special in the US last night, and boy did they roll out the cliches. But they’re not as bad as we’ve seen in the past, and Rhys Darby remains our favourite Kiwi we’d claim after his star turn. The Seppos loved it too, and took to Twitter with promises to visit. Treasurer Joe Hockey will have to slash $300bn out of government spending in the next 10 years if he is to meet his target surplus. Spending cuts will start slowly before climbing to $47 billion, $56 billion and $64 billion respectively in the three final years to 2023-24. Back to Anzac Day and the AFL’s annual locked-in Essendon-Collingwood clash has all the intensity of a grand final. Some might say it unfairly guarantees a decent windfall for the two clubs and makes a mockery of the draw, but Hawks legend Dermot Brereton makes a strong case for the clash. He played in the inaugural match when he defected to the Pies in ’95. This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Daniel MunozMichael Lewis, a master of making heroes and villains out of the everyday players in the financial markets, launched his book Flash Boys: A Wall Street Revolt with his customary blaze of publicity earlier this month. It attempts to explain how high frequency traders (HFTs) and dark pools – two separate but interlinked phenomena – are changing the way markets operate, and how this is disadvantaging to regular retail investors. The practices he talks about are alive and well in Australia, too. Perhaps not to the extent they occur in the US, due to the much larger number of exchanges and overall volume there, but they do happen here. High frequency trading is the practice of firms putting orders, or messages to amend or cancel an order, in at times many times faster than the speed it takes to blink your eyes. Somebody who can do that at a microsecond (one millionth of a second) faster than you, or anybody else, has the opportunity to exploit your position. By observing and placing countless messages, orders and amendments a day – the majority of which do not go through to execution – HFT traders are able to work out the direction of trades by people, usually mums and dads, but also institutional investors. They can then push up the price of stock a retail trader might be trying to buy – by going in and buying it at a cheaper price and then on-selling it to you at the higher price – all in a fraction of a blink of an eye. In such a scenario, your physical location matters. You will get a time advantage from being in the same facility that an exchange has it servers. Zachary May, director of policy at Industry Super Australia puts it like this: “The ASX can respond to an order in a colocation facility faster than light can travel from Sydney to Perth,” he says. And that means if you are an investor in Perth, there is no way you can beat the high frequency traders located in Sydney, and especially not those collocated with the exchange. HFT traders do influence prices and outcomes for investors. A US research paper – The Trading Profits of High Frequency Traders [pdf], by Matthew Baron, Princeton University, Jonathan Brogaard, Foster School of Business, University of Washington and Andrei Kirilenko, Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) – found that HFTs make on average $0.25 per trade. “This equates to $18,799 per day for each HFT in the August 2010 E-mini S&amp;P 500 contract alone,” the paper said. There has yet to be any major analysis in Australia of how often retail or institutional traders come off better, or worse, when they engage with high frequency traders. To do such an analysis you would have to have information on who is on both sides of a trade, which is usually confidential, and currently only available to the Australian Securities and Investments Commission. ASIC has not released comprehensive analysis of this audit trail data information. And ASIC would not answer direct questions to why it does not analyse, or release analysis of, this data. A spokesperson repeated the results of existing studies, specifically Report 331 Dark Liquidity and High Frequency Trading [pdf], and said that “in reality”, existing rules were sufficient to deal with the use of trading technology. “ASIC’s study into high frequency trading in the Australian markets found no fundamental deterioration of market quality, or systematic abuse that threatens the integrity of our market. Rather, we found the Australian market, which is less fragmented than the US, to be one of high quality and integrity,” the spokesperson said in a written response to questions from Business Insider. But profiting is neither abuse nor manipulation. If it consistently happens to one side, over another, due to some sort of advantage, it is just unfair. Dark pools are essentially off-market pools of liquidity but as Trent Hayes, head of investment trading and execution at the $75 billion AustralianSuper notes, they have been given a very unfortunate name. He suggests they would be better off being calling liquidity pools. Dark pools were designed to enable investors with large trades to find and trade with other large orders in the same stock. This enables both the buyer and seller to trade a large order at the market price. Hayes says a well-managed dark pool offers less risk of information leakage, which can occur when a large order is sliced into many small orders and executed on the lit (public) market. To ensure the market remains informed of the transactions in a stock, trades in dark pools are reported to an exchange as they occur. If AustralianSuper goes to market with a large buy trade in BHP, for example, they are at risk of information leakage. If the market works out a large order is being traded, the price could be bid up, making it harder for AustralianSuper – which is the retirement funds of millions of Australians – to get the best price. Being in charge of executing equity trades for a part of AustralianSuper’s assets, some of which are now managed in house, Hayes has used dark pools before. “From my point yes I have [used dark pools]. But that being said, I think you still need to be careful about who could be on the other side of it,” Hayes says. And knowing who might be in the dark pool is key. That onus is currently on the investor who is looking to trade, but operators of large dark pools are listening to clients and are asking some participants to leave, if that’s what other clients are demanding. Hayes says many of the brokers are now starting to control their dark pools and may offer two, one for internal matching and one that is open to other brokers, so users can try and control who they are interacting with. “There has been a bit of pressure from the clients about who they are wiling to match,” Hayes says. The “meaningful price improvement” rule, introduced by ASIC in May last year, meant that traders in dark pools had to trade at prices at the midpoint between the buy and sell spread or no greater than one tick up or down. A further rule of enhanced data for supervision introduced in October last year means that operators must now collect additional data on orders and trades and on whether participants are acting as a principal or agent. ISA’s May says that while investor protection in dark pools is important, it often becomes a distraction and an issue that people raise when they are trying to take attention off high frequency trading. He says a dark pool, prior to the introduction of the meaningful price improvement rule, was a place many traders went to try to get away from high frequency traders, as long as they were fairly confident of who was in the dark pool with them. In France a high frequency trading tax has been introduced. This tax kicks in on messages to trade, rather than actual trades, if the message to trade ratio is too high. In France this is defined as messages above a cancellation or modification rate of 80 per cent. The Financial Services Council in its submission to ASIC mentioned a similar proposal back in early 2013 on options for amending the ASIC market supervision cost recovery arrangements. Another solution could be introducing a system that could slow down the high frequency traders, which is exactly what the heroes of the Michael Lewis book – the former Royal Bank of Canada traders, who started up their own exchange IEX – did when they built “Thor”. That was a tool that built delays into the stock exchange orders so they could all arrive at an exchange at the exact same time. May says that over a year ago, ISA proposed the use of electronic call auctions in Australia, which would have a similar effect to Thor. Electronic call auctions were also included in its submission to the ongoing Financial System Inquiry. IEX was established on the same philosophy as “Thor”. A similar exchange would work just as well in Australia but setting up a new exchange is a time consuming process. It took years for Chi-X to go through the right hoops to be able to set up here, although one might hope that an exchange that promised a fair outcome for all, even if it did compete with the incumbent, would be granted a bit more leeway. Follow Business Insider Australia on Facebook, Twitter, and LinkedIn This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Tomas BravoChina's low-cost labor force wages, weak yuan, and high investment helped make it a manufacturing and exporting hub.  But over time, as the yuan appreciated, wage inflation ticked up, and supply chains became more complicated, multinationals started exploring other options. In what's been dubbed the American manufacturing renaissance, many U.S. companies have been reshoring operations. However, another big beneficiary of rising Chinese labor costs and U.S. economic growth has been Mexico. This has come despite concerns about crime and safety. Mexico benefits from the North America Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). At 44, it also has more free-trade agreements than any other country. Mexico also benefits from having its natural gas prices tied to those in the U.S. where prices are substantially lower relative to the rest of the world. Average electricity costs are about 4% lower in Mexico than in China, and the average price of industrial natural gas is 63% lower, according to a study by the Boston Consulting Group. The same study found that by 2015, average manufacturing-labor costs in Mexico are projected to be 19% lower than in China. In 2000, Mexican labor was 58% more expensive than in China. First, let's take a look at what's been going on in China. The average urban, non-private-sector wage in China has climbed 14.2% per year between 2002 and 2012. While average wages in the private sector have grown at a slower pace, they too have grown. The key figure to watch is unit labor costs.  "As productivity gains slowed in recent years, the continued rapid wage growth has led to a robust growth in ULC – averaging more than 5% a year since 2008 in the urban non-private sector," according to  Tao Wang, a China economist for UBS. Of course this is also in part because the yuan has appreciated over 25% against the U.S. dollar since January 2007. This appreciation (despite the recent modest depreciation) has hurt China, since "many of China's competitors and trading partners saw their currency weakening against the green back," writes Wang. China's unit labor cost has grown over 60% since 2007, in U.S.-dollar terms, which is the fastest growth among trading partners and competitors in part because of yuan appreciation, explains Wang. In terms of labor-intensive manufacturing exports, China has lost market share to Vietnam and Bangladesh. But "in the transport equipment and parts sector, China has lost market share to Mexico in both the US and the EU," writes Wang. This chart shows China has lost market share to Mexico: UBS And this is good news for the U.S., too. "It’s also good for America, since products made in Mexico contain four times as many U.S.-made parts, on average, as those made in China," said Harold L. Sirkin, a senior partner at Boston Consulting Group in a report on Mexico's growing cost advantage. China's ongoing economic growth and aging workforce means labor costs are likely to continue rising. All of this means Mexico will be a winner for years to come. FREE AppDownload
ReutersFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Investors Are Taking On Increasing Risk But Should Rebalance (BlackRock Blog) Recent Fed data shows that investors have moved into riskier investments after the financial crisis. Americans now hold 34.9% of their financial assets in riskier investments (stocks, corporate bonds, and mutual funds), slightly below the highest in Q1 2000, when investors had 38.4% exposure to riskier investments, writes BlackRock's Russ Koesterich. " I still think that an improving global economy and growing corporate incomes will support risky assets over the balance of 2014." That being said, he thinks investors should "consider some strategies to build some ballast into their portfolios, such as rebalancing with a tilt toward value." They should rebalance their portfolios and think about taking on some of the previous years' losers.  "As for where the value is, I still believe stocks offer better value than bonds, even after a five-year bull market. Within stocks, the shift toward value from growth supports my preference for large cap and mega cap names over small cap stocks, as well as my preference for international equities and less expensive sectors of the equity market, such as energy and technology." Brokerages Are Trying Out New Pay Models To Attract Millennials (Investment News)  As the financial advisor industry sees a generational shift its also trying out new pay models to attract Millennials, writes Mason Braswell at Investment News. Some are trying out models that focus on salary over commissions. "I grew up in the industry when commission was the only way you did it," Devin DeStefano at Wells Fargo, said at an industry conference. "We are going to try something different and pair salary with commission over time." Howard Marks' Brilliant Observation On What It Takes To Be A Great Investor (Bloomberg TV)  Oak Tree Capital's Howard Marks told Bloomberg TV's Stephanie Ruhle and Erik Schatzker what it takes to be a great investor. "Well, I think that -- the big question is how much of your time, effort, and capital will you -- and self-esteem will you risk in the effort of trying to be right? And how much will you spend trying to avoid being wrong?" Marks said. "They are two different things.  And in order to be -- have a shot at being really right, you got to have a shot at being really wrong." Marks also said that "almost everything in investing is symmetrical. And it’s the symmetry that people are leery of.  It’s not -- they’re not, as you point out, Erik, they're not afraid to make money, they’re not afraid to be great.  They’re afraid to have a big mistake on their hands." Advisors Should Direct Asset Allocation Based On Fed Cycles (The Wall Street Journal) "Sector performance patterns are closely correlated to the Federal Reserve's monetary policy cycle," writes Steve Krawick, president of West Chester Capital Advisors in a new WSJ column. We are currently in the fourth phase in which the Fed is exercising accommodative policy with low interest rates. "Historically, in this environment, consumer discretionary stocks and financials have outperformed S&amp;P benchmarks and their peer sectors," Krawick writes. "So, during this cycle, we have our clients overweight in that sector and underweight in others like industrials, materials, and technologies, which tend to underperform under current conditions." But the Fed will soon transition to the first phase, when the Funds rate rises, and when industrials, materials, and technologies that are underperforming will come out on top.  "Using Fed policy cycles to direct allocation isn't rocket science and it's not revolutionary. But when advisers are able to anticipate sector performance, we can effectively and strategically reduce clients' risk exposure and hopefully provide them with fewer sleepless nights." Maslow’s Hierarchy Of Credit Bubbles (Brean Capital) Peter Tchir, head of macro strategy at Brean Capital, recent wrote that there isn't a credit bubble and now recommends "going long Credit – with IG CDS as the favorite way, followed by AAA CLO or off the run high yield and leveraged loans." "There will still be trading opportunities to get short credit, I just don’t think that now is the time, and although I think we are not in a bubble, the easy money has been made and we are closer to the top than the bottom of the cycle." Brean Capital FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Dan R. Krauss/Getty ImagesStarbucks reported Q2 earnings of $0.56 per share, in line with expectations. Revenue of $3.87 billion came in shy of expectations for $3.95 billion. The coffee maker saw global comp store sales up 6%. Comp sales for the Americas was up 6%.  Starbucks saw its China and Asia Pacific revenue up 24% to $265.3 million. Comp sales in the region were up 7%. "While global comparable store sales growth of 6% was impressive, and squarely in line with our targets, even more significant is the fact that we delivered strong, and balanced, revenue and profit growth across all of our reportable segments," said Howard Schultz, Ceo of Starbucks in a press release."The strong momentum we have created in the first half of the year, combined with our robust pipeline of innovation, give us confidence in our ability to meet our fiscal 2014 growth targets." The release didn't include commentary abou the drought in Brazil that drove up coffee prices. Starbucks repurchased 3.5 million shares in the second quarter and declared a cash dividend of $0.26 per share, payable on May 23, 2014. The stock is up 1% after hours. Click here to refresh » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Darren WhitesideIt was a surprisingly low-volatility day considering the amount of news that came out today. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
The College Board found that the average college student spends $1,200 per year on textbooks and supplies. According to a study by the Student Public Interest Research Group (Student PIRGs), that's about 39% of tuition and fees at a community college or 14% at a four-year public institution. Textbook price inflation is only exacerbating the debt burden on students.   The Student PIRGs study argued that the market is flawed in the publishing industry. "In a typical market, there is a direct relationship between consumer and provider," they noted. "The consumer exercises control over prices by choosing to purchase products that are a good value, and the competition forces producers to lower costs and meet demand. "In the textbook industry, no such system of checks and balances exist. The professor chooses the book, but the student is forced to pay the price. Because of this, the student is, in essence, a captive market. Without the ability of the student to choose a more affordable option, publishers are able to drive prices higher without fear of repercussion." Mark Perry, professor of economics at the Flint campus of The University of Michigan, tweeted a chart, that shows just how ridiculous the rise in text book prices has been.  Mark J Perry via Twitter FREE AppDownload
Last year the percentage of people leasing new cars rather than buying jumped from 22% to 26% according to Edmunds.com. The overall lease percentage rose to 28% in the first quarter of 2014. Everybody's doing it but is it a good idea for you? Produced by Sara Silverstein. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
FREE AppDownload
On Friday I did a piece titled “There is NOT a Credit Bubble” and just this morning, I recommended cutting all CDX IG22 shorts, and going long Credit – with IG CDS as the favorite way, followed by AAA CLO or off the run high yield and leveraged loans. There will still be trading opportunities to get short credit, I just don’t think that now is the time, and although I think we are not in a bubble, the easy money has been made and we are closer to the top than the bottom of the cycle. Brean Capital FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVHoward Marks.Billionaire asset manager Howard Marks, the chairman and co-founder of Oaktree Capital, was on Bloomberg TV today talking about what it means to "be great" when it comes to investing.  Marks, who's famous on the Street for his widely read investor letters, recently put out his "Dare to Be Great II" memo. His first "Dare to Be Great" memo came out in 2006. "The big question is how much of your time, effort, and capital — and self-esteem — will you risk in the effort of trying to be right?  And how much will you spend trying to avoid being wrong? They are two different things. And in order to be — to have a shot at being really right — you got to have a shot at being really wrong," he said.  Essentially, to be great, you have to be different and willing to fail. Marks' observation can be applied broadly. But his letter was really tailored for investors. "Most great investments begin in discomfort," he wrote. "The things most people feel good about — investments where the underlying premise is widely accepted, the recent performance has been positive and the outlook is rosy — are unlikely to be available at bargain prices. Rather, bargains are usually found among things that are controversial, that people are pessimistic about, and that have been performing badly of late." Here's a transcript from Bloomberg TV:  STEPHANIE RUHLE:  Now I’m excited for this next segment.  How can investors achieve superior results?  We are asking one of Wall Street's greatest minds, Howard Marks.  He’s the founder and chairman of Oaktree Capital.  He is well-known for his memos to clients and his latest -- “Daring Investors to Be Great”.  Actually, “Daring Investors to Be Great 2”.  It’s the second edition.  His first was just a few years ago.  We’re going to find out what he means. Howard, welcome.  It’s not just Erik and I who are fans of these letters.  Warren Buffet himself has said how much he loves them.  So here you are, out with your latest, “Dare to be Great 2”.  What does that mean?  HOWARD MARKS:  Well, it’s directed primarily, Stephanie, at professional investors who have to be concerned with how they’ll be perceived.  And I wrote “Dare to Be Great 1” in ’06 and I’ve been thinking about it and everybody dares to be great.  I mean, who wouldn’t dare to have great performance?  The real question I ask in the memo is do you dare to do the things you have to do to be great?  RUHLE:  What are those things?  MARKS:  Do you dare to be different?  Do you dare to be wrong?  And do you dare to look wrong?  Because you have to dare to be all three of those in order to have a shot at great results.  ERIK SCHATZKER:  Howard, you say everyones dares to be great -- maybe everybody dreams.  RUHLE:  Ah. SCHATZKER:  Of being great. MARKS:  Well said.   SCHATZKER:  It’s pretty certain that not everybody dares to be great because so many money managers just bat average, right? MARKS:  I guess what I mean is they’re willing to be great.  SCHATZKER:  Or they would love to be great.  MARKS:  Yes. SCHATZKER:  So let's go into more detail about what it takes to be great.  What do most money managers do, most institutional investors, what do they do?  And then what do the ones who stand out from the rest of the crowd do?  MARKS:  Well, I think that -- the big question is how much of your time, effort, and capital will you -- and self-esteem will you risk in the effort of trying to be right?  And how much will you spend trying to avoid being wrong?  They are two different things.  And in order to be -- have a shot at being really right, you got to have a shot at being really wrong.   RUHLE:  So right now, for example, where would one say we’re seeing people trying hard to get it right, daring to be different?  MARKS:  I think that the people who are buying the social media stocks at the very high prices are trying to be great.  They’re trying to -- they have seen it go from $10 to $40, and now they want to go from $40 to $200.  Clearly -- I mean I can’t imagine they think it’s a low risk strategy, but I think most people drive, look in the rearview mirror, they see what’s happened, they’re dreaming of an extrapolation.  RUHLE:  Well, aren’t they afraid to not be on the train?  Last year when so many people saw the fundamental problems with the economy, they were fools if they weren’t long on the market, so they piled in just so they wouldn’t underperform the S&amp;P.  MARKS:  Well, there is -- I mean, the fear of being out of step is a great fear, and I believe that perhaps the most corrosive of all human emotions is having to sit there and watch other people make money when you’re not.  And then of course if you’re a professional and other people make money and you’re not, then you could lose your accounts, lose your job, whatever it might take.  SCHATZKER:  OK, there’s no question you are right.  You feel that way, lots of people feel that way.  Why is it then that the majority, the vast majority, of investors aren’t willing to take those risks?   MARKS:  Well, because if you take the risks to try to be right, you know you’re not going to be right 100 percent --  SCHATZKER:  You could be wrong.  MARKS:  You could be wrong.  And if you are wrong a few times in a row, then you look at it, maybe you lose your job, maybe you lose your client.  SCHATZKER:  Well, that’s what I was going to say.  Is it because they’re chicken?  They’re about worried about losing their jobs, which, let’s be honest, is a legitimate fear for many people?  Or is it because in some cases -- or it is a combination of the two? -- their clients won't let them.  MARKS:  Well --  SCHATZKER:  I mean, all clients in theory, all -- whoever they are, pension funds, endowments, the folks who sign up institutional investors to manage their money, want great returns.  But they too are concerned -- (CROSSTALK)  MARKS:  They don’t really want great returns, they want good enough returns.  Most of our clients in the professional world constrain us.  They say you can only have so much per company, so much per industry, so much per country, and we spend a lot of time negotiating these constraints.  They don’t say, oh, if you think that China’s great, put all the money in there.  They say, oh, you like China?  You’re allowed to put in up to 6 percent, you know?  Because if you put in all the money, you could be wrong.  I say in the memo, and I think the one thing that I’ve carried around that occasioned a return to the topic, was my conviction based on my experience -- that the main role among investing institutions, pension funds, endowments, sovereign wealth funds, et cetera, insurance companies -- "we would never do so much of something that, if it turned out to be a mistake, we would look bad. " Now, that makes perfect sense.  Nobody wants to look bad.  However --  RUHLE:  How do you hit a home run?  MARKS:  Well, that’s the point.  If you -- you have to accept that the converse is "we would never do enough so that if it turns out to be a good thing, we’ll move the needle."  The two have to go together.  You can’t do enough to make a difference on the upside but not enough to get you into trouble on the downside.  And almost everything in investing is symmetrical.  And it’s the symmetry that people are leery of.  It’s not -- they’re not, as you point out, Erik, they're not afraid to make money, they’re not afraid to be great.  They’re afraid to have a big mistake on their hands.  RUHLE:  You say most great investments start with discomfort.  MARKS:  Yes, that’s right.  RUHLE:  Is there an investment right now that feels uncomfortable?  MARKS:  There’s nothing that is sufficiently out-of-favor today, and sufficiently neglected, to be a great buy. I continue to believe that public money is flooding in to the risky sectors, supporting the prices, and the -- and supporting the prices  from my standpoint, I’m not -- that is not a good thing, that is a bad thing, which means making them expensive.  Where’s the public money not going. Where can't it go? Private investments. Only the pros really can make private investments.  RUHLE:  They’re the only ones with access.   MARKS:  That’s right. Well, and there are no mutual funds or ETFs for private debt, for example, or very few. And so I think that private investments are more shunned or less popular, and thus cheaper than public investments.  SCHATZKER:  If the success of your approach to investing relies on finding these uncomfortable areas of credit markets, is it a good thing or a bad thing for things like ETFs that invest in private credit to emerge?  Do you want to see more money chasing these -- so that more people have an opportunity to find these uncomfortable options?  MARKS:  No, I’m not in favor of democracy in this regard. I’d like to have these markets myself.   (LAUGHTER) MARKS:  It’s unlikely. If you go back 36 years ago, when I started Citibank’s high yield bond fund, most people wouldn’t do them, they called them junk funds.  RUHLE:  For a reason. MARKS:  90 percent of -- no, for a bad reason, Stephanie, but 90 percent of investing organizations had a rule These things were considered imprudent and improper and Moody’s said "fails to possess the characteristics of a desirable investment."  Most people would -- SCHATZKER:  Prudent is a bad word in investing, isn’t it? MARKS:  It is. It’s a limiting word, because it’s a value judgement.  And 36 years ago, people would say, oh, I would never invest enough. Maybe you could make a lot of money, but it wouldn’t be right.  Today, within the bounds of reason and legality, I hope, everybody will do anything to make a buck. So there are very few of these orphaned markets today. That makes it harder for us to find spectacular bargains.   RUHLE: Anything to make a buck. I don’T want to get into any of the details of it, but for you who is so thoughtful in every word that you write, when Michael Lewis had the headline “The market is rigged,” what was your response? How did you feel? MARKS:  I thought that was hyperbole. I thought it was an exaggeration. What he’s talking about is hundredths of a cent per share. And so it’s not right, it’s not fair, but it doesn’t mean you can’t make money in the market. It doesn’t mean that you think you’re going to make 20 percent but you’re really only going to make 6. It means you think you’re going to make 20?  Well, you’re only going to make 19.96 percent.  And -- that's number one. And number two, I think it really only applies to big institutional orders. Those are the ones that send the fast traders systems signals that more buying is coming, and those are the ones you can take advantage of. But the mom and pop who puts in for 100 shares, 1,000 shares, and gets their order done, they’re not, I don’t think, being ripped off.  So I thought it was an exaggeration.  RUHLE:  Finally, a thoughtful, experienced, fantastic response to a headline we’ve all been screaming about  for two weeks.  Watch below:    FREE AppDownload
The oil rich Bakken shale formation has helped reshape North Dakota.  The USGS  says the Bakken formation has estimated mean oil resource of 3.65 billion barrels of oil. This has helped get the U.S. well on its way to energy independence.  Naturally, as the economy continues to recover, many have flocked to North Dakota for jobs — the state is said to have a 3% unemployment rate. What's more these are high paying jobs.  Mark Perry, professor of economics at the Flint campus of The University of Michigan, tweeted this chart that shows that North and South Dakota had about the same per-capita income for 80 years. But the oil boom pushed North Dakota's per capita income by $11,500. Mark Perry/Business Insider FREE AppDownload
StarbucksStarbucks will report earnings this afternoon.  In November, analysts at Morgan Stanley highlighted four major growth opportunities for Starbucks based on a presentation by company executives.  None of the growth opportunities directly involve coffee, Starbucks' signature product.  Instead, executives should focus on food, tea, and soda.  These topics are likely to come up when Starbucks discusses earnings today.  1. The Boulange Bakery. Starbucks is in the process of replacing its traditional pastries with sweets from the La Boulange brand, a longtime San Francisco favorite. In addition to offering more edgy "sweet and savory" items, Starbucks is now heating up all pastries before they're served to customers. "Results are getting better as more cities are added, with strongest adoption on the coasts," the authors write.  2. Drive-thrus. Starbucks is continuing to add drive-thrus at locations across America, which Morgan Stanley calls a "meaningful sales driver." Two-thirds of units Starbucks is building this year have drive-thrus, according to the note.  3. Lunch. Starbucks is testing lunch soups and sandwiches at certain locations. Menu items include barbecue pulled pork sandwiches, chicken noodle soup, and a grilled chicken chipotle panini. "Lunch test is still in early stage but we see it as big incremental opportunity," the analysts write.  4. Soda and tea. Starbucks is currently rolling out more carbonated beverages and Teavana teas, categories that will expand to all locations by the end of 2014. Starbucks also plans to add as many as 1,000 Teavana cafes in the next few years.  FREE AppDownload
Harold And Kumar Go To WhitecastleWall Street is a career of stages and rites of passage. First, you're an intern, then you're an analyst, and after analyst you're an associate ... and then there comes a fork in the road, and with that fork comes a crisis. The fork looks like this: If you continue with your career in finance, either you will become one of the few hundred people who make a real difference in markets or you will become a part of an army of modelers, deal builders, and paper pushers. Either you're confident you'll be in the former or you must be content with being in the latter. If not, prepare for a crisis. “I don’t know how anyone works for Blackstone, or Bank of America, or Goldman Sachs. I don’t think I could ever do that," said one private equity analyst in his late 20s who preferred not to give his name. "You’re just like one cog in this enormous machine ... I guess the smaller the machine, the less you feel like a cog. I’m a small gear. I’d like to be a bigger gear. Or at best, run my own machine.” This goes especially for the type A people. The ones who made it a point to do everything right: the right school, the right job, the right life. They want to leave a legacy, and on Wall Street that's incredibly hard to do. People usually only talk about this after a few drinks. The conversation starts like this: "I'm thinking of joining a startup." The tech sector has created a new kind of highly paid alternative to finance. It's one with fewer formalities and red tape and busy work. It's more creative because you get to create something tangible — at least that's the dream. In reality, finance people in the tech sector are using the same skills they were using on Wall Street. The difference is culture. "Paying your dues" is a part of Wall Street culture at a lot of firms. Everyone is meant to know his or her place, especially those at the bottom. This can make young people feel as if they have no stake in the firm. "You need formal mentoring that is taken seriously, and everyone has to be treated like they could run the firm one day," said another young analyst at a buy-side firm. "I think at startups and smaller companies you can see yourself progressing as the company progresses." The analyst said at one of the bulge-bracket banks, the career-development officer did little more than play favorites. "It actually harmed morale more than it helped," the analyst said. Now, the Googles of the world need deal structures and financial modelers. However, especially for those with jobs that require specific skills, such as trading credit derivatives, leaving Wall Street is more of a pipe dream than anything else. "The fear of unknown tends to keep people in their place," said Jesse Marrus, founder of financial career matching site StreetID. "It definitely does seem to me that there is frustration ... It's kind of silly to hear them [Wall Streeters] complain about compensation, but some of these guys ... the money becomes a trap." The trap isn't necessarily the money; it's the lifestyle. “People that are satisfied with money are inside their head and view the world from a 'me' perspective," said the buy-side analyst. "They’re happy with their ability to have a nice wedding and have a sweet apartment ... for them the means is the end.” For others, it can just be money without meaning. And then there's the question of time. As one happy trader told Business Insider, "My perception of investment bankers has always been that they want to make a lot of money without a lot of risk, but they all fail to realize that wasting time is the biggest risk of all." Hope you all can figure it out. FREE AppDownload
Stanford UniversityNina Khosla in a Stanford University video.Douglas Tarlow, a 27-year-old who dated the daughter of billionaire investor Vinod Khosla, has been charged with extortion.  Khosla is the founder of Sun Microsystems and venture capital firm Khosla Ventures, and he is worth an estimated $1.5 billion. Tarlow and his daughter, Nina, dated from 2008 - 2010 while they were students at Stanford University. During that time, Nina sent him naked photos and videos via text or instant message, which Tarlow allegedly threatened to make public if the Khoslas didn't pay him off. The Smoking Gun obtained the affidavit; we first saw the news on Valleywag. According to the March 3 court filing, Tarlow was employed by Nina's mother Neera's nonprofit and was promised a salary of $125,000. He was fired in early 2012. In mid-2012, Tarlow allegedly complained that he was owed more money by the company and started making threats. That's when the extortion seems to have started. The Smoking GunDouglas Tarlow, the ex-boyfriend of Nina Khosla, was arrested last week.From the affadavit: "On September 3, 2012, [victim] received a series of text messages ... At Approximately 5:12 PM, the victim received a text message containing one nude photograph that she provided to Tarlow during their relationship. Almost immediately following the receipt of the photographs at 5:12 PM, victim received the following text messages: 'Did you give out my #!?' and 'Shall I call you Paris [Hilton]?'" Two hours later, Nina Khosla allegedly received three more nude pictures of herself with the following message: "Expect to see those online in 24 hours. f--- you." A few days later, Tarlow allegedly emailed the Khoslas, stating that the company still owed him $72,000. In October, with the issues still not resolved, Nina Khosla received the following texts from an unknown number.  "Hey paris, playboy or penthouse?...Either way, and I mean this for real. please don't try to commit suicide." [all sic] TechCrunch Max Whitaker, via Flickr Creative Commons Commercial Use licenseBillionaire Vinod Khosla An anonymous email soon followed with the message:  "Everything is going to reddit. From there, it will be impossible to remove from the internet forever. Go find some blad and talk about how it feels so sharp on your skin you f---ing c--t. F--- YOU." Tarlow told Khosla the messages weren't sent by him. The Khoslas contacted the FBI, which allegedly found a number of alleged links between the messages and Tarlow. The investigator wrote in a federal court affidavit, "Notably, Tarlow was the subscriber of the Internet account used to send all four [anonymous] messages threatening to release the photographs" and "there is probable cause to believe that Tarlow was the sole communicator of all messages to [the victim] and her family." Tarlow was arrested last week, the Smoking Gun says. Business Insider reached out to Tarlow but did not immediately hear back. FREE AppDownload
From an economic perspective, a stock split is meaningless. It’s a bit like a baker who slices a pie. Slicing the pie creates more pieces and it even makes it easier to eat, but at the end of the day, it’s still just one pie. The same is true for a stock split. There are more shares after the split, but the market capitalization (i.e., the sum of the value of the shares) doesn’t change. So why split the stock? One often heard argument is that a stock split does increase the market cap because it makes the stock more marketable. In other words, investors are more willing to buy an $80 stock than than a $560 stock. If this is indeed true, then demand for the shares increases and they will appreciate at a higher rate than they would have if there had been no split. However, this argument is largely fallacious and there is little empirical evidence supporting it. At the very most, a stock split might signal management’s optimism about the company’s future prospects. After all, management probably wouldn’t split the shares if they thought the business was about to hit a rough patch and the stock price was about to fall. But if a split sends a signal, it probably won’t cause much more than a temporary rise in the stock price. Besides, there are other and more effective ways for management to signal its optimism. It could just say so in a press release or conference call. Or, it could increase the dividend or buyback shares. (Apple is doing these things, too). I heard one reporter on the radio argue that Apple’s stock split means that ordinary investors will finally be able to afford the stock. He said that at the current price, a 100 shares of stock costs a fortune; but after the split, more people will be able to buy 100 shares. This is a ridiculous argument. The last time I checked, there was no law that said you had to buy 100 shares at a time. Many years ago, investors did pay a bit of a penalty if they bought anything other than round lots (i.e., 100 share increments). Today, thanks to internet brokers, in most cases, it costs less than $10 no matter how many shares you buy. So, yes, the commission per share is higher if you buy fewer shares, but it’s still very low. In one regard, however, Apple’s stock split does make sense. By splitting the stock and bringing the price down to a more common level, Apple becomes eligible for membership in the prestigious Dow Jones Industrial Average. Unlike most other indexes, the Dow is price weighted. This means that higher priced stocks carry more weight in the index. The Dow committee is not likely to add a $500 stock to the index. Now that Apple is splitting the shares, don’t be surprised if it becomes a member of the Dow index. This article originally appeared at Money Masters Stock Report.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
About a year ago, while traveling, my bank turned off my credit card without telling me, as an anti-fraud measure. Of course, this happened right as I was trying to make a purchase. Admittedly, the bank was doing something most do: trying to stay one step ahead of card thieves. But what if there were a way to pair your card with your smartphone — implementing what is essentially two-factor authorization to purchases — to make sure it's always you handing the card over at a store? That's just one of the many features in a new app created by OnDot, a San Jose, California-based startup that's going to revolutionize the way we use the credit card. With OnDot's CardControl, users can turn a card on or off with one swipe, restrict purchases to certain geographical locations, get alerts whenever a transaction is made, view card history, and even hand off a card to a family member and restrict purchases to certain items. For instance, a parent could give a card to a son or daughter, set a spending limit of $20, and restrict them to purchasing items only found at grocery stores. Pretty incredible, right? Here's the best part: It can work with the cards you already have in your wallet. "Our system applies to every card," said Vaduvur Bharghavan, co-founder and chief executive officer of OnDot Systems. OnDot has been in "stealth-mode" for three years, fundraising, testing its product and developing business relationships. In that time, it's raised $18 million and perfected its product, in addition to partnering with four major credit card processors and 10,000 banks and credit unions across the U.S. OnDotEssentially, if a bank isn't already working with OnDot, all they would need to do is flip a switch and turn on the technology and customers can use CardControl either as a standalone app, or as an addition to a bank's existing mobile platform. There are so many possible uses for the app, it's hard to choose the best one: While there are plenty of features for consumers, banks partnered with OnDot have seen remarkable benefits as well. Lone Star National Bank saw fraud decrease dramatically, while consumers made more transactions and spent more money overall. Bharghavan says the reason is due to consumers having more trust in the OnDot-enabled card, pushing that one to "top-of-the-wallet" status. "We were able to decrease our fraud losses from $450,000 in 2012 to $180,000 in 2013, a reduction of over 60%," David Penoli, LSNB’s chief operating officer, said in a statement. "This has been a big breakthrough, and justifies the solution on its own." The company has 70 employees — many based in India — and is led by Bharghaven, who previously founded Meru Networks, a wireless networking company which had its IPO on the NASDAQ in March 2010. OnDot wouldn't provide Business Insider with specific revenue numbers, but Bharghaven did say the company makes its money through recurring fees charged to banks based on active users.  FREE AppDownload
Almost no one knows how to fold a fitted sheet properly. Impress your friends and loved ones right away by learning how to fold a fitted sheet perfectly. Produced by Will Wei. Additional camera by Matt Johnston. Follow BI Video: On Twitter
REUTERS/Darren WhitesideIt was a surprisingly low-volatility day considering the amount of news that came out today. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Garry JonesOne of the most interesting things that comes out of behavioral research is the situation in which people act as though they believe one thing and their actions cause the opposite outcome to occur. A study by University College London psychology professor Nigel Harvey and graduate student Juemin Xu, published in the May 2014 issue of Cognition, found that online gamblers on a betting website believed in one common gambling fallacy, the "gambler's fallacy," and this led to them experiencing an opposite effect, the "hot-hand fallacy" (via Cardiff Garcia). The hot-hand fallacy occurs when gamblers think that a winning streak is more likely to continue. This belief is based on the idea that having already won a number of bets improves the probability that they will win the next bet or the next number of bets. Luck will continue favoring them, and the same outcome of winning bets gets more likely the more times it happens. The gambler's fallacy works in the opposite direction. This is the idea that during a losing streak, it is likely that a gambler's luck will turn around and that they will start winning. Here, repeatedly getting the same outcome decreases the probability of that outcome occurring in the future. The problem with both of these, and the reason they're labeled fallacies, is the fact that, in most games of chance, subsequent outcomes are independent from each other. A roulette ball landing on red after one spin has zero effect on what happens on the next spin. A pair of dice landing on 7 on one roll doesn't do anything to the next roll. Each time the game is played, the universe essentially forgets all previous outcomes and starts from scratch. This independent nature of gambling games means that streaks have no particular meaning. Winning bets five times in a row has no effect on what happens on the sixth bet. This means that both the hot-hand fallacy, saying that winning many times in a row increases your chances of winning on the next bet, and the gambler's fallacy, saying that losing many times in a row increases your chances of winning on the next bet, are wrong. So, it's somewhat surprising that Xu and Harvey actually found evidence that the hot-hand effect really does happen. They analyzed the records of an online sports betting website, containing hundreds of thousands of bets on horse races, soccer games, and dog races. Amazingly, they saw that, the longer a streak went on, the more likely the gambler would win their next bet. Here's a chart from their paper showing this result, based on all bets made on the site in British pounds. The dotted line with circle markers shows the increasing probabilities for winning the next bet based on already having won a streak whose length is indicated on the horizontal axis. The solid line with triangle markers shows the probability of winning the next bet if you haven't had a streak of that length: Xu and Harvey, May 2014 The longer the winning streak, the more likely the next bet is also a win. Initially, looking at all the bets overall, 48% were winners. If you win your first bet, you have a slightly improved 49% chance of winning your second bet as well, higher than the 47% chance of winning if you lost your first bet. After that, the hot-hand effect takes off. People who won two bets in a row had a 57% chance of winning their third bet — far higher than the 45% chance of winning for people who didn't have a winning streak of two in a row. As the chart shows, the longer the streak went on, the more the odds of winning the next bet improved. By the time you won six bets in a row, you had a 76% chance — better than 3 in 4 — to win your seventh bet. Xu and Harvey also saw a mirror-image effect with losing streaks. The longer a losing streak a gambler was on, the more likely that they would continue to lose. The next chart from the paper shows this effect. The solid line with circle markers shows the probability of winning the next bet if you have already lost the number of bets indicated on the horizontal axis; the dotted line with triangles shows the probability of winning if you're not on a losing streak of that length: Xu and Harvey, May 2014 As losing streaks go on, the probability of winning the next bet drops. By the time you're on your sixth loss in a row, you have just a 23% chance of winning the seventh bet. What could cause this? The outcome of one horse race or soccer game shouldn't have any effect on the outcome of the next race or game that a gambler bets on. REUTERS/Alessandro GarofaloPeople wait for the start of a race at the San Siro horseracing center in Milan May 23, 2009.Maybe the people who experience winning streaks are better at placing bets than the people who don't get hot. Xu and Harvey compared the overall returns for gamblers who had at least one streak of getting six bets right in a row to the returns for the gamblers who didn't, and saw that there was no difference: Winning-streak gamblers had an average loss of £1.0078 for each pound they bet; non-streaky gamblers had an almost identical average loss of £1.0077. This rules out the idea that gamblers with winning streaks are better at picking winners. If they were, we would expect them to win more bets overall and make more money than non-streaky gamblers, which does not happen. Xu and Harvey then looked at what kinds of bets were being made by gamblers on both winning and losing streaks and found something amazing. Bettors were behaving as though the gambler's fallacy were true and that either a winning or losing streak meant that their luck was more likely to change on the next bet. This behavior actually could lead to the hot-hand effect we saw above. To see this, Xu and Harvey looked at the odds of winning for the next bet placed by gamblers on winning streaks and losing streaks. Gamblers on winning streaks became more conservative and started betting on races and games with better odds of winning, acting as though they believed that their luck was going to run out. Gamblers on losing streaks became more risk seeking, and started betting more on long shots, apparently believing in the classic gambler's fallacy that their luck would have to turn around sometime soon. The following chart shows this behavior. The odds against winning for gamblers on a losing streak with length indicated by the horizontal axis are shown on the dashed line with triangle markers, and the odds against winning for gamblers on a winning streak are shown on the solid line with circle markers. Higher odds against means a smaller chance that the bet will win. Xu and Harvey, May 2014 Players on losing streaks went for riskier and riskier bets, taking bets with higher odds against in the hope that a big payoff would make up for their losses. Players on winning streaks went in the opposite direction and made bets that were more likely to win as their streaks went on. This behavior could explain the hot-hand effect. If players on winning streaks are taking more likely bets, then that could lead to the streaks continuing. If players on losing streaks are taking riskier bets, then that could lead to their losing streaks continuing. The interesting part of this is that the gamblers appear to be behaving as though they believe in the gambler's fallacy, that winning or losing a bunch of bets in a row means that the next bet is more likely to go the other way. Their reactions to that belief — with winners taking safer bets under the assumption they're going to lose and losers taking long-shot bets believing their luck is about to change — lead to the opposite effect of making the streaks longer. FREE AppDownload
en.wikipedia.orgLONDON (Reuters) - London's landmark Gherkin office tower has been placed into receivership by its creditors, accountancy firm and joint receivers Deloitte said on Thursday, paving the way for a possible sale of the skyscraper. Germany's IVG Immobilien, which co-owns the 40-storey Gherkin with Evans Randall Ltd, filed for insolvency last year after years of cost overruns and mounting debt. One of Germany's best known property firms, IVG sought protection last year from its creditors after failing to reach an agreement over the restructuring of its debt. It has since agreed a debt-for-equity swap with its creditors. Deloitte said that adverse interest rate and currency movements had caused the Gherkin's total debt, which is held in multiple currencies such as the Swiss franc, to increase materially since it was first issued. "The senior lenders were reluctant to appoint a receiver but felt they had no choice due to the ongoing defaults, which have remained uncured for over five years," joint receiver and Deloitte partner Neville Kahn said. There were also "concerns that the borrowers' lack of equity in the transaction had caused their incentives to become misaligned with the lenders," he said. An icon of London's skyline with its distinctive curved glass shape which gave it its Gherkin nickname, the skyscraper was built by reinsurer Swiss Re in 2004 and was sold to IVG and Evans Randall in 2007 for 600 million pounds. In 2012, IVG said it was valued at 470-531 million pounds. The building, which Deloitte said remains well-leased and in "trophy condition", sits on the site of the former Baltic Exchange in the City financial district. (Reporting by Brenda Goh; Editing by James Davey and Mark Potter) FREE AppDownload
Policy Horizons Canada worked with futurist and data visualizer Michell Zappa of Envisioning to produce a report called MetaScan 3: Emerging Technologies and accompanying infographics. We are reproducing the summary for emerging energy technologies. NASASpace-based solar power could be scientifically viable by 2025.Below are technologies related to energy under three key areas of accelerating change: Storage, Smart grid and Electricity generation. Energy storage involves new, cost-effective ways of storing energy, either in improved batteries, as new fuels or other ways. A smart grid is a set of technologies that pairs information with moving electricity around, enabling more efficient generation and use of energy. Electricity generation is characterized by technologies that generate power from unused sources and that more efficiently produce electric power or fuels from sources in use today. We have included predictions based on consultation with experts of when each technology will be scientifically viable (the kind of stuff that Google, governments, and universities develop), mainstream (when VCs and startups widely invest in it), and financially viable (when the technology is generally available on Kickstarter). Fuel cells: Unlike batteries, fuel cells require a constant source of fuel and oxygen to run, but they can produce electricity continually for as long as these inputs are supplied. They inherently displace the need for natural gas turbines, and are ideally used for stationary power generation or large passenger vehicles such as buses (especially at energy-dense future iterations of the technology). Scientifically viable in 2013; mainstream in 2015; and financially viable in 2016. Lithium-air batteries: Advances in materials technology is enabling the advance of high energy Li-air batteries which promise an energy density that rivals gasoline, offering a five-fold increase compared to traditional Li-Ion batteries. By using atmospheric oxygen instead of an internal oxidizer, these batteries could dramatically extend electric vehicle range. Scientifically viable in 2017; mainstream in 2018; and financially viable in 2020. Hydrogen energy storage &amp; transport: Hypothetical evolution of existing power grids, transporting and storing hydrogen instead of electricity. Could be used in combination with various kinds of energy transformation methods, minimizing loss and maximizing storage capacity. Scientifically viable in 2019; mainstream in 2021; and financially viable in 2022. Thermal storage: Often accumulated from active solar collector or from combined heat and power plants, and transferred to insulated repositories for use later in various applications, such as space heating, domestic or process water heating. Scientifically viable in 2022; mainstream in 2024; and financially viable in 2027. First-generation smart grid: Electrical meters that record consumption of electric energy in real time while communicating the information back to the utility for monitoring and billing purposes. Can be used for remote load-balancing such as disabling non-essential devices at peak usage Scientifically viable in 2014; mainstream in 2015; and financially viable in 2016. Distributed generation: Generates electricity from many small energy sources instead of large centralized facilities. Centralized power plants offer economies of scale, but waste power during transmission, and are inefficient in rapidly adapting to grid needs. Scientifically viable in 2017; mainstream in 2021; and financially viable in 2022. Smart energy network: Speculative global energy &amp; power infrastructure and set of standards which can be used interchangeably. Could theoretically mimic characteristics of the Internet in channeling heat, energy, natural gas (and conceivably hydrogen) from local and distant sources depending on global demand. Scientifically viable in 2019; mainstream and financially viable in 2020. Tidal turbines: A form of hydropower that converts tidal energy into electricity. Currently used in small scale, with the potential for great expansion. Scientifically viable in 2015; mainstream and financially viable in 2017. Micro stirling engines: Micrometer sized power generators that transform energy into compression and expansion strokes. Could hypothetically be 3D-printed on the fly and cover entire heat-generating surfaces in order to generate power. Scientifically viable in 2020; mainstream in 2026; and financially viable in 2027. Solar panel positioning robots: Small-scale robots able to re-position solar panels depending on weather conditions. More efficient than attaching each panel to motorized tracking assemblies. Scientifically viable in 2014; mainstream in 2016; and financially viable in 2017. Second-generation biofuels: New biofuel technologies, such as cellulosic ethanol and biodiesel from microalgae, promise to produce conventional fuel-compatible energy at low or zero greenhouse gas emissions. Scientifically viable in 2016; mainstream in 2017; and financially viable in 2021. Photovoltaic transparent glass: Glass with integrated solar cells which converts IR and some visible light into electricity. This means that the power for an entire building can be supplemented using the roof and façade areas. Scientifically viable in 2017; mainstream in 2020; and financially viable in 2021. Third-generation biofuels: Moving beyond today's organisms, 3rd generation biofuels involve genetic modification of organisms to produce new fuels by unconventional means. Examples include direct production of hydrogen from highly efficient algae, and production of energy-dense furans for automotive use. Scientifically viable in 2022; mainstream in 2024; and financially viable in 2025. Space-based solar power: Collecting solar power in space, beamed back as microwaves to the surface. A projected benefit of such a system is much higher collection rates than what is possible on earth. In space, transmission of solar energy is unaffected by the filtering effects of atmospheric gasses. Scientifically viable in 2025; mainstream in 2027; and financially viable in 2028+. Micro-nuclear reactors: A small, sealed version of a nuclear reactor (approximately a few tens of meters in length) capable of being shipped or flown to a site. Currently able to provide 10 MW of power, plans are for 50 MW capacity in the near future. Scientifically viable in 2022; mainstream and financially viable in 2023. Inertial confinement fusion (break-even): An approach to fusion that relies on the inertia of the fuel mass to provide confinement. To achieve conditions under which inertial confinement is sufficient for efficient thermonuclear burn, a capsule (generally a spherical shell) containing thermonuclear fuel is compressed in an implosion process to conditions of high density and temperature. Scientifically viable in 2013; mainstream and financially viable in 2021. Thorium Reactor: Thorium can be used as fuel in a nuclear reactor, allowing it to be used to produce nuclear fuel in a breeder reactor. Some benefits are that thorium produces 10 to 10,000 times less long-lived radioactive waste and comes out of the ground as a 100% pure, usable isotope, which does not require enrichment. Scientifically viable in 2025; mainstream in 2026; and financially viable in 2027. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA Buddhist monk films, with an iPad, the closing ceremony of the seventh congress of Vietnam's Buddhist Sangha Association in HanoiHANOI (Reuters) - Communist Vietnam is suddenly Apple Inc's hottest market after its sales growth tripled in the first three months of the year, a rate five times faster than in India where it is spending heavily in a battle for market share. Vietnam has barely received a mention from Apple executives in their regular briefings for financial analysts. But in a quarterly conference call on Wednesday, they were talking up the potential of the country. Quarterly iPhone sales more than doubled and the strong growth appears likely to continue given Vietnam's predominantly young, tech-savvy population, rapid growth in internet and mobile phone use and a projected doubling of the middle class by 2020. Vietnamese tech firms are fast cropping up, churning out apps such as Flappy Bird, which rose from obscurity to become one of the world's most downloaded mobile games. Young Vietnamese thronging stores to buy iPhones worth up to half of their country's 2012 gross per-capita income say it's worth it. "This cost more than two months worth of my salary," said officer worker Pham My Linh, 23, moments after agreeing a payment plan for an iPhone 5. "But I need it, to feel more confident when hanging out with friends and colleagues." The surge in demand comes against a backdrop of sluggish economic growth exacerbated by high levels of bad loans and business closures. The economy grew 5.4 percent last year, a rate economists see as underwhelming given Vietnam's fast population growth and its retail and manufacturing potential. But Vietnamese smartphone sellers say a hunger for higher social status is driving Apple's sales, helped by price cuts and payment plans that make it easier to digest handset prices that exceed the monthly income of most urbanites. TRENDIER SMARTPHONES The growing thirst for slick technology is not just benefiting Apple, but most firms offering tablets and smartphones, among them HTC and Samsung. Slower growth for standard mobile phones shows local appetite for upgrades to trendier handsets, industry experts say. "I've seen no signs of an economic recession in this shop," said the manager of a Hanoi branch of FPT, Vietnam's biggest listed tech company. "People buy $1,000 items with ease and a family buying three iPads isn't uncommon." According to data released in January by market research firm GfK, smartphones accounted for 77 percent of mobile sales in Vietnam last year and the number of units sold grew nearly 135 percent from a year earlier. Tablet sales soared 250 percent in 2013 as prices fell by close to 27 percent. Many companies are looking closely at Vietnam, where 15 million people live in two main cities, only 30 million use the internet among a 90 million population and two thirds are under 30 years of age. Apple isn't the only beneficiary of its own brand appeal. Fake iPhones with a near-flawless appearance are on sale for just 2 million dong ($95). "There are a lot of people out there who can't afford an iPhone but still want to look rich, which is why shops like mine can do well," said shop owner Nguyen Duc Hai, 33. "Why pay 10 times more for a real iPhone just to build a luxury image and show off?" ($1 = 21,085 dong) (Writing by Martin Petty; editing by Tom Pfeiffer) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Rebecca Cook Editor's note: Below is an interview with Jed Kolko, chief economist at Trulia. This Q&amp;A went out to subscribers of our "10 Things You Need To Know Before The Opening Bell" newsletter on Monday morning. Sign up here to get the newsletter and more of these interviews in your inbox every day. BUSINESS INSIDER: The concern among many analysts has now shifted to sky-high rents. Do you share this concern? JED KOLKO: Yes. Rental affordability is worsening. Rents are rising faster than incomes, so the typical household is getting squeezed. Unlike buying, renting did not get significantly more affordable during the housing bust and recession. The drop in home prices and historically low mortgage rates made home buying more affordable after the bubble burst – at least for people who could make the down payment and qualify for a mortgage, though buying was and remains out of reach for many. Rents, however, rose throughout the recession or fell only modestly, depending on the measure you look at, even though incomes stagnated, and of course low mortgage rates don’t help renters. The recession caused rental demand to rise. Millions of people lost homes to foreclosure, and many of them became renters; in addition, many others put off their first-time home purchase and remained renters. Rental supply has increased in response to strong rental demand, in a couple of ways. First, investors purchased single-family homes – including foreclosed homes – and rented them out. Second, apartment construction is booming, reaching a 15-year high in 2013. Our latest Rent Monitor, from March 2014, shows rents rose year-over-year 4.4% for apartments and 1.9% for single-family homes. Without this investor and construction activity, rents would have risen even more. BI: Where it is a problem, what polices can be effected to address the issue? JK: The single best policy to improve rental affordability is to increase supply. The markets with the highest rents, like San Francisco and New York, tend to be difficult cities to build in: tight supply plus strong demand equals high rents. Zoning and other local regulations, as well as programs for financing affordable housing construction, all affect the ease and cost of building more units. Policies like rent control preserve affordability for current renters who are covered by the regulations but do little to affect rental affordability in the long run and could even worsen affordability if they end up discouraging new construction (the impact of rent control on new construction depends on the details of rent regulations and which units are covered).   BI: What will be the longer term consequences if the issue persists? JK: If rents continue to rise relative to incomes, and supply does not keep up with demand, we should expect to see some mix of the following things: (1) some people will spend a higher fraction of their income on rent and reduce spending on other things including saving; (2) some people will consume less housing by choosing smaller units, cheaper neighborhoods, or living with others; (3) some people will buy instead of rent if buying becomes more affordable relative to renting. However, even though rents are rising faster than incomes, home prices are rising faster than rents; furthermore, mortgage rates are rising, too. When prices outpace rents, and mortgage rates rise, the advantage of buying over renting shrinks. Recently, we calculated that it was 38% cheaper to buy than to rent, nationally, but a year ago the gap was wider, at 44%. BI: What is the most under-reported story in housing? JK: There are actually still a lot of vacant homes out there. Even though the inventory of homes actually listed for sale is below long-term norms, the share of vacant homes is still higher than pre-bubble levels, including in many markets that have traditionally been fast-growing. The elevated vacancy rate holds back construction activity because builders don’t want to build where there are already a lot of vacant homes. The main sources of housing data don’t tell us for sure why there are a lot of vacant homes being held off the market (i.e. neither for sale nor for rent).  BI: How do you think Fannie Freddie reform will resolve itself?  JK: There seems to be bipartisan support for Fannie and Freddie reform, but lots of issues -- both practical and philosophical – stand in the way. Ultimately, housing finance reform means finding the right balance between (1) keeping mortgages – including the 30-year fixed-rate mortgage – affordable and available, and (2) minimizing the cost to taxpayers of another housing crisis. Even if there’s quick agreement on what the future housing finance system should look like – which is very unlikely – the path will take many years. Other policy changes, like Fed tapering and the new mortgage rules, will have a more immediate impact on the cost and availability of mortgages than Fannie and Freddie reform. FREE AppDownload
Sotheby'sLast summer our hearts were broken when Joe Schwenk, aka @HamptonsBorn, the Hamptons handyman who tweets about the absurd requests he gets from his wealthy "citiot" clients, said he was moving to North Dakota. Lucky for us, he's come back for the summer to make money and entertain the entire Internet with requests like this one: Place clothes in the closet, music on &amp; candles lit for when Mr.D enters his house for 1st time since design was approved for land 6 yrs ago THINGS I NOTICED SINCE I LEFT: No one uses Blackberries——only iPhones in weirdly designed cases. 50% of my customers with Teslas sold them. While I was fixing Ms.S's automatic shades she explained how happy she was with her new under the muscle boob job—over the muscle is out now Don't forget the Easter Parade in Sag Harbor today. Followed by the tour of over $50 million homes built by indicted Wall Street executives. FREE AppDownload
BIIPeople often discuss Bitcoin in terms of its price volatility: Is it up or down? Is it a good investment or a speculative bubble?  But at BI Intelligence, we believe Bitcoin's real value is as a payments network. Bitcoin offers merchants and individuals an extremely low-cost, virtually frictionless payments system. Value can easily be transferred around the world without transmitting sensitive information that could be used for fraud, and without forcing merchants to pay exorbitant transaction fees. In  a recent report, BI Intelligence explains how Bitcoin works, from the moment when local currency is exchanged for bitcoins, to the moment when it reaches the electronic wallet of a receiving party. We look at the key advantages of Bitcoin compared to the legacy players in the payments industry and examine the challenges that Bitcoin faces as a payment network.  Access the Full Report By Signing Up For A Free Trial Today &gt;&gt; Here are some of the key elements from the report:  In full, the report: For full access to all BI Intelligence's charts and data on the Payments Industry, sign up for a free trial.   FREE AppDownload
Oxford Said Business SchoolIt seems totally normal — one pharmaceutical company wants to buy another pharmaceutical company. Dog bites man, the world turns on its axis, nothing to see here. But the deal between Bill Ackman and drug-maker Valeant to buy its competitor, Allergan, the maker of Botox, isn't normal. It's a choice between two ways the pharmaceutical business model can go. The difference is clear in two deals announced this week, the deal between GlaxoSmithKline and Novartis, and of course the $45 billion Ackman-Valeant deal. In one model companies laser focus on certain segments of the industry that they've mastered to lead innovation. In another model — the Ackman Valeant model — companies become massive and chase innovation wherever they think they see it. The FT's John Gapper paints an ugly picture of the difference in a brutal op-ed. Lets start with the good stuff first. In case you missed it, GlaxoSmithKline and Novartis announced this week that they're doing an almost $25 billion deal in which they essentially swap some businesses so they can focus on what each company does best. Glaxo will hand over its cancer drug unit, which plays to Novartis' prescription drug strength, Novartis will sell its vaccines business which better suits Glaxo. Together they will form a new consumer health venture as well. Then there's the bad. "If the entire industry adopted Valeant’s approach, drug discovery would grind to a halt," says the FT piece's sub headline. The Ackman-Valeant approach is to cut costs as much as possible, especially any expensive, early stage R&amp;D, and simply acquire innovation by acquiring companies with simple products that consumers understand (like Botox). That is why, if Allergan is acquired, it's $1.1 billion R&amp;D budget will be cut by $900 million. That is why Valeant's R&amp;D expense is only 3% when industry-wide expense R&amp;D is 19%. It is also why Valeant's pre-tax return on capital is 8-10%, versus 25-30% for the industry. The pharmaceutical industry grows, but at too slow a rate for ambitious Valeant CEO Michael Pearson. He wants to grow Valeant from a $40 billion company to a $150 billion company in 2016 by lagging innovation ever-so-slightly and giving the people what they want, not discovering what they need. He and Ackman have both said they have a long term vision for the company and this deal, but Ackman's fund need only stick around for one year. In the pharmaceutical industry — an industry measured in decades — that is faster than the blink of an eye. It is on that point that Gapper brings out the knives. From the FT: In a presentation this week, Mr Ackman compared Mr Pearson to other managerial iconoclasts such as Warren Buffett, the investor, and Katharine Graham, former publisher of The Washington Post. That analogy would work if Graham had fired most of the Post newsroom, including Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein, who broke the Watergate scandal, and bought wire copy instead on the grounds that investigative journalism was a high-risk, low-return activity. In reality, she took a much longer-term view of investment in a business, as does Mr Buffett. Valeant and Ackman will go into Allergan and cut jobs. On the flip side Novartis announced during its first quarter earnings release Thursday that it's creating them with a new unit called Novartis Business Services. It will employee 7,000 people. Oh, and Novartis reported a 20% Q1 earnings jump. Remember what your parents told you about short cuts, people. FREE AppDownload
ReutersLike countless college students before them, the class of 2014 has little idea what to expect when they enter the working world. "Whether you know exactly where you're heading or feel a bit lost," writes Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg in "Lean In For Graduates," the latest edition of her popular book, "everyone has this in common: you're all in for big surprises."  College graduates will leave the safe, structured world of higher education and enter a fiercely competitive job market, instantly going from the top of the food chain to the bottom. When they land a job, they enter a strange new world of office politics, power jockeying, and hidden agendas.   To give young people a head start, Business Insider polled some of the world's most successful people to find out what they wish they had known before they graduated.   A few common themes: Take risks, stay focused, don't underestimate the power of relationships, and expect the unexpected.   Arianna Huffington, president and editor-in-chief of The Huffington Post Media Group and author of "Thrive": "In college, just before I embarked on a career as a writer, I wish I had known that there would be no trade-off between living a well-rounded life and my ability to do good work.   "I wish I could go back and tell myself, in my thick Greek accent: 'Arianna, your performance will actually improve if you can commit to not only working hard, but also unplugging, recharging, and renewing yourself.' That would have saved me a lot of unnecessary stress, burnout, and exhaustion."  Scott Adams, creator of syndicated comic Dilbert and author of "How to Fail at Almost Everything and Still Win Big":  "I would tell my young self to keep open as many options as possible because the future is wildly unpredictable. The best way to improve your options is to continually learn as much as you can in fields that are complementary to your main interests. It also helps your odds if you stay networked with as many influential people as you can." Kay Krill, president and CEO of ANN Inc.: "The advice I would have given to my college self and any young person entering the workforce today would be to always be authentic and true to yourself and your beliefs. Do not get sidetracked with advice from others that your gut tells you is wrong. By doing this, you will have the clarity of mind to always do the right thing for the business and for yourself." Mark Cuban, billionaire entrepreneur and investor: "I wish that I had known it was just a job and not a mission to make my employer money. I thought I could truly impact the profits of the company — that my ideas were as good on my first day as the most senior executive. I should have been patient and tried to fit in and develop a possible career.  "But I didn't. I was a horrible employee. As it turns out, being bored and deciding to leave after nine months wasn't a bad decision. So I guess the real response is that I'm glad I didn't know it even though I should have. If I had known that, I might still be there…" Denise Morrison, president and CEO of Campbell Soup Company: "If I could give my younger self career advice, it would be this: Don't wait for doors to open. Open them yourself by being persistent and thinking strategically about your career. Plan your career destination, develop a personal mission statement, and build relationships with sponsors and mentors.  "And above all, network, because networking is working. Your ability will only take you so far. Your relationships will take you the rest of the way." Tim Ferriss, host of "The Tim Ferriss Experiment" and author of "The 4-Hour Workweek": "I wish I'd read Warren Buffett's early annual letters. There are so many gems that apply broadly to business and life. I'll paraphrase my favorites: Whether you're playing on Wall Street or Main Street, I think his wisdom is an incredible asset."  Teresa Taylor, former COO of Qwest Communications and author of "The Balance Myth": "When I was in college, I wish I would have known that you need to be more flexible with work life. You will have situations, bosses, and decisions that you cannot predict, and nothing turns out the way you thought it would. That's OK! Let things happen, and open yourself to new opportunities." Dan Schawbel, managing partner of Millennial Branding and author of "Promote Yourself": "As a college student, I never knew that entrepreneurship was a career solution to employment, nor did I consider an entrepreneurial approach to career management. Like most students, I thought that the ideal career path was to work your way up at a big company and then retire, and boy was I wrong.  "Through the years, I realized that the only way you can truly get ahead is by being accountable, networking constantly, and putting yourself out there. I realized that you need to think of a career as a collection of experiences along a journey and leverage everything you can to propel yourself forward." Kat Cole, president of Cinnabon: "What I wish I would have known is that everything will change and eventually work out in your career when you follow your purpose and passion. Don't get too caught up in the 'plan' that you have.  "As a mentor once shared with me, especially when you are young, each career move and choice you make won't be your last, and you can always course correct, so don't waste too much time overanalyzing the next few steps. Take a risk, be the best at the job that you can be, help others along the way, and the next right thing will present itself." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kim Kyung-HoonCaterpillar just announced Q1 earnings that beat expectations, and management also boosted its guidance for full-year earnings. This is great news for shareholders, who are watching the stock price rally. But this could also be a good sign for the whole economy. As a global supplier of construction and mining equipment, Caterpillar is a pretty bellwether of economic activity. Every quarter, management actually provides a pretty good overview of the economy based on what they see. Here are some key 2014 forecasts: Here's the whole outlook : Overall, our expectation for world economic growth in 2014 has changed little from the outlook we provided with our 2013 year-end financial release in January of 2014. We anticipate global economic growth in 2014 of about 3 percent, up from about 2 percent in 2013. Economic indicators that signaled improvement in global economic conditions during the last half of 2013 continued to indicate improvement during the first quarter of 2014. Interest rates are at record lows in many countries, and low inflation coupled with elevated unemployment should cause most central banks to keep interest rates low throughout 2014. Despite recent softness in some commodity prices, improvement in the world economy should increase demand for mined commodities and energy, keeping commodity prices at levels that are profitable for production. As a result, we expect mine production will continue to increase in 2014. While most commodity prices should be high enough to make investments attractive, we expect mining companies will remain cautious with equipment investments, and we expect continued decreases in mining capital expenditures for equipment in 2014. Economic policies in developed countries should continue to support growth in 2014. Governments reduced budget deficits in 2013 well below the recent financial crisis highs, which should allow them to focus less on austerity actions in 2014. Inflation in most developed countries declined in early 2014, and economies are operating well below potential. Low inflation and slow progress on restoring employment should allow central banks to maintain low interest rates. We expect economic growth in developed countries will improve to 2 percent in 2014. Growth in developing countries has slowed over the past few years to around 4.5 percent. The slowdown has been broad based, including China, India, Russia and Brazil. While we do not believe inflation has been a major problem in most developing countries, some have increased interest rates over the past year and we believe it is beginning to negatively impact economic growth. In 2014, some central banks have further increased rates, or maintained high interest rates, in part to defend their currencies. As a result, we believe interest rates are near a peak and should remain close to current levels throughout 2014, which could limit growth. As a result, we expect overall growth in developing countries to remain near 4.5 percent in 2014. There are numerous risks in the world economy. Notable risks include growth in Europe and China and heightened geo-political risk in several developing regions, particularly Russia, Ukraine, Africa and the Middle East. The Eurozone economy is recovering but is far from healthy. The ongoing decline in business lending, slowing inflation and recent strengthening in the euro are all concerns. The unwillingness of the European Central Bank to take more aggressive actions risks leaving the economy struggling for years. Continued weak growth would make it difficult for businesses to maintain existing operations, let alone make new investments. Our outlook assumes that China's economy will grow near 7.5 percent in 2014, similar to the past two years. That rate of growth should support improvements in the machine industry and increase commodity demand. However, Chinese leaders are in the midst of major reforms to transform the world’s second largest economy to a more sustainable growth model while maintaining social stability. In the short term, these efforts could impact the economy and the industries we serve. Political and labor problems could slow growth in the Africa/Middle East region, particularly in mining and oil- producing countries. Also, 2014 growth could slow further in the CIS region due to higher interest rates and political unrest. FREE AppDownload
APApple CEO Tim Cook.Here's the funny thing about Apple's earnings report from last night: No matter what you thought of the company, the report can easily justify your opinion.  It's the ultimate "Rashomon" report. "Rashomon" is an old Japanese movie in which several people see the same thing and all describe it differently. How does it apply to Apple? Do you think Tim Cook is mismanaging Apple? Well, revenue was up only 4.6%, and the iPad business was down 16%.  Are you wildly bullish on Apple? Well, the iPhone was up 17% and way ahead of expectations. And Apple easily crushed expectations on the top and the bottom lines. The stock is up 9% this morning, justifying your bullishness. Are you the sort of person who thinks Apple's iPhone business is in trouble if doesn't lower prices? Well, on the earnings call, Apple management mentioned the iPhone 4S seven times and the iPhone 5S zero times. Couple that with the fact that the iPhone's average selling price was down $41 on a quarter-to-quarter basis, the biggest drop ever, and it seems as if the low-cost iPhone 4S was driving sales. And that suggests Apple should be lowering prices.  Do you think lowering iPhone prices is a mistake? Well, you're in luck, because Apple hasn't lowered prices and it's still selling boatloads of iPhones. You can easily argue that Apple should just stay the course. Are you the sort of person who thinks Apple is doomed? You're a silly person, and you'll spin the results how you want.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Palash KhanA worker sews inside a garment factory in Ashulia June 21, 2012. A four-day shutdown at more than 300 Bangladeshi clothes factories ended on Thursday after workers called off violent protests over pay, officials and witnesses said.This week marks the first anniversary of the Rana Plaza disaster in Bangladesh. On April 24, 2013, a decrepit eight-story factory collapsed on the outskirts of Dhaka, killing 1,133 garment workers, injuring 2,500 (including at least 800 children), and leaving many trapped under the rubble for days. At the time, “CBS Evening News” anchor Jim Axelrod asked me why such a tragedy might seem so remote to American consumers. I answered that, yes, the people who died lived far away, but we need to recognize that they were making the clothes that millions of Americans wear. As a result, we owe it to them—and to our own apparel industry—to take responsibility for the factory regulations and working conditions of manufacturers around the world. What set the stage for the Rana Plaza disaster has been the ongoing demand from large retailers such as Walmart, Target, Kohl’s and Forever 21 for disposable products manufactured at ever-lower cost. Manufacturers have adopted this pricing model, and in the case of textiles and apparel, followed it to countries like Bangladesh, where wages and workplace standards in garment production remain extremely low. This race to the bottom of a competitive global marketplace led to some of the inhumane safety standards subsequently documented at Rana Plaza, where many employees routinely endured an 8 a.m.-to-midnight work shift, seven days a week, for salaries equivalent to $31 per month.  On the day of the collapse, employees were required to report to work despite concerns about a large ceiling crack, which, it turned out, had rendered the building unsafe. If there is any helpful news that came out of the disaster, it’s that the fashion industry has become actively involved in efforts to pressure apparel brands to pay compensation to Rana Plaza survivors. There has also been a concerted push to adopt the Bangladesh Safety Accord on Fire and Building Safety, a legally binding independent agreement holding more than 150 retailers to safe conditions in Bangladeshi workplaces. But these steps have been tempered by more recent incidents such as the ceiling collapse of a Cambodian shoe factory that killed two workers, and the failure of retailers like Gap and Walmart to sign the actual accord. The question now is what Americans can do to actively combat inhumane working conditions. One surprising solution is that apparel manufacturing is returning to America for the first time in a generation, thanks to increasing consumer demand. In time, re-shoring of garment production could also have ripple benefits abroad that include moving to more sustainable production practices, better wages, and safer workplace conditions as a means to compete with concerned U.S. manufacturers and a more outsourcing-wary U.S. public.  Why is U.S. apparel manufacturing making a comeback?  In part because U.S. fashion sourcing has become accessible to a new generation through virtual maps of manufacturers, fabric/trim suppliers, printers, and more. Emerging designers have also learned that reducing financial and ecological waste in the production process is a smart, practical way to do business. Bottom line: By reducing transportation costs, eliminating international legal and customs fees, and negotiating partnerships with nearby suppliers, locally made fashion has become advantageous.  Many U.S. consumers have also become ill at ease with the notion that their clothes may have been produced by child labor. This shift in mindset has helped drive the burgeoning Made-in-USA renaissance, and consumers are also finding that high-quality clothing is worth a slightly higher price. One year after the Bangladesh disaster, America stands poised to send a message that labor exploitation in unsafe factories is no longer an acceptable model. Paying garment workers a living wage in the U.S. can provide leverage for overseas workers who deserve the same treatment. And because smaller designers are now demonstrating the successful bottom line of local sourcing, larger corporate brands may well be compelled to improve production quality and safety overseas, or to move some production back to the U.S.  As the Rana Plaza disaster demonstrates, safety and sustainability in apparel manufacturing must go hand in hand. Bob Bland is founder and CEO of Manufacture New York, a fashion incubator/factory. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsElectric phosphate smelting furnace used in the making of elemental phosphorus in a TVA chemical plant in the Muscle Shoals area, Alabama.The durable goods orders report looks strong. Orders jumped by 2.6% in March, beat expectations for a 2.0% gain. Excluding transportation equipment, orders surged 2.0%, which was much higher than the 0.6% increase expected. Nondefense capital goods order excluding aircraft — a key indicator of business investment — was notably healthy climbing 2.2%. Economists were looking for a 1.5% gain. "Beyond the strong showing on the headline number, the underlying guts of the durable goods report we quite encouraging, providing further confirmation of a resuscitation in economic growth momentum after the weather-induced slowdown in Q1," said TD Securities Millan Mulraine. "And with the very strong finish to Q1 expected to provide a very favorable hand-off to Q2 GDP performance, we continue to expected growth momentum to rebound from a disappointing 1.4% q/q pace in Q1 to a more robust 3.5% q/q advance in Q2. Momentum should rise further in the coming months, with the economy on pace to record a very robust 3.0% advance in 2014, despite the very sluggish start to the year." Census FREE AppDownload
Flickr / fairfaxcountyInitial jobless claims for the past week missed expectations, coming in at 329K. Analysts had expected a reading of 315K. The number is up from a revised 305K. This number can be a bit noisy, and generally this is still quite low. Still, this is one piece of the puzzle to watch. FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Eric MillerAn artist's rendering of Tim Cook splitting Apple's stock.Last night Apple announced a 7-for-1 stock split. It was pretty unexpected. In 2012 Tim Cook told shareholders he didn't think stock splits did much. He reportedly said they provide a short-term bump, but in the long run they don't do much to change things.  On last night's earnings call, Cook explained why the company decided to do a split: We are taking this action to make Apple stock more accessible to a larger number of investors. Each shareholder of record at the close of business on June the 2nd, 2014 will receive six additional shares for every outstanding share held on the record day and trading will begin on a split-adjusted basis on June the 9th, 2014. The key phrase here is "accessible to a larger number of investors." Apple shares are currently trading at about $570, which makes them expensive to retail mom-and-pop investors.  Anecdotally, I've had people tell me they would buy Apple shares but it's too expensive to buy one share.  Splitting the stock makes it cost about $81 per share, which is much more affordable for small investors.  (This is not entirely rational since people will have to pay a commission on each share they buy, thus driving up the price. But people aren't rational.) Cook is probably sick of Apple shares being bought by big institutions and hedge funds and wants to make the stock available to the people who buy iPhones. It could lead to a valuation bump as people go to buy Apple stock just as they buy iPhones.  Another benefit of the stock split is that Apple will likely be added to the Dow Jones industrial average. The Dow didn't include Apple in the past because its share price was too high.  FREE AppDownload
APApple's stock is up 9% in pre-market trading after last night's earnings report.  Apple delivered significantly better than expected iPhone sales. It sold 43.7 million iPhones versus analyst forecasts of 37.7 million iPhones. That represented 17% growth. Analysts were expecting low single digit growth.  Apple is the iPhone company. The iPhone was 57% of Apple's sales. A healthy iPhone business, means a healthy Apple.  Apple also announced plans to increase its stock buyback, dividend, and stock split.  FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsUPS just announced its Q1 financial results, and at first glance it doesn't look great. Q1 earnings fell to $0.98 per share, missing analysts' expectation for $1.08. Operating profit fell $106 million year-over-year to $1.5 billion. The stock is down by 1.2% in pre-market trading. Because it ships stuff all over the world, UPS is considered a reliable bellwether of the economy. But in big bold letters, UPS blames the weather. In fact, the title of the company's earnings announcement was "Weather Impacts UPS 1Q Results." "Unusually harsh weather weighed on operating profit by approximately $200 million, due to increased expenses and slower revenue growth," said management. Here are some operating stats: “During the quarter, the momentum of the underlying business was masked by the disruption of inclement weather,” said CFO Kurt Kuehn. “We are encouraged by the positive trends in our business and expect the remainder of the year to perform as we originally guided. However, due to the challenging start to 2014, we anticipate diluted earnings per share to be at the low end of our full-year guidance range of $5.05 to $5.30.” Analysts have been expecting the company to earn $5.19. UPS FREE AppDownload
WorldPayZinc We all know the major tech companies have a ton of money. But just how much money do these companies bring in every day? How about every second?  WorldPayZinc is a website that visualizes this data, showing how their profits grow over time.  The above image shows how much they make in one second. In just ONE second, Apple makes $1,997, while Google makes $658. Facebook brings in $81. This GIF shows how much they make in eight seconds. WorldPayZinc [via Duncan Robinson]
AFPSpain's economy grew at the fastest rate in six years in the first quarter of 2014 as it pulled out of a long, job-destroying downturn, the central bank said in a preliminary estimate Thursday. The Eurozone's fourth-largest economy expanded by 0.4 percent on a quarterly basis, the Bank of Spain said in a monthly report, citing initial data. It was the sharpest quarterly growth rate since the first quarter of 2008 when a decade-long property bubble imploded, tipping the nation into a double-dip recession that wiped out millions of jobs and flooded the nation in debt. "In the first quarter of 2014, the Spanish economy continued on a path of gradual recovery in the a context of increasing normalization on the financial markets and a gradual consolidation of the labour market," the central bank said. On an annual basis, the Spanish economy grew 0.5 percent in the first quarter, the bank estimated, the first year-on-year expansion in more than two years. Spain's economy is set to grow by 1.2 percent in 2014 and 1.7 percent in 2015, the Bank of Spain said, confirming an earlier forecast. Spain emerged gingerly from a two-year downturn in mid-2013 but still suffers from an unemployment rate of nearly 26 percent. The country managed to avoid an international bailout in mid-2012, a risk that haunted financial markets as the nation's debt soared. Investors have also taken heart from the European Central Bank's vow in late 2012 to come to the rescue of stricken eurozone members.  Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy's austerity measures and labour market reforms helped to consolidate financial market support further. Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said Wednesday he expected the economy to grow by an average of 1.5 percent in 2014 and 2015. "The goal is to achieve two years in a row of growth, with net job creation, and that will be the exit door from the Spanish crisis," De Guindos said. Nevertheless, jobs growth will be "clearly insufficient", he said. Latest revised data Thursday showed the unemployment rate in the final quarter of 2013 stood at 25.73 percent. "A country with an unemployment rate of 26 percent is starting at a terrifying level," de Guindos said. The Bank of Spain is predicting an unemployment rate still at 25 percent in 2014 and 23.8 percent in 2015. Spain's lower financing costs, combined with higher tax receipts, would probably allow the Treasury in the next few days to lower its estimate of the money it needs to raise by issuing bonds, the minister said. Spain has estimated its net financing requirements for this year at 65 billion euros ($90 billion). Spain is to publish next week its unemployment data for the first quarter of 2014.  Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Rebecca Cook A man walks past a row of General Motors vehicles at a Chevrolet dealership on Woodward Avenue in Detroit, Michigan April 1, 2014. GM Q1 earnings hung in despite having earlier declared a $1.3 billion write-down after a series of recalls. The automaker posted $0.29/share ex-one-time charges for the period ended March 31, above the $0.04/share expected but well below the $0.58/share a year ago. The company said higher truck prices had pulled up margins. Revenues came in mostly in-line at $37.4 billion versus $37.9 billion expected. Still, net income fell to $125 million compared with $865 million during the same period a year ago. Shares are up more than 2% pre-market. “The performance of our core operations was very strong this quarter, reflecting the positive response of customers to the new vehicles we are bringing to market,” said GM CEO Mary Barra." FREE AppDownload
CaterpillarGlobal machinery giant Caterpillar earned $1.61 per share on an adjusted basis, which was much stronger than the $1.23 expected by analysts. Management also raised earnings guidance. It now expects to earn $6.10 per share for the year, up from previous guidance of $5.85. The stock is up 3.5% in pre-market trading. "Given the business and economic uncertainties around the world and continuing decline in our mining sales, I am pleased with our performance in the first quarter," said CEO Doug Oberhelman. "We understand we don't control the economy and have instead focused on what we can improve.  We're lowering costs, improving cash flow and driving value for our customers through the continued deployment of our lean manufacturing initiatives.  We see the benefits of these actions in our first-quarter results and in improving market position for many of our products." Caterpillar sells mining and construction equipment around the world, making it one of the better bellwethers of the global economy. Here are some comments Oberhelman made about the global landscape in the context of the company's guidance: "The change in our profit outlook is a result of our very solid performance in the first quarter, while also recognizing the uncertainty we are facing in a number of areas of our business and the continued risk that geo-political events could negatively impact global GDP growth," Oberhelman said.  "China is one example of both the potential and uncertainty we face.  During my visit a few weeks ago, it was evident the Chinese construction industry is facing challenges; however, I was pleased with how Caterpillar is performing compared to our competitors.  I came away optimistic about how we are executing our China strategy as we implement our proven business model along with our dealers and suppliers who continue to invest in China.  At the same time, Chinese leaders are in the midst of transitioning the world's second largest economy to a longer-term, more sustainable growth model while maintaining social stability.  This is an enormous task that carries risks for the world economy.  In addition, we are very concerned about the situation in Ukraine and Russia.  We are hoping for a peaceful resolution, but business confidence around the world could dampen, and trade and world GDP could slow should the situation deteriorate.  The global economy remains fragile, and as such, one or two setbacks could create substantial downside risk for the global economic recovery. "In numerous recent discussions with construction customers and our dealers in the United States, I continue to hear positive stories about new projects and reasons for optimism.  While that's encouraging, there's still quite a bit of room for improvement.  The U.S. construction industry is still well below its 2006 peak, and we have a real need for infrastructure improvement," Oberhelman said. "With the modest improvement in the global economy, we are expecting to deliver better sales and profit this year in Construction Industries, and Energy &amp; Transportation appears to be on track for another solid year.  However, 2014 is shaping up to be another very tough year for mining.  In fact, today's outlook reflects a drop of about 80 percent in sales of large mining trucks from our peak year of 2012," Oberhelman added. So, it sounds like cautious optimism, a tone we seem to get from a lot of CEOs all of the time. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kim Hong-Ji A woman pays tribute in Ansan, at a temporary group memorial altar for victims of capsized passenger ship Sewol April 23, 2014. The death toll now stands at 150.Good morning! Here's what you need to know. Apple Is An iPhone Company. Apple reported strong earnings and revenue after the bell yesterday. "Just when the world was ready to bury Apple, the company delivered a strong beat," BI's Jay Yarow wrote. Especially notable were iPhone sales, which crushed expectations at 43.7 million. That's up 17% year over year. Compare that with iPad sales, which missed expectations at 16.35 million vs. 19 million. "There's no doubt about it. Apple is an iPhone company. Everything else is just gravy,"  BI's Steve Kovach said. Stock Split. The firm also increased its share buyback plan to $90 billion from a previously announced $60 billion. It said it was increasing its quarterly dividend by about 8% and said it will split its stock 7-for-1 in June. Shares are up 7.5% before the bell. NASDAQ futures are up nearly 1.5%.  RIP Net Neutrality? The FCC is set to propose rules Thursday that would allow content companies to pay for faster and better streaming. Many thinks this spells the end of net neutrality, which some argue helped foster startups and innovation by giving smaller firms a equal access to customers. "This is a complete turnaround from the FCC's previous stance on the subject of net neutrality, which is the idea that everyone should have equal access to the Internet and content providers should not be discriminated against in providing content to customers," BI's Karyne Levy writes. Same Old Ratings Agencies — And Wealthier. The Wall Street Journal's Tim Martin writes U.S. ratings agencies are expected to report record profits this month because nothing has been done to change their models despite calls to do so following the financial meltdown. "The business model, in which debt issuers pay for ratings, remains in place; regulations proposed years ago are yet to be implemented; and new competitors have gotten little more than a toehold," he writes. Spanish Borrowing. Yields on Spain's 10-year hit an all-time low of 3.059%, down from 7.5% just two years ago. "Strong demand for Spanish debt at the auction was due to growing confidence in the economy, hopes the ECB will embark on a quantitative easing programme and rising optimism amongst the ratings agencies, said strategist Annalisa Piazza, of Newedge Strategy," Reuters said. New Mega Tobacco Reg Coming. The New York Times reports the FDA is not only poised to set tough new regulations on e-cigarettes, but will also get around to things like pipes and cigars that have for years slipped under its radar. "The new regulations would ban the sale of e-cigarettes, cigars and pipe tobacco to Americans under 18, and would require that people buying them show photo identification to prove their age, measures already mandated in a number of states." Data. Initial jbless claims hit at 8:30 a.m. Expectations are for a slight uptick to 313,000 from 304,000. Also at 8:30 we get durable goods orders. Expectations are for a gain of 2%; ex-transportation, 0.9%. GM Earnings. Consensus is for $0.09/share versus $0.58/share a year ago. Barclays says it could go as low as a penny, according to NBC. GM just announced it would take a $1.3 billion write-down on the recalls it announced during in Q1. Other Earnings Announcements. Amazon, Coke, Microsoft, Pandora, Starbucks, UPS, and Verizon all report.  Markets. Stocks are up across much of the world. U.S. futures are higher. Gold is down. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe Time Warner Cable logo is displayed on the back of a van in New York(Reuters) - Time Warner Cable Inc &lt;TWC.N&gt;, the second-largest U.S. cable operator, posted a 19.5 percent rise in quarterly profit as its residential subscriber trends improved through the quarter. Net income attributable to common shareholders rose to $479 million, or $1.70 per share, in the first quarter ended March 31, from $401 million, or $1.34 per share, a year earlier. Excluding items, the company earned $1.78 per share — above analysts' average expectation of $1.68 per share, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. Revenue rose 2 percent to $5.58 billion. Analysts were expecting $5.64 billion. The company said it lost 34,000 residential video customers in the quarter on a net basis. Time Warner Cable will be acquired in a $45.2 billion deal by Comcast once regulators approve the transaction. (Reporting by Soham Chatterjee; Editing by Joyjeet Das) FREE AppDownload
Ukrainian troops are moving in on what Reuters describes as "pro-Russian armed men" in the east Ukraine city of Slaviansk (here's video). Ukraine's Interior Ministry said its forces had killed "up to five" militants in the "anti-terrorist operation."  "During the armed clash up to five terrorists were eliminated," it said, adding that one person has been wounded on the side of government forces. REUTERS/Gleb GaranichUkrainian security force officers walk past a checkpoint set on fire and left by pro-Russian separatists near Slaviansk April 24, 2014.These are what some of the pro-Russian gunman look like in the city of 130,000.  Notice the weaponry, armor, and small communication devices. REUTERS/Gleb GaranichA pro-Russian armed man stands guard near the state security service building in Slaviansk, April 23, 2014. Things appear to be escalating, and if both sides are led by special forces soldiers from Russia and Ukraine, things could get ugly. Ukrainian troops on the outskirts of #Slovyansk (Kirill Kudryavtsev/AFP) pic.twitter.com/cixDACgC8G via @mikewhills #Ukraine military operations underway in southeast. Will surely be better organized. Making Russian response more likely.. Ukraine truce officially done for. Kremlin, looking for any excuse for more trouble, now has one. REUTERS/Marko Djurica Masked pro-Russia protesters stand guard outside a regional government building in Donetsk, in eastern Ukraine April 22, 2014. Here's a look at the cities at issue in the "Novorussia" crisis. Slaviansk is in northern Donetsk. REUTERS
Housing remains a weak spot in what otherwise looks like a fairly broad improvement across the US economy. The new home sales report today for example came in materially below expectations. Signs of this soft patch in housing were already visible over a month ago when lumber futures experienced a significant decline (see chart). Home prices have risen quickly over the past couple of years, and that combined with higher mortgage rates creates a bit of a sticker shock for many potential buyers. Furthermore builders continue to complain about construction costs and tight credit. The biggest issue however remains household formation. As of the end of last year for example, the number of American households was not growing at all (see chart). This is likely due to record low marriage rates as well as a slew of other factors. Whatever the reason, household formation needs to stabilize before we see stronger results in the US housing market.   SoberLook FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Margin CallGood morning! It's kind of a busy day for economic data. Via Calculated Risk, here's what's coming up: • At 8:30 AM ET, the initial weekly unemployment claims report will be released. The consensus is for claims to increase to 313 thousand from 304 thousand.• Also at 8:30 AM, the Durable Goods Orders for March from the Census Bureau. The consensus is for a 2.0% increase in durable goods orders.• At 11:00 AM, the Kansas City Fed manufacturing survey for April. We'll be covering each of these, LIVE. FREE AppDownload
In an interview today on CNBC Warren Buffett said he couldn’t find someone to come to the annual meeting to explain their position against Berkshire Hathaway going forward.  He wants a big short to come in and explain the bear case.  But this strikes me as a common case of bad benchmarking (and frankly, a layup to make Buffett look good since the odds are heavily in his favor). Buffett shouldn’t be asking for someone to explain why his firm will do poorly in the future.  He should be asking for someone to come in and explain why anyone should own Berkshire Hathaway relative to a highly correlated index like the S&amp;P 500.  In this manner, owning a long only alternative is similar to being bearish on Berkshire in that you believe the highly correlated index will outperform his firm. I think there’s a pretty strong case going forward that Berkshire likely won’t outperform the S&amp;P 500.  Among the more basic arguments: Yahoo Finance Buffett shouldn’t be searching for someone to explain the bear case on Berkshire.  He should be looking for someone to explain why anyone should continue to hold his firm’s stock relative to a broader index.   Now, THAT would make for a fair and interesting discussion. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Nigel Roddis  Good morning! Everything's going up. There have been three big events since yesterday's market close that are providing ignition to stock markets. Apple came out and beat earnings and the stock surged after hours. German business confidence is on the rise. And Spanish GDP was strong. US futures are solidly in the green. The German stock market is up 0.9%. Italy is up 1%. UK is up 0.5%. Today in US economics we get initial jobless claims and durable goods. FREE AppDownload
