How to cancel cable and stream all your content for a lot less money. Produced By Matt Johnston.Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Reuters / Marcos BorgaFormer Executive President of Espirito Santo Bank (BES) Ricardo Salgado.On June 9, with his 150-year-old Portuguese corporate dynasty close to collapse, patriarch Ricardo Espirito Santo Salgado made a desperate attempt to save it. Salgado signed two letters to Venezuela’s state oil company, which had bought $365 million in bonds from his family’s holding company. The holding company was in financial trouble. But the letters, according to copies seen by Reuters, assured the Venezuelans that their investment was safe. The "cartas-conforto" – letters of comfort – were written on the letterhead of Banco Espirito Santo, a large lender controlled by the family. They were co-signed by Salgado, who was both the bank’s chief executive and head of the family holding company. "Banco Espirito Santo guarantees ... it will provide the necessary funds to allow reimbursement at maturity,” said the letters. There were problems, though: By promising that the bank stood behind the holding company’s debt, the letters ignored a directive from Portugal’s central bank that Salgado stop mixing the lender’s affairs with the family business. The guarantees were also not recorded in the bank’s accounts at the time, which is required by Portuguese law. The following week, after intense pressure from regulators, Salgado resigned. Within a month, the holding company, Espirito Santo International, filed for bankruptcy, crumbling under 6.4 billion euros ($8.4 billion) in debt. In August, Banco Espirito Santo was rescued by the Portuguese state, after reporting 3.6 billion euros in losses. Reuters / M. Ulmanu Espirito Santo family businesses and interests, ownership stakes and market capitalization of the bank and its main owner.The two letters, whose existence was made public last month but whose details are revealed here for the first time, are a key part of an investigation into the spectacular fall of one of Europe’s most prominent family businesses. Portuguese regulators and prosecutors are examining them along with the bank’s accounts and other evidence to determine whether there was unlawful activity behind the fall of the Espirito Santo empire.   So far, shareholders and investors in the family companies and Banco Espirito Santo have lost more than 10 billion euros, making this one of Europe’s biggest corporate collapses ever. The letters offer a glimpse into how Salgado ran the Espirito Santo empire and its crown jewel, the bank, virtually unhindered. In addition, interviews with family members, company officials and Portuguese regulators, as well as financial documents, show how the 70-year-old patriarch consistently blurred the lines between the bank’s interests and those of his family and even his country. Around the time he signed the letters, Salgado sought public funds to save the family empire, arguing that it was important for Portugal. "This is not just my problem, it’s a national problem,” he told officials at Portugal’s central bank, according to people at a meeting they held. Salgado declined to comment for this story. One person close to him said Salgado had asked Portuguese authorities to help him fix the family business in 2013. The bank’s collapse, the source said, could have been avoided. Reuters / Hugo CorreiaProtesters hold up posters with the image of former Banco Espirito Santo (BES) CEO Ricardo Salgado during a demonstration at BES's headquarters office in downtown Lisbon August 9, 2014.The corporate meltdown also shines a light on Portuguese and Luxembourg regulators and the gaps that can open up when companies span different jurisdictions. The Espirito Santo family companies were mostly registered in Luxembourg, while their main asset – Banco Espirito Santo – was in Lisbon. Little information was exchanged between regulators in the two countries. That helped hide the true state of the family companies’ affairs. Portuguese financial regulators knew in January about deep financial problems at Espirito Santo International, the family’s Luxembourg-based umbrella holding. ESI, though, continued to borrow heavily in the months that followed, with deepening consequences for the Lisbon-based bank. Luxembourg’s regulator CSSF said it did not supervise any holding companies of the Espirito Santo family, while the country’s central bank said it had no responsibility for supervising Espirito Santo entities. Portugal’s central bank and its markets watchdog CMVM both say they acted promptly and efficiently. Portugal’s central bank says Banco Espirito Santo former managers repeatedly violated its directives. Reuters / Rafael MarchanteThere are now several investigations under way regarding the Espirito Santo empire. CMVM chief Carlos Tavares told a parliamentary committee earlier this year that the watchdog had examined Espirito Santo companies various times over the past six years and alerted prosecutors about possible wrongdoing after finding “signs of abuse of insider information” and a “possible crime of abuse of confidence.” Portugal’s prosecutor general says there are now several investigations under way regarding the Espirito Santo empire, but has given no details. Antonio Roldan, an analyst for Portugal and Spain at Eurasia Group in London, says the European Union, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund, who arranged the 78 billion euro bailout of the Portuguese state in 2011, should also have spotted problems. “Portugal was supposed to be under very close supervision” by international authorities as a condition of the bailout, he said. In many ways, the rise of the Espirito Santo empire is a quintessentially European tale. Family dynasties such as the Agnellis in Italy or Germany’s Quandts have helped define the continent’s corporate history using their stable shareholder base and long-term planning as a recipe for growth. But Europe’s debt and financial crisis, which has left one in five out of work across the continent’s southern rim, has changed things.  The Espirito Santo business was founded in 1869 by lottery dealer and currency exchange broker Jose Maria do Espirito Santo e Silva. The family guided its banking empire through World War Two by helping finance Europe’s trade in tungsten, a crucial ore found in Portugal and used to make weapons. Reuters / Jose Manuel Ribeiro The Espirito Santo business was founded in 1869 by lottery dealer and currency exchange broker Jose Maria do Espirito Santo e Silva. By the early 1970s, Portugal was in the last years of the Antonio Salazar regime, a dictatorship that looked favorably upon the Espirito Santos and their glamorous connections. After 1974’s peaceful “Carnation” revolution, the country’s left-wing government nationalized the banks and the Espirito Santo clan lost the business. The following year members from the family’s five branches decided to rebuild their empire with $20,000 (around $90,000 at today’s value) of their own money and loans from several international banks. The move offered a chance to shine for Ricardo Espirito Santo Salgado, great-grandson of the bank’s founder. He had joined the family business a few years earlier as a mild-mannered 31-year-old to head Banco Espirito Santo’s economic studies unit. Once the family set out to rebuild he opened a bank in Brazil, together with French lender Credit Agricole. In the mid-1980s, when Portugal began to encourage private investment again, Salgado returned to Lisbon and set up a new bank, again with Credit Agricole. He bought back an insurance firm, called Tranquilidade, that the family had once owned. The family business grew. So did its ownership structure. At the top was Espirito Santo Control, a non-listed holding company that owned Espirito Santo International, the umbrella for businesses spanning hotels, property and finance. Luxembourg-registered ESI was 57 percent owned by the family, with the rest held by friends and Portuguese executives who wanted “a seat at the Espirito Santo table,” according to a person close to the family. Through an intermediary company, ESI owned Espirito Santo Financial Group (ESFG) which in turn owned Banco Espirito Santo. A family council, with representatives of the five branches, ran the shop. Salgado’s big break came in 1991 when the Portuguese state sold Banco Espirito Santo back to the family and Credit Agricole. Salgado became chief executive. Under his leadership the bank more than doubled its share of the Portuguese lending market to 20 percent in 2013, becoming Portugal’s second-largest lender after a state-run bank. According to people who worked with him, Salgado was courteous but distant. Every year, at a meeting with senior staff in a Lisbon hotel, he would sit in the middle of the room, shooting detailed questions to department bosses. At family company board meetings, he rarely faced dissent. “People never turned around and said, ‘no, you can’t’,” said a person who attended the meetings. APWhile Espirito Santos lived in style, many in the country were protesting against government austerity measures to control government debt. The Espirito Santos lived in style. Isabel de Melo, matriarch of one family branch, hosted grand parties in her country estate outside Lisbon, a mansion whose dining room comfortably seats 75. On her piano sat silver-framed photos of the family with Richard Nixon, the Rockefellers and the King and Queen of Spain. Salgado himself built a holiday home in the coastal estate of Comporta, a sprawling estate larger than Lisbon that the family has been developing into an up-market tourist spot. Every Christmas Eve he gathers 50 family members for lunch at Visconde da Luz, a traditional wood-panelled restaurant near Lisbon. Portugal fell into recession after seeking its international bailout in 2011. As part of the bailout terms, Banco Espirito Santo, like other Portuguese banks, was no longer allowed to pay dividends to its shareholders, including the Espirito Santo clan, who at that time owned a majority stake in the lender. That meant a big source of the family’s income was gone. The stock market value of Banco Espirito Santo fell to 1.97 billion euros at the beginning of 2012 from 3.5 billion a year earlier – costing the family 420 million euros on paper. Most banks sought state-backed loans. Banco Espirito Santo did not. Salgado boasted the bank had maintained "strategic independence.” Turnover at the family’s hotel, property and other businesses suffered. To avoid selling assets or losing their controlling stake in the bank, the family companies, led by Salgado, simply borrowed more – including from the bank, and from the bank’s customers. For the first time, though, not everyone agreed with the patriarch’s approach. Among the dissenters was Jose Maria Ricciardi, a cousin of Salgado’s who headed the bank’s investment arm. In early November of 2013, Ricciardi organized a small gathering of family members at his father’s house. According to a source with knowledge of the meeting, Ricciardi said he was worried about the family empire’s debt. In particular, Ricciardi was concerned about the way the empire was financing itself by selling bonds of the family businesses to clients of Banco Espirito Santo. He argued that Salgado should step down. Ricciardi went public with his criticism of “practices” at the group but did not give details. He urged Portuguese financial regulators to order an overhaul. But at another family meeting on November 7, he was overruled. Even his own father voted to keep Salgado on. “I did not support my son ... to avoid an immediate institutional break” within the family, said Ricciardi’s father, Antonio Ricciardi, in an email to Reuters at the time. Reuters / Hugo CorreiaThe fall of the Santo empire has made front page news across the country.  The reason for the family tensions soon became clear to Portuguese regulators. The Bank of Portugal had earlier reviewed the top borrowers at the country’s largest banks and discovered Banco Espirito Santo’s heavy loans to Espirito Santo family companies. The central bank asked auditors KPMG to go through ESI’s accounts and the results were shocking: ESI’s accounting had “materially relevant” irregularities that put into question the “veracity and completeness of accounting records,” according to a copy of the KPMG report seen by Reuters. The report’s contents have not been detailed before. KPMG found that ESI had either not recorded or had under-reported financial liabilities and risks, had grossly overvalued its assets, and had scant evidence for its reported transactions. The 6.4 billion euros of debt it held at the end of September 2013 was an “atomic bomb,” according to a person close to ESI, because most of it had to be paid back within one year. APKPMG found that ESI had either not recorded or had under-reported financial liabilities and risks, had grossly overvalued its assets, and had scant evidence for its reported transactions.KPMG would not comment for this story. After the audit, the Bank of Portugal moved to protect Banco Espirito Santo from its founding family. It ordered the bank to make sure any loans it had made or would make to family businesses were secured by assets, in case the family could not repay its debts. The central bank also ordered that any of the bank’s retail clients who had bought bonds from the family business be given guarantees that their money was safe. The existence of the audit was not made public at the time. But Reuters has learned that four months later, in April, the board of ESFG – the family company that owned a 27.4 percent stake in Banco Espirito Santo – was alerted to the problems at its parent company ESI. During a teleconference meeting, some directors argued that they should publicly disclose the problems, because ESFG’s other shareholders and creditors had a right to know. But Salgado, who was both CEO of ESI and ESFG chairman, argued for silence. Reuters / Jose Manuel Ribeiro Salgado told the board that he had decided ESFG would provide guarantees to Banco Espirito Santo’s retail clients who had invested in family bonds."He recommended the board let him deal with the situation. The board believed in him and that his recommendations were the right things to follow,” said a person with knowledge of the board meeting. Salgado decided that ESFG would provide guarantees to Banco Espirito Santo’s retail clients who had invested in family bonds, according to a person familiar with the decision. Salgado had previously argued within ESFG that it was in ESFG’s interest to guarantee bank clients, because the lender was its most valuable asset. Some at ESFG, however, thought this was unfair to the company’s other shareholders and creditors, the person with knowledge of the board meeting said. Parent company ESI set out to repay the bonds it had sold to Banco Espirito Santo retail clients. There was a problem, though: The reimbursements didn’t come from new revenue. Instead, ESI and other family companies issued even more debt. The companies issued bonds through an opaque transatlantic ping pong, involving an ESFG holding company in Panama and another family-linked firm, according to people familiar with the family company accounts. Many of the bonds – whose value could reach five billion euros – ended up back in the hands of Banco Espirito Santo clients. That opened up the prospect that the bank would have to compensate clients in the event that the holding company could not repay the bonds.   The problems at ESI were publicly disclosed on May 20, as Banco Espirito Santo told investors that it would raise more capital. The empire kept up a brave face. Earlier that month, the bank had prepared a slide show for investors titled “Wisdomland,” playing up the family’s history and reputation. "Wisdom is something that needs time to grow." Now, though, in addition to disclosing the financial problems at ESI, the bank told investors that it had sold debt in family parent company ESI to its customers. It said this posed a “reputational risk” for the bank. If ESI defaulted, customers could start asking questions about how the debt was sold, and the bank’s brand could suffer, especially if there was any hint it knew the bonds were risky. Salgado told a Portuguese business newspaper that the extent of ESI’s problems hadn’t previously been known. “We didn’t know that there was such sickness as we have subsequently found inside ESI,” said Salgado, ESI’s chief executive at the time. “There was serious negligence. I don’t think there was wilful misconduct.” These assurances helped the bank complete its one billion euro capital increase. In the weeks that followed, the true extent of the bank’s links with its troubled founding family began to emerge. Investors panicked. Shares in Banco Espirito Santo would dive 87 percent in the following two and a half months. In early June, Salgado made his move to save the business, and his name. He first visited members of the Portuguese government and central bank governor Carlos Costa. Salgado asked both for loans worth 2.5 billion euros to avoid the collapse of the family company. He said an implosion of the Espirito Santo group would reverberate throughout the economy. The officials refused. “We will not use public instruments to solve problems of a private nature,” Prime Minister Pedro Passos Coelho said. “When private companies do bad business they have to bear the costs.” Salgado and his cousin, Jose Manuel Espirito Santo, signed the letters for the bank to guarantee the family debt bought by PDVSA, Venezuela's state oil company. PDVSA and a Venezuelan state-owned fund, to whom one of the letters was addressed as a proxy of the state oil firm, declined to comment on the correspondence. It is unclear whether PDVSA will get its money back. Reuters / Hugo CorreiaKPMG found vast under-reported liabilities. This headline screams 'Rescue'.The letters were not shown to the bank’s internal audit committee and were not recorded at the time in the bank’s accounts. The Bank of Portugal later said this violated the law. In late June, Portugal’s central bank chief organized a meeting with representatives of the five Espirito Santo family branches. At the meeting, Costa ordered family members, including Salgado, to step down from top management of the bank. New executives would be named. Weeks later, Espirito Santo International filed for creditor protection in Luxembourg, and most of the other family firms followed suit. Salgado presided over a July 18 meeting to discuss the bankruptcies. "He was cerebral and polite, but imperial as always," said a person who saw him at that time. A few days after Banco Espirito Santo reported a record loss of 3.6 billion euros for the first half of 2014, Portugal bailed it out. The state formed a new bank, called Novo Banco from the healthy parts of the old lender. Salgado has now set up an office at a high-end hotel in the coastal resort town of Estoril. He has mostly stayed silent throughout the affair. In a brief interview with a local newspaper, he said: "I will fight for honor and dignity, mine and my family's." Quoting Pope Francis, he added: “Don’t cry for what you have lost; fight for what you have.” (With additional reporting by Axel Bugge; Writing by Alessandra Galloni; Edited by Simon Robinson) FREE AppDownload
When selecting avocados at the supermarket, use this neat little trick to make sure you're getting the ripest ones (and not wasting your money on rotten avocados.) Produced by William Wei
Thomson ReutersFrench President Hollande poses for a family photo before a meeting with European Socialist leaders at the Elysee Palace in ParisBRUSSELS (Reuters) - European Union leaders are set to hold an emergency summit on promoting growth and jobs on Oct. 7 at the suggestion of Italy, according to a draft of a statement to be issued after an EU summit on Saturday. Previous drafts before weak euro zone economic data in the past few days made no mention of the economic situation. In contrast the latest document read: "In recent weeks economic data have confirmed that the recovery, particularly in the euro area, is weak, inflation exceptionally low and unemployment unacceptably high." As a result there would be a summit, hosted by Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi on Oct. 7, that would focus on "employment, especially youth employment, investment and growth". A "dedicated Euro Summit" would also be held in the autumn.  (Reporting by Barbara Lewis; Writing by Alastair Macdonald; editing by Foo Yun Chee) FREE AppDownload
Spencer Platt/Getty ImagesATLANTIC CITY, N.J. (AP) — A time few could imagine during the not-too-distant glory days of casino gambling has arrived in Atlantic City, where two casinos will close this weekend and a third will shut down in two weeks. More than 5,000 workers will lose their jobs in an unprecedented weekend in the seaside gambling resort, leaving many feeling betrayed by a system that once promised stable, well-paying jobs. The Showboat is closing Sunday, followed by Revel on Monday and Tuesday. Trump Plaza is next, closing Sept. 16. To the thousands who will be left behind, it still seems unreal. "We never thought this would happen," said Chris Ireland, who has been a bartender at the Showboat since it opened. His wife works there, too, as a cocktail server. Before dinnertime Sunday, neither will have a job. What makes it even tougher to swallow is that the Showboat — one of four Atlantic City casinos owned by Caesars Entertainment — is still turning a profit. But the company says it is closing Showboat to help reduce the total number of casinos in Atlantic City. Caesars also teamed with Tropicana Entertainment to buy the Atlantic Club last December and close it in January. "They just want to eliminate competition," Ireland said. "Everyone's in favor of a free market until it doesn't exactly work for them." Yet many analysts and casino executives say the painful contraction now shrinking Atlantic City's casino market is exactly what the city needs to survive. Since 2006, Atlantic City's casino revenue has fallen from $5.2 billion to $2.86 billion last year, and it will fall further this year. Atlantic City will end the year with eight casinos after beginning the year with 12. New casinos popping up in an already saturated Northeastern U.S. gambling market aren't expanding the overall pie but are slicing it into ever-smaller pieces. Fewer casinos could mean better financial performance for the survivors. Resorts Casino Hotel, which was on the verge of closing a few years ago, completed a remarkable turnaround in the second quarter of this year, swinging from a $1.3 million loss last year to a $1.9 million profit this year. "I truly believe that eight remaining casinos can all do very well when the gambling market is right-sized," said Resorts president Mark Giannantonio. That may be true, but it is little comfort to workers who are losing their jobs. By the time Trump Plaza shuts down in two weeks, nearly 8,000 jobs — or a quarter of Atlantic City's casino workforce — will be unemployed. A mass unemployment filing due to begin Wednesday is so large it has been booked into the city's convention center. When casino gambling was approved by New Jersey voters in 1976, it was billed as a way to revitalize Atlantic City and provide stable, lasting jobs. The first casino, Resorts, opened in 1978, kicking off three decades of soaring revenue and employment. But the Great Recession hit just as new casinos were popping up in neighboring Pennsylvania and New York, cutting deeply into Atlantic City's customer base. "There was a promise when casinos came in here that these would be good, viable jobs, something you could raise your family on and have a decent life with," said Paul Smith, a cook at the Trump Taj Mahal Casino Resort. "I feel so bad for all these people losing their jobs. It wasn't supposed to be like this." Mayor Don Guardian says his city is remaking itself as a more multifaceted destination, where gambling is only part of the allure. But he acknowledges the pain this weekend will bring. "This is going to be a difficult few weeks for many of us in Atlantic City," he said. "People will lose their jobs, and that is never good news. Our hearts go out to our neighbors and friends. We still have difficult waters to navigate." ___ Wayne Parry can be reached at http://twitter.com/WayneParryAC Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersNewly-named French Economy Minister Emmanuel Macron delivers a speech during the official handover ceremony at the Bercy Finance Ministry in ParisPARIS (Reuters) - Nearly two thirds of the French believe companies should be allowed exemptions to the country's 35-hour working week if they reach agreements with trade unions, two polls showed on Saturday. France's new pro-business Economy Minister Emmanuel Macron caused a stir this week - in an interview made before his appointment on Tuesday - for floating the idea as a measure that could help companies gain in confidence and competitiveness. The comments drew immediate fire from trade unions and the government was quick to stamp out speculation there could be a change in the law. Introduced by a previous Socialist-led government in 2000 in a bid to redistribute work and create jobs, the 35-hour week is fiercely protected by the French left - despite the fact that many French in reality work much longer hours than that. Under EU pressure to reform France's economy to make it more business-friendly and lift it out of stagnation, President Francois Hollande's government has introduced modest reforms to the labor market but has stayed clear of changing the 35-hour working week. An Ifop poll for newspaper Sud Ouest Dimanche showed 65 percent of the French favored allowing companies to change the rules on working time if they have reached an agreement with trade unions representing a majority of workers. Thirty-five percent of those polled opposed the idea. A separate Odoxa poll for daily Le Parisien and television news channel iTele showed 62 percent support for such tweaks to working time, of which 53 percent of Socialist voters and 77 percent of right-wing voters. However, 57 percent of more left-wing voters opposed such a move. The same Odoxa poll showed 57 percent of the French - and 71 percent of Socialist voters - believed Macron, a former investment banker and presidential adviser, had "the right profile to tackle France's economic difficulties". Macron, who helped draw up Hollande's pro-business agenda, replaced leftist Arnaud Montebourg as economy minister in a government reshuffle this week. Montebourg's removal followed his tirade against Germany's "obsession" with austerity, and angered many on the left wing of the Socialist Party who had been calling for an economic policy U-turn away from budgetary rigor.   (Reporting by Natalie Huet; Editing by Rosalind Russell) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Paulo Whitaker In July, leaders of the five emerging market countries known as the “BRICS” (Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa) met in the Brazilian city of Fortaleza andannounced the creation of a New Development Bank (NDB). Interestingly and significantly, the announcement coincided with the 70th anniversary of the Bretton Woods agreement, which created both the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank. The new BRICS bank would offer a financing alternative to both entities, with initial subscribed capital of US$50 billion for financing infrastructure and sustainable development projects and US$100 billion in a Contingent Reserve Arrangement (CRA) to provide assistance to members experiencing financial difficulties.1 Officials have stated they would like to launch the first lending activities in 2016. In theory, the NDB could prove quite beneficial for the global economy, but how it will work in practice remains to be seen. The United States and Europe have largely dominated the leadership of the World Bank and IMF, and those in the emerging world have expressed frustration at a lack of broader representation (including voting rights). While still much smaller in size than either the IMF or World Bank at the outset, the NDB could provide a vehicle for that kind of representation. And, the reality is that major countries around the world are concerned about the dominance of the US dollar as a reserve currency and as the currency in which major trade takes place around the world. That dominance puts the United States in a strong strategic position particularly when it comes to sanctions, something that is playing out currently amid the Russia-Ukraine crisis. I think the initial impact of this new development bank for emerging markets is that many countries could have a new source of financing for infrastructure projects that they may have not had available otherwise. Going forward, as the bank likely evolves to become a clearing house for trade finance in non-USD currencies, there could be gravitation toward different currency pricing for trade in emerging markets. Traders and investors will therefore likely have to rethink their risk models in regard to currencies. If the BRICS countries are able to achieve unity of purpose, this group and its new development bank could become very powerful in changing the global financial landscape. Of course, the big question is their ability to achieve unity. The capital for the bank will be divided among the five participating countries, although the economies of the countries are clearly not identical in size, and some may be more vulnerable (or dominant) than others at times. That is important, because the richer countries will likely be more dominant and the fact that China is the largest holder of foreign reserves will be a decisive factor, in my view. China will make the biggest contribution to the CRA — $41 billion. It is no surprise that the bank will be headquartered in Shanghai. Compared to the global banking system, the start of this new bank is small but we need to keep an eye on further developments.  Can these very different economies pull together in a unified way to make this endeavor a long-term success? That is the big question mark. These economies are different, with different histories and different cultures. Since China is the richest of the five, I think there will definitely be some concern about China taking a dominant role. In the beginning, China and India—the bank’s first president will be Indian—will likely play the largest role and have the potential to reap the most benefits from its success. Further ahead, Russia and Brazil could become more important; the first chair of the Board of Governors will be from Russia and the first chair of the Board of Directors will be from Brazil. The NDB Africa Regional Center will be established in South Africa concurrently with the headquarters, according to the Sixth BRICS Summit declaration. South Africa has the best infrastructure in all of Africa and has the potential to lead the entire continent to a new level of growth.  There are still issues that will need to be ironed out to make this a successful enterprise: primarily, what currency will be dominant and whose objectives the bank will have in terms of its lending policies. It remains to be seen if this effort ultimately turns out to be a good or bad idea. If these countries can come together to make this new bank a success, many other emerging markets could reap the benefits. If there are greater flows of funds to the emerging markets and particularly the BRICS, I believe this can be good for all of the world’s economies who trade extensively with them. Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets - Notes from Mark Mobius  Mark Mobius, Ph.D., executive chairman of Templeton Emerging Markets Group, joined Templeton in 1987. Currently, he directs the Templeton research team based in 15 global emerging markets offices and manages emerging markets portfolios. As he spans the globe in search of investment opportunities, his “Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets” blog gives readers a taste for what he does, when, where, why and how. Dr. Mobius has written several books, including “Trading with China,” “The Investor’s Guide to Emerging Markets,” “Mobius on Emerging Markets,” “Passport to Profits,” “Equities—An Introduction to the Core Concepts,” “Mutual Funds—An Introduction to the Core Concepts,” ”The Little Book of Emerging Markets,” and “Mark Mobius: An Illustrated Biography." Read more posts on Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets » FREE AppDownload
© AFP/File Mark RalstonPorn mogul Larry Flynt talks about the 40th anniversary of Hustler magazine at his office in Beverly Hills on August 26, 2014Los Angeles (AFP) - Porn veteran Larry Flynt is celebrating the 40th birthday of his X-rated magazine Hustler -- and from his gold-plated wheelchair he is as combative as ever in fighting for free speech.  "I'm the largest content provider in the world for adult material, (operating in) 60-70 countries and still growing," he told AFP in his vast rococo-decorated and deep-pile green carpeted Beverly Hills office. Dressed in a beige suit with gold and diamond rings, Flynt surveys photos ranged on his enormous, Napoleon-style desk including his wife and himself with Bill Clinton, as well as caricatures and a collection of his magazines.  The front cover of the anniversary edition has a blonde on all fours dressed only in garters and a string of pearls. Inside there is no such modesty, with hardcore porn in full-color close-up. "They did a poll recently -- 80 percent of the women who enjoy adult film care about the dialogue and the quality of production. Men they don't care, they take it raw," he smiled. The 71-year-old has been in his gold-plated wheelchair since an attack which left him paralyzed below the waist in 1978. While celebrating his magazine's four decades in print, he admits it is struggling, with circulation down from a peak of around three million during its heyday to "a couple of hundred thousand today", according to a Hustler spokesman. "Publishing is not good .. for anybody in America because Internet is replacing print. We'll continue the magazine as long as it is profitable. Then we'll go online," Flynt said. Hustler's website doesn't make much money either, competing with a tsunami of hardcore porn online which is often free, and made by amateurs. His business' future lies above all in TV porn channels and on-demand videos, but also in Hustler-themed sex accessory and clothing stores and casinos, which he is opening everywhere. "We're having our best year this year," he said. The sale of Hustler's Beverly Hills headquarters building for $89 million has doubtless helped the bottom line. But his proudest moments have been his legal victories in the fight for freedom of expression, he said. Over the years he has faced repeated lawsuits for pornography, for desecration of the US flag, refusing to reveal sources, defamation and, most famously, for "emotional distress." In 1983 Flynt was sued by the Reverend Jerry Falwell over a parody of the pastor which appeared in Hustler. After initially being found in the wrong, Flynt took the case all the way to the Supreme Court in 1988. The case was portrayed in the 1996 movie "The People vs. Larry Flynt" by director Milos Forman and starring Woody Harrelson, which was nominated for two Oscars. "We won a lot of important legal battles for The First Amendment ... like the case we had before the Supreme Court where parody was made protected speech," he said. "They couldn't run us out of business, even though they tried very hard," he said, adding that today's comedy news programs like The Daily Show and The Colbert Report could not exist without the parody ruling.  "Many people are confused about what free speech is all about. It is not freedom for the thought you love. It is freedom for the thoughts you hate the most," he added. Flynt is pro gay rights and against the death penalty -- he even campaigned, in vain, against the execution of the serial killer who put him in a wheelchair. While he is politically committed, it is "probably not for the same reason as most people. "I couldn't care less who's in office. It's who they appoint to the Supreme Court, because those people are appointed for life. And they really make the decisions that affect your everyday life." He notably cites the 2010 Citizens United ruling, which did away with restrictions on campaign contributions for institutions, and also "decided that corporations are people." The ruling was "the most ludicrous decision I've ever heard of," said Flynt.   FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersHONG KONG (Reuters) - Chinese e-commerce company Alibaba Group Holding Ltd is set to start formally pitching its New York initial public offering to investors in the week of Sept. 8, the New York Times reported, citing an unnamed person briefed on the decision. The IPO 'roadshow' had previously been expected to be launched this coming week, with pricing of the offer set for as early as Sept. 15. Pricing of the shares is now more likely to come later in that week, the paper added. An external spokeswoman for Alibaba in Hong Kong declined to comment on the IPO plans when contacted by Reuters on Saturday. The much-anticipated IPO could raise more than $20 billion, making it the biggest technology issue in the United States. Separately, citing a person familiar with the deal, The Wall Street Journal reported that Alibaba was waiting to finalize the IPO timing until it received final feedback from the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The company expects talks with the SEC to wrap up next week, the person said.   (Reporting by Elzio Barreto; Editing by Ian Geoghegan) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersVolkswagen logo is seen on the front of a Volkswagen vehicle at a dealership in CarlsbadBEIJING (Reuters) - China's anti-graft watchdog has said it is investigating a former senior executive at Volkswagen AG's Chinese venture, FAW-Volkswagen Automotive Co Ltd, for corruption, the latest target in a widening probe against the company. An Dewu, FAW's former deputy general manager, was investigated for "suspected serious violations of the law", the ruling Chinese Communist Party's discipline watchdog said late on Friday. The brief report did not give any details of the investigation. In China, the term "serious violations of the law" can be used to denote corruption. It was not possible to contact An or any of his representatives. Officials at Volkswagen in China and FAW could not be reached for comment. Li Pengcheng, a spokesman for FAW-Volkswagen, said he "does not know" anything about the investigation and referred all queries to FAW. The investigation into An was announced several days after China's corruption watchdog, the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection, said it was investigating another former and one current executive at the company for "seriously violating the law". The joint venture with state-owned FAW is one of the two car-making ventures the German automaker has in China. Volkswagen's luxury brand Audi and other foreign brands like Daimler AG's Mercedes-Benz and Fiat SpA's Chrysler have been under investigation in China over their pricing practices as Beijing steps up enforcement of its anti-monopoly laws. Earlier this month, the National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC), China's price regulator, said it would punish Audi and Chrysler for monopoly practices. It was not immediately clear if the two probes were related. Separately, the party's corruption watchdog said late on Friday it is also investigating Ren Runhou, the vice governor of northern Shanxi province, for "suspected serious violations of the law". Ren is the latest target amid an intensifying crackdown on graft in the province. President Xi Jinping has said endemic corruption threatens the Communist Party's very survival and has vowed to go after high-flying "tigers" as well as lowly "flies".   (Reporting by Sui-Lee Wee; Editing by Paul Tait) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFiat Chrysler CEO Marchionne answers questions from the media during the FCA Investors Day in Auburn HillsMILAN (Reuters) - The chief executive of Fiat-Chrysler, Sergio Marchionne, said on Saturday October 13 was the first possible date for the group to launch its initial public offering on Wall Street. "October 13 is the first possible date," Marchionne told reporters on the sidelines of a meeting in Rimini. He was speaking after the planned merger between Fiat and its U.S unit Chrysler cleared a major hurdle on Friday when Fiat said not enough dissenting shareholders had exercised a legal right to tender their shares for the tie-up to fail.  (Reporting by Paolo Biondi, writing by Silvia Aloisi) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersSign is seen on Wall Street near the New York Stock ExchangeNEW YORK (Reuters) - Beaten-down U.S. coal company stocks may receive a lift in coming weeks if deteriorating relations between Russia and the West push President Vladimir Putin to shut off Europe’s natural gas supply. The crisis in eastern Ukraine has emboldened Europe and the United States to impose broad sanctions on Russia. But Europe finds itself in a precarious position, with almost a third of the natural gas the continent consumed in 2013 flowing from Russia, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration. Europe’s heightened concerns about energy security could provide an opportunity for U.S. coal companies, which have been hurt by declining domestic consumption, to step in and fill the gap as winter approaches. More than half of U.S. coal exports already reach Europe. "Export demand will certainly increase, with the situation in Russia and Ukraine having a big impact on Europe with respect to natural gas," said Ernie Cecilia, chief investment officer at Bryn Mawr Trust in Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania. "In the short term, there's no question that a rise in export demand will be helpful to coal stocks." Yet significant headwinds at home would likely make any comeback in coal companies’ stocks short-lived and hard-fought. Even as the broader stock market has rebounded from the lows seen during the financial crisis, coal stocks have languished. Shares of Peabody Energy Corp &lt;btu.n&gt;, the biggest U.S. producer of coal, have declined more than 27 percent since March 9, 2009, when the S&amp;P 500 hit its financial crisis nadir, closing at 676.53 points. While the S&amp;P has nearly tripled from that day, the Dow Jones U.S. Coal Index &lt;.DJUSCL&gt; has lost 7.7 percent in that time. The last three-plus years have been particularly bad for the coal index, which has lost nearly three-quarters of its value since April 2011. The index includes just three stocks - Peabody, CONSOL Energy &lt;cnx.n&gt; and Alpha Natural Resources &lt;anr.n&gt;. CONSOL, which is more diversified and derives around a third of its revenue from natural gas, is the only one up on the year so far. It has gained 5.3 percent, but still lags the wider S&amp;P 500 &lt;.SPX&gt;, which is up more than 8 percent. Peabody is down around 20 percent this year, and Alpha Natural has swooned 45 percent. CONSOL is the only one of the three expected to show a profit in the next two years, according to Thomson Reuters StarMine, which tracks corporate profit estimates. Competition with natural gas, the emergence of renewable energy technologies and new environmental regulations contributed to a fall in U.S. coal production in 2013 to the lowest levels since 1993, according to the Energy Information Administration. Domestic coal consumption is slated to decline by 2.7 percent in 2015, as federal standards requiring power plants to reduce air pollution expedites a shuttering of coal power plants. U.S. coal consumption peaked in 2007 and has declined nearly 37 percent since then, EIA data shows. That may temper any gains in coal stocks, both in scale and duration. "I just don’t know if any of this – the situation in Russia and Ukraine – would be sufficient enough to overcome significant pressure in the domestic market," Cecilia said. Energy stocks have overall remained favorable for investors, but not necessarily those with money in coal. The S&amp;P 500 energy sector &lt;.SPNY&gt; is outperforming the wider index with a 9.3 percent gain so far in 2014. "We look at the domestic energy landscape, and the abundant supply of natural gas has impacted coal dramatically," said Timothy Rooney, vice president of product management and research for Nationwide Funds. "Generally, energy in the U.S. is a good long term investment, but that’s really being driven by oil and natural gas."   (Reporting by Akane Otani; Editing by Leslie Adler) FREE AppDownload
