(Reuters) - Royal Bank of Scotland &lt;RBS.L&gt; has become the latest overseas bank to shrink its business in the United States after announcing it would cut its mortgage trading business by two-thirds, the Financial Times reported on Tuesday. The British bank will eliminate hundreds of jobs in the United States over the course of two years as part of an effort to reduce its assets ahead of new rules set out by the U.S. Federal Reserve, the FT reported citing people familiar with an internal announcement made by RBS on Tuesday. An RBS spokesperson told Reuters in an emailed response that "as the financial services industry continues to evolve so must RBS's U.S. Corporate &amp; Institutional Banking business. Our ultimate goals are to enhance our client focus and connectivity, simplify our operating model, mitigate risk and reduce cost." The RBS cuts primarily affect the non-agency mortgage business, and the British bank is expected to retain its securitization and agency mortgage business, the FT said. The U.S. Federal Reserve in February adopted tight new rules for foreign banks to shield the U.S. taxpayer from costly bailouts, ceding only minor concessions despite pressure from abroad to weaken the rule. The largest foreign banks, with $50 billion or more in U.S. assets, need to set up an intermediate holding company subject to the same capital, risk management and liquidity standards as U.S. banks, the Fed had said in February.   (Reporting by Aashika Jain in Bangalore; Editing by Lisa Shumaker) FREE AppDownload
Immigrants have always come to America, and the source of those immigrants has changed over time. Via Vox, the Pew Research Center tabulated Census records going back to 1850 to see which countries sent the most immigrants to each state at different points in the country's history. Pew made maps comparing the biggest sources of immigrants to each state from the 1910 and 2010 censuses. There's a clear shift from European immigrants to Mexican immigrants over the last century: Pew Research Center During the height of emigration from Europe to the U.S. in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, Germany was the largest supplier of immigrants to the U.S. In the second half of the 20th century and the early 21st century, Mexico has become the most common country of origin, with 29% of all immigrants nationwide. Pew found that this trend also happened at the state level, and they made this GIF showing the states where Germany and Mexico provided the most immigrants over the last century and a half: Pew Research Center   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/KhamProtesters hold anti-China placards while marching in an anti-China protest on a street in Hanoi May 11, 2014.Good morning, and welcome to Wednesday! Here’s what you need to know. Beats in the US. Three big data releases in the US beat expectations overnight: durable goods orders, the Case-Shiller home price index, and the Markit flash Services PMI which at 58.4 far outstripped expectations of 55.4. More here. Markit says the “pendulum appears to be swinging towards firmer economic growth” in the northern summer. Markets rise. Stocks rallied on the strong data in the first trading session back after a three-day weekend in the US. The S&amp;P hit another all-time intraday and closing high, finishing up 0.6% to 1911.91. The Dow was up 0.4% and the Nasdaq had a strong day, up 1.2%. Asia to follow. There’s little data of note in the region today so markets are likely to follow the US into positive territory and ASX futures are pointing to a rise at the open. Shanghai was down 0.32% yesterday while the Nikkei was up 0.24%. China tensions. The skirmishes around China’s territory continue. Yesterday, a Chinese fishing vessel rammed and sank a Vietnamese fishing boat. Over the weekend Chinese jets flew within metres of Japanese military planes over the East China Sea. And a huge oil rig China has in the South China Sea – the cause of the recent deadly protests in Vietnam – has finished drilling in one spot and is about to move to another area. Fearful Aussie consumers. The two key surveys on Australian consumer sentiment – the Westpac-MI monthly survey and the ANZ-Roy Morgan weekly index – have been showing increasing consumer anxiety in Australia, and it all appears to be driven by the federal budget. The fall continued yesterday with the release of the latest Roy Morgan data. It’s now clearly the scariest chart in the Australian economy: The government is now very aware of the importance of selling the budget to people and also convincing them that it’s not going to hit them as hard in the short-term as many people clearly think it will. Negotiations are getting underway with the minor parties in the Senate to pass the measures but with the new Senators to arrive in July the uncertainty may well continue for weeks to come. One strong point: both of the consumer surveys show people are actually more positive about economic conditions in the long-term. Perhaps the government should be starting there and working backwards. Chromecast is here. Google’s streaming device that plugs into your TV and lets you watch video streamed from a phone or laptop is available for $49 in Australia from today. The wave of disruption to traditional TV services long underway in the US is now starting to really heat up in Australia. Rumours persist about Netflix, the home of House of Cards, launching in Australia at some point, though the company says it has no firm plans as yet. It’s still a long way from being a worry for Foxtel however, especially when it comes to live sport. The entrepreneurial delusion. A review of the characteristics of successful people shows one overarching theme: they are over-confident. This is a necessary basis for a “can-do” attitude so sought-after in organisations, but it also borders on a person’s delusion about their ability. Nobel Prize-winning psychologist Daniel Kahneman says it’s necessary, given the extremely high failure rate of small businesses. But the optimism and belief also makes for leaders, because people are drawn to them more than to realists. More here. Google logo change. It’s only the slightest shift imaginable but it was picked up on Reddit (where else). Google has made a change that looks to be about a pixel’s worth to two letters. We’re not sure if this is a case of too much time on people’s hands, or Redditors having superhuman eyes. Surface Pro, no. Business Insider’s Steve Kovach reviews the Surface Pro 3, which Microsoft has done a pretty good job of positioning as the tablet that can finally replace your laptop. Steve disagrees. “This is my third Surface review, and it’s the third time I have to say the same thing. The Surface Pro 3 is a mediocre tablet and a mediocre laptop. Put those two together, and you have a pricey device that still isn’t as ideal as using something more traditional.” Yow. Origin time. The greatest rugby league rivalry gets underway again tonight, with NSW hoping to avoid a ninth consecutive series loss to Queensland in the State of Origin series, known for its thrilling moments and hard tackles. Here’s a reminder of what these guys are putting on the line.  This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Three Things Advisors Need To Do To Attract More Female Clients (Vanguard)  A Boston Consulting Group survey found that women would control $30 trillion of the world's wealth by 2014. Naturally, advisors not making an effort to involve women in the investment process are missing out on a huge opportunity. Michael Liersch, head of behavioral finance for Merrill Lynch, tells Vanguard that there are three things advisors looking to attract female clients need to do.  1. Advisors should let the client know that irrespective of how much or little investing experience she has, they want her involved in the process. 2. They should ask "critical questions in a structured way to get the client's thoughts and feelings about investing."3. Advisors need to be "open and empathetic to the circumstances that that individual may have been going through up until this point." Portfolio Management Was The Top Issue Among Advisors In Q1 (Fidelity Financial Advisor Solutions) The new Fidelity Advisor Investment Pulse survey highlighted top issues among advisors in Q1 2014: 1. Portfolio management and investment allocation; 2. Fixed income; 3. Rising market volatility, downside risk and avoiding a meltdown; 4. Interest rates; 5. Finding yield or generating income.  "In the first quarter of 2014, many financial advisors and their clients were thinking about what to do with their portfolios if interest rates rise,” said Scott E. Couto, president, Fidelity Financial Advisor Solutions. "Interestingly, they have been less focused on what many consider the ‘flip side’ of rising rates: inflation. Fidelity offers a range of insights that can help advisors navigate through a new era in portfolio management -- both focusing on the near- and long-term environment." The Entire Debate Over Record-High Profit Margins Has Pivoted (Business Insider)  Stock market bears argue that profit margins are high and unsustainable. They expect margins to contract and this to cause stock prices to fall. Meanwhile, Deutsche Bank's David Bianco and Philosophical Economics' Jesse Livermore have argued that this level is sustainable. But Livermore and Bianco have now changed the direction of the debate by arguing that we should be looking at profits relative to capital and not profit margins.  "The mistake we’re making here is to assume that corporations “compete” for profit margins," wrote Livermore on Sunday. "They don’t.  Profit margins have no value at all.  What has value is a return. The decision to expand into the market of a competitor and seek additional return is not a decision driven by the expected profit margin, the expected return relative to the anticipated quantity of sales.  Rather, it’s a decision driven instead by the expected ROE, the expected return relative to the amount of capital that will have to be invested, put at risk, in order to earn it." Deutsche BankHow Advisors Can Deal With Personal Bankruptcies (Investment News)  The number of Americans filing for bankruptcy climbed during the financial crisis, in instances where one couple lost their job or because of overwhelming medical bills. But explaining a bankruptcy to a client can be difficult.  "I'm a big fan of transparency, especially in this day and age," Jay Fleischman bankruptcy attorney at Shaev Fleischman told Liz Skinner at Investment News. "So many people have been through the ringer financially that bankruptcy doesn't have the same stigma that it did a decade ago." Bankruptcy attorney Mark Buckley advises clients to file for bankruptcy as a last resort and try instead to downsize their home or move their children to a public school.  Here's Why Saving For College Is Not Enough (JP Morgan Funds) 69% of money set aside for a college education is held in cash accounts because parents and grandparents have been distrustful of the financial market. But the interest on cash can't keep pace with tuition inflation, according to JP Morgan Funds. "In rolling 18-year periods since the late 1970s, cash has not kept pace with the average tuition increase," according to JP Morgan Funds. "A diversified 50-50 10% portfolio of stocks and bonds offers higher 8% returns than cash, and gives the investor the opportunity to achieve returns high enough to pay for Junior’s education." JP Morgan Funds FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucy Nicholson People protesting Wal-Mart's wage practicesProxy advisory firm Institutional Shareholder Services, commonly known as ISS, has issued a new report recommending Wal-Mart shareholders vote against two existing directors, as well as the company's executive compensation proposals. The report takes Wal-Mart to task for not disclosing information to shareholders regarding investigations into alleged violations by the company of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. ISS notes that as of May 15, Wal-Mart has spent more than $450 million on investigations reviews related to the FCPA allegations, which stem from a 2012 New York Times report outlining alleged bribery at the company's Mexican subsidiary.  From ISS (emphasis ours):  "We noted in our report last year that the FCPA investigation had continued for approximately 18 months, at a cost to date in excess of $200 million... The company cannot predict at this time the outcome or impact of the on-going government investigations, the shareholder lawsuits, or its own internal investigations and review, but expects to continue to incur additional costs. Shareholders should keep in mind that, according to the company, it has already spent more than $450 million as of May 15, 2014 and these costs only relate to the investigations and the company's compliance program/process improvements in aggregate. Hence, the company could be faced with fines, legal expenses, or other costs depending on the outcome of the investigations, the magnitude of which is unknown at this time." ISS recommends shareholders vote against former CEO Mike Duke, as well as S. Robson Walton, who is the chairman of the board and beneficial owner of more than 50% of the company's voting stock, according to ISS. Last year, ISS recommended shareholders vote against Duke, Walton, and then-Audit Committee chair Christopher Williams for similar failings. Each of those directors were ultimately supported by more than 87% of shareholders excluding abstaining voters.   ISS' recommendations come after CtW Investment Group, which works with union-sponsored pension funds, earlier this month sent a letter to Wal-Mart shareholders urging them to vote against the retailer's executive compensation proposal, as well as director Linda Wolf, chair of the company's Compensation, Nominating &amp; Governance Committee.  On the issue of executive pay, ISS found, among other things, that certain short-term incentive goals were relaxed, some long-term goals were lowered, and numerous adjustments were made to incentive plan results. ISS notes that most features of Wal-Mart's executive pay program do not, "on an individual basis raise significant concern in the context of the company's size and comparable peers' compensation programs and practices." But ISS says that in the aggregate, "a somewhat troubling picture does emerge from the sum of these parts."  And while board change at the family-controlled retail behemoth will most certainly not result from the ISS and CtW reports, investors have begun to express displeasure with Wal-Mart via the company's stock. Over the last year, shares of Wal-Mart are down about 2%, and since the middle of 2012, the stock has essentially been dead money, with the share price range-bound between $70 and $80. This chart from ISS shows how Wal-Mart has underperformed both the S&amp;P 500 and the food staples index.  Institutional Shareholder Services For its fiscal year ended January 31, Wal-Mart's earnings per share fell 3% from the prior year. Wal-Mart's first quarter results earlier this month were also lackluster. Wal-Mart's traffic trends, foreign performance and its faltering return on investment were also outlined here.  Wal-Mart's annual meeting is scheduled for June 6. (Via WSJ). FREE AppDownload
New York and San Francisco are more expensive than the rest of the U.S., and the Bureau of Economic Analysis has made it much easier to see just how much more expensive they are. The Consumer Price Index, the most commonly used measure of price inflation, measures changes in prices over time. The Bureau of Economic Analysis has created a spatial analog of the index, comparing prices between different places at a given point in time. These are called Regional Price Parities (RPPs), and they make it possible to compare the cost of living in different places. RPPs are an index based on comparing local prices to national price levels. For example, the New York metropolitan area has an RPP of about 122. This means that prices in New York are about 22% higher than national average prices. Meanwhile, the part of Minnesota that falls outside of a metropolitan area has an RPP of 86, indicating that prices are 14% lower than the national average there. Here's a map showing the 2012 RPPs for the country's major metropolitan areas, and the nonmetropolitan parts of each state. Blue areas have prices lower than the national average and red areas are more expensive: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Bureau of Economic Analysis The most expensive place was Honolulu, with an RPP of 122.9. The big coastal cities also had prices much higher than the national average. The least expensive metro area in the country was Danville, IL, with an RPP of 79.4. Nonmetropolitan areas of states, that is, rural areas and smaller towns, tended to have lower prices than the U.S. as a whole, especially in the South and Midwest. Here are the ten most expensive metro areas: Bureau of Economic Analysis And the ten least expensive: Bureau of Economic Analysis FREE AppDownload
Solar Roadway/IndiegogoSolar Roadways, the firm started by an Idaho husband and wife to realize their goal of repaving America's asphalt with solar panels, passed the $1 million mark in an Indiegogo fundraising campaign this past Sunday. The couple has now raised $1,419,262. They beat their deadline by a week.  In our write-up of the firm earlier this month, we included Julie and Scott Brusaw's explanation for why they're raising money through Indiegogo as opposed to going a more sophisticated route. Here it is again: The idea to launch a crowdfunding campaign came to us from so many supporters that we looked into it. We have always been concerned about protecting our vision to implement this in the way that we think will have the most benefit: creating American jobs rather than outsourcing and then adding manufacturing facilities in other countries. That way we could help the economies everywhere providing many thousands of jobs. We have a vision for the way our facilities will be - campus like - with a positive atmosphere. We want to use as many recycled materials as we can and keep our manufacturing process as green as possible. We could go on, but you get the picture. If we can raise enough funds here, we won't have to take on an investor and we won't have to worry about losing our focus. If you like our vision and want to help, we'd be honored to have you in our corner. In a post on Facebook, the pair said they'd stopped updating their Indiegogo page "because it just goes so fast now." The Brusaws did not respond to calls or emails for comment. FREE AppDownload
It's no secret that the cost of a higher education continues to surge.  The College Board reports that tuition, fees and room and board charges at private nonprofit four-year colleges were up 14% over the five years from the 2008-09 to 2013-14 to $30,094. In public four-year colleges they were up over 27% in the same period to $8,893. According to JP Morgan Funds, 69% of the money set aside for a college education is held in cash accounts because parents and grandparents are worried about the risk of investing in financial markets.  But the interest on cash can't keep pace with tuition inflation. "In rolling 18-year periods since the late 1970s, cash has not kept pace with the average tuition increase," according to JP Morgan Funds. Rather than just saving cash, the analysts recommend taking risk and investing. "A diversified 50-50 10% portfolio of stocks and bonds offers higher 8% returns than cash, and gives the investor the opportunity to achieve returns high enough to pay for Junior’s education." JP Morgan Funds FREE AppDownload
Mike Ehrmann/Getty ImagesMarkets were higher following the three-day Memorial Day weekend, with the S&amp;P 500 making both an all-time intraday and closing record high.  First, the scoreboard: Top stories of the day: FREE AppDownload
ScreenshotWhen the SEC got a bunch of private equity execs in a room earlier this month, Special Inspector Andrew J. Bowden did not have good news. His discussion was basically a warning that the SEC was going to start looking deeper into the industry. And one of the things the agency would be looking into, per his comments, is the very basis of the PE industry's dealmaking — the agreement between PE firms and their portfolio companies, or limited partnership agreements (LPAs), which are considered trade secrets. "Many limited partnership agreements are broad in their characterization of the types of fees and expenses that can be charged to portfolio companies (as opposed to being borne by the adviser)," said Bowden. "This has created an enormous grey area, allowing advisers to charge fees and pass along expenses that are not reasonably contemplated by investors. Poor disclosure in this area is a frequent source of exam findings. We’ve also seen limited partnership agreements lacking clearly defined valuation procedures, investment strategies, and protocols for mitigating certain conflicts of interest, including investment and co-investment allocation." In other words, some of these agreements are written so that firms make a bundle at everyone else's expense. Moreover, they're considered trade secrets so not a lot of people get to see them. Over the holiday weekend, though, blog Naked Capitalism managed to get their hands on 12 LPAs from the Pennsylvania Treasury's public e-contracts library and published them. (Via Fortune's Dan Primack) This is complex stuff so we'll give you two big ideas people are taking from the documents. "By far, the most common observation our examiners have made when examining private equity firms has to do with the adviser’s collection of fees and allocation of expenses. When we have examined how fees and expenses are handled by advisers to private equity funds, we have identified what we believe are violations of law or material weaknesses in controls over 50% of the time," said Bowden last month. If that doesn't get some people in Congress angry, what can? FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsWith Best Buy continuing the struggle to revive its ailing retail business, the company has blamed some of its problems on the lack of cool new electronic items to sell. Discussing its problems during an earnings call, the company cited an external "lack of innovation" as a reason for the sales declines. That might sound like blaming musicians for the massive drop in the number of record stores, but analysts agree that the lack of a next big thing has contributed to the chain's struggles. "It is very believable. There really hasn't been that 'wow' product within the consumer electronics industry within the last six or eight months," Brian Sozzi, CEO of Belus Capital Advisors, told CNN Money. No help is coming Best Buy made more money in the first quarter than it did in the same period a year ago despite having smaller sales. The company did that by improving its pricing in relation to competitors and online retailers while improving its customer service, CEO Hubert Joly said. Most importantly the electronics retailer lowered its expenses as part of its ongoing Renew Blue savings plan. The company plans to continue refining its operations, something it needs as it forecasts that sales will continue to fall. The company also blames its expected future sales struggles on the lack of new tech items coming from its vendors. "We are also expecting ongoing softness in the mobile phone category as consumers eagerly await highly anticipated new product launches," Sharon McCollam, Best Buy CFO, said in a press release. "Consequently, absent any major product launches, we are expecting comparable sales to be negative in the low-single digits in both the second and third quarters." Best Buy is doing the right thing While its overall business model may be flawed, Best Buy under Joly has taken strong steps to cut expenses in order to buy time. Making a higher profit on lower sales may not be as desirable as seeing both sales and profit increase, but it's better than losing money. Joly has taken a company that had lost its way and re-engineered into one that executes a dying business model really well. That is not a recipe for long-term success, but it stops the bleeding. Best Buy was on a slow (or maybe not so slow) death march. Joly might not have saved the company yet, but he made the march a whole lot longer.  Where does Best Buy go next? Depending on technological advancement to drive sales seems like a very risky game for Best Buy to play. There is certainly no guarantee that the next smart phone is around the corner or that whatever technological advance will happen next will be one that people shop for in stores. The biggest challenge to the Best Buy model and the biggest threat to its recovery may be the rapid move to digital sales. Remember when every Best Buy had a large section selling CDs? Now the chain's two locations nearest to my Connecticut home sell just a smattering of CDs and the section devoted to DVDs has shrunk dramatically too. The video game section still has the same amount of space but the days of people buying physical discs for games may be coming to a close. Games sold via download have already surpassed sales of games on a physical disc, according to research company NPD. "Full game downloads, add-on content, subscriptions, mobile and social network games generated the most cash last year, accounting for $7.22 billion," according to NPD, while physical games earned only $6.34 billion. Best Buy has already been cut out of the loop when it comes to selling games on mobile phones and tablets and it's slowly getting choked out of the supply chain for consoles. Both Sony and Microsoft have stores on their next generation consoles that make it possible to download new titles without waiting in line at a store. The console makers don't need Best Buy so it's in their best interest to steer sales away from the retailer. Why share profit with a store when you can sell direct and make more (while possibly even charging less). It's not just content sales (music, movies, TV, and video games) that Best Buy has to worry about losing. The Internet makes it easier for companies to sell their own products without needing a retail partner. That means that even if a tech company creates the next big thing tomorrow there is no guarantee that thing will be on the shelves at a Best Buy. Joly has done a good job Fixing Best Buy was never going to happen quickly and by lowering expenses and raising profits Joly has given his company time to figure out a model that works. The focus on the Geek Squad makes sense because there is no way to digitally download someone mounting a flat screen in your living room. But that model needs to be tweaked as services are often so expensive that figuring it out yourself often is a better choice. Joly has also smartly made deals with Samsung and Microsoft for stores-within-a-store locations at select locations. This model could be the key to chain's salvation as the retailer could morph into a kind of bazaar of brand shops. If Best Buy has anything in excess it is space and that space can be used to create brand experiences. In that model Best Buy becomes a sort of mini-mall for electronics. That arrangement makes it easier for vendors to create a branded retail presence while Best Buy gets to spread out its significant overhead expenses. These stores-within-a-store could be a mix of permanent partners and shops set up around product launches or for seasonal items. Whatever Best Buy's future holds it's clear that waiting for technology companies to create the next big thing is not the answer. And the company knows that ... even if it has chided those companies for not helping enough. Daniel Kline is long Microsoft. He likes browsing at Best Buy but rarely buys anything there. The Motley Fool owns shares of Microsoft. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days. We Fools may not all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. FREE AppDownload
brianwc / FlickrIn a presentation at the Deutsche Bank Global Financial Services Investor Conference, Citigroup CFO John Gerspach warned that the bank's equity and fixed income trading revenue could be down 20%-25% compared to the prior year. Gerspach said that for the second quarter: "Institutional revenues should decline, driven by lower trading activity relative to both the prior quarter and the prior year. Historically low volatility, an uncertain global macro environment, and geopolitical events have all combined to drive volumes lower, particularly in May. And so this quarter's trading results could vary depending on the level of client activity we see over the next five weeks. We currently expect total trading revenues for equities and fixed income to be down in the range of 20% to 25% year-over-year." Citigroup's warning on declining trading revenues comes after JPMorgan warned in its 10-Q for the first quarter that its markets revenue, comprised of consumer and investment bank fixed income &amp; equities, could decline 20% in the second quarter.  JPMorgan cited a "challenging environment" and lower client activity levels as the reasons for its decline. Citigroup shares came off their best levels following Gerspach's comments, but remain higher by 0.7% in afternoon trade.  You can view Citigroup's entire presentation here and listen to the webcast here.  FREE AppDownload
Julie Zeveloff/Business InsiderFor New Yorkers, there's nothing better than escaping the city on a hot summer weekend. But getting out of town is another story. Anyone who's ever tried to get to the Hamptons on a Friday afternoon knows the traffic on the Long Island Expressway can be hellish, and Long Island Rail Road ticket lines at Penn Station are even worse. There is, however, another way to hightail it from the city to the Hamptons: by seaplane. Not only is it a quick, 40-minute (or so) hop from the East River seaport to destinations out east, there's no chance of traffic or rowdy neighbors, and the view is pretty spectacular. There's also the small matter of cost. Fly The Whale, one of several companies that offers seaplane service in the New York area, charges $3,700 for a 9-person charter flight from Manhattan to East Hampton, and single seats on "shared" charters for $550. The company also flies to Westhampton, Shelter Island, Montauk, and other Hamptons towns. Last year, I took a Fly The Whale seaplane from Manhattan to Sag Harbor to tour a new luxury condo complex. It sure beat Penn Station at rush hour. Disclosure: Sag Development Partners, the owners of the Watchcase development in Sag Harbor, paid for my travel expenses.
REUTERS/Lucy NicholsonIn the past year, Elon Musk has launched rockets into space, challenged federal authorities, and proposed a transcontinental monorail.  But stakes of those campaigns pale in comparison to what's riding on his new project: the gigafactory. First announced last fall, the gigafactory is a planned facility that would allow Tesla to manufacture mountains of lithium ion batteries to be used in both Tesla's electric vehicles, as well as power storage units sold by Tesla's sister company, SolarCity. In essence, the fate of both companies (Tesla and SolarCity, both of which are Musk's) will depend on the gigafactory. Tesla currently gets its batteries from mega manufacturers like Panasonic. To date, the market for electric vehicles has been too confined to allow the cost of batteries to come down. As a result, batteries remain the most expensive part of a Tesla.  Right now, Tesla says its current battery costs are $200-$300 per kilowatt-hour, although many analysts say it's closer to $500 (a gallon of gas equals 33.7 kwh). Through scale alone, the firm hopes the gigafactory will bring down costs by 30%. A $175 per kWh battery would be "very competitive" with even a mass market vehicle, Langan writes.  At a tech conference hosted by Tesla last week, Musk put things in even more stark terms: The company won't be able to function at all if it doesn't build a gigafactory — and will ultimately need hundreds of them. "We can’t figure out any other way to scale," the Wall Street Journal's Cassandra Sweet quoted Musk as saying. Morgan Stanley's Adam Jonas says Teslas has rebuked every single chapter of the Tesla bear case, from gross margins to fires, and even fears that the entire car could be hacked (Teslas now receive real-time security updates). "So far, at least, they’ve been doing it… doing it pretty well, actually," he wrote.  But this time may be different, as there seems to be a huge amount of doubt in the industry as to whether Tesla will be able to meet the targets it has set for the gigafactory. "Most investors we speak with believe such audacious vertical integration is hubris, adding significant risk to the Tesla story," Jonas wrote in a recent note.  First, the parts on a lithium ion battery most vulnerable to cost reductions don't exactly align with where Tesla says it can make the most progress. According to Argonne National Lab data cited by UBS' Colin Langan, more than three-quarters of battery costs are in raw materials alone. So right off the bat, it becomes very difficult to see where you can get a 30% cost savings. "We see Tesla’s ~$175 per kWh target as very challenging," Langan said. "We believe Argonne's cost forecast is optimistic and leaves little room for error."  UBS Meanwhile, the entire status of the project has only been penciled in. On Tesla's most recent conference call, Musk only said Panasonic had signed a "letter of intent." And while is the firm is shopping a number of states for the location of the first factory, it has not yet settled on one. Morgan Stanley's Jonas says there is no precedent for such a huge announcement with so little in place: A non-binding letter of intent with Panasonic sends the message of ‘we’re talking’. Stands to reason – they’ve been partners for years now. We can only imagine the intense debate between TSLA and its prospective Gigafactory partners on issues of economic, strategic and technical significance. And then there's the expense of the plant itself. The first gigafactory will cost $5 billion — more than double Tesla's entire 2013 revenues. Tesla is listing a $1.6 billion convertible debt offering to help pay for it, with $800 million of convertible senior notes due in 2019 and $800 million due in 2021. The 10 million-square-foot facility will employ more than 6,000 workers. Groundbreaking is set to come as soon as next month, with production beginning in 2017.  A successful gigafactory could have implications beyond Tesla. Cheaper batteries would further loosen electricity utilities' grips on homeowners with rooftop solar panels. Right now, most rooftop-paneled homes remain hooked into the local grid because the sun doesn't always shine — they still need their utility's juice. But cheaper storage would give homeowners the ability to power their own homes, allowing them to only tap into the grid in emergencies.  It would also prove a boon to the battery industrial complex. In a recent note on Polypore international, William Blair's Brian Drab said Tesla could account for more than half of earnings for battery materials supplier Polypore by 2020.  "Given Tesla’s plan, it is clear the opportunity is enormous," he wrote. But Shayle Khan, the senior vice president at GTM Research, says that for now, the solar storage industry (outside of SolarCity) is hoping for the best but is in no way depending on the gigafactory.  "I think it would be folly," he said. "There's no location, they won't be fully online until 2020...I don't think anyone is relying on this for [their] planning."  Jonas also still sees a buying opportunity, and Khan says there's reason to believe batteries are where solar was 10 years ago — still surrounded by doubt, but trending in an inevitable direction. "Ask somebody who’s been in solar, whether the more ambitious plans for manufacturing, worked out in that industry," he said. "It didn't work out for everybody, but the costs have declined faster than anybody predicted. Bottom line: Not much else matters for this company right now. FREE AppDownload
Gold prices are down 2% to $1,266.50 per ounce, and were at their lowest level since February 10. This comes after some positive economic data out of the U.S. on Tuesday morning. Other commodities are also falling. Silver is down 1.8%. Agricultural commodities are taking a beating with corn down 1.6% and wheat down 1.4%. Meanwhile, the S&amp;P 500 hit a new all-time intraday high of 1,911.08. Here's a look at the gold sell-off: Fin Viz FREE AppDownload
The OECD just released a report on obesity around the world, and there appears to be a link between the Great Recession and obesity. The OECD compiled the following chart, showing the percentage of children who are overweight in each country. Surprisingly, the U.S. does not top the list. While the U.S. had the highest obesity rate among adults, Greece had the largest proportion of overweight children. OECD The OECD found that families who suffer economic hardship end up cutting healthier foods out of their budget, instead buying cheaper food loaded with more calories, sugar, and fat. From the report, in 2008 and 2009, "households in the United Kingdom decreased their food expenditure by 8.5% in real terms, with some evidence of an increase in calorie intake (the average calorie density of purchased foods increased by 4.8%). This change resulted in additional 0.08 g of saturated fat, 0.27 g of sugar and 0.11 g of protein per 100 g of purchased food." The OECD cites evidence that this link between economic hardship and increased consumption of unhealthy food existed throughout Europe, Australia, and the United States. The recession even might have impacted exercise. In the U.S., after the economic crisis, leisure time exercise went up slightly, but this gain was more than offset by a huge loss in physical activity at work. FREE AppDownload
LinkedInJulian Okuyiga was approached to build Snapchat with Evan Spiegel and Reggie Brown, Brown said during his deposition. When Okuyiga didn't work out, the pair approached another Kappa Sigma brother, Bobby Murphy, instead.Two Stanford students missed out on the chance to be cofounders of Snapchat, the messaging app that's now worth billions.  According to new court documents, CEO Evan Spiegel approached at least two other fraternity brothers in a hunt for a technical co-founder, Jack Dubie and Julian Okuyiga. Eventually Spiegel landed on Bobby Murphy, who is Snapchat's current CTO. Murphy had formerly worked with Spiegel on a failed startup, Future Freshman. A third cofounder who was cut from the company in the early days, Reggie Brown, is currently suing Murphy, Spiegel and all their investors. He named Okuyiga and Dubie during his April 2013 deposition. Both were in the same fraternity as Brown and Spiegel, Kappa Sigma. Snapchat is a three-year old app that sends messages that disappear. Its last round of financing valued the company at just under $2 billion. Spiegel and Murphy have both reportedly pocketed $10 million selling their shares in the company to investors, and Murphy later purchased a $2.1 million house.  What are Dubie and Okuyiga up to now?  LinkedInJack Dubie is an engineer at Dropbox and founder of an app, LifeSwap. He was first approached to be the Bobby Murphy of Snapchat, according to Reggie Brown. Dubie is currently an engineer at Dropbox, according to his LinkedIn profile. He was part of Mailbox when Dropbox reportedly bought the email app for $100 million. He received his BS in mathematics from Stanford in 2011 and was in the same fraternity as Murphy, Spiegel and Brown. Julian Okuyiga is currently a summer analyst at Goldman Sachs according to LinkedIn. He was one year behind Spiegel in school. It's unclear why Dubie and Okuyiga turned down the opportunity to work on Snapchat. Neither responded to a request for comment. One person who can make them feel better is Joe Green. He could have co-founded Facebook with Mark Zuckerberg, but his dad didn't want him to. Here's part of Brown's deposition, where he describes his initial conversation with Spiegel about Snapchat and names Dubie and Okuyiga's big missed opportunities. LA Superior CourtLA Superior CourtLA Superior CourtLA Superior Court LA Superior CourtLA Superior Court LA Superior Court FREE AppDownload
OECDWASHINGTON (Reuters) - The rate of obesity continues to climb across the world's most developed countries, with certain nations and groups of people such as women and the poor hit harder by the recent economic crisis, the OECD said on Tuesday. While rates are rising as much as 3 percent a year in countries such as Australia, France, Mexico and Switzerland, they have been fairly stable in other countries such as the Unites States, Canada, Korea and Italy, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said in report. A review of available data showed that the global recession that struck in 2008 forced many families in harder-hit nations to cut back spending on food, especially healthier but often more expensive options such as fruits and vegetables, in favor of cheaper, less healthy options, it said. Even in nations that fared better in the economic slowdown, certain groups of people, particularly women and those who are less educated and have lower incomes, were also more likely to be obese, OECD found. "The economic crisis is likely to have contributed to further growth in obesity," OECD researchers wrote. Although the overall rate of obesity has slowed among more economically developed countries over the past five years, "the obesity epidemic has not stopped spreading," they added. The new report, based on a review of data from 10 OECD countries, will be presented on Wednesday at the European Congress on Obesity in Bulgaria. Most of the OECD's 34 members are wealthy countries such as the United States and European nations, although some emerging economies such as Mexico and Turkey are also included. The group does not include China, India or other bigger developing countries. Rising obesity rates can also add economic burden as governments grapple with the costs of chronic conditions linked to obesity such as diabetes, heart disease and even cancer. Current efforts aimed at preventing further weight gain, including using financial incentives to boost wellness or increasing basic health exams, are improving, OECD said. "The economic crisis may have contributed to a further growth in obesity, but most governments need to do more to stop this rising tide," OECD health policy analyst Michele Cecchini said in a statement. Other policy efforts, such as stricter rules for advertising unhealthy foods to children, better food labeling and "carefully designed" food and beverage taxes could have an impact, the Paris-based organization said. One bright spot in the OECD's review: although on average one in five children in developed countries is overweight, "more countries have managed to stabilize or even slightly reduce rates of child obesity than they have of adult obesity." A copy of the OECD report is online at: http://www.oecd.org/els/health-systems/Obesity-Update-2014.pdf   (Reporting by Susan Heavey; Editing by Sofina Mirza-Reid) FREE AppDownload
We all want to move up the ladder, but tend to screw it up way too often. Produced By Matt Johnston.Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Market gurus like Deutsche Bank's David Bianco and Jesse Livermore of the Philosophical Economics blog continue to defend their theses that corporate profit margins are sustainable at higher-than-historical levels. The sustainability of these margins is one of the hottest debates among stock market watchers today, with the bears predicting that margins will contract sharply. They argue that contracting margins will mean collapsing profits and ultimately tumbling stock prices. But in an unexpected twist, Bianco and Livermore independently pivoted the debate in the same direction. Both argue that we should be considering profits relative to capital (e.g. return on equity (ROE) or return on assets (ROA)), not profit margins (that is, profits as a percentage of sales). After all, return on capital is the primary metric a business considers before making an investment. "Profits of GDP and net margins are incomplete profit metrics," said Bianco in a research note on Friday. "Profits should be measured relative to capital employed and both NIPA based ROA and S&amp;P financial statement based ROE measures are consistent with history." "The mistake we’re making here is to assume that corporations “compete” for profit margins," wrote Livermore on Sunday. "They don’t.  Profit margins have no value at all.  What has value is a return. The decision to expand into the market of a competitor and seek additional return is not a decision driven by the expected profit margin, the expected return relative to the anticipated quantity of sales.  Rather, it’s a decision driven instead by the expected ROE, the expected return relative to the amount of capital that will have to be invested, put at risk, in order to earn it." ROE and profit margins aren't mutually exclusive. In theory, the profit margin is just one of several variables that drive ROE; other variables include asset turnover, leverage, borrowing costs, and tax rates. In theory, a shrinking operating profit margin can be offset by a combination of higher asset turnover, lower borrowing costs, higher leverage, or lower taxes. "The right metric to focus on, the metric that actually mean-reverts in theory and in practice, is return on equity (ROE)," emphasized Livermore. "Right now, the return on equity of the U.S. corporate sector is not as elevated as the profit margin, a fact that has significant implications for debates about the appropriateness of the U.S. stock market’s current valuation." Bianco provided a series of charts including the one below. As you can see, ROE isn't at an unreasonable level. This chart also shows the growing capital depth of the U.S. economy.  "The higher share of S&amp;P profits as % of GDP is supported by higher S&amp;P equity book value as % of GDP," said Bianco. Deutsche Bank FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg / YouTubePaul McCulleyBIG NEWS: PIMCO — the somewhat troubled investment firm lead by Bill Gross — has hired Paul McCulley to be its chief economist, the Wall Street Journal reports. McCulley had previously been at PIMCO, but left in 2010. McCulley is one of the smartest, most interesting thinkers around. And his departure form PIMCO in 2010 has been associated by some (like Paul Krugman) to a dropoff in the firms's performance and understanding of the economy. Lately PIMCO has run into some troubles (the departure of co-CEO Mohamed El-Erian and embarrassing revelations about Gross) but this is a good hire. Meanwhile, we're looking out for his new headshot, and hoping he hasn't cut his hair. FREE AppDownload
ReutersA replica of the Statue of Liberty in Shenyang, Northeast China, has been making the rounds on Twitter this morning. But this isn't the first time we've seen large-scale replicas of global tourist destinations in China. The Asian giant with a rich cultural heritage of its own, has also incorporated architectural styles from around the world and in some instances tried to replicate Paris and towns in England. Shanghai rolled out a "One city, Nine Towns" scheme with small towns built in a different international style. We compiled 16 spots that China ripped off — admittedly, some of these are part of larger theme parks. FREE AppDownload
Mark Hulbert touted the 1928-1929 “scary parallel” in his 2/11 MarketWatch column. While he did note that there is a scaling issue in comparing the current DJIA to the frightening parallel, he nonetheless opined that “[i]f the market follows the same script, trouble lies directly ahead.” That omen is a tautology, of course. In the 2/18 Morning Briefing, I wrote: “What would it take to repeat the grim fundamental underpinnings of the scary scenario of 1928-1933? Another Lehman moment would do the trick, and make Hulbert and the other promoters of this grim scenario right on the money. Of course, there have been several variations of this ‘endgame’ scenario provoking anxiety attacks and corrections since the start of the current bull market. But Godot has yet to show on stage.” He remains a no-show. Other bears noted that there has been a very high correlation between the S&amp;P 500 and the Fed’s holdings of bonds. They continue to warn that the Fed’s tapering of QE, which is on track to be terminated by the end of the year, will terminate the bull market in stocks as well. This week’s Barron’s includes an interview with Stephanie Pomboy, the thought-provoking proprietor of MacroMavens. She argues that QE has propped up the economy, which hasn’t achieved self-sustaining growth. So she believes that “the Fed is going to have to taper the taper” because “the economy can't handle a reduction of stimulus.” I disagree. We won’t have to wait much longer to see who is right given that the Fed is on course to terminate QE by the end of the year. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Trekky Bull. (1) Star trekky bull tramples “Clingons.” (2) Will Godot arrive before next great crash? (3) Maven says Fed will have to taper the taper. (4) The problem with going away in May. (5) Great Moderation 2.0 could be bullish or bearish. (6) Will risky assets get riskier? (7) CLO 2.0, and CMBS 2.0 too. (8) Analysts turning more upbeat on earnings. (9) Nitpicking Picketty’s data. (10) The flaw in the neo-Marxist formula. (11) Italy adds vice to GDP. (13) “Godzilla” (- - -). (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
US Dept of Labor / FlickrWas he qualified? Now that 'Stress Test', Tim Geithner's book on the financial crisis, is out the 'qualified' question keeps coming up over and over again. "I would say I was unqualified," said Geithner in a meeting with journalists last week, "though in a relative sense more qualified than most people." This answer is something we should all be worried about. Geithner said that the pool of people working in government who could even approach"prepared-for-disaster" is getting smaller and smaller. It's a dark thought — the idea that we're running of Americans that know how to run the country — and there are two reasons why Geithner says the pool is shrinking. The first is a basic lack of interest. There were moments after Kennedy, Regan, and to a lesser extent Obama's elections that got people excited about serving in government again — but it hasn't been enough. The second reason is our political system. People who are interested in serving "have to be willing to put up with huge uncertainty in confirmation," said Geithner. "You need a Congress that can do stuff... and money plays too big a role in our system now." Sounds like a problem we've heard of before. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Private sector output grew at the fastest rate in four years, Markit Economics said Tuesday.  The broader reading of U.S. service activity hit a two-year high in May. "The survey should help alleviate concerns that the first quarter slowdown reflected underlying sluggishness in the US economy,” Markit's Tim Moore said in a release. At 58.6, private sector output registered its highest reading since April 2010. The chart shows how we're near a post-recession high. Markit Volumes of new work rose at the steepest pace since February 2011, signal-ling a marked rebound in new business momentum from the 18-month low registered in March, Markit said.  Full release » FREE AppDownload
Tim Boyle / Getty ImagesThe Conference Board's consumer confidence index climbed to 83 in May, in line with expectations.  This was up from a revised reading of 81.7 in April. Consumer spending accounts for about 40% of the economy and investors watch this to gauge how the economy is holding up. Here's the press release: The Conference Board Consumer Confidence Index®, which had decreased in April, improved moderately in May. The Index now stands at 83.0 (1985=100), up from 81.7 in April. The Present Situation Index increased to 80.4 from 78.5, while the Expectations Index edged up to 84.8 from 83.9 in April. The monthly Consumer Confidence Survey®, based on a probability-design random sample, is conducted for The Conference Board by Nielsen, a leading global provider of information and analytics around what consumers buy and watch. The cutoff date for the preliminary results was May 14. Says Lynn Franco, Director of Economic Indicators at The Conference Board: “Consumer confidence improved slightly in May, as consumers assessed current conditions, in particular the labor market, more favorably. Expectations regarding the short-term outlook for the economy, jobs, and personal finances were also more upbeat. In fact, the percentage of consumers expecting their incomes to grow over the next six months is the highest since December 2007 (20.2 percent). Thus, despite last month’s decline, consumers’ confidence appears to be growing.” Consumers’ assessment of present-day conditions improved in May. Those stating business conditions are “good” decreased to 21.1 percent from 22.2 percent, while those stating business conditions are “bad” declined to 24.1 percent from 24.8 percent. Consumers’ assessment of the labor market was more favorable. Those claiming jobs are “plentiful” rose to 14.1 percent from 13.0 percent, while those claiming jobs are “hard to get” decreased slightly to 32.3 percent from 32.8 percent. Consumers’ expectations increased slightly in May. The percentage of consumers expecting business conditions to improve over the next six months edged up to 17.5 percent from 17.2 percent, while those expecting business conditions to worsen decreased marginally to 10.2 percent from 10.5 percent. Consumers were more positive about the outlook for the labor market. Those anticipating more jobs in the months ahead increased to 15.4 percent from 14.7 percent, while those anticipating fewer jobs edged up to 18.3 percent from 18.0 percent. The proportion of consumers expecting their incomes to grow increased to 18.3 percent from 16.8 percent, but those expecting a drop in their incomes also increased, to 14.5 percent from 12.9 percent. FREE AppDownload
Release: 7 Consensus: 8 April: 7 Retail data surged. "Sales jumped up in May, as big-ticket sales spiked and shopper traffic returned," the survey said. "The index for sales revenues climbed to 53 from last month's reading of -5, while the big-ticket index gained 49 points to finish the survey period at 25. The shopper traffic indicator vaulted to 26 from -28. Retailers' inventories grew, with that index finishing at 35 compared to the April reading of -1. Merchants expected better markets for their products in the next six months. The index for expected demand rose to 20 from 3." Chart:  Richmond Fed FREE AppDownload
We just got March S&amp;P Case-Shiller home prices that beat expectations. The numbers showed home prices were cooling, but they nevertheless reflected increases on month-over-month and year-over-year bases. However, Ian Shepherdson chief economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics says "this report makes no sense." This is because "every indicator" of the house market he watches is slowing or falling.  "We don't know if the March problem is Easter seasonal adjustments or the long-standing issue of fully adjusting for changes in the proportion of foreclosure sales in the sample, but we think the real trend in existing home prices is now flat at best," Shepherdson writes. Shepherdson has previously pointed out that foreclosure data skews the home price report.  "As foreclosed homes typically sell for much less than regular private sales, a decline in the proportion of foreclosure sales will raise reported prices," he wrote back in April. "The correlation between changes in the proportion of foreclosures and the rate of increase of Case-Shiller home prices is not perfect, but it is real, as our first chart shows." This chart shows the difference between existing home prices and Case-Shiller home prices and why Shepherdson thinks the latest report makes no sense. Pantheon Macroeconomics FREE AppDownload
Business InsiderCan we just talk about Jamie Dimon's weekend style for a minute?  The JPMorgan Chase CEO was spotted by a spy of ours strolling down Park Avenue on Sunday afternoon wearing athletic shorts, flip-flops and one of his signature Hawaiian shirts. (He's known to wear those.) Our spy could only discreetly take the photo from the back, but the source said it was definitely Dimon after getting a glance at his face and hearing that noticeable Queens accent.  Dimon's outfit isn't exactly what you'd expect a Wall Street CEO—who was paid $20 million last year—to wear, but he rocked it like a boss.  After all, Dimon is a Wrangler jeans wearing kind of CEO. Apparently, he's also the kind of executive who doesn't have to head to the beach on a holiday weekend. Instead, he can just enjoy the beautiful weather in his neighborhood.   FREE AppDownload
Flickr/snappybexThe markets are higher following the three-day Memorial Day holiday weekend.  The S&amp;P 500 hit at a new all-time intraday high of 1,911.08, and is currently up 10 points (0.5%) to around 1,910. The Dow is up 74 points (0.45%), and the Nasdaq is up 36 points (0.9%).  Gold is also lower, down more than 1.5% to around $1,270 an ounce.  Earlier this morning, the Case-Shiller home price index posted a month-over-month increase in March that was larger than expected. U.S. durable goods orders also unexpectedly climbed.  Markit's U.S. service activity report came in at 58.4, a two-year high. Markit's private sector service output came in at 58.6, the best reading for that rate since April 2010.  The Conference Board's May consumer confidence reading came in at 83.0, which was in-line with expectations.  The Richmond Fed manufacturing index for May came in at 7, the same as was reported for April. The report said that retail sales gained in May, with big-ticket sales spiking and shopper traffic returning.  The biggest stock news of the day is chicken producer Pilgrim's Pride offering to buy Hillshire Brands in a deal worth $6.4 billion. Shares of Hillshire are up 22% to just north of $45, and Pilgrim's Pride is up about 4% following the announcement. Pinnacle Foods, which Hillshire agreed to acquire earlier this month, is down about 6%, as Pilgrim's offer for Hillshire requires a termination of its deal with Pinnacle.   Over the weekend, Pfizer also walked away from its bid to buy AstraZeneca. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsOppenheimer's investment research team is out with its latest market strategy note, and the firm's current mantra: "No boom, no bust!" It's an optimistic take on lackluster global growth. From Oppenheimer's John Stoltzfus (emphasis theirs): "It is our opinion that the Federal Reserve (as well as the ECB) is less likely to take a misstep in anticipating a change of rates so long as the Fed and the ECB maintain the level of vigilance that they have had in place over the past few years since the Great Crisis... We believe that a slow growth environment coming out of the Great Crisis is best for the economy, the markets, and their respective constituencies. It is our opinion that a modest expansion is preferable to a boom anytime as every boom we can recall in the last three decades has led to a bust of some kind. 'No boom, no bust!' is our mantra for now." The note comes after meetings with investors in the U.K. and Europe, which the firm said reflected "nearly universal" acceptance by  investors that international markets are interconnected and interdependent. "Ironically, this acceptance among investors has arrived at a point when political leaders in Asia, particularly Russia, China and Japan appear to be embracing with increasing fervor nationalist and regionalist objectives with regard to trade, border and mineral rights disputes," said Stoltzfus. Read more about those stories here and here. FREE AppDownload
Roger Kisby/GettyThe 20-city S&amp;P Case-Shiller home price index climbed 1.24% month-over-month in March. This was above expectations for a 0.7% MoM rise. Meanwhile, home prices were 12.37% year-over-year, above expectations for an 11.8% YoY rise. This compares to a revised 0.78% MoM rise in February and an unchanged 12.86% YoY rise the previous month. "The year-over-year changes suggest that prices are rising more slowly," David M. Blitzer, Chairman of the Index Committee at S&amp;P Dow Jones Indices said in a press release.  "Annual price increases for the two Composites have slowed in the last four months and 13 cities saw annual price changes moderate in March. The National Index also showed decelerating gains in the last quarter. Among those markets seeing substantial slowdowns in price gains were some of the leading boom-bust markets including Las Vegas, Los Angeles, Phoenix, San Francisco and Tampa." Here's the trajectory of home prices: S&P Case-ShillerIan Shepherdson at Pantheon Macroeconomics has previously explained why home prices can be skewed by fluctuating foreclosure sales. "As foreclosed homes typically sell for much less than regular private sales, a decline in the proportion of foreclosure sales will raise reported prices," he wrote back in April. "The correlation between changes in the proportion of foreclosures and the rate of increase of Case-Shiller home prices is not perfect, but it is real, as our first chart shows." FREE AppDownload
A Chicago person spotted a 72-foot Princess Yacht appropriately named "Moar Theta" on Lake Michigan this weekend. It's a name that only traders could truly appreciate. "Theta" refers to time decay on an option, or collecting premium from selling options. It represents the time variable in the Black Scholes option pricing model. Generally speaking, the larger the theta, the higher the option premium.  UPDATE: Our source initially thought he saw Ken Griffin, who runs options market-making firm/hedge fund Citadel, on board. It wasn't him.  The yacht is actually registered to J. Brian Schaer, records from the Coast Guard show. Schaer, who is from Miami, is a derivatives portfolio manager at well-known Chicago-based proprietary trading firm Ronin Capital, his LinkedIn profile shows.  We're also told that Schaer was a "legend on the floor" at the CBOT.  **We reported earlier that hedge fund manager Ken Griffin was seen on the boat. It wasn't Griffin. Our apologies.  Check out the photos:  Business Insider source  FREE AppDownload
Screenshot from NetflixA screenshot from the original "Freakonomics" documentary.For a pair of economists, Stephen J Dubner and Steven D Levitt are good company. In 2005, the American duo wrote "Freakonomics: a Rogue Economist Explores the Hidden Side of Everything".  It challenged conventional wisdom by applying economics to a diverse range of subjects, including drug dealing and abortion. Their theories – legal abortion reduces crime; good parenting has a negligible effect on education – were controversial, but the book sold millions of copies. Their third book, Think Like a Freak, was released earlier this month and on Monday afternoon at the Hay Festival, Dubner and Levitt, revealed the tricks that can help all of us think like a freak. "If you are the prime minister of a great nation which is facing possible extinction at the hands of Nazi Germany, then yes, giving up is not a good idea. For the rest of us, however, the stakes are usually not so high. So whether it’s a job or a relationship, we encourage quitting much more often than most people would. "There are two good reasons why people don’t quit enough. The first one is that it’s been drummed into us that we shouldn’t quit. The second one is that the cost of quitting usually comes right away and the benefits come in the future. It’s painful to tell your boss that you’re going to quit; it’s painful to tell your girlfriend that you don’t want to date her anymore and so you put it off and what really makes it hard is that, even if you really want to quit today, you always think: ‘I could stick it out and quit tomorrow.' It’s the tomorrow that really kills you. If you actually faced a deadline which says you could either quit today or never quit forever, it becomes much easier to quit." "When you feel strong emotionally about a problem it clouds your ability to actually understand the data. Let’s say you care deeply about climate change and you’re very emotional about climate change, it’s very difficult to think about the solutions to that because you’re so tied up in the emotional side. "When you’ve come up with a range of possible solutions, we completely believe that you should put your morality and ethics back into it and say: ‘what’s the positive and right thing to do now that we actually understand how the world works' as opposed to jumping to conclusions before you understand. Listen: The Freakonomics authors talk to the Telegraph about Thomas Piketty "For all the idea that we want to do the right thing and tell others, especially publicly, that we will do the right thing, humans are complicated, and solving problems by listening to what people say they want and then doing that doesn’t necessarily work. "Sometimes you have to nudge or trick or knead people into making it easier for people to do the right thing because we know we don’t necessarily do the right thing by ourselves. This doesn’t make us bad, it makes us human." "I [Levitt] went to the Harvard Society of Fellows, which is this incredibly snooty, academic club in Harvard where the only obligation for three years was to show up at dinner and drink really fancy wines with really smart people. The thing was, I didn’t really value the fancy wines and their nightly budget for my own wine was $80 and I wasn't getting paid very much. "They were very surprised when I asked if I could be the guy who ran one of the wine-tasting sessions. I went to the wine cellar and got two very expensive wines of the same grape and went to the liquor store and bought a $6.99 version of the same grape and then poured them into four decanters. We had a blind wine tasting with all the snooty wine experts. The $6.99 bottle did just fine. "The most interesting thing was when I asked them to tell me which varieties of wine had been most different, the most frequent combination was the same wine from two different decanters." Hay Festival in Pictures  FREE AppDownload
Defense capital goods orders climbed 39% in March, leading the headline reading higher. Computers shipments were also up double digits at 10%. Nondefense aircraft and parts orders fell most at -4.1%. "Moderate rates of business investment remain in place," Barclays said in a note. "Despite core orders and shipments coming in slightly better than our forecast, the April durable goods report left our GDP tracking estimates unchanged at 3.1% q/q (saar) for Q2 and -0.6% q/q (saar) for Q1." Here's the full rundown: Headline reading: 0.8% Consensus: -0.7% March revised: 3.6% Ex-transportation: 0.1% Consensus: 0.0% March revised: 2.9% Nondefense capital goods orders: -1.2% Consensus: -0.3% March revised: 4.7% Nondefense capital goods orders ex-aircraft: -0.4% Consensus: -0.2% March revised: 2.1% Here's the chart:  Reuters Full release » Full table:  Census   FREE AppDownload
AFPA house with solar panels on the roof in Grevenbroich near Aachen, western Germany. Klaus Meier lists three reasons for generating his own electricity in his family hotel in Germany's southern city of Freiburg -- "cost savings, energy efficiency, climate protection". Like a growing number of German small businesses, home-owners, schools, hospitals and industrial plants, Meier has opted for energy self-sufficiency. Of the about 600 terawatt hours Germany consumes each year, 50 TWh are self-produced -- about eight percent of the total -- in a trend that has seen solar panels installed on home roofs and gas plants set up in factories. In industry, the share is around 20 percent, according to business and energy consumers groups. Their main goal: cost savings. Home-made power in Germany, which has among Europe's highest electricity bills, is not taxed unlike conventional electricity where one third of the customer's bill goes into the public coffers. And neither are the do-it-yourselfers subject to the duties used to subsidise the country's wider "energy transition" away from fossil fuels and nuclear power and toward clean energy. Ten years ago Meier fitted his four-star hotel, the 45-room Park Hotel Post, set in a 19th century building, with a gas-fuelled power-and-heat cogeneration unit. It cost him nearly 50,000 euros ($68,000), but Meier said "the investment paid for itself even faster than I had expected". It's a trend adopted long ago by German big business, who value both the self-sufficiency and the lower cost. "If the power we produce ourselves in Ludwigshafen was taxed, it would cost half a million euros," said Kurt Bock, head of chemical giant BASF, which runs three gas power plants on its site in southwestern Germany. The automaker Daimler has invested over 40 million euros in a new gas turbine for its plant in Sindelfingen, its largest production site. The investment will allow it to increase its power output there by 44 percent. "This reduces our dependence on external suppliers and allows us to increase security of supply and predictability of our costs," plant manager Willi Reiss said last year. According to a survey of some 2,400 companies conducted last year by the German Chamber of Commerce, nearly half have either made, initiated or are planning measures to provide themselves with electricity. Besides the financial argument, security of supply is an oft-cited reason. Renewables such as wind and solar represent an ever increasing share of German electricity production, but the output is fickle, depending on weather conditions. Although the lights haven't gone out yet in Germany despite the most dire warnings, the grid is becoming less stable.   - 'Decentralisation' -   The "self-producers" are helping decentralise power production -- a key aspect of Germany's ambitious energy transition, which was accelerated with a decision to shutter nuclear plants after Japan's 2011 Fukushima disaster. On a much smaller scale, many families have placed solar panels on their roofs, especially in the country's more sun-blessed south. The share of self-generated electricity in households more than doubled between 2011 and 2012, although it still makes up for only half a percent of total domestic consumption. For the traditional power companies, they represent new competition but also offer them an opportunity "to become a service provider" by passing on advice and technical solutions, said Thomas Kusterer, chief financial officer of Germany's third biggest energy company, EnBW. Not everyone likes the trend of power-users going off the grid. "I understand those who do it, as long as the laws are as they are," said Hildegard Mueller of BDEW, the German Association of Energy and Water Industries, which represents producers' interests and calls for fewer incentives for self-production. But she said that self-producers "are detached from the community, leaving it to others to bear the costs of the energy transition". Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
When comparing airline fares make sure you consider all the extra fees.  Produced by Sara Silverstein. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
REUTERS/Thomas PeterAn aerial view shows decommissioned German-made Marder fighting vehicles in the compound of the Koch Battle Tank Dismantling firm in the eastern village of Rockensussra, some 300 km (186 miles) south west of Berlin, May 6, 2014. Good morning! Here's what you need to know. China Sinks Vietnamese Fishing Boat. Vietnamese and Chinese ships have been running into each other near a disputed oil rig ever since China towed a platform to the site earlier this month, BI's Michael Kelley notes. But it's the first time a ship has been sunk. France And The UK Rocked By Euroskepitcs. France's far-right National Front and the UK's Independence Party scored huge victories in this weekend's elections for seats in the European Parliament. Although centrist parties retained a comfortable majority in Belgium, the political establishment on both sides of the channel has basically received votes of no-confidence.  Pfizer Officially Drops AstraZeneca Bid. AstraZeneca had spurned the most recent off of $120 billion. But..."under U.K. takeover rules ... Pfizer could submit another offer for AstraZeneca in six months," WSJ says. Chicken Deal. Pilgrim's Pride is offering to buy Hillshire Brands for $45.00 per share in a deal worth $6.4 billion. CNBC's Dominic Chu observes Hillshire had recently cut its own deal to buy Pinnacle Foods for $4.3 billion. Lagarde Warns On Banks' 'Ransom'. IMF chief Christine Lagarde warned banks continue to practice a form of capitalism that is "more extractive than inclusive," the FT says. "The size and complexity of the megabanks meant that, in some ways, they could hold policymakers to ransom. The implicit subsidy they derived from being too-big-too-fail came from their ability to borrow more cheaply than smaller banks—magnifying risk and undercutting competition." New Emissions Regulations. Next week, the Obama administration will roll out a states-based cap-and-trade system. Key items energy companies will be watching for include "the percentage by which companies and states must reduce carbon emissions, which is expected to be proposed in a range instead of a single number," WSJ says. "The baseline year against which those reductions are calculated will also be closely monitored." Data: Non-Housing Categories. At 8:30 we get durable goods orders for April; expectations are for a slight retreat. At 9:45 we get PMI flash services for May, with a slight increase forecast. Conference board consumer confidence, coming in at 10, is also expected to have improved. Finally we get Richmond and Dallas Fed surveys at 10 and 10:30, respectively. Data: Housing Categories. At 9 we get the latest reading for FHFA home price index. Price growth is expected to have slowed a tick to 0.5% from 0.6%. Also at that hour we get the latest Case-Shiller reading, which is also expected to have slowed 0.1 ppts to 0.7%. Piketty. In an email to Business Insider, the French economist said he would soon respond to the FT's findings of discrepancies in his data in an update to "Capital in the 21st Century"'s online index. The FT, meanwhile, doubled down on their critique, finding in an editorial that "problems with Prof Piketty’s data undermines his thesis that capitalism has a natural tendency for wealth to become ever more concentrated in the hands of the rich." Markets. U.S. futures were higher. Stocks in Asia finished with mixed gains. Europe stocks were up.  FREE AppDownload
Pilgrim's PridePilgrim's Pride is offering to buy Hillshire Brands for $45.00 per share in a deal worth $6.4 billion. Hillshire closed at $37.02 on Friday. Pilgrim's produces and processes chicken for fast food chains like KFC, Burger King, Popeyes, and Chick-Fil-A. Consumers can also buy the chicken at retailers like Walmart, CostCo, and Kroger. Hillshire owns well-known brands like Jimmy Dean, Ball Park, and Sara Lee. "Our proposal creates considerable value for the shareholders of both Pilgrim's and Hillshire," said Pilgrim's CEO Bill Lovette. "For Hillshire shareholders, our proposal provides a substantial premium, greater certainty and immediate cash value for their shares. We have long respected the Hillshire business and we are confident that Hillshire's Board and shareholders will find our all-cash premium proposal to be superior to the pending acquisition of Pinnacle. For Pilgrim's, the addition of Hillshire's portfolio of iconic brands and broad based marketing, innovation and distribution expertise will enhance our position as a market leader. With our complementary products, we believe that together Pilgrim's and Hillshire will better serve our combined customer bases for the benefit of all our stakeholders. We look forward to working constructively with Hillshire to sign a definitive merger agreement and quickly realize the benefits of this combination." Here's a look at some of the label's that get slapped on Pilgrim's chicken. Pilgrim's PrideHere's a look at some of Hillshire's brands. Hillshire BrandsHere's the letter Pilgrim's Pride CEO William Lovette sent to Hillshire CEO Sean Connolly. Dear Sean, On behalf of Pilgrim's Pride Corporation ("PPC"), we are writing to convey our proposal to acquire The Hillshire Brands Company ("Hillshire" or the "Company"). As expressed during our meeting in Chicago on February 20, 2014 we have the utmost respect for Hillshire, its leadership and its employees, and, as you are well aware, it has long been our desire to acquire the Company. We also admire the role that Hillshire has played in the communities it serves, and we would maintain this tradition, making Chicago a major center of North American operations. Based on our extensive review of the Company, we are prepared to offer $45 per share in cash for all of the outstanding shares of Hillshire common stock. Our proposal values Hillshire at 12.5x its trailing twelve-month adjusted EBITDA as of March 29, 2014, including the $163 million termination fee payable to Pinnacle Foods Inc. ("Pinnacle"). We would assume such fee upon closing. Section 5.4 of your agreement with Pinnacle explicitly contemplates the Hillshire Board, in the exercise of its fiduciary duties, entering into negotiations and providing diligence if it receives a Superior Proposal, which is defined as a Takeover Proposal that is more favorable to Hillshire's stockholders from a financial point of view than the Pinnacle transaction. A sale of the Company at the price indicated above offers superior value and far greater certainty to Hillshire shareholders than the contemplated Pinnacle transaction.  We are coming forward now because the opportunity for your shareholders to obtain the compelling value represented by our proposal will no longer exist if the proposed acquisition of Pinnacle is consummated. Our offer is therefore conditioned on the termination of this transaction (and our proposed purchase price is not subject to reduction for any related termination fees). In light of the materiality of the proposed transaction and disclosure rules, we plan to announce our proposal publicly. We intend to finance this all-cash offer through PPC with existing liquidity and new third party financing. The PPC balance sheet as of March 30, 2014 reflected net financial debt of $155 million, including $552 million in cash and cash equivalents, which provides us with ample flexibility to effect an acquisition. Pro forma leverage for PPC would be approximately 4x consolidated 2014E EBITDA, well below the levels you have communicated for the Pinnacle transaction. Based on our strong relationships with all major financial institutions in the U.S. and globally, we expect to finalize binding debt financing commitments promptly. We have dedicated a full team to the evaluation of Hillshire, including both management and advisors, and have conducted a thorough review of the business and its operations based on publicly available information. In order to finalize our proposal, we would need to complete customary confirmatory due diligence based on non-public information, which we believe could be conducted in parallel with documentation of the transaction without disruption to your business. We have retained the services of Lazard as our financial advisor, and Cravath, Swaine &amp; Moore as our legal counsel, to assist us in consummating this transaction, and PPC has obtained all relevant internal approvals for the delivery of this proposal, including from our Board and our majority shareholder, JBS.  This preliminary proposal is a non-binding indication of interest, which remains subject to the negotiation, execution and delivery of mutually satisfactory definitive agreements, completion of confirmatory due diligence, approval of the transaction by your Board of Directors, receipt of customary approvals and the termination of Hillshire's merger agreement with Pinnacle. Nothing contained in this letter or any resulting communications shall create any legally binding agreements or obligations of any party referred to herein until definitive documentation setting forth such legally binding terms has been negotiated, executed and delivered by the parties.  It is our strong preference to reach a negotiated transaction. Working together, we anticipate being in a position to prepare and execute a definitive agreement within two weeks. In the meantime, we remain at your disposal to address any questions you may have. Yours sincerely, /s/ William W. Lovette President and Chief Executive Officer Pilgrim's Pride Corporation /s/ Wesley M. Batista President and Chief Executive Officer JBS S.A., Majority Shareholder in Pilgrim's Pride Corporation FREE AppDownload
Here is another great screenshot from JP Morgan, where it shows a big bias that even institutional investors have all over the world… JP Morgan FREE AppDownload
RNGS ReutersHONG KONG (Reuters) - A giant Chinese oil rig has finished its first round of drilling in South China Sea waters also claimed by Vietnam and moved to another site in the area, the rig's operator, China Oilfield Services Ltd (COSL), said on Tuesday. In a statement, COSL said exploration would still take place off the Xisha islands, China's name for the disputed Paracel chain, suggesting the rig was not moving far. In early May, the rig was deployed between the Paracel islands and the Vietnamese coast, sparking deadly anti-China riots in Vietnam and protests from the government in Hanoi. The rig had "smoothly" completed the first phase of its work said COSL, the oil service arm of state-run China National Offshore Oil Company (CNOOC) Group, which owns the $1 billion platform. COSL said it had obtained relevant geological data from the drilling, but did not give details or specify the current location of the rig. Neither officials from COSL nor CNOOC Group could be reached for comment. In line with previous statements, COSL said drilling was on track to be completed by mid-August. Vietnam has said the rig is in its 200-nautical mile exclusive economic zone and on its continental shelf. China - which claims almost the entire South China Sea - says the rig is operating within its waters. (Reporting by Charlie Zhu in HONG KONG, Fiona Li in BEIJING and Nguyen Phuong Linh in HANOI; Editing by Dean Yates) FREE AppDownload
NBC screencapEditor's note: The five steps are listed at the bottom of the post. I had an opportunity to ask Robin Dreeke a few questions. Robin is in charge of the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s elite Counterintelligence Behavioral Analysis Program and the author of "It’s Not All About Me." Robin combines science and years of work in the field to offer practical tips to build rapport and establish trust. In this brief interview he discusses building relationships, how to approach someone you don’t know and ask for a favor, and the keys to establishing trust. A lot of people are interested in strengthening and furthering relationships. How can people do this? This is the most important aspect of everything we do in life. I’m going to give some light science behind each of my answers but to me it just explains the subjective simple explanations behind naturally great trusting relationships. Both anecdotal (evidence) as well as science supports the fact that the greatest happiness is found in positive social interactions and relationships. The simplest answer to this is to “make it all about them.” Our brain rewards us chemically when we are able to talk and share our own views, priorities, and goals with others… long term, short term, etc. Our brain also rewards us when we are unconditionally accepted for who we are as a human being without judgement. Both of these concepts are genetically coded in each of us (to varying degrees) because of our ancient survival instincts (ego-centrism) as well as our need to belong to groups or a tribe (tribal mentality for survival and resources). When you put these simple concepts together the answer is simple to understand, but oftentimes difficult to execute…. Speak in terms of the other person’s interests and priorities and then validate them, their choices, and who they are non-judgmentally. Some people do this naturally, for the rest of us you can build this skill and it eventually becomes second nature. Trust is a foundation to most situations in life. How can we develop trust? What are the keys? I can only answer from my own background and experience because trust is a very difficult thing to measure and define and each individual’s definition can vary and our brain takes in much more than verbal information when determining trust. For me and what I teach I start with what I said in question one. Trust first starts with a relationship where the other person’s brain is rewarding them for the engagement with you by doing what I outlined above. Part two of my trust process is to understand the other person’s goals and keeping their goals and priorities on the top of my list of goals and priorities. By making the other person’s goals and priorities yours, trust will develop. Over time (some people faster than others) a need to reciprocate the kindness and relationship will build. In other words, trust is built faster and stronger when there is no personal agenda. What’s the best way to approach someone you don’t know and ask them for a favor? Using sympathy and seeking help is always the best. If you can wrap the help / favor you are looking for around a priority and interest of the individual you are engaging, the odds of success increase. Add social proof (i.e., others around you helping already or signed a petition etc.) and you increase it even more. Again, focus on how you can ask a favor while getting their brain to reward them for doing so. What are some strategies to build rapport while giving a talk, presentation, or interview? Ego Suspension / self-deprecating humor… Make it all about them! How is the information you are chatting about going to benefit them? Talk about the great strengths and skills they each have already and that all you hope to do is to have them understand their strengths even better and be able to pass them on to others more effectively if they want to. Validate every question and opinion non-judgmentally. If you don’t happen to agree, simply ask “that’s a fascinating / insightful/ thoughtful opinion… would you mind helping me understand how you came up with it?” Again, their brain will reward them on multiple levels for this. I suspect you spend a lot of time trying to figure out if people are manipulating you or the situation? Can you talk about this? How can you tell when people are attempting to manipulate you? I’ll start by saying I don’t like the word manipulate. The word tends to objectify people and removes the human being from the equation. When people feel they are objects, trust will not be built. I tend to not think of anyone trying to manipulate me but at times a very self-serving agenda becomes evident. This is what manipulation generally is…. a self-serving agenda where the other person feels used with no reciprocity. When I notice that there may be an overabundance of a self-serving agenda (manipulation) I don’t judge the person negatively. I try to explore two areas in order to understand them better. (go back to my first answers here… this process begins to build a relationship and trust :)) I try to understand what their objective is and why that is their objective. What are they trying to achieve, etc. I will also attempt to understand why they felt a certain way of communicating with me would be effective for them in the situation. I tend to ask questions to help them think about how they might be more successful in their objectives using other methods… such as I outlined above. In other words, help them achieve whatever objective with me they had…. because wasn’t that their goal after all? :) See… keep it always coming back to them. If you had to give a crash course in building a relationship with someone, what are the top 5 things people need to do? What carries the bulk of the freight so-to-speak? 1) Learn… about their priorities, goals, and objectives.2) Place… theirs ahead of yours3) Allow them to talk…. suspend your own need to talk.4) Seek their thoughts and opinions.5) Ego suspension!!! Validate them unconditionally and non-judgmentally for who they are as a human being. If you haven’t already, check out Robin’s Ten Techniques for Building Quick Rapport With Anyone.   FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe logo of AstraZeneca is seen on medication packages in a pharmacy in LondonLLONDON (Reuters) - Shares in AstraZeneca &lt;AZN.L&gt; fell 2.3 percent on Tuesday after U.S. drugmaker Pfizer &lt;PFE.N&gt; said it would not make a formal bid to acquire its smaller British rival.  Pfizer's decision - announced on Monday during a public holiday - had been widely expected after a rejection by AstraZeneca's board of its final offer of 55 pounds a share. Under British takeover rules, AstraZeneca could reach out to Pfizer in three months and Pfizer could take another run at its smaller British rival in six months' time, whether it is invited back or not. But an immediate deal is off the agenda. Pfizer's final offer was at a price that many analysts and investors had previously suggested would bring AstraZeneca to the table for serious negotiations.     But in rejecting an earlier offer of 53.50 pounds as undervaluing the company, the British group indicated that it needed a bid more than 10 percent higher, or at least 58.85 pounds per share, for its board to consider a recommendation. Pfizer had urged AstraZeneca shareholders to agitate for engagement and several expressed disappointment at its intransigence, though others - encouraged by AstraZeneca's promising drug pipeline - backed the standalone strategy. The shares fell back to 42.29 pounds by 0820 GMT (4.20 a.m. EDT), still a premium to the undisturbed price of 37.82 pounds before Pfizer's bid interest was first reported in mid-April.  Several brokerages, including Societe Generale, Panmure Gordon and Kepler Cheuvreux, cut their recommendations or price targets for AstraZeneca after Pfizer's decision to abandon its attempt to buy the British company. SocGen analyst Stephen McGarry, who downgraded the stock to "sell" from "hold" and set a price target of 36 pounds a share, said the onus was now on AstraZeneca to deliver on its bullish forecasts for sales to grow 75 percent to $45 billion by 2023. Now that the Pfizer bid has gone, AstraZeneca will need to deliver on its aggressive 2023 targets, he said in a note, adding that SocGen believes the targets are likely to be "unattainable without AstraZeneca adding to its revenue and profit stream via M&amp;A activity". FREE AppDownload
Wanna get a sense of what's going with China and its neighbors? Hint: It's not good. The FT's Denise Law posted this screenshot from an FT email news update, giving the latest on China. There seems to be a pattern. Denise Law, FT FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersBank of Japan (BOJ) Governor Haruhiko Kuroda attends a news conference at the BOJ headquarters in TokyoTOKYO (Reuters) - The Bank of Japan has begun shifting its focus from supporting growth to ways of phasing out its massive stimulus, taking first tentative steps towards a potentially momentous move for the world economy. Current and former central bankers familiar with internal discussions say an informal debate is under way on how to prepare for an exit from the BOJ's 13-month-old "quantitative and qualitative monetary easing." The stimulus is a centerpiece of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's campaign to end two decades of deflation and fitful growth, and BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda has vowed to keep cheap cash flowing until his 2 percent inflation target is in plain sight. But with inflation now past the half-way mark and signs that the economy has weathered last month's sales tax increase, Japanese central bankers are already thinking about the next chapter. First of all, Kuroda and his team are keen to avoid market confusion and volatility that the U.S. Federal Reserve triggered in May 2013 when it first signaled the possible "tapering" of its extraordinary stimulus. With the BOJ churning out 60-70 trillion yen per year($589-687 billion), withdrawal symptoms could be similarly acute and the lesson for the BOJ is that signaling a tapering too soon or being too specific could backfire. With that in mind, the BOJ has no plans to trim the stimulus or publicly suggest the eventual drawdown any time soon, say those familiar with the internal debate. But whereas weeks or months ago that debate would center on the potential need for more easing, now there is a strong sense within the BOJ board that the stimulus so far has worked well and the next step, albeit distant, could be policy tightening, not further easing. Deputy Governor Kikuo Iwata underscored that shift, reminding markets that the 2 percent inflation goal worked both ways. "The BOJ's current policy intends to prevent not just deflation but inflation from well exceeding 2 percent, such as to 4 percent or 5 percent, for a medium- to long-term period," Iwata told a seminar on Monday. Hideo Hayakawa, a former top BOJ economist who maintains close contacts with those inside, says the central bank needs to clarify what will it do after the battle with deflation is won. "If 2 percent inflation comes into sight, the BOJ should taper its asset purchases," Hayakawa, a senior executive fellow at private think-tank Fujitsu Research Institute, told a Reuters Investment Summit last week. In public, Kuroda has become more vocal about the need for government structural reforms, which shows he wants the BOJ to shift from boosting economic demand to playing a supporting role as Abe promises deregulation to boost Japan's growth potential.   MIXED VIEWS Keen to shore up public confidence in the BOJ's inflation goal, Kuroda regularly brushes off questions about an exit strategy saying the focus should remain on battling deflation. There is no hard deadline for curtailing asset purchases and Kuroda keeps reminding investors that the BOJ will not hesitate to ease further if economic recovery appears at risk. But central bankers are now expressing more confidence in their policy and if the economy keeps improving the debate will intensify about how long the BOJ should maintain its stimulus after it reaches the two-year mark in April 2015. Right now, there is no agreement yet among the nine policy board members on that. Some, including Kuroda and former International Monetary Fund economist Sayuri Shirai, stress the "open-ended" nature of the policy. They argue the BOJ can keep buying government bonds and other assets until there is convincing evidence that 2 percent inflation will be sustained, say people familiar with the internal debate. Former market economist Takahide Kiuchi, however, wants the current framework to be reviewed next April because he fears loading up on too much debt will make an exit difficult. Since the launch of its extraordinary asset-buying scheme in April 2013, the BOJ has been scooping up about 70 percent of newly issued government debt, including nearly all new 10-year benchmark bonds sold by the government. Public remarks and private conversations with some of the central bankers suggest the rest of the board, including two former business executives, stands somewhere in between. According to central bank insiders, at least two policymakers believe the BOJ should stay "ahead of the curve" and seek the exit once there are early signs that inflation is approaching 2 percent. Such debate may have been academic when inflation was well below 2 percent, but will matter more if prices near the target. "Bond market players don't want to think about an exit and don't see any need to think about it yet," said Noriatsu Tanji, bond strategist at Barclays Securities Japan, explaining why yields have stayed low despite an improving economy. "But things may change if consumer inflation exceeds 1.5 percent around autumn of this year," he said. That will prompt investors to price in the chance of a future tapering.   CHANGE OF HEART The key concern, for now, is to prevent premature expectations of tapering from disrupting the bond market, where the government continues to pay 0.6 percent interest on 10-year bonds despite its heaviest debt load in the industrial world. BOJ officials do not want to discuss how long the stimulus may last and what might trigger its withdrawal, which in part reflects considerable differences within the BOJ on how to communicate its plans. Some say the BOJ should clarify the conditions under which tapering might start, possibly in October when it updates its twice-yearly economic projections. "The BOJ may need to change its message to markets at some point later this year," said a person familiar with the bank's thinking. "The key is to avoid a spike in bond yields." Others worry that even mentioning a possibility of an exit could jolt markets. Yet the very fact such discussions are taking place marks a change for the BOJ and Kuroda, whose prime concern has long been that the stimulus could be scaled back prematurely. Last month, he surprised markets by saying the BOJ's massive easing has boosted demand enough to essentially eliminate any slack in Japan's economy. At a news conference last week followed by interviews with two major business newspapers, Kuroda went further, stressing that demand has been revived enough and it was now up to the government to remove supply bottlenecks by bringing more women into the workforce and making it easier to start new businesses. Some academics argue the BOJ is too coy about tapering and should start talking about it now rather than wait until markets start fretting about a possible exit. "They should be talking about tapering at a minimum, and they should begin preparing financial markets for a regime after 2 percent, a shift from stimulating aggregate demand to stimulating aggregate supply," Harvard economist Dale W. Jorgenson told the Reuters Summit. "It's not too soon to begin managing expectations of changes that will take place within next 12 months." ($1 = 101.8250 Japanese Yen)   (Editing by Tomasz Janowski) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Remo CasilliItaly's Prime Minister Matteo Renzi gestures during a media conference at Chigi palace in Rome, May 26, 2014.Good morning! Things get back in full swing today, as the US comes off of its Memorial Day holiday. Essentially the scene is this: European markets gained yesterday, but are now slightly down. US futures are playing catch up and are higher. The biggest developments since last Friday was the European Parliamentary election, which was characterized by the rise of right-wing, anti-EU parties in several countries. However, markets paid just as much attention to the fact that in Italy and Greece, establishment parties performed solidly (especially Italy) and that helped give markets a boost. Meanwhile, stories about Chinese tension in Asia are running rampant — the latest event being the downing of a Vietnamese shipping vessel at the hands of a Chinese boat. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA Shanghai Gold Exchange employee stands beside gold bars displayed at the China International Exhibition on Financial Banking Technology & Equipment in BeijingSINGAPORE (Reuters) - China has approached foreign banks and gold producers to participate in a global gold exchange in Shanghai, people familiar with the matter said, as the world's top producer and importer of the metal seeks greater influence over pricing. The Shanghai Gold Exchange (SGE) got the go ahead from the central bank last week to launch a global trading platform in the city's pilot free trade zone, a move that could challenge the dominance of New York and London in gold trade and pricing. Beijing's plans to open up gold trading comes at a time when the benchmark price-setting process for precious metals is under scrutiny. Barclays Plc became the first bank to be fined over attempted manipulation of the 95-year-old benchmark London gold market daily "fix" last week. State-backed SGE has asked bullion banks such as HSBC, Australia and New Zealand Banking Group, Standard Bank, Standard Chartered and Bank of Nova Scotia to take part in the global trading platform, two people approached by the exchange said. SGE, the world's biggest physical gold exchange, where domestic banks, miners and retailers buy and sell gold, could also open up the international platform to foreign brokerages and gold producers, they said. "China wants to have more voice in gold prices," said Jiang Shu, an analyst with Industrial Bank, one of 12 banks allowed to import gold into China. "The international exchange is the first step towards gaining a say in gold pricing." "If you don't allow foreign players to participate in your market actively, or do not push Chinese financial institutions to participate in the international market, then China's strong gold demand is only a number, not a power," he said. HSBC and Standard Bank declined to comment, while the other banks and SGE were not immediately available for comment. The global platform will first host spot physical contracts for gold and other precious metals, before aiming to launch derivatives down the line, said a third source who is directly involved in the launch of the international exchange. "We are not just encouraging foreign banks but also producers and other entities," added the source. China, the world's biggest buyer of raw materials from copper to coal, is pushing hard to establish pricing benchmarks for a number of commodities. Gold, along with oil, could be among the first to be opened up to foreign players. The free trade zone in Shanghai is set to see international energy trading by hosting the country's first crude oil futures. The Shanghai exchange is looking to launch three yuan-denominated physical gold contracts, of 100 grams, 1 kg and the bigger London good delivery bar weighing 12.5 kg, said another source who has received a draft prospectus from SGE. Contract specifications for silver, platinum and palladium were also being discussed, though the sources said specifications and participants had not yet been finalized. The exchange is expected to be launched by the fourth quarter. Even if China lures foreign players, the exchange would still need to see full convertibility of the yuan and enough liquidity on the exchange before it can be considered to operate on a par with other hubs. Currently, the London gold "fix" is the benchmark for spot prices, while New York's COMEX contract sets the futures' benchmark. SGE prices are tracked to gauge Chinese demand as reflected in premiums or discounts to spot rates. Earlier this year, China's ICBC - in conjunction with its acquisition target Standard Bank - indicated interest in buying Deutsche Bank's seat on the London gold fix but it is not interested anymore, sources previously told Reuters. While physical demand has always provided underlying support to gold prices, speculative trade is what largely drives prices. With China's push for an international physical exchange, physical demand could begin to have a stronger influence. China overtook India last year as the world's biggest gold importer and gold jewelry and investment demand was up about a third to a record 1,065.8 tonnes in 2013. The influx of gold has made SGE the biggest physical exchange, with a turnover of 10,000 tonnes for its immediate and deferred delivery contracts, according to Thomson Reuters GFMS. The Shanghai Futures Exchange has the world's second-most traded gold futures contract, though trading is largely limited to the domestic market with volumes of about 41,176 tonnes last year, still well behind COMEX's 147,083 tonnes. The SGE's international board and the main exchange could eventually be merged when the yuan is fully convertible, Albert Cheng, managing director of the World Gold Council's far east region, said. "That would become a very important exchange in the world, and Shanghai will truly become one of the three international gold centers after New York and London," he said. "No doubt, the participation in the international market is the key effort of the SGE and the current administration."   (Editing by Ed Davies) FREE AppDownload
