Thomson ReutersCalpers mission statement is seen posted on the wall in the regional office in Sacramento.(Reuters) - A federal grand jury indicted on Thursday a former Calpers board member on charges of bribing a chief executive of the California public pension fund and faking documents to gain million of dollars in investments fees. U.S. Attorney Melinda Haag announced that Alfred J. Villalobos, a former member of the board of the California Public Employee Retirement System who later worked as a placement agent, engaged in a conspiracy to commit corruption, defraud the United States, conceal materials, and conspire to commit mail and wire fraud. Villalobos was a member of Calpers board from 1993 to 1995 and later founded a placement agency called ARVCO Capital Research LLC that solicited investments by public pension funds in private equity funds, according to court documents. Thursday's indictment was a revision from one originally filed in March 2013, when Villalobos was charged, along with former Calpers Chief Executive Fred Buenrostro, in connection with a scheme involving a $3 billion Calpers investment in funds managed by Apollo Global Management, a New York-based private equity firm. Calpers is the largest U.S. public pension fund Villalobos was the placement agent who orchestrated the transaction between Apollo and Calpers, according to a statement released by the U.S. attorney for the Northern District of California. Prosecutors allege that in 2007, Villalobos and Buenrostro created a series of fraudulent investor disclosure letters, for which Villalobos's firm earned $14 million in fees. Villalobos and Buenrostro then proceeded to misrepresent and conceal information from the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, the U.S. Postal Inspection Service and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the documents said. The attorney for Villalobos, Bruce Funk, could not immediately be reached for comment after hours on Thursday. In July, Buenrostro pleaded guilty to a single count of conspiracy and agreed to cooperate in future investigations. In his plea, Buenrostro admitted he had accepted gifts, travel and other benefits from Villalobos in exchange for using Calpers investments, including cash bribes that eventually totaled approximately $200,000 and were delivered to him at a downtown Sacramento hotel in paper bags and a shoe box. Villalobos hosted Buenrostro's wedding at his home in Nevada, flew the Calpers chief to Dubai, Hong Kong and Macau, and provided valuable casino chips to now-former Calpers board members, Buenrostro stated in the plea agreement.     (Reporting by Robin Respaut; Editing by Leslie Adler) FREE AppDownload
Amazon.comIf you're looking for something to read that will improve your ability as an investor, I'd recommend any of these books. All 12 of them are deeply informative and will leave an impact on you. Keep in mind that if investing were as easy as buying a book and reading it, we'd all be rich.           FREE AppDownload
Warren Buffett likes to counsel individual investors to buy-and-hold (specifically, buy an equity index fund and hold it forever). This is a perfect example of “do as I say, not as I do,” as Buffett has successfully timed the market for decades. And with Berkshire Hathaway reporting earnings last week it was revealed that Buffett is now carrying his largest cash position ever (in stark contrast to individual investors who now hold their smallest cash positions since the height of the internet bubble). Clearly, he’s timing once again and I’m sure a few of you are wondering just how he manages to do this so successfully. A couple of days ago I wrote “Don’t Buy The Buy-And-Hold Line of BS” arguing that valuations matter and when stocks offer literally zero return over the coming decade it’s probably not a bad idea to own something else (like bonds). Well, this really gets at the heart of Buffett’s investment philosophy: The investment shown by the discounted-flows-of-cash calculation to be the cheapest is the one that the investor should purchase…  Moreover, though the value equation has usually shown equities to be cheaper than bonds, that result is not inevitable:  When bonds are calculated to be the more attractive investment, they should be bought. -Warren Buffett, 1992 Berkshire Hathaway Chairman’s Letter In other words, ‘when stocks are better value buy them. When bonds are the better value buy them.’ Couldn’t be simpler; could it? But how does Buffett calculate “value?” In the quote above he references “discounted-flows-of-cash,” a very complicated valuation model that relies on many assumptions that can cause all sorts of problems. I think there’s actually a much easier way to look at it. Back in 1999, when he decided to market-time the internet bubble (well done, sir), Buffett hinted at his process telling Fortune, “I think it’s very hard to come up with a persuasive case that equities will over the next 17 years perform anything like–anything like–they’ve performed in the past 17.” So what tool does he use to make a “persuasive case?” A couple years later, once again via Fortune, he revealed it: the ratio of total stock market capitalization-to-GNP (or GDP), calling it, “probably the best single measure of where valuations stand at any given moment.” Okay, but HOW does he use it? Here’s my best guess: John Hussman has done some work with this indicator and found that it is very closely correlated to future returns in the stock market. In other words, this indicator is very good a predicting future returns for stocks over the coming decade. When Buffett said in 1999 that the next 17 years were very unlikely to look like the prior 17, he meant that the starting valuation in 1982 was so attractive (based on his favorite yardstick, market cap-to-GDP, which stood at 0.333) it virtually guaranteed wonderful returns over the coming decade. Conversely, the starting valuation in 1999 was so unattractive (based on the same yardstick reading of 1.536, or 4.5 times higher than the 1982 reading) it virtually guaranteed horrible returns. So I believe Buffett very clearly understands the predictive ability of his favorite yardstick. And he uses it to time the market by comparing future stock returns to future bond returns, as he said in the quote from the 1992 letter above. Stay with me here. I ran the numbers on Buffett’s yardstick and its predictive ability myself, using the data from FRED and Robert Shiller covering the years from 1950 to 2013, and found it to be negatively correlated (low values correlate with better 10-year returns and vice versa) by over 80%. I then created a forecasting model based on the data. This tells us what stock market future annualized returns should be over the coming decade based upon the current reading of the yardstick. We can then take this number and simply compare it to the current yield on the 10-year Treasury note to see which offers the best return over the coming decade, just as Buffett prescribes. When stocks offer a better return, they should be bought. Conversely, when the 10-year treasury offers a better return it should be bought. Simple. As Buffett says, most of the time stocks are more attractive – but not always:  So I went back and looked at what would have happened if someone had followed this model, only looking at it once a year at year-end, starting back in 1950. (I know this is cheating; our investor obviously didn’t have access to all of this then future data back in 1950. Still, it’s a fun exercise so get over yourself.) They would have been fully invested in stocks from 1950 to 1981 at which point they would have switched into treasuries for only a year. They would have owned stocks again from that point until 1996 when bonds offered the greater prospective return. They would have stayed out of stocks for nearly the next decade (through the rise and fall of the internet bubble) and only sold their bonds in January 2003 when they would have bought stocks again. But they only owned stocks for two years before switching into bonds again in 2005. They didn’t buy stocks again until January 2009, after the heart of the financial crisis had already passed and stocks were once again attractively valued relative to bonds. Once again they sold their stocks and bought treasuries at the end of 2012 and still hold those treasuries today. And how did she do? Even after missing the massive gains of the internet bubble and those we saw in stocks last year, this hypothetical Warren Buffett-wannabe-market-timer, was way ahead of the game. Her $1,000 grew to roughly $1.15 million today compared to $720k for the buy-and-hold investor and a mere $32k for the all-bonds guy. And all she did was buy stocks when they were more attractive; otherwise she bought bonds. Simple.  Now this model is merely for educational purposes. It doesn’t factor in transaction costs or taxes (which could be huge) so it’s not in any way a recommendation for you to use with your investments. But it’s definitely something to consider when evaluating investment opportunities on a broad basis or deciding where to put new money to work. I’ll soon put up a page on this site that regularly updates Buffett’s favorite yardstick and compares its prospective return to the yield on the 10-year treasury so we can keep tabs on it. Stay tuned. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidThe recent selloff in U.S. stocks is healthy and could set markets up to reach new highs by year end. Long- term investors should not fall victim to panic and sell. An exasperated President Harry Truman once said, “Give me a one-handed economist! All my economists say, ‘on the one hand…on the other.’” Financial markets today probably have a lot of investors wishing for one-handed guidance from a trusted source. I am sensitive to this since I recently predicted a pullback in U.S. equities while also asserting that the bull market could go on for some time. I am known for my strong (sometimes even unpopular) views, so people might think I am talking out of both sides of my mouth when I say U.S. equities could correct further and U.S. equities are fairly priced and could move higher. As I wrote earlier in the summer, we are nearing the speculative phase of this bull market. At such times, it is very hard to make blanket statements about being bullish or bearish. Decisions are nuanced and depend on whether you are a speculator or an investor. Fundamentally, a speculator invests thinking things will be more expensive tomorrow and an investor buys assets he or she expects will provide exceptional long-run returns. Do I think U.S. stocks will be higher or lower at the end of the year? The short answer is I think the likelihood is stocks will reach new highs by year end. This little flush over the past week is healthy and should set us up for a nice recovery. Indeed, the chart below suggests the consolidation was overdue. My advice to long-term investors is that this is not the time to fall victim to panic and sell. While market swoons such as last week’s are unsettling, it is worth remembering that while the Dow Jones Industrial Average dropped 22.6 percent on October 19, 1987, stocks ended that year slightly higher than where they were at the start of the year. In the end, “Black Monday” was just a temporary blip in the great bull run of the 1980s. While volatility is likely to increase in the near term, the fundamentals offer comfort; the equity risk premium now sits at 5.4 percent, above the long-term average of 2.8 percent, suggesting equities are offering a reasonable return for risk. And the S&amp;P 500 Index’s price-earnings multiple of 17.3 times also seems fair given low inflation levels. If you are an investor, avoid the temptation to be short-term focused. I am reminded of the wise words of my friend Daniel Kahneman, a pioneer in behavioral finance who won the Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences in 2002 for research on decision making. He tells us how frequently we react to market moves is a key factor in how our fortunes fare. “All of us would be better investors if we just made fewer decisions,” says Kahneman. In the case of today’s market, this is good, one-handed advice for investors. Chart of the Week Hand-wringing over a lasting U.S. equity market correction is rife, but our historical analysis indicates that current market volatility may be just a passing storm. Equity market consolidations of the magnitude we are experiencing are commonplace in bull markets, occurring every 61 trading days on average. The last downturn occurred in April, so the market was due for a drop. However, after a healthy selloff, we expect stocks to reach new highs by year end. Guggenheim Partners FREE AppDownload
The Truman ShowTell a lie often enough and people start to believe it. For several years, media headlines have been filled with references to a “deleveraging,” or a reduction in the level of U.S. debt. The narrative goes as follows: The U.S. was driven into recession by a housing bubble, fueled by excess debt. But over the past six years, the economy has been slowly but steadily reducing the debt burden. And like all myths, there is a kernel of truth. The U.S. financial system has indeed made significant strides in reducing leverage and U.S. banks are better capitalized. But as for the broader economy, the unpleasant fact is there has been no deleveraging, as I’ve mentioned before. In fact, as revealed most recently in the latest revised gross domestic product figures (GDP), we’ve generally seen quite the opposite. Consider the following three points: The net result is that during the period of so-called “deleveraging,” non-financial debt has increased by roughly $9 trillion. Even after normalizing for GDP, non-financial debt has actually risen significantly since the financial crisis. Six years ago, non-financial debt was around 227% of GDP. Today, it’s at a record 250%, as the figure below shows.  Source Bloomberg 8/4/14 This leaves the question: Does rising non-financial debt matter for the economy and for investors? The short answer is yes, although probably not in the short term. However, over the longer term, a high and growing debt burden has several implications for the U.S. economy: slower growth, a persistent headwind for consumers and vulnerability to even a modest rise in interest rates (this is particularly true for the federal government, where an improving fiscal picture has been flattered by artificially low rates). In fact, the rising U.S. debt burden is one of the reasons why I continue to advise caution toward consumer sectors as well as why I have more modest expectations for long-term U.S. stock returns. At a time when U.S. households are older and still struggling with slow wage growth, it would have been better had the country experienced a real deleveraging, rather than a cosmetic one. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe logo of GlaxoSmithKline is seen on its office building in ShanghaiSHANGHAI (Reuters) - A British investigator and his American wife will stand trial in Shanghai on Friday in a case that is seen as key to a bribery investigation against GlaxoSmithKline Plc &lt;gsk.l&gt; and has unnerved the growing community of corporate sleuths in China. Peter Humphrey and his colleague and wife Yu Yingzeng, who were detained over a year ago following work they did for the British pharmaceutical giant, face charges of illegally obtaining private information on Chinese citizens, for which they can receive a maximum sentence of up to three years imprisonment. Their arrest sent shivers through the country's risk consultancy community, whose members are much in demand by multinationals and foreign investors for information on potential partners or firms in China, where such data is not easily available. "In the past, people were almost encouraged to turn a blind eye to where the due diligence companies or investigators were getting their information," said Pooja Nair, a Los Angeles-based associate at law firm Foley &amp; Lardner. "(This case) makes it clear that in order to get information you're taking a huge risk in China." The court case, which also coincides with a growing number of Chinese anti-trust probes that have seen authorities raid offices of Western firms, highlights the obstacles foreign companies face in navigating China's murky business world. Foreign investors in China now have to adhere to more rigorous anti-corruption laws in the West even as information about their prospective Chinese investments becomes harder to obtain. ChinaWhys, the risk consultancy the couple ran, was part of the corporate investigations industry in China which has seen a surge in demand amid more stringent enforcement of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and an increase in the number of Chinese firms involved in overseas deals. The couple's arrest last year coincided with a Chinese probe into allegations that GSK staff had funneled hundreds of millions of pounds through travel agencies to bribe local doctors and health officials to boost sales and raise prices. While Chinese authorities have not openly connected the arrests of the Humphreys to the GSK probe, Peter Humphrey said in a note last year when he was already in detention that he felt "cheated" by GSK, adding that the drugmaker had not shared the full details of the bribery allegations. A GSK spokesman declined to comment on the trial. The drug maker said in July that the issues relating to its China business were "very difficult and complicated." Peter Humphrey, who has apologized on state television for breaking any Chinese law, is expected to plead guilty. He worked for Reuters as a journalist in the 1980s and 1990s. China has in recent years moved to tighten its privacy laws. In 2009, it amended its criminal code to ban the transfer, sale or gathering of Chinese citizens' information by government firms and companies involved in telecoms, transportation, education and medical treatment. "Even before the investigation there had already been a shift in the industry to focus entirely on public information, to make everything legitimate...I think the Humphrey investigation pushed the transition a little faster," said a Shanghai-based investigator at a foreign-owned research firm.   (Additional Reporting by Engen Tham; Editing by Kazunori Takada and Raju Gopalakrishnan) FREE AppDownload
High yield bond funds have posted $7.1 billion in outflows according to Lipper data, the largest outflows on record. There's already been a huge rush of money from high-yield bond funds in recent weeks, as the "reach for yield" trade that has dominated the market for years shows signs of unwinding. With concerns about the Fed perhaps warming up the first rate increase, the appeal of risky yield plays seems to be diminishing.  "Recent underperformance of US high yield credit has put back to the forefront of the market the vulnerability of this asset class to rising US yields, and to the coming tightening cycle in the US," Societe Generale's Ahmed Behdenna said in a recent note. "Market reaction to recent US positive economic newsflow reminds us that the Fed tightening (which will come one day!) means lower expected returns for the asset class." Here's SocGen's chart: Societe Generale  Meanwhile, U.S. based money market funds attracted $7.8 billion inflows, the first inflows in four weeks. The flows also reflect the uncertain trading environment as the Fed's massive market footprint is slowly reduced. Jim Swanson of MFS Investment Management recently told the Wall Street Journal's Katy Burne that he was seeking extra yield on some bonds because selling them could now be difficult. "There's a question of what happens when everyone tries to sell [bonds] at once, and I want compensation for that,"  he said.  Burne reported U.S. funds investing in junk bonds just saw their second-worst monthly performance since November 2011, losing an average of 1.33% in July. "Everyone is hoping to be first through the exit," Matt King, global head of credit strategy at Citigroup Inc.in London told Burne. "By definition, that's not possible." FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersMan sits in front of the headquarters of the People's Bank of China, the central bank, in BeijingSHANGHAI (Reuters) - Chinese banks are scrambling to get on top of bad debts they have downplayed for years, cutting off riskier borrowers, further tightening lending terms and, in one case, deploying teams of investigators to assess the risk of loan defaults. China's banks keep reporting bad loan levels well below what most analysts consider realistic, but their recent actions suggest the slowing economy may be squeezing borrowers and lenders harder than thought only a few months ago. China's fifth-largest lender, Bank of Communications &lt;601328.SS&gt; &lt;3328.HK&gt;, assembled research teams last month to look over the assets of troubled borrowers in Zhejiang province, according to bank sources and an internal document. The province is a hotbed of China's credit stress. BoCom denied that special teams had been set up or that there was any surge in potential bad loans in an email to Reuters. The bank said it had always placed great importance in its risk control efforts. Bankers from other major listed lenders said they were further cutting lending to riskier borrowers, in particular smaller private companies. "We're lending almost exclusively to state-owned enterprises in our department at the moment, because it's just seen as the least risky," said a senior loan officer at the Bank of China Ltd &lt;601988.SS&gt; &lt;3988.HK&gt;. The banker, who would not be named because he is not authorised to speak to the media, added that the bank had also raised the bar for state-owned firms, in particular by demanding more collateral. Bank of China could not be reached for comment on changes to its lending practices. Lawyers for banks say increasing numbers of transactions fall through because of lenders' last-minute risk worries. A senior lawyer, who works for Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Ltd (ICBC) &lt;601398.SS&gt;&lt;1398.HK&gt; among others, said only a third of the financing deals she had been asked to work on were actually completed this year. This compares to 70 percent in the last two years, she said. The lawyer declined to be named because she is not authorised to speak to the media. An ICBC spokesman said the bank had not changed its approach to risk and the value of its non-performing loans was low. In March, Reuters reported that Chinese banks had become unsettled by some highly publicized defaults and were toughening terms for highly indebted borrowers or those plagued by overcapacity. Now it appears that banks are moving one step further, effectively cutting off many private firms from financing. Regulators may welcome signs that banks have become more diligent in assessing risk, but it is bad news for policymakers and China's near-term economic prospects. Beijing has been counting on consumption and a services sector dominated by private firms to take up the slack as it aims to cut industrial overcapacity and China's over-reliance on large state-financed investment projects. While manufacturing and exports have been improving in recent months, a surprisingly weak service sector survey this week cast doubt on market assumptions that the world's second-largest economy would stabilize this year around Beijing's 7.5 percent growth target.   WRONG RATIOS The average bad-loan ratio for Chinese commercial banks reached a three-year high of 1.08 percent at the end of June, above the regulator's 1 percent red line, but still below most analysts' estimates which range as high as 5 percent. Bankers and analysts expect bad debts to rise further as the slowing economy makes it harder to repay loans taken out during the Beijing-orchestrated lending binge to soften the impact of the global financial crisis and there are signs this rise could be faster than banks may have anticipated only a few months ago. Chinese firms remain under intense credit pressure, with strong demand for short-term debt, including high-yielding shadow banking instruments like bankers acceptance notes.   ASSESSING THE DAMAGE Sources told Reuters BoCom's management had grown increasingly concerned about a potential surge in bad loans in some regions in mid-July. In response, it set up teams to assess the situation in Zhejiang, Shandong, Fujian, Hubei and Guangdong provinces, according to two people with direct knowledge of the matter and an internal document reviewed by Reuters. Each team was assigned different tasks, such as checking borrowers' assets, data collection and drafting tailor-made recovery plans for troubled borrowers, the document showed. Increased attention to bad debts and loan recovery should ensure banks maximize the value of their loan books. They have been selling off bad debts cheaply but major lenders now want to recover as many of them as possible. "I think it is a good thing," said Chen Xingyu, a banking analyst from Phillip Securities in Hong Kong. "It'll help clarify the situation, so they can take appropriate action."   (Additional reporting by Shanghai Newsroom; Editing by Pete Sweeney and Tomasz Janowski) FREE AppDownload
TekmiraRNA interferenceIndividuals infected with the Ebola virus might be able to get access to TKM-Ebola, a drug that's been held up in Phase I clinical trials by the FDA. Shares of Tekmira Pharmaceuticals, the company behind the drug, were halted at around 4:00 p.m. ET. Here's what management is said in its 4:45 p.m. ET press release: "[Tekmira] today announced that the U.S. Food &amp; Drug Administration (FDA) has verbally confirmed they have modified the full clinical hold placed on the TKM-Ebola Investigational New Drug Application (IND) to a partial clinical hold. This action enables the potential use of TKM-Ebola in individuals infected with Ebola virus." "We are pleased that the FDA has considered the risk-reward of TKM-Ebola for infected patients," said Tekmira CEO Mark Murray. "We have been closely watching the Ebola virus outbreak and its consequences, and we are willing to assist with any responsible use of TKM-Ebola. The foresight shown by the FDA removes one potential roadblock to doing so." The $300 million biotech firm has received lots of attention as the deadly virus ravages people in West Africa. REUTERS/Ben NelmsTekmira Pharmaceuticals Corporation's head office is pictured in Burnaby, British Columbia."Earlier this month, the [U.S. Food and Drug Administration] put a hold on a Tekmira Pharmaceuticals Corp clinical trial of TKM-Ebola, one of the few Ebola treatments advanced enough to be tested in people," reported Reuters' Julie Steenhuysen. Steenhuysen spoke with a University of Texas doctor who said that it "works great in monkeys in the lab." The stock has been trading in a wide range in recent weeks, swinging between $5.08 and $31.48 in the past year. Shares closed at $14.23, up 6.5% for the day. Here's the full press release: VANCOUVER, British Columbia, Aug. 7, 2014 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Tekmira Pharmaceuticals Corporation (Nasdaq:TKMR) (TSX:TKM), a leading developer of RNA interference (RNAi) therapeutics, today announced that the U.S. Food &amp; Drug Administration (FDA) has verbally confirmed they have modified the full clinical hold placed on the TKM-Ebola Investigational New Drug Application (IND) to a partial clinical hold. This action enables the potential use of TKM-Ebola in individuals infected with Ebola virus. "We are pleased that the FDA has considered the risk-reward of TKM-Ebola for infected patients. We have been closely watching the Ebola virus outbreak and its consequences, and we are willing to assist with any responsible use of TKM-Ebola. The foresight shown by the FDA removes one potential roadblock to doing so," said Dr. Mark Murray, CEO and President, Tekmira Pharmaceuticals. "This current outbreak underscores the critical need for effective therapeutic agents to treat the Ebola virus. We recognize the heightened urgency of this situation, and are carefully evaluating options for use of our investigational drug within accepted clinical and regulatory protocols." TKM-Ebola is being developed by Tekmira Pharmaceuticals and the U.S. Department of Defense's Medical Countermeasure Systems BioDefense Therapeutics (MCS-BDTX) Joint Product Management Office. The Company remains on clinical hold as it relates to the multi-ascending dose portion of the Phase I clinical study in healthy volunteers with TKM-Ebola. "We are focused on an expedient resolution of this so that we can advance our TKM-Ebola to evaluate the multiple ascending dose regimen," said Dr. Mark Murray, CEO and President, Tekmira Pharmaceuticals. About the TKM-Ebola Phase I Clinical Trial The TKM-Ebola Phase I clinical trial is a randomized, single-blind, placebo-controlled study and involves single ascending doses and multiple ascending doses of TKM-Ebola. The study is assessing the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of administering TKM-Ebola to healthy adult volunteers without administering any steroid pre-medications. About TKM-Ebola, an Anti-Ebola Virus RNAi Therapeutic TKM-Ebola, an anti-Ebola virus RNAi therapeutic, is being developed under a $140 million contract with the U.S. Department of Defense's Medical Countermeasure Systems BioDefense Therapeutics (MCS-BDTX) Joint Product Management Office. Earlier preclinical studies were published in the medical journal The Lancet and demonstrated that when siRNA targeting the Ebola virus and delivered by Tekmira's LNP technology were used to treat previously infected non-human primates, the result was 100 percent protection from an otherwise lethal dose of Zaire Ebola virus (Geisbert et al., The Lancet, Vol 375, May 29, 2010). In March 2014, Tekmira was granted a Fast Track designation from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for the development of TKM-Ebola. About Joint Project Manager Medical Countermeasure Systems (JPM-MCS) This work is being conducted under contract with the U.S. Department of Defense Joint Project Manager Medical Countermeasure Systems (JPM-MCS). JPM-MCS, a component of the Joint Program Executive Office for Chemical and Biological Defense, aims to provide U.S. military forces and the nation with safe, effective, and innovative medical solutions to counter chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear threats. JPM-MCS facilitates the advanced development and acquisition of medical countermeasures and systems to enhance biodefense response capability. For more information, visit www.jpeocbd.osd.mil. About Tekmira Tekmira Pharmaceuticals Corporation is a biopharmaceutical company focused on advancing novel RNAi therapeutics and providing its leading lipid nanoparticle (LNP) delivery technology to pharmaceutical partners. Tekmira has been working in the field of nucleic acid delivery for over a decade and has broad intellectual property covering LNPs. Further information about Tekmira can be found at www.tekmira.com. Tekmira is based in Vancouver, B.C. Canada. FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Pawel KopczynskiFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors.  Avoid These Six Mistakes When Rebalancing Your Portfolio (Morningstar) As the time approaches to check up on your portfolio and make adjustments, there are several common mistakes you should be wary of, according to Morningstar's Christine Benz.  "For example, a portfolio that was 50% stocks and 50% bonds coming into 2009 would have been nearly 60% stocks by the end of 2012," Benz writes. "If the target allocation were 50/50, many experts would have recommended trimming at that point; after all, the portfolio's asset allocation had veered by nearly 10 percentage points from its target. But rebalancing at that point would have hindered, not helped, the portfolio's subsequent performance. Stocks went on to enjoy tremendous gains in 2013--so great that the portfolio that was 50% stock/50% bond at the beginning of 2009 would have been roughly two-thirds equity as of August 4, 2014." The six mistakes include:1. "Not starting with your company retirement plan assets:" Concentrating rebalancing activities within your tax-sheltered accounts like the company retirement mean "Not only will you not incur any capital gains taxes as you make changes to these accounts (you only pay taxes when you pull your money out), but 401(k), 403(b), and 457 plans are usually free of loads and other transaction costs, too."2. "Failing to pick your spots: ...Correcting any imbalances with your baseline asset allocation is job number one of rebalancing. …But rather than taking an equal percentage out of each of your equity holdings and adding proportionately to each of your bond positions, it pays to be surgical when deciding where to subtract and where to add."3. "Not addressing other problem areas: ...Concentrate your trimming on parts of your portfolio that were bugging you anyway."4. "Settling for faux-diversification": Don't give up stocks only to load up on bonds with stock like qualities. "Remember, the goal of portfolio rebalancing is to take risk off the table, and the best way to do that is to make sure your holdings aren't all moving in lockstep."5. "Not tying in rebalancing with other planned distributions: If you're retired and actively taking withdrawals from your portfolio …t's valuable to coordinate rebalancing with those withdrawals. That way you can reduce your portfolio's risk level while also freeing up cash."6. "Not moving slowly if your portfolio is dramatically out of balance: ...step back and think through your strategy for putting money to work" For Investors Who Need To Draw On Their Savings, Volatility Can Be Costly (AllianceBernstein) On the AllianceBernstein blog, Chris Marx and Kent Hargis write that volatility can be very harmful to your savings if you need to withdraw funds. "We are all prone to performance chasing, leading many of us to make the classic mistake of buying high when markets boom and bailing out too quickly when they bust (and forfeiting the chance to participate in subsequent recoveries). It’s harder to resist these impulses during volatile periods, which can erupt with little notice," Marx and Hargis said. "Even if you have the stomach to ride these upheavals without changing your allocation, volatility can still hurt," they said. "It’s a function of the cruel math that governs the difference between average returns and compounded returns: if a stock falls by 50%, it needs to rebound by 100% to restore lost ground. The steeper the fall, the harder it is to climb back. Compounded over time, big price swings can be a significant drag on long-term performance." Alternative Investments Will Make Up To 40% Of Asset Management Revenues In Six Years (Reuters) There's a huge growth opportunity in alternative investments coming up, according to McKinsey &amp; Co. By 2020, alternative investments, including hedge funds and private equity funds, will earn up to 40% of global revenues in the asset management industry. "Investors seek alternatives, which may invest in assets such as timber or real estate or use tactics such as betting against securities, for so-called 'uncorrelated' returns that do not move in tandem with traditional stock and bond markets. Fears of a downturn in stock or bond markets have been known to trigger demand for alternatives," according to Sam Forgione from Reuters. "The report said some investors were seeking alternatives for their safety as an 'insurance policy' against market volatility, while defined-benefit pension plans were seeking 'higher-yielding alternatives' compared to traditional stocks and bonds to meet investment goals," he writes. Most Advisory Firms' Strategic Plans Need Fixing (Financial Planning) In an article for Financial Planning, Ann Marsh writes that most firms' strategic plans are flawed. According to a study by FA Insight for TD Ameritrade, only 17% of firms said their strategic plans were a large factor in their success. "So what's going wrong? In most cases, advisors are not linking team members' performance to specific strategic outcomes, the study found -- nor are they promoting internally to give team members greater responsibility in areas that need attention," Marsh writes. "They aren't using leading indicators, such as client satisfaction surveys, to gauge their progress, [Director of research at FA Insight Dan] Inveen says -- and most aren't proactively hiring to bring on better skill sets." "I think the main takeaways are the importance of doing strategic planning right -- in terms of setting objectives, focusing on leading indicators rather than lagging indicators, detailing out how these objectives will be achieving and assigning accountability," Inveen tells Marsh. Investors Are The Most Pessimistic They've Been In A Year (American Association of Individual Investors) According to a survey from the American Association of Individual Investors, investor pessimism is on the rise, and at its highest level in nearly a year. The AAII Sentiment Survey said bearish sentiment is up 7.1 percentage points, and above the historical average by about 8 percentage points. Bullish sentiment went down 0.2 percentage points, and neutral sentiment declined 6.9 percentage points. "Bearish sentiment, expectations that stock prices will fall over the next six months, spiked by 7.1 percentage points to 38.2%. This is the largest amount of pessimism recorded in our survey since August 22, 2013. It is also the first time since April of this year with a bearish sentiment reading above the historical average of 30.5% for two consecutive weeks," the survey said. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Valentyn OgirenkoA woman looks at a Ukrainian serviceman as he guards a checkpoint near the eastern Ukrainian town of Debaltseve on Wednesday.Stocks continue to have a rough month. And the July 24 high of 1,991 continues to drift away. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Thursday FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Ng Han GuanCapitalism's only existed for 500 years or so.  In that time, some businesses have shaped human society more than others, whether by subjugating continents and controlling commodities or giving us microwaves and cheeseburgers. Here are a few of the ones that have shaped our modern world. FREE AppDownload
LinkedInAngela Coppa, a CPA, is also an accomplished triathlete.  Angela Coppa, an accountant at private equity firm Cerberus Capital, is suing former "American Gladiators" TV star Scott Berlinger for allegedly hitting her with his bicycle two years ago, the New York Post reports.  The alleged incident happened while Coppa was running the Central Park loop around 6:30. a.m. on July 30, 2012, her attorney Benjamin Salk of Salenger, Sack, Kimmel &amp; Bavaro said in a statement to business Insider.  According to her attorney, Coppa was struck from behind and injured. "She sustained a severe wrist fracture of the right radius that required surgery and implantation of hardware," Salk said.  Berlinger, 47, is the president/co-founder of Full Throttle Endurance Racing–a triathlon training team at Chelsea Piers. During the 90s, he was on the competition game show "American Gladiators" where he was known as "Viper." He has competed in a number of triathlons and finished the Lake Placid Ironman (140.6 miles) in 2002.  Coppa, 31, is also an accomplished runner and cyclist herself. She has finished a number of marathons and a half Ironman (1.2 mile swim, 56 mile bike ride and 13.1 mile run), according to her Athlinks.com profile.  Coppa's Half Ironman time is faster than Berlinger's. She finished the 70.3 mile race in San Juan Puerto Rico last year in 5:48:31, while it took Berlinger 6:10.52 to complete the 2008 half in St. Croix, records from Athlinks show.  We left messages seeking comment from both Berlinger and Coppa. We will update as warranted.  Here's Berlinger:  YouTube FREE AppDownload
SunEdison/FacebookShares in SunEdison, one of America's largest solar panel systems operators, were up as much as 12% today after reporting an unexpected quarterly profit Thursday. The Missouri-based company also said its project pipeline increased 19%. They recently announced the acquisition of the largest solar plant in Colorado.  The firm posted adjusted Q2 profits of $33.7 million, or 12 cents a share for the quarter ended against an expected loss of 26 cents according to a Bloomberg survey. Bloomberg's Chris Martin points out SunEdison is the best-performing solar stock of 2014, having climbed nearly 40%. SolarCity, which reports after the bell Thursday, were up about 4% heading into the close.   FREE AppDownload
Throughout Israel’s military operation in Gaza, Turkish Prime Minister Tayyip Erdogan appeared committed to outdoing himself in his hyperbolic criticism of Israel. A series of references to Israel massacring the population of Gaza culminated with accusations that Israel had “surpassed Hitler in barbarism.” The comments marked only the latest nadir in Turkey-Israel relations. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has typically been muted in his responses to Erdogan’s previous outbursts. But Netanyahu reacted differently to his Turkish counterpart’s latest paroxysm. He called Erdogan’s comments anti-Semitic, and downgraded diplomatic relations with Turkey to the “minimum required”. In the scheme of the four-plus year Turkey-Israel feud, this incident might seem to change little. The deal that began with Netanyahu’s apology for the Mavi Marmara snagged on the question of payment, but its outlines remain clear — if the sides can ever move beyond petty insults, that is.  Erdogan certainly benefits domestically from harsh rhetoric toward Israel, and he is presently in the home stretch of a presidential campaign he desperately wants to win on the first ballot. All the while, economic relations between Turkey and Israel have never been better — with trade up 39% to $48.5 billion in 2013, and on pace to break that record in 2014. Tourism between the two countries remains strong, and there were a record number of Turkish visitors to Israel in 2013. It is enough for optimists to look past the histrionics and see relations that are stable and productive, at least beneath the surface. That analysis may be breaking down, however, when it comes to one huge economic topic: energy, and specifically Israel’s gas reserves.  There is widespread agreement that a gas pipeline from Israel’s fields to Turkey’s ports is the most logical and lucrative export route available. Yet Turkey’s scorching rhetoric has, in Israel’s eyes, undermined its reliability as a partner for new initiatives — even for what is, at core, a mutually beneficial economic project. As a result, a joint venture that by any reasonable measure should commence seems to be indefinitely stalled, to the economic and strategic detriment of both parties. Turkey’s interest in Israeli gas stems from its rapidly increasing domestic needs. Natural gas consumption has risen threefold since 2001 and rose by a third between 2009 and 2012 before leveling off around 47 billion cubic meters (BCM) per year in 2013.  Russia supplied more than 55% of Turkey’s natural gas, and Iran chipped in nearly another 20 percent. Russia’s market power enables it to extract a high price for its gas, and Turkey’s long term take-or-pay contracts only exacerbate the financial burdens. In an effort to achieve cost savings through competition, Turkey has actively sought to diversify its supply lines. Azerbaijan currently provides roughly 4 BCM to the Turkish market, with plans to increase its supply to Turkey above 10 BCM in the coming years. Turkey also seeks gas from the Kurdistan Regional Government’s (KRG) rich gas fields in northern Iraq, though these are unlikely to come online until nearly the end of this decade. Turkey has factored Israeli gas into its strategy as well. Even with projected increases in consumption to 70 BCM per year by 2025, Kurdistan, Azerbaijan, and Israel collectively could help the Turks limit their dependence on Russia and Iran. Israel would not be some bit player in this scheme.  With fully-funded infrastructure projects and based only on current reserves, Israel could export 22 BCM per year. Even with Egypt claiming 7 BCM per year at present, Israel could conceivably still pipe 15 BCM to Turkey — more than 20% of the Turks’ projected domestic needs a decade from now.  For its part, Israel faces open questions about how Leviathan — its largest gas field — will be funded. In late July, Noble Energy elected to delay until 2015 its decision about investing $6 billion in Phase 1 development. Strictures on reserving gas for the domestic market and the threat of anti-trust intervention to fix prices factored heavily into the decision. At the same time, only Egypt has emerged as a viable revenue-driving export destination. Yet Turkey’s voracious appetite for natural gas could ensure the profitability of a fully-developed Leviathan field, while incentivizing further development of Israel’s gas industry through exploration. The country's direction under Erdogan endangers this arrangement. Turkey has positioned itself less and less as the mediating, facilitating actor of the late-2000s and early-2010s. An increasingly divisive foreign policy — consisting of fevered perorations after Abdel Fattah al-Sisi’s coup in Egypt and an apparent toleration of Syrian jihadist group Jabhat al-Nusra's presence on Turkish soil — culminated in Turkey taking its place as Hamas’ deputy interlocutor in negotiations with the U.S. and Israel during the latest Gaza crisis. Israel has taken note of the Turkish government’s shift. While Israel is not reckless or foolish enough to cancel profitable existing business relationships, future ones — especially in areas of such strategic import, like energy — will attract heavier scrutiny.  Some experts argue that this is sound policy. Why should Israel provide a strategic asset to an openly hostile leader like Erdogan? Others believe that, while Israel should still pursue the deal, it will not.  They explain that the deal is in Israel’s best interest, so why should it matter who stands at the other end? But, they claim, Netanyahu feels too bitterly toward Turkey’s AK Party government to countenance rebuilding strategic ties and selling them gas.  Whether Israel should or will sell to Turkey, few in Israel believe that a pipeline deal with Turkey is in the making in the near term. Turkey will carry on paying Russia and Iran’s steep fees, and Israel will await word on Noble’s future plans for Leviathan.  This is merely one consequence of the Gaza operation: the non-realization of a deal on natural gas that both sides want — and may desperately need. Dov Friedman is a graduate student at Yale University's Jackson Institute for Global Affairs. He is currently researching foreign policy in emerging energy states with support from the Coca-Cola World Fund. Follow him on Twitter @DovSFriedman. FREE AppDownload
Peter Kim/ShutterstockGin & Tonics are a popular cocktail. Gin is a classic liquor that draws its flavor from juniper berries and an essential component in many cocktails. Our friends at FindTheBest helped us compile a list of the best gin on the market. To rank the gin, FindTheBest looked at expert reviews from Wine Enthusiast Magazine and the Beverage Tasting Experience as well as the number of awards each gin received from the San Francisco World Spirits Competition, one of the most highly esteemed competitions in the alcoholic beverage industry. Gin is a beverage commonly drank mixed for the best results. Rehorst Premium Milwaukee Gin is a Wisconsin-made product that combines the flavors of aniseed, cardamom, cassia, coriander seed, juniper, lemon and orange peel, and sweet basil for a unique floral taste.  MonopolowaMonopolowa Dry Gin The North Shore Distillery's Gin No. 11 is a traditional London Dry gin. This Illinois distillery product is crisp and consistent, with key ingredients like fresh juniper, citrus, and spice.  Voyager Small-Batch Dry Gin prides itself on being a "gin lover's gin." Its another London Dry that utilizes key ingredients like juniper, citrus, and exotic spices, but differentiates itself by using only the finest organic elements. Made in Austria, Monopolowa Vienna Dry Gin is another quintessential, light flavor product with selective ingredients. Caraway, coriander, and fennel seed, as well as ginger root, lemon peel, and orange peel, are what gives this gin its distinctive bite.  With a modern flare, Nolet's Silver Dry Gin experimented with different elements to create a more fruity, floral beverage. Its key flavors are raspberry, rose petal, and white peach.  The West Winds Cutlass Gin is a rare Australian gem that's made with water from the Margaret River in Australia, lemon myrtle, bush tomato, and wattle seed. Tanqueray No. 10 is a traditional gin with a citrus punch, that actually uses whole fruits in its production including white grapefruit, lime, and orange. Juniper, coriander, and a sprinkle of chamomile flowers give this gin its extra special touch. Destilerias CampenyOnly Premium Gin Given its namesake, Van Gogh Gin is imported from The Netherlands, but still has flavor influenced from around the world. Licorice is a noteworthy detail and scent, but almond, angelica root, and of course juniper and orange peel keep it traditional.  Sloane's Premium Dry Gin is a top of the line London Dry, with expert botanicals and distilling. It's smooth, and flavorful, with fresh citrus ingredients. Try one of Sloane's Dry Gin cocktail recipes. The only gin to receive a perfect score from FindTheBest, Only Premium Gin really is a first class product. Hailed from Spain, the gin is floral infused with everything from hibiscus and violet to lavender and pansies. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsConsumer credit balances expanded by $17.25 billion in June. This is according to the Federal Reserve's new G.19 report of consumer credit balances. Economists estimated balances would increase by $18.65 billion. Revolving balances like credit cards increased by just $941.5 million. Non-revolving balance, which includes auto loans and student loans, increased by $16.3 billion. This included a $5.4 billion increase in Federal government lending, which is mostly educational loans. According to the Fed's July Senior Loan Officer Survey, banks reported easing credit standards and stronger demand for most financial products.   FREE AppDownload
We recently published our list of the World's Best Business Schools.  For our fifth annual survey of the World's Best Business Schools, we asked thousands of professionals from around the world who have experience hiring MBAs to determine the best business school. They came back with a clear favorite: Harvard University. Survey participants rated the reputation of the graduates from top business schools around the world on a scale of poor to excellent (1 to 5), with excellent ratings used as a tiebreaker. We included responses only from professionals who said they had experience hiring MBAs, as well as other filters to improve optimize our survey pool. We thought it would be interesting to create an infographic that breaks down the top 25 schools by geographical region: Skye Gould/Business Insider
REUTERS/Joseba EtxaburuAfter hitting another all-time high on July 24, the S&amp;P 500 Index fell for six consecutive trading days, leading to a 2.7% drop for stocks for the week ending August 1, 2014. Losing under 3% in a week seems a minor concern given historical market ups and downs, especially in the face of a strong bull market that has seen a 220% gain since the market’s low point in 2009. Nonetheless, investors may begin to wonder if stock market valuations are signaling a larger impending market decline and possibly even the end of this bull market cycle. Part of the fear over last week’s sell-off is that investors have not been accustomed to drops in stock prices over the past two years. After all, it’s been a long while since we have seen a significant pullback. In fact, this week marks the third anniversary of the last 10% or greater correction in the S&amp;P 500, which happened in the late summer of 2011 (July 22, 2011 – August 8, 2011). The catalyst at the time was the debt ceiling debacle in Congress and the resulting downgrade of the United States’ credit rating by Standard &amp; Poor’s alongside the increased risk of a break-up of the Eurozone. The stock market fell 17% during this two-and-a-half week period (and dropped 19% peak to trough from the April 2011 high through the October 2011 low).  Three years seems like a very long time without a 10% correction, and frankly, it is. But it is not without precedent. Economic expansions periodically offer long stretches of remarkably low volatility and a preponderance of up days for stocks. Since the end of the last significant sell-off for stocks (October 3, 2011), the market has been in a pretty consistent upward trend. The result is that it has been 1033 days since the end of a period culminating in a double-digit drop for the S&amp;P 500. LPL FinancialSince 1980, three periods have gone longer without a double-digit decline [Figure 1]. Keep in mind we came very close to that 10% mark in 2012, with a loss of just under 10% in April through June of that year, and during that time a number of market segments did lose more than 10%. In a typical year, the S&amp;P 500 endures an average of four 5% pullbacks. Against this backdrop, we see this latest bout of volatility (roughly a 3% drop in the S&amp;P 500 since July 24) as normal, overdue, and frankly, healthy. While we do not necessarily believe this latest bout of volatility is the start of a 10% market correction -- though it is possible -- it is worth noting that we have had only one 5% pullback so far this year (January 22 – February 5, 2014). As we move later in the business cycle, an increase in volatility is to be expected. But at this point, based on our economic and market outlook, we would view this slight sell-off and any more pronounced weakness as a potential buying opportunity. The current pullback has led to slightly more attractive valuations. With the bull market having produced a total cumulative return of over 220% since it began on March 9, 2009, it is no surprise that many investors and stock market pundits have begun expressing concerns about stock valuations. We highlighted the importance of valuations, looking specifically at price-to-earnings ratios (PE), in our Mid-Year Outlook 2014: Investor’s Almanac Field Notes publication, where it is included as one of our five “forecasters.” These five key indicators, which include valuations, have consistently and reliably signaled the increasing fragility of the economy. Furthermore, they have marked the transition to the late stage of the business cycle and have foreshadowed the likelihood of a recession. PEs are the most commonly cited metric when measuring stock market valuations. PEs measure the price of a stock market index, or single stock, relative to corporate profits, or earnings. Observing the PE ratio of a broad index such as the S&amp;P 500 can measure how expensive the broad market may be. The lower the PE, the more attractive stocks are and vice versa. However, there are three very different versions: 1. Trailing PE, the price divided by the past four quarters’ earnings per share for companies in the S&amp;P 500 -- currently at about 16.9 (and our preferred measure); 2. Forward PE, the price divided by the Wall Street analyst consensus estimate for the next four quarters’ earnings per share -- currently at 15.2; 3. Cyclically adjusted PE, or CAPE, the price divided by the average of 10 years of earnings, adjusted for inflation -- currently about 26. As a note, we rarely use the CAPE, which has been saying for five years now that stocks are overvalued even as one of the most powerful bull markets ever seen has taken place. It is our opinion that the CAPE fails as an investing tool for several reasons, among them the arbitrary 10-year adjustment period, which is longer than most actual cycles and therefore distorts the “cycle” average for earnings. In addition, huge changes to the index constituents over the past 10 years almost render the CAPE useless. So many big companies weren’t even in the S&amp;P 500 Index 10 years ago, like Google (added in 2006) and Amazon (2005), while AIG was one of the largest constituents and Lehman Brothers was in there as well (and obviously is not now). While of paramount importance to investment returns over the long term, there is no relationship over the short term between the level of the PE and stock market performance over the following year. As a result, valuation is a poor market-timing indicator. In other words, valuation is like brushing your teeth -- you know it is important over the long term, but its significance and impact is at some time in the uncertain future. Like regular brushing, monitoring valuation can help you take care of the health of your portfolio in the long term, but it won’t tell you what’s going to happen in the next year. Thus, while valuation should always be considered, it is a blunt tool -- like a toothbrush -- that should be taken into broader context. The current trailing PE of 16.9 is above the long-term average (since 1927) of about 15, but it is far from the peak of 2000, and it remains in line with the average since 1980. Nevertheless, it is approaching an important range. Since WWII, every bull market has ended with a PE between 17<U+2009>and <U+2009>18, with the exception of the bull market that ended in 2000, which peaked much higher. This is not to suggest the PE could not go higher than it is today. In past cycles, PEs did reach higher levels before ending up between 17 and 18 as the stock market peaked. We also note that earnings are on pace for the high-single-digit gains that we forecast for this year, and as a result, very little, if any, PE multiple expansion is required for the S&amp;P 500 to reach our targeted return range for 2014 of 10 – 15%. LPL FinancialWeeks like last week drive investors to search for a reason to justify the modest sell-off. Although there are many potential culprits, valuation is likely not one of them. Stock valuations remain slightly elevated but not at levels to spark selling pressure or concern. That said, valuations at current levels do suggest that the bar for growth has been raised and that stocks are likely more vulnerable to any economic deterioration if growth does not materialize in the second half. However, amid the equity market losses of last week, economic data continued to validate a strengthening economic backdrop, including a healthy July jobs report, above-consensus second quarter gross domestic product (GDP) results, and a better-than-expected ISM report for July (please see this week’s Weekly Economic Commentary for details). These strong results are important since solid growth, not valuations, remains the most important catalyst for fueling stock market gains for the remainder of the year. So keep brushing those teeth and looking out for market “cavities,” but, for now, we would not be too afraid of the dentist. This article originally appeared at LPL Financial.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mikhail VoskresenskA market stall in Moscow on Feb. 8, 2013. On Thursday we learned Russia will ban the imports of meat, dairy, fruit, and some vegetable products from the West. Combined with earlier measures, Russian sanctions now target goods worth $8.7 billion, an insignificant amount on the scale of the E.U.'s $18 trillion and America's $16 trillion economy, the Wall Street Journal reported. As a result, many believe the sanctions will only end up hurting ordinary Russians.  Ordinary Russians think so, too.  "The move provoked an immediate internet backlash, with Russian Twitter users predicting a return to the empty shelves and queues for food that characterized the collapse of the Soviet Union," The Telegraph reported. Here's what they were talking about. "Russians walk by empty shelves: 'How about that!'" Kirill Martynov tweeted. <U+0420><U+0443><U+0441><U+0441><U+043A><U+0438><U+0435> <U+0448><U+043B><U+0438> <U+043C><U+0438><U+043C><U+043E> <U+043F><U+0443><U+0441><U+0442><U+044B><U+0445> <U+043F><U+043E><U+043B><U+043E><U+043A> <U+0438> <U+0434><U+0443><U+043C><U+0430><U+043B><U+0438>: "<U+041A><U+0430><U+043A> <U+043C><U+044B> <U+0438><U+0445>!" <U+0417><U+0430><U+043C><U+0435><U+0442><U+043D><U+0435><U+0435> <U+0432><U+0441><U+0435><U+0433><U+043E> <U+044D><U+043C><U+0431><U+0430><U+0440><U+0433><U+043E> <U+043E><U+0442><U+0440><U+0430><U+0437><U+0438><U+0442><U+0441><U+044F> <U+043D><U+0430> <U+0441><U+044B><U+0440><U+0435>. <U+0421><U+043B><U+0435><U+0432><U+0430> <U+0442><U+0440><U+0438> <U+0445><U+043E><U+043B><U+043E><U+0434><U+0438><U+043B><U+044C><U+043D><U+0438><U+043A><U+0430> <U+0441> <U+0438><U+043C><U+043F><U+043E><U+0440><U+0442><U+043D><U+044B><U+043C> <U+0441><U+044B><U+0440><U+043E><U+043C>, <U+0441><U+043F><U+0440><U+0430><U+0432><U+0430> <U+043F><U+043E><U+043B> - <U+0440><U+043E><U+0441><U+0441><U+0438><U+0439><U+0441><U+043A><U+043E><U+0433><U+043E> pic.twitter.com/LK35ZO4xHh User "Elena the Translator," who's been retweeting negative reactions to the news, simply said, "God, how awful everything is." <U+0413><U+043E><U+0441><U+043F><U+043E><U+0434><U+0438>, <U+043A><U+0430><U+043A> <U+0432><U+0441><U+0435> <U+0443><U+0436><U+0430><U+0441><U+043D><U+043E> :( <U+041F><U+043E><U+043A><U+0443><U+043F><U+0430><U+0439> <U+043E><U+0442><U+0435><U+0447><U+0435><U+0441><U+0442><U+0432><U+0435><U+043D><U+043D><U+043E><U+0435> pic.twitter.com/YlwEDsUqww "I've only lived half my life, and I'm already transitioning to horse meat," Yaroslav Sviridov said.  <U+0417><U+0435><U+043C><U+043D><U+0443><U+044E> <U+0436><U+0438><U+0437><U+043D><U+044C> <U+043F><U+0440><U+043E><U+0439><U+0434><U+044F> <U+0434><U+043E> <U+043F><U+043E><U+043B><U+043E><U+0432><U+0438><U+043D><U+044B>, <U+042F> <U+043F><U+0435><U+0440><U+0435><U+0448><U+0435><U+043B> <U+043D><U+0430> <U+0431><U+043B><U+044E><U+0434><U+0430> <U+0438><U+0437> <U+043A><U+043E><U+043D><U+0438><U+043D><U+044B>. <U+0413><U+043E><U+0432><U+044F><U+0434><U+0438><U+043D><U+0443> <U+043C><U+043E><U+0436><U+043D><U+043E> <U+0437><U+0430><U+043C><U+0435><U+043D><U+0438><U+0442><U+044C> <U+043D><U+0430><U+0446><U+0438><U+043E><U+043D><U+0430><U+043B><U+044C><U+043D><U+044B><U+043C> <U+043B><U+0438><U+0434><U+0435><U+0440><U+043E><U+043C>, <U+0442><U+0443><U+0430><U+043B><U+0435><U+0442><U+043D><U+0443><U+044E> <U+0431><U+0443><U+043C><U+0430><U+0433><U+0443> - <U+0434><U+0443><U+0445><U+043E><U+0432><U+043D><U+043E><U+0441><U+0442><U+044C><U+044E>, <U+0444><U+0440><U+0443><U+043A><U+0442><U+044B> - <U+043F><U+044F><U+0442><U+0438><U+043C><U+0438><U+043D><U+0443><U+0442><U+043A><U+043E><U+0439> <U+043D><U+0435><U+043D><U+0430><U+0432><U+0438><U+0441><U+0442><U+0438> <U+043F><U+043E> <U+0422><U+0412> <U+043A> <U+0442><U+0435><U+043C>, <U+0443> <U+043A><U+043E><U+0433><U+043E> <U+043E><U+043D><U+0438> <U+0435><U+0441><U+0442><U+044C>! But it appears the greatest impact will be felt by Russians themselves. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike BlakeShares of U.S. poultry producers are down today after Russia announced sanctions targeting Western meat products including chicken from the U.S. Arkansas-based Tyson Foods is down 2.3% and Colorado-based Pilgrim's Pride is down 3.0%. Russia imported $303 million worth of American chicken last year, according to the National Chicken Council. It's the second-largest destination for U.S. poultry.  The NCC said any impact on U.S. industry would be minimal.  "As its domestic poultry industry has expanded, Russia has in recent years become less important as an export market," they said. "Russia currently accounts for only about 7% of total U.S. poultry export volume. In the mid-1990s, exports to Russia were as much as 40 percent of that total." Instead, they said, ordinary Russians are likely to suffer the most.   “The biggest impact, we believe, will be on Russian citizens who will be burdened by higher prices for all food products, especially meat and poultry," the NCC said in its statement. "The price of poultry in Russia is already rising and has recently been increasing at a rate of 2% percent to 3% per week."  Russia's RIA Novosti is reporting Brazil has offered to replace lost volumes.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersT-Mobile CEO John Legere speaks during a news conference at the 2014 International Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las VegasWASHINGTON (Reuters) - T-Mobile US &lt;tmus.n&gt; plans to overtake Sprint Corp &lt;s.n&gt; as the No. 3 wireless U.S. carrier in subscribers by the end of the year, Chief Executive Officer John Legere, tweeted on Thursday. The declaration came a day after T-Mobile announced it surpassed Sprint as the No. 1 wireless provider for prepaid customers, with 15.64 million customers, compared with Sprint's 15.19 million. The figures put T-Mobile, which calls itself the "uncarrier," well ahead of rivals AT&amp;T &lt;t.n&gt; and Verizon &lt;vz.n&gt;, in the prepaid market. Verizon and AT&amp;T hold a larger share of the country's more profitable postpaid subscriber base. "I predict the #uncarrier will overtake @Sprint in total customers by the end of the year! There, I said it!," tweeted Legere. While T-Mobile has been adding record numbers of subscribers through promotions and campaigns, Sprint customers have been leaving in droves due to service problems arising from carrier's network overhaul. Earlier this week, Sprint's parent company SoftBank Corp &lt;9984.T&gt; walked away from an offer to buy T-Mobile and named Miami businessman Marcelo Claure its new chief executive. Legere, known for his outspoken style, did not waste time in engaging with his new competitor, and tweeted at Claure on Thursday "Sorry @marceloclaure, you're already behind!." While T-Mobile's aggressive strategy has helped the company turn around, its parent company, Deutsche Telekom &lt;9984.T&gt; has been concerned that its lack of low-frequency spectrum and fixed-line infrastructure is still hampering its ability to compete. The company will have to spend an estimated $5 billion to $10 billion in the upcoming auction of radio frequency waves, according to one analyst, the first public auction for valuable low-frequency airwaves in nearly a decade T-Mobile shares were down 3.21 percent and Sprint shares were up 1.5 percent after falling nearly 20 percent on Wednesday.   (Reporting by Marina Lopes; Editing by David Gregorio) FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Toby TalbotOne of the big bullish arguments on the US recovery is that companies that have been sitting on piles of cash following the financial crisis, will help revive growth once they unleash capital spending.  A report from PriceWaterhouseCoopers (PwC) showed that 36% of private company CEOs expect to make big new investments over the next 12 months. But in a new research note to clients, Goldman Sachs' Jan Hatzius argues that capital spending "no longer seems to be at a depressed level." This is because capital spending is already pretty close to equilibrium. From Hatzius (emphasis ours):  "If we assume that this remains true in the future, the "equilibrium" growth rate of the real business capital stock is approximately equal to the growth rate of potential real GDP. (To be more precise, since the line slopes down slightly, the equilibrium growth rate of the capital stock may be slightly below that of potential GDP; against that, the current capital/output ratio is slightly below trend, suggesting some room for near-term catch-up.). At first glance, this observation might still suggest quite a bit of upside for capital spending; after all, the most recent reported growth rate of the real business capital stock is just 1.3%. This is still well below most estimates of real potential GDP growth, which are now clustered in the 2%-2¼% range. But the 1.3% capital stock growth rate refers to the 2012 annual average and is now quite dated. Fortunately, we can get an approximation of the current growth pace by looking at the ratio of net business fixed investment to nominal GDP. As shown in Exhibit 3, this approximation has historically been quite close. (The only exception is the technology boom of the late 1990s, when unusually rapid relative price changes may have loosened the link between the nominal net investment ratio and the real capital stock growth rate.) The relationship currently suggests that the real capital stock is now growing at around 2%. Since this is no longer far below potential GDP growth, it seems that the fundamental argument for big increases in capital spending has weakened considerably." Hatzius is quick to point out that this doesn't mean there is no upside for capital spending. He expects a 5% pace of capital spending growth by 2015-2016. Goldman Sachs FREE AppDownload
We learned an important lesson about sportsmanship from a Wall Street hedge fund manager on Thursday. Here it is: Just because you're in a vicious decade-plus legal battle with a country that owes you money, it doesn't mean you can't show your love and support for that country at the World Cup. How did we learn this? Bloomberg's Max Abelson and Katia Porzecanski are out with an awesome profile of Paul Singer, the hedge fund manager currently engaged in a battle with Argentina for over $1.3 billion worth of sovereign debt. Last month the country failed to pay Singer, despite a U.S. Court order, and is now in default. Argentina had been refusing to pay Singer because he and fellow holdout creditors would not take a haircut on debt they purchased after Argentina's default in 2001. The piece by Abelson and Pozecanski is perfect for those who have not been following the story obsessively. For those who have, nuggets of telling information are sprinkled throughout the story. Like the fact that Paul Singer showed up to an Argentina game at the World Cup wearing the country's jersey. He cheered for the The Republic as it "made its glorious push" to victory (as Abelson and Porzecanski put it). With the magic of Photoshop, we can imagine it looked something like this. Mike Nudelman, Business Insider Sidenote: On Thursday the International Swaps Derivative Association will meet again to decide if Argentine credit default swaps will be triggered. There is some debate on this because Argentina insists that it paid some creditors — everyone but Singer and his fellow holdouts — but the Court would not allow the payment to be sent without Singer's money as well. Those hundreds of millions are just chilling in a bank. Waiting. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe headquarters of Deutsche Bank AG is pictured in Frankfurt(Reuters) - U.S. banking regulators have ordered Deutsche Bank AG to improve its compliance systems and risk controls, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing people familiar with the matter. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York and New York state's Department of Financial Services want the bank to overhaul its technology and compliance procedures through a "memorandum of understanding" (MOU), the newspaper reported. An MOU is the most severe form of informal action. It is generally used when a bank has multiple deficiencies that regulators believe can be corrected by current management. Deutsche Bank received a letter last December from the New York Fed, which described financial reports produced by some of the bank's U.S. divisions as "low quality, inaccurate and unreliable." The MOU took effect in 2012 and is still in place, the Journal said. The New York Fed has set a mid-2015 deadline to correct a list of high-priority issues, the report said. "We decline to comment on the alleged communication with our regulators," Deutsche Bank said in an emailed statement.   (Reporting by Tanya Agrawal; Editing by Sriraj Kalluvila) FREE AppDownload
Business Insider/Skye Gould The Texas Pacific Land Trust has traded under ticker symbol TPL since ticker tape was an emerging technology. But at a time when billions of shares change hands every day and a high-frequency head start measured in milliseconds can be enough to game the system, few on Wall Street have ever heard of it. That’s their loss. With a colorful history peopled with scheming robber barons, corrupt politicians, wildcat oilmen, farsighted hedge funders, and one rebel heiress, TPL is currently outpacing 99% of the stocks traded on the New York Stock Exchange. Its operating margins are orbiting near the stratosphere: around 90%, compared with 30% for Apple, Inc. A share purchased in August 2009 for $30 would today go for $170 — for an average annual growth rate of of 41%. This year alone, the stock is up 73%. Not bad compared with the increase of .68% we’ve seen in the Dow Jones Industrial Average (which doesn’t include TPL) during the same period. Business InsiderThe Trust is a highly atypical company, and not only in terms of its financial performance. It manufactures no products and provides no services. It has never released a killer app or built a game-changing innovation, and it controls no patents. It maintains no factories, facilities, equipment, machinery, or inventory, nor does it carry any other meaningful expenses, aside from eight employees occupying a modest 27th-floor suite in a bland office tower in Dallas’ City Center. It has no competitors, no liabilities, and no debt. Its chief asset — land, lots of land — is finite and tends to steadily, reliably increase in value over time, that is, until someone figures out a way to suck out more oil, at which point it goes bananas. TPL’s only real goal is to maximize returns while gradually liquidating its assets. “Imagine the PowerPoint presentation,” muses Louis Geser, chief analyst for White Space marketing and an independent microcap analyst, who began purchasing TPL when it was around $35. “You could list what this company does on one hand, and it’s on autopilot.” Not exactly, says David Peterson, the Trust's CEO, who along with his team is kept pretty busy making real estate deals and keeping an eye on the accounts receivable. "It's not as sleepy as it once was, that's for sure, sir," he says.   Lara Barrett/ShutterstockLand in West Texas.TPL’s assets aren’t much to look at. Just mile after dusty mile of bone-dry, mostly featureless desert and grassland, studded with creosote and acacia shrubs, stretching forever across the empty expanse of West Texas. The Trust has its origins in 1871, when the State of Texas and the U.S. government, eager to spur the construction of the Texas Pacific Railway, proffered a massive land grant — or what some might call a giveaway. With the land as collateral, the railroad financed its construction by selling nearly $9 million in bonds to the public. Several years later, it went bankrupt, and in 1888 it began liquidating parcels to satisfy those investors. It’s been a very drawn-out process. “Yep, we’re going out of business,” TPL’s former manager, Roy Thomas, joked in a 2005 interview with The Dallas Morning News. “It’s just taking us a while.” What began as more than 3.4 million acres has now been pared down to 911,216, and Peterson seems in no hurry to dispose of the rest. “If the trustees were to receive an offer, they would consider it,” he tells Business Insider. “In the meantime, the race has started, and we’re pointed in the direction of the finish line.” He laughs. “Of course, no one knows how far that finish line is exactly....”    That’s just fine with TPL’s stockholders, who tend to be among the most patient of investors. Hodges CapitalDonald Hodges. The Trust has a few sources of cash flow. In addition to slowly liquidating its holdings — an acre here, an acre there, usually buildable parcels near towns or cities — it derives some modest income from grazing rights and wind farms, receives surface damages from pipelines and other infrastructure, and earns royalties from oil found in shale formations miles below the surface. Currently, the latter revenue stream is by far the most lucrative due to the boom in fracking and other secondary recovery methods, which have unleashed significant reserves in areas that were abandoned by Big Oil decades ago. But even without that recent windfall, TPL would be a highly appealing investment. The Trust spends its cash two different ways: It distributes a small fraction to shareholders in the form of dividends (at a current yield of .27%), and it systematically repurchases and retires outstanding shares. As a result, there are fewer of those out there all the time. Donald Hodges, chairman of Hodges Capital, which counts oilman turned financier T. Boone Pickens among its clients, has been in the stock for decades and currently owns more than 6% of the Trust. “Mathematically, to me it’s just one of those stocks where you can’t really say what it’s worth,” Hodges says, “but you know it’s worth a lot, and you just better hang on for the ride.”   Texaspacificrailway.orgA stock certificate from the Texas Pacific Railway.Back in 1904, The New York Times ran an article in its financial pages taking note of the Texas Pacific Land Trust’s novel approach to doing business. Even then it was clear that by canceling its liabilities more quickly than it disposed of its assets, TPL represented a uniquely lucrative proposition for a patient investor. “It has been possible by the sale of a small portion of the trust’s lands to buy for cancellation a much larger percentage of the outstanding certificates,” the article explained, noting that in just four years, the float (or outstanding shares) had been reduced by 21% through the sale of just 5% of the land. It was, The Times declared, “the acme of financiering.” Nearly a century later, in 1995, hedge fund manager Murray Stahl came to a similar conclusion. A “Contrarian Research Report” released by his fund, Horizon Asset Management, described a little-known stock that was “slowly but steadily buying itself out of public ownership. “Although this process has been ongoing for over a century,” the fund reported, “it may now have reached a point at which this dynamic begins to naturally accelerate …” Predicting that within a decade, “the company’s assets could become concentrated in the hands of a few share owners,” the report concluded that seeing as how the shares represented 1 million acres of Texas land, “the magnitude of this accumulation of per-share value could be extraordinary.” The price of a share at that point was a reasonable $20. Factor in subsequent stock splits, and anyone who followed Stahl’s counsel would have turned that $20 into $1044, for an increase of 5120%. Horizon, now Horizon Kinetics, took its report to heart. While Stahl and his colleagues declined to speak with Business Insider for this article, public filings show that the company’s position in TPL is now around 1.5 million shares, worth around $200 million.  A full decade after that first report, the stock underwent a notable adjustment, losing a third of its value in just two months. But when Horizon released a follow-up report in 2005, the fund was if anything more bullish, describing the precipitous price drop as a win for stockholders, because the cheaper the stock, the faster the trust could repurchase the outstanding shares, driving up the value of those that remained. “If you’re a long-term shareholder, you almost want the price to decline,” notes Eric Marshall, portfolio manager for Hodges Capital, who has been tracking TPL for decades. “The lower the stock price, the more shares get bought back, the more acres you own per share at the end.” Further, as Horizon pointed out, the more shares the Trust owns, the less it has to pay out in dividends, leaving still bigger piles of cash lying around to purchase more shares. Donald Hodges, who recently celebrated his 80th birthday, puts it succinctly: “The guy that ends up with the last shares is going to be a rich son of a gun.” Generally speaking, he adds, TPL’s business model is “about as good of an equation as I’ve seen since I’ve been in this business, which is 54 years. I haven’t found a negative to it yet.” There is, perhaps, no company quite like it in the world. “They don’t even have to be successful as a business,” Louis Geser marvels. “All they have to do is keep doing what they’ve been doing for 125 years.” By that reading, the mineral royalties that have been pouring into TPL’s bank accounts of late are just the slimy, black icing on the cake. Oil has painted the sands of West Texas more than once in the past century, spawning corporate empires and political dynasties (the Bush family is one), winners and losers, and boom towns that blossom overnight then tip into a steep decline when the pump jacks start sputtering. But fracking or no, TPL has quietly been making its investors wealthy for more than a century. All because of one big bet that went very, very bad — back when the country was young, capitalism was practiced with bare-knuckled zeal, oversight was virtually nonexistent, and land seemed all but limitless.   APAn anonymous drawing of a Texan herd being driven to the railhead.In the mid-19th century, the idea of building a railroad through Texas and on to California was more than a compelling business proposition. It would be “the greatest commercial achievement, in art and science, contributed by the intellect and enterprise of man upon the globe,” in the words of one well-respected commentator of the era. Listen closely and you can hear the same lofty Utopian spirit that still sets pulses racing in today's Silicon Valley: the ardent faith in the power of technology to bring people together and ultimately redeem them. The railroad would, as we say these days, make the world a better place. “It would form a connecting link between nations and peoples, by affording communication between the continents, islands, rivers, zones, climates, seas and gulfs,” the writer went on. “It would unite the old with the new, the Latin blood with the Saxon, the present with the future, lift ignorance into the sphere of intelligence and power, and give to the peoples of the world a new life full of prosperity and promise.” It’s a familiar idea — deploying a disruptive new networking technology to make life easier, increase communication, and expand horizons. In this case, the new technology was a railroad, the Texas &amp; Pacific, and the goal of the pitch was to persuade the government to help finance its construction. Portal to Texas HistoryA map of Texas published by the T&P, 1876.Grandiose though the author’s language may sound today, it reflects the spirit of the Reconstruction era. Manifest destiny, as the nation’s imperialist impulses were then earnestly called, was still a heady, blood-stirring notion for many Americans. The nation’s fragility had recently been illustrated by the devastating loss of 750,000 soldiers (and an unknown number of civilians), during the Civil War, which had only just ended a few years before. The executives of the Texas &amp; Pacific Railway were not ones to soft-pedal the scheme’s potential. “Prosperous communities of farmers, and thriving towns inhabited by intelligent mechanics, manufacturers and traders, will spring up like magic,” they promised. “School houses and churches will everywhere adorn infant towns and incipient cities, and civilization will take firm and permanent root in what is now but a wilderness.” Another contemporary advocate reeled off a long list of more practical benefits, from promoting the settlement of the West and “intercourse with the Indian tribes” to increasing frontier security, facilitating military transport, spurring trade with Asia, and bringing “the lights of American civilization to regions remote and hitherto involved in the darkness of pagan idolatry and imperial despotism.” Meanwhile, failing to build the railroad, its proponents warned, could have dire consequences, including the possible secession of California and Oregon. “Who can doubt that a new republic will grow up on the shores of the Pacific, which would perhaps … obtain supremacy of [its] own,” one observer suggested ominously. texaspacificrailway.org The railroad’s partisans marshaled another argument to pry more subsidies out of the Texas legislature and the U.S. Congress — and it too has echoes in today’s tech industry. A southern route to the Pacific was needed to counteract the monopoly that had sprung up to the North, where the Central and Union Pacific railroads had created a stranglehold on interstate commerce and transport. This rationale was an especially compelling one for Southerners, still reeling economically from the war (not to mention the new labor costs brought about by the abolition of slavery) and eager to wrest their fates from the clutches of Northern robber barons. So what if getting the railroad built meant a massive transfer of the public domain into private hands? “It was worth 25 cents an acre,” Louis Geser says. “There wasn’t seismic data on the property. No one knew there was oil in tight seams that could be accessed 100 years later by fracking. It was just an asset to give away to incent people to build a railroad to move goods.” The Texas &amp; Pacific Railway (T&amp;P), which received its Congressional charter in 1871, wasn’t the first effort to build a railroad across Texas. One attempt, which brought its backers 18 million acres of Texas state lands, ended in failure with just six miles of railway completed. The property was turned over to a receiver, eventually becoming the basis of T&amp;P’s land grant. In exchange for building the portion of the railroad that would connect Texas to San Diego — passing through New Mexico, Arizona, and California — Congress kicked in 16 million more acres in those territories. And T&amp;P’s acquisition of two smaller Texas railroads added many millions on top of that. Wikimedia CommonsCol. Thomas Scott.By 1873, the T&amp;P — under the able leadership of Col. Thomas A. Scott, also a vice president of the powerful Pennsylvania railroad and a would-be robber baron himself — had cobbled together one of the most impressive land grants in history, larger than the state of Massachusetts. The land was considerably more than was necessary to situate the railroad tracks, intentionally so. The idea was to sell it off piecemeal to settlers to finance construction. Such subsidies were all the rage in those days. In total, as much as 10 percent of the country was handed over to railroads and other interests, a Gilded Age free-for-all that the Pulitzer Prize-winning historian Vernon Louis Parrington dubbed “the Great Barbecue” — a grand banquet laid out by the federal government, at which the nation’s wealthiest citizens made gluttons of themselves. “Congress had rich gifts to bestow,” Parrington wrote in 1927. “The eating and drinking went on … until only the great carcasses were left. Then at last came the reckoning. When the bill was sent in to the American people the farmers discovered they had been put off with the giblets while the capitalists were consuming the turkey.” Still, T&amp;P’s generous helping was not secured without considerable lobbying, log-rolling, and probably outright theft, as detailed in “Reunion and Reaction” by the late Yale historian C. Vann Woodward. One scheme engineered by Scott and his colleagues involved the creation of a construction company — its primary stockholders consisting of themselves, their cronies, and, it was alleged, numerous members of Congress — which was then handed all the railroad’s construction contracts, a sweetheart deal with guaranteed profits. Still, the land grants came with conditions: Work would have to be completed on a set timetable, or the property would be returned to the public domain. Mindful of its deadlines, T&amp;P quickly set to work selling bonds and laying track. In an early annual report, Scott assured bondholders that the board “saw no reason why the entire line shall not be finished within a period of five years.”   Obstacles began piling up almost immediately. First, an untimely lack of rainfall rendered the Red River impassable, which meant supplies had to be hauled overland. Then, in the spring of 1873, the workers were beset by an epidemic of yellow fever. Most devastating of all was the stock market panic of 1873, when the bank Jay Cooke &amp; Co. went under, taking the whole U.S. economy — as well as many European economies — with it and contributing to a “Great Depression” that lasted years. Scott, by this time known as the Railroad King, sought extensions and further government subsidies, using every means at his disposal, from providing elected officials with free passage on the various lines under his control to initiating a lobbying campaign so aggressive it raised eyebrows in the media. “Of course, there are the pamphlets printed, and dinners eaten, and the usual consumption of champagne,” The Times wrote when one massive T&amp;P bailout came up for a vote. “Congressmen are classified, as an entomologist arranges his bugs before pinning them in frames … and any Senator or Representative who ventures to question the claim of Mr. Thomas Scott to receive this subsidy … is at once argued with, cajoled, threatened or persuaded.” Despite these efforts, Scott’s entreaties met with increasing skepticism. One bid for a time extension, in 1880, turned into a scandal when a whistleblower named James A. George submitted a letter to a House committee accusing T&amp;P officials of having committed “bribery and fraud” in procuring its original charter. Promising documentary proof, he alleged that the company’s executives had paid “over 30 members of Congress” a total of nearly $300,000 for their votes. The evidence was never forthcoming, and a few years later a House member claimed to have paid George $300 (a relative bargain) “to keep his mouth shut.” Regardless of whether George’s claim had any basis in fact, there is little doubt that fraud and corruption were par for the course in the late 19th century and beyond. “Those sorts of charges appeared constantly, and they were probably all true,” says Randolf Campbell, professor of history at the University of North Texas. “In that age, anything went. These guys were all such wheeler-dealers. It’s just astonishing the sort of shenanigans they got away with.” APRailroad tycoon Jay Gould. Because of T&amp;P’s failure to build the requisite track, even after a five-year-extension, the company was forced to relinquish the 15 million acres granted by the Federal government in New Mexico, Arizona, and California — but not before its leaders cooked up a deal to transfer the property to the California-based Southern Pacific Railroad, which in the meantime had managed to lay down track from San Diego to Texas along the same route the T&amp;P once hoped to use. The deal would have been, The New York Times declared in a 1885 editorial, “one of the most audacious swindles ever attempted upon the Government of the United States.” Scott had meanwhile been replaced by Jay Gould, the widely reviled railroad tycoon and stock speculator, who had managed to complete the Texas portion of the T&amp;P, securing much of the land grant originally offered by the state of Texas. Alas, as the T&amp;P’s empty rail cars began rattling across the mostly uninhabited scrub land of West Texas, it quickly became evident that, for the time being at least, the “prosperous communities of farmers” promised by the railroad’s founders had failed to materialize.   The Southern Pacific scheme was eventually thwarted, and T&amp;P’s subsequent return of more than 15 million federal acres to the public domain goes down as the largest land grant forfeiture in history. But the railroad was still left more than 3.4 million Texas acres to play with when it went belly up and was forced into receivership. In a reorganization plan, shares in the Trust, valued at $100 each, were issued in exchange for the original railroad bonds. Each stock certificate represented 100 shares — and a board of trustees set about liquidating the land. Doing so proved difficult, at least initially. Despite the T&amp;P’s aggressive sales pitch to settlers a decade before — when it promised that “those who earliest avail themselves of the unrivaled advantages of cheap lands and eligible situations, will, of course, reap the largest reward” — immigrants who took the bait were met with dire challenges. The great-grandparents of President Lyndon B. Johnson were among those early Texas settlers. In the biography “The Path to Power,” Robert A. Caro chronicled how within just a few years poor management of livestock and an ignorance of the science of crop rotation quickly transformed what appeared to be a fertile arcadia into an unforgiving desert.   “It had taken centuries to create the richness of the Hill Country,” Caro wrote. “In two decades or three after man came into it, the richness was gone …" On their arrival, the landscape was covered with grass, but as the planting seasons went by, farmers and cattlemen realized that under a small layer of rich soil, “it was a land of stone ... and the implications of that fact had become clear.” As word got out, TPL ran into difficulty selling off its holdings — a circumstance that would prove auspicious to those who held onto their stock certificates. At that very moment, it just so happened, German inventor Karl Benz was perfecting the gasoline-powered automobile, and within a few decades, oil would begin gushing from that barren “land of stone,” making a lot of Texans very wealthy.   New York Social DiaryAlice De Lamar, age 5. Sometime in the waning days of the 19th century, as the Texas &amp; Pacific railroad bonds were being converted into shares in the land trust, one of the stock certificates went missing. This was Certificate No. 390. In the ensuing decades, as its value ballooned, the missing certificate became the subject of several lawsuits on behalf of heirs of the long-defunct New York brokerage firm that had handled the transaction. As Max Hensley, president of the International Bond and Share Society, recounted in the journal Scripophily, the tale of the lost certificate became legendary. “The story appeared in Reader’s Digest and constituted a whole radio program by Art Linkletter,” he wrote. “Needless to say, all this pot stirring yielded a fine cornucopia of crackpots and delusional hopefuls.” Courts continually ruled in favor of the Trust, however, and for years the shares went unclaimed, and the annual dividends were placed in escrow. But in the mid 1970s, one Jack Lewin, a retired Chicago trade magazine editor with a penchant for digging through dusty library boxes to track down old stock certificates (for $15 apiece and a 30% cut of whatever proceeds he could recover), developed an obsessive interest in No. 390. It eventually turned up in the archives of the Wells Fargo Bank, where it had sat moldering for 75 years. The stock, it soon transpired, had been given to the Dutch mining industrialist Joseph Raphael De Lamar in consideration of a $15,000 loan he’d made to a man named Joseph Decker. Originally valued at $10,000, the certificate didn’t even cover the balance. De Lamar was an interesting character. Born in Holland, he stowed away on a merchant ship as a boy, eventually becoming a sea captain and making his first of several fortunes salvaging shipwrecks. In later years, he entered the mining business, but his use of cyanide to mine gold, although wildly effective, was also devastating to the health of his employees. Many of De Lamar’s miners lasted only a year on the job before succumbing to silicosis from the “Deadly Delamar Dust,” as it was called. According to historian Arthur H. Clark, as many as 500 men gave their lives to create De Lamar’s mining fortune. Wikipedia The Joseph Rafael De Lamar House in New York, now the Polish Consulate.Some of the fruits of that sacrifice can still be seen at 37th and Madison Avenue in New York, where De Lamar erected a Beaux-Arts mansion, one of the most opulent in the city, for his beloved daughter, Alice. It now serves as the Polish consulate. When Joseph died in 1918, leaving Alice half of his $20 million fortune, the society press was breathless with speculation about her romantic life. But Alice ditched the Madison Avenue residence, along with a palatial estate in Glen Cove, Long Island. She spurned her various aristocratic suitors and seemed embarrassed by her vast fortune (perhaps she had an inkling of where it came from), leading one newspaper to dub her “The Girl Who Can’t Get Away From Her Millions.” In later years, she became a patron of the arts and a friend to Ernest Hemingway, Paul Cadmus, Benny Goodman, Hubert de Givenchy, and many other of the day’s most prominent cultural figures. Eventually, Jack Lewin tracked her down in Palm Beach, where the 82-year-old society doyenne and gallery owner lived with her longtime lover, the actress and theater producer Eva Le Gallienne, in a Spanish-style beachfront estate. By then, Certificate No. 390 was worth $5.7 million (half of which went to charity, per Joseph’s wishes). For Alice, who had no surviving relatives, the unexpected windfall was most likely a meaningless addition to an accursed inheritance she never wanted in the first place. It's not known whether Lewin collected any of his anticipated 30% commission.   APAn oil jack pump sits near the Permian High School football stadium.The Permian Basin, a massive oil formation in West Texas and Southeastern New Mexico, was first drilled in the twenties, not long after Joseph De Lamar’s death. Before long, shares of TPL exploded, becoming for a time the highest priced securities listed on the NYSE. By 1983, the reserves were tapped out — or they might as well have been. There was more oil down there; nobody doubted that. But amid a worldwide glut, it was too hard to reach and too costly to mess with. Big oil producers packed up and made for greener pastures — the North Sea, the Gulf of Mexico, West Africa, South America. Pumps were capped, oilfield workers drifted into other lines of work, if they could find work at all, and former boom towns like Midland and Odessa took on a haunted cast, their rusting derricks standing as forlorn monuments to a swaggering era. For two decades, TPL stock never crept past $10.   Cruise down the once empty I-20 between Midland and Odessa today and — well, you can’t. The lines of wide-load semis and oil tankers, Mercedes GL-class SUVs, and jacked-up Denalis, stretch for miles. Traffic accidents are routine, with an average of one fatality per week. Housing is impossible to come by, unless you want to bunk in a “man camp.” Years after the members-only Petroleum Club became a hangout for old-timers reliving the glories of the the 1970s oil embargo, there’s now a wait for lunchtime tables. Per capita income in Midland is second in the nation. New “breastaurants” are opening their doors. Chalk it up to the development of hydraulic fracking and horizontal drilling. There are more rigs operating in the Permian Basin today than there were when J.R. Ewing took two bullets to the gut. By some estimates, as many as 70 billion barrels of oil are sitting down there, trapped between the layers of shale — more than they have in Kuwait. And Texas Pacific Land Trust still has the title to a great big chunk of it, and perpetual mineral rights to a good bit more. Which explains why its stock price is on such a steep uphill ride. So why hasn’t anyone heard of it? “That’s what I love about it,” Donald Hodges says. “It’s under the radar. If you asked 1,000 investors, I’d be surprised if 5 knew about it. It’s not a candidate for any investment banking. It doesn’t owe any money. It’s being ignored by the Wall Street industry.” “When the receptionist told me a journalist was calling,” Eric Marshall tells Business Insider, “I thought you might have the symbol wrong.” Ultimately, TPL is just too difficult to classify and too small for most portfolio managers to take notice of. It doesn’t appear on any stock index, and only 11,000 shares change hands per day on average. “You can find the most beautiful collector’s item in the world,” Louis Geser observes, “but if you’re a portfolio manager and you can’t take a meaningful position in it, why bother?” Of course, that still leaves plenty of room for individual investors. At this point, only one factor might emerge to slow TPL’s rise, and that’s this little thing called climate change. Whether the frackers will actually manage to blast all that oil out of the ground before carbon taxes and new regulations turn it into a “stranded asset” — or Elon Musk consigns Karl Benz’s combustion engine to the scrap yard of history — is a question that probably doesn’t get asked a lot around the Petroleum Club. Not that the possibility worries TPL’s fans. Land in Texas will always have some value. They’re not making any more of it, after all.   Read more of Business Insider's long-form features » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Valentyn OgirenkoA woman looks at a Ukrainian serviceman as he guards a checkpoint near the eastern Ukrainian town of Debaltseve on Wednesday.Stocks continue to have a rough month. And the July 24 high of 1,991 continues to drift away. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Thursday FREE AppDownload
The finance world's social network is getting some major upgrades. Ross Levinsohn is now on the board of Stocktwits, a social media platform for investors, traders, and entrepreneurs. He was previously the chief executive of Guggenheim Digital Media, the digital arm of private equity firm Guggenheim Partners.In 2012, he was the interim CEO at Yahoo. And prior to that role, he ran Yahoo's sales, business development, and media divisions. Stocktwits CEO, John Melloy, told BI: "I couldn't be happier to have a great media and tech mind like Ross join the board. After we met, he immediately saw the potential with our niche social network." Additionally, Robert Peck, a technology analyst at SunTrust, is also joining StockTwits. Melloy said that "With Ross and Bob, I have access to some of the best minds in this new media world we're entering." Melloy also told BI that in September, StockTwits is planning a "total redesign" of their website and mobile sites. Additionally, they have "a slew of new features coming" including "a google-like search function that will allow you to find a stream on any topic, person, stock or combination of the two". FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTo match Feature AUTOS/ENGINESDETROIT (Reuters) - General Motors Co  said Thursday it will show the next-generation of its slow-selling Chevrolet Volt hybrid electric car in January. Company officials did not disclose details on the pricing or driving range of the 2016 Volt, which will debut at the North American International Auto Show in Detroit. Supplier sources previously said the No. 1 U.S. automaker was planning to sell two versions of the 2016 plug-in electric car, including a lower-priced model with a smaller battery pack and shorter driving range. Last year, GM cut the Volt's price by $5,000 to help boost demand for the plug-in hybrid car in a segment where consumers do not pay much of a premium for the technology and are anxious about being stranded during a journey without power. The Volt also has a gasoline engine to address the latter concern. The current Volt is priced just under $35,000 and has a driving range of almost 40 miles on its electric charge, with 380 miles of total driving range. Nevertheless, sales so far this year through July fell almost 9 percent from a year earlier to 10,635 vehicles. The Cadillac version of the Volt, the ELR coupe, has also failed to catch on as GM has sold only 578 during the seven-month period. GM said the Volt would continue to be built at its Detroit Hamtramck assembly plant. In April, GM said it would spend almost $400 million to upgrade tooling and equipment at the plant for the next-generation Volt and two future products.  (Editing by Bernadette Baum) FREE AppDownload
The European Central Bank is building a new headquarters in Frankfurt, Germany, and some amazing graffiti art has been popping up at the construction site over the past two years.  The new building is expected to be fully completed by the end of 2014. During construction, the ECB is allowing artists to use the surrounding fence as a public art gallery. Many of the paintings are politically charged, making statements on capitalism, money, and public figures, including ECB President Mario Draghi and German Chancellor Angela Merkel.  Despite the negative depictions, the bank's response has been positive, the New Yorker reported in June. One mural of two fighting roosters was bought by the bank to hang in the new headquarters after completion. Reuters photographer Kai Pfaffenbach has documented the graffiti dating back to September 2012. Check out some of the photos below:                                      FREE AppDownload
Flickr/InfusionsoftPeter Drucker once observed that, "Much of what we call management consists of making it difficult for people to work."  Nine years after the management guru's death, his remark is truer than ever: employees often have to negotiate a mass of clutter — from bulging inboxes to endless meetings and long lists of objectives to box-tick — before they can focus on their real work.  For the past 50 years manufacturers have battled successfully to streamline their factory floors and make them "lean." Today, businesses of all types need to do the same in their offices. The most debilitating form of clutter is Organisational complexity. The Boston Consulting Group (BCG) has been tracking this for a representative sample of companies in the United States and Europe since 1955 (when the Fortune 500 list was created). BCG defines complexity broadly to include everything from tiers of management to the numbers of co-ordinating bodies and corporate objectives. It reckons that, overall, the complexity of organisations has increased sixfold since then. There has been an explosion of "performance imperatives": in 1955 firms typically embraced between four and seven of them; today, as they strain themselves to be kind to the environment, respectful of diversity, decent to their suppliers and the like, it is 25-40. A second form of clutter is meetings. Bain &amp; Company, another consulting firm, studied a sample of big firms, finding that their managers spent 15% of their time in meetings, a share that has risen every year since 2008. Many of these meetings have no clear purpose. The higher up you go, the worse it is. Senior executives spend two full days a week in meetings with three or more colleagues. In 22% of these meetings the participants sent three or more e-mails for every half an hour they spent sitting in the room. These e-mails constitute the third form of clutter. Bain estimates that the number of external communications that managers receive has increased from about 1,000 a year in 1970 to around 30,000 today. Every message imposes a "time tax" on the people at either end of it; and these taxes can spiral out of control unless they are managed. Some clutter is inevitable. The point of companies is to get people to achieve collectively what they cannot do individually, so some meetings and memos will be needed to co-ordinate them. Complexity may often be the price of success: companies that have grown to great size and operate in many markets face far more complicated problems than smaller ones operating on home turf. But Drucker was surely right that co-ordination has a tendency to degenerate into clutter. Meetings multiply. Managers build empires. And clutter feeds on itself. Bain calculates that adding a new mid-level manager creates enough work for half an assistant. Adding a new senior vice-president creates enough work for one and a half assistants. Clutter is taking a toll on both morale and productivity. Teresa Amabile of Harvard Business School studied the daily routines of more than 230 people who work on projects that require creativity. As might have been expected, she found that their ability to think creatively fell markedly if their working days were punctuated with meetings. They did far better if left to focus on their projects without interruption for a large chunk of the day, and had to collaborate with no more than one colleague. One solution to clutter is a periodic spring-cleaning to sweep it out. Big companies need to have campaigns against internal complexity: Jeffrey Immelt, General Electric's boss, is seeking to introduce a "culture of simplification", as part of a plan to cut the giant conglomerate's overheads from a peak of 18.5% of revenues in 2011 to 12% in 2016. Joe Kaeser, his counterpart at GE's archrival, Siemens, is abolishing a whole management tier and reducing the number of divisions below it. When Ford's previous boss, Alan Mulally, took over in 2006, he called for an audit of all its meetings. He replaced "meetings week" — five days each month in which executives held non-stop gatherings — with one tightly scheduled weekly meeting at which managers are under orders to cut the crap. Mr Mulally's successor, Mark Fields, had to prove himself first by chairing those meetings efficiently. Spring-cleaning needs to be reinforced by policies to stop clutter accumulating in the first place. Though it may seem obvious, Intel, a chipmaker, felt the need to impose a rule saying: no meetings without a clear purpose. Lenovo, a Chinese computer-maker, lets its staff halt meetings that are going off-track, in the same way as Toyota, a Japanese carmaker, gives production workers the power to stop assembly lines when they spot problems. Bain says a manufacturer it studied made savings equivalent to cutting 200 jobs by halving the default length of meetings to 30 minutes and limiting to seven the number of people who could attend. Some employers are seeking ways to let staff at least manage the clutter, if not reduce it. Intuit and Atlassian, two software firms, offer workers a regular quota of clutter-free time. Volkswagen has spared its German staff from having to read work e-mails after hours — and even BCG has introduced rules on when its consultants are entitled to go "offline" in the evenings. The best way to institutionalize decluttering is to force managers to justify any bureaucracy they introduce. Seagate Technology, a data-storage company, and Boeing, an aircraft-maker, both hold their executives accountable for the "organizational load" that they impose on their subordinates in terms of meetings, memos and initiatives, and measure them against their peers. As Bain points out, the most valuable resource that many companies have is the time of their employees. And yet they are typically far less professional about managing that time than they are at managing their financial assets. Click here to subscribe to The Economist.  FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Damian DovarganesU.S. Customs and Border Protection officer Paulo Zanetti, right, checks the interior of gas tanks, next to a 2010 Ferrari 458 Italia "supercar," one of 20 high-end stolen vehicles that were intercepted by U.S. Customs and Border Protection on their way to Hong Kong and Vietnam, at an evidence warehouse in Carson, California.U.S. car thefts have tumbled to around 700,000 a year from more than 1.6 million in 1991, but here are five cities where you still better remember to lock your vehicle's doors. "People shouldn't be inordinately worried about vehicle theft, but you can't be stupid, either," says Frank Scafidi of the National Insurance Crime Bureau, which recently released its 30th annual Hot Spots list of metro areas with the highest auto-theft rates. The NICB, which compiles statistics for the insurance industry, generates its annual list by analyzing an FBI database that police around the country use to report stolen vehicles. Metro areas at the top of this year's list had the highest number of auto thefts relative to population during 2013. California cities far and away lead the pack, accounting for all five communities at the head of the rundown and nine of the top 10. The state's Central Valley region, an area hard hit in recent years by foreclosures and high unemployment, does particularly "well" on the list. Scafidi, who's based in Sacramento, says California has traditionally had a big problem with auto thefts — partly because the Golden State has America's largest number of both cars and people. California's good weather also means cars tend to last longer there, giving the state a larger share of older vehicles that lack today's anti-theft devices, Scafidi says. Add a large drug problem and easy access to Mexico for thieves who want to export stolen vehicles south of the border and you've got all of the ingredients for car-crook heaven. "We're seeing less than half of the number of auto thefts that we were 20 years ago, and that's a heck of an improvement — unless you're one of the people whose car gets stolen," Scafidi says. Read on to check out the communities the NICB found have America's highest per-capita vehicle-theft theft rate among the country's 380 major metropolitan areas. All car-theft figures refer to 2013 FBI statistics for metropolitan areas as a whole, not just to incidents that occur within city limits. Jobless figures likewise refer to metro areas as a whole and reflect U.S. Labor Department non-seasonally-adjusted numbers for June, the most recent month with data available. Per-capita property- and violent-crime statistics apply to just cities proper (not entire metro areas) and reflect aNeighborhoodScout.com analysis of 2012 FBI data, the latest year with final figures available. Be sure to take stock of your surroundings if you park in Stockton, as this struggling community some 80 miles northeast of San Francisco saw more than 4,000 auto thefts last year. That's 633.61 stolen cars for every 100,000 Stockton/Lodi area residents — little surprise given the hard times that the community is facing. One of the cities hardest hit by the U.S. housing bust, Stockton saw its municipal government file for bankruptcy in 2008 after home values plummeted and foreclosures soared. That sent property-tax collections plunging and the local jobless rate as high as 18.7%, prompting lots of veteran police officers to find work elsewhere as the local government cut back. The city has since hired some younger cops, but NeighborhoodScout recently ranked Stockton as America's 19th most dangerous community. Timemagazine even dubbed the place "America's Most Miserable City" in an article that noted its reporter had her purse stolen while in town. You can leave your heart in San Francisco, just  That's because the Bay Area saw 29,326 car thefts in 2013, or 649.34 for every 100,000 residents. Scafidi says that while San Francisco proper has a strong economy that usually translates into lower crime, other parts of the metro area aren't so lucky. "You have to remember that the San Francisco metro area isn't just San Francisco, it's also places like Hayward and Oakland," he says. "And Oakland isn't exactly known as a quiet bedroom community." Located across the San Francisco Bay from San Francisco proper, Oakland ranks No. 9 in NeighborhoodScout's list of America's most dangerous cities. About the only good news for Modesto is that the community has dropped to No. 3 on the latest Hot Spots list from first place in last year's rankings (which reflected 2012 car-theft levels). The NICB found that Modesto had 3,565 vehicles stolen last year, or 678.41 for every 100,000 residents. Situated some 90 miles east of San Francisco, the community suffers from high crime and an 11.1% jobless rate. Modesto also has per-capita violent- and property-crime rates that run roughly twice the national average. The Central Valley's largest community has one of America's highest car-theft rates. Located some 190 miles southeast of San Francisco, Fresno had 6,750 vehicles stolen last year, or 706.91 for every 100,000 residents. Like other Central Valley communities on the NICB list, Fresno has lots of unemployment and crime. The community has 10.4% joblessness, while its property-crime rate is 83% above the U.S. average and violent-crime levels are 41% higher than the norm. It takes a lot more than a baker's dozen of stolen cars to top the NICB's Hot Spots list, but Bakersfield more than fits the bill. The Central Valley community saw 6,267 vehicle thefts last year, which translates into 725.24 incidents for every 100,000 residents — the highest rate for any U.S. metro area. Bakersfield, which is some 110 miles northwest of Los Angeles, faces many of the same problems that other communities on the Hot Spots rundown suffer from.Although its economy is slowly improving, joblessness remains at 10.2% after peaking at 17.9% in March 2010. At the same time, Bakersfield's property-crime rate is 75% above the U.S. average, while violent-crime levels are 39% above than what's usual for a city its size. FREE AppDownload
Brooklyn TailorsEvery man should own a navy blazer. It’s a closet staple that goes with absolutely everything. The problem is that some men just don’t know how to style one, and stick to pairing their blazer with a boring white button down and khakis. But a navy blazer can be so much more.  We reached out to the senior stylists at Bombfell, a monthly personalized clothing subscription site, to help us put together four looks that all centered around a Brooklyn Tailors Italian navy wool jacket (above). Keep reading to see the outfits, how to wear them, and where to buy them. (Shirt: Z Zenga Poplin Shirt, $281; Tie: Gitman Brothers Silk Tie, $115; Pants: Brooklyn Tailors Navy Trousers, $285; Suspenders: Ben Sherman Classic Braces, $25; Tie Clip: In God We Trust Rifle Tie Clip, $50; Shoes: To Boot New York Medford, $395; Belt: Coach Dress Weston Reversible Belt, $148) Dubbed “The Rainmaker” by Bombfell stylists, this outfit is a must-have for every businessman. The coordinating trousers* turn the blazer into a full suit, and the crisp white shirt and dress belt are classic pieces. To amp up the look, the stylists added suspenders, a striped power tie, gold tie bar, and trendy double buckle shoes. Wear this for big meetings, weddings, and days when you just want to feel powerful. (*Tip: When you buy a navy blazer, buy the matching dress pants that go with it — no other navy dress pants will match as well, and you should only pair these with your blazer.) (T-shirt: Velvet by Graham &amp; Spencer Whisper Tee, $59; Jeans: dl1961 Russell Tribute Jean, $168; Flask: Izola Salut! Flask, $24; Shoes: Tods Gommino Driving Shoes, $425; Belt: Maker &amp; Company Crios Washed Cotton Belt, $38) If you work in a startup environment but have a meeting with a client or investor, try your signature work uniform (comfy jeans, t-shirt) topped with a navy blazer. The Bombfell stylists added driving shoes — not sneakers — to make the outfit feel more grown-up and threw in a belt for a pop of color. They also told us if you were going for a “happy hour comfort” vibe, you could bring along a fun flask in your lapel pocket.  If it’s cold, add a hoodie under the blazer for a comfortable, relaxed look.  This look is also tailor-made for dates, parties, and anywhere you want to look great, but still dressed down. (Shirt: Ben Sherman Gingham Long Sleeve Shirt, $84; Chinos: Corbin Retro-Fit Trousers, $164; Watch: Timex Weekender Watch, $33; Shoes: Sperry Top-Sider Boat Shoes, $150; Belt: L.L.Bean Braided Leather Belt, $45) If your office is into Casual Fridays, throw on a relaxed button down and chinos topped with a blazer. You’ll feel comfortable all day, and will still look office appropriate. The braided leather belt, boat shoes, and weekender watch the stylists included are casual enough without making you look like you didn’t try at all. This outfit will also serve if you’re meeting the parents or attending a work BBQ — casual, professional, and put-together. (Shirt: French Connection Plain Polo, $48; Shorts: Johnnie-O Poplin Shorts, $54; Sunglasses: Persol Round-Frame Sunglasses, $310; Shoes: Converse Jack Purcell Leather, $70; Belt: J. Campbell Suede Belt, $89) This “lunching at the club” look may be too preppy for some readers, but it shows how versatile the navy blazer truly is. This dressed-up day outfit includes a crisp polo tee, colorful shorts, white sneakers, sunglasses, and a navy suede belt. And for those wondering if you can wear shorts with a blazer, yes you can — the short suit is back in style, and has always been a go-to country club look.  For the gentleman who also enjoys a round of squash, this is the outfit for you. -Never wear clashing navy pants with your navy blazer. If you're going to wear navy pants, make sure they are the same brand and color as your jacket. -Do play with different colored bottoms, as long as they're not navy or black (you'll look like you're wearing a mismatched dark suit). Light khaki, olive green, gray, brown, or even light blue trousers will look professional if styled correctly. -Any color dress shoes go well with navy, from black to Merlot.  -Be creative with the color of your shirt. We chose white or neutral colored shirts for these outfits, but aside from aa= navy or black shirt, almost any contrasting color (or pattern!) will do. -Always, always, always get your jacket tailored. Otherwise, what's the point? FREE AppDownload
Isaac Mao/flickrStratasys shares were up as much as 19% Thursday after the 3-D printing company reported a 67% jump in quarterly revenue. The Minnesota- and Israeli-based firm reported a net loss of $173,000, or break even on a per share basis, in the second quarter, compared with a loss of $2.8 million, or 7 cents per share, a year earlier, Reuters said. Net revenue rose to $178.5 million from $106.5 million, Reuters said. "We continue to observe strong positive sales momentum for our higher-performance systems and materials, which is reflected in the impressive 35% organic revenue growth we generated during the second quarter," said David Reis, chief executive officer of Stratasys, in the firm's release. Rival 3D Systems is riding Stratasys' momentum and is up nearly 4%. Full earnings release here and below:  Company reports $178.5 million in revenue, including 35% organic revenue growth over the same period last year MakerBot contributes $33.6 million in revenue Company reports non-GAAP net income growth of 51% over the same period last year to $28.0 million, or $0.55 per diluted share; GAAP net loss was $173,000, or ($0.00) per basic share Company raises 2014 financial guidance and updates long-term operating model to reflect favorable business environment and impact of recent acquisitions MINNEAPOLIS &amp; REHOVOT, Israel--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Stratasys Ltd. (NASDAQ:SSYS) today announced record second quarter financial results. Total revenue for the second quarter of 2014 was $178.5 million, an increase of 67% compared to the same period last year; or an increase of 35% when excluding the impact of acquisitions. Non-GAAP net income for the second quarter increased by 51% over the same period last year to $28.0 million, or $0.55 per diluted share. GAAP net loss for the period was $173,000, or ($0.00) per basic share. MakerBot branded products and services contributed $33.6 million to second quarter revenue, driven by channel expansion initiatives and the successful introductions of new products within the rapidly expanding segment for desktop 3D printers. The company raised its financial guidance for fiscal 2014 to account for an improved outlook for the remainder of the year, as well as to account for the recent acquisitions of Solid Concepts and Harvest Technologies. The company raised its organic revenue growth forecast for 2014 to at least 30%, versus a previous forecast of at least 25%. Revenue guidance for 2014 increased to $750 - $770 million; versus previous guidance of $660 - $680 million. Non-GAAP net income guidance increased to $2.25 - $2.35 per diluted share, versus previous guidance of $2.15 - $2.25 per diluted share. The company also updated its long-term operating model, which included raising its long-term annual organic revenue growth forecast to at least 25%, versus previous guidance of at least 20%. In the second quarter the company announced agreements to acquire Solid Concepts and Harvest Technologies, which will be combined with RedEye, its existing digital manufacturing service business, to establish a single additive manufacturing services business unit. Both transactions closed in the third quarter, prior to the date of this release. Q2-2014 Financial Results Summary: "We continue to observe strong positive sales momentum for our higher-performance systems and materials, which is reflected in the impressive 35% organic revenue growth we generated during the second quarter," said David Reis, chief executive officer of Stratasys. "Equally impressive were the sales of MakerBot products and services, which contributed $33.6 million of revenue during the period, driven by our expanding distribution network and the successful launch of three MakerBot branded 3D printers in the first half of the year. We are very pleased with our second quarter results, which represent quarterly records in revenue, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP earnings per share." Recent Business Highlights: "We expect our positive momentum to continue as we begin the second half of 2014," continued Reis. "Reflecting our favorable outlook, we are increasing our projection for organic revenue growth in 2014 to at least 30%, and we are raising our financial guidance accordingly. In addition, we are adjusting our outlook to account for the recent acquisitions of Solid Concepts and Harvest Technologies, acquisitions that we now believe will be modestly accretive to non-GAAP earnings per share in 2014. Longer term, we believe these acquisitions will enable us to better serve our customers, ultimately providing synergies for our combined organization. We are excited about our many opportunities, and believe we are well positioned within our rapidly growing industry." Financial Guidance: Stratasys updated the following information regarding the company's projected revenue and net income for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2014: GAAP financial guidance is not provided in this release given the initial accounting for the business combination of Solid Concepts and Harvest Technologies is incomplete, thus making the supplemental information required to calculate GAAP earnings unavailable. GAAP financial guidance will be calculated and communicated upon the completion of that analysis. Stratasys updated the following information regarding the company's long-term operating model: Stratasys provided the following additional information regarding the company's performance and strategic plans for 2014: Appropriate reconciliations between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures are provided in a table at the end of this press release. The table provides itemized detail of the non-GAAP financial measures. Stratasys Ltd. Q2-2014 Conference Call Details Stratasys will hold a conference call to discuss its second quarter financial results on Thursday, August 7, 2014 at 8:30 a.m. (ET). The investor conference call will be available via live webcast on the Stratasys Web site at www.stratasys.com under the "Investors" tab; or directly at the following web address: http://www.media-server.com/m/p/aeagor6k. To participate by telephone, the domestic dial-in number is 877-415-3180 and the international dial-in is 857-244-7323. The access code is 84391755. Investors are advised to dial into the call at least ten minutes prior to the call to register. The webcast will be available for 90 days on the "Investors" page of the Stratasys Web site or by accessing the provided web address. Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements Certain information included or incorporated by reference in this press may be deemed to be "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements are often characterized by the use of forward-looking terminology such as "may," "will," "expect," "anticipate," "estimate," "continue," "believe," "should," "intend," "project" or other similar words, but are not the only way these statements are identified. These forward-looking statements may include, but are not limited to, statements relating to the company's objectives, plans and strategies, statements that contain projections of results of operations or of financial condition (including, with respect to acquisitions) and all statements (other than statements of historical facts) that address activities, events or developments that the company intends, expects, projects, believes or anticipates will or may occur in the future. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks and uncertainties. The company has based these forward-looking statements on assumptions and assessments made by its management in light of their experience and their perception of historical trends, current conditions, expected future developments and other factors they believe to be appropriate. Important factors that could cause actual results, developments and business decisions to differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements include, among other things: the company's ability to efficiently and successfully integrate the operations of Stratasys, Inc. and Objet Ltd. after their merger as well as MakerBot, Solid Concepts, and Harvest Technologies after their acquisitions and to successfully put in place and execute an effective post-merger integration plans; the overall global economic environment; the impact of competition and new technologies; general market, political and economic conditions in the countries in which the company operates; projected capital expenditures and liquidity; changes in the company's strategy; government regulations and approvals; changes in customers' budgeting priorities; litigation and regulatory proceedings; and those factors referred to under "Risk Factors", "Information on the Company", "Operating and Financial Review and Prospects", and generally in the company's annual report on Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2013 filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), in the "Risk Factors" attached as Exhibit 99.3 to the Report of Foreign Private Issuer on Form 6-K furnished by the company to the SEC on the date hereof, and in other reports that the company has furnished to, or filed with the SEC. Readers are urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures made in the company's SEC reports, which are designed to advise interested parties of the risks and factors that may affect its business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Any forward-looking statements in this press release are made as of the date hereof, and the company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. Non-GAAP Discussion Disclosure The information discussed within this release includes financial results and projections that are in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). In addition, certain non-GAAP financial measures have been provided excluding certain charges, expenses and income. The non-GAAP measures should be read in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures and should be considered in addition to, and not as an alternative or substitute for, the measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. The non-GAAP financial measures are included in an effort to provide information that investors may deem relevant to evaluate results from the company's core business operations and to compare the company's performance with prior periods. The non-GAAP financial measures primarily identify and exclude certain discrete items, such as merger-related expenses, amortization expenses and expenses associated with share-based compensation required under ASC 718. The company uses these non-GAAP financial measures for evaluating comparable financial performance against prior periods. This release is available on the Stratasys web site at www.stratasys.com Stratasys Ltd. (Nasdaq:SSYS), headquartered in Minneapolis, Minnesota and Rehovot, Israel, is a leading global provider of 3D printing and additive and additive manufacturing solutions. The company's patented FDM®, PolyJet™ and WDM™ 3D Printing technologies produce prototypes and manufactured goods directly from 3D CAD files or other 3D content. Systems include 3D printers for idea development, prototyping and direct digital manufacturing. Stratasys subsidiaries include MakerBot and Solidscape, and the company operates a digital-manufacturing service comprising RedEye, Solid Concepts and Harvest Technologies. Stratasys has more than 2,500 employees, holds over 560 granted or pending additive manufacturing patents globally, and has received more than 25 awards for its technology and leadership. Online at: www.stratasys.com orhttp://blog.stratasys.com. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
mightykenny/flickrFacebook's own customers rank it as the worst among all social media sites, a category that sits near the bottom in the latest American Customer Satisfaction Index survey, or ASCI. That reported lack of customer satisfaction did not stop the social media giant from posting record revenue and huge gains in users in the recent quarter. People may not like Facebook, but more of them are using it -- and more advertisers are spending money on the platform. It's possible, however, that poor perception will catch up to the company and hurt its business. Facebook has become something like a busy public highway -- everyone has to use it, but if an alternative emerged, many might be quick to change. Overall customer satisfaction with social media, search engines, and online news and opinion websites climbed by 2.9%, to 73.4 on ACSI's 100-point scale. Split out social media, however, and the number drops to 71. That's up 4.4% but still leaves social media as the fourth-lowest-scoring category tracked by ACSI. Only airlines (69), subscription TV (65), and Internet service providers (63) fared worse. Facebook did climb 8%, but its score of a 67 was well below the category average for social sites. The company may also be in for a big fall, as its improved numbers are from before news that the social networking giant manipulated the news feeds of a half-million users as part of a psychological experiment. ACSI believes that efforts to monetize -- which Facebook has done extremely well -- may also lead to customer dissatisfaction.  "Advertising continues to be a drag on the social media customer experience, but it is hard to tell if consumers are getting used to the advertising or if these companies have been able to offset disruption with tweaks to the rest of the experience," says ACSI Director David VanAmburg. "I'm surprised at the movement at the bottom of the industry, but it remains to be seen if these scores can hold as social media continues to monetize its users." That idea is backed up by the fact that the top-rated social media company, Pinterest, which has an ACSI of 76, has just started to monetize. The presence of ads is still very subtle on the site. People may not love Facebook, but that hasn't stopped them from using it. During the second quarter, the site reported a 19% increase in daily active users, to an average of 829 million, from the same period last year. The company also saw a 39% rise in mobile daily active users, as well as a 14% increase in monthly active users, and a 31% spike in mobile monthly active users.  "We had a good second quarter," CEO Mark Zuckerberg said. "Our community has continued to grow, and we see a lot of opportunity ahead as we connect the rest of the world." In addition to growing its audience, Facebook also grew its revenue to $2.91 billion for the quarter, an increase of 61% over the $1.81 billion recorded in the second quarter of 2013. Revenue from advertising was $2.68 billion, a 67% increase from the same quarter last year. Mobile advertising revenue accounted for approximately 62% of advertising revenue for the period, up from approximately 41% in the second quarter of 2013. It's hard to see how Facebook has been hurt in the short term by customers being less than satisfied with its product. When a company becomes as ubiquitous as Facebook, a backlash is inevitable. The social media site, which was once just for the cool kids, has now become the place your parents and grandparents hang out. That has not yet caused younger, hipper users to flee the site, partly because there is no real alternative. You may not want to be on Facebook, but it has become ingrained in our society that if you stop using it, you will miss out on things like high school reunions, birth announcements, and even deaths. The challenge for Facebook is not whether it stays popular while it's the only game in town, but what it would do if a real alternative arises. The reality is that while users love to grumble about every change made by Zuckerberg and his team, the social media giant is not actually disliked. People have negative feelings about cable companies and ISPs because they offer poor service, high prices, and a bad attitude. Facebook is almost never down, remains free, and provides a useful service.   Cable companies and ISPs are the crazy girlfriends/boyfriends we break up with as soon as we can figure out how to do so without them boiling our proverbial bunny. Facebook is the long-term spouse we've grown familiar and comfortable with but don't always have something to say to.  Should Google find a way to offer nationwide Internet service, it would likely devastate the traditional ISPs. Facebook is as vulnerable to competition as any company, but people aren't looking to leave, and any competitor that hits a certain scale would likely face similar satisfaction issues.  Facebook is like McDonald's -- the place everyone pretends they don't go, even though they're secretly sneaking Big Macs ... probably while typing in Facebook status updates.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFannie Mae headquarters building is seen in WashingtonWASHINGTON (Reuters) - Government-controlled mortgage finance firms Fannie Mae &lt;fnma.ob&gt; and Freddie Mac &lt;fmcc.ob&gt; said on Thursday they will pay U.S. taxpayers a combined $5.6 billion in dividends after another profitable quarter. Once they make their latest payments in September, they will have returned $218.7 billion to taxpayers in return for the $187.5 billion in aid they received after being placed under the government's wing at the height of the financial crisis. The two companies, which buy mortgages from lenders and repackage them into securities they sell to investors with a guarantee, were seized by the U.S. government in 2008 as they teetered on the brink of insolvency. Under their bailout terms, the firms turn their profits over to the Treasury as dividends on the government's controlling stake. Fannie Mae, the nation's largest source of mortgage funds, earned a $3.7 billion profit between April and June and will turn it over as its dividend payment. Freddie Mac, the No. 2 mortgage provider, will pay the Treasury $1.9 billion. Shares for the two companies edged higher. The dividends had swelled in recent quarters as the companies received funds from legal settlements and booked big profits on accounting gains from the recognition of deferred tax assets. Fannie Mae's profits - and its dividend payment - were lower than in the first quarter largely because of a reduction in settlement payments. Freddie Mac reported $400 million in settlements in the second quarter, which was just a sliver of what it took in the first quarter. The regulator for the two firms had sued 18 financial institutions for allegedly misleading Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac about the soundness of mortgages that underlay securities they sold. Both the settlements and the tax matters appear to be largely behind, Fannie Mae Chief Executive Tim Mayopoulos said on a conference call with reporters. In a positive sign for future profits, Fannie Mae said rising home prices had helped its bottom line. "This quarter gives you a good sense of a normalized environment," he said. The U.S. housing market slowed sharply in 2013 after mortgage rates rose, but home resales have been rebounding since early this year. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have been a minor cash cow for the Treasury in recent years, paying back all their bailout funds and more. But their obligation to turn over all their profits to the Treasury has helped keep them undercapitalized, analysts say, and a severe downturn in the housing market could eventually lead them to require further bailouts. The Obama administration has argued for replacing Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac with a new entity, but lawmakers appears unlikely to address housing reform until at least after congressional elections in November - and any reform effort would likely be a multi-year task. Republicans want to see less government support of mortgages, while some Democrats argue low-income borrowers should get more support. Private shareholders in Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have sued the government over the dividend policy, claiming Washington is expropriating the value of their preferred shares. The litigation, currently in pre-trial phases, is expected to drag on for years.   (Reporting by Jason Lange; Editing by Andrea Ricci) FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Florian PilzIs an MBA that costs two years of your life and $150,000 really worth it? With increasing global competition and a tough job market, business school may hold the key to getting ahead — if you go to the right one. For our fifth annual survey of the World's Best Business Schools, we asked thousands of professionals from around the world who have experience hiring MBAs to determine the best business school. They came back with a clear favorite: Harvard University. Survey participants rated the reputation of the graduates from top business schools around the world on a scale of poor to excellent (1 to 5), with excellent ratings used as a tiebreaker. We included responses only from professionals who said they had experience hiring MBAs at least half the time, as well as other filters to optimize our survey pool. Click here to see a full analysis of the survey results &gt; Click here to see a map showing the top 25 schools &gt; In addition to the usual top American schools, international institutions like the London School of Economics (#8), London Business School (#9), Oxford (#13), and INSEAD (#15) placed in the top 15. FREE AppDownload
There are five points Draghi reiterated: 1.  The recovery is fragile, moderate and uneven 2.  The risks, aggravated by geopolitics and the the sluggishness of structural reforms, are on the downside.  Growth momentum appears to have slowed.  3.  Medium and long-term inflation expectations are anchored 4.  The TLTROS will help facilitate more lending and the ECB expects a sizable participation 5.  Credit standards remain relatively tight, but some loan segments show increase demand We do not know anything from Draghi we did not know already.  The PMI data have warned the growth momentum has slowed. The Bundesbank itself cautioned that the German economy may have stagnated in Q2.  The Italian economy contracted in Q2 for the second consecutive quarter.  Its minor gain of 0.1% in Q4 13 was the only positive growth recorded since Q2 2011.   Draghi's assessment that the medium and long-term inflation expectations are anchored likely refers to the ECB's staff expectations, which have persistently been greater than what materialized.  Indeed there is some risk the staff will reduce its inflation forecast again from the 0.5% rate projected in June.    Draghi reiterated that the ECB's preparations for an asset backed securities purchase program are being expedited.  A consultant is about to be hired to help design the program.  He also expressed confidence of strong participation in the TLTRO.  He suggested the market was looking at 450-850 bln euro take down, which would largely replace the net LTROs (some of the demand for which was from facilities that already existed at the time).          Read more posts on Marc to Market » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Sergei KarpukhinUkrainian President Viktor Yanukovich (L) gives a wink to his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin during a signing ceremony after a meeting of the Russian-Ukrainian Interstate Commission at the Kremlin in Moscow, December 17, 2013.KIEV (Reuters) - Late last year, Ukraine’s consumer protection agency began filing lawsuits against Foxtrot, the country’s largest electronics retailer. By early March, Foxtrot faced at least 231 separate suits that demanded fines totaling more than $150 million. Many of the suits accused the company of minor violations of Ukraine’s labeling law – such as not placing a "quality seal" on tiny memory cards and wafer-thin batteries inside mobile phones. Foxtrot said it placed the seals on the external packaging, which the law also allows. Viacheslav Povrokznick, Foxtrot’s CEO, said agency officials proposed a deal – pay $1 million in cash and the lawsuits would disappear. "We said no," he said. "It was like a kind of extortion." Today, the company still faces a mountain of litigation. Six months after a popular uprising toppled President Viktor Yanukovich, Ukraine’s new leaders are fighting wars on two fronts. One struggle is against Russian-backed insurgents in the east. The other is against staggering corruption that top officials say infected every level of government - and continues to this day. "It is hard to name an agency that was not involved in any of the scams," said Vitaliy Kasko, a deputy prosecutor general who is trying to recover billions of dollars in assets allegedly stolen and stashed overseas. Prosecutors say they believe that Yanukovich and a circle of associates stole vast sums of government money and profited from illicit schemes. Last week, the prosecutor's office detained a deputy head of the central bank on suspicion of involvement in the theft of more than $170 million in state funds. Corruption has plagued Ukraine since the country gained independence from the Soviet Union in 1991. But under Yanukovich, it grew far worse. The sheer scale of the graft – involving tax evasion, fraudulent value-added tax claims, bribery and extortion – helped set off the chain of events that has embroiled Ukraine in a separatist war. A Reuters examination of the rampant tax and extortion rackets finds that the toll on the Ukrainian treasury was so great that the state was mortally weakened, leaving it at the mercy of outside powers. Top government officials told Reuters that by the time Yanukovich fled to Russia in February after four years in power, Ukraine was bankrupt. That is why the country sought and took a $17 billion bailout this year from the International Monetary Fund. Igor Bilous, a former investment banker who now heads Ukraine’s tax agency, said in an interview that the government lost between $6 billion and $9 billion last year through just one scheme - a complex "tax minimization" racket that had the tax office’s blessing. Where did the money go? "In pockets, obviously," Bilous said. "I don’t think much can be recovered. A lot was taken out of the country … in dollars and gold." The looting ultimately backfired on Yanukovich, helping to set in motion his downfall. Last year, desperately needing billions of dollars in assistance to replenish the treasury, his government first looked to the European Union for help. Yanukovich initially supported an association agreement with the EU that would have opened a path to European aid and closer ties to the West. Instead, the pro-Russian politician decided to abandon the agreement and sign a treaty with Moscow to provide monetary aid. That about-face sparked the popular revolt led by pro-Western protesters who occupied the capital’s Independence Square, known locally as the Maidan, culminating in deadly clashes that ultimately led Yanukovich to flee to Russia. The reverberations are still being felt: Russian President Vladimir Putin annexed Ukraine’s Crimean peninsula, and pro-Russian separatists are fighting to hold territory they’ve seized in eastern Ukraine. On Wednesday, NATO warned that Moscow had massed 20,000 troops on the border and could be poised to send them across. Yanukovich did not pioneer Ukrainian graft. Prior presidents, too, have been accused of corruption. Instead, according to business executives, government officials and independent watchdog groups, his administration and associates took control of, systematized and expanded various schemes that had existed on a smaller scale for years. "The current situation with corruption is rooted in Soviet times," said Andrei Marusov, chairman of the board of Transparency International Ukraine, an anti-corruption organization. "What happened under Yanukovich was the centralization of corruption.… Everything went through this centralized hierarchy of state governance, by steps, by layers, from town, to municipality, then regional, then the ministry and then up to the president." Yanukovich – who entered office vowing to fight corruption - could not be reached for comment. Oleksandr Klymenko, who was head of the tax authority under Yanukovich, said in a statement to Reuters: "It is shameful and just plain wrong that some of my country's new crowd of bureaucrats are so desperate to distract the public from the alarming economic conditions which they should be working hard to solve (as I did my best to do), that they duplicitously try to explain their own failures by casting blame on my popular successes by fabricating groundless charges." Tomas Fiala, president of the 900-member European Business Association, said many companies were targeted by corrupt officials and had little choice but to participate in tax avoidance and other illicit schemes just to conduct ordinary business. "Definitely more than half of the companies working in Ukraine overall were forced to pay bribes," he said. About 100 of the EBA’s members currently face criminal cases against executives alleging tax evasion, according to its executive director, Anna Derevyanko. For French food group Danone SA, troubles began with Ukraine’s tax authorities in 2011, the year after Yanukovich took office. Dario Marchetti, Danone Dairy Ukraine’s general manager at the time, said the subsidiary had agreed to pay a local tax on royalties it was paying the parent company to license its dairy products. But after paying the tax to the tax office, Danone Ukraine was audited by Ukraine’s customs office. According to Marchetti, customs authorities determined the tax was owed to customs, not the tax office, and the company was required to pay the tax again – plus a penalty for non-compliance. The amount demanded by customs came to about $725,000, he said. Worse, the tax office refused to refund Danone’s previous payment of more than $500,000. "I personally went to the guys investigating us, and they said, ‘Look, we have a target, and you have two options. You can pay us either 20 or 30 percent of what is owed, or we will go after you.’" Marchetti said Danone rejected the demand – which it considered a bribe. He said Ukrainian authorities then filed a criminal complaint against Danone Ukraine’s chief accountant, a single mother with two children, accusing her of participating in tax evasion. "They use that as blackmail," he said. "In the end, we ended up paying customs, we ended up paying twice just to save our employee," said Marchetti, who is now general manager at Danone Dairy Brazil. "For a business that went through the 2009 crisis and had low margins, this was a huge hit." Mikhailo Noniak, deputy minister for revenue and duties at Ukraine’s tax agency, said of Danone’s past problems: "This doesn't happen now, but it happened very often before. Tax police, tax inspectors would start checks, investigations, they would go after firms like Danone, they would try to find something, and say something they had done did not correspond to the law. "To be honest," Noniak said, "at most firms they could find something that did not meet the legal requirements, and they would do the checks and they would either demand a fine, or open a criminal case, and then they would say, ‘We will not launch a case if you pay.’" Businesses such as electronics retailer Foxtrot say Ukraine’s consumer protection agency employed similar tactics. Nestle SA’s local subsidiary, Nestle Ukraine LLC, had a run-in about three years ago with the consumer protection agency. Gennadiy Radchenko, local head of corporate communication and corporate affairs for the Swiss food titan, said the agency halted the sale of 50-gram packages of Nescafe in southern Ukraine. It claimed the product had a bad smell. He said the allegation made no sense, since the agency found no problem with 100-gram packages of Nescafe, even though the coffee came from the same factory in Brazil. "How could one package be bad and another good?" Radchenko asked. "It’s clear they wanted a bribe." Nestle declined to enter discussions and filed a lawsuit against the agency, he said. The company initially lost the case but eventually won on appeal, a process that lasted two to three months, he said. Radchenko said Nestle’s experience was not at all unusual in Ukraine. "This is routine," he said. In a statement to Reuters, Olha Sokolova, the consumer agency’s recently appointed acting head and previously its deputy chief, said she had no information on Radchenko’s allegations. Separately, she defended the agency’s legal actions against Foxtrot, and said she had no information about the retailer’s charge that officials tried to extort bribes. According to the tax agency and interviews with business people, officials from other government offices frequently shook down companies. The government has 70 different bodies with licensing authority, including 40 with the power to shut down a business, the tax agency said. Said Danone’s Marchetti: "It was so hard to get an export license without paying bribes that I had to give up exporting." Government officials partly attribute the widespread bribery in Ukraine to the low salaries paid to civil servants. The average pay for tax inspectors, for example, is about $145 a month, according to the tax agency. The head of a regional state tax office earns about $350 a month. "Bribes are how you make your ends meet," said Jorge Zukoski, who headed the American Chamber of Commerce in Ukraine for 15 years until stepping down in January. "Your government paycheck does not put food on the table. It’s not a living wage." In the private sector, many Ukrainian businesses pay their employees partly in cash – known as "black" salaries - to avoid social-security contributions that average about 38 percent. The government loses additional revenue because employees typically do not pay income tax on the secret cash portion of their salary. "Many analysts single out the payroll tax as being exceptionally high and the main reason why shadow wage payments remain common in Ukraine," the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative stated in a 2012 report. The social-security tax for employers in Ukraine is more than 2.5 times the average paid by companies in the 34-nation Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development. The practice of paying "black salaries" continues today. "I know our local competitors are paying in cash in envelopes," Nestle Ukraine’s Radchenko said. "I know from people in interviews who want to be employed by Nestle." Tax authorities estimate that cash payments for salaries total about $17 billion a year, resulting in at least two million workers not appearing on tax rolls. Another five million employees report earning salaries that are below minimum wage, which authorities say is a sign they are paid partly in cash. In all, more than a third of Ukrainian workers are believed to receive "black" salaries. To run this dodge, many businesses used so-called cashing services, which offered - for a fee of about 8 percent to 12 percent - to provide banknotes to pay "black" salaries and bribes, according to the tax agency. Tax officials say that during Yanukovich’s administration, there were between six and nine "certified" cashing services that received the agency’s blessing. There were also another 100 to 120 "transit companies" used in the fraud to disguise transactions. The officials declined to name any of the companies or the people involved, but said more than 100 tax agency employees were directly involved in the schemes. In exchange for fees, the cashing services provided businesses not just with bank notes, but also phony invoices showing purchases of goods that never took place. Businesses used these fake expenses to reduce their reportable profits and save on corporate income tax, tax officials say. Many companies also used the fake purchases to reduce the value-added taxes they owed to the government by falsely claiming that they had paid VAT on goods they never really bought. For years, hundreds of firms offered such illicit services. But tax agency officials say that in 2012 and 2013, Yanukovich officials began pressuring companies to use the half-dozen or so "certified" or "state program" firms. Tens of billions of dollars passed through these firms, tax authorities say. The biggest loss to the government was VAT revenue, a 20% tax on goods and services that normally provides more than half the funding of Ukraine’s budget, according to tax agency officials. They estimate the treasury last year lost a quarter of its expected VAT revenue through government-sponsored fraudulent schemes. Ukraine’s treasury was so depleted that in recent years, companies with legitimate claims for VAT refunds often couldn’t receive them. Volodymyr Klymenko, president of the Ukrainian Grain Association, whose 40 members account for about 90 percent of the country’s grain exports, said that about 15 years ago, officials typically would ask for a cut of one or two percent of VAT refunds. The kickback demands later rose dramatically, he said. In December, a Ukrainian subsidiary of U.S.-based agribusiness group Archer Daniels Midland Co pleaded guilty in U.S. District Court in Illinois to charges that between 2002 and 2008, it paid about $22 million in bribes to Ukrainian officials through vendors to obtain more than $100 million in legitimate VAT refunds. The improper payments, falsely recorded as insurance premiums or other business expenses, "were generally 18 percent to 20 percent of the corresponding VAT refunds," according to a lawsuit by the Securities and Exchange Commission. ADM and its subsidiary agreed to pay criminal fines and other penalties of about $54 million. Calling the conduct "regrettable," chief executive Patricia Woertz said ADM had enhanced its internal controls and terminated some employees. A spokeswoman for ADM added: "While we owned 80% of the corporate parent of the Ukrainian company, we did not control it at that time." Grain lobby chief Klymenko said the business of paying kickbacks to receive VAT refunds "reached its height" after Yanukovich became president in 2010. "You had to give up 40 to 50 percent of it," he said. "They told you where to put it, in which bank to open a bank account, where to transfer the money." In his statement, Oleksandr Klymenko, the previous head of the tax authority and no relation of the grain lobby chief, said that the amount of VAT refunds increased in 2013 under his leadership and that he "radically" dealt with "VAT swindlers." His statement didn’t address the issue of kickbacks. Officials in the new government of President Petro Poroshenko have taken steps to try to deter corruption. These include a plan announced this week to slash the size of government and increase the salaries of civil servants. In the meantime, at the ministry of economic development and trade, new chief Pavlo Sheremeta said graft is "a cancer that’s eating the country from inside." Some of his reform efforts have met resistance. Sheremeta tried to cancel some of the huge fines leveled by the consumer protection agency against retailers like Foxtrot. The agency – which falls under his own ministry – responded by filing a lawsuit against Sheremeta, arguing that the fines were legal. The suit was dismissed. The tax ministry, meanwhile, is trying to clean up the VAT rackets. Noniak, the tax deputy, said the agency has opened 166 inquiries involving allegedly fraudulent requests for VAT refunds totaling about $76 million and another $4 million in illegal refunds. It also has started a criminal case against state officials involved in the suspect refunds. The agency, Noniak said, plans to give polygraph tests to state officials. It has opened 256 criminal cases against tax inspectors, tax police and customs officials, including 18 cases of alleged bribery. Another focus is hiring. "We need to appoint new managers as soon as possible," said Noniak. "We need normal, honest, reliable people who are ready to work for the state, not for themselves." Asked if he believed some tax agency employees are still on the take, tax chief Bilous replied: "Of course. That’s our main problem." (Additional reporting by Natalia Zinets. Edited by Michael Williams) FREE AppDownload
Australia’s unemployment rate has surged to a 12-year high of 6.4%, the Aussie dollar dropped to 0.9290, and the twitterverse has had a raft of hand wringing over such a big jump, though the reality is not as bad as the headline number looks. This is an important message to focus on because 6.4%, the highest rate in more than a decade, is going to scare Australian consumers. It will worry Australian businesses focussed on forward planning – especially those concerned about where buyers will come from. So while the actual level of unemployment is worrying, the reality in the economy is that the Australian Bureau of Statistics estimates there are currently 11,576,600 people employed on a seasonally adjusted basis. That’s just 300 people fewer than the all-time record of 11,576,900, which was posted in June. Certainly the data Thursday was disappointing, with employment falling by the 300 mentioned above against market expectations of around 12,000 to 13,000 last month. Full-time jobs rose 14,400, while part-time jobs fell 14,800. Commsec Chief Economist Craig James said that “a total of 109,900 new full-time jobs have been created in the first seven months of 2014 – the best start to a calendar year since 2008.<U+2033> But the unemployment rate went up because the ABS added 43,400 people to the labor force. Large jumps in the labor force happen all the time, but in this instance it is potentially because of a methodology change to the questions asked as part of the employment survey. The two question ask whether the respondent has: ‘Had an interview with an employer for work’ and ‘Taken steps to purchase or start your own business’ However, the ABS says changing the questions didn’t have a big impact on the data but that it did look odd as Justin Fabo Senior Economist from the ANZ noted: Overall, the report was weaker than expected. But given the sample rotation effect on both employment and unemployment and the potential for some impact from the methodological change on measured unemployment it is very difficult to get a clear read. Moreover, most other labor market indicators are improving, at least slowly, so the jump in the unemployment rate does look odd in that regard. We’ll need the August report to confirm that view. The good news in the data is that with the Australian rate moving above the U.S. rate, the Aussie dollar is getting hit and hit hard. It is currently sitting at 0.9292 down more than 60 pips from the high of 0.9355. This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Initial jobless claims plunged to 289,000 from a revised 303,000 prior. Consensus estimate was for a reading of 304,000. The four-week moving average of 293,500 is an eight-year low. And the non-sesasonally adjusted level of 247,100 is a 25-year low.   Continuing claims came in at 2,518,000, slightly above expectations for 2,512,000 but down from a revised 2,542,000 prior.  Pantheon Macro's Ian Shepherdson says the data bode extremely well for payrolls going forward.  "The Labor Dept sees no special factors but the seasonals look  quite generous this week so we expect a rebound next week," he writes in a new note. "That said, the data serve to reinforce the key point here, which is that the underlying trend in claims is declining steadily, and  is now approaching the 300K mark. Claims have not been sustained below that level with a downward trend since early 2006. With indicators of hiring looking strong too - though seasonals are likely boosting the ISM employment numbers - we see every chance of very strong payroll numbers, around 250K, becoming the norm through the rest of this year." Here's the new chart: Michael McDonough And here are claims as a percent of the population: Michael McDonough   FREE AppDownload
Earlier Thursday, Russia announced a ban on food imports coming from the European Union, the U.S., Canada, Australia, and Norway. This follows sanctions imposed by the EU and U.S. on Russia. "There is nothing good in sanctions and it wasn't an easy decision to take, but we had to do it," Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev said. Indeed, this could put pressure on food supplies in Russia, causing inflation, which ultimately puts the squeeze on Russian consumers. Bloomberg economist Maxime Sbaihi tweeted this chart of the world's big food importers. According to the WTO data cited, Russia was the fifth-biggest food importer in the world, bringing in $39 billion worth, or 3% of world food imports in 2012. Bloomberg Brief FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe Goldman Sachs logo is displayed on a post above the floor of the New York Stock Exchange(Reuters) - Goldman Sachs Group Inc &lt;gs.n&gt; said it was being investigated for its U.S. alternative trading system and for the potential misuse and circulation of non-public information related to its corporate developments. Fox Business Network reported this week that New York's attorney general was investigating the alternative trading systems, also known as "dark pools", run by Goldman and Morgan Stanley &lt;ms.n&gt;. Goldman, in a filing on Thursday, did not specify who was conducting the investigation. (http://bit.ly/1veATeY) A unit of Goldman Sachs was fined in July over pricing rule violations stemming from its dark pool SIGMA-X. Dark pools are broker-run trading venues that let investors trade shares anonymously and only make trading data available afterwards, reducing the chance of information leaking about trade orders. Goldman also lowered its unreserved legal costs to $3.2 billion at the end of June from $3.7 billion at the end of March, it said in the filing.   (Reporting by Tanya Agrawal; Editing by Saumyadeb Chakrabarty) FREE AppDownload
Jim D. Woodward / FlickrFRANKFURT (Reuters) - The European Central Bank left interest rates unchanged on Thursday, holding off fresh policy action as it prepares to launch fresh funding for banks next month that it hopes will lift inflation from rock-bottom levels. The decision to leave rates unchanged was expected after the ECB cut them in June, taking its deposit rate below zero and announcing a new round of long-term loans for banks that will be tied to lending to smaller companies. The first such loans will be available on Sept. 18. At Thursday's meeting, the ECB left its main refinancing rate unchanged at a record low of 0.15 percent, as expected. It also kept the rate on bank overnight deposits at -0.10 percent, which means banks pay to park funds at the central bank, and held its marginal lending facility - or emergency borrowing rate - at 0.40 percent. Markets now turn their attention to ECB President Mario Draghi's 1230 GMT news conference, at which he is expected to give a more detailed explanation of the ECB's decision.   (Writing by Paul Carrel; Editing by Catherine Evans) FREE AppDownload
Jim D. Woodward / FlickrFRANKFURT (Reuters) - The European Central Bank left interest rates unchanged on Thursday, holding off fresh policy action as it prepares to launch fresh funding for banks next month that it hopes will lift inflation from rock-bottom levels. The decision to leave rates unchanged was expected after the ECB cut them in June, taking its deposit rate below zero and announcing a new round of long-term loans for banks that will be tied to lending to smaller companies. The first such loans will be available on Sept. 18. At Thursday's meeting, the ECB left its main refinancing rate unchanged at a record low of 0.15 percent, as expected. It also kept the rate on bank overnight deposits at -0.10 percent, which means banks pay to park funds at the central bank, and held its marginal lending facility - or emergency borrowing rate - at 0.40 percent. Markets now turn their attention to ECB President Mario Draghi's 1230 GMT news conference, at which he is expected to give a more detailed explanation of the ECB's decision.   (Writing by Paul Carrel; Editing by Catherine Evans) FREE AppDownload
Investing.comThe German bond market is considered one of the safe havens for investors looking to get out of riskier asset classes like stocks. As tensions remain high on the Ukraine-Russia border, German bond prices have been rallying, pushing yields lower and lower. Earlier Thursday, the yield on Germany's two-year bond actually went negative, touching -0.004%. In other words, investors are effectively paying the German government to hold their money. And it's not just geopolitical turmoil that has investors worried. Just this week, we learned Italy slipped into recession. In the past two days, German factory orders and industrial production reports unexpectedly turned negative, confirming fears of a slowdown in Europe's biggest economy. New retaliatory sanctions from Russia on Thursday include a ban on food imports from the European Union. So, there are a plenty of reasons why investor might flock to things like German bonds. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kenneth Armstrong The hitchBOT next to Highway 17 north of Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario, and a portion of the Trans-Canada Highway on Tuesday. The hitch-hiking robot is now at the halfway point in its journey across Canada.1.  Russia Bans Food Imports From The West. Specifically from the U.S., EU, Canada, and Australia. More measures may be coming: Russia confirmed flight-path restrictions and sanctions targeting the Western industrial sector were also on the table, the FT reports. The retaliatory measures against Western sanctions come at a bad time for Europe, which is seeing flagging growth across the board ... 2.  German Industrial Production Retreats. The latest reading came in at -0.5%, well short of expectations for a gain 0f 0.3%. It is the first year-over-year decline since last July, and it follows Wednesday's terrible factory orders report of -3.2%. "June's year-over-year reading confirms the German industry is decelerating from a 5% annual growth peak reached in January," Bloomberg's Maxime Sbaihi and Niraj Shah said in a piece titled "No End in Sight for the German Industrial Slowdown." "[T]he pace deceleration is worrying with the crisis in Ukraine adding further weakness," Pantheon Macroeconomics' Claus Vistesen said. 3.  'Panic-Selling' In London Real Estate. The Telegraph says homeowners have begun dumping properties over fears they are running out of time to cash in on the huge run-up in prices. As BI's Jim Edwards points out, real estate agent chain Savills recently reported strong indications the London market was topping out. 4.  Draghi. ECB rate decision hits at 7:45 a.m. Eastern; the press conference at 8:30 a.m. "No changes are expected but [Draghi's] monthly press conference will be used to grill [him] on last week’s poor Eurozone inflation readings, the aforementioned weak data and likely the impact of the standoff with Russia," Accendo Markets' Michael van Dulken wrote in a note. 5.  Bank of America In Record Fine. The Charlotte-based megabank, which purchased subprime loan giant Countrywide in 2008, is expected to announce it has settled with federal prosecutors for a record $17 billion over mortgage fraud claims. The story was first reported Wednesday afternoon by The Wall Street Journal. 6.  Fox Surges. Shares in Rupert Murdoch's holding company were up 4.3% Thursday morning before the bell after the company reported strong profits Wednesday afternoon. On the company's earnings conference call, Murdoch called the company's decision to walk away from the Time Warner deal its "resolute" decision, BI's Myles Udland said. 7.  Keurig Green Mountain Falls. The K-Cup masters reported weaker-than-expected Q4 guidance after the bell Wednesday. Shares are down 1.6% before the bell Thursday.       8.  Data. At 8:30 a.m. we get weekly jobless claims. Consensus is for 305,000 against 302,000 prior. At 3 p.m. we get consumer credit. Consensus is for $18.3 billion, down from $19.6 billion prior. 9.  Earnings. Thursday morning we get Duke Energy, Mylan, Orbitz, Stratasys, and Wendy's. After the bell we get Lions Gate, Monster Beverage, SolarCity, and Zynga. 10.  Markets. European stocks were down modestly: London's FTSE and Germany's DAX were off 0.2%. Asian stocks saw mixed gains: Japan's Nikkei closed up 0.5%, while Hong Kong's Hang Seng fell 0.8%. U.S. futures were up about 0.1%.  FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Edgar SuA slew of negative economic surprises across the Eurozone is pointing to significant challenges the area faces on its road to recovery. Three of these surprises are listed below: 1. Italy's GDP unexpectedly contracted last quarter putting the nation into a third recession in since the financial crisis. WSJ: - Italy has slipped into its third recession since 2008, data showed Wednesday, in an unexpected setback that threatens to restrain the broader euro zone's fitful recovery. Italy's economy contracted at an annualized rate of 0.8% in the quarter ending June 30, according to a first estimate by national statistics institute Istat—the latest sign of how parts of Europe are still struggling to escape the legacy of the global financial crisis. It was the second successive quarter of falling Italian output, which meets the common international definition of a recession.  2. The area's retail sector took an unexpected turn for the worse last month. Markit: - The eurozone retail sector started the second half of the year on a weaker footing. The fragility of consumer spending was exposed by the PMI, particularly in France and Italy where the data showed sharper downturns in sales. Even in Germany, the one area of relative strength, there was an appreciable slowdown from June’s recent peak. Retailers underperformed relative to their targets to the greatest extent since March 2013, leading to further accumulations of unsold stock and the prospect of greater discounting ahead. 3. German factory orders contracted at the fastest pace since 2011. Deutsche Welle: - German industrial orders fell for the second consecutive month in June at a rate of 3.2 percent, following a similar 1.6 percent contraction in May, the economics ministry in Berlin said Wednesday. According to the data, orders contracted at their fastest pace since September 2011, disappointing analysts who had predicted gains of 0.9 percent in a consensus forecast. While many are blaming these economic headwinds on the uncertainty related to Russia/Ukraine as well as the sanctions, some analysts are pointing to problems closer to home. The Telegraph: - After what was dismissed as an irregular drop last month, Germany’s factory orders have seen another surprise fall in June. But the downturn has not been solely down to German exposure to ongoing tensions in Russia and Ukraine. Much of the poor performance is explained by crumbling demand from eurozone peers. Evelyn Herrmann, European economist at BNP Paribas, said that “the weakness was mainly driven by orders from within the eurozone” which fell by 10.4pc in June. Non-eurozone orders were stagnant in that month. The collapse in German government bond yields accelerated in response, reaching another record low. Moreover, the yield curve is beginning to show signs of inversion in the front end. This is not what the yield curve of a healthy economy is supposed to look like. The so-called "Putin factor" has certainly shaken confidence of the area's consumers and added uncertainty to the corporate boardrooms (giving Putin additional leverage over western nations). But the Eurozone's challenges seem to go beyond that. As the ECB prepares for another meeting shortly, these issues are sure to be brought up. Draghi's last bullet - direct asset purchases by the ECB - may no longer be as easily dismissed by the Governing Council. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kai PfaffenbachTwo traders on the floor of the German bourse in Frankfurt on July 21, 1997.German economic data has been unquestionably bad in recent days. Earlier Thursday, we learned industrial production unexpectedly fell 0.5% year-over-year in June, missing expectations for a 0.3% gain. This was the first year-over-year decline since July 2013. "June's year-over-year reading confirms the German industry is decelerating from a 5% annual growth peak reached in January," Bloomberg's Maxime Sbaihi and Niraj Shah said in a piece titled "No End in Sight for the German Industrial Slowdown." "[T]he pace deceleration is worrying with the crisis in Ukraine adding further weakness," Pantheon Macroeconomics' Claus Vistesen said. This report came hours before Russia announced a sweeping ban on food imports from the European Union. Markets are down modestly in Europe, with Germany's DAX down by 0.1%. The industrial production report follows Wednesday's horrific factory orders report, which showed that orders unexpectedly plunged 3.2% month-over-month in June. Economists were expecting a 0.9% gain. "Growth in new orders slumped at its fastest rate since September 2011, and the annual growth rate fell back to -4.3%," Vistesen said Wednesday. "The German statistical office reports that while domestic orders remained unchanged, new orders from the euro area fell an astonishing -10.4% from the previous month. " Vistesen noted that all these numbers could be volatile and that Germany recovered from similar economic hiccups in 2003 and 2004. "[B]ut if the smoothed growth rate drops below zero, it would be a clear sign of warning," he said. Pantheon Macroeconomics FREE AppDownload
Jim McCluskey/Flickr, CC There is one topic of conversation in Britain right now: The insane price of property, both to own and to rent. People on modest, middle class incomes who bought houses for a few hundred thousand pounds in marginal areas like London's East End during the mid 2000s have suddenly found themselves living inside assets worth more than £1 million ($1.68 million). Economics HelpThe Bank of England has kept interest rates virtually at zero since the crash of 2008, making mortgages incredibly cheap. That has driven a wave of buyers into the market, pumping up property prices. But Britons' incomes haven't kept pace with those prices, and now it appears we may be reaching some sort of breaking point. Some Londoners have begun "panic-selling" their houses, according to The Telegraph, in fear that this may be their last chance to cash in on the property ladder lottery before the housing boom comes crashing down. The numbers show that fear may be justified. Housing prices in the U.K. declined in July, according to Rightmove, as new buyers pulled out of the market. The BofE is not likely to raise interest rates soon, according to The Guardian, so that dip may be seasonal or temporary. However, it came at the same time as the real estate agent chain Savills reported that the London market was topping out. In its earnings call, Savills reported these stats for the first half of the year, according to the Financial Times: The Telegraph / HighchartsThe Financial Times says Savills group chief executive Jeremy Helsby told analysts that Londoners were getting out while the getting was good: Good price rises in London have encouraged people to move out ... They’re going into the home counties, and filtering further up and further out. Previously, the country had been quiet. Another sign of the top came in the form of the house price-to-earnings ratio as tracked by Halifax, the mortgage lender. Prices have again crested over five times the income of buyers. The last time they did that was right before the 2007 crash, The Telegraph notes, although at their peak prices hit 5.83 times earnings. Hometrack, the housing data company, published this scary chart full of downward-pointing red arrows showing that in London, price growth is declining, fewer people are buying houses, fewer sales are occurring, and asking prices are in decline: Hometrack All the signs are suggesting that prices are now so high no one can afford to actually buy houses in London any more, and that's fueling a stampede for the exits among those sitting in Britain's most expensive real estate. Want another stat? The Halifax Housing Market Confidence Tracker reported that 60% of owners now believe they must sell their houses in the next year, "the highest score of this measure since the survey's inception," as The Telegraph put it. FREE AppDownload
wbaiv / FlickrMore interesting thoughts here from Goldman on risks to the equity markets.  In this recent note they cite three big risks to the markets – 1) geopolitical risks; 2) China; and 3) rising interest rates: Geopolitical risks remain high, but in the case of both Iraq and Ukraine our expectation is that the likelihood of a broader market impact is low. Still, both conflicts remain very volatile and have the potential to have broad impact if they escalate beyond our expectations and this risk provides additional support for our equity downgrade. The risks to our growth outlook on the other hand have diminished as we now see the risks to our Chinese growth forecast as being broadly balanced rather than skewed to the downside. We see a move in bond yields as the most likely cause of market volatility in coming months and think our new allocation lowers the risks to the portfolio from this. This is a big call here.  The rising interest rate call is something Goldman appears to have a good deal of conviction about.  And it implies rising inflation, much stronger economic growth and a strong repositioning in monetary policy.  It will be interesting to see how right this forecast is in the coming years….Source: Goldman Sachs FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlo AllegriAttorneys Jonathan Blackman (L) and Carmine Boccuzzi, lead lawyers representing Argentina in its ongoing debt talks, arrive at federal court for a hearing in New York August 1, 2014. BUENOS AIRES (Reuters) - The U.S. judge in charge of Argentina's debt default case on Wednesday ordered Bank of New York Mellon to hold on to money deposited by the government rather than disburse the funds to holders of the country's restructured bonds. The move by U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa came after Argentina earlier in the day demanded the intermediary bank deliver $539 million in bond payments that were due in June but blocked by previous court rulings. Argentina defaulted on its sovereign bonds last week after losing a long legal battle with hedge funds that rejected the terms of debt restructurings in 2005 and 2010. The government has kept up pressure on Bank of New York Mellon to make payouts to the holders of restructured bonds despite Griesa's order saying it has to pay the holdout hedge funds at the same time. The holdouts are asking for repayment of 100 cents on the dollar rather than accept steep discounts offered in Argentina's two restructurings. "The Republic will seek to hold BNY Mellon liable for any damages the Republic has suffered and may suffer as a result of BNY Mellon’s acts and omissions," the government said in a letter to the bank on Wednesday. "BNY Mellon has placed its interests, and those of the plaintiffs ... over those of the Exchange Bondholders, in violation of BNY’s duties as Trustee," the letter said. Griesa disagreed, saying it was illegal for Argentina to deposit money intended for the exchange bondholders and ordered the bank to hold the funds. "Argentina will take no steps to interfere with BNY's retention of the funds," Griesa's order said. The inflation-racked South American country defaulted on about $100 billion on sovereign bonds in 2002. Most holders of those bonds accepted less than 30 cents on the dollar in the 2005 and 2010 restructurings while the holdouts opted to sue in the U.S. courts for full repayment. The case has turned into a bitter legal feud between the populist government of Argentina and the holdouts, derided by Buenos Aires as vultures circling the carcass of Argentina's traumatic 2002 debt crisis. Griesa stepped in on Monday to defend the mediator he appointed to help settle the dispute after Argentina accused the go-between of bias. The country's gross domestic product, meanwhile, is expected to shrink this year, according to the United Nation's body for Latin America, as fallout from the debt crisis keeps the region's No. 3 economy out of foreign debt markets. (Writing by Hugh Bronstein; Editing by Ken Wills) FREE AppDownload
David Blackwell/FlickrEuropean markets are down on Thursday after Russia said it would ban all food imports from the U.S., E.U., Canada, Australia and Norway in retaliation to sanctions over the Ukraine crisis. Here's the scorecard: Britain's FTSE 100 is down 0.24%. France's CAC 40 is down 0.27%. Germany's DAX is down 0.13%.  Spain's IBEX is down 0.40%. Italy's FTSE MIB is up 0.27%. The European Central Bank meets on Thursday. Economists expect the bank to keep rates on hold.  Markets are also down in Asia. Hong Kong's Hang Seng fell 0.80%. Japan's Nikkei closed up .048%, turning green after Reuters reported "Japan's public pension fund will increase allocations to stocks." U.S. futures are in the green with Dow futures up 24 points and S&amp;P futures up 4.4 points. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFile photo of Japan Maritime Self-Defense Force's PC3 surveillance plane flying around disputed islands in the East China Sea known as the Senkaku isles in Japan and Diaoyu in ChinaBEIJING (Reuters) - Japanese fighter jets shadowed Chinese aircraft patrolling over disputed waters, China's Ministry of Defense said on Thursday, in the latest flare-up of a spat over air space that has deepened a rift between the two countries. Tension has been high between Asia's two largest economies in recent months, with each accusing the other of flying military aircraft too close to its own jets in a long-running territorial dispute. Both sides claim a string of Japanese-administered islets in the East China Sea, known as Senkaku in Japan and Diaoyu in China. Beijing declared an air defense zone covering most of the East China Sea last year, sparking protests from Japan and the United States. China took "necessary measures" when numerous Japanese planes entered its East China Sea Air Defense Identification Zone during China's routine air patrols on Wednesday to safeguard "order and security", the Ministry said on its website. "Japanese F-15 fighter jets twice attempted to shadow Chinese patrol planes. China's air force took reasonable, fair and restrained measures to respond to the threat," the Ministry said, citing air force spokesman Colonel Shen Jinke. Japan's Ministry of Defense told Reuters it had no information on the incident. In June, China summoned Japan's defense attache to lodge a protest after the two countries traded accusations over the conduct of military jets. Japan warned in a report this week that China's defense budget soared fourfold over the past decade to 808 billion yuan (£77.8 billion), while Japan's defense spending dipped by 1.9 percent over the same period to 4.78 trillion yen (£27.7 billion). China said Japan was exaggerating the threat posed by its military spending to justify its own build-up.   (Reporting by Michael Martina, Additional reporting by Elaine Lies in Tokyo; Editing by Clarence Fernandez) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFamily members cry at a caring centre for relatives of victims of a factory explosion, in KunshanSHANGHAI/BEIJING (Reuters) - China has suspended work at more than 200 factories in an eastern province for safety checks as part of a nationwide review following an explosion at an auto parts plant that killed 75 people, government officials and state media said. Officials have been ordered to shut all aluminium and magnesium factories - and others that generate metal dust - for safety violations, the Jiangsu provincial government said in a statement late on Wednesday. Some 214 factories in Suzhou and 54 factories in Kunshan have been shut and will not reopen until they obtain government approval. It was not immediately clear how long that would take. Provinces such as Shaanxi, Tianjin and Sichuan, as well as the Guangxi special administrative region, have also stepped up safety checks. The crackdown comes after a blast at Kunshan Zhongrong Metal Products Co Ltd on Saturday, China's worst industrial accident in a year. State media has reported that investigators' preliminary findings show that Kunshan Zhongrong bears the main responsibility for the blast in Jiangsu, which also injured 185 people when a flame was lit in a dust-filled room. An hour's drive from Shanghai, Kunshan Zhongrong polishes wheel hubs for automakers including General Motors Co. "The suspended factories were found to suffer the same safety risk of dust pollution," the official Xinhua news agency said on Wednesday, citing the government in Suzhou, which includes the satellite city Kunshan. Xinhua did not give further details on the factories or what they produced. Jiangsu and Zhejiang provinces are known for their alloy wheel makers, with Jiangsu home to four of China's top 10 exporters, according to the Automobile Association. Many alloy wheel makers in Jiangsu have poor safety practices, the official China Securities Journal said. Earlier this week, President Xi Jinping demanded a full inquiry into what happened at Kunshan Zhongrong and that those responsible be punished. China's State Council Work Safety Commission ordered nationwide inspections and a safety campaign targeting factories that process aluminium, magnesium, coal, wood, paper, tobacco, cotton and plastic, Xinhua said. Xinhua also said authorities would draw up comprehensive regulations for dust control at factories. Police took at least two Kunshan Zhongrong representatives into custody earlier this week, Xinhua reported.   (Reporting by Fayen Wong and the Shanghai Newsroom in SHANGHAI, Michael Martina in BEIJING and Clare Baldwin in HONG KONG; Editing by Paul Tait) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersEuropean Central Bank President Draghi pauses during the monthly ECB news conference in FrankfurtFRANKFURT (Reuters) - The European Central Bank is set to hold fire on rates on Thursday as it waits for earlier stimulus measures to gain traction, while keeping an eye on emerging risks from the conflict in Ukraine. The ECB cut interest rates to record lows in June, became the first major central bank to charge banks for holding their deposits overnight and launched a new ultra-cheap, four-year loan program, dubbed TLTROs, to be rolled out later this year. "After the fireworks in June, it is not the time to take fresh measures because the ECB wants to wait and see how things develop," said Reinhard Cluse, economist at UBS. "The ECB wants to keep its powder dry." None of the 64 economists in a Reuters polled expect any change to the refinancing or deposit rates when the Governing Council meets on Thursday. ECB President Mario Draghi is likely to put more emphasis on the geopolitical risks to the euro zone growth outlook after the European Union stepped up sanctions against Russia for its role in Ukraine's political crisis, which has already hit confidence. Although all but two of 36 economists in a separate poll said there was a low risk of any negative impact on the euro zone economy from the U.S. and EU sanctions on Russia, they come at a time when key countries are struggling to return to growth. Italy, the euro zone's third largest economy, slipped back into recession in the second quarter. Prime Minister Matteo Renzi has led calls to move from austerity to looser EU budget rules, but has been rebuffed by Germany, Europe's economic powerhouse, and some others. In France, the region's second biggest economy which is also struggling, President Francois Hollande said the ECB and Germany must do more to boost growth and fight a "real deflationary risk" in Europe. Against the backdrop of this debate, Draghi held talks with incoming European Commission chief Jean-Claude Juncker on Wednesday.   "DONE WITH EASING" Euro zone annual inflation hit 0.4 percent in July, the lowest since October 2009, though much was down to a sharp fall in volatile energy prices. UBS sees inflation picking up slowly from here, reaching 0.8 percent toward the end of the year. Low price pressures in the euro zone are also a result of reforms in some countries to regain competitiveness that include wage cuts and restrained government spending, which the ECB does not want to undermine. The central bank has also taken heart from looser bank lending standards, indications of a pick-up in credit demand going forward and a weaker euro exchange rate &lt;eur=&gt;, which hit a nine-month low against the dollar on Wednesday. If, however, inflation remains stuck at low levels for too long and if inflation expectations start to deteriorate, the ECB says it stands ready to act, possibly with large-scale asset purchases, which are also known as quantitative easing. "President Draghi is likely to reiterate the ECB's dovish stance, leaving forward guidance unchanged with the option to do more in the future (including QE)," said Frederik Ducrozet, senior economist at Credit Agricole CIB. "But our baseline remains that the ECB is done with easing at this point."   (Editing by Gareth Jones) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Natalia Kolesnikova/Pool Russian President Vladimir Putin, right, with First Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev.Russia just announced a ban on food imports from the U.S., the European Union, Canada, Australia, and Norway. Russia is specifically banning all beef, pork, fruit, vegetable, dairy, cheese, and fish imports from the U.S. and the EU. The ban will last one year from Thursday. The announcement was made by Russian Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev in Moscow, reports Bloomberg's Olga Tanas. "There is nothing good in sanctions and it wasn't an easy decision to take, but we had to do it," Medvedev said. In recent weeks, the U.S. and the EU introduced a series of economic sanctions against Russia for its involvement in destabilizing Ukraine. Sanctions were targeted at financial and energy firms. Medvedev said Russian food producers would step up to supply the market. Bloomberg BriefHowever, this new move puts the Russian economy at risk of supply constraints, which could lead to inflation heating up. According to the WTO, Russia is the world's fifth largest food importer. Here's the list of banned products (via Reuters): — cattle meat, fresh, chilled, or frozen; — pork, fresh, chilled or frozen; — poultry and its subproducts, fresh, chilled, or frozen; — all salted, dried, or smoked meats; — fish, shellfish, scallops, and other aquatic invertebrates; — milk and dairy products; — vegetables; — fruits; — nuts; — sausage and similar meat products; — cheese and similar products. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mark Peters/ECCC/Handout via ReutersIn this handout photo courtesy of the ECCC, former Khmer Rouge leader ''Brother Number Two'' Nuon Chea (C) sits at the Extraordinary Chambers in the Courts of Cambodia (ECCC) as his verdict is delivered on the outskirts of Phnom Penh August 7, 2014. Good morning! Here's what people will be chatting about on Thursday.  1. Two former leaders of Cambodia's Khmer Rouge regime were sentenced to life in jail for crimes against humanity during the "killing fields" revolution in the 1970s. Former head of state Khieu Samphan and Nuon Chea, both now in their 80s, are the first senior officials to be held accountable for the regime responsible for the death of around 1/4 of Cambodia's population.  2. Liberia declared a state of emergency to fight the Ebola outbreak. In a speech late Wednesday, Liberian President Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf said that the spread of the disease was exacerbated by “ignorance and poverty, as well as entrenched religious and cultural practices," the AP reported. The death toll from Ebola has climbed to more than 900. Meanwhile, health experts are meeting in Geneva to discuss how to combat the virus.    3. Israel says it's willing to extend a 72-hour truce in Gaza, while Hamas reportedly denies that any such agreement has been made, according to conflicting statements from officials of the two fighting groups quoted by Reuters. A three-day ceasefire took effect on Tuesday and expires on Friday.  4. In response to sanctions, Russian president Vladimir Putin has officially banned food imports from the U.S., E.U., Canada, Australia, and Norway. Earlier, Russian officials said they would discuss "an option to increase food imports from Ecuador, Brazil, Chile and Argentina with the countries' ambassadors on Thursday," according to Reuters.  5. Bank of America has reached a tentative deal with the Justice Department to pay more more than $16 billion to settle allegations relating to mortgage fraud, which helped trigger the financial crisis. According to the Financial Times, if the agreement is finalized, it "will be the Department of Justice’s largest settlement with a single entity." 6. Italy, the third largest economy in the Eurozone, is back in recession after GDP fell 0.2% in the second quarter.  7. Google is teaming up with Barnes &amp; Noble to offer same-day book deliveries in a move to take on online retailer giant Amazon, The New York Times reports. "Starting on Thursday, book buyers in Manhattan, West Los Angeles and the San Francisco Bay Area will be able to get same-day deliveries from local Barnes &amp; Noble stores through Google Shopping Express, Google’s fledgling online shopping and delivery service," the paper said.  8. Australia is holding a national day of mourning to remember the victims of the Malaysia Airlines plane that was shot down over eastern Ukraine in July. A total of 298 were killed in the tragedy; 38 were Australian, the Guardian said.  9. After a one-month break, the defense team and prosecutors are preparing to give their final closing arguments in the the Oscar Pistorius trial. The double-amputee runner is accused of murdering his girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp.  10. People who don't get enough Vitamin D are more likely to get dementia later in life, according to "one of the biggest studies of its kind into the nutritional supplement," The Independent said. Scientists found that senile dementia and Alzheimer’s disease were higher in elderly men and women with low levels of Vitamin D.  And finally... The European Space Agency's Rosetta Spacecraft is sending back the first images and data after becoming the first probe ever to rendevous with a comet.  FREE AppDownload
State Library of South Australia/Flickr(Reuters) - Asian shares retreated while investors flocked to safe haven assets such as bonds and gold on Thursday, spooked by a Russian troop build-up on the border with Ukraine and tit-for-tat economic sanctions between the West and Moscow. Sentiment soured further in Asia after the Australian dollar, seen as a barometer of risk appetite, sank after Australia's unemployment rate jumped unexpectedly to a 12-year high, sparking talk of an interest rate cut there. MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan &lt;.MIAPJ0000PUS&gt; dropped 0.3 percent but Japan's Nikkei average &lt;.N225&gt; turned positive after Reuters reported Japan's public pension fund will increase allocations to stocks. European shares are also expected to fall, with spread betters seeing Germany's DAX &lt;.GDAXI&gt; falling up to 0.2 percent and France's CAC40 &lt;.FCHI&gt; 0.1 percent. "We had negative factors when investors had already felt that stocks are a bit risky because they are supported by expectations of easy monetary policy rather than a strong economy," said Akito Fukunaga, chief yen bond strategist at Barclays in Tokyo. "That is why risk asset prices are taking a big hit now," he added. Russia said on Wednesday it will ban all imports of food from the United States and all fruit and vegetables from Europe, in a sweeping response to Western sanctions imposed over its support for rebels in Ukraine. As fighting has intensified on the ground in eastern Ukraine, NATO also said Russia massed around 20,000 combat-ready troops on Ukraine's border. "I think the chances of Russia invading Ukraine are low. But you can't be entirely sure when a large number of troops are in confrontation. Investors will be inclined to avoid risk and take profits," said Hidenori Suezawa, analyst at SMBC Nikko Securities. U.S. shares hit two-month lows on Wednesday before ending almost flat while shares in Europe, seen as more vulnerable due to Europe's closer economic ties withRussia, fell to near-four-month lows &lt;.FTEU3&gt;. There are signs the crisis in Ukraine was affecting Germany, Europe's biggest economy. Data showed on Wednesday German industrial orders slid 3.2 percent in June, the steepest fall since September 2011 and confounded expectations for a 1.0 percent rise. The economy ministry said political tensions had probably led to more consumer caution. In further evidence of economic weakness in Europe, Italy's economy unexpectedly slid back into recession in the second quarter as gross domestic product shrank 0.2 percent from the first three months of the year. While the European Central Bank is expected to keep its policy on hold at its meeting later in the day, Wednesday's data and persistently low inflation in the euro zone should keep alive market expectations for the bank to eventually turn to quantitative easing. Against this backdrop, the euro slid to a nine-month low of $1.3333 &lt;EUR=&gt; against the dollar on Wednesday. The single currency last stood at $1.3386. The biggest mover in Asia was the Australian dollar, which fell 0.7 percent to $0.9288 &lt;AUD=D4&gt; after a poor employment report revived expectation that theReserve Bank of Australia may cut interest rates again from the current record low. The depressed mood lifted gold and pushed down bond yields in the United States and Europe to new lows. Gold also held firm at $1,306.89 per ounce &lt;XAU=&gt;, staying near one-week high of $1,309.60 touched on Wednesday. The 10-year U.S. debt yield hit a two-month low of 2.433 percent &lt;US10YT=RR&gt; on Wednesday and last stood at 2.462 percent. In Europe, German 10-year bund yield slid to a record low of 1.097 percent &lt;DE10YT=RR&gt; while the 10-year UK gilts yield hit a one-year low of 2.503 percent &lt;GB10YT=RR&gt;. U.S. crude futures &lt;CLc1&gt; steadied around $97.09 after having slipped to a six-month low of $96.69 per barrel on Wednesday. They have fallen more than $10 a barrel over the past six weeks, as excess global supply built up a glut in the Atlantic Basin and Asian markets. (Editing by Shri Navaratnam and Eric Meijer) FREE AppDownload
