By Daniel Trotta HAVANA (Reuters) - A Cuban court has sentenced Canadian executive Cy Tokmakjian to 15 years in prison for bribery and other economic charges in a case his company and Western diplomats have called a chilling development for potential foreign investors. Two of his aides from the Tokmakjian Group received sentences of 12 and 8 years, and Cuba seized about $100 million worth of the company's assets, the Ontario-based transportation firm said in a statement. The Tokmakjian Group, which did an estimated $80 million in business annually with Cuba until it was shuttered in September 2011, called the case a "show trial" and a "travesty of justice." Fourteen Cubans were also charged. The result of their cases was unknown. Cuba has yet to comment on the verdict or sentencing.    "Lack of due process doesn't begin to describe the travesty of justice that is being suffered by foreign businessmen in Cuba," the company statement said. The Tokmakjian Group was one of the more successful foreign companies in Cuba, mainly selling transportation, mining and construction equipment. Then it was suddenly caught up in an investigation of Cuba's international trading sector as part of a crackdown on corruption by President Raul Castro. The case also strained Cuba's relationship with Canada, and the company has pressed the Canadian government to ask Cuba for the release of the three executives. Western diplomats have called into question the charges, saying the evidence was weak, and said it would dissuade foreign investors at a time Cuba is actively seeking partners from abroad to do business on the communist-ruled island. Lead defendant Cy Tokmakjian, 74, the company's founder and president, has been jailed for more than three years on charges that include bribery, fraud, tax evasion, and falsifying bank documents. Fellow Canadians Claudio Vetere and Marco Puche were sentenced to 12 and 8 years each, respectively, said Lee Hacker, the company's spokesman and vice president for finance. They have been out of jail in Havana, their passports seized. The Tokmakjian Group has already started fighting the charges by filing claims worth more than $200 million against Cuba through the International Chamber of Commerce in Paris and in Canada through the Ontario Superior Court. "I wouldn't recommend anyone go to Cuba to invest," Hacker said. "As we said all along, we were expecting this. Everything was predetermined." Cuba has been touting a new foreign investment law that took effect this year, part of an overt campaign to attract foreign direct investment that is crucially needed for development. The main feature of the law is to lower taxes. But many foreign companies have said they are more interested in the general business climate, transparency and the rule of law, especially in light of this case. The 14 Cuban defendants included Nelson Labrada, the former deputy minister of the defunct Sugar Ministry, and Ernesto Gomez, former director of the state nickel company, Ferroniquel Minera S.A. Prosecutors were seeking a 20-year sentence for Labrada and terms of 8 to 12 years for the other Cubans.  (Reporting by Daniel Trotta; Editing by Dan Grebler) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA Clorox worker walks past the's company logo at its headquarters in Valles del Tuy(Reuters) - U.S. cleaning products maker Clorox Co  said the Venezuelan government's takeover of two of its plants after the company pulled out of the country raised "grave concerns" about the safety of workers and surrounding communities. Venezuela announced on Friday the "temporary" takeover of the two plants owned by Clorox, which said it left the country because of difficult economic conditions. After Clorox management's departure, many of the firm's 400 workers occupied two plants in the Valles del Tuy district south of Caracas and in central Carabobo district. Clorox said the production of cleaning products, in particular bleach, was "a highly specialized and technical process." The company said it had safely secured the plants before its exit, including removing all the chlorine. "The Venezuelan government's actions raise grave concerns, and Clorox and its affiliates cannot be responsible for the safety of workers and the surrounding communities or any liability or damages resulting from this occupation," Clorox said in a statement on Friday. The Oakland, California-based company added it was prepared to discuss with the government "prompt, adequate and effective compensation" for the takeover of the plants. Venezuelan Vice President Jorge Arreaza visited the Valles del Tuy plant on Friday evening and said the facility would be reactivated. He gave no further details of the government's plans for the plants. Clorox announced its exit on Monday, saying its business was not viable and that it would sell its assets. It is the latest sign of dissatisfaction from private businesses with President Nicolas Maduro's running of the South American OPEC nation's economy. Clorox said operating restrictions imposed by the government, economic uncertainty and supply disruptions would have led to considerable operating losses. Its share price rose on the announcement, despite the company saying it expected to incur after-tax exit costs of $60 million to $65 million, or 46 cents to 50 cents a share, in fiscal 2015. Various multinationals, from Colgate-Palmolive Co  to Avon Products Inc , have been warning of hits to their balance sheets and are scaling back operations in Venezuela, citing Byzantine currency controls and a slowing economy.  (Reporting by Eric Beech in Washington; Editing by Peter Cooney) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/StringerShares of $2 billion Janus Capital exploded 42% and PIMCO parent Allianz fell by around 6% after it was announced that Bill Gross would be leaving PIMCO to manage a fund at Janus. "We are placing no-moat  Allianz under review while we assess the impact of the announcement," Morningstar's Vincent Lui wrote. "We expect to lower our fair value estimate, as it is likely that tens of billions, if not hundreds of billions in AUM, will follow Gross to Janus from Allianz." As of June 30, PIMCO had $1.97 trillion in assets under management. Janus had about $177 billion. "Tens of billions" and "hundreds of billions" is a pretty wide range. Moves by big portfolio managers, however, are not unprecedented. "We believe Jeffrey Gundlach’s acrimonious departure from TCW in 2009 is a possible model, and we note that Gundlach’s DoubleLine now manages more than $50 billion," Lui noted. We'll keep in eye on the monthly fund flow stats. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/David StubbsDerek Laney of St. Louis protests during the Jackson Hole Economic Policy Symposium in Jackson Hole, Wyoming.We will start this weekend missive with three serious quotes and references.  They are from thoughtful work by professional and personal friends.  And they offer diverse views. QUOTE # 1. “We offer new analyses in this working paper of the impact of changes in the US labor force participation rate (LFPR). Right now, many observers of the US economy are attributing much of the historically huge decline in LFPR to demographic factors – despite the fact that the drop in participation is unprecedentedly rapid and coincident with the severe 2008-10 recession. If this attribution were correct, there would be little labor market slack left in the US economy, and the standard unemployment rate (minus the best-guess nonaccelerating inflation rate of unemployment [NAIRU]) would be a nearly sufficient target for that slack. The stakes are high for this assessment, not only because it will be a primary determinant of the timing of Federal Reserve policy tightening; the more one believes that current high long-term unemployment is cyclically (demand) driven rather than structurally (mismatch and demographic) driven, the more one believes workers can be brought back into employment through monetary (or other) stimulus.”– David Blanchflower and Adam Posen, “Wages and Labor Market Slack: Making the Dual Mandate Operational.” Working Paper Series. Washington, DC. September 2014: WP 14-6. Peterson Institute for International Economics.  (http://www.piie.com/publications/wp/wp14-6.pdf) QUOTE # 2 “The unexpectedly swift decline in the unemployment rate in recent years has in large part been attributed to a drop in the labor force participation rate. The labor force participation rate has fallen due to cyclical factors such as workers temporarily dropping out of the workforce because of discouragement over job prospects, but also due to structural forces such as the Baby Boomers reaching retirement age and younger workers staying in school longer. But with the labor market finally gaining some traction this year, is the unemployment rate now falling as more unemployed workers are finding jobs?”– John Silvia and Sarah Watt House, Labor Force Flows: Movement Behind the Headlines (2014) Wells Fargo Securities. (http://www.cumber.com/content/special/LaborForceFlows_09252014.pdf) QUOTE # 3 “The income divide in the United States is not a new phenomenon; it has been increasing for several decades. The Gini coefficient is a common statistic used to measure the degree of income inequality within a population…. Viewed in a different light, the top 5% of US households represented 20% of aggregate income in 1960, but by the mid 2000s the proportion rose to around 35%.... Moreover, the US far outstrips the global average for inequality. In 2011, the average income of the world’s richest 10% was nine times that of the poorest 10%. In the US, the ratio was much higher, at 14-to-1.”– Ellen Zentner and Paula Campbell, “Inequality and Consumption.” Morgan Stanley US Economics (2014).(Registration required: https://ny.matrix.ms.com/eqr/article/webapp/rw/Uuid/bbef3514-1da3-11e4-88d8-349e888f8058/USECONOMICS_20140922_0000.pdf) Thank you to Danny and Adam, John and Sarah, Ellen and Paula.  You have set the stage for our discussion today and framed the debate for serious readers to consider. There is a debate in the US about the labor force, employment and wages. That debate takes place internally at the central bank, where contrasting views are regularly articulated by members of the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) as our Federal Reserve (Fed) policymakers attempt to steer monetary policy with regard to interest rates. Opinions and assertions about the condition of the US labor force are also offered by financial market participants, advisors, economists, and academics. The three papers cited above are part of that debate. They were written by skilled professionals who have identified, cited, and articulated views succinctly, eloquently, and usefully for anyone who takes the time to read them. I know some of the writers personally and I respect their work. The coincidence of all addressing labor force issues and income led to this weekend’s commentary. In our view, the result of reading all three papers and others like them leads to a conclusion: we do not know the answers to the major problems the authors raise.  We do not have certainty.  We do have skilled opinions and assertions. Those of us in the financial market advising business are trying to grasp how labor force income will rise, at what rate, and in what cohorts, segments or components. We focus on different measures. The data are dependable. It is extensively assembled by means of systems that have been tested over many years. There is reliability in labor force data series.  We are counting things well when we consider the margins for error. But interpretation and, hence, conclusions are difficult to come by. In fact, a large enigma remains unresolved, in that the labor force participation rate has been trending lower for a long time and has returned to levels last seen in the 1970s. At the same time, the unemployment rate may be inching upward.  Were it to do so, it would signal that growing numbers of Americans seek a return to the labor force by declaring they have the confidence to find employment. If this phenomenon continued for several months – say, six data points – it would surely warrant a re-examination of many premises. We have yet to see that happen. Maybe an additional positive sign will appear with next Friday’s monthly employment report. A positive report would read something like 250,000 new non-farm jobs, a slight tick up in the unemployment rate that is the result of a rising participation rate.  That is a guess, not a forecast.  We will look at the details carefully and the revisions.  That is where we may be able to discern some trends. It would be good to observe sequentially rising income in the monthly employment reports. Higher pay levels broadly distributed among various categories of workers would indicate that income from labor is rising. It would mean that those who have to pay for labor are willing to pay more and those who provide labor (workers) are able to demand and obtain more. We have not seen that happen in a robust way. Where we do see it occur, it is isolated as opposed to broadly indicative. It would also be helpful if we saw the income inequality divide narrowing. That would say to us that the distribution of income (assumed also to be wealth, although that is not a perfect identity) is broadening. But as Ellen Zentner notes, income inequality in the US has been widening for decades. If the wealthy become wealthier, do they spend more on consumption? Are there levels at which “trickle down” ends in a drought? The answer is apparently a mixed but qualified yes. On the other hand, can we see some characteristics of the labor force that suggest that it is normalizing? The answer again is a qualified yes. One of my favorite statistics is pointed out by Jason Benderly, who suggests that households headed by a male adult with spouse present is a sector whose unemployment rate can be most consistently used to determine when wage pressure is beginning to rise. His reasoning is simple. If the head of household is a man, and it is an intact household in the traditional sense, that man is usually motivated to obtain income to support his family. Highly motivated workers are those who will find work and tighten the labor force more quickly. At some point that trend will be reflected in higher labor incomes. I also like to look at the single mom statistics, since single women who heads a household is part of a growing component of our society. Women who head households are a highly motivated cohort. In our labor force analytics, we observe both series. We see them improving. That says highly motivated heads of households, be they women or men, are seeking and obtaining jobs and gradually raising their incomes albeit at a slow pace. Will that trend lead to tightening conditions and then inflation pressure? We do not know. We have presented three papers that readers can view at their leisure in order to draw their own conclusions. The policymakers of the US central bank do not have the answers either. They have divided views, opinions, and assertions. Their current data is the same that we have. It goes without saying that the central bank is looking at history and attempting to drive policy forward. All of us know the peril of driving the car by looking in the rearview mirror. But in the present and confusing environment, history is all we have to help us. So what do we do with markets? Cumberland Advisors continues to modify duration in its managed bond accounts, either through hedging tactics or through shortening policies. We believe the short-term US interest rate will remain near zero for the rest of this year and well into 2015. Current market expectations suggest that the first Fed hike might occur in the summer of 2015. We are not sure. There may not be a hike for the entire year. Or the first tap on the interest-rate pedal may come earlier. As of this moment, there is no way to know.  The result is schizophrenia in the discounting mechanism applied to short term interest rates. The bond market is schizophrenic, too. One day it forecasts higher interest rates, and bond investors panic. The next day, data suggest the opposite.  Resulting bond market disarray ensues and rising bond interest rates seem way out in the future. The market rallies. Schizophrenia prevails in the bond market. The US stock market struggles with persistently very low interest rates and high liquidity. All of that is due to central bank policy. Meanwhile geopolitical risk rises; headline risk rises; and the new phenomenon of a structurally strengthening US dollar develops. Volatility in stock markets (VIX, SKEW) is reactive.  Valuation metrics suggest the market is priced at a high level yet liquidity abounds and its influence is intense.  Stocks, too, have schizophrenia. At Cumberland Advisors, we expect a long stretch of rising US dollar strength compared with most other currencies worldwide. Our portfolio shifts reflect that. We are also aware of the geopolitical risk that is abundant in the world and may precipitate a “black swan” event at any time. That could lead to a correction in stock prices. Stock, bond and liquidity market agents are evidencing schizophrenia. At Cumberland, we are maintaining some cash reserves in our exchange-traded fund portfolios as this is written. That cash could be redeployed at any time. This article originally appeared at Cumberland Advisors.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
YouTube / TEDx TalksMohamed El-ErianHours after Bill Gross announced his stunning resignation from PIMCO, parent company Allianz announced that Daniel Ivascyn would fill the vacated seat. Ivascyn, also known as "a beast," became the heir-apparent after then co-CIO Mohamed El-Erian unexpectedly announced his resignation from the firm in January. El-Erian went on to become Chief Economic Adviser for Allianz. "Dan is a brilliant investor, inspiring leader, superb manager and one of the most considerate and decent people I know," El-Erian said in a new statement from Allianz. "He is a great Group CIO for PIMCO." El-Erian's resignation was followed by a series of odd reports of Gross' unusual behavior at the firm. One PIMCO portfolio manager reportedly quit because of Gross. El-Erian did not respond to Business Insider's request for comment. While we may never know exactly how El-Erian feels about how events unfolded, we'd speculate that any regret he feels is probably limited. In a recent piece for Worth, he wrote that his decision to resign was "so far" the "right decision." "As much as I could rationalize it—as I had rationalized it—my work-life balance had gotten way out of whack, and the imbalance was hurting my very special relationship with my daughter," he wrote. "I now alternate with my wife in waking up our daughter every morning, preparing her breakfast and driving her to school. I’m also around much more often to pick her up after school and take her to activities. She and I are doing a lot of wonderful talking and sharing. We’ve even planned a holiday together, just the two of us." Meanwhile, PIMCO's massive $221 billion Total Return Fund is currently in a 16-month streak of outflows. It's pretty clear that Ivascyn and PIMCO's current leadership have a lot of work ahead of him. Work with which El-Erian will have no involvement. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersWorkers look at machines moving newly made raw bricks at a factory in HuaibeiSHANGHAI (Reuters) - China's industrial profits fell 0.6 percent in August from a year earlier, reversing from July's 13.5 percent annual rise, the government said on Saturday, the latest in a series of weak data from the world's second-largest economy. Industrial companies made profits of 3.83 trillion yuan between January and August, 10 percent higher than the same period last year. China's National Bureau of Statistics did not give a reason for the August decline. The monthly decline adds to recent weak figures that have fuelled fears that China is at risk of a sharp slowdown if it does not make fresh stimulus measures. China's factory output grew at its weakest pace in nearly six years in August while growth in other key sectors such as retail sales and imports also cooled. China's economy has had a difficult time this year as a slowdown in the housing market weighs on economy activity. This was further exacerbated by unsteady foreign demand which dragged on exports, factory output and domestic investment.   (Reporting by Brenda Goh and Samuel Shen; Editing by Nick Macfie) FREE AppDownload
Sports psychologist Dr. Jonathan Fader helps professional athletes overcome adversity using techniques that rely on various types of imagery. One method incorporates elements of the approach used by the ancient Samurai warrior. Dr. Fader also uses the concept to motivate bankers and traders working in high-pressure environments where millions are at stake.Produced by Graham Flanagan Follow BI Video: On Facebook  
A recent Quora post prompted the question, "What are some of the most mind-blowing facts that sound like "BS", but are actually true?" They might be hard to believe, but these facts about geography, people and events are in fact true.  Produced by Justin Gmoser. Follow BI Video: On YouTube
Getty ImagesNot the author.I sometimes get amused looks from North Americans when I tell them that I moved to Singapore. They tend to reflexively respond that I must be crazy to move to a country where "consuming even chewing gum is a crime." The interaction that happens between us leaves me thinking that they want to rationalize not having to do the hard work of understanding what other places are like. I love North America. A section of Americans are very free-thinking, and I enjoy their company. Such people—in such large numbers—are hard to find elsewhere in the world. But as political entities, both the US and Canada are on a rather rapid decline. After a balanced look through respective facts at what else the world has to offer, one might still stay in North America. But warping our thinking and facts to adjust our actions to what feels easy in the short-term could have disproportionate, long-term negative consequences. So let's have a closer look at Singapore, starting with chewing gum. On a few occasions, I decided to have chewing gum right in front of a difficult-to-find policeman. Each time, I made sure they saw what I was consuming. They ignored me completely. The reality is that while they ban chewing gum from being sold in stores, they don't have any issue with people consuming it or importing it for personal purposes. What they do have a problem with is if you spit it on the sidewalk. They penalize you aggressively if you do—and I'm happy they do. Of course, such perpetrators are hard to trace, and regulation is not a panacea. The authorities try to keep "wrong" kinds of people out of the country. And people have a very strong sense of civilized conduct. Despite having among the highest population densities in the world, you almost never get pushed in public places. People respect your distance, and the young never occupy reserved spaces on public transport, if there is a slightest chance that someone might need them. Locals are almost always well-dressed and students well-behaved. To those amused Americans who feel proud about their freedom to consume gum, I often ask if they would rather have freedom to buy and consume alcohol wherever and whenever they want, as is the case in Singapore, or worry about the small issue of unavailability of gum in stores. But it's extremely hard to make people aware of the slavery and indoctrination they have grown up in, for the chains they wear are not visible to them. I often lose their attention. What about guns and drugs? Yes, both of these are illegal in Singapore. But I do not use drugs; and despite wishing that others had the freedom to live their lives the way they wanted, I'm not affected by this rule. Guns are very strictly controlled, but then the reality is that a 16-year-old girl can pretty much go wherever she wants to late in the night just by herself and not have to worry much about risks, certainly not the pervasive ones she would have to worry about in US cites. Criminals are quickly canned and put in prison—and packed off back home if they're an immigrant. In early December 2013, there were riots in Little India, an area of Singapore frequented by those of Indian descent: Indians, Pakistanis, and Bangladeshis. While the full story is still awaited, it seems that the rioters had seen too much of a race issue in what was likely an accidental death of an allegedly drunk Indian on the road. A crowd of Indians—very irrationally—obstructed the emergency vehicles from reaching the injured person, who succumbed to his injuries on the road. In India, it's very common for crowds to beat up drivers in such situations while paying no attention to the dying victims. Again, the full story is still not known, but one can be assured that the rioters who were arrested will be packed off home, as happened with some Chinese bus drivers last year, who had assumed that it was OK to go on strike in a country where any failure of public transport creates an emergency. Moreover, Singapore thrives on smooth functioning of its society and commerce. If street protests and taking away other people's rights by destroying their property (as is the issue in the story above) is your way to claim your rights, Singapore is not for you. So what about the race issues? Sometimes when I call people about renting their apartment, I am asked without hesitation if I am an Indian. It saves us drama and hassles, if a landlord really doesn't want to give me his apartment. After a bit of inquiry, I realized that for a lot of them the worry was that Indian cooking leaves a smell that does not disappear easily. I see nothing wrong with not wanting to deal with that. But there is indeed a growing frustration among the locals that they lose out in careers because of the ease with which foreigners can come and because of demand-side inflation that rich people bring to the property market. Today, one of out of every three in the work force holds a foreign passport. There is increasing public pressure for a "Singapore for Singaporeans." But if you're Caucasian, you will likely in totality be a beneficiary of any race issues. Would Singapore ever become socialist? There's likely an increase in a sense of entitlement among the young, who lack the comprehension that without the free market, Singapore, instead of being one of the richest places in the world, would still be a mosquito-infected swamp of poverty that it was a mere 40 years back. These people indeed ask for more government, but I seriously doubt if Singapore will fundamentally change in the near-term—as a city-state, the free market is its core competency. Singaporeans are very hardworking. Commitments are mostly honored. But one must realize that despite a very good educational system as is conventionally defined, Singaporeans in their upbringing are indoctrinated and molded to become nice, shining cogs in a big, efficient machine. They perhaps lack critical thinking, like many others who go through the public school systems in other parts of the world. Perceived personal barriers are mostly a result of indoctrination during their upbringing; otherwise it is a free-wheeling society, making its institutions and systems extremely conducive to entrepreneurial and creative endeavors for those who are positioned to exploit them. I must quickly add a very important nuance to the above portrayal. My two years, with frequent travels abroad, have given me a bit of linear view of Singapore's culture. Excessive emphasis on material possessions and desperation for a regular, secure job that comes from the not-too-long-ago poverty of Singapore is likely rapidly on its way out. Several people who have lived in Singapore longer than I insist that the cultural undercurrent is such that it is at a cusp of a revolution in creativity, with top international companies increasingly moving their R&amp;D work and with world's best universities setting up their operations there. Top leadership positions are increasingly taken up by locals. From a long-term view, being able to participate in an increasingly creative society might be the biggest advantage of moving to Singapore. Getting a job leads to very quick approval for residency, perhaps within a couple of days. If you decide to open your own business—which takes less than a day—and employ yourself in it, it might cost you a couple of thousands of dollars to do all the paperwork to get an employment permit; less than that will get all your corporate and regulatory filing done each year. Filing of personal income tax will likely take you a minute or two—only earnings are taxed. Your capital gains, dividends, and bank interest are yours to keep unmolested. Singapore doesn't tax any overseas earnings either. As a corollary, you don't have to expose your wealth to the government. Virtually everything dealing with the government is done on the Internet in an extremely efficient and friendly way. I have never encountered a busybody from the government, and sightings of the police are rare to none. Most people I've known take residency and avoid becoming citizens, despite that the Singaporean passport offers some of the best advantages anywhere in terms of traveling: visa-free travels to most countries in the West, and even to many places where Western passports need visas, like China. Given that Singapore doesn't get involved in imperialistic adventures, its passport offers higher safety as well—neither Christians nor Muslims seem to have any specific reason to dislike them. Alas, a Singaporean passport comes with a mandatory national service requirement—which is a very major drawback; a need to participate in the provident fund; and some other minor liabilities as well as benefits. Singapore also does not allow dual citizenship. Except for those from the US and Eritrea—the only two countries that treat you as a tax slave for life irrespective of where you live—Singaporean residency might be all that you want as your first step to expatriation. My guess based on the above is that Americans and Eritreans hoping to leave their native shores—particularly for citizenship reasons—might find taking citizenship in another country more beneficial and easier to get than from Singapore. Moreover, Singaporeans are becoming increasingly resistant to new emigrants; as a result, by the time your turn to get a passport comes—several years after you move—the laws might have changed. Is Singapore perfect? No. Is it for everyone? No. But shrugging it off just because it does not allow the sale of chewing gum is irrational. Jayant Bhandari, a resident of Singapore, is constantly traveling the world to understand it and to look for investment opportunities, particularly in the natural resource sector. He advises institutional investors about his finds. He also runs a yearly seminar in Vancouver titled "Capitalism &amp; Morality." Find him at www.jayantbhandari.com. This article originally appeared at International Man.  Copyright 2014. Follow International Man on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jean-Paul Pelissier An Air France passenger waits to check in at Marseille Airport as the pilot's strike continues.Air France's pilots strike has dragged into a second week, with no end in sight. At a cost of $25 million dollars a day, the strike has not only caused the company to hemorrhage cash, but also put a halt to a plan that could have created significant long-term financial savings for the French national carrier. The strike came in response to the airline's recent announcement of a billion-dollar plan focused on expanding Air France-KLM's Transavia low-cost subsidiary. The project calls for an investment of $1.3 billion over 5 years, as well as the addition of 50 new aircraft and 250 pilots to Transavia's roster by 2017.  Since Transavia pilots will work on a different and less lucrative employment contract, Air France flight crew are demanding all of the company's pilots work under the same compensation scheme. According to the Wall Street Journal, annual compensation for Air France pilots start at $100,000 and can reach $300,000. In addition, Air France flight crews get access to some of the most generous perks in France, including subsidized gourmet meals, reports the BBC.  Pilots are also protesting Air France's plan to open Transavia bases outside of the France that will operate under local and presumably more lax labor regulations.  REUTERS/Jacky NaegelenEmpty Air France planes parked on the tarmac at the Charles de Gaulle International Airport.Although Air France has all but gutted its plans to expand Transavia across Europe, the airline's largest pilot's union has refused to budge until all pilots under the Air France corporate umbrella are on the same labor agreement.  The main reason for the French national airlines decision to focus on low-cost carriers can be attributed to the financial pressure placed upon it by the rise of budget competitors. Low cost airlines like Ryanair, Easyjet, and Norwegian Air Shuttle have grown rapidly over the past few years. With Ryanair and Easyjet both expanding operations at Air France's home base in Paris, the airline's short haul business has been rendered financially unfeasible.  This is an issue that's plaguing all of Europe's major international airlines, such as Lufthansa, British Airways, and KLM. In the last five years, business for Europe's major international carriers has grown by just 3%, but the continent's budget airlines have grown a whopping 54%, reports the Wall Street Journal.RyanairRyanair Boeing 737s.In fact, 5.5 million more people a year fly on budget airlines than on Europe's major international carriers. Not only do these budget airlines offer cheaper fares, they also offer much lower salaries and stingier benefit packages.  As a result, Europe's older airlines are desperate to cut costs to have even a fighting chance at profitability. Air France is not alone in its labor disputes. Pilots for Germany's Lufthansa have also been embroiled in a long-running dispute with their employer. If they strike again to protest retirement benefits, it would be their fifth work stoppage this year.  In the end, both sides believe that they must negotiate a settlement. But there's potentially a long way to go before these issues can be effectively resolved. As the Journal's David Gauthier-Villars writes, "[The]employees say they feel they are being relegated to coach and fear their sacrifices may never be sufficient."  The airline industry, regardless of price point, has drifted towards the low-cost model. Efficiency is the name of the game, and unfortunately, salaries and benefit may be the collateral damage. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersBill Gross, co-founder and co-chief investment officer of PIMCO arrives to speak at the Morningstar Investment Conference in ChicagoNEW YORK (Reuters) - For Bill Gross, quitting Pimco's $222 billion Total Return Fund to take over a $13 million fund at Janus Capital is like resigning the U.S. presidency to become city manager of Ashtabula, Ohio, population 18,800. Gross stunned the investing world on Friday with his abrupt departure from Pimco, the $2 trillion asset manager he co-founded in 1971 and where he had run the Total Return Fund, the world's biggest bond fund, for more than 27 years. Come Monday morning, Gross will join Denver-based Janus and next month will take over its Unconstrained Bond Fund, which was only organized in May. Janus is an asset management firm once known for picking hot Internet stocks. "For Gross, this is a new slate albeit a small one," said Jeff Tjornehoj, senior analyst at Lipper Inc, a unit of Thomson Reuters. Small may be overstating the Janus fund, at least in comparison with the Total Return behemoth. The relationship between the Janus Fund and the Total Return fund is the same as that of the population of Ashtabula with the population of the U.S.: 314 million. At end of August, the Janus Unconstrained fund held only 45 debt issues with 70 percent of its assets in U.S. government debt. One Treasury issue due June 2016 alone was worth 43 percent of the fund's total assets. Most of the bonds have short durations, with the average maturity of just over three years, indicating a generally defensive posture. The current managers of the Janus fund are head of fixed income Gibson Smith and portfolio manager Darrell Walters. It's billed to follow a strategy of "all-weather, credit-driven fixed income investing," according to Janus' website. (https://www.janus.com) By comparison, the Pimco Total Return fund holds more than 6,000 securities, ranging from plain-vanilla Treasuries to complex credit derivatives. Forty-one percent of its holdings were in U.S. government-related securities with the rest spread among riskier debt, including mortgage-backed securities and corporate bonds.   LAGGARDS The two funds do have something in common: weak performance. While Gross more than earned his "Bond King" moniker by outperforming rivals and the broader bond market by a wide margin for most his career, his reputation as a shrewd bond picker has taken a hit in the past year or so. Last year, Pimco's Total Return Fund suffered its biggest annual loss in almost 20 years, declining by a wider margin than the bond market as a whole, which was buffeted by the U.S. Federal Reserve's plans to dial back on its stimulus program. This year, it has delivered a total return so far of 3.59 percent. Still, that lags the wider market as measured by the benchmark Barclays U.S. Aggregate Bond index, which is up 4.19 percent. The fund is trailing 73 percent of its peers. The Janus fund is doing even more poorly, however, stumbling out of the gate since its debut this spring. It lost 0.76 percent in the past three months compared with a 0.48 percent gain for the Barclays Agg, and lags 74 percent of its peers. Getting this fund to grow will be a good measure of Gross's ability to attract money, analysts said. Gross' former Pimco colleague and Janus' chief executive Richard Weil said on Friday he'll look to Gross to build Janus' new global macro fixed income business. Until now, Janus is best remembered for its focus on technology stocks during the late 1990s dot-com boom. "He could pull in a lot of money on reputation alone," said Tjornehoj, referring to Gross's long-term record and his widely read monthly investment newsletter at Pimco. At Janus, Gross will also be free of the recent distractions that have beset him and his old firm. A public falling out between Gross, 70, and former heir-apparent Mohamed El-Erian earlier this year is credited with intensifying investors' flight from the Total Return Fund. They have pulled $70 billion from the fund since last May. On Wednesday, news surfaced that the Securities and Exchange Commission is investigating whether Pimco inflated the returns of its $3.6 billion Total Return exchange-traded fund. Turning around a nascent fund might not be too tall an order, analysts said. For instance, the ETF Gross ran at Pimco had performed much better than the far-larger mutual fund, gaining 6.38 percent over the last 12 months versus 5.19 percent for the mutual fund. Fellow bond maven Jeffrey Gundlach, head of rival firm DoubleLine Capital, often called the "King of Bonds" as opposed to Gross' nickname of "Bond King," told Reuters he expects Gross to perform well at Janus because he "isn't managing a lot of money." Still, if the move to Janus doesn't pan out, analysts are doubtful there's room for yet another reincarnation for Gross. "I don't know if there's a third act for him," Lipper's Tjornehoj said. (Reporting by Richard Leong; Editing by Dan Burns and John Pickering) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersOne of Raytheon's Integrated Defense buildings is seen in San DiegoWARSAW (Reuters) - U.S. weapons maker Raytheon has signed a letter of intent with Polish military software producer WB Electronics to cooperate in bidding for a contract to build Poland's planned anti-missile system, Polish state radio said on its website. Under the agreement, WB Electronics is to provide software for training and tactic simulations for the system, dubbed "Shield of Poland". The two companies would also cooperate in seeking export opportunities. WB was not immediately available for comment. Raytheon, which offers the Patriot missile defense system, is in the running to build Shield of Poland, competing with a consortium of Franco-Italian missile maker MBDA and France's Thales. The cost of the project is estimated at 26 billion zlotys ($7.9 billion). Fifteen years after its admission to NATO, Poland is stepping up military investments, particularly in light of the latest standoff between Ukraine and Russia. Eastern Europe's largest economy wants to raise its defense spending to 2 percent of gross domestic product (GDP) from 2016. (1 US dollar = 3.2955 Polish zloty)  (Reporting by Adrian Krajewski; Editing by David Holmes) FREE AppDownload
