It’s easy to forget that business and commerce have been around for a long time, in fact almost as long as civilization itself. William Playfair—who among other things, invented the bar chart—published a book in 1805 which investigated the causes of decline and fall of wealthy nations. The chart below was in the very front of the book. It’s particularly provocative when read alongside modern attempts to look at the way that the economic productivity of countries changes over time, like this excellent Yearbook of Investment Returns from Credit Suisse. Both excellent works serve as reminders that investors are well served by periodically remembering how dramatically things can change over time. In the graph below, the United States of America is newly ascendant in the international scene: a true emerging market. Russia, England, France, and Germany are the world’s economic powerhouses. China and India are not mentioned. Imgur It’s amazing what can change in a few hundred years, or even in a few decades. To choose an example of a drastic change closer to living memory, did you know there was a time when serious businesspeople doubted that a South Korean company could produce a microwave? In “The Silent War“, a 1990 book about the future of competition in business, the author details what Samsung had to overcome in order to compete. A glance at their market share in products that require highly advanced manufacturing processes, like hard drives and flash memory, makes it almost funny that there exists in living memory a time when serious businesspeople were skeptical they could pull something like that off. In the 45 years since Samsung’s founding, the competitive landscape in business has altered so much it is barely recognizable. The investment ramification of this walk through history is straightforward: what’s changing under your feet? Hit play on the chart below, and watch as the circles (which correspond to a local GDP Growth rate in a given year) and consider how you’d go about making sense of this seemingly random flickering of expansion and contraction. If you had to try and fit it into a chart as simple as Playfair’s, could you? What would you emphasize? (If you can’t see the chart, try refreshing the page or clicking here)
OppenheimerSupply bottlenecks combined with an unusually cold winter have cause natural gas prices to explode by nearly 50% since the beginning of the year. It's by far the hottest commodity in the market. "About half of all U.S. homes use natural gas as their main source of heating fuel, and nearly another 40 percent rely on electricity, which is increasingly being generated from natural gas," said Wells Fargo Securities' Sarah Watt House and Michael Brown. Fortunately for the U.S. consumer, these short-term moves are usually absorbed by speculators in the commodities futures market. "[U]tilities buy natural gas using a mix of short- and long-term contracts, so households should not see their costs jump to the same degree as prices in spot markets," added House and Brown. "Moreover, as a share of overall expenditures, spending on natural gas remains small relative to other energy items," they continued. "In 2012, natural gas services accounted for 0.7 percent of total consumer expenditures versus 5.4 percent on gasoline. Therefore, even with a jump in consumption, the rise in natural gas prices is less likely to take a crippling bite out of more discretionary household spending." While many consumers won't even realize the bump in prices, the numbers will come through in personal consumption data via an increase in utilities spending. And this could take a tick off of the U.S. savings rate. Eventually, this is a short-term story that will soon be forgotten. "[P]rices should come down as we head into the seasonally warmer months," said the economists. It's worth noting that we've seen much higher natgas prices (see chart below).  Again, it's largely been forgotten. Wells Fargo Securities FREE AppDownload
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. GARY SHILLING: Here Are 9 Investments I Like Amid The Current Pessimism (A. Gary Shilling's Insight)  Gary Shilling thinks we're still seeing a "risk on" investment climate, "but the switch from optimism about the economy and stocks at year's end to pessimism so far in 2014 is noteworthy. So is the emerging market deterioration, especially for countries with big current account deficits." With that in mind Shilling thinks nine things make attractive investments right now. 1. Treasury bonds; 2. Selected income-producing securities; 3. Small luxuries; 4. Consumer staples and foods; 5. The dollar against the Canadian and Australian dollars; 6. Selected health care providers and medical office buildings; 7. Low P/E stocks; 8. Productivity enhancers; 9. North American energy producers ex renewables. Meanwhile, he thinks select commodities and developing country stocks and bonds are unattractive. There Needs To Be A Shift In Conversation About Investing (Morningstar)  The stock market has seen a fair amount of volatility this year and many investors are wondering how to position themselves going forward. "We can have a correction any time. Here since the beginning of the year, stocks are down a little over 3%, using the S&amp;P 500 as a yardstick," says Josh Peters, editor of Morningstar DividendInvestor. "That's still a ways to go on the downside to reach the classic definition of a correction being a 10% pullback. Maybe you won't get that far." "There's some bad news that is out there that people weren’t previously incorporating into stock valuations; now that discounting process has begun. I don't expect a repeat of last year. But then again, I didn't have a real strong expectation at the beginning of last year that we were going to see total returns in the low-30% range. Instead, I think you have to shift the conversation. You have to organize your portfolio and your thinking around what is going to matter most for a retirement strategy, whether you're leading up to retirement, saving and investing for retirement, or whether you are already there making portfolio withdrawals. And that's your income." IRA Contributions To Money Market Funds Rise Between January And April (Vanguard)  During 'tax season,' investors are under time constraints to make their IRA contribution for the previous year, but often when they haven't made up their minds the put their money in a money market fund, write Stephen Weber and Maria Bruno at Vanguard. But over two-thirds of last minute contributions to money market funds stays in those funds four months later. "IRA investors could benefit from mirroring the plan sponsor trend toward increasingly making target-date funds their default option for participants," they write. Vanguard These 5 Things Can Help Improve The Efficiency Of Your Practice (WealthManagement.com)  While technology has helped make estate planning more efficient it can also offer numerous distractions. Louis Harrison and Nancy Hughes at Trusts &amp; Estates highlight a few key things that financial planners can do to improve efficiency. We highlighted a few.  1. Learn to step away from the computer and work in a space where you can actually lay out your papers and focus on work.2. Turn off notifications to reduce distractions. 3. Learn to identify the time of the day that you are most productive and reserve that time for the hardest work. 4. Communicate with clients between the phone call and the initial meeting through email or social media or marketing. 5. Don't reply to emails immediately this sets a precedent that could impact your quality of life. Emerging Markets Saw Their 15th Straight Week Of Investor Outflows (Morgan Stanley) Emerging markets saw outflows for the fifteenth straight week, according to the latest report from Morgan Stanley. Investors pulled $6.36 billion from emerging markets, and combined with the $6.33 billion in outflows last week, that would be the largest two-week outflow since January 2008. Morgan Stanley  FREE AppDownload
Mike Nudelman/Business InsiderBarry Silbert's Bitcoin Investment Trust, likely the world's largest bitcoin investment fund, has announced it will begin buying and selling bitcoins on the open market "on a pilot basis." In other words, it will become a market-maker. Previously it had served as a vehicle for passively investing in bitcoins. "SecondMarket is currently buying bitcoin," an announcement on SecondMarket's website says. "Any bitcoin holders interested in selling blocks of bitcoin can benefit from our deep knowledge base of the bitcoin markets." Reached by phone this afternoon, Silbert said SecondMarket was capitalizing on the technical problems and ensuing confidence crisis of the past 48 hours experienced by Mt. Gox, at one point the largest USD-traded exchange in the world. "There wasn't any long-term planning around a pilot for a two-way market, but with the Mt. Gox news, the fact that they were suspending withdrawals, we were getting hit up by people who wanted to buy and sell Bitcoin," he said.  The move puts the Bitcoin Investment Trust and SecondMarket on the path to becoming a full-on exchange — a fully reliable version of which, Silbert says, is currently missing from the bitcoin market. SecondMarket is already a registered broker-dealer. "With Wall Street and institutional investors moving into Bitcoin, there is a clear need for a U.S.-based, regulated, compliant and trustworthy bitcoin exchange. This could be the first step in that direction," he said in a follow-up email.   Silbert said the response to the market-making offer has already been strong. "We were not expecting this amount of incoming interest," he said. "It confirms that there's a real need and a real opportunity for a U.S.-based exchange." The Bitcoin Investment Trust manages $65 million in assets. The average bitcoin price this afternoon was $747. FREE AppDownload
flickr, daviddPeace and Plenty – Finding Your Path to Financial Serenity by Sarah Ban Breathnach is the worst personal finance book I’ve ever read. I have written several personal-finance book reviews in the past year and have found quite a bit positive to say about most of the books, especially emphasizing their usefulness for a particular audience. For those burdened with high-interest debt, for example, I recommend The Money Mentor. For people with a significant net worth wondering whether they can find a low-cost, simple, and sophisticated style, I endorse Investing Demystified: How to Invest without Speculation and Sleepless Nights. For a funny and sensible guide that’s stood the test of time, try The Only Investment Guide You’ll Ever Need. For a Zen-like approach to growing wealthy slowly over a lifetime, I loved Simple Wealth, Inevitable Wealth. Now it’s time to go in a different direction: The Hater’s Guide 2014 Prize for a Horrible Personal Finance book.[1] So far in 2014, the far and away leading contender for this prestigious Hater’s Guide Prize is Sarah Ban Breathnach’s Peace and Plenty. Oh My God this is terrible.  Where to begin? The narrative If you haven’t heard of SBB[2] before, here’s the short version, as Prologue to my review of Peace and Plenty:  SBB career rocketed upward from penniless, struggling author to fame and fortune as the best selling author of Simple Abundance in the mid-1990s. Oprah Winfrey endorsed her Martha-Stewart-of-the-soul approach, combining meditative scrap booking and deeply inhaling peppermint herbal tea as a way to cultivate everyday gratitude. As I learned to say in that gentle, smarmy, voice when I moved to the South – Bless her heart. Fast forward to 2010.  SBB writes in her Introduction to Peace and Plenty that not only is the money all gone, but so is the new British husband (ex-husband #3) – and the English country manor she adores more than anything else in the world.  Since she shares her financial/spiritual crisis at the same time everyone else on the planet is suffering, surely this rags-to-riches-to-rags story will resonate with many? Signs of trouble Even in the opening pages of Peace and Plenty, however, we sense something deeply wrong with this book. And with this author. Let me provide a few examples. She has lately endured annoying collection calls from the celebrity limousine service to which she’s not paid her bills. She is upset by the court case suing her for other unpaid bills, especially when she’s staying at a “lovely Long Beach hotel[3]” about to give a public talk to the “California Women’s Conference.” This organization, she is quick to point out, has featured her photograph on the conference program between Bono and Cherie Blair. SBB cannot stop talking about her English country manor, at one time owned by Sir Isaac Newton.  At the time of her writing she was about to lose her Sir Isaac Newton manor to foreclosure. She’s considering a fire sale on eBay of her extensive Manolo Blahnik footwear collection, but can’t yet bring herself to do it. After the success of her Simple Abundance message she became a millionaire entrepreneur with – in her own words – “10 personal assistants on both sides of The Atlantic.  A journalist at the time pointedly asked her “What’s simple about having 10 assistants?”  She does not have an answer. While I have not read Simple Abundance – the book that made SBB’s reputation – I have a sense from Amazon reviews that this book made a huge impact on millions of women. I endorse her central ideas – cultivating daily gratitude, enjoying simple pleasures, appreciating our blessings every day.  Most of us need more of this. I practice Yoga for exactly this reason.  This is a good thing. In the first few pages we begin to wonder…who are you to teach us about “Simple Abundance?” She is the opposite of someone who appreciates “Simple Abundance” in her own life. Celebrity limousines you can’t pay for, name-dropping your speaking engagements, $100K+ annual rent on a CPW apartment you don’t even live in, blaming your ex-husband for your self-inflicted financial wounds?  Hello?  Hello? The problem with Peace and Plenty is that it exposes the author of Simple Abundance as a narcissistic fraud, an out-of-control materialistic shopaholic – a celebrity wannabe with a deep emptiness. Her personal story OK, so we notice a few warning signs in SBB’s life about personal finance habits.  Is it fair to judge SBB by her personal story, rather than by the strength of her ideas? Yes of course it is fair. Her personal story is all that SBB has to sell. We do not want to judge the book on her personal finance suggestions, because those are horrible Making terrible personal finance choices does not disqualify her from writing a valuable personal finance book – as past mistakes could make present reflections even more powerful.  The entire foundation of Alcoholics Anonymous[4] is based on this, but it requires a “searching and fearless moral inventory – step 4 – early on. SBB lacks any realistic reflection on her personal finance habits. Two examples should help illustrate this absence of reflection. After she divorces her second husband in 1997, SBB moved into a Central Park West apartment that costs more to rent per month than she paid annually to rent her previous apartment.  She acknowledges the extravagance.  And she acknowledges that, with her extensive travel schedule, she probably spent 6 weeks out of that year actually living there. Ok, so what did she learn? In the end she concludes that it was all worth it because – in the weeks following 9/11 – it meant a lot to her and her daughter that she had an apartment on Central Park West to feel better in.  Okay. SBB has a little problem with real estate, as we learn later in the book.  While living in the US, she found the Sir Isaac Newton country manor listing online and made arrangements to visit. She’s always admired Sir Isaac Newton. You should know he’s a kind of historic soul mate – they are close, people, trust her.[5] Without consulting anybody[6] – not her best friend, not her daughter – she made an offer to purchase the country manor on the spot. Again, that personal finance mistake might lead to helpful reflections for the rest of us real-estate buyers out there.  Nope.  In Peace and Plenty she simply mourns for that soon-to-be-foreclosed-on country manor.  Touching the stone wall of Sir Isaac Newton’s country manor that first time made her feel “home.”  Okay. Her advice This is easy to sum up. At this point, you might be thinking I’m exaggerating.  Surely I’m leaving out some of SBB’s practical budgeting ideas, or money saving ideas, or at least ideas about how to duck the bill collector? Nope.  You’re welcome to scrapbook some of your financial ideas (step one) but frankly, SBB finds that too much budgeting requires a reapplication of the Sweet Mercy Medicinal. The writing Do you like a lot of Capitalized Words about Breathy Moments to make you feel like you’re reading a Childhood Classic, such as Winnie the Pooh? Do you enjoy the Absence of Narrative – or Absence of Organization in writing? Are you a devotee of Quotable Women’s Journal Writing from the 1930s? Was everything just Better in the 1930s when Women Brewed a Lot of Tea in their Kitchen and Didn’t Worry So Much About AlL This Complicated Money Talk? If you say yes to all of these, you’ll enjoy the Peace and Plenty writing quite a bit. Ok, now you’re just being mean. No, I’m not.  There’s a serious point to be made here. I actually read this whole book, searching for something, anything, that would explain how it came into print.  Something, anything to explain how an author with these ideas could possibly write a personal finance book. If Peace and Plenty is so bad, you might be wondering, why not just ignore it? Why not let it remain obscure and unknown? Thanks for asking.  Here’s why. She’s not unknown. Sarah Ban Breathnach is a best-selling author[9] who has been endorsed by Deepak Chopra,[10] has been named as one of Oprah Winfrey’s favorite things[11], and has been on Oprah’s show 9 times.  She’s probably received more mainstream media exposure than any of the other authors I’ve ever reviewed. She’s clearly getting her message in front of more people than the authors who actually provide something useful. As a result, millions of people (in her case, 100% of them women) are at risk of taking her seriously when it comes to personal finance. And the advice she gives and the personal example she lives by are horrible. So that’s why I need to call attention to it. Final Note I already know her leading competitor for the 2014 Hater’s Guide Award, although I have yet to read the book. The Millionaire Fast Lane by MJ DeMarco[12] appears to be the front-running competitor to Peace and Plenty, based on this awesome review on Amazon. What I love anticipating is that The Millionaire Fast Lane bookends nicely with SBB’s book as laughably gendered garbage, only from the other extreme.  Just as tea cozies and colorful finance scrapbooks are the central image of Peace and Plenty, a Lamborghini is the central image of The Millionaire Fast Lane.  The insecure overcompensation of this DeMarco guy is just too delicious.  I can’t wait! Financial calamity attaches to both authors and to anyone who tries to follow their advice. Please see related post All Bankers Anonymous Review in One Place This article originally appeared at Bankers Anonymous.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Emerging market funds just saw their 15th straight week of outflows, to the tune of $6.36 billion, according to Morgan Stanley. That's the biggest exodus since August 2011, and it's the fifth largest in history. And combined with last week's $6.33 billion figure, the largest two-week outflow since January 2008. Cumulative outflows totaled $33.3 billion over the past 15 weeks. Investors are fleeing EM over a bunch of different concerns — like macro issues in China and currency stress in Turkey. "At the country level for equities, Thailand, Chile and Poland reported the largest outflows relative to their AUM for the current week," noted Morgan Stanley's Jonathan Garner. "In dollar terms, China (-US$1.14bn), India (-US$0.64bn), Brazil (-US0.63bn) and Russia (-US$0.60bn) reported the largest outflows for the current week." Take a look at the chart from Morgan Stanley: Morgan Stanley FREE AppDownload
APCongress needs to raise the nation's debt ceiling by Feb. 27 to avoid potential default on the country's obligations, Treasury Secretary Jack Lew warned in a letter to congressional leaders on Friday. It comes as House Republicans are formulating their final plan on the debt limit, according to Politico — involving a "doc fix" on Medicare reimbursement rates and reinstituting some military benefit cuts.  The House Republican plan would fix Medicare's Sustainable Growth Rate — the reimbursement rate for doctors who treat patients on Medicare — for nine months. The bill would pay for the fixes with another year of cuts to mandatory spending and changes in federal pension contributions, according to Politico. A House GOP leadership aide told Business Insider he couldn't immediately confirm specifics of the plan. As part of the bill to reopen the government in mid-October, the debt limit was suspended until Friday. The Treasury is now using so-called "extraordinary measures" point to keep borrowing and paying the nation's bills for a few weeks thereafter. "Protecting the full faith and credit of the United States is the responsibility of Congress, because only Congress can extend the nation's borrowing authority. No Congress in our history hasfailed to meet that responsibility, and time is short," Lew wrote in the letter. Here's the full letter from Lew: FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Dylan MartinezIt was another big up-day for markets after a mixed U.S. jobs report. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
China Photos/Getty ImagesPeople pedal past a building shaped as a Chinese ancient coinChina's State Administration of Foreign Exchange (SAFE) ended 2013 with $3.82 trillion in assets under management (AUM).  SAFE is the organization that is responsible for governing the foreign exchange market and managing Forex reserves. Stephen Green at Standard Chartered thinks in 2014 China will continue to see capital inflows, a current account surplus of $394 billion (3.6% of Chinese GDP and 0.5% of global GDP). And, that the People's Bank of China (PBoC) will intervene "If our BoP forecasts for 2014 are correct, and banks continue to sell the dollars that they buy from corporates, SAFE will end 2014 with USD 4.4tn," Green writes. "In other words, 2014 is likely to be the year when China’s BoP re-emerges as a problem for both China and the world." So why is all of this a problem? In the past China's current account surpluses and Forex reserves have been seen as part of Beijing's efforts to keep the exchange rate from appreciating. If China's Forex reserves did climb to $4.4 trillion and we did see the current account surplus rise, "I think that's a disaster for the global economy," Patrick Chovanec of Silvercrest Asset Management told Business Insider. "I think it leaves China more exposed to currencies it doesn't control." "Why should a developing country with one-tenth the per capita GDP of Japan be lending its purchasing power to developed countries? In terms of a standard of living, quality of life issue it makes no sense. If it happens, it's a terrible failure of rebalancing." It also doesn't bode well for the global economy. "It means that the world is that much more starved for demand and that much more flushed with capital. And it tries to preserve the exiting imbalance, which whether it's today, or tomorrow, or the next year, unsustainable," Chovanec said. Of course we have to remember that it's hard to tell the true nature of inflows because it's hard to read trade data where we've seen over-invoicing. As for the central bank, late last year PBoC deputy governor Yi Gang said "it's no longer in China's favor to accumulate foreign-exchange reserves. ...The marginal cost of accumulating foreign reserves has exceeded marginal gains." Here's a chart that shows the trajectory of China's external imbalance: Standard Chartered FREE AppDownload
Argentina's Merval is down 5.4%, and today's drop was the biggest since November 2013. "The official peso gained as banks sold dollars to comply with a measure published Feb. 4 requiring them to reduce foreign-currency holdings to 30 percent of assets and cut futures contracts on foreign currency to 10 percent of portfolios by April 30," reports Camila Russo at Bloomberg.  Of course Argentina is one of the emerging market countries that suffers from "serial mismanagement by the authorities" which now poses a "risk to economic stability," according to Capital Economics' Neil Shearing. Argentina continues to face the risk of a currency crisis and sees strains in balance of payments. Here's a five-day chart that shows the recent plunge: YahooFinance FREE AppDownload
Tim Boyle/Getty ImagesNew Federal Reserve data shows that consumer credit balances expanded by $18.756 billion in December. This was much more than the $12.0 billion expansion expected by economists. Revolving credit balances, which include things like credit cards, increased by $5 billion. This was the biggest gain in seven months. Non-revolving balances, which include things like auto and student loans, grew by $13.8 billion. The financial crisis was followed by sharp contraction in credit balances. This so-called balance sheet recession put tremendous pressure on the economy. According to Bloomberg, this was the biggest gain in consumer credit balances since February 2013. All of this confirms that the balance sheet recession is over. FREE AppDownload
Just in time for Valentine's Day, billionaire activist investor Carl Icahn is showing his love and appreciation for Apple CEO Tim Cook, and the $14 billion worth of stock the company just bought back. Icahn has been buying up Apple stock for months now, building a position, and he's been loud about how he thinks the company should be using its cash to buy back stock. Of course, that pumps up the stock price, and make shareholders (like him) wealthier. So of course, Icahn is happy about the $14 billion news, and tweeted as much Friday afternoon.   $GOOG @ 19x2014 est operating profit. At same multiple $AAPL=$1,245 per share. Ridiculous. Keep buying Tim! You still have $145 billion cash Icahn addressed that in a Tweet too (sort of). Tim Cook again confirms $AAPL will launch new products in new categories (plural) this year. Wall Street apparently still not listening. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Scott AudetteSpace shuttle EndeavorThings are looking up in the markets. The Dow is up 140 points (0.9%), the S&amp;P 500 is up 20 points (1.1%), and the Nasdaq is up 62 points (1.5%). This comes after a mixed January jobs report. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics' establishment survey, the U.S. economy added just 113,000 jobs in January, missing expectations for a gain of 180,000. However, according to the household survey the unemployment rate fell to 6.6% from 6.7% even as the labor force participation rate rose to 63.0% from 62.8%. "The two US employment surveys painted a different picture of the health of labor markets in January," said Barclays Michael Gapen. "On balance, we see the report as indicating that moderate job growth remains in place, which, in our view, will keep the unemployment rate on a downward path and the Fed on a trajectory of further reductions in its asset purchases." "We view this report as a temporary lull in hiring the last two months," said Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi's Chris Rupkey. "The trend rate of jobs creation is the 2.322 million jobs created in 2013, an average of 193K per month. GDP is 2% something, but the economy is still finding work for people out there. Our bet is the economy is stronger than today’s headline numbers, and the Fed will soon be thinking it needs to exit from stimulus policies sooner rather than later." U.S. futures were green ahead of the U.S. jobs report with Dow futures up by 49 points. After the ugly U.S. jobs report came out, they tanked sending Dow futures in the red by around 28 points. But then they turned around. FREE AppDownload
Valentines Day, screenshotIt isn't that bankers are particularly insensitive people. It's just that they're very busy — and the way they see it, it's only Valentine's Day obviously, so their date will get over it, right? Wrong. Even if screwing up Valentine's Day doesn't end with tears and regret, it makes a big check mark on the "reasons-why-I'm-so-over this-relationship" tally. To avoid this, Business Insider reached out to veteran Wall Streeters to get a sense of what they've done horribly, horribly wrong on Valentine's Day and how they've tried to rectify it. Pro tip: You can't recover from having your assistant ask your date out for you. When the bankers ran out of ideas (it was quick), we turned to our friends at InsideHook, a men's lifestyle newsletter for gentlemen of a certain caliber — the caliber that does not ruin Valentine's Day. In fact, the Inside Hook man ends up in the Valentine's Day Hall of Fame. You want to get into the Hall of Fame. FREE AppDownload
On Monday, a bunch of Yale students interrupted Nobel Prize winning economist Robert Shiller's class with a completely obnoxious prank, but Shiller seems pretty chill about it. "I was a little thrown off by the pranksters, but, after all, wasn't too much bothered by it," Shiller told Business Insider. Not sure if we'd be as smooth. As Shiller was a lecturing, a bunch of cell phones started going off. One student shouted, "Rise!" Then a bunch of students stood up, holding bells. A boy and a girl walked down to the podium. They handed Shiller a few things — a paper and a scroll. Then one students said, “For talking about your Nobel Prize more than anyone else, we present you with the Yes-bell Prize." Really clever. "The accusation that I talked too much about the Nobel Prize isn't about a mortal sin," Shiller said. "I can live with criticism like that." Okay Professor, if you're cool, we're cool. For now. FREE AppDownload
Morgan StanleyVeteran bond fund manager Jeff Gundlach recently pointed us to the chart that he looks at when he gets up every morning. It's an overlay of the US dollar / emerging-market currency exchange rate and the yield on the 10-year Treasury note. Gundlach noted that there has been a remarkably tight correlation between the two measures with the currency cross acting as a slight leading indicator of the 10-year yield, which is the benchmark for almost every important interest rate in the world. Last month when he last spoke of this chart, the currency cross was signaling a decline in the 10-year yield. And as Gundlach correctly predicted, that yield has been tumbling toward the 2.5% level he targeted. However, the correlation in this chart appears to have broken down. Earlier today, Morgan Stanley's Rashique Rahman circulated an up-to-date version of this chart showing the currency cross trending higher as the 10-year yield sinks (see above). “You’re correct that the relationship has broken down after being nearly perfectly correlated last year," Gundlach said to Business Insider today. "That’s why we’ve been following it: to see when and how it would break down.  This breakdown suggests that the 2013 markets playbook will not be the winning playbook for 2014 – as evidenced, for example, by bonds outperforming stocks so far.” During his January 14 webcast, Gundlach unveiled a series of contrarian market calls that have been doing quite well. His prediction that the 10-year Treasury note yield would fall flew in the face of Wall Street's consensus for it to rise to 3.4%. He also warned that the stock market appeared to be topping, which it did one day later. The S&amp;P 500 is down nearly 100 points from its January 15 all-time high of 1,850. Also, gold has been trending higher.  Wall Street thinks it'll fall to $1,220. Gundlach sees $1,350. FREE AppDownload
Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from CRT Capital)Following a 28% rise to all-time highs in 2013, the S&amp;P 500 is in the red so far in 2014. Naturally, everyone wants to know what is driving the sell-off. Ian Lyngen, a senior government bond strategist at CRT Capital, relays the results of a survey of clients conducted this week that sought to answer this question. Respondents were pretty split in their views. "Our special questions asked if the recent risk sell-off vs. Treasury rally was a short-term profit-taking event or more thematic," says Lyngen. "40% said profit-taking with the balance, 60%, saying thematic." The chart shows what themes respondents perceive to be at work in the marketplace. "When asked what themes were at hand, we got the most votes for weakness in global markets — EM and China specifically cited — with 36% of the blame," says Lyngen. "Following on that was tapering by the Fed with 24%, and then strategic allocations to lock in risk performance with 20%. 10% went to weaker U.S. data due to weather, with another 10% to 'other.' Other in this case was largely about positions and a generic weaker outlook for the U.S." Respondents to the survey see these themes playing out for several more months. "Finally, we asked how long this lasts, and here the average came to about four months, with surrounding commentary about letting QE wind down further and waiting to see how EM and economies in general develop," says Lyngen. FREE AppDownload
As millions of Chinese attempt to return home after New Year celebrations, irate travelers are seen smashing computers and chairs at one airport A “riot” broke out at a major Chinese airport on Thursday night after more than 2,000 passengers were left stranded because of heavy snow. Furious, marauding passengers were seen “smashing computers and chairs” at Xinzheng International Airport in Zhenghou, Henan province, the Global Times newspaper reported. One passenger gained access to the airport’s control room where she “beat” staff and doused one employee with an unidentified beverage, the Henan Business Daily said. “Are you allowed to vandalise an airport just because your plane is delayed?” asked one incredulous micro-blogger. “Why didn’t the police take action?” Photographs posted on Chinese social media showed the aftermath of the disturbance, which came during the annual travel rush at the end of Chinese New Year festivities. The images showed passengers clambering over check-in counters, debris scattered over the airport’s main concourse and police apparently trying to calm the crowds. One picture showed a sign for Southern Airlines that appeared to have been half-ripped from the wall while another showed people sitting on top of an X-ray machine. The violence came on the last day of China’s seven-day “Spring Festival” holiday as tens of millions of travellers attempted to return home after visiting relatives during the Lunar New Year celebrations. At around 4.30pm heavy snow forced Zhengzhou’s airport to close and caused around 100 flights to be delayed, according to local reports. Between then and 10pm, when the airport reopened, irate passengers reportedly vented their anger by hurling furniture and equipment around the packed terminal. One exasperated airport employee took to the Twitter-like micro-blog Weibo to voice her outrage at what state media labelled a “riot”. “We have been working for 24 hours, non-stop, without closing our eyes,” the woman wrote, in a post that was later deleted. “We dare not go outside [the office] since we would be surrounded and verbally abused.” China’s commercial airline industry has been growing at breakneck pace since the turn of the century and the country is expected to have at least 230 airports by the end of next year. Yet the industry has struggled to keep up with demand, leading to frequent delays and increasingly violent episodes of “air rage”. The pressures on airports are particularly severe during the 40-day “Spring Festival” travel season. This year Chinese travellers are expected to undertake a massive 3.62 billion trips between mid-January and the end of February. In March last year a British businessman recounted witnessing an elderly man being applauded by other passengers after he attacked a stewardess in response to a four hour delay. “He went completely mental and stormed up the plane and into the business class. I heard a punch and looked up and he was attacking the stewardess," Graham Fewkes told Hong Kong’s South China Morning Post. “What surprised me was that passengers were applauding as the man was hitting her.” Such attacks have prompted drastic measures. Hong Kong Airlines now requires its staff to undergo six hours mandatory training in Wing Chun, a martial art. “Kung Fu training is widely seen as a way of responding to [air rage],” state media reported last year. “Many believe it will make angry travellers think twice about resorting to violence.” On Friday, Chinese internet users greeted reports of the riot with a mixture of anger and understanding. “While we should condemn all the smashing, making passengers wait for hours, without offering them an explanation, food or accommodation [is unacceptable],” wrote one. “How could they expect those with hot-tempers to keep their cool?”  FREE AppDownload
viviandnguyen / Flickr Almost 40% of Americans get less than 7 hours of sleep a night, a recent Gallup poll found, and an estimated 70 million Americans have a sleep disorder.  Everyone knows that it's important to get enough sleep — but you may not realize just how many things can go wrong when you don't. Here are 25 unfortunate risks of partial and total sleep deprivation, some more common than others. "Complaints of irritability and [emotional] volatility following sleepless nights" are common, a team of Israeli researchers observed. They put those complaints to the test by following a group of underslept medical residents. The study found that the negative emotional effect of disruptive events — things like being interrupted while in the middle of doing something — were amplified by sleep loss. Source: Sleep, 2005 Scientists don't yet know exactly why sleep deprivation leads to headaches — but it's a connection doctors have noticed for more than a century. Migraines can be triggered by sleepless nights, and 36 to 58% of people with sleep apnea wake up with "nondescript morning headaches." Source: Headache, 2003; Headache, 2005 Sleepiness has long been an issue among adolescents. One study of middle school students found that "delaying school start times by one hour, from roughly 7:30 to 8:30, increases standardized test scores by at least 2 percentile points in math and 1 percentile point in reading." But it's not just kids. Short-term memory is a crucial component of learning, and sleep deprivation significantly impaired the ability of adult volunteers to remember words they'd been shown the day before. In another study, researchers found that while people tend to improve on a task when they do it more than once, this isn't true if they are kept awake after they try it the first time — even if they sleep again before doing it again. Source: Nature, 1999; Nature Neuroscience, 2000; Education Next, 2012 People who are underslept seem to have hormone imbalances that are tied to increased appetite, more cravings for high-calorie foods, a greater response to indulgent treats, and a dampened ability to control their impulses — a very dangerous combination. It's true that you burn more calories when awake, but not nearly enough to cancel out the many excess calories you consume when exhausted. Source: Journal of Clinical Endocrinology &amp; Metabolism, 2012; PLOS Medicine, 2004; Nature Communications, 2013; PNAS, 2013 Sleep deprivation is associated with tunnel vision, double vision, and dimness. The longer you are awake, the more visual errors you'll encounter, and the more likely you are to experience outright hallucinations. Source: International Journal of Occupational Medicine and Environmental Health, 2010 When researchers kept people awake for 88 hours, their blood pressure went up — no big surprise there. But even subjects who were allowed to sleep for 4 hours a night had an elevated heart rate when compared to those getting 8 hours. Concentrations of C-reactive protein, a marker of heart disease risk, increased in those fully and partially deprived of sleep. Source: Journal of the American College of Cardiology, 2004; PLOS ONE, 2009; Sleep Medicine Reviews, 2012 Your reaction time is severely impeded when you don't get enough sleep. When researchers gave West Point cadets two tests that require quick decision-making, some were allowed to sleep between the tests, while others were not. Those who had slept did better the second time — those who had not did worse, and their reactions slowed down. A study in college athletes found similar results. Source: Sleep, 2009; Asian Journal of Sports Medicine, 2012 You know that great thing your immune system does, where when you get an open wound of some kind it doesn't always get infected immediately? Prolonged sleep deprivation and even one night of sleeplessness can impede your body's natural defenses against microorganisms. Source: American Journal of Physiology, 1993; The FASEB Journal, 1996 Planning to make some changes to your portfolio? You might want to make sure you're well-rested. "A single night of sleep deprivation evoked a strategy shift during risky decision making such that healthy human volunteers moved from defending against losses to seeking increased gains," researchers concluded. Source: The Journal of Neuroscience, 2011 When people sleep, the body slows down its normal urine production. This is why most people don't have to pee in the night as much as they do during the day. But when someone is sleep deprived, this normal slowdown doesn't happen, leading to what researchers call "excess nocturnal urine production." This condition may be linked to bed wetting in children and, in adults, it's tied to what's called nocturia — the need to use the bathroom many times during the night. Source: American Journal of Physiology, 2010; American Journal of Physiology, 2012 Having trouble paying attention to what you're reading or listening to? Struggling with anything that requires you to truly focus? "Attention tasks appear to be particularly sensitive to sleep loss," researchers have noted. If you want to stay alert and attentive, sleep is a requirement. Otherwise, you enter "an unstable state that fluctuates within seconds and that cannot be characterized as either fully awake or asleep," and your ability to pay attention is variable at best. Source: Archives of Italian Biology, 2001; Seminars in Neurology, 2009 Vaccines work by spurring your body to create antibodies against a specific virus. But when you don't sleep, your immune system is compromised, and this doesn't work quite as well. In one small study, 19 people were vaccinated against Hepatitis A. Ten of them got 8 hours of sleep the following night, while the rest pulled an all-nighter. Four weeks later, those who had slept normally had levels of Hepatitis A antibodies almost twice as high as those who'd been kept awake. Another study found that a sleepless night did not have a long-term effect on immunity after a flu vaccine, it concludes that the effect might be specific to certain diseases. "Sleep should be considered an essential factor contributing to the success of vaccination," the Hep A researchers wrote. Source: Psychosomatic Medicine, 2003; Journal of Immunology, 2011; BMC Immunology, 2012 Severe sleep deprivation might make you sound like a bumbling idiot — much like having way too much to drink. "Volunteers kept awake for 36 hours showed a tendency to use word repetitions and clichés; they spoke monotonously, slowly, [and] indistinctly," one study noted. "They were not able to properly express and verbalize their thoughts." Source: Sleep, 1997; International Journal of Occupational Medicine and Environmental Health, 2010 If you're wondering why you're sick all the time and seem to pick up every bug that travels around the office, it's probably because you're not getting enough sleep. When a group of 153 people were exposed to a common cold, those who had gotten less than 7 hours of sleep in the two weeks prior were almost 3 times more likely to get sick than those who'd had 8 or more hours of sleep. How well you sleep is also a factor – those who had spent 92% of their time in bed actually asleep were 5.5 times more likely to catch a cold than those who had been peacefully slumbering 98-100% of the time they were in bed.  Source: Archives of Internal Medicine, 2009 One in 250 Americans suffer from Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD), and sleep deficiencies make its symptoms much worse. Regular sleep loss also makes you more likely to develop both IBD and inflammatory bowel syndrome, which affects an estimated 10-15% of people in the U.S. And patients with Crohn's disease were twice as likely to experience a relapse when they weren't getting enough sleep. Source: World Journal of Gastroenterology, 2013 Drowsy driving is often compared to drunk driving: You really shouldn't do either. "Motor vehicle accidents related to fatigue, drowsy driving, and falling asleep at the wheel are particularly common, but often underestimated," one review concluded. Pilots, truck drivers, medical residents, and others required to stay awake for long periods of time "show an increased risk of crashes or near misses due to sleep deprivation."   Source: Seminars in Neurology, 2009 Testosterone is an important component of sexual drive and desire in both women and men. Sleeping increases testosterone levels, while being awake decreases them. Sleep deprivation and disturbed sleep, consequently, are associated with reduced libido and sexual dysfunction, and people suffering from sleep apnea are at particular risk. Source: American Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology, 2007; Behavioral Brain Research, 2009; Journal of Sexual Medicine, 2009; Sleep Medicine, 2010; Brain Research, 2011  People in pain — especially those suffering from chronic pain — tend not to get enough sleep. This makes sense: Pain can wake you up in the night and make it hard to fall asleep in the first place. But recently, researchers have begun to suspect that sleep deprivation may actually cause pain or at least increase people's sensitivity to pain. One study found that after research subjects were kept awake all night, their pain threshold — the amount of painful stimulus they were able to endure — was lower. Source: Journal of Sleep Research, 2001; Sleep Medicine Reviews, 2006  Being awake when your body wants you to be asleep messes with your metabolism, which in turn increases your risk for insulin resistance (often called "pre-diabetes") and type 2 diabetes. "Interventions to extend sleep duration may reduce diabetes risk," one study in adolescents concluded. And four large studies in adults found a strong association — though not a cause-effect relationship — between regular sleep loss and the risk of developing diabetes, even after controlling for other habits that might be relevant. Source: Journal of Applied Physiology, 2005; Sleep, 2012; Annals of Internal Medicine, 2012 Most people notice that when they're sleepy, they're not at the top of their game. One study found that one sleepless night contributed to a 20-32% increase in the number of errors made by surgeons. People playing sports that require precision — shooting, sailing, cycling, etc. — also make more mistakes when they've been awake for extended periods of time. Source: The Lancet, 1998; Physiology &amp; Behavior, 2007 Scientists are just beginning to investigate the relationship between sleep and cancer, and different kinds of cancer behave differently. But since disrupted circadian rhythm and reduced immunity are direct results of sleep deprivation, it's no surprise that preliminary research seems to indicate that people who don't get enough sleep are at increased risk for developing certain kinds of cancer, most notably colon and breast cancers. Source: Journal of the National Cancer Institute, 2003; Pathologie-biologie, 2003; Cancer, 2011; AAOHN Journal, 2011  Sleep disruptions in the elderly can lead to structural changes in the brain that are associated with impaired long-term memory — and sleep-related memory deficits have been observed in the general adult population as well. As early as 1924, researchers noticed that people who slept more forgot less. Poor sleep and not enough of it have also been linked to higher levels of ß-Amyloid, a biomarker for Alzheimer's. Source: Cell Signal, 2012; Nature Neuroscience, 2013; JAMA Neurology, 2013 A 2013 study shed some light on why sleep is tied to so many different aspects of our health and wellness. Poor sleep actually disrupts normal genetic activity. After one week of sleeping less than 6 hours per night, researchers found that more than 700 genes were not behaving normally, including some that help govern immune and stress responses. Some genes that typically cycle according to a daily (circadian) pattern stopped doing so, while others that don't normally follow a daily pattern began doing so. What does this mean? Just one week of less-than-ideal sleep is enough to make some of your genetic activity go haywire. Source: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 2013 In a classic study led by Nobel Prize-winning psychologist Daniel Kahneman, a group of 909 working women kept detailed logs of their moods and day-to-day activities. While differences in income up to $60,000 had little effect on happiness, a poor night's sleep was one of two factors that could ruin the following day's mood. (The other was tight deadlines at work.) Another study reported higher marital happiness among women with more peaceful sleep, although it's hard to say whether happy people sleep better, better sleep makes people happier, or — most likely — some combination of the two. Insomniacs are also twice as likely to develop depression, and preliminary research suggests that treating sleep problems may successfully treat depressive symptoms. Source: Science, 2004; Behavioral Sleep Medicine, 2009; Journal of Affective Disorders, 2011 Many health problems are associated with sleep deprivation and poor sleep, but here's the big one: People who consistently do not get 7-8 hours of sleep are more likely to die during a given time period. Put more simply: We all die eventually, but sleeping too little — or even too much — is associated with a higher risk of dying sooner than you otherwise might.  Source: Sleep, 2010; Sleep Medicine Reviews, 2010  FREE AppDownload
Bank of America sent a San Francisco woman an expletive-laced credit card offer that referred to her as a "sl*t." The envelope was addressed to "Lisa Is A Sl*t McIntire" and inside, the letter read, "Lisa Is A Sl*t McIntire, you've earned this special offer." It went on to offer her a Visa Cash Rewards credit card. Here's a photo of the envelope: Hi @BofA_Help. I just received a credit card offer from you that addressed me as “Lisa Is A Slut McIntire.” pic.twitter.com/7OeNZSlNhX Um. pic.twitter.com/koYjGsoF1m After McIntire tweeted a photo of the letter, Bank of America's twitter account responded: "We're incredibly sorry this happened and are researching now so we can take the appropriate action." Here's the letter itself: It's a credit card offer, apparently? I am still discomfited. pic.twitter.com/h1qGPtB15P FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Alexander BaxevanisDo you love coffee? I see many heads nodding now. Yet, funny how that statement can stem from so many reasons. I say that from my own experience, as it ranged from "oh my God I need it to stay awake" kinda love in 2007, to "my preferred blend is 70% Arabica 30% Robusta for my double shot cappuccino done properly with a good crema" today. Suffice to say, my appreciation for coffee has increased throughout the years, especially since I discovered that good coffee, properly made, shouldn't have a hint of bitterness in it. Yes, without addition of sugar! What's most interesting, however, is the endless debates about coffee's effectiveness in boosting productivity. With a recent study published by researchers at John Hopkins University stating that coffee may aid memory, you must be jumping for joy at the chance of having more caffeine in your system. Hold that thought for a second.As a coffee fan, I've experimented with the frequency and dosage of caffeine, monitoring it's effect on my focus and productivity on my work and CFA studies since 2007. I'm not here to provide scientific research and evidence of either camp (as they could be biased depending on who funds the research itself), but rather share my personal experience and learnings over 7 years of self experiment, to provide you some guidelines on what has worked for me so far. Here's my 3 step plan to master the double-edged sword of coffee (or caffeine). Yes, you heard me. And yes, it will be the longest 1 month in your life, especially the first 2 weeks. For this to work best, don't trust yourself - please have a trusted friend, partner or study buddy to watch over you, because you'll see a side of yourself you've never seen before (see above picture, that's how Zee described me during this phase). For someone that consumes (only) one cup of double shot flat white or cappuccino on a daily basis, I struggled the first week and begged, negotiated and even tried to bargain for the right to have a cup of coffee. Like an addict (I didn't realize how dependent I was on coffee then), the excuses were numerous: Zee, being a strict, solid observer and trusted Coffee Police Officer, just said these in response: All in all, I started to replace green tea for my daily warm drink and started to give up fighting about it. As much as I hate to admit it, it is partly psychological. I never needed coffee to do work, wake up or just get going - I'm just dependent on it to get things moving as it became a habit.  300 HoursNow that you've been awesome and disciplined within the first month, you deserve a reward, yay! Choose your favorite day of the week, and allow yourself a nice cup of coffee - yes just one cup. Tactically, it may be best to do that on weekends where you're in the middle of CFA revision.This is an important step, as it will form your habit going forward (and save lots of money too). With only 1 cup a week, you grow to appreciate and be picky with what you drink, and savor every last drip of it. Now that you're no longer dependent on coffee, the relationship changes to something better - you drink it slowly, starting to notice its taste and smell, recognizing it as a little reward for the hard work you've ahead. Most importantly, you will start to notice a stronger effect that coffee has on your focus and productivity. It's like when you'd your first cup years ago: you feel energetic, keen to get things done and can focus for a longer time. You no longer feel sluggish without coffee, but having a little once a week does give you that boost when you need it. If you feel jittery, it means your weekly dosage is too much and you should tone it down till you achieve a comfortable zen-like focus in your studies - some call it 'being in-the-zone'.It's pretty empowering, to know that you've conquered your caffeine addiction. You will now realize that this is what people mean when they say that coffee is a double-edged sword, and why all those studies on coffee have been inconclusive all these while. There is an optimal level of coffee (or caffeine) consumption to maximize productivity, i.e. there is diminishing marginal returns to coffee consumption. This is an optional phase, left only to the most disciplined of you lot out there, simply because there is a danger that you may slip and go back to having coffee once a day where it's effect is nullified and you're back to the grumpy, needy caffeine monster you once were. However, if you're up for the challenge, and confident that you can be honest with yourself and continuously monitor your coffee consumption to avoid Step 1 again, read on. Doing Phase 3 correctly can further boost your Phase 2 productivity.Inspired from the concept of HIIT in fitness training, this means that you could be more creative on the schedule of consumption: The goal of this phase, if you choose to use it, is to practice self-awareness and monitor how coffee consumption affects your focus and effectiveness in your work. If done correctly and honestly, you will learn not just to enjoy coffee, but to use it effectively as a weapon to help focus and aid memory in your quest to becoming a CFA charterholder.   FREE AppDownload
Steps from the Barclays Center, Diamante's Brooklyn Cigar Lounge is an old school, late-night hot spot for Brooklyn Nets players run by the 'man with the golden voice' and the arena's announcer, David Diamante. He gave us some tips for channeling your inner Bogart while lighting up a stogie. Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis. Additional camera by Graham Flanagan. Follow BI Video: On YouTube
UniversalYikes.The unemployment rate is falling really fast. This morning, we learned it had declined to 6.6% — the 23rd-straight month without an increase. As Brooking's and UMichigan's Justin Wolfers observes, the rate has dropped 1.3% over the past year — an insane acceleration from 2012's decline of just 0.3%.   "Only three other times in the past six decades has the unemployment rate fallen this far this fast: in the early 1950s, when growth averaged 6.7% per annum; in the late 1970s when GDP growth averaged 4.8%, and in the mid-1980s when growth averaged 5.2%," said Gluskin Sheff's David Rosenberg to the U.S. Senate Budget Committee earlier this week. In those other three instances, growth was robust. This time around, he says, we should probably be concerned about what's causing the plunge. "Today we accomplished this feat with only 2.4% growth which is disturbing because it means that it is not taking much in the way of incremental economic activity to drain valuable resources out of the labor market," Rosenberg continued. Most economists attribute the decline in unemployment to the drop in the labor force participation rate (LFPR) — the measure of those employed or looking for work divided by the working-age population. And the drop in the LFPR has been due to a combination of aging demographics and an expanding group of discouraged workers walking away from the job market. Rosenberg added in his testimony that the patchwork of state and federal benefits program might be distorting the signal sent by the LFPR as it may be incentivizing some people to stay out of the labor market.  "One theory that deserves examination is that we may have an abundance of separate benefits programs that provide for the disenfranchised in a very piecemeal and inefficient manner that are also perhaps abused or overly relied upon by some, which may lead to a distortion of work incentives," he said. Still, if we get to the point where we have a shortage of labor, we could see wage growth surge, which in turn could stoke inflation and pressure corporate profit margins. Everyone's inclination will remain to keep an eye on these figures. Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis FREE AppDownload
Just 113,000 workers were added to nonfarm payrolls, well under the 180,000 consensus, according to this morning's January jobs report. The private-sector hired a net 142,000 workers, meaning that the government shed 29,000 public sector jobs. That's in line with the trend as of late. The private sector is hiring and the public sector is firing. Check out the chart from FTN Financial's Chris Low. FTN Financial FREE AppDownload
One of the big memes over the last year was that Obamacare was creating a nation of part-time workers, as companies reduced workers' hours below the level at which companies would be obligated to provide health insurance. For anyone who thinks that, here's a chart. It shows the change in full-time jobs over the past year versus the change in part-time jobs. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg) FREE AppDownload
Michelle McLoughlin/ReutersOn Monday a group of Yale students interrupted Professor Robert Shiller's Intro to Macroeconomics class with a sad attempt to mock him for talking about his Nobel Prize during class, according to a columnist in the Yale Daily News. Here's how it went down: As Shiller was a lecturing, a bunch of cell phones started going off. One student shouted, "Rise!" Then a bunch of students stood up, holding bells. A boy and a girl walked down to the podium. They handed Shiller a few things — a paper and a scroll. “For talking about your Nobel Prize more than anyone else, we present you with the Yes-bell Prize,” said one of the bell-carriers. After that, a number of students grabbed their belongings and left. No one laughed. Why would you? It sounds ridiculous. Shiller won the Nobel Prize for Economic Sciences last year for essentially predicting two of the biggest financial bubbles of our time — the dot.com bubble and the housing bubble. You can read all about it in his book, "Irrational Exuberance." "He found that stock prices fluctuate much more than corporate dividends, and that the ratio of prices to dividends tends to fall when it is high, and to increase when it is low," said the Nobel Committee. "This pattern holds not only for stocks, but also for bonds and other assets. Exciting stuff. I'd talk about it all day. Shiller doesn't though, he spends some of his days teaching an Intro to Macroeconomics class to a bunch of 18- and 19-year-old kids. Brilliant kids, but just kids. Anyone else can benefit from his teaching too, because Shiller put all the lectures from his 2008 class online for free.  Key year. What that all says is that Shiller is an individual who cares about enriching the world. He does not lock himself in an ivory tower as many Ivy League professors do. What he knows is useful, it is impactful, it is vital that we understand it — and so he shares it. For students to show any disrespect for that suggests an incredibly rotten sense of entitlement. Zach Young, a guest columnist for the Yale News, agrees. He called the prank "the glorified bullying of a Yale professor." He writes: As a faculty member, Shiller deserves a baseline of respect. The success of any class depends on an environment of trust and respect. Trust allows students and faculty to openly share their ideas and questions without fear of being judged. A sense of mutual respect makes academic debate, which aims to arrive at a better understanding of the material, possible. By mocking him, the bell-ringers violated the trust and respect that underlies constructive learning, and dismissed Shiller’s experience as an educator. They broke an unwritten rule at the core of the student-teacher relationship. Plus it doesn't sound funny. If you're going to be a brat, at least be funny. Shiller, for his part, is taking this whole thing in stride, for what it's worth. FREE AppDownload
Lots and lots of vitriol spewing over at the Bitcoin subreddit lately — Apple's decision to shun Bitcoin apps has Redditors heaping negative criticism upon the company. Here's a look at just some of the stuff being passed around the Bitcoin discussion page on Reddit. One guy even shot his iPhone in protest. Reddit Screenshot Screenshot  FREE AppDownload
Margin CallThe January jobs report estimated that 113,000 workers were hired to nonfarm payrolls in January, well below the consensus Wall Street estimate of 180,000. The release caused a negative knee-jerk reaction in markets, but traders have faded the initial moves, and S&amp;P 500 futures are now higher than they were prior to the release. Reactions from Wall Street economists and strategists are pouring in. Here's what they are saying (emphases added). ALAN RUSKIN, DEUTSCHE BANK: "The data is not in the sweet spot where global growth concerns are ameliorated, so the data does not fit comfortably with long carry or a full comeback in EM. However, the short EM story has at least temporarily run out of gas. In addition, the market is rightly skeptical about serious weather distortions, and most analysts will expect a serious rebound in U.S. activity in the months ahead. As such, count me as a skeptic that the bond rally will show any follow-through. This should also fit with a degree of equity and overall FX risk resilience." STEVEN ENGLANDER, CITI: "Market is seeing this as somewhat weak data, but the the reaction to the data is much more pronounced at 3-7 year maturities than at 10-year. These middle-maturity yields are significantly lower because labor data are seen as reducing the likelihood that Fed will tighten aggressively. Back to bad news is good news — at least for equities, EM and middle maturities." MILLAN MULRAINE, TD SECURITIES: "Outside of the disappointment on the headline front, the underlying guts of this report were quite encouraging. Beyond the lower unemployment rate — in spite of the surge in labor force participation — gains in aggregate hours worked (up 0.1% m/m) and average weekly earnings (up 0.2% m/m) point to a positive underlying momentum. Other key indicators such as unemployment duration declined, with both median (down from 17.1 weeks to 16.0 weeks) and average (down from 37.1 weeks to 35.4 weeks) unemployment duration measures falling significantly. The employment-to-population ratio also rose, climbing to its highest level since late 2012 at 58.8%. Finally, the alternate measure of unemployment (the U-6) declined precipitously, falling to a new cycle low of 12.7% from 13.1%, suggesting further strengthening in labor market momentum. Outside of the disappointment on the headline payroll front, and especially the weak performance in service-sector employment, the underlying guts of this employment report were unusually strong. The report showed broad-based improvement in a variety of ancillary labor market indicators, pointing to a reduction in labor market slack. For the Fed, this report will confirm their current bias for reducing the pace of asset purchases, consistent with their expectations for the strong momentum in economic activity during the last six months of the year to be sustained in 2014. And as the weather distortions in the data begin to dissipate, we expect the tone of economic data to improve." MICHELLE GERARD, RBS: "In the household survey, the data were updated to incorporate new population estimates from the Census Bureau (this occurs each January). This year, the population control changes were trivial (the numbers below reflect the data as presented by the BLS, not adjusted for the new population estimates). In January, the labor force jumped by 523,000 and employment increased by 638,000. The number of unemployed fell by 115,000. The labor force participation rate increased by 0.2 percentage points to 63.0%. So, the labor force increased but employment also rose sharply, leading to a drop in the unemployment rate to 6.6% (unrounded it fell to 6.584% from 6.681%). Some may speculate that the loss of long-term unemployment benefits may have motivated some individuals to more aggressively seek (and successfully find) employment. In any case, in the household survey, employment has now returned to its pre-recession (December 2007) level (in contrast, payrolls are still 851,000 below their December 2007 level). With respect to the weather, the BLS reported that 262,000 people were unable to work due to bad weather, which is well below the average for January of around 420,000. The BLS also noted that there was 'not a lot' of weather effect in January. That contrasts with December, when 273,000 reported not being able to work due to bad weather, which was above the average of about 140,000 for that month." PAUL ASHWORTH, CAPITAL ECONOMICS: "Looking at the breakdown, retail employment fell by 13,000, while public sector employment fell by 29,000. Those declines will grab the headlines, but the 6,000 dip in education and health is arguably the biggest shock. The health sector has been one of the biggest contributors to job growth over the past few years, but over the past two months ,employment in that sector has fallen. Whether this is an unexpected consequence of the implementation of the Affordable Care Act is open to question. Otherwise, construction employment rebounded by 48,000, following a 22,000 decline in December, which adds to the evidence that the bad weather may have been a factor in December, but wasn't in January. Despite the disappointing gain in payrolls, the unemployment rate nevertheless fell to only 6.6%, from 6.7%. That puts it only fractionally above the 6.5% threshold that the Fed originally used to illustrate when it might first consider raising the fed funds rate. The labour force increased by 523,000, while the household survey measure of employment increased by 638,000. According to the BLS, the incorporation of the new population controls explains only a small fraction of those gains. If anything, we suspected that the expiry of extended unemployment benefits would drive the labour force lower last month." IAN SHEPHERDSON, PANTHEON MACROECONOMICS: "With the household survey — NOT directly comparable to payrolls, but it's all we have — showing 157,000 fewer people than usual kept away from work by the weather, it is hard to pin the blame on the severe winter. The seasonal adjustment, however, was very unhelpful relative to January of last year, for reasons which are not clear. Had last year's January seasonal factor been used this year, private payrolls would have risen by 265,000. The details as published show construction, the sector hit hardest by the weather in December, rebounding. Payrolls rose 48,000, after a 22,000 drop. Manufacturing was solid too (+21,000), so the problem is in private services, up only 66,000 after 102,000 in December and 204,000 in November. Retail, temps and health all much weaker than last fall. This is impossible to square with the robust ISM non-manufacturing employment index and a host of other surveys, including NFIB small business hiring index, now at its highest since September 2007. We have to expect stronger numbers ahead; remember the next FOMC meeting on March 18/19 is after the February jobs report, so these January data, though weak, do not necessarily mean the Fed is set to pause its tapering. Note the unemployment rate dipped because household employment is reported up 638,000. That surely didn't really happen, but the trend in unemployment is down." CHRIS LOW, FTN FINANCIAL: "It’s unusual for the household and payroll surveys to diverge by so much. Maybe the weather not only depressed payrolls in December, but also in January, though that seems unlikely given the rebound in weather-sensitive construction and manufacturing. Or, maybe, some of the people who lost unemployment benefits in January have had jobs all along, they just weren’t the kind of jobs you tell the Labor Department about when there’s a chance you might lose unemployment benefits. Further complicating things, the annual population adjustment was this month. The BLS says it accounts for just a few tens of thousands of the job gains in the household survey in January, but the adjustment has corresponded with unusual household job gains in the past that never showed up in payrolls. The population adjustment boosted nonfarm payrolls in 2013, lifting the monthly average from 182,000 to 194,000. Confused yet? You should be. The market reaction — equity futures and bond yields tumbled on the headlines but climbed back on the details — reflects the conflict between two months of very weak nonfarm payroll growth and three months of very strong household employment. As is occasionally the case with the employment situation report, it could take months to ferret out the truth." More to come as we get it... FREE AppDownload
LijoyX | Flickr Mt. Gox, the Japan-based bitcoin exchange, was forced to halt all Bitcoin withdrawals this morning amid an "increase in withdrawal traffic." According to a memo on Mt. Gox's website, "In order for our team to resolve the withdrawal issue it is necessary for a [temporary] pause on all withdrawal requests to obtain a clear technical view of the current processes. We apologize for the sudden short notice." Prices on the exchange were down as much as 20% — nearly $180. While the issue is now believed to have been pinpointed, this is not the first time Mt. Gox customers have had trouble accessing their accounts. And bitcoin traders have taken notice. According to Max Hampel, a German physics student who was one of the first to spot the withdrawals on his blog CoinWatch, the Bitcoin community may now be ready to give up once and for all on the exchange. "People will be leaving Mt. Gox either way, the trust isn't already very high, and with this now people are going to trust them even less," he said. "I think Mt. Gox is going to lose relevance even more now, they're not very forthcoming in their public relations, their technical problems and their withdrawal problems aren't going away. Even if they fix it now, the withdrawal problem still remains with USD and Euro withdrawals." Once the world's largest bitcoin trading forum, Mt. Gox was processing more than 1 million trades at its peak. But before today, volumes had not broken through 30,000 since January. ClarkMoody Mt. Gox (which actually stands for Magic: The Gathering Online Exchange because site founder Jed McCaleb originally used the site to trade Magic cards), has long been the subject of the Bitcoin community's ire, even at the height of its powers — the first thread for "MtGox withdrawal delays" on bitcointalk.org dates from April 2013. The situation was complicated last fall after federal authorities seized most of the exchange's U.S.-based accounts, accusing it of violating wire transmission laws. Roger Ver, known as Bitcoin Jesus, told Wired Magazine's Robert McMillan and Cade Metz in their November profile of Mt. Gox that despite being friends with Mt. Gox head Mark Karpeles, he would not recommend using the exchange. "Anybody who has enough information about what's going on in the Bitcoin world, you would not buy your bitcoins on Mt. Gox," he said. In an email to BI Friday, Ver said: "Mtgox has been losing marketshare quickly over the last few years. I think this latest glitch will hasten that decline, but for the betterment of the entire Bitcoin ecosystem." Bitcoin users say Karpeles and Mt. Gox have gained a reputation for being unresponsive to the various issues. Wired says Karpeles dropped off of bitcointalk.org in June, and was rumored to have limited his conversations to the obscure Internet Relay Chat forum. Karpeles actually serves on the Board of the Bitcoin Foundation. In an email to BI, the Foundation itself declined to comment on Mt. Gox business issues. Hampel says the fall of Mt. Gox is ultimately a good thing, as other exchanges will be able to learn from its mistakes. "Everyone now is forced to do a better job than them," he said. The bitcoin exchange crown now falls to Slovenia-based BitStamp, which processes nearly twice as many as Mt. Gox. Hampel says the site has proven much more reliable than Mt. Gox ever was. But he says it's a surprising and sad state of Bitcoin that no other country is by now home of a reliable and trustworthy exchange. While there's been talk within U.S. investment circles of setting up a more rigorous exchange, regulatory uncertainty has slowed progress. "People would definitely welcome this — there still is a major opportunity for trusted exchanges," he said. We reached out to Mt. Gox for comment and did not receive a response. The average Bitcoin price this morning is $732. FREE AppDownload
The January jobs report is out, and it was a big miss. 113,000 workers were added to nonfarm payrolls in January, well below the consensus Wall Street estimate of 180,000. The unemployment rate dropped to 6.6% from 6.7% last month. All told, this was the second straight disappointing monthly jobs report, and it's another reminder that the U.S. labor market remains anemic. Bill McBride of Calculated Risk runs a chart every month that puts the jobs recovery into better perspective. "This graph shows the job losses from the start of the employment recession, in percentage terms, compared to previous post WWII recessions," writes McBride. "The dotted line is ex-Census hiring. This shows the depth of the recent employment recession — worse than any other post-war recession — and the relatively slow recovery due to the lingering effects of the housing bust and financial crisis." Calculated Risk FREE AppDownload
jurvetson/FlickrThe nonfarm payrolls report just came out, and it was a big miss. Just 113,000 new jobs were created in January vs. 180,000 expected. But there are two parts to every jobs report. One is the Establishment Survey, where they ask businesses how many people they hired in the month. That's where the 113,000 number came from. But the other part is the Household Survey, where they ask households whether they gained/lost jobs in the month. And that side of this report was amazing. From the report: After accounting for the annual adjustment to the population controls, the civilian labor force rose by 499,000 in January, and the labor force participation rate edged up to 63.0 percent. Total employment, as measured by the household survey, increased by 616,000 over the month, and the employment-population ratio increased by 0.2 percentage point to 58.8 percent. Got that? Households reported 616,000 new jobs in the month, and the participation rate rose. And unemployment fell from 6.7% to 6.6%. And the unemployment rate for those with only a high school education fell from 7.1% to 6.5% in one month! Oh, and the jobs that were created? They were not part-time jobs. In fact, there was a huge drop in people saying they were doing part time hours The number of persons employed part time for economic reasons (sometimes referred to as involuntary part-time workers) fell by 514,000 to 7.3 million in January. As for why there are two parts to the jobs report, and why they can be so different, the BLS explains: The household survey and establishment survey both produce sample-based estimates of employment, and both have strengths and limitations. The establishment survey employment series has a smaller margin of error on the measurement of month-to-month change than the household survey because of its much larger sample size. An over-the-month employment change of about 100,000 is statistically significant in the establishment survey, while the threshold for a statistically significant change in the household survey is about 400,000. So you have to take all of the data. According to establishments, January was pretty meh. According to households, it was a great month. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Octavian CantilliThe U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics just released the January jobs report, and it was a big miss. 113,000 workers were added to nonfarm payrolls in January, below the 180,000 estimate. Average hourly earnings came in at 0.2% month over month, in line with expectations. Year over year, average hourly earnings climbed to 1.9%, above economist expectations of 1.8%. "While everyone else focuses on the non-farm payroll increase and the unemployment rate, I am interested in wage growth and the employment rate," said Kit Juckes, a global strategist at Société Générale, ahead of the report. "Wage growth, depending on which of the BLS series on average earnings I use (they produced a new one in 2006), is meandering sideways in a 1.5-2.3% range," he said. Last month, Capital Economics' Paul Ashworth wrote clients that wage growth is poised to take off this year. "Finally, the survey evidence on future wages is also fairly clear. There has recently been a sharp increase in the proportion of small businesses in the NFIB survey saying that they plan to increase workers compensation, which points to a rapid rise in wage inflation this year," he wrote.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERSThe January jobs report is out. 113,000 workers were hired to nonfarm payrolls in January, below the consensus Wall Street estimate of 180,000. The unemployment rate unexpectedly fell to 6.6% from December's 6.7% reading, and the labor force participation rate rose to 63.0% from 62.8%. In the wake of the release, S&amp;P 500 futures have plummeted into the red and Treasuries are surging, sending yields lower. The dollar is also down sharply against the euro and the yen. Private-sector firms hired 142,000 workers, implying a 29,000 reduction in government employee headcount. December nonfarm payroll growth was revised up to 75,000 from 74,000. Average hourly earnings growth was 0.2% from the previous month in January, as expected, but December's previously-reported 0.2% advance was revised down to 0.0%. On a year-over-year basis, however, average hourly earnings were up 1.9%, slightly above the 1.8% consensus estimate. "The jobs data will be the tone-setting event for the next several weeks with perhaps Yellen the only meaningful nuance to shift expectations that arise on Friday morning," said Ian Lyngen, a senior government bond strategist at CRT Capital, prior to the release. The table below shows the distribution of job gains in January on an industry level. BLS Click here for the full release » FREE AppDownload
Creative Tools Twitter is bearish on today's jobs report.  The median estimate for today's nonfarm payrolls number is 168,000, below the Wall Street consensus estimate of 180,000.  The mean estimate is 163,000, and the standard deviation is 67,421.  These numbers were calculated from 179 tweets using the hashtag #NFPGuesses through 8:12 AM ET this morning.  The jobs report is out at 8:30. Follow the release LIVE on Business Insider »   FREE AppDownload
This past week was a historic one for fund flows — investors pulled a historic amount out of equity funds while at the same time putting a historic amount into bond funds, and over 95% of the flows were in and out of ETFs. Citi analysts Markus Rosgen and Yue Hin Pong relay the details in a note to clients: U.S. funds had record-high inflow into bonds and outflow from equities — In the week ended 2/5/2014, there was a $14.8 billion inflow into bond funds and a $28.3 billion outflow from equity funds, representing record highs in both cases. The inflow into bonds was driven by U.S. bond funds which saw $13 billion of inflow. On the flip side, U.S. equity funds were hit by a $24 billion outflow. More than 95% of these flows were attributed to ETFs. $6.4 billion of outflow from EM funds — This was the 15th week of outflows from EM equity funds and was the largest outflow since August-2010. The major outflow was from GEM funds, at $4.8 billion, while Asia funds had $966 million of outflow. EMEA funds and LatAm funds had respective outflows of $361 million and $199 million. China funds ended a 6-week run of inflows with $132 million of outflow this week. $3.6 billion net selling of Asia equities by foreigners — In the week ended 2/5/2014, foreign net selling in Asia widened as Taiwan and Korea saw over $1 billion of net selling. Thailand was also sold down by $516 million. In Japan, during the week of 1/31/2014, there was a massive $7.0 billion net selling by foreigners. The chart below illustrates the geographic breakdown of equity flows. Japan and Europe equity funds managed to garner inflows this week, but everywhere else, pared back. EPFR Global, Citi Research FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/David MdzinarishviliAnti-government protesters march on the street in Kiev February 6, 2014. The parties in Ukraine's deadlocked parliament agreed on Thursday to try to draft a joint bill on constitutional amendments that could be put to a vote as early as next week, the speaker said. Opposition leaders, backed by protesters in the streets, want a return to a constitution enacted in 2004 that would move substantial powers over the government from the president to parliament - a proposal rejected by President Viktor Yanukovich and his supporters, who have had a majority in the legislature. — Today, we get the release of the official jobs report from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics at 8:30 AM ET. The median estimate of 92 market economists polled by Bloomberg is that 180,000 workers were hired to nonfarm payrolls in January. The unemployment rate is expected to remain unchanged at 6.7%. "The unemployment rate could have held steady at 6.7%, though the expiration of emergency unemployment insurance benefits at the beginning of the month poses risks of a lower number," says Guy Berger, an economist at RBS. "1.35 million claimants lost their benefits after December 31st. If a significant fraction of those former claimants was unemployed in December (i.e. without a job but actively looking for work) but subsequently either took a job or stopped looking for work (thereby dropping out of the labor force entirely), that would exert downward pressure on January's unemployment rate." — The jobs report released today is special because the BLS is releasing annual benchmark revisions to previous months' data alongside it. "The new seasonal factors could materially affect the more recent data," says Ian Shepherdson, chief economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics. "Last year, for example, fourth quarter payrolls were revised up by an average of 50,000 per month. We have no way of knowing whether this will be repeated today, but the potential scale of the revisions means it is even more important than usual to look beyond the January payroll number to see the real story in the report." — The German constitutional court delivered an unexpected ruling on OMT — the ECB's as-of-yet-unused monetary backstop for the eurozone — this morning, expressing concerns that the policy instrument may not be compatible with the mandate of the central bank. It said it would instead refer the case to the European Court of Justice to let it decide on the legality of OMT, and the euro weakened a bit on the news. "The timing and aggressiveness of its stance has taken the markets by surprise," says Marc Chandler, head of global currency strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman. "Just yesterday when asked, Draghi reassured investors that the ECB is well within its mandate and this is most likely based on legal advice and the ECB reiterated that view today. There is a sense that the European Court will not risk the stability that OMT appears to have provided, but it does add a new element of uncertainty." — In the week ended February 5, investors staged a historic move out of stocks and into bonds. Bond funds received $14.8 billion in inflows, while equity funds suffered $28.3 billion of outflows — both record figures. "The inflow into bonds was driven by U.S. bond funds, which saw $23 billion of inflows," say Citi analysts Markus Rosgen and Yue Hin Pong. "On the flip side, U.S. equity funds were hit by a $24 billion outflow. More than 95% of these flows were attributed to ETFs." — S&amp;P 500 futures are higher while U.S. Treasury note futures are slightly lower headed into the release of the jobs report at 8:30 AM. Across Europe, equity indices are rallying, and peripheral eurozone government bond yield spreads are compressing in the wake of the German court ruling, indicating markets are taking it as a good sign (perhaps because the European Court of Justice is more likely to rule that OMT is legal). In Asia, the Japanese Nikkei 225 closed up 2.2% on Friday, and the Hong Kong Hang Seng advanced 1.0%. The dollar is up slightly against the euro and the yen. — December U.S. consumer credit data are released at 3 PM ET. Economists predict total credit expanded by $12 billion after posting a $12.318 billion gain in November. Follow all of the data LIVE on Business Insider » — A client survey conducted by CRT Capital government bond strategists David Ader and Ian Lyngen this week provides some insight on what market participants believe is driving the stock market sell-off. "When asked what themes were at hand, we got the most votes for weakness in global markets — EM and China specifically cited — with 36% of the blame," says Lyngen. "Following on that was tapering by the Fed with 24%, and then strategic allocations to lock in risk performance with 20%. 10% went to weaker U.S. data due to weather, with another 10% to 'other.' Other in this case was largely about positions and a generic weaker outlook for the U.S." — LinkedIn shares are down more than 6% in pre-market trading following the release of earnings results for the quarter ended December 31. Although the company beat analysts' consensus estimates on both the top and bottom lines — reporting earnings per share of $0.39 ($0.38 expected) and revenue of $447.2 million ($437.8 million expected) — the outlook for 2014 was not as upbeat as analysts expected. LinkedIn said it expected to bring in between $2.02 billion and $2.05 billion in revenues this year, below analysts' consensus estimate of $2.17 billion. The company's EBITDA estimates were light as well. — German industrial output unexpectedly fell 0.6% in December from the previous month after advancing an upward-revised 2.4% in November. Economists predicted output would rise 0.3%. On a work-day adjusted year-over-year basis, output advanced 2.6% — below estimates for a 3.5% gain — after rising 3.8% in November. — U.K. industrial output rose 0.4% in December from the previous month after declining by 0.1% in November. However, the number missed expectations of a 0.6% advance. On a year-over-year basis, output rose 1.8%, slowing from a downward-revised 2.1% in November and missing expectations for a 2.3% year-over-year advance. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
David Laferriere(Reuters) - Apple Inc has repurchased $14 billion of its stock in the two weeks since it reported disappointing first-quarter results, a company spokesman said. Apple bought $12 billion of shares via an accelerated share repurchase program (ASR) and $2 billion of shares from the open market, the spokesman said. An ASR usually involves a company buying its shares from an investment bank. The news was first reported by the Wall Street Journal, which interviewed Apple Chief Executive Tim Cook. Cook told the paper that Apple was surprised by the 8 percent decline in its shares on January 28, the day after it reported quarterly results. Apple shares fell after the company reported lower-than-expected holiday-period iPhone sales and issued a weak revenue forecast. With the latest round of repurchases, Apple has bought back more than $40 billion of its shares over the past 12 months, which Cook said was a record for any company over a similar span. (http://link.reuters.com/xas66v) "It means that we are betting on Apple," Cook said. "It means that we are really confident on what we are doing and what we plan to do. We are not just saying that. We are showing that with our actions." The share buyback was part of Apple's plan to repurchase $60 billion of its shares. Excluding the latest purchases, Apple returned $7.7 billion to shareholders through dividends and buybacks in the December quarter, bringing the total under its capital return program to $43 billion. Cook told the paper that Apple would issue updates on its buyback program in March or April. (Reporting by Sakthi Prasad in Bangalore and Eddie Chan in Los Angeles; Editing by Gopakumar Warrier) FREE AppDownload
USDA Congress passes a bill that gives bipartisanship a bad name WHILE Congress was gridlocked it was easy to forget how ugly the smooth functioning of government can be. After a delay of two years, a reminder came on February 4th when the Senate passed the farm bill, a strange piece of legislation which costs nearly a trillion dollars. It mixes benefits that mostly go to the poor (food stamps) with agricultural subsidies that mostly go to the rich (crop subsidies for large farms). Given a blank slate, nobody with an interest in either alleviating poverty or improving farming would construct such a law. Yet here it is again. The alignment of rural and urban interests, which dates from when the two bits of legislation were yoked together in the 1970s, had temporarily broken down, largely thanks to some House Republicans who wished to treat food stamps (which account for 80% of farm-bill spending) and agricultural subsidies separately. They were motivated by fiscal prudence and the belief that welfare discourages work. However, the imminence of November’s mid-term election persuaded enough Republicans to change their minds for the bill to pass. Some of those who failed to secure farm subsidies for their constituents might have been vulnerable. Another concern was the "dairy cliff": the failure to pass a new bill would have invoked a 1949 price-support law, written when the need to produce enough milk for thirsty infant boomers was paramount, under which the government would have been obliged to buy dairy products at about twice the going rate. Even people who had trouble understanding that shutting down the government before Christmas would be politically damaging quickly grasped that doubling the price of breakfast would. The bill passed with some pretend reforms to the food-stamps programme designed to be spouted in election campaigns, such as ending the supposed scourge of millionaires receiving the benefit. Democrats complained about savage cuts to food stamps, which actually amounted to a mere 1% over ten years compared with an earlier version. And the big picture is that food-stamp spending has exploded since 2000. The number of people receiving the benefit rose from 17m in 2000 to 26m in 2007 and then, as the recession bit, to 48m in 2013--though it is projected to shrink again as growth revives. Those who think this expansion is a bad thing point to a study by James Ziliak of the University of Kentucky, which found that only half the recent rise was due to the stodgy economy. The remainder was caused by demographic change and a determined effort to make more people eligible, something that irks Republicans who suspect Democrats of expanding welfare to buy votes. However, Mr Ziliak, who studies poverty, likes food stamps because they are counter-cyclical. America is unusual among rich nations in trying to tackle deprivation by giving away free food, a quirk that dates from a moment during the second world war when the government wanted people to buy up agricultural surpluses. Food stamps have high administrative costs and are open to corruption: some beneficiaries buy big packs of fizzy drinks and sell them back to the store for cash, minus the middleman’s cut. The federal government runs a confusing mess of 126 anti-poverty programmes, many of which overlap, but there is no serious talk of making the system simpler and more effective. The part of the farm bill that actually deals with farming is even worse. Farmers are not the only people whose businesses have ups and downs; there is no reason why they should get special treatment. The new law shifts away from direct payments, by which farmers received cheques for doing nothing very much, towards an insurance model, where farmers get paid if crops fail or prices fall too far. This sounds reasonable, but the insurance schemes lock in high prices when farming is profitable, as it is at the moment: since 2008 the value of farm assets has increased by half, says the Congressional Research Service. Crop insurance has two other defects. The first is that while the risk of crop failure or low prices is largely underwritten by taxpayers, the policies are provided by insurance companies, so, in effect, they enjoy a subsidy too. Calculations by Vincent Smith of Montana State University found that between 2005 and 2009 for every dollar in crop insurance that went to farmers, $1.44 went to insurance companies. The second problem is that crop-insurance payments are skewed towards wealthier farmers. The Environmental Working Group, which campaigns against wasteful farm spending, calculates that more than 10,000 policyholders received over $100,000 from crop-insurance subsidies in 2011. The new bill tries to cap the amount that any one farmer can receive; but if the weather is bad, it could lead to higher payouts than planned. Taken together, these subsidies distort behaviour and trade in unhelpful ways. They have created products that make no economic sense in the rest of the world, such as making sugar from corn. As a penalty for keeping cotton subsidies in place, the World Trade Organisation’s rules require the American government to pay $147m a year to compensate farmers in Brazil. The new bill is unlikely to resolve that, either. How could Congress write such a law? One answer can be found in the register of political donations. The ten members of the House, nine Republicans and one Democrat, who accepted most money from agriculture lobbyists took in an average of $225,000 in political contributions during 2013, according to Open Secrets, which tracks donations--almost as much as some farmers received in return. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
AP/Martin MeissnerFRANKFURT (Reuters) - German airline Lufthansa &lt;LHAG.DE&gt; has picked company veteran Carsten Spohr to succeed Chief Executive Christoph Franz when his contract runs out at the end of May, a person familiar with the matter told Reuters. Handelsblatt Online earlier cited sources close to the company as saying Lufthansa would announce the appointment later on Friday. Shares in Lufthansa rose 2.2 percent to 17.78 euros by 0910 GMT, making them the second-biggest gainer on a flat blue-chip DAX index &lt;.GDAXI&gt;. Germany's largest airline has been looking for a new CEO since September, when it was announced that Franz would leave at the end of May to become chairman at Swiss pharmaceuticals company Roche &lt;ROG.VX&gt;. Lufthansa declined to comment but the company has a history of promoting internal candidates to the top job. Supervisory board Chairman Wolfgang Mayrhuber, however, had said he was also considering external contenders. German media last month said that Lufthansa had contacted the former chief executive of Deutsche Telekom &lt;DTEGn.DE&gt;, Rene Obermann, in its hunt for a new CEO. The next scheduled meeting of the supervisory board, which appoints key executives including the CEO, is not until March 12, but it could call an extraordinary meeting to deal with the matter before then. (Reporting by Frankfurt bureau; Writing by Maria Sheahan; Editing by Philipp Halstrick and David Goodman) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Nacho Doce WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The number of Americans filing new claims for unemployment benefits fell more than expected last week, in a boost to the labor market outlook and the broader economy. The upbeat news, however, was undermined somewhat by other data on Thursday showing a slump in U.S. exports in December. Economists said that suggested trade likely contributed a bit less to fourth-quarter economic growth than previously believed and it augurs poorly for the first three months of 2014. Even so, investors were heartened that the labor market recovery appeared on track after some recent data had raised concerns about the economy's health. Economists said a government report on January hiring on Friday should send a similar signal. "The underlying momentum in the labor market remains positive and it is very likely that this is the narrative that we get from tomorrow's employment report," said Millan Mulraine, deputy chief economist at TD Securities in New York. Initial claims for state unemployment benefits declined 20,000 last week to a seasonally adjusted 331,000, the Labor Department said. While the data has no direct bearing on January's employment report, as it falls outside the survey period, it bodes well for the jobs market. Hiring is expected to have accelerated in January after being held down by unseasonably cold weather the prior month. That would offer confirmation that the economy continued to expand after robust growth in the second half of 2013 that was driven by consumer spending, inventory accumulation and trade. So far, data for January have been mixed. Cold weather caused a sharp slowdown in factory activity and held back automobile sales, and retailers on Thursday complained of reduced traffic volumes because of the freezing temperatures. Kohl's Corp reported that sales last month were "significantly" lower than expected. While some chains managed to register sales gains, those came either at the expense of rivals or profit margins. On the other hand, reports on Wednesday showed relatively strong hiring by private companies and an acceleration in services sector activity after two months of slower growth. Stocks on Wall Street were trading higher on the claims data, while U.S. Treasury debt prices fell. The dollar fell against the euro after European Central Bank President Mario Draghi said there is no euro zone deflation problem and left interest rates unchanged. WEAK EXPORTS TO SHAVE FOURTH-QUARTER GROWTH The largest decline in exports since October 2012 helped widen the trade deficit by 12 percent in December to $38.7 billion, the Commerce Department said. When adjusted for inflation, the trade gap rose to $49.5 billion. In its first estimate of fourth-quarter GDP last week, the government said trade accounted for 1.33 percentage points of the economy's 3.2 percent annual growth pace during the period. However, the deficit in December was bigger than the government had assumed, and economists said fourth-quarter GDP growth would likely be lowered when a revision is published later this month. "The net contribution from trade will be much smaller than the first estimate and could dial back the pace of fourth-quarter growth by as much as half a percentage point," said Tim Quinlan, an economist at Wells Fargo Securities in Charlotte, North Carolina. The deficit last year was the smallest since 2009, helped by record exports and the first drop in imported goods in four years. In December, however, exports dropped 1.8 percent, even as petroleum and food exports hit a record high, and imports edged up 0.3 percent. Imports of consumer goods hit an all-time high, but the impact was muted by a fall in the price of imported crude oil, which hit its lowest level since February 2011. A separate report showed U.S. productivity rose at a strong 3.2 percent rate in the fourth quarter after an even brisker 3.6 percent pace in the third quarter as businesses managed to step up output sharply while keeping a lid on hiring and hours worked. Still, the underlying trend remained soft. For all of 2013, productivity rose just 0.6 percent, the smallest gain since 2011. The rise in fourth-quarter productivity helped keep down unit labor costs - a gauge of the labor-related cost for any given unit of output. They fell at a 1.6 percent rate, showing no wage inflation pressures in the economy. For the year as a whole, unit labor costs were up just 1.0 percent, the weakest reading since 2010. "Declining labor costs combined with faster growth in worker productivity suggests little pressure to add workers," said Jay Morelock, an economist at FTN Financial in New York. (Reporting by Lucia Mutikani; Editing by Andrea Ricci and Tim Ahmann) FREE AppDownload
APIN HIS state-of-the-union address Barack Obama asked Congress to give him "fast-track" authority to negotiate trade deals. Shortly afterwards his most important ally on Capitol Hill hinted that he might block it. As Senate majority leader, Harry Reid can do just that: no bill gets a vote without his say-so. But would he really stiff Mr Obama? Much depends on the answer. Studies suggest that proposed deals with Asia and Europe could generate global gains of $600 billion a year, with $200 billion of that going to America. And that understates the benefits, since the deals would spur competition in the market for services, which make up most of rich countries' output but are seldom traded across borders. Opening industries like finance and transport to greater competition could bring great savings to consumers. Mr Obama has never been an ardent free-trader, yet his second term got off to a promising start. The Trans-Pacific Partnership, a deal with large Pacific-rim economies, is close to completion; America and Japan are hammering out the rules for farm goods. European and American trade wonks continue to meet regularly, hoping to wrap up a "next-generation" trade agreement as early as next year. To make all this happen Mr Obama needs "trade promotion authority" (usually known as "fast-track"), which would let him negotiate deals and then present them to Congress for a simple yes-or-no vote, with no chance for lawmakers to rewrite the details. Without such authority, America's trading partners cannot take the White House seriously as a negotiator. Fast-track was last granted to George W. Bush in 2002 and expired in 2007. Since Republicans are generally pro-trade and Democrats are generally loyal to Mr Obama, most people in Washington at first assumed that Congress would give it to him without a fuss. But with elections looming and lawmakers in a populist mood, that is far from certain. Late last year roughly half the members of the House wrote to Mr Obama declaring their opposition to fast-track; most were from his own party. In early January a bipartisan group of senators introduced a fast-track bill. Mr Obama spoke up for it in his state-of-the-union address, but only in passing and in mercantilist terms. The aim is "to protect our workers, protect our environment and open new markets to new goods stamped 'Made in the USA'," he said; without mentioning that cheap imports raise living standards. Barely had he left the podium when Mr Reid mugged him. Answering questions from reporters, he reiterated his opposition to fast-track and advised its backers "not [to] push this right now". Insiders doubt that Mr Reid would kill the bill outright. Haggling in the Senate may yield a new version with enough about labour standards and the environment to satisfy the protectionists. If so, Mr Reid will probably allow a vote, and the bill should pass. The White House remains publicly optimistic. Yet damage is already being done. Michael Froman, Mr Obama's trade representative, says negotiations have not been affected by the politicking in Washington. However, even if Mr Reid's rebellion was partly for show (his seat is at risk in 2016), it still worries America's trade partners. Shinzo Abe, Japan's prime minister, may be reluctant to offend voters at home for the sake of a trade deal that America's legislators might promptly torpedo. Similarly, the French, who have been a constant pain in talks between America and Europe, could argue that since America's leaders seem determined to attach conditions to a fast-track bill, France's demands for carve-outs deserve consideration, too. At home meanwhile, Democratic opposition could harden. Some lawmakers may see an opportunity to put daylight between themselves and their Republican foes ahead of November's elections. With corporate profits looking healthy and wages still stagnant almost five years into the recovery, some may be tempted to portray Republican backing for free trade as support for fat-cat corporations. Mr Reid's surprise rebuke suggests that Mr Obama needs to communicate better with his allies. And if he wishes to prevent two of the most promising trade deals in a decade from unravelling, he will need to make a far more full-throated case for the benefits of free exchange. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
Ugly morning in Bitcoin world. Mt. Gox, the big Japan-based exchange, is temporarily halting all withdrawals as it faces technical issues. Here's their note to clients: Dear MtGox Customers,In our efforts to resolve the issue being encountered by various bitcoin withdrawals, it was determined that the increase in the flow of withdrawal requests has hindered our efforts on a technical level. To understand the issue thoroughly, the system needs to be in a static state.In order for our team to resolve the withdrawal issue it is necessary for a temporarily pause on all withdrawal requests to obtain a clear technical view of the current processes.We apologize for the sudden short notice. All bitcoin withdrawal requests will be on pause, and the withdrawals in the system will be returned to your MtGox wallet and can be reinitiated once the issue is resolved. The trading platform will perform as usual for the needs of our customers. <U+2028><U+2028>Our team will resolve this problem as soon as possible and will provide an update on Monday, February 10, 2014 (JST).<U+2028><U+2028>We deeply apologize for the inconvenience caused, and thank you for your kind support and considerations. <U+2028>Sincerely,The MtGox Team Meanwhile, the price of Bitcoin tanked this morning. From BitcoinWisdom: BitcoinWisdom FREE AppDownload
The Eurozone crisis for all intents and purposes ended in summer 2013 when the ECB unveiled its 'OMT' program. The program would allow the ECB to backstop government bond markets (in an unlimited manner) provided said governments entered into oversight and restrictions. The ECB hasn't actually employed the program ever, but just the knowledge that the program existed has drastically calmed bond markets and ended fears that a peripheral country would go bankrupt. The ECB was always kind of threading a needle on this one. The Eurozone rules state that the ECB can't bail out countries this way. The ECB's argument is that it's not bailing out countries, but ensuring the smooth conduct of monetary policy — something that can't happen if government bond markets are going haywire. Clever. Anyway, this kind of thing never plays well in Germany, where they don't like the ECB threatening to use its printing press. This morning, the top German court ruled that it didn't like the OMT program and sees legal problems with it, but that ultimately it would punt to the European Court for Justice, rather than invalidating the program. You can read the decision here. FT Alphaville has a great breakdown of the court's logic, which is essentially that the ECB's justification for the program is nonsense. OMT is not a monetary policy program, says the German court, but rather a program built for specific countries. As such it's a violation. But again, the German court is punting to a European court to make the actual decision. Things aren't settled, but this court is less likely to strike the OMT down, and so it probably stays. Markets in Europe are rallying and yields in peripheral countries are dropping. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Larry DowningAMERICANS are deeply divided as to whether widening inequality is a problem, let alone what the government should do about it. Some are appalled that Bill Gates has so much money; others say good luck to him. But nearly everyone agrees that declining social mobility is a bad thing. Barack Obama’s state-of-the-union speech on January 28th dwelt on how America’s "ladders of opportunity" were failing (see "Barack Obama: The state of the president"). Paul Ryan and Marco Rubio, two leading Republicans, recently gave speeches decrying social immobility and demanding more effort to ensure poor people who work hard can better their lot. The EconomistJust as the two sides have found something to agree on, however, a new study suggests the conventional wisdom may be wrong. Despite huge increases in inequality, America may be no less mobile a society than it was 40 years ago. The study, by a clutch of economists at Harvard University and the University of California, Berkeley, is far bigger than any previous effort to measure social mobility. The economists crunch numbers from over 40m tax returns of people born between 1971 and 1993 (with all identifying information removed). They focus on mobility between generations and use several ways to measure it, including the correlation of parents’ and children’s income, and the odds that a child born into the bottom fifth of the income distribution will climb all the way up to the top fifth. They find that none of these measures has changed much (see chart). In 1971 a child from the poorest fifth had an 8.4% chance of making it to the top quintile. For a child born in 1986 the odds were 9%. The study confirms previous findings that America’s social mobility is low compared with many European countries. (In Denmark, a poor child has twice as much chance of making it to the top quintile as in America.) But it challenges several smaller recent studies that concluded that America had become less socially mobile. This result has caused a huge stir, not least because it runs counter to public perceptions. A recent Gallup poll found that only 52% of Americans think there is plenty of opportunity for the average Joe to get ahead, down from 81% in 1998. It also jars with other circumstantial evidence. Several studies point to widening gaps between rich and poor in the kinds of factors you would expect to influence mobility, such as the quality of schools or parents’ investment of time and money in their children. Cross-country analyses also suggest there is an inverse relationship between income inequality and social mobility--a phenomenon that has become known as the "Great Gatsby" curve. What is going on? One possibility is that social stratification takes time to become entrenched. In a new book, Gregory Clark, an economic historian at the University of California, Davis, who tracks mobility over hundreds of years by following surnames, reaches far more pessimistic conclusions (see "Social mobility: Have and have not"). Another, sunnier, explanation is that even as income gaps have widened over the past 30 years, other barriers to mobility, such as discrimination against women and blacks, have fallen. Most likely, the answer lies in the nature of America’s inequality, whose main characteristic is the soaring share of overall income going to the top 1% (from 10% in 1980 to 22% in 2012). The correlation between vast wealth accruing to a tiny elite and the ability of people to move between the rest of the rungs of the income ladder may be small--at least for now. Whatever the explanation, it would be unwise to take much comfort from this study. For a start, since the gap between top and bottom has widened, the consequences of an accident of birth have become bigger. Second, if the gains of growth are going mostly to those at the top, that bodes ill for those whose skills are less in demand. Many economists worry that living standards for the non-elite will stagnate for a long time. Third, although social mobility has not changed much over time, it varies widely from place to place. In a second paper, the economists crunch their tax statistics by region. They find that the probability of a child born into the poorest fifth of the population in San Jose, California making it to the top is 12.9%, not much lower than in Denmark. In Charlotte, North Carolina it is 4.4%, far lower than anywhere else in the rich world. This geographic prism also offers some pointers on what influences mobility. The economists found five factors that were correlated with differences in social mobility in different parts of America: residential segregation (whether by income or race); the quality of schooling; family structure (eg, how many children live with only one parent); "social capital" (such as taking part in community groups); and inequality (particularly income gaps among those outside the top 1%). Social mobility is higher in integrated places with good schools, strong families, lots of community spirit and smaller income gaps within the broad middle class. Not a bad agenda for politicians to push, if only they knew how. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
Flickr/d:spaceThe U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics releases the January jobs report today at 8:30 AM ET. The median estimate of 92 market economists polled by Bloomberg is that 180,000 workers were hired to nonfarm payrolls in January after last month's report revealed only 74,000 hires, well below everyone's estimates. Meanwhile, economists predict 185,000 workers were hired to private-sector payrolls, implying a net 5,000 reduction in government employee headcount. The big question is whether the weather effects that appeared to drag down the December number will also weigh on the January report. The consensus view seems to be that this is not likely to be the case due to the fact that temperatures were actually relatively warm over the period in which the January survey was conducted. "The market is priced for 180,000, which implies an average gain of 127,000 over the past two months," says Eric Green, global head of rates, FX, and commodities research at TD Securities. "We enter the number where risks appear asymmetric. 180,000 would suggest the December number was an anomaly, but the two month trend would still be almost 80,000 off the recent pattern. Given the recent uptick in yields and a world populated with more uncertainty and volatility, that is not a number likely to push yields higher or keep risk appetites on the mend. A weaker number, however, would reinforce the fear that another false start on this recovery has reemerged." In its monthly National Employment Report released on Wednesday, payroll-processing firm ADP estimated 175,000 workers were hired by private-sector firms in January. The ADP report, which foreshadows the official jobs report, significantly overestimated the official December jobs number. However, this may have been due to differences in survey methodology — the upshot being that ADP's report does not capture weather effects. Beyond the nonfarm payrolls number, market participants will be watching the unemployment rate closely. The median estimate of market economists is that it will remain unchanged from December at 6.7%, but around 40% of those surveyed see it falling either to 6.6% or 6.5% in January. A further drop in the unemployment rate may put pressure on the Federal Reserve to clarify its forward guidance on the likely future path of short-term interest rates, which currently dictates "that it likely will be appropriate to maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate well past the time that the unemployment rate declines below 6.5%, especially if projected inflation continues to run below the Committee's 2% longer-run goal." Another item of interest in the report is the latest update on average hourly earnings. "While everyone else focuses on the non-farm payroll increase and the unemployment rate, I am interested in wage growth and the employment rate," says Kit Juckes, a global strategist at Société Générale, who believes the former data point "probably holds the key to Fed policy." "Wage growth, depending on which of the BLS series on average earnings I use (they produced a new one in 2006), is meandering sideways in a 1.5-2.3% range, says Juckes. "With raw material prices in a downtrend, and the dollar in a gentle uptrend, I just don't believe we will see a turn higher in U.S. inflation unless it is triggered by faster wage growth. The lack of response of wages to falling unemployment is a mystery to many economists and is a source of huge support for Fed officials who are keeping rates far too low relative to nominal GDP growth." Another major item of interest is annual benchmark revisions to recent jobs numbers, which will be released with tomorrow's report. "The January employment report will include the annual historical revisions to the establishment survey data —i.e., payrolls, hours, and earnings," says Kevin Cummins, an economist at UBS. "Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) officials have already indicated that the change in payrolls in the year ended March 2013 will be revised up. Their preliminary estimate was by 345,000, or roughly 29,000 per month. However, the rise was more than accounted for by a category of employees who had not previously been included in the payroll count. The BLS shifted 469,000 people from private household employment, which is out of the scope of the payroll survey, into health services, which is. In other words, on a like for like basis, there would have been a downward revision of payrolls of 124,000—a negligible -10,000 per month revision to the 12 months through March 2013." Below are consensus estimates, courtesy of Bloomberg: Finally, we leave you with some additional commentary from Wall Street economists and strategists. GUY BERGER, RBS: "For tomorrow's employment report, we anticipate that nonfarm payrolls probably advanced by 170,000 during January, near the 2011-2013 average of 180,000. The unemployment rate could have held steady at 6.7%, though the expiration of emergency unemployment insurance benefits (EUC) at the beginning of the month poses risks of a lower number. 1.35 million claimants lost their benefits after December 31st. If a significant fraction of those former claimants was unemployed in December (i.e. without a job but actively looking for work) but subsequently either took a job or stopped looking for work (thereby dropping out of the labor force entirely), that would exert downward pressure on January's unemployment rate." DEAN MAKI, BARCLAYS: "We project a 175,000 gain in nonfarm payrolls, a 175,000 increase in private payrolls, and an unchanged unemployment rate of 6.7% in January. The payroll gain is not far from the current three-month average gain of 172,000; however, we see several cross-currents and uncertainties at work in the January report and view uncertainty concerning the forecast as unusually high. While we expect some payback after weather effects weighed on payroll growth in December, the recent rise in continuing claims suggests that the trend in payroll growth has likely softened somewhat. The January report will also incorporate updated population estimates in the household survey and the annual benchmarking of payrolls in the establishment survey. In September, the BLS estimated that the revision to March 2013 payrolls would be +345,000, but that reflected a reclassification of certain education and health care workers who previously were not included in the establishment survey. When a consistent definition of payrolls is used, the BLS estimated a downward revision of 124,000 to March 2013 payrolls." ERIC GREEN, TD SECURITIES: "We know that weather has had some effect on the recent data, but we are quick to admit it is very hard to tease out that affect with any precision. We can, however, make several observations. One, the weakness in the jobs data has not been equally reflected elsewhere. ISM was weak, but that was less a function of global volatility (export orders remained above its recent average) and more a function of the anticipated reduction in inventory accumulation and to some extent weather related issues. Two, the claims data suggest the December jobs number was an anomaly, and there is also nothing on the household survey to suggest otherwise. Third, we remain closer to the beginning of a cyclical rebound in construction jobs than the end, and expect the weakness in December to reverse. Finally, the January survey period was clean from weather related issues. That makes us worried that the January data could prove stronger than expected, even if we know that on an unadjusted basis the economy will shed close to 2.5 million jobs. That is a seasonal issue, it happens every January." VINCENT REINHART, MORGAN STANLEY: "We are making a modest downward adjustment to our nonfarm payrolls forecast to +185,000 from +215,000 after the ADP and ISM reports. Weather in January as a whole was severe, but it was actually unusually mild in the employment report survey week (the week including the 12th of the month) in January after being unusually cold in the December survey week. There were indications of a meaningful weather drag in the December employment report — most apparent in a 16,000 decline in construction, about 30,000 below trend — that we had been expecting would see a reversal in January, assuming the warm survey week would allow enough time to catch up and reverse early January disruptions during the 'polar vortex.' Risks look higher now of the December weather drag lingering into January, however, after the weak ISM and auto sales results that companies blamed on the bad weather (though much of the weakness in auto sales appears to have come from harsh weather late in the month a couple weeks after the mid- month employment report survey reference period). Beneath any continued weather drag, though, the solid 175,000 ADP result, on top of the significant rise to a new five-year high in the Conference Board’s jobs hard to get v. jobs plentiful question, indicate that a positive underlying trend in job growth has likely continued." FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Djordje Kojadinovic Good morning! Happy Jobs Day. Today at 8:30 AM we get the Non-Farm Payrolls report for January. A full preview of the report is here, but the short version is that analysts are expecting 180,000 new jobs and for the unemployment rate to stay unchanged at 6.7%. In the meantime, markets are gaining a bit. US futures are up to the tune of 0.3%. Europe is up as well. Japan had a big night, rallying 2%. It seems that, for the moment, the selling we've seen of late has calmed down. Of course, today's jobs report has the potential to upset any balance in a number of ways. A strong number could get people talking again about the Fed tightening. And a weak number could play into the new meme that once again, the economy is failing to achieve breakout speed. We'll know soon! FREE AppDownload
Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg)Will SocGen's forecast materialize?The median estimate of 92 market economists polled by Bloomberg is that 180,000 workers were hired to nonfarm payrolls in January. Brian Jones, senior U.S. economist at Société Génerale, claims the highest of those estimates — he predicts 270,000 jobs were created last month. Below is his take: We expect the BLS to report that nonfarm payrolls expanded by an above-consensus 270,000 in January, almost quadruple the preliminary 74,000 December gain and the strongest net hiring since the 332,000 jobs added in February 2013. Weather-related and fundamental factors support our expectation for a marked pickup in job creation last month. Figures collected by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) revealed that at 32.9o degrees Fahrenheit, temperatures nationwide were 2.1o degrees warmer than usual over the month-to-date ended January 18 — a fairly dramatic improvement from the mean 27.8o degrees (5.6o degrees below normal) suffered over the first two weeks of December. Rather than guess at the number of persons who could not work because of inclement weather in January, we decided to explicitly incorporate the NOAA series in our modelling procedure. Our statistical work revealed that the 7.7o degree positive swing in the month-to-survey-period temperature anomaly – the biggest witnessed over the past six years – could add roughly 60,000 jobs to the January report. Traditional labour market barometers also suggest that December’s surprisingly low print was a fluke. Implying a slower pace of pink-slipping, the average number of persons filing initial claims for unemployment insurance benefits fell by 10,000 to a three-month low of 334,000 between establishment canvasses. Although below the 69.4 reading posted in November, December’s three-month diffusion index of 67.7 was well above the 50-point breakeven mark and consistent with net hiring in the neighbourhood of 225,000. Supporting our view that the extent of hiring is poised to rebound in the BLS' January report, the ISM surveys revealed the strongest hiring breadth since last August. Over the past two years, Jones's estimates have been, on average, 14,000 above the consensus estimate and 15,000 above the actual number, according to Bloomberg. FREE AppDownload
