Chris Keane/ReutersBank of America CEO Brian Moynihan.Bank of America shares are going to $25. On Friday, the stock closed at $16.95.  In this weekend's edition of Barron's, Jack Hough writes that over the next three years, as penalties from the financial crisis that have been plaguing Bank of America finally dissipate, the stock could return more than 50% to shareholders.  Hough writes that earnings could hit $2 per share by 2017, and with fewer legal penalties and increasing dividends, shareholders could see returns of 50% — or more — over that period.  According to Hough, Bank of America expects it has resolved 95% of threatened or filed claims on mortgage securities.  And while the broader banking industry still faces regulatory proceedings on alleged Libor-fixing and shenanigans in the currency market, Hough says Bank of America's exposure there is limited.  Bank of America CEO Brian Moynihan told Hough that the bank is already seeing rising profit in most core businesses, with these earnings offset by legacy costs.  The worst may be over for Bank of America, but as Moynihan told Hough, "The stock price depends on market sentiment."  So keep an eye on BofA shares on Monday. You can read Hough's whole piece over at Barron's here »  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe Siemens logo is seen during the IFA Electronics show in Berlin(Reuters) - Industrial conglomerate Siemens AG  said on Monday it would buy U.S. oilfield equipment maker Dresser-Rand Group Inc  for $7.6 billion, in a move that would significantly boost the German company's oil and gas business in North America. Reuters reported on Sunday that the companies were nearing a deal.  (Reporting by Supriya Kurane in Bangalore; Editing by Diane Craft) FREE AppDownload
VolkswagenVolkswagen is trying to mix things up overseas in an attempt to nail down some higher profit margins. The car company is launching a luxury car designed solely for China next year. It is set to be based on Audi's A6, which now holds the top spot in China among luxury sedans. Volkswagen is entering into direct competition with Audi, and hoping it will pay off. Reuters spoke to two people with knowledge of the plan, though they couldn't elaborate on how the car's features would be specific to China. The Audi A6 in China has a longer body than A6s elsewhere, allowing more leg room and out-sizing many of its rivals. The price of the VW premium sedan is undetermined, and nearing the A6's 383,000 yuan ($62,375) starting price would risk cannibalizing Audi sales. But Volkswagen, better known for small cars and family-oriented models, is drawn to Audi's margins. Volkswagen sells three times more cars than Audi globally, yet Audi earns more than double the profit of VW-branded cars. "Volkswagen wants to boost its brand value, which is natural for any company seeking higher margins. But it's not easy," said Yale Zhang, managing director at consultancy Automotive Foresight. "If Volkswagen's premium car is priced too high, people would go straight to Audi. If the price is not high, then what's the point?" Volkswagen aims to replicate Audi's success in luxury vehicles at a time when a state crackdown on extravagance among public officials is creating demand for upmarket cars absent of marques typically associated with opulence. Going upmarket would see the German auto maker trespass into a segment dominated by BMW &lt;BMWG.DE&gt; and Daimler AG's Mercedes-Benz, which are in turn seeking growth by producing more affordable models closer to Volkswagen's line-up. "Selling luxury cars makes for fatter profit. Volkswagen believes this segment will continue to grow rapidly," said one of the people, who is not authorized to talk to the media so declined to be identified. "Premium models under the Volkswagen brand will be especially attractive to those who want a superior car but don't want to catch too much attention," said the person, dismissing the long-term impact of the crackdown. China's premium car market could surpass that of the United States to become the world's biggest as early as 2016 thanks to increasing affluence, forecast consultancy McKinsey &amp; Co. The Volkswagen group operates upper-class name plates Audi, Bentley, Porsche and Lamborghini independently to its Volkswagen brand. The group commands over one-fifth of China's passenger vehicle market where it dominates in mid-tier compact sedans. Volkswagen's new premium car is code-named 511, the people said. It was designed inEurope but will be the brand's first large "C-class" sedan manufactured in China - by Shanghai Volkswagen, a joint venture with China's SAIC Motor Corp Ltd. A spokeswoman at Volkswagen in China confirmed the existence of a plan for a C-class To car but declined to provide details. SAIC Motor declined to comment. Shanghai Volkswagen produces the Santana, China's No. 2-selling compact sedan this year, according to researcher LMC Automotive. But the German auto maker's joint venture with China FAW Group Corp [SASACJ.UL], FAW-Volkswagen Automobile, is more profitable because it builds Audi cars, one of the people said. Volkswagen earned 1.01 billion euros ($1.29 billion) in operating profit in January-June selling 2.3 million VW passenger vehicles globally. By comparison, Audi earned 2.67 billion euros from 750,000 cars. Volkswagen's entry into China's high-end car market will begin toward the end of 2015. It has not determined a price for its luxury car but has set an annual sales target of 50,000 vehicles, the person said. To elevate its brand image, Shanghai Volkswagen will set up 100 upscale dealerships across China over the next three years, where the decor and hospitality will give prospective buyers a different feel of a familiar brand, the second person said. (1 US dollar = 6.1403 Chinese yuan) (1 US dollar = 0.7769 euro)   (Editing by Christopher Cushing) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA man holding an umbrella walks past the logo of Softbank Corp at its branch in TokyoTOKYO (Reuters) - Shares of SoftBank Corp  were down more than 2 percent in early trade on Monday following the listing on Friday of Alibaba Group Holding Ltd , in which the Japanese telecommunications company holds a 32 percent stake. Over the past six weeks, SoftBank had surged 30 percent in anticipation of the Chinese e-commerce company's listing, compared with a 9 percent rise in Tokyo's benchmark Nikkei average . As of 0013 GMT (0813 EDT) on Monday, the stock was down 2.7 percent at 8,506 yen. SoftBank said over the weekend that it expected a gain of about 500 billion yen ($4.6 billion) from Alibaba's share listing in New York, where Alibaba surged 38 percent on its first day of trade.  (Reporting by Chris Gallagher; Editing by Edmund Klamann) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ahmed JadallahVisitors tour the Cityscape real estate exhibition in Dubai.Property prices around the world continue to rise. However, the once hot US and Asian markets have cooled while markets in the Middle East and Europe have picked up. The Global Property Guide has compiled and analyzed the property price performance of the world's big economies. We've put together a list of the top 12 markets based on year-over-year, inflation-adjusted price performance as of Q2.  FREE AppDownload
Skye Gould/Business InsiderWhile Netflix and Hulu offer similar services on a very broad level, one has become a major disruptive force for the entertainment industry while the other has become a bit player. Both offer over-the-top digital streaming of television shows and movies and both create original content, but what was once a battle of two equals has seen Netflix pull far ahead of its rival. The two companies do not do exactly the same thing but are clearly competing in the same space. Hulu sells advertising to support offering some free content on its website while also selling premium subscriptions through its Hulu Plus service. Netflix is solely a subscription play with all of its revenue coming from the monthly dues paid by subscribers to its streaming service and, to a lesser extent, its DVD subscription service.  Though their business models are slightly different both companies are clearly going after the same eyeballs and competing for the same subscribers and Netflix has been winning the battle by a wide margin. How are both companies doing? Hulu is jointly owned by Twenty-First Century Fox, the Walt Disney Co. and Comcast's  NBCUniversal. Because the company is not publicly traded it does not have to release financial data on the same schedule Netflix does, but the company has periodically shared some results on its blog. CEO Mike Hopkins wrote in a blog post in December 2013 that the company would reach $1 billion in sales for 2013, up from $695 million in 2012. "When you think about the fact that Hulu first launched out of beta in 2008, it's quite an impressive feat to scale the business from zero to $1 billion over the course of just six years," Hopkins wrote. While that may be true, it's not nearly as impressive as what Netflix has accomplished in the seven years since it launched its streaming service.  Netflix had $1.67 billion in revenue in 2009 and has grown steadily since then, reaching $4.37 billion in 2013. The company also has a huge lead in paid subscribers. In a blog post in April Hulu claimed 6 million paid subscribers. Netflix, in its most recent financial results press release, which covers the second quarter of 2014, claimed 35.09 million domestic paying subscribers and 12.91 million internationally. That difference is important because while Hulu does take in revenue from ad sales, 6 million subscribers at the company's subscription price of $7.99 a month equals just over $575 million a year -- more than half of total revenue. With Netflix so far ahead in subscribers, it's hard to see how Hulu can bridge the revenue gap between the two companies. Hey big spender  Netflix has built up a huge subscriber base and part of how it has done that is by spending big on content. The company has never detailed exactly how much it spends on content nor does it break down spending between licensing existing shows and creating originals. In April of 2013, however, the company released a document which pegged its annual content spend at $2 billion, TechCrunch reported. Some have pegged the number even higher as FierceWireless estimates its 2014 content budget could be as high as $4 billion, though that number seems high given overall revenue. In an October 2013 earnings call Netflix Chief Content Officer Ted Sarandos said about 10% of the overall content budget went to originals, Variety reported. If the $2 billion to $4 billion total content-spend estimates are correct, that would mean the company has $1.8 billion-$3.6 billion to spend on licensing deals and $200 million-$400 million for original shows including House of Cards, Orange is the New Black, Hemlock Grove, and its untitled talk show project with Chelsea Handler that is slated to launch in early 2016. Hulu does not disclose how much it spends on acquiring or creating content, but it's much less than Netflix invests, though it is increasing. Hopkins did not provide numbers, but he shared some details in an April blog post. "It's not enough for us to simply invest in acquiring and producing great shows...we want to make sure viewers know where to find them – only on Hulu and Hulu Plus. To that end, over the next year, we will more than triple our content marketing spend to grow awareness for, and interest in, Hulu Originals."   Netflix has already won Hulu simply doesn't have the budget to compete with Netflix on original content or in making licensing deals. It's also hard to imagine that even if it produced a hit original that it could bridge a gap of around 42 million subscribers. In this fight, Netflix is Coke and Hulu is, at best, Royal Crown Cola (or, at worst, store-brand cola). Both companies still have room to be successful as Hulu's ownership assures it access to some programming that people will want to see. Netflix, however, has moved up in weight class and its rival is the concept of subscribing to cable overall. If Netflix can cause more people to cut the cord and drop cable, that could actually benefit Hulu. Netflix may be the No. 1 streaming content service, but if people drop cable -- which NPD pegs will cost $123 per month on average by next year -- it's possible that adding a $7.99-a-month Hulu Plus subscription on top of an $8.99 Netflix one will become common.    Your cable company is scared, but you can get rich You know cable's going away. But do you know how to profit? There's $2.2 trillion out there to be had. Currently, cable grabs a big piece of it. That won't last. And when cable falters, three companies are poised to benefit. Click here for their names. Hint: They're not Netflix, Google, and Apple.  FREE AppDownload
Via Wikimedia CommonsThe University of Pennsylvania has produced 25 undergraduate alumni billionaires, the most of any school in the world.More billionaires went to the University of Pennsylvania for their undergraduate degrees than any other college in the world, according to a new report from Wealth-X. 25 current billionaires received their bachelor's degrees at Penn, the most of any school on Wealth-X's list. The only other colleges to produce similar numbers were Harvard University — with 22 undergrad alum billionaires — and Yale University — with 20. American universities dominated the undergraduate alumni billionaires list, representing all but four spots in the top 20, including the first eight positions. Here are the 20 universities with the most billionaire undergraduate alumni and how many alumni they have, via Wealth-X: 1. University of Pennsylvania — 25 2. Harvard University — 22 3. Yale University — 20 4. University of Southern California — 16 5. Cornell University — 14 5. Princeton University — 14 5. Stanford University — 14 8. University of California, Berkeley — 12 8. University of Mumbai (India) — 12 10. London School of Economics (United Kingdom) — 11 10. Lomonosov Moscow State University (Russia) — 11 12. Dartmouth College — 10 12. University of Michigan — 10 12. University of Texas — 10 15. Duke University — 9 15. New York University — 9 17. Brown University — 8 17. Columbia University — 8 19. Massachusetts Institute of Technology — 7 20. Eth Zurich (Switzerland) — 6 Last year's Wealth-X billionaire census looked at universities with the most billionaire alumni of both undergraduate and graduate programs. Harvard topped that list, with 52 billionaire alumni. Penn came in second, with 28. FREE AppDownload
Shutterstock.comWhen you were a child, fall meant new school gear to start the season off fresh. It's a little different for adults — no Trapper Keepers or freshly sharpened pencils — but freshness is still absolutely required. To help you get set for the season, Business Insider put together a list of items that will put you in the right mind (and body) to start anew. We want you to look, feel, and think sharp, so this isn't just about the clothes, people. It's about the gentleman. FREE AppDownload
Facebook/ LaphroaigScotland votes on its independence today, and regardless of where you stand, when all is said and done you may want to raise a glass. If that's the case, your drink has to be scotch whisky — the native spirit of the country itself. To help you with that process, Business Insider put together a list of award winning whiskys from the International Wine and Spirit Compeition. Distillers and winemakers have been holding that competition since 1969, so you're sure to learn a thing or two.     FREE AppDownload
AP PhotoDale Carnegie reads aloud from his book "How to Win Friends and Influence People." Some of the most influential business books are available for next to nothing (or even nothing) in the Amazon Kindle store. For less than $5, you can gather timeless wisdom from classics like Dale Carnegie's "How to Win Friends and Influence People," build your economic background with world-changing texts like John Maynard Keynes' "The General Theory of Employment, Interest, and Money," and get insight from ancient texts like Marcus Aurelius's "Meditations." A few modern classics, like Susan Cain's "Quiet: The Power of Introverts in a World That Can't Stop Talking" are also available. If you've got a Kindle and a few bucks to spare, it's time to get reading. Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through his personal investment company Bezos Expeditions. Sun Tzu's ancient Chinese military classic has become required reading for executives around the world. Rick Wartzman, executive director of the Drucker Institute, writes in Forbes that the book's influence outside the battlefield is due to the focus on the fundamentals of management and competition. It explains how you can outlast an enemy that is more powerful through patience and a focus of energy. Marcus Aurelius was the great Roman emperor known as the "Philosopher King." His personal writings from the end of his life have been collected as "Meditations," and have remained relevant for almost two millennia. Marcus' reflections offer timeless wisdom into the nature of human beings, as well as advice on how to maintain self-control and determination in the face of adversity. The Italian political theorist Machiavelli's most well-known work has inspired a wildly diverse group that includes Thomas Jefferson, Napoleon, and mobster John Gotti. Machiavelli's outline for being a ruthless and manipulative leader has been interpreted in many different ways and remains controversial. "The Way to Wealth" is a collection of whimsical yet wise advice from US Founding Father Benjamin Franklin and is the source of many of his most popular adages. Adam Smith set the foundation for classical economics (supply creates its own demand) in "The Wealth of Nations," which is an exploration of free markets, productivity, and the division of labor. George Samuel Clason uses a series of colorful parables to teach the basics of personal finance. It remains a top seller, especially as a gift for college graduates just starting out in the real world. &nbsp; There have been over 15 million copies of Dale Carnegie's book sold since it was first published. It offers timeless advice on how to rise through the corporate hierarchy or establish your business by selling a story and making important connections. This is widely considered the economist John Maynard Keynes' masterpiece, and his theories have significantly shaped modern macroeconomics. Paul Krugman is one of today's most vocal Keynesians. Napoleon Hill's guide to success is one of the best-selling books of all-time. Its key takeaways on how to be more likable, resilient, and productive will never go out of date. Joseph Schumpeter was one of the most influential economic theorists of the 20th century, and this is his most widely read work. Schumpeter is responsible for popularizing the term "creative destruction" and was one of the first to explore the role of entrepreneurship and innovation within capitalism. Og Mandino tells the story of a poor traveler in the ancient Middle East who works his way to a life of abundance. Its charming story and valuable insight on motivation and salesmanship have made it a bestseller. Academy Award-winning actor Matthew McConaughey has said that the book inspired him to never take "no" for an answer. Nobel Prize-winning psychologist Daniel Kahneman splits human thought into two categories: one is fast, intuitive, and emotional, and the other is slow, deliberate, and logical. In addition to exploring this concept, he explains how fast and slow thinking can be balanced to maximize success in the workplace. The book topped many publications' best books of 2011 lists, including the New York Times Book Review and the Wall Street Journal. Susan Cain's book on introversion is a rejection of the traditional idea that only extroverts can be leaders in their fields. It explains how managers can maximize the value of their quieter and more withdrawn employees and how introverts can best communicate with extroverts. Men vastly outnumber women in high-level executive positions across the world, and Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg says that women need to take charge of changing it themselves. Sandberg's book started her "Lean In" movement for female empowerment, which helped initiate a global conversation about women's equality in the workplace. FREE AppDownload
The state of a country’s well-being says a lot about its prosperity and progress. That’s why Gallup and Healthways team up to produce the annual “State of Global Well-Being Index,” which this year analyzed 135 world countries in five elements, including financial stability, social relationships, community safety, physical well-being, and sense of purpose (i.e. contributing to society). The researchers culled results from over 133,000 surveys taken in 2013 and ranked the countries with the highest and lowest well-being in each element, as well as those who thrived in three or more categories. Here are the countries with the highest and lowest well-being, with darker countries doing better: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Gallup-Healthways Panama had by far the best well-being ranking in the world, with 61% of its population thriving in four of the five well-being elements. Gallup and Healthways researchers claimed that Panama's cultural positivity, relative political stability, and growing economy contributed to its high ranking. But the Central American country was not thriving in terms of financial well-being, and struggled with a high poverty rate. Researchers noted this was especially prevalent for women and that ample work was needed to help women achieve financial stability on par with men. Costa Rica followed Panama in a distant second place, with 44% of its population thriving in three or more elements, followed by Denmark, Austria, and Brazil rounding out the top five. The U.S. came in #12 in the overall ranking, with high marks in social well-being and purpose. Gallup and Healthways State of Global Well BeingGallup noted that the Americas have the highest overall well-being among the world's regions: a full 33% of people surveyed were thriving in three or more of the five well-being areas. Meanwhile, Syria and Afghanistan fell to the bottom of the ranking, with only about 1% of each of their populations thriving in at least three areas. Respondents in both of these countries were described as war-weary, with little certainty about their country's future. Haiti (3%), the Democratic Republic of the Congo (5%), and Chad (5%) also made the bottom five. Gallup and Healthways State of Global Well Being For more details on the results and countries, you can read the full Gallup and Healthways survey results here. The above map was made using an underlying file from thematicmapping.org.
Flickr / Dima ViunnykAnyone with a little spare cash can invest.You're never too young to invest. Yes, investing can seem intimidating, and yes, there are experts out there who seem to speak a whole different language, but not everyone needs to make a career out of it. Most of us are just in it to bulk up our savings for retirement, make a little extra money on the side, or even just beat inflation (more on that in a minute). Below, find 25 investing basics that every 25-year-old should know. Is this everything there is to learn? Of course not. But it's a solid start. Your savings account isn't invested in anything ... You do earn interest on money in savings, but it's usually less than 1%, and that money sits in the bank. ... but your retirement savings are. Retirement savings, on the other hand, are invested if you put them in a retirement fund like an IRA or 401(k). This isn't the case if you simply name your savings account "retirement." Investments are one of the only ways to keep up with inflation. Inflation lops an average 3.87% off your money's value every year, so you need your money to grow fast enough to outpace inflation. For most people, investing is the only way to get that kind of growth. Investing is always a risk. Investing could earn you money or lose it. Just because many people invest  Flickr / Kate HiscockGo ahead and consider these eggs poorly diversified. A security is a financial instrument. You'll probably hear people refer to "securities," which is a catch-all term for things like stocks, bonds, or CDs. Securities are divided into debt securities (money owed to us, like from a government bond), and equity securities (actual value we own, like stocks). Stocks are equity in a company. When you buy a stock, you're buying a tiny little piece of an actual company. Not a lot, but ownership nonetheless. Stocks are more volatile than bonds, and may therefore yield greater rewards or losses. The stock market lets you track stock performance. Stocks are traded on "exchanges," which make up the overall market. The major stock exchanges in the US include the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) and the Nasdaq. Stock prices are also tracked on indices such as the S&amp;P 500 and the Dow Jones Industrial Average. While you'll want to check in with your individual investments, monitoring stock market activity can give you an idea of how your portfolio might be performing.  Bonds are loans you make. When you purchase a bond, you're essentially loaning a little money to an entity — like the US government, for instance — and that entity has to pay you back after a fixed period of time, with interest. There aren't bond exchanges that show up in a ticker, because bonds are traded differently than stocks. However, there are sites where you can get an idea of bond pricing, like the Wall Street Journal. Diversification means spreading your money out among different kinds of investments. There are a lot of opinions out there about how diversified an investment portfolio needs to be, but most everyone agrees that putting all of your financial eggs in one basket is a recipe for disaster.  The ROI is how much money you make on your investments. To get an idea of how well your investments are performing, you can calculate the ROI by dividing an investment's gains by its costs. Spencer Platt / Getty ImagesThe New York Stock Exchange is a major fixture of Wall Street. You'll probably be charged fees. Investing isn't free. If you're working with an investment professional, you'll pay them either a percentage of your portfolio or a flat fee (you'll want to know if your advisor is "fee-based" or "fee-only" before you sign on), online investment platforms or "robo-advisors" each have their own fee structures, and some mutual funds and ETFs also charge fees. These fees vary, and if you do your research, you can minimize them.  You don't have to pick stock by stock. Professionals collect groups of securities called mutual funds, and you can invest in these funds to diversify your money without picking every individual stock or bond yourself. Index funds are mutual funds chosen to reflect a specific stock index, such as the S&amp;P 500. You may have to pay taxes due to your investments ... The US government doesn't let you have the money you may make investing for free. When you cash in, you'll owe what's called capital gains taxes. ... but you also may receive a tax break. Although different retirement accounts have different tax structures, contributions are often tax-deductible. 529 savings plans, which are also investment accounts, are similarly tax-advantaged. Sometimes, you'll fail. It's an unfortunate truth that we won't all be rock star investors. For some people to do really well, others must do poorly. And sometimes, you're the "other." Flickr / Jamie McCaffreyInvesting isn't just gambling. Starting early is a major advantage. In your 20s, your biggest asset is time. Even when you're just investing in retirement savings, nothing can make up for the effect of compound interest. Also, if you lose money in the market, you'll have more time to make it back before you need it. Hot stocks probably aren't your ticket. There's always a stock to buzz about, but that doesn't guarantee it will be your ticket to wealth. It's a better bet to research the company and make your own decision than to blindly jump on the stock of the moment. Your long-term strategy has nothing to do with that morning's news. Most investors shouldn't "buy" or "sell" every time it's recommended on TV. There's an entire documentary explaining why active investing — buying and selling stocks strategically and often — doesn't work for most people. Getting too attached to individual stocks can be dangerous. If you own a particular security you're attached to for sentimental reasons or because of its past performance, you might be reluctant to ditch it even if your advisor or investment professional says to. Securities are only as good as how they're performing currently, and you have to be willing to let low performers go.  You don't need to check constantly. If you've caught sight of a stock ticker (on Business Insider, for example), you're probably aware that markets go up and down every day, and so do individual stocks. If you're investing for the long term and aren't an investing professional, you don't need the anxiety of a running ticker on your desktop. Don't invest money you'll need soon. If you'll need quick access to liquid cash in the short term, you won't want to park that money in the stock market. Some professionals say you shouldn't invest money you'll need in the next five years, because if the market goes down, you won't have enough time to recoup those funds. Wikimedia CommonsEven the most qualified professionals can be off the mark. No one can reliably predict the market. They just can't. While professionals can make educated guesses, predicting the market is predicting the future, and no one can do it. And past market behavior isn't a reliable way to predict the future. On that same note, looking at what the markets have done isn't a reliable way to predict what they will do. Again, this is a case of predicting the future, which could go in an unexpected direction due to unforeseen events known as "black swans." You don't know what you don't know. There's a lot to learn about the stock market, and it's a big mistake to think that you're an expert just because you're a generally smart, capable person. There's always more to learn.  You don't have to do it yourself. You don't have to be an expert to invest. There are financial planners, wealth advisors, and even automated online investing platforms (robo-advisors) to guide you. This post has been updated to clarify that the Dow Jones Industrial Average and S&amp;P 500 are indices, not exchanges. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lukas BarthA girl waves from a window of a wooden house on an parade float during the Oktoberfest parade in Munich September 21, 2014.Even mighty Germany, Europe’s strongest economy, is feeling the pinch of a gloomy European summer. The euro zone’s largest economy shrank 0.2 percent in the second quarter, largely owing to a 4.2 percent drop in construction investment. But Credit Suisse analysts believe the glass is half-full for German real estate, rather than half-empty. And the sector is poised to help bring economic growth back to positive territory sooner rather than later. While German employment figures have dipped and there are signs of consumer malaise, analysts say the economy is fundamentally strong. The 2,000-worker payroll decline in August was too small to budge the country’s 6.7 percent unemployment rate, for example. And investor confidence, which sank to its lowest level since 2012 in July, might simply be the result of a temporary shock from the announcement of harsh new EU sanctions against Russia, which imported €36 billion ($47 billion) in German goods in 2013. More to the point, the construction downturn may be a problem borne of difficult comparisons, rather than true weakness. A warmer-than-average winter in Germany resulted in stronger-than-usual construction in the year’s first quarter, which also left an unusually small construction backlog heading into the second. At the end of the day, the analysts point out that Germany’s wages are still growing, which should bolster both household spending and consumer confidence. All told, Credit Suisse expects the German economy to grow 2.2 percent in 2014 versus 0.9 percent growth in France and 0.3 percent in Italy. An immigration explosion also bodes well for German construction and real estate. Over the past two years, net migration to Germany was 400,000 per year, a sharp increase from the 100,000 average of the past decade. In the first six months of 2014, the number of permits issued for new residential buildings increased 9.6 percent over last year to 136,843. Credit Suisse also notes that demand has finally caught up with an overabundance of housing supply in the wake of the post-reunification building boom of the early 1990s. The evidence: German home prices have risen nearly 20 percent over the past four years. “With completed dwellings declining for more than a decade,” the bank explains, “there is plenty of room to increase further, especially in light of house price increases, which suggest supply shortages.” While housing prices have been rising, Credit Suisse Head of Global Real Estate Research in the Private Banking &amp; Wealth Management Division Philippe Kaufmann noted in a June analysis that those increases were from extremely low levels, and that German home prices remain 20 percent below their long-term average. What’s more, with interest rates at record lows and housing prices still relatively cheap, Credit Suisse expects home ownership, which is less common in Germany than in the rest of Europe, to be on the rise. All of which points to construction’s return to contributing positively to GDP growth rather than dragging it down. FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVBill Fleckenstein."[T]he certainty with which the woman that I got interviewed by (on CNBC) this week sees the future, and the need (she sees) to be involved in stocks is rather remarkable since most talking heads don’t know anything about investing," Bill Fleckenstein of Fleckenstein Capital said. "Otherwise, they would be doing it instead of talking about other people doing it, you know what I mean?" In a new interview with King World News, long-time Fed-critic Fleckenstein addresses the startling shouting match he got into with CNBC anchor Jackie DeAngelis on Tuesday. For years, Fleckenstein had been warning investors through interviews that the loose monetary policies of the various developed market central banks would end in financial catastrophe. And the manner in which he sounded his warnings made it seem as if this doom would be somewhat imminent. "At what point are you willing to concede that you've misunderstood monetary policy?" DeAngelis asked point blank. This had Fleckenstein understandably incensed. "I don't misunderstand monetary policy," he responded. "I closed my short fund in 2009 because I knew the Fed would print money ... If you want to pursue idiots like the Fed, and their crazy policies, and you think you can get out in time, go for it." Indeed, Fleckenstein has had little skin in the game during the duration of the current bull market. "The problem I have with what you're saying and what others have been recommending, is that if people had listened to you guys over the last few months, they've really missed out on a big piece of the market gain," DeAngelis said. Indeed, such dire warnings would encourage most reasonable people to sit on the sidelines or perhaps short the market. "So what?!" Fleckenstein responded. "So in the last two months the markets have gone up by a rounding error, so what?" "All I can say is I feel like as sure as I know my own name, and as certain as I was that there would be a crash after the stock bubble and the real estate bubble burst, I feel like it’s going to happen again," Fleckenstein said to King World News. "I’m just saying that the outcome is going to be a big dislocation.  And all these people who think they have won the lottery because the market has gone up don’t understand that it’s really a Potemkin village and it can collapse in no time.  And at some point it will. "At some point this bullishness that’s fed on itself will crack and there will be no buyers on the way down because they are only buying them because they (fund managers) had to and they had to perform," he added. "So the fact that the (CNBC) commentators are so rabid and feel like they know everything, it’s just a function of the times.  Anyone close to the market who believes in it thinks that their vision of the future, which is happy times are here again, is a slam-dunk guarantee, when there’s no shot that that happens." Last fall, Fleckenstein told TheStreet.com's Herb Greenberg that he would soon be reopening his short fund. And the last we heard, he was still in the process of ramping it up. But until that happens, investors listening to Fleckenstein should note that his commentary is largely just talk and probably not intended to be actionable investment advice. Read and listen to Fleckenstein's interview at KingWorldNews.com. FREE AppDownload
The Census Bureau just released statistics on income and poverty in 2013, based on the Annual Social and Economic Supplement to the Current Population Survey. One shocking fact from the report is that large income gaps between different racial and ethnic groups have been around for a long time and continue to exist: Census Bureau The Census report also notes that the income gaps between races have not changed overly much. Real median income for each group except for Hispanics had no statistically significant change between 2012 and 2013, while on the bright side, Hispanic households did see an increase of about 3.5% over that year. For more, check out the Census Bureau's full report and presentation here. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFile photo of General Motors logo outside its headquarters at the Renaissance Center in DetroitWASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. car manufacturer General Motors Co is recalling hundreds of thousands of cars over a defect in the parking brake that could cause a fire, a letter by the top U.S. auto safety regulator showed. The problem occurred with GM's 2013-2015 Cadillac XTS and the 2014-2015 Chevrolet Impala, said the Sept. 19 letter from the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA), seen by Reuters. The total number of cars recalled was 221,558, the company said, including 205,309 in the United States, and the remainder in Canada and other countries. "GM is not aware of any crashes, injuries or fatalities as a result of this condition," the company said. The problem was that the brake's indicator light sometimes failed to illuminate while the brake was not fully retracted. "If the vehicle is operated for an extended period of time in this condition, there is a potential for the rear brakes to generate significant heat, smoke and sparks," the NHTSA said. "Brake pads that remain partially engaged with the rotors may cause excessive brake heat that may result in a fire." The NHTSA's deputy administrator David Friedman last week heavily criticized General Motors for not reporting and recalling cars promptly over problems with ignition switches that are now linked to at least 19 deaths. The company has recalled nearly 15 million vehicles worldwide this year over the problem with the switches.  (Reporting by Douwe Miedema in Washington, DC and Paul Lienert in Detroit; Editing by Kevin Liffey) FREE AppDownload
While the fashion world is already looking ahead to Spring 2015, we're here to prepare you for Fall 2014. The majority of fall menswear collections that were shown at New York Fashion Week last spring had muted color palettes and resurrected past trends, from puffy jackets to fair isle prints. Sweatpants even made their way onto the runway. Here are eight trends to watch out for this season. Courtesy of Balenciaga, Michael Kors, and Alexander WangPuffy, quilted coats will be back in style this fall and winter. Top designers like Alexander Wang, Balenciaga, and Calvin Klein sent iterations of the down-filled jacket down the runway. Try to choose a style that is as streamlined as possible so you don’t look like a marshmallow (or time traveler from the early aughts), and pair it with slim-fitting jeans and sneakers.  Because it’s a sporty look, avoid wearing this style of jacket with suits or fancier attire. Courtesy of Rag & Bone, Belstaff, and Michael BastianAnother popular outerwear trend for this season will be shearling-lined coats that look like the classic bombardier jackets pilots wore during WWII.  While we saw a lot of these on the runway, no other designer was quite as into the shearling look as Belstaff, a brand from designer Martin Cooper that is popular in the motorcycle competition world.  The look is rugged and manly, but also best relegated to your weekend wear or worn on a chilly weekend getaway. Courtesy of Band of Outsiders, McQ Alexander McQueen, and Michael BastianFlannel isn’t only for outdoorsy men — it also works in the city when you pair it with leather like the designers at Marc by Marc Jacobs, Band of Outsiders, McQ Alexander McQueen, and No. 21 all did. It’s a versatile material that looks good whether it’s on shirts, outerwear, or cold-weather accessories. The more flannel the better this fall. Courtesy of Brioni, Gieves & Hawkes, and BallyHandbags are not just for the ladies. The runways were chock full of large duffel bags — approximately carry-on sized — being held by models for Bally, Bottega Veneta, Brioni, Burberry, and Gieves &amp; Hawkes. Whether you’re going to the gym or on a business trip, these bags are smart accessories. Pick one that’s neither too small nor too big, and opt for a leather version instead of canvas since it will last longer and be more versatile. Courtesy of Antonio Marras, J.Crew, and No. 21Knits are obviously going to make a comeback this fall, but the patterned knits and fair isle prints that we saw on the runway were an exciting departure from bland, boring sweaters. Pair yours with a blazer or collared shirt underneath to make it look less like something your aunt bought you for Christmas. Layering is your friend — especially since the temperatures will be dropping soon, too. If you're at a loss for where to start, J.Crew has some good options. Courtesy of Band of Outsiders, Agi & Sam, and Todd SnyderAside from a few pops of color, the Fall/Winter 2014 runways looked very muted and neutral. But the pairing that fashion houses seemed to love more than any other was the classic white and black combo. Agi &amp; Sam, Todd Snyder, Casely-Hayford, and Comme des Garçons all featured black and white outfits prominently in their collections. It’s an easy combination that any man can pull off, but if it feels too crisp for you, add a grey item or jeans to break up the look. Courtesy of Bally, Tod's, and OrleyThis retro-classic has been gaining ground for a couple of years now in men’s fashion circles, and this year was no exception thanks to brands like AMI, Bally, DKNY, Ralph Lauren, and Topman Design. Though most men are scared that a turtleneck will make them appear too feminine, it’s all about the way you wear it. Pair a tailored, light-weight turtleneck with a blazer or bomber jacket to switch up your style, or layer a thick-knit turtleneck with a blazer (you can also wear it all on its own).  Courtesy of Todd Snyder, J.Crew, and BespokenFor better or worse, sweatpants will be popular all season long if the runways at J.Crew, Sibling, Todd Snyder, and Band of Outsiders are any indication.  If you do want to take part in this trend, keep your look sporty but polished with nice sneakers or boots, a fitted-shirt, and top the look with either a casual blazer or jacket. FREE AppDownload
They're the microscopic slices in our skin that we can't seem to shake. How can cuts so small be such a big problem? We dug up the science to find out why.
Business InsiderIf you want to trade the markets you have to live the markets — that means turning your trading desk into your second home. That's why we put out a call to our readers to send in pictures of their oh-so-important spaces, and the response was just awesome. The desks came in from Croatia to Chicago, Brazil to Switzerland. You sent us everything from massive desks with a bunch of screens to killer views that likely make the day go by a lot faster. Thanks. Keep 'em coming. If you would like to include your trading desk set up, feel free to send an email to jlaroche@businessinsider.com and llopez@businessinsider.com with a photo and a brief description.  FREE AppDownload
 Mark Patterson, cofounder of the private equity firm MatlinPatterson, has seen a lot of resumes in his day. In a recent interview with OneWire CEO Skiddy von Stade, Patterson shared one big red flag for him. Over the years he's learned that when he sees someone has hopped from job to job, spending two to three years at each spot "there's something wrong with them." To him, this is worse than being a kid with no experience, and he doesn't see ambition as an excuse for it. "I have no interest in the hopper," he said. "On the positive side, especially for the young ones, I want to see where they suffered in their lives and how they overcame that. I’m looking for fortitude, I’m looking for an endurance capacity in the individual.” Patterson himself is an avid racecar driver who has driven in 24-hour races (he talks about it in the video). So maybe try to match that? Watch the full interview above and subscribe to receive new Open Door interviews with industry leaders here.  FREE AppDownload
Twitter @nictradesThere are a bunch of ways to get high-speed information about markets. Most of them — like getting a Bloomberg terminal, for instance — will cost you an arm and a leg. Thankfully, there's Twitter. It's become a place where even the biggest names on Wall Street go to get a word (or 143 characters) out into the universe, and it can move markets. Business Insider has compiled a list of the best of financial Tweeters for you to use. These are people we follow all day, and if you're going to get serious about using this awesome tool, you should follow them too. Or even better, you join the conversation yourself. But you'd better add some value. FREE AppDownload
David Mdzinarishvili/ReutersUkrainian President Petro PoroshenkoWhile we see a great deal of media coverage of Ukraine-related geopolitical risks, there hasn't been sufficient discussion about the dire economic and fiscal conditions the nation is facing.  Writing about men in masks fighting in eastern Ukraine sells far more advertising than covering the nation's economic activity. However it's the economy, not the Russian army that has brought Ukraine close to the brink.  And just to be clear, some of Kiev's economic and fiscal problems were visible long before the spat with Russia (see post from 2012).Ukraine is now in recession. Deep economic ties with Russia have resulted in painful adjustments in recent months. The nation's exports are down some 19% from last year in dollar terms and expected to fall further. A great example of Ukraine's export challenges is the Antonov aircraft company known for its Soviet era large transport planes as well as other types of aircraft. As the military cooperation with Russia ended, Antonov was in trouble. It had to take a $150 million hit recently by not delivering the medium-range An-148 planes to the Russian Air Force. The Russians will find a replacement for this aircraft, but in the highly competitive global aircraft market, it's far less likely that Antonov will find another client.Here are some key indicators of Ukraine's worsening situation:1. The nation's GDP is down almost 5% from a year ago and growth is expected to worsen. 2. Ukraine's retail sales are falling at the rate we haven't seen since the financial crisis. 3. And industrial production is collapsing. 4. The most immediate concern however is the nation's currency, which has been trading near record lows in spite of currency controls. In fact Friday's fall in hryvnia was unprecedented (over 11%), as Kiev fails to stem capital outflows. Those who have spend any time in Ukraine during the winter know how harsh the weather can get. And at these valuations, hryvnia isn't going to buy much heating fuel from abroad. Furthermore, it's not clear if the government will have the wherewithal to provide sufficient assistance to the population.5. Inflation rate is running above 14% and will spike sharply from here in the next few months if the currency weakness persists. Real wages are collapsing.6. Finally, Ukraine's fiscal situation is unraveling. In its attempts to defend the currency, Kiev has been using up its foreign exchange reserves. It is only the access to some IMF funding that has allowed Ukraine's government to maintain some semblance of order in its FX markets. Moreover, public debt levels continue to rise as the government attempts to keep the Ukrainian banking system afloat. Fitch Ratings: - Government debt (including guarantees such as NBU liabilities to the IMF) to GDP has quadrupled since 2008, reflecting exchange rate depreciation, fiscal deficits, low growth and below-the-line costs such as recapitalisation of banks and Naftogaz. There is high dollarisation and foreign-currency exposure, making government solvency, banks' balance sheets and the overall economy vulnerable to sharp depreciation. A number of economists now believe that given worsening economic crisis, the country's public debt problem is simply unsustainable and default is becoming increasingly likely. Goldman: - We continue to see downside risks to activity and to our forecast for a contraction of output of 8% this year and for growth of 1% next year. As we recently argued, this severe economic weakness is likely to cause public debt to rise to 70% this year and 77% next year, above the IMF’s “high-risk threshold” for debt sustainability. These downside risks to our forecasts further call into question the sustainability of Ukraine’s debt trajectory. FREE AppDownload
Unemployment hit the US hard during the recession several years ago. But not all regions were affected equally, as county-level data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics shows. A GIF posted to Reddit by @MetricMaps shows how the unemployment rate changed in every county in the US over several years. Check it out:  The Great Plains region of the US seemed least affected by unemployment when the recession hit. Shale gas and oil along with rising commodity prices have led to a revival of the country's "flyover states" that rely heavily on agriculture as an industry, according to Forbes. The West Coast along with much of the Midwest and South were hit hard by unemployment during the Great Recession. Here's the 2009 map showing the damage: Reddit/Metric Maps FREE AppDownload
If you own a piece of Apple tech there's a good chance you've visited one of their retail locations. Every detail of each Apple store has been designed and planned out to influence the customer into spending more money as they shop and browse. Here's how it works. Layouts courtesy of ifoapplestore.com. Produced by Justin Gmoser. Follow BI Video: On Twitter   
REUTERS/Regis DuvignauFrench President Francois Hollande (R) welcomes German Chancellor Angela Merkel before the official lunch at Benouville Castle, June 6, 2014.BERLIN/PARIS (Reuters) - Germany and France will try to reconcile divergent visions of how to fix Europe's economy on Monday when Manuel Valls makes his first visit to Berlin as French prime minister and holds talks with Angela Merkel. The trip comes at a watershed moment, with the region struggling to shake off the aftermath of a prolonged financial crisis that has left its citizens poorer, increasingly jobless and turning to extremist politicians for answers. But the risk is that Valls and Merkel talk past each other: the Frenchman urging a dash for growth and understanding from Berlin on France's broken fiscal promises, and the German leader asking the politically impossible of Paris on budgetary rigor and reform. The outcome of their one-hour lunch in Merkel's chancellery will be scrutinized in other euro zone capitals – not least in Athens, Dublin, Portugal and Madrid, where leaders have played by the EU rule book and subjected their countries to genuine austerity. "We have no interest in humiliating the French," said one German official who requested anonymity. "But we would like to extract something out of them – including real, verifiable action on structural reform – in exchange for letting them off the hook," he said. "The problem will be to find a compromise that is acceptable politically to both the French and the Germans." A decade ago, past leaders of Europe's two largest economies reneged on promises to rein in their public deficits - a transgression some say undermined the bloc's rules on budget discipline and helped set the stage for its sovereign debt crisis five years later. The difference is that Berlin gradually went about bringing its fiscal house into order, imposing wage moderation and enacting controversial labor reforms. France largely stood still - and missed at least three more deficit targets. Earlier this month it acknowledged that it would not bring its deficit down within EU limits until 2017. Initially, it had pledged to do so by 2013, before winning a reprieve until 2015. "Granting France yet another two years on the deficit will create problems in other euro zone members," said Daniela Schwarzer of the German Marshall Fund in Berlin. "Countries like Portugal, which were forced to take tough measures, will see a double-standard. Others will try to free-ride on the flexibility granted to France. The Germans are very aware of this." Valls is a centrist within the Socialist party who ahead of his Berlin visit has repeatedly name-checked Gerhard Schroeder the Social Democrat ex-chancellor credited with Germany's reform push of the 2000s. He will aim to convince Merkel he can do the same job for France. His agenda in Germany sends an economy-friendly signal. After a red carpet welcome with military honors on Monday, Valls will give a speech to German businessmen on Tuesday. He then travels to the Hamburg site of Franco-German planemaker Airbus and to Stuttgart, the heart of German industrial might. The snag is that what Valls can achieve during the remaining two years of President Francois Hollande's term may fall well short of Merkel's expectations. Two main reform projects are currently in the works: a "law on growth" aimed at freeing up trading hours and tightly regulated sectors in the French economy from pharmacists to legal professionals; and an easing of restrictions on companies to provide worker representation and other benefits. Both are controversial with unions and the French left and have already sparked street protests and threats of strikes. Yet few in Berlin believe that reforms being undertaken in France currently match those done in Germany. "Very little has been done. They need to do much more," said an aide to the chancellor. Valls survived a confidence vote on his newly reshuffled government last week but did not obtain an absolute majority - meaning that any future attempts to rein in public spending or enact reforms risk being held hostage by rebel leftists. Moreover his once healthy poll ratings have been hit by his association with Hollande, whose public standing has been ripped to shreds by his failure to improve the lot of ordinary French, his indecisive leadership and messy private life. The contrast with Merkel, who has emerged as Europe's dominant leader with popularity ratings at home of over 70 percent, could not be greater. Valls will do his best to ignore the imbalance and project an image of strength in Berlin, telling reporters on Friday he was looking forward to the meeting "in a positive spirit" but was not there to seek Germany's indulgence. "I'm the first to say we must cut the public deficit," he said, noting that France has pledged to seek an unprecedented 50 billion euros in savings between now and 2017. "But cutting it at a forced march is out of the question." He will point to French air strikes against Islamic State (IS) militants in Iraq, which began Friday, as proof Paris takes its responsibilities seriously. Germany agreed to send arms to Kurdish fighters battling IS but will have no part in strikes. Any signs from Valls of weakness in Berlin would be seized upon by his political opponents at home, above all Marine Le Pen and her France-first National Front. "The central argument of Valls will be: we haven't changed our goals but there is less growth in Europe, less growth in France and less inflation. The context has changed, not the will to reform," said Claire Demesmay of the German Council on Foreign Relations (DGAP). Whether Merkel accepts this argument is doubtful. She also has political constraints in the form of the Alternative for Germany (AfD), a rising new German euroskeptic party that is unsettling her Christian Democrats (CDU). If she goes too easy on France - for example granting Paris more time on the deficit without new reform commitments - the AfD and many within her own party would cry foul. Nor is Merkel likely to accede to French wishes for more German stimulus. Her government's top goal is to deliver on its own promise to balance the federal budget next year for the first time since 1969. Any spending that might endanger this target is seen as taboo. "The chancellor is adamant about this," the Merkel aide said. And if Berlin allows leeway on the deficit, France must be seen to do something in return. "Behind closed doors, while Germany will certainly push France on reform and (budget) consolidation, France will be given more time and flexibility," said Christian Odendahl, chief economist at the London-based Centre for European Reform (CER). "But it just must not appear that way to the German public." (editing by Anna Willard) FREE AppDownload
© AFP/File Leon NealScotland's "No" campaign focused on the economic dangers of independence.London (AFP) - Scots were driven to reject independence in a historic referendum more out of fears over the economic risks of going alone than a strong attachment to the United Kingdom, a survey analysis shows. The post-referendum survey by independent pollster Lord Michael Ashcroft also reveals that young people voted in droves to break up the centuries-old union -- suggesting that a future referendum might go the other way. The "No" campaign focused on the economic dangers of independence, in particular warning of uncertainty over the currency after the British government said the separatists would not be able to keep the pound. Ashcroft's survey of 2,047 people who cast ballots in Thursday's referendum, weighted to reflect the 55 percent who voted against independence, reveals that the message hit home. When "No" voters were presented with three options explaining their decision, some 47 percent said the risks were too great when it came to matters such as the currency, EU membership, the economy, jobs and prices. Around 27 percent said they were driven by a strong attachment to the United Kingdom, its shared history, culture and traditions. And around 25 percent said it was the promise of new powers for the devolved Scottish Parliament that would result in "the best of both worlds".  By contrast, "by far the biggest single driver for 'Yes' voters was disaffection with Westminster politics", said Ashcroft, a former Conservative party donor, in an online commentary. Seven in 10 "Yes" voters said they were most concerned that decisions about Scotland be taken in Scotland, while 20 percent said they were driven by the feeling that the future would be brighter as an independent country. One in 10 said their main reason for backing independence was to ensure they would no longer be ruled by Conservative governments.  British Prime Minister David Cameron's party is currently the biggest in Westminster but has just one Scottish MP. Warnings that independence was the only way to save the state-run National Health Service (NHS) from savage spending cuts also made their mark, with 54 percent of "Yes" voters saying it was an important factor. After a slow burning campaign that reached a frenzy in the last fortnight when opinion polls suggested the "Yes" camp might deliver a shock win, two-thirds of those who made up their minds in the last few days voted "Yes". Despite the clear result, the survey indicates that the issue of independence has not been decided for good. Some 71 percent of 16- to 17-year-olds, who were allowed to vote for the first time in a British election, voted "Yes", while 73 percent of people over 65 voted "No". And although Cameron said the issue of independence had now been settled for a generation, many voters believe the referendum may be re-run sooner. Some 31 percent said the issue was settled for five years, 17 percent for a decade, 24 percent for a generation -- while 19 percent said independence would never be revisited. The respondents were interviewed by telephone and online.   FREE AppDownload
Business InsiderCisco's legendary engineering triumvirate 'MarioPremLuca.'There are three legendary engineers at Cisco known as "the heart, soul and brains" of the company: Mario Mazzola, Prem Jain, and Luca Cafiero. Over the past 20 years, Cisco CEO John Chambers has funneled $2.38 billion to them and their teams, even though, for much of their careers, they have technically not worked at Cisco at all. It's a highly unusual way to retain top talent, something known as a "spin-in." A "spin-in" is a form of R&amp;D in which a company is the sole investor in a startup. It sends a team of employees off to build an experimental product and then buys that startup for a predetermined and very healthy price. Cisco has spent on average $763 million to acquire each spin-in that these three men have founded, even though Cisco was also the sole investor in each. How odd is this setup? Imagine if Apple sent its stars like Jony Ive, Jeff Williams, Craig Federighi, and Eddy Cue off to an Apple-funded startup every time it wanted to build a new product like a music player, smartphone, or smartwatch, and then paid them three-quarters of a billion dollars to own the product when it was done. Sounds ridiculous, right? It's the job of these guys to create new products for Apple. Not so for Cisco. Chambers has been pouring cash on these guys for more than two decades, since Cisco's very first acquisition back in 1993, before he was even CEO. But here's the startling thing: By all accounts, the people we interviewed say the strange setup has been as good for Cisco as it has for these men. Our sources included two former Cisco execs, a network industry expert, Wall Street analysts and public documents about the transactions. Opus OneJoel Snyder, senior partner Opus One.To see what we mean, search for the words "spin in" on Google. G'head. We'll wait. Chances are, the articles that popped up were all about Cisco and a company called Insieme Networks that Cisco funded (spending $135 million on that), then immediately bought the day it demonstrated a product (another $863 million). From startup to sale took 21 months, Chambers recently said, and cost Cisco nearly $1 billion. Insieme created Cisco's next-generation networking product, now called the Nexus 9000. It gives the company game in a new market called software-defined networking that changes how computer networks are built. SDN threatens to disrupt Cisco's $21 billion router/switch business and without a SDN product, Cisco could be toast. It's unusual that a company would hand off such an important product to a "startup," but not at Cisco. This is the third such "spin-in" done with the same three core engineers, each of which has cost Cisco hundreds of millions dollars. And it's actually the fourth company that Cisco has bought from these men. "It's not just unusual, its unprecedented. The whole idea of the spin-in is unprecedented and to do it three times with the same guys – ," says Joel Snyder, cofounder of Opus One, a company that helps enterprises build corporate networks. (Snyder is also a product reviewer for Network World and so well-respected in the field that he was the only person Cisco invited to do a hands-on test of the Insieme product shortly after it was announced.) On Cisco's campus in San Jose, these three engineers are downright worshiped. They are universally called "nice guys" by every source we spoke to. They even have their own "super-couple-like" name and acronym: they are known as "MarioPremLuca" spoken as one word. When adding in Soni Jiandani, an engineer who handles marketing and has been with MarioPremLuca since their first spin-in, the team "is known affectionately as 'MPLS,'" writes Cisco senior director Shashi Kiran. That's a cute a play on words. MPLS is a popular technology for building high-performance networks that Cisco helped invent. "Mario is the soul. Luca is the brain. Prem is the heart. And Sonja is the mouth," described one of the former Cisco execs who worked with the team. The other former exec said, "MarioPremLuca have a lot of following and respect throughout the company. They’ve delivered multiple times. They attract the best talent. These are real visionaries and technical leaders. They've defined new product categories and make things happen that mere mortals wouldn't think to do." CiscoSoni Jiandani. MarioPremLuca are responsible for nearly every breakout product Cisco has ever had. These guys ARE Cisco. Even Cisco's famed acquisition strategy can be traced back to them. Their company Crescendo Communications was Cisco's very first purchase back in 1993 for a stock deal valued at $94.5 million when it was announced. Wall Street was shocked by the acquisition at the time and the stock took a nose dive. Cisco CEO John Chambers recently said he paid $92 million for it. It was also Chambers' first acquisition at the company, before he was CEO – he was senior vice president running sales and operations. (Chambers has loved acquisitions ever since, averaging about 10 a year, as we previously reported.) Crescendo made something called a network "switch," a new piece of hardware to build high-speed networks. It was threatening Cisco's core business at the time, which was a piece of equipment called the "router." Crescendo evolved into Cisco's Catalyst 6000/6500 business (known in the industry as the "Cat6"). It became one of "the most successful networking products sold on earth" describes Snyder. APCisco CEO John Chambers in 2000. When Cisco bought Crescendo, it acquired another engineer, Jayshree Ullal in the deal. Ullal led Crescendo's marketing and stayed with Cisco for 15 years, eventually being named senior vice president of data center &amp; switching, reporting to John Chambers. Chambers just talked about that first acquisition at the Fortune Brainstorm conference in July.  "In 1993, we made our first acquisition ... and the stock went down," he said. "I paid about $92 million on a company with a couple million in revenue. It generates $13 billion in revenue today with great gross margins." CiscoThe first products from MarioPremLuca: Cisco Catlyst switches. CiscoMario Mazzolla.Mazzola was raised in Sicily. His first engineering job was for Italian telecom giant Olivetti in the 1970s and that company's partnerships with Intel brought him to Silicon Valley. In the 1980s, with backing from Olivetti and VCs, he left to launch his first startup called David Systems, reports Network World. The startup wanted to put voice calls and data on the same network, a tech that wouldn't succeed for a couple more decades. But it was at David Systems that the MarioPremLuca team was formed. They went on to found Crescendo, and to work together for the next 30 years. The most famous story about Mazzola is this: When negotiating with Chambers over Cisco's acquisition of Crescendo, Mazzola insisted that Cisco keep all 62 of Crescendo's employees for at least two years. From that came the "Mario Rule" at Cisco, reports Network World, which says that before any employee of a newly acquired company is terminated, both CEOs must give their consent. In May 2000, when he was 54, he tried to retire from Cisco. His coworkers threw a party. Cisco issued a press release. Instead, he wound up doing Cisco's first spin-in, funded in 2001. And in 2005, he would try to retire again only to wind up doing the second spin-in. CiscoPrem Jain.Jain was raised in India and attended the prestigious Birla Institute of Technology and Science in the early 1970s, the MIT of India. A graduate degree in electrical engineering brought him to California and the University of California, Davis. He worked with Mazzola at David Systems as the director of engineering and left with him to cofound Crescendo. He's known both as a man of very few words and a very humble guy. For instance, on a recent interview with Indian blog Yourstory.com, Jain shared this advice: Stay grounded; never try to become a star. CiscoLuca Cafiero.Cafiero was also raised in Italy and of the three, he's the most camera shy, rarely giving interviews or talking in public at all, and sticking to technology when he does open up.  Like the others, he's known as a very nice human being. Because both he and Mazzola are Italian, so are a handful of other engineers that have worked with MarioPremLuca since the beginning. (We're told the offices of a MarioPremLuca spin-in feel like stepping into Italy and they serve the best-tasting coffee in the Valley.) He, like the other two, holds several patents. Like Mazzola in 2005, he also famously tried to retire. When he left Cisco, Ullal, known as Mazzola's protege, was promoted to his job. But instead of really retiring, he joined Mario and Prem at another Cisco spin-in. MarioPremLuca fired up their first spin-in 2001, with Soni Jiandani joining the team. It was a company called Andiamo Systems. Andiamo's task was to build Cisco's first storage product (in geek speak a Fibre channel SAN switch). Cisco put up $184 million in funding and a year later, in 2002, agreed to buy it. It didn't close that deal until 2004 and wound up paying ~$750 million in Cisco stock. The price was ultimately based on how big a market Cisco thought it could capture. Competitor Brocade has always dominated the fibre channel market and still does, with 54% of it, according to market research firm Infonetics. It's also a market in decline, dropping 7% in 2013, replaced by newer ways of using computer storage. "Andiamo wasn't really that important," says Snyder. Cisco begs to differ, a spokesperson tells us this product has done well, and Cisco's market share is growing: "To date, Cisco has more than 125,000 storage networking switches installed at more than 20,000 customer sites." CiscoMarioPremLuca's second product: Cisco MDS 9000 family of switches.   Two years later, in 2006, Cisco tapped the dream team to push itself into another brand-new market: computer servers. The idea was to create a new kind of server, one that bundled together the computer, the storage, the network and a new kind of operating system called "virtualization" pioneered by VMware. MarioPremLuca, already star engineers in the Valley, even convinced VMware cofounder Ed Bugnion to join the team. EPFIEdouard Bugnion. Cisco invested $70+ million and Nuova Systems was born. The team made the product known as the Unified Computing Systems (UCS) servers. In 2008, Cisco bought Nuova Systems for $678 million. This product is doing well for Cisco. HP is still the biggest vendor of this type of server by revenue worldwide, with a 43.7% share, compared with Cisco's 24.4%, IDC data shows.  But the UCS product is on track to be a $3 billion business for Cisco, Chambers told analysts in August. In 2011, after the golden handcuffs were unlocked, Bugnion left Cisco to earn his Ph.D. and become a professor. CiscoA Cisco UCS server. The second product MarioPremLuca produced from a spin-in. In 2012, the MarioPremLuca team launched Insieme, a software-defined network startup. Cisco invested $135 million and in November, 2013, the day it publicly demonstrated the product (the Nexus 9000), Cisco bought Insieme for $863 million.  For the most part, the products MarioPremLuca brought in were brand-new categories for Cisco. But Insieme was different. This was the first time that MarioPremLuca were asked to create a core networking product that Cisco could have done itself. Cisco engineers are leaving in droves to work on SDN startups. It's the coolest new tech in their field.  And there's a lot at stake for Cisco. Get it wrong, and the company becomes another DEC or Sun Microsystems. Sources told us that Cisco's corporate culture has too many fiefdoms, too much politics, to build such an important product in-house. And remember, this product turns the network into software. Cisco doesn't have enough software experts, COO Gary Moore made clear when he talked to the Cisco troops about the latest round of layoffs.  Both former Cisco execs we talked to expect the Nexus 9000 to "hit it out of the ballpark" and easily pay for itself, like Nuova Systems did with UCS and Crescendo did with the Cat6. Cisco says it's seeing a lot of interest in the new product already. Nearly 600 customers are testing it and 60 customers have already bought it, Chambers told analysts in August. Snyder, one of the few people who has seen the product and can publicly talk about it, isn't so sure. CiscoThe third MarioPremLuca spin-in product, the Nexus 9000 switch.The Nexus 9000 is a radically new product with two sides. Flip a switch and you get Cisco's fastest network switch. Some companies will simply want that. But that isn't SDN. Flip the switch and you get the brand new thing that MarioPremLuca built with the fancy new SDN software. But it's complicated to get that to work well with older Cisco products. And it's lacking features found in other Cisco products, Snyder says. "Insieme guys wanted to do something completely different and radical and it's completely different. Nothing you know about Cisco applies," says Snyder. Will it sell well? "The jury is still out," he says. Cisco's acquisition costs for all four MarioPremLuca companies: $2.38 billion. And this does not include Cisco's original investment to bankroll the startups, Cisco confirmed to us. That's another $289 million. Flickr/CiscoCisco CEO John Chambers When not running a "spin-in," all three men have held regular jobs at Cisco. Although not currently listed among Cisco's top executives Mario Mazzola has been Cisco's chief development officer. Prem Jain has been a senior vice president and the director of engineering. Luca Cafiero has been the senior VP and GM of Switching, Voice and Storage (SVS) Group at Cisco Systems. But we'll never know how much of the $2.38 billion fell directly into their pockets. Under the spin-in setup they were not technically "Section 16 Officers," – meaning not top execs running the company. So Cisco had no obligation to publicly report info about their stock ownership. There was one exception. In 2004, Mazzola was an officer. That was the year Cisco completed the Andiamo Systems purchase. He cashed out of $23 million in stock options that year, according to insider trading site, SECform4.com. No SEC trading records are available for Jain or Cafiero. Still, records or not, these men have obviously been paid well each time Cisco bought companies. The structure of the spin-ins from an accounting point of view is "unusual," says Wall Street analyst Mark Sue, managing director at RBC Capital Markets. "Investors like simplicity," he tell us, and these deals are not simple. By labeling them investments in startups, instead of R&amp;D expenditures for new products in a  business unit, Cisco has moved them from a "period expense" to "a balance investment sheet item," Sue explains. The lump sum that Cisco spent is accounted for in the books, but investors can't see things like how much money it took to develop the product, versus how much money was a payday for employees. NasdaqCisco ringing opening bell 2005. Another potential downside: Did Cisco get the best possible product it could have by doing product development this way? "Tech is about innovation. The best innovation comes from bootstrapped start ups that want to do something disruptive," Sue says. In contrast, MarioPremLuca commanded all the resources they needed, with the acquisition price range already decided in advance. "It's like the tip for parties of five or more at a restaurant already added to your meal. Sometimes you get better service when the motivating factor is tip at the end," Sue notes. That said, Sue also says that these products have done well for the company and as a strategy to keep key employees, it has worked well. Wall Street analyst Bill Kreher for Edward Jones agrees that Cisco's spin-ins are unusual. He can't think of another tech company using this tactic to this extent, he told us. But he also says Cisco has been using them effectively. "They provide those engineers with the independence to purse new technologies without encroaching on Cisco’s business," Kreher says. Investors have not been overly concerned, he says. They want Cisco  to"quit making dumb acquisitions" like the Flip camera, but they give Cisco leeway to finance product development this way. "Cisco has a very impressive balance sheet, that provides them the flexibility to pursue projects and still weather the storm," Kreher says. Although MarioPremLuca are worshiped on campus, there has been a downside: hard feelings by those left out. "What does it mean for folks who didn’t go out as part of a spin-in? Who don't see some of that windfall? There have been folks miffed about it," one of our former Cisco employee sources said. One of those people was rumored to be Ullal and that's why she left the company, a source says. Although she came from Crescendo, she wasn't part of the spin-ins. AristaArista CEO Jayshree Ullal. A source close to her says this isn't true. She wasn't upset to be left out. She was frustrated by what the spin-in setup was doing to her employees. After leaving Cisco, Ullal was openly critical of the spin-in model and still feels the same way today, our source says. In May 2008, shortly after the people who were part of Nuova came back to her team, she left Cisco for personal reasons. "It’s a nightmare when the guy in the next cubicle is a multimillionaire and you aren’t, because you weren’t chosen," she told Forbes, describing what her employees were feeling. A few months later, she became CEO of Arista, which was founded by Google investor billionaires and Valley engineering legends. Our sources say MarioPremLuca didn't do these spin-ins for the money, at least not for themselves. For instance, Insieme had about 280 employees when Cisco bought it, Cisco confirmed. All covered by The Mario Rule. CNBCCisco CEO John Chambers. And most Cisco insiders believe that MarioPremLuca could have made more money, maybe even billions more, had they left Cisco. Look at Ullal's company. She left Cisco in 2008 to become CEO of Arista Networks, a startup looking to take on Cisco with a new kind of networking product. Arista has done well. It's a profitable company that went public in June and investors love it. It currently has a market cap of about $5.36 billion. Ullal, who isn't even a cofounder, has an 11% stake worth about $636 million, based on current share price of about $85, according to the forms filed with the SEC. Meanwhile, the largest shareholder, Arista cofounder David Cheriton's 22% stake, is worth $1.21 billion. "There's no question spin-ins were a good thing from dollars and cents perspective for Cisco," one of our former executive sources told us. "MarioPremLuca probably would have been paid that kind of money for their startups anyway. Plus, Cisco had to make sure that they stayed within Cisco’s orbit, didn’t get acquired by someone else." Our other former Cisco exec agreed, telling us, "What choice did John [Chambers] have?" But it's still a sweet deal for MarioPremLuca. They had virtually unlimited resources including funds, talent, office space, equipment with no need to develop a business model or hire a salesforce, and a guaranteed payoff in the end. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersScotland's First Minister Salmond speaking during a news conference in Edinburgh.MANCHESTER England (Reuters) - Alex Salmond, the defeated leader of Scotland's nationalists, on Sunday accused Prime Minister David Cameron and other London politicians of tricking Scottish voters out of independence by making a false "vow" about granting them new powers. Salmond, who is stepping down as leader of the pro-independence Scottish National Party (SNP) after spearheading a failed campaign for Scotland to leave the United Kingdom, said Britain's three main political parties had won last Thursday's referendum vote by 55-45 percent by deception. "I think the vow was something cooked up in desperation for the last few days of the campaign and I think everyone in Scotland now realizes that," said Salmond, referring to a pledge made by Cameron and other leaders two days before the referendum to rapidly expand Scottish autonomy in the event of a "No" vote. Though Cameron has said he is determined to deliver the new settlement he has since linked new powers for Scotland to agreeing new constitutional arrangements for the rest of Britain, including England, at the same time. But the opposition Labour party has rejected the linkage, raising the possibility that political squabbling could delay a new deal for Scotland. "It is the people who were persuaded to vote no (in the referendum) who were misled, who were gulled, who were tricked effectively," Salmond told BBC TV. "They are the ones who are really angry." (Reporting by Andrew Osborn and Kylie MacLellan; Editing by Andrew Osborn) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersSoftBank Corp. Chief Executive Son attends a news conference in TokyoTOKYO (Reuters) - Japan's SoftBank Corp said it expected a gain of about 500 billion yen ($4.6 billion) from Alibaba Group Holding's share listing in New York, where the Chinese e-commerce leader surged 38 percent on its first day of trade. SoftBank CEO Masayoshi Son also told CNBC that he would want to own more of Alibaba, although he reiterated that the Japanese mobile carrier and Internet media company was happy with the current 32 percent stake, which made it the Chinese company's biggest shareholder. Asked if he would like more of Alibaba, Son told CNBC on Friday: "Of course." Pressed on the likelihood of buying more shares, Son added: "Anything is possible but we are happy the way it is." He said SoftBank considered Alibaba a core holding and he was upbeat about the Chinese company's future. "My point of view is that this is the true beginning of Alibaba," he said. "I'm very, very optimistic." SoftBank said in a statement on Saturday that it would book the estimated 500 billion yen gain in the half-year to end-September and would announce a precise figure at a later time. The gain was recorded to reflect Alibaba's increased asset value with the issuance of new shares and the conversion of preference shares to common stock in conjunction with the listing. The Chinese e-commerce leader's shares surged in their Friday debut on the New York Stock Exchange as investors jumped at what is likely to rank as the largest IPO in history, betting on Chinese growth and a company that accounts for 80 percent of that country's online sales.  (Reporting by Yuka Obayashi, Teppei Kasai and Yoshiyasu Shida; Writing by Edmund Klamann; Editing by Simon Cameron-Moore) FREE AppDownload
