REUTERS/Fred ProuserMonster Beverage shares are up more than 20% after Coca-Cola announced plans to take a 16.7% stake in the company worth $2.15 billion. Coke said it will a 16.7% equity stake in the company and will have two directors on Monster's board.  Following the announcement Coke shares are up 1.4% after hours.  In exchange, Monster will move its non-energy business to Coke and the company's will enter into expanded distribution agreements. Coke CEO Muhtar Kent said, "Our equity investment in Monster is a capital efficient way to bolster our participation in the fast-growing and attractive global energy drinks category." This deal from Coke comes after the company took a 10% stake in Keurig Green Mountain back in February  Here's the full release from Coca-Cola. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike Segar David EinhornDavid Einhorn trimmed his stake in Apple, bringing his total holdings in the iPhone maker to about 9.4 million shares on a split-adjusted basis, according to his latest 13F filing with the SEC.  In June, Apple executed a 7-for-1 stock split, and Einhorn's holdings in the company are worth about $878 million.  Einhorn also added substantially to his holding in Sunedison, adding more than 9 million shares to bring his take to above 21 million shares worth more than $480 million.  A 13F requires hedge funds to disclose their long positions within 45 days after a quarter ends, and so Thursday's filing represents Einhorn's holdings as of June 30. Einhorn also initiated new stakes in AerCap holdings and the recently-public Time Inc., which houses the print assets formerly bundled under Time Warner.  Among the stakes Einhorn reduced were his holdings in Anadarko Petroleum, which he sold down by 50% leaving him with a stake of 1.1 million shares worth $122 million. Einhorn also pared his holdings in Micron Technology, selling 3.6 million shares worth, though he still holds more than 40 million shares worth $1.3 billion in the semiconductor manufacturer.  Einhorn also sold out of his stake in Nokia and Rite Aid.  (Update: An earlier version of this report incorrectly stated at Greenlight added to its stake in Apple.) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jeff ZelevanskyCarl Icahn. Carl Icahn now has 45 million more shares of Apple, according to his latest 13F filing with the SEC. Icahn's filing, however, reflects the 7-for-1 stock split the company executed in June, so the value of his holdings, which is just less than $5 billion now, reflects the price appreciation in Apple since Icahn's last 13F filed in May. Icahn's filing also showed that he sold another 480,000 shares of Netflix, bringing his holding in the internet streaming video service to 1.76 million shares worth about $777 million. A 13F requires hedge funds to disclose their long positions within 45 days after a quarter ends, and so Thursday's filing represents Icahn's holdings as of June 30. Icahn's 13F also showed that he took a new 2.7 million share stake in Gannett, though a subsequent filing with the SEC on Thursday shows that Icahn significantly increased this stake to nearly 15 million shares. Icahn said he took a stake in the company because he believed it was undervalued and would benefit from a split of its print and broadcasting assets. Gannett announced on August 5 it would do just that, and Icahn said he plans to have discussions with management regarding the planned separation, though he has not done so to this point. In after hours trade on Thursday Gannett shares were up more than 5.5%.  FREE AppDownload
Meet the newest investing buzzword on the block. "Gender lens investing is investing for gender equality while seeking a positive financial return," says Jackie VanderBrug, senior vice president and investment strategist at U.S. Trust. In the Stanford Social Innovation Review's "The Rise Of Gender Capitalism," VanderBrug and her coauthor Sarah Kaplan point out that the International Finance Corporation (IFC) estimates a $320 billion difference worldwide between the money women entrepreneurs and business owners are seeking and the funding they actually receive. As such, there's enormous potential for investors to close that gap. While a person could choose to give money philanthropically to causes and businesses that support women around the world, VanderBrug says that an investor with a gender lens is looking to support women while making money of their own. There's no universal, prescriptive approach to investing with a gender lens, but in "The Rise Of Gender Capitalism," the authors explore three potential methods: providing access to capital, promoting workplace equity, and "creating products and services that affect the lives of women and girls, from clean cook stoves in Africa to pharmaceuticals that have been tested on women and adjusted for them." While those methods may not seem directly related to investment returns, the authors write that it isn't single steps that will benefit investors in the long run, but rather a reshaping of the companies and industries in which they invest. The authors write: "We must engage trillions of dollars of investment capital to capture the gains that come from paying attention to the systemic problem of devaluing women." The approach has already become somewhat common practice in certain fields, like microfinance and angel investing. The authors list a handful of lenders, venture capital firms, and nonprofits that have been investing with this lens, including Morgan Stanley's Parity Portfolio and venture capital firm Illuminate Ventures. The IFC alone has committed about $175 million to invest in women-owned businesses. VanderBrug says that although the word "gender" tends to bring women to mind, gender lens investing isn't a practice exclusive to women. "Men play a huge role," she says. In her experience, men recognize that women are becoming an economic force, and that — especially in the case of millennial men — they're just as interested as women in workplaces that allow for diversity. "When I speak," VanderBrug recalls, "men will come up and tell me about their amazing daughters and the world they want them to live in, and that they want them to have an equal shot."  Lucky for investors, gender lens investing is becoming somewhat mainstream.  "The parallel is environmental investing, now called sustainable investing," VanderBrug says. "A decade ago, if an individual went to their advisor and asked about the environmental impact of their investments, the advisor would say, 'We can't answer that, and even if we could, you couldn't invest that way and make money.' Now, we do know the impact of portfolios on our environment, and it's possible to invest in a way that supports your environmental values. In terms of gender, you can say that you'd like to understand the impact of your portfolio on women and girls." "We're not talking about ethically losing money," VanderBrug continues. "We're talking about aligning your values with your investments, and that's a completely different situation." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Dylan Martinez Argentina's Lionel Messi (R) takes a free kick near Netherlands' players (L-2nd R) Nigel de Jong, Robin van Persie, Stefan de Vrij, Ron Vlaar and Bruno Martins Indi during their 2014 World Cup semi-finals at the Corinthians arena in Sao Paulo July 9, 2014. FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors.  The Recent Market Volatility Is A Reminder To Look At Defensive Funds (Morningstar) In the last few years, risky choices have certainly paid off. But the recent market volatility — the Vix is up 10% over the past 30 days — is a wake-up call that sometimes risk-taking "may not be so well rewarded", according to Christine Benz. Following the news of geopolitical turmoil, not-cheap equity valuations, and the prospect of rising interests, it's time to start looking at more defensive funds. People are inclined to shy away from the "more risk-conscious holdings" today, because they've lagged relative to the riskier options during this "extended equity-market rally." But if there will be continued market volatility, you'll want to have some options that can "hold their ground." Benz writes that they "filtered [their] funds with Morningstar Analyst Ratings of Bronze of higher, then added some performance-based screens, including subpar five-year returns but below-average 2008 losses and good risk ratings" in order to compile "an attractive mix of defensive-minded equity, balanced, and bond funds." Some of the best they found include: Protect Your Municipal Bond Gains With These Three Steps (BlackRock) "The municipal market has been on a tear this year. And I'll be the first to admit — we didn't necessarily expect it," writes BlackRock's Peter Hayes. He adds that "overall, municipal bonds continue to be a favorable fixed income option" at BlackRock. But instead of trying to "reach for more," right now it's important to focus on protecting these recent gains. Hayes suggests the following three ways to do so: 1) The uncertainty of the market "demands a high level of adaptability." So if you have a flexible strategy, you can add a lot of diversification to your municipal allocation in this situation. 2) "The middle portion of the municipal yield curve (short and intermediate maturities) is looking relatively pricey at this juncture. For that reason, we suggest a barbell approach that favors maturities below two years on one end (for trading flexibility) and above 15 years on the other for some potential yield pick-up. While short-term and intermediate munis are looking expensive, we think longer maturities continue to appear attractive versus Treasuries and, we believe, represent absolute and relative value." 3) Let the professionals deal with credit research because they have a better understanding of issuers' willingness to pay back, and also are better at determining new precedents. Emerging Market Equities Are Looking Up, But Keep An Eye Out For Volatility (AllianceBernstein) Things are finally starting to look up for emerging markets, but it's still important to consider several factors. AllianceBernstein's Morgan Harting writes that it's important to not be "paralyzed" by the ongoing geopolitical crises. Even after all of the developments this year, "EM equities have delivered a respectable 15% return." The actual thing to worry about with EM equities is volatility — and allocations will need to overcompensate for this. "In our view," Harting writes, "that means finding ways to generate meaningfully higher returns than the index and/or employing strategies to reduce volatility." Harting adds that they "expect markets such as Vietnam, Nigeria, Colombia and Qatar to become more significant constituents in global portfolios." Remember These Important Strategies When Dealing With Clients (Financial Planning) Sometimes there's a disconnect between the advisor and the client. But here are several things to keep in mind in order to maximize your success, and keep winning over new clients, according to Ann Marsh. Firstly, be precise and skip the fluff. Clients want to know what's actually going on. They don't need or want to hear the elaborate, unnecessary details; but they also don't need the extremely vague sketches. Just tell them upfront what's what. And make sure you don't speak as though you think you are superior to them — that just won't end well. Focus on your clients; don't just talka about your firm. They're not interested in working for your company so you don't need to advertise it. Instead, talk about what you can do for your client, and ask them what they need. After all, they'll only be interested if you can offer them something.  Everyone's Getting Nervous About Robo-Advisors, But People Have The Upper Hand In Certain Areas (Investment News) People across industries are worried that soon robots will take over their positions. And the advent of robo-advisors has gotten some financial advisors pretty nervous. However, as an advisor you deal with people and their emotions — and there are some things that robo-advisors can't do. You can help clients see the bigger picture, and help them make the right decisions when they aren't thinking clearly. Sometimes people get emotionally attached to an event — for example, the 2008 drop or the death of a spouse, according to Liz Skinner. In a situation like this, you can suggest "gradual changes in a portfolio" so that your client can overcome these mental biases.  Additionally, robo-advisors might know the technical answer to why a certain solution works, but your client may not understand it. As an advisor, you can help connect the idea to something relevant in your client's life — so that they have a better understanding of what they are doing. FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesWarren BuffettWarren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway has taken a new 2.3 million share stake in Charter Communications worth more than $365 million.  In after hours trade on Thursday, Charter shares were up 1.8%.  Buffett's latest 13F filing with the SEC also showed that the investing legend increased his stake in Verizon substantially, adding about 4 million shares to bring his stake above 15 million shares worth about $733 million.  A 13F requires hedge funds to disclose their long positions within 45 days after a quarter ends, and so Thursday's filing represents Berkshire's holdings as of June 30. Buffett also sold out of his entire position in Starz, but still holds 4 million shares of Liberty Media, the parents company of Starz.  Among the notable positions Buffett sold down substantially were his stakes in ConocoPhillips, of which he sold 9.7 million shares, and DirecTV, of which he offloaded 11 million share.  Some of the notable positions in Berkshire's portfolio that remained unchanged were the 463 million share stake in Wells Fargo, which is worth about $24.3 billion, and Buffett's 400 million share stake in Coca-Cola worth $16.9 billion.  This announcement by Berkshire Hathaway also comes as Class A shares of the company eclipsed $200,000 per share for the first time, closing at $202,850.00 on Thursday.  FREE AppDownload
On his 30th birthday, Harvard Business School dropout and serial entrepreneur Ryan Allis released a 1,284-slide PowerPoint titled, "Lessons From My 20s," and it's all you can imagine and more. Writes Valleywag's Nitasha Tiku: "It's what 'The Secret' sounds like after you lock yourself in a conference room with a week's supply of Soylent and a whiteboard." Allis's insights, explored over 1,284 slides, range from: www.scribd.com To: www.scribd.com To: www.scribd.comHe also gives practical advice. Some of it is specific: www.scribd.com Some of it is vague: www.scribd.com Although mostly fine advice, the presentation boils down to a several-hours lesson on how to be Ryan Allis. Now Allis is clearly a successful guy — worth an estimated $40 million, he is the founder of digital marketing company iContact, CEO of social network Connect, chairman of leader network Hive, and more — but the wunderkind also has some significant blind spots. First, he seems to believe every deep thought he has ever had is profoundly important. He could learn a thing or two about self-editing, not to mention the humility that is key to good leadership. Second, he apparently believes his every idiosyncratic habit plays a critical role in being successful. Since he writes down his 90-day, one-year, 10-year, and lifetime goals and frames them on his wall; since he can "clearly express [his] life purpose in 15 words or less with authentic excitement"; since he stalks mentors, exiles mediocre friends, holds weekly dinner roundtables with extraordinary friends, and obsesses over joining networks with other luminaries, he implies that this is the only way to be successful in the world. It's worth pointing out — though he almost certainly believes his own gospel — that Allis benefits personally from converting people to his goal-focused networking mania (slide 1,278 invites people to apply to join Hive). This way of thinking is a basic fallacy, which fails to acknowledge all the other ways that people can be successful. At times in the slideshow, he goes so far as to say that his way is the only way to be successful, such as: www.scribd.com Really? The people who are doing the most to improve the world all have their goals framed on their wall? That seems hard to believe. Allis also doesn't acknowledge the role that his own innate qualities played in his success. Let's check his privilege: To start, he is smart and exuberant — I'll give him that much, though I think it's largely something he was born or raised with. Being a white male in America certainly helped. Moreover, he must have been well-connected, given that his uncle Steve Kiely was an early IBM engineer, Stanford Business School graduate, chairman of Stratus Computers, and presumably rich guy (his mom was a social worker and his dad was a minister). In short, it's not likely that following Allis's advice to a t will make you as rich as he is. Still, in an industry perpetuated by bloviation about the perfectibility of man and society, he says all the right things, which is why his 2008 book, "Zero To One Million," was a bestseller and his 1,284-slide presentation is probably getting praised outside of Valleywag and Business Insider. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Fred ProuserMonster Beverage shares are up more than 20% after Coca-Cola announced plans to take a 16.7% stake in the company worth $2.15 billion. Coke said it will a 16.7% equity stake in the company and will have two directors on Monster's board.  Following the announcement Coke shares are up 1.4% after hours.  In exchange, Monster will move its non-energy business to Coke and the company's will enter into expanded distribution agreements. Coke CEO Muhtar Kent said, "Our equity investment in Monster is a capital efficient way to bolster our participation in the fast-growing and attractive global energy drinks category." This deal from Coke comes after the company took a 10% stake in Keurig Green Mountain back in February  Here's the full release from Coca-Cola. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Keith BedfordCommuters make their way on foot through heavy crowds in New York.Tesla is up 73% this year as the Palo Alto-based automaker continues to stoke expectations that they are on their way to becoming a mainstream automaker. Credit Suisse's Dan Galves and Shreyas Patil are not about to get in their way. In a note Thursday announcing they had begun covering the firm with an "outperform" rating, meaning it will outperform a benchmark indicator, the pair say that the fight between electric vehicles and international combustion engines "will not be a fair" one. And Tesla's Model S has already proven it. "We believe that Tesla has already proven that EV’s are inherently better, although most industry observers, and certainly the general public, don’t know it yet," they say. "It’s almost inconceivable that a new automaker’s first offering would be called 'one of the best vehicles in the world' by many reputable auto reviewers, unless the base technology was just better."  The pair proceed to give a point-by-point breakdown of why a Tesla vehicle is superior to your gas guzzler: Perhaps most critically, Galves and Patil calculate that a Model S user will end up spending just $34 a month on fuel costs, compared with up to $175 a month for a mid-size luxury sedan. That translates to between $1,400 and $2,500 a year in fuel cost savings. And while the prices of a Tesla is typically $15,000 more than the average luxury sedan, once Tesla's Gigafactory begins pumping out lithium ion batteries, costs will come down. Meanwhile, the cost of ICE powertrains will rise as a result of stricter fuel economy regs.   The last remaining disadvantage is range. But this too is only a temporary limitation, as Tesla's supercharger network continues to expand.  Galves and Patil say they are already bearish on Ford and GM as companies thanks to structurally sagging U.S. auto demand. Tesla should thus be able to jump into the breach. "If Tesla can get to cost parity with an inherently better product, they will maintain the pricing power they currently enjoy," they conclude. "And the $1,400 - $2,500 / year fuel savings vs ICE’s can drop to margin or be used to drive share. If Tesla can charge a $3k-$4k price premium to ICE’s, that’s 5+ points of margin on a $40k-$80k average vehicle price. It won’t be a fair fight." Credit Suisse has a $325 price target on Tesla. Tesla shares were trading at $261 Thursday.  FREE AppDownload
It's the classic case of billionaire brawling: your 150,000-square-foot vacation mansion is encroaching on mine.  The dispute between billionaires Peter Nygard and Louis Bacon over their adjacent Bahamas mansions is coming to a courthouse in New York City. Bacon, hedge fund billionaire, is suing Canadian clothing magnate Nygard for allegedly engaging in "a long history of character assassination and numerous environmental misdeeds," related to Nygard’s tropical estate, according to The New York Times. Bacon claims Nygard has been "illegally and surreptitiously adding to the size of his compound to the detriment of the local environment," and even allegedly ignoring a government order in 2010 to limit building onto his 150,000-square-foot estate he calls "Nygard Cay." Additionally, Bacon claims the eccentric playboy billionaire has commercialized his property, turning it into a party pad for celebrities. And to add insult to injury, he also says Nygard has been assassinating his character by hiring journalists to write articles that paint Bacon as a "murderer, drug trafficker and a member of the Ku Klux Klan." Meanwhile, Nygard's lawyer says in a statement: "Today’s lawsuit is a continuation of Louis Bacon’s malicious campaign against Peter Nygard with the objective of obtaining Mr. Nygard’s Bahamian property (Nygard Cay), through illegal means, and to wrongfully continue to damage Mr. Nygard’s businesses and reputation." He plans on filing a countersuit.  Welcome to New York, boys.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidJC Penney shares were up as much as 10% after reporting earnings that beat expectations. JC Penney just reported a second quarter loss per share of $0.56, less than the $0.90 per share loss expected by analysts. Same-store sales at the retailer rose 6%, more than the 5.8% that was expected.  Gross margin in the second quarter was 36%, up from 29.6% in the same quarter last year. Inventory was also down 9.7% compared to last year.  The company also reported free cash flow was $76 million, a $1.2 billion improve from last year. Revenue in the second quarter also beat expectations, coming in at $2.8 billion, better than the $2.78 billion that was expected.  In the third quarter, the company expects same-store sales to increase by mid-single digits, and Penney also sees this increase holding for the fiscal-year 2014.  JC Penney CEO Mike Ullman said, "Our turnaround initiatives continue to produce improved financial results. In the second quarter, we gained additional market share while significantly increasing gross margin in a highly competitive promotional environment." The company's same-store sales beat marks the third straight quarter of beats following nine quarters of declines, according to data from Bloomberg. And analysts at Deutsche Bank said ahead of the report that Penney is currently the, "furthest from what former CEO Ron Johnson had envisioned." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ina Fassbender,A man and a person dressed as fox are seen at the Gamescom 2014 fair in Cologne.Stocks gained despite GDP data from Europe that came in below expectations, showing that the economic bloc continues to be mired in sluggish economic growth.  First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories of the day: 1. The weekly report on jobless claims showed claims climbed 21,000 from last week to 311,000. This was more than the 295,000 that had been expected by economists, and this report brings the four-week moving average of claims up slightly to 295,750. Following the report, TD Securities' Millan Mulraine said, "This sharp rise in the level of initial claims is largely noise and is nothing more than a giveback from the surprising weakness in previous weeks — resulting from the lower than expected level of auto retooling shutdown." 2. Overnight, we got second quarter GDP data from the Eurozone, which showed growth in the economic bloc was flat compared to the first quarter. "The poor figure is chiefly driven by downside surprises in Italy, France, and Germany, which all failed to grow in the second quarter," noted Pantheon Macroeconomics' Claus Vistesen. "On an annualized basis, eurozone growth is now running at a disappointing 0.4% in the first half of this year." Following the report, the yield on the German 10-year bond fell below 1% for the first time in history. 3. Retail giant Wal-Mart reported second quarter earnings that missed expectations on comparable store sales that were flat compared to last year. The company also cut its full-year earnings outlook, saying that, "Our guidance includes incremental investments in e-commerce and headwinds from higher healthcare costs in the U.S. than previously estimated." Following the report, BI's Hayley Peterson highlighted the company's major problem: its Supercenter stores.  4. Shares of two fast-casual restaurant chains, Red Robin and Noodles &amp; Co., saw shares sell-off sharply after disappointing earnings reports. Red Robin fell more than 18% after reporting adjusted earnings that came in well below expectations, while profit margins were also leaner compared to last year. Noodles lost 16% after earnings and revenue disappointed, as the company, which made its public debut in June of 2013, said it expects comparable-store sales in 2014 to be flat compared to the prior year.  5. The last two trading days saw stocks rally in what many are calling a "bad news is good news" trade, but in a post that appeared on BI on Thursday, former CEO of PIMCO Mohamed El-Erian wrote that this trend may be coming to an end. "This 'bad news is good news' strategy has worked well given the commitment of central banks to use asset markets as a way of attaining their economic objectives. But there is a limit to how long it can be divorced from the question of the ultimate effectiveness of unconventional policies," El-Erian wrote. "And this issue becomes even more important as the gap between (high) valuations and (sluggish) fundamentals widens." 6. Thursday marks the final day for hedge funds to file their latest 13F filings with the SEC, which give an update on the fund's long-only positions as of June 30. Some of the notable funds reporting their stake during the day on Thursday included Third Point's Dan Loeb, who reported a more than $1 billion stake in auto loan financing company Ally Financial, Leon Cooperman, who reported a new stake of more than 1 million Apple shares, and Chase Coleman's Tiger Global, which sold off its entire stakes in Kate Spade and SodaStream.  7. Oil prices are continuing to plunge, with August contracts for Brent crude oil trading in London falling to levels not seen since July 1, 2013. This fall in crude comes despite continued unrest in Iraq, though earlier this week, the International Energy Agency said Europe oil demand growth would be flat for the next two years. Don't Miss: 17 Facts About Warren Buffett And His Wealth That Will Blow Your Mind » FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTo match Special Report SEC/INVESTIGATIONS(Reuters) - The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said it charged brokerage Linkbrokers Derivatives LLC for taking profits of more than $18 million from customers by secretly manipulating the cost of securities trades processed by the firm. The New York-based firm, which ceased acting as a broker-dealer in April 2013, has agreed to pay $14 million to settle the charges, the SEC said in a statement. The regulator had previously charged four brokers at the firm's cash equities desk. Three of them later agreed to settle those charges for about $4 million. The SEC said on Thursday brokers at the firm defrauded customers by promising very low commission fees, but charging fees that in some cases were more than 1,000 percent greater than represented, the SEC said. (http://1.usa.gov/1rbXBT6) "These brokers hid the true size of the fees they were collecting by misrepresenting the price at which they had bought or sold securities on behalf of their customers," the SEC said. The scheme involved more than 36,000 transactions between 2005 and February 2009, the SEC said. "Linkbrokers employees engaged in a devious and abusive trading scheme orchestrated to steal from the firm's unsuspecting customers," said Daniel Hawke, chief of the SEC Enforcement Division's market abuse unit. "(The) settlement strips Linkbrokers of its remaining assets and allows those funds to be returned to harmed customers," said Hawke. Linkbrokers has settled without admitting or denying wrongdoing and will withdraw its broker-dealer registration, the SEC said.  (Reporting By Neha Dimri in Bangalore; Editing by Saumyadeb Chakrabarty) FREE AppDownload
Business Insider/ Mike NudelmanChase Coleman's Tiger Global Management sold off its entire stakes in Kate Spade and Soda Stream and picked up a new stake in Netflix. The fund also upped its stakes in Zillow and 3D Systems, according to a government filing. Coleman was named 2011's most profitable hedge fund amid volatile markets and economic turmoil, according to Bloomberg Markets Magazine.   FREE AppDownload
Brian Snyder/ReutersPeople on the West Coast still rank Harvard's MBA program above Stanford's. We recently released our fifth annual list of the World's Best Business Schools. For this list, nearly 10,000 readers rated the reputation of the graduates from top business schools around the world.  We included responses only from professionals who said they had experience hiring MBAs at least half the time. We also filtered the data to obtain better geographical balance. We assumed that filtering the responses even further to show answers only from people who said they live on the West Coast of the U.S. might give us a different No. 1, but it turns out that even West Coasters believe that Harvard is the best business school, rather than the close-to-home Stanford Graduate School of Business. The most notable change to the top 10 business schools according to folks out west was that London Business School fell from No. 9 to No. 11. Here are the top 10 business schools as ranked by survey respondents on the West Coast: Business Insider/Survey Monkey FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe logo of US conglomerate General Electric is pictured at the company's site in BelfortBy Anna Ringstrom and Soyoung Kim STOCKHOLM/NEW YORK (Reuters) - World number two home appliances maker Electrolux  said it was in talks to buy General Electric's  household appliances business, seeking to increase its foothold in North America which is growing faster than its other main markets in Europe. GE confirmed it is evaluating strategic options for the home appliances business, including discussions with the Swedish group and other interested parties. New York start-up Quirky, which has partnered with GE to market smart-home products, is another suitor for the GE business and is working with an investment bank to put together a bid, one person familiar with the matter said. "AB Electrolux today confirmed that it is in discussions regarding a possible acquisition of the appliances business of GE. No agreement has been reached," Electrolux, a smaller rival to Whirlpool , said in a statement on Thursday. GE's home appliances business, which sells products under the GE Monogram, GE Cafe and Hotpoint brands, could be worth between $2 billion and $2.5 billion, according to people familiar with the matter, who asked not to be named because they were not authorized to speak with the media. The U.S. diversified conglomerate is trying to sell its home appliances unit as Chief Executive Jeffrey Immelt seeks to allocate resources to higher-growth businesses. The unit is almost exclusively focused on the U.S. market and lacks a global scale, and GE believes it could be more valuable when being part of a global appliances group such as Electrolux, said one person familiar with the divestiture plan. Electrolux, which sells under brands such as Frigidaire, AEG and Zanussi as well as its own name, declined to comment further. Quirky did not immediately respond to requests for comment. After suffering from weak economies and currencies in Europe and Brazil that cost cuts and improvement in the North American market could not offset, Electrolux has seen European demand start to recover this year albeit still lagging North America. In 2013, western Europe accounted for 28 percent of group sales while North America represented 32 percent. Organic growth in North America was 7 percent while in Europe it was 0.4 percent. GE's appliances and lighting division had $8.3 billion in revenues in 2013 out of total industrial revenues of 103.6 billion.  (Reporting by Anna Ringstrom and Mia Shanley in Stockholm and Christine Murray and Soyoung Kim in New York; Editing by Erica Billingham and Chizu Nomiyama) FREE AppDownload
International Mathematical Union2014 Fields Medal Winner Maryam Mirzakhani This is a particularly historic moment, since Mirzakhani is the first woman to win a Fields Medal. Here's what she did to be recognized as one of the greatest young mathematicians in the world. Mirzakhani's research is based on compact Riemann surfaces. These are geometric structures constructed by cleverly stretching, bending, and gluing together parts of the complex number plane: the geometric representation of the complex numbers, made up of sums of real and imaginary numbers. The imaginary numbers are represented as multiples of the square root of -1, written as i. By Volha Baranouskaya, via Wikimedia CommonsThe complex plane. Imagine taking the plane, and rolling it up like a rug along the vertical imaginary axis, so that each point in the grid with a given real part is touching all the points with the same real part, but different integer imaginary parts. 1+i gets "glued" to 1+2i, 1+3i, 1+4i, and so on. After we've rolled up our plane in this way, we end up with a cylindrical tube. Now, we can repeat this process, rolling up our tube along the horizontal axis just as we did above, gluing together points that have the same imaginary part. At the end of this process, we get a torus, or something that looks like a donut: one of our Riemann surfaces. Wikimedia CommonsA torus. A classic result from topology shows that there are only a few options for the overall global structure of surfaces: a sphere, a bunch of donuts glued together, or a bunch of things that look like Mobius strips glued together. These structures can be twisted and stretched in many different kinds of ways. That last group of surfaces, made up of Mobius strips, is extremely peculiar: they don't have well defined "inside" or "outside" areas the way spheres and toruses do, they can't be represented in three-dimensional space without getting jumbled up with themselves, and it's possible to walk all the way around such a surface and come back to your starting point with your left and right sides reversed.  When we take the complex plane or part of the complex plane and stretch and glue it together to make a Riemann surface, we get something that looks like one of those first three types of surfaces: a sphere, a torus, or a bunch of toruses glued together, like the double torus. Oleg Alexandrov/Wikimedia CommonsA double torus, or two donuts glued together. In the most interesting cases, when we're working with a surface that has a broad structure of two or more donuts glued together, these geometries take on a non-Euclidean hyperbolic nature, in which strange things happen. In the usual, flat plane, if you have a line and a point not on that line, there is exactly one line going through the point that is parallel to the original line. In a hyperbolic space, there are infinitely many parallel lines. Triangles on a hyperbolic plane have angles that add up to less than 180°. On a hyperbolic surface, we don't have straight lines, given the curvature of the surface. Instead, geometers consider "geodesics" when working in a non-Euclidian space. Geodesics are the natural analogue of lines: just as a line segment in a plane is the shortest path between two points, a geodesic on a Riemann surface is the curve with the shortest hyperbolic length between two points on the surface. Mirzakhani's doctoral research focused on a counting problem involving a special type of geodesic on Riemann surfaces. Because of the compact closed nature of surfaces, geodesics can sometimes loop around the surface and come back to their starting point, and these are called closed geodesics. Closed geodesics that don't intersect themselves while tracing their path around the surface are called simple closed geodesics. Mathematicians like counting things, and so Mirzakhani's doctoral thesis answered the question "how many simple closed geodesics shorter than some given length can there be on a particular Riemann surface?" Mirzakhani found a formula, based on the given length, that says roughly how many curves of this type can be on a particular surface. What's truly amazing about her research is how she went about finding that formula. As mentioned above, the interesting hyperbolic Riemann surfaces all have a broad global structure that looks like some number of toruses or donuts glued together. It's possible to take two surfaces made out of the same number of donuts and deform by pulling or stretching on one surface to get the other surface, and so these surfaces are in some way related to each other. The number of donuts a surface is made out of is called the genus of the surface. Another thing mathematicians like doing is taking a collection of mathematical structures that are related to each other, like Riemann surfaces of the same genus, and turning that collection into a mathematical structure on its own. If we take all the Riemann surfaces of a particular genus, view those as points, and then define the "distance" between two surfaces to be, very roughly and loosely speaking, based on how much we have to do to stretch one surface to turn it into the other, we get a geometry of sorts on the entire collection of surfaces, called a moduli space. Moduli spaces have extremely complicated and strange geometries, and mathematicians are still far from a full understanding of them. Mirzakhani, however, was able to use that strange geometry to answer her counting question. She showed that certain types of volume measurements in moduli spaces are related to the number of simple closed geodesics on a particular space. What's remarkable about Mirzakhani's work is that she's answering a question about a particular surface by looking at the moduli space of all surfaces. As the International Mathematical Union puts it in their press release on Mirzakhani's award, while the number of these special curves "is a statement about a single, though arbitrary, hyperbolic structure on a surface, Mirzakhani proved it by considering all such structures simultaneously" by looking at the geometry of moduli spaces. Mirzakhani's later and current work goes into the structure of moduli space itself. She has solved similar kinds of counting problems involving geodesics, not on a particular surface, but within the complicated geometry of moduli space itself. Her work also involves various links between geodesics in moduli space and certain problems in the field of dynamical systems, in which mathematicians study how a system evolves in either an orderly or chaotic fashion.  Few mathematicians have been able to directly attack problems within the strange realm of moduli space with the same skill as Mirzakhani, and her Fields Medal testifies to her abilities in this largely unexplored area. For more detail, check out the International Mathematical Union's press release here.  FREE AppDownload
Mike Nudelman/Business InsiderLeon CoopermanLegendary investor Leon Cooperman bought more than 1 million shares of Apple last quarter, and loaded up on shares of grocery chain SUPERVALU, according to Cooperman's latest 13F filing with the SEC.  Cooperman's 1.26 million share stake in Apple is worth about $117.5 million, while his addition to SUPERVALU totaled 5.2 million shares, bringing his total stake to more than 7.8 million shares worth $64 million. Cooperman's filing also showed he took a new 1.08 million share stake in SeaWorld, which on Wednesday fell more than 30% after a terrible earnings report. CNBC's Scott Wapner, however, reported on Twitter that Cooperman's Omega Advisors sold out of SeaWorld "several weeks ago" at around $29 per share. On Thursday afternoon, SeaWorld shares were below $18.  A 13F requires hedge funds to disclose their long positions within 45 days after a quarter ends, and so Thursday's filing represents Cooperman's holdings as of June 30. Among Cooperman's new stakes was a 16.9 million share stake in Gulf Coast Ultra Deep Royalty Trust, which collects royalties on a number of oil wells operated by Freeport-McMoRan. Cooperman also holds a 2.4 million share stake in Freeport-McMoRan worth about $88 million. Cooperman also disclosed a roughly 10 million share stake in Navient Corp, which holds a portfolio of student loans. This stake is worth just under $180 million. Among notable stakes Cooperman sold chunks of was Capital One, of which he offloaded 1.1 million shares worth about $125 million, bringing his holdings in the financial company to just less than half a million shares worth around $40 million. Cooperman also sold 1.1 million shares of Realogy — bringing his holdings in the real estate giant to around 1.5 million shares worth $58 million — and Sprint, of which Cooperman sold 3.4 million shares. Cooperman, however, still holds nearly 40 million shares of Sprint worth $195 million. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA Walgreens logo is seen outside its store in New York CityBy Svea Herbst-Bayliss and Sam Forgione (Reuters) - Top U.S. hedge fund managers did some shopping for shares of discount retailer Dollar General Corp and drug store operator Walgreen Co in the second quarter. Daniel Loeb's Third Point added 1 million shares of Dollar General, raising his stake by 33 percent, while Blue Ridge Capital, founded by Tiger Cub John Griffin, nearly doubled its stake in Walgreen when it bought 2.8 million shares. That translated into 4.57 percent of the fund's portfolio. Walgreen, which purchased a controlling stake in Britain's Alliance Boots, earlier this month decided not to relocate its corporate headquarters to Europe to save on taxes, a strategy known as inversion. It faced complications in pulling off the transaction and heavy political pressure in the United States not to move. Billionaire activist investor Carl Icahn, Family Dollar Stores' largest shareholder with a 9.4 percent stake, wanted the company to sell itself to rival Dollar General in the face of stiff competition from big-box retailers such as Wal-Mart Stores Inc. But in July, Family Dollar agreed to sell itself to Dollar Tree Inc. Meanwhile, botox maker Allergan Inc has waged a full throttle defense to avert a hostile takeover by Valeant Pharmaceutical's. Allergan's biggest shareholder, activist investor William Ackman, has called on other shareholders to side with him and ask Allergan to call a special shareholder meeting. During the second quarter, when Valeant first announced its bid, Allergan's stock price shot higher. Farallon Capital Management, the hedge fund founded by Tom Steyer, opened a new position in Allergan during the second quarter, buying 612,500 shares. Andrew Feldstein's Blue Mountain Capital also opened a new Allergan position, buying 635,925 shares, which made up nearly 2 percent of the portfolio at the end of the second quarter. The quarterly disclosures of manager stock holdings, in what are known as 13F filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, are always intriguing to investors trying to divine a pattern in what savvy traders are selling and buying. But relying on the filings to develop an investment strategy comes with some peril because the disclosures are backward looking and come out 45 days after the end of each quarter. Still, the filings offer a glimpse into what hedge fund managers saw as opportunities to make money on the long side. The filings do not disclose short positions, bets that a stock will fall in price. As a result, the public filings do not always present a complete picture of a manager's stock holdings. The following are some of the hot stocks and sectors in which hedge fund managers either took new positions or exited existing positions in the second quarter.  APPLE INC Philippe Laffont's Coatue Management upped its stake by 9.9 million shares to 10.1 million shares. Blue Ridge Capital sold its stake in, getting rid of 2.2 million shares.  COVIDIEN PLC Covidien is being bought by rival Medtronic in another inversion deal, in which Medtronic wants to move its headquarters to Ireland to take advantage of lower corporate tax rates. Farallon opened a new position buying 2.2 million shares.  DOLLAR GENERAL CORP While Loeb's Third Point increased its stake in Dollar General, Farallon closed out its position, selling 3.2 million shares. Tiger Consumer also liquidated its 814,723-share position, which had made up 2 percent of its portfolio.  DOW CHEMICAL CO Loeb's Third Point, already a big investor in the company, increased his bet dramatically by buying 14.7 million shares, to raise his holdings by 204 percent. The company now ranks as Loeb's biggest U.S. stock holding, at nearly 14 percent of the portfolio.  EBAY INC Barry Rosenstein's Jana Partners cut its stake by 2.9 million shares to 1 million shares.  FACEBOOK INC Putnam Investments raised its holding by 30 percent and bought 1.2 million shares.  GENERAL MOTORS CO Putnam Investments increased its stake in GM by 13 percent when it bought 849,076 shares.  WALGREEN CO Stanley Druckenmiller's Duquesne Family Office held its stake in Walgreen's steady at 1.2 million shares, ranking it as the portfolio's third-largest position. Jana Partners cut its stake by 1 million shares to 11.1 million shares. Third Point added a new position, buying 700,000 shares.  ZYNGA INC Patrick McCormack's Tiger Consumer Management added a new position, having bought 18,062,145 shares.  (Compiled By Jennifer Ablan; Editing by Steve Orlofsky) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Thomas Peter London-traded Brent crude prices were down more than 2.5% Thursday as investors came to grips with more abysmal Europe economic data.  August contracts fell to as low as $102.19, a level not seen since July 1, 2013.  "The petroleum markets have tipped back to the downside, with the Brent market fully refunding Wednesday’s gains, after Euro Zone GDP data was weaker than expected, including a 0.2% decline for Germany in the first contraction since 2012," Citi's Timothy Evans said in a note.  He pointed out that the data predate new Russia sanctions that could yet further weigh on output going forward. Earlier this week, the International Energy Agency said Europe oil demand growth would be flat for the next two years. This chart shows the continent is well below level consumption levels from even the Eurozone crisis of 2011-2012: IEA New York-traded West Texas Intermediate was also down nearly 2%.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFiat Chrysler Chief Executive Sergio Marchionne gives opening remarks during the FCA Investors Day at Chrysler World Headquarters in Auburn HillsBy Agnieszka Flak MILAN (Reuters) - Sergio Marchionne has shown he is determined to let nothing stand in the way of Fiat's merger with Chrysler, but a share price slide may yet force the CEO to hit the brakes on plans to turn the world's No. 7 carmaker into a top player. Fiat bought out Chrysler at the start of 2014 and both operate as one firm. Marchionne now plans to merge them into a single legal entity Fiat Chrysler Automobiles (FCA) to boost the firm's global clout and pave the way for a U.S. listing he says is key to help fund a 48-billion euro ($64 billion) growth plan. However, his plan looks to be on shaky ground. The merger cannot go ahead if too many shareholders who disagree with it take up his formal offer to buy their stock at a set price - a legal requirement triggered by Fiat moving its registered offices from Italy to the Netherlands - and recent events make that a possibility. On top of concerns that Marchionne may be overreaching with his investment plan - to grow net profit five-fold and sales by 60 percent by 2018 - Fiat's recent poor results and weak markets prompted a slide in its shares to their lowest this year and below the 7.727 euro price that Marchionne is offering investors who want to depart when the merger occurs. Should investors holding around 9 percent of eligible shares decide to sell, that would breach a 500 million-euro payout limit that Fiat has set - and throw the merger into doubt. Fiat would have an opportunity to place the tendered stock to other shareholders and later to the public at the same exit price, an unlikely prospect while the market value remains lower. "With the share price where it is today, a delay is a possibility," said Andrea Giuricin, a transport analyst at Milan's Bicocca university. "If there is a delay, it would impact Fiat's plans to lure foreign investors and ease its access to cash. Marchionne's attempts to convince the market to the contrary shows he is getting a bit nervous." Fiat said itself in a July SEC filing that a delay could "negatively affect Fiat's business plans and operations". But as the fall in Fiat shares heightened that risk, so its CEO has downplayed it. "I'm absolutely unfazed by all this," Marchionne said last week. "Even if the merger were not to happen as described... none of our plans presented in May are going to be impacted."  BUMPS AND WORRIES On the approach to the merger Marchionne hit bumps in the road he did not expect: His core North American market is weakening, Italy slid back to recession in the second quarter, and conflicts from the Middle East to Russia have dampened investors' appetite for risk in equity markets. In addition two proxy advisory firms, offering independent voting recommendations as a service to institutional investors, recommended a vote against the merger on the grounds that it decreased investor rights and tightened the grip on the company by the Agnelli family through a loyalty scheme put in place as part of the merger to reward long-term investors. The merger was approved by 84 percent of shares represented at the meeting, but some institutional investors, including Norway's sovereign wealth fund and the People's Bank of China,  voted against, according to the minutes. Neither would comment on the vote. Some individual shareholders expressed their concerns over Fiat moving its registered offices away from Italy, its home for the past 115 years, and also raised worries that the share price would suffer once the stock's primary listing moved to New York. In the end the hold-up may simply be down to a technicality. Against the price Fiat had to set to pay off dissenting investors - the 7.727 euros a share is based on the stock's six-month average - its Thursday closing price of 7.33 euros makes that offer still a generous one. Eligible investors have until Aug. 20 to tell Fiat whether they plan to cash in on their exit rights. The carmaker will announce the number of shares for which exit rights have been exercised in the week of Sept. 1.  WARNINGS If a critical mass of investors breaches the cap Marchionne has set, he has said he will start the merger process again - effectively meaning a delay of several months. However, with the stock's recent fall, a new merger attempt would lead to a lower exit price, making it easier to keep the outlay below the payout cap the second time around. Marchionne has warned that investors would be taking "an enormous risk" by exercising the exit rights, because their shares could be locked up for as long as six months before the outcome is known – and then left in their possession if the cap is breached. Marchionne is counting on the merger and the U.S. listing to help pay for a relaunch of its Alfa Romeo and Maserati brands, export Jeeps globally, and take all three to fast growing Asian markets, where the group is currently weak. That investment plan's targets and timelines look ambitious to even the most optimistic of analysts, most of whom say capital raising of some sort is needed to make it affordable. Fiat had 18.5 billion euros of cash at end-June, but nearly 32 billion in debt. Its financing costs are high and margins are weakening - operating margin stood at 2.7 percent in the first half of this year. It is also valued below its European peers, trading at 2.6 times enterprise value to forecast core earnings (EV/EBITDA) compared to the median of 4.3 times for the sector in Europe. Fiat has ruled out asset sales and a share issue for now, but may go for a mandatory convertible bond. However, Marchionne said any decision on financing would only be taken after FCA was created and with a delay, this would be pushed out as well. A delay to the planned October New York listing could also complicate an already challenging U.S. offensive. Marchionne believes a Wall Street ticker is necessary to set up Fiat as a player able to rival the likes of Germany's Volkswagen and BMW, but after a lukewarm response to last year's U.S. debut of sister company CNH Industrial, he expects it will take time for Fiat to lure U.S. investors. Meanwhile the U.S. car industry growth cycle is about to peak, say analysts. "If they had listed earlier, they would have had a longer runway of growth and in growth times people forget about any company shortcomings," said Sanjeev Varma, managing director at investment bank Teneo Capital. Fiat has repeatedly missed sales targets, seen its European business lose share and plunged into losses during a six-year market slump. But those who have concerns about the company's ability to hit its growth targets also acknowledge that Marchionne has surprised in the past. The carmaker "is embarking on massive investments and will not generate any cash" in the near future, said Bernstein analyst Max Warburton. "But with Fiat, the consensus seems to be that Marchionne was born to fix stuff and will do so. He'd be bored if it was easy." (1 US dollar = 0.7483 euro)  (Additional reporting by Laurence Frost in Paris; Editing by Sophie Walker) FREE AppDownload

REUTERS/Mike Cassese Bill AckmanThe SEC is investigating Bill Ackman and Canadian pharmaceutical company Valeant for their hostile pursuit of Allergan , another pharmaceutical company, according to a report by Dow Jones. Allergan has already filed suit against both Ackman and Valeant for insider trading. It alleges that Ackman and Valeant violated specifically SEC rule 14 e-3, which has to do with making tender offers for companies based on or while knowing material non-public information. SEC will be looking into the same issue, but the investigation — which is civil — is at an early stage and may not lead to enforcement action. Valeant and Ackman announced that they would team up in a "friendly merger" attempt between Valeant and Allergan on April 22nd of this year. At that point, Pershing Square, Ackman's hedge fund, had purchased just under 10% of Allergan 's stock and held it in an LLC called PS Fund 1. PS Fund 1 had completed its purchase of Allergan stock on April 21st, according to Allergen's lawsuit. At issue here is whether or not Ackman and Valeant conspired to make a tender offer for Allergan before the public had knowledge — which is a violation of SEC Rule 14 e-3. Allergan alleges that Ackman and Valeant started talking about the deal as early as February, and knew they would face a hostile takeover — forcing them to make a tender offer for the firm. Valeant is also a member of PS Fund 1, but the two parties signed a document not make a tender offer for Allergan. As Dealbook's Andrew Ross Sorkin pointed out, though, Pearson said on a conference call later: “On April 22, we announced our offer for Allergan. We suspected at the time it would ultimately have to go directly to Allergan shareholders. We were correct.” Valeant and Ackman have had to go directly to Allergan's shareholders because the company itself has fought them every step of the way. It has said that Valeant is a serial acquirer with almost no organic growth that needs to make acquisitions to survive. Once Valeant owns a company, according to Allergan, it slashes its research and development and gobbles up its products, raising their prices until their patents wear out. Allergan isn't the only one saying this either. Famed short-seller Jim Chanos of Kynikos Associates, also believes Valeant is an "accounting rollup" and is shorting the stock. In a statement, Ackman, Pershing Square and Valeant called the lawsuit "frivolous." FREE AppDownload
Noodles & Co.Noodles & Co. CEO Kevin Reddy.Shares of Noodles &amp; Co. are down more than 16% on Thursday after the fast-casual dining chain that serves — you guessed it — noodles, reported earnings and revenue that disappointed.  In the second quarter, Noodles reported adjusted earnings per share of $0.12, missing Wall Street estimates for $0.14, on revenue of $99.5 million which was short of estimates for $106.02 million.  Comparable-restaurant sales in the second quarter were up 0.6% over the prior year, and perhaps most disappointingly, the company said that for the remainder of 2014, comparable-restaurant sales would be flat.  Noodles, which priced its IPO in June 2013 at $18 per share, closed as high as $48.30 in October 2013, but has lost more than half its value since that high point.  The tumble in Noodles also comes alongside a really bad day for Red Robin, which is down 20% after reporting earnings and profit margins that narrowed compared to last year. The drop in shares of Noodles also marks the second high-profile report this week that saw a company that made its public debut last spring fall out of favor with investors.  On Wednesday, SeaWorld shares were absolutely crushed, falling 32% as the theme-park company acknowledged for the first time that bad publicity surrounding the company, including the controversial documentary "Blackfish," is hurting attendance.  SeaWorld, which made its public debut in April 2013, hasn't made a new high since May 2013, and with a further decline of nearly 5% on Thursday, is trading at fresh record lows.  FREE AppDownload
Yuya Shino/ReutersAfter several years of disappointing returns, emerging-market (EM) equities are regaining interest, attracting flows and outperforming their developed-market (DM) counterparts this year. For investors thinking about adding EM exposure, we offer seven factors to consider. Over time, stock returns are driven by earnings growth. At the index level, EM stocks didn’t deliver any earnings growth from 2010 to 2013, so it should come as no surprise that they lagged. This year, however, companies are expected to grow EPS by 9%, followed by 12% growth in 2015, providing a stronger foundation for stock prices. In a year that included Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, renewed unrest in the Middle East, China’s slowing economy, the tapering of the US Federal Reserve’s bond buying, a drought in Brazil and elections in India and Indonesia, EM equities have delivered a respectable 15% return. The lesson: it pays to stay disciplined in the face of headline risks. Over the past decade, passive exposure to EM stocks outperformed passive exposure to DM stocks by about 3% annualized, propelled by EM’s more rapid relative economic growth, a big profitability and earnings growth advantage and a starting point of depressed stock valuations. Those advantages are more muted today, so the return potential from passive exposure to EM stocks is also likely to be more muted in the years ahead. With EM index returns likely facing greater headwinds in the years ahead, we believe that allocations to EM equities will have to work harder to compensate for their far greater volatility. In our view, that means finding ways to generate meaningfully higher returns than the index and/or employing strategies to reduce volatility. In either case, the bar is higher for passive index-tracking approaches than it is for active strategies, which have more room to maneuver. The flow of information about countries and companies is slower and less transparent in developing markets, creating mispricings that resourceful stock pickers can exploit. Well-established factors such as valuation, profitability and price momentum continue to be more productive in driving excess returns in EM than in DM, particularly when combined, as we show in the Display, below. Disciplined approaches that target historically reliable return drivers should continue to be rewarded. AllianceBernstein Amid decelerating EM economic growth and lingering postcrisis uncertainties, investors have been paying bigger and bigger premiums for EM companies with strong current performance, while shunning companies whose earnings growth may come further into the future. The valuation spread between the two has reached an extreme only seen in about 5% of periods over the past 20 years. These junctures have tended to be the most productive times to rebalance to value-investing strategies, even at the expense of some quality. Index trackers risk being overly concentrated in yesterday’s pricier winners. There are also ways to tap EM return potential while diversifying risk. For example, multi-asset strategies can generate equitylike returns with less volatility by broadening the investment opportunity set to encompass select EM bonds. Investors should also consider adding exposure to smaller developing-world markets, many of which are growing quickly, yet remain less correlated than the BRICs and are often riper for stock-picking because of greater information inefficiencies. Ten years from now, we expect markets such as Vietnam, Nigeria, Colombia and Qatar to become more significant constituents in global portfolios. This article originally appeared at The Alliance Bernstein Blog.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA Cisco office sign is pictured in San Diego, California(Reuters) - Network equipment maker Cisco Systems Inc said on Thursday its plan to slash 6,000 jobs will result in restructuring charges of $700 million in cash in the year ending July 2015. The latest round of layoffs, announced on Wednesday, is at least the fourth workforce reduction in about as many years for a company once synonymous with the Internet boom and could spark a shakeup in management, analysts said. Shares in Cisco, still the world's largest networking equipment maker, were down 2.7 percent at $24.52 on the Nasdaq. Cisco has failed to sustain growth in its high-end switches and routers business and is grappling with competition from so-called software-defined networks (SDN) which offer software that can run on cheap hardware. The company will recognize $250 million to $350 million of the charges in the first quarter, it said in a regulatory filing. John Chambers, Cisco's veteran chief executive, blamed the cuts on global uncertainty and said he will use the savings to reinvest in profitable sectors like cloud computing and security. While the company has cut over 17,000 in the past four years, acquisitions have helped its headcount grow to around 74,000 from 71,000 in 2011, according to Cisco's regulatory filings. "He is right-sizing Cisco and trying to get some strategic changes put in place. In the interim he has got to maintain his margins," said Ken Dulaney, analyst at Gartner. The cuts could put pressure on 64-year-old Chambers to retire. The CEO has led the company for nearly 20 years and in 2012 said he would look to retire in two to four years. But Chambers is unlikely to leave before he is ready. According to Dulaney, Cisco's board is loyal to Chambers, who joined the company as senior vice president in 1991 and helped it grow into a $128 billion operation, one of the most valuable tech companies in the world. Still the announcement, which made Cisco the biggest decliner on the S&amp;P 500 on Thursday, could cause a shake up at the company. "A lot of his software investments have not panned out. He has got to get back to his core business and do greater things. That will happen if he gets new management under him," said Dulaney. Cisco is also battling sluggish sales and increased competition in emerging markets. The company's rivals include Juniper Networks Inc and China's Huawei Technologies Co Ltd [HWT.UL]. Cisco said on Wednesday that sales fell 23 percent in China and 13 percent in Brazil in the fourth quarter ended July 26. The company also reported flat profit for the fourth quarter and forecast tepid first-quarter profit and revenue.   (Editing by Simon Jennings and Andrew Hay) FREE AppDownload
On Thursday, shares of Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway hit $200,000 for the first time. This number has doubled since October 2006. Back when Buffett became a majority shareholder in 1964, the stock was only $19. Imagine if you had invested in Buffett back then. We wanted to see what would've happened to a $1,000 investment if we had bet on Berkshire Hathaway in a given year — from 1964 all the way through 2013. The numbers aren't too crazy for recent years. For example, for the year 2004, your $1,000 would have turned into $2,342 by the end of 2013.  But if you had invested in 1964, your $1,000 would be $10.5 million. Buffett is known for his long-term investment strategy. And people who invested in Berkshire Hathaway early on have certainly reaped the benefits of that. Here's what the data looks like: Business Insider/Elena Holodny As you can see, there's a huge difference between the earlier years and the later years. So we also created a log-scale version as well.Business Insider/Elena Holodny And in case you wanted to see the numbers, here's a table of all the data. The left column shows the year (we started from 2013 and worked backward). And the right column shows what your $1,000 would be worth today, given the year you invested it. Business Insider/Elena Holodny Note: we rounded the numbers. Data taken from Yahoo Finance, All Financial Matters, Forbes, and Santa Cruz University.    FREE AppDownload
via Jacob Smith, The CoinsmanAnyone who’s tried to buy or mine bitcoin almost immediately finds out what they’re up against. No matter how many rigs you can afford to invest in, you’ll soon come to the conclusion that you need to join a much larger pool to get tangible dividends. Then there’s this option, which Jacob Smith recently came across in rural China. Smith is the editor of cryptocurrency blog The Coinsman. He’s based in Beijing and dedicates his site to “the ones who believe that Bitcoin is a revolutionary technology 40 years in the making that’s going to disrupt finance and government as we know it”. He graciously let Business Insider grab a piece of his amazing pictorial of his trip. It’s a massive mining operation run by just three guys. For an idea of just how big an operation it is, the power bill alone is in excess of $US60,000 per month. via Jacob Smith, The CoinsmanSmith said after being met at the airport, he was driven an hour into the countryside to a giant warehouse. The first thing you notice, he says, is the noise of tens of thousands of tiny ASIC chips hashing away. “It becomes louder and louder the closer you get to the building, and as you step through the doors it becomes a deafening and steady roar,” he says, then offers this soundbite:  Then comes the wind from giant cooling fans, and despite their efforts, heat. Smith says the inside of the farm still manages to hold “steady at 40° Celsius (105° f) the entire time”. The mining is done by Avalon machines, which quickly date and as such, are unprofitable to run, Smith said. Here’s the result: via Jacob Smith, The CoinsmanAll up, there’s 2500 machines functioning at any one time, churning out 230 billion calculations per second, per unit. The maths is extremely rubbery, as returns are based on many variables including the cost of power, but in Australia, that would generate at least $6,500 a week. Currently, you can buy a rig that returns a single bitcoin every nine days for around $2500. There’s many more – and more sophisticated – giant operations around the world, including this one in Washington, USA, which generates about $US8 million a month.  It’s unlikely the Washington operation can claim the same reduction in overheads as this Chinese farm. Smith met the three employees, whom he said live onsite and get 4 or 5 days a month to go home. via Jacob Smith, The CoinsmanThey have “a couple of bitcoin” each for their efforts (Smith says they’re “heroes that keep our precious bitcoin network safe”). They spend most of their time checking, wiring, installing and rearranging – or playing video games. It’s a crazy amount of work for just three guys. Look at the amount of cabling in this shot alone: via Jacob Smith, The CoinsmanCheck out Smith’s post at The Coinsman for the full story and more pictures. It’s incredible and a stark reminder for anyone getting in late into the game of what they’re up against. Which, according to Smith, is not a bad thing. As he says: “I was struck with a feeling of awe that THIS is what keeps bitcoin alive. That even if someone wanted to bring down bitcoin, they’d have to outdo these guys and the dozens of other operations like this around the world. This really drove home that bitcoin can’t be killed by decree. Make it illegal in one country and people like this will keep hashing away in others.” This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Getty Images/ Larry BusaccaDan Loeb is making a big fat bet on auto sales.  Loeb's Third Point just released its latest 13F filing with the SEC, which revealed a new 45.6 million share stake in Ally Financial, the auto loan financier. According to the filing, this stake is worth $1.09 billion. Other new stakes that Loeb took during the second quarter include cloud company Rackspace Hosting, which Loeb took a more than 7 million share stake in worth $244 million.  The filing also showed that Loeb added nearly 15 million shares, or about $781 million, to his stake in Dow Chemical, which is now up to 22 million shares worth more than $1.1 billion in all. Loeb also sold all 4.5 million shares of his more than $150 million stake in Cabot Oil &amp; Gas.  A 13F requires hedge funds to disclose their long positions within 45-days after a quarter ends, and so Thursday's filing represents Loeb's holdings as of June 30.  The New York Fed on Thursday released its latest household debt and credit report, which showed that auto loan debt grew $30 billion in the second quarter, the highest volume of loan originations since the third quarter of 2006.  The latest data on auto sales showed that sales slowed in July to an annualized pace of 16.5 million vehicles, down from a pace of 16.8 million in June.  In afternoon trade on Thursday, Ally shares were up nearly 3%. FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesWith equity markets continuing to bet that bad economic news is in fact good news – a strategy that has worked very well in this period of hyper-active central banks – investors should also not lose sight of two important qualifications: valuations matter, as does the effectiveness of the ultimate policy-economic handoff. Markets have rightly interpreted this morning’s disappointing growth data out of Europe as implying more dovish policies from the European Central Bank. And with the deeply embedded mantra that central banks are the markets’ best friend (and they certainly have been), European equity markets rallied on the poor economic data, providing a favorable context for the US market open. This “bad news is good news” strategy has worked well given the commitment of central banks to use asset markets as a way of attaining their economic objectives. But there is a limit to how long it can be divorced from the question of the ultimate effectiveness of unconventional policies. And this issue becomes even more important as the gap between (high) valuations and (sluggish) fundamentals widens. The strategy needs to be more than just a market bet on the journey. It also requires that the valuations of risk assets be eventually validated by the policy-induced destination. Yet, rather than converge towards such an outcome, the world is getting further away.   Mohamed A. El-Erian is the former CEO/co-CIO of PIMCO. He is Chief Economic Advisor at Allianz and member of its International Executive Committee, Chair of President Obama’s Global Development Council and author of the NYT/WSJ bestseller “When Markets Collide.” Follow him on twitter @elerianm FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersGeneral Electric Chairman and CEO Immelt chats attends a visit at the gas turbines production unit of the GE plant in BelfortNEW YORK (Reuters) - General Electric Co is in talks with Sweden's Electrolux AB and other parties to sell its household appliances unit, people familiar with the matter said on Thursday. The business sells home appliances under the GE Monogram, GE Cafe and Hotpoint brands and could be worth between $2 billion to $2.5 billion, the people said, asking not to be named because the matter is not public. The U.S. diversified conglomerate is trying to sell its home appliances unit as Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Immelt seeks to allocate resources to higher growth businesses. Bloomberg News earlier reported that GE's appliances unit had drawn interest from Electrolux and consumer development startup Quirky. Representatives for GE and Electrolux did not immediately respond to requests for comment.   (Editing by Tom Brown) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersGeneral Motors CEO Mary Barra appears onstage during a launch event for new Chevrolet cars before the New York Auto Show in New YorkBRASILIA (Reuters) - General Motors Co will invest 6.5 billion reais ($2.8 billion) in Brazil over the next five years, Chief Executive Officer Mary Barra said on Thursday. Speaking to reporters in Brasilia after meeting President Dilma Rousseff, Barra said the new investment will spent on new products, technology and maintaining plants. She said there were some mid-term challenges ahead, but that GM was committed to one of its most important markets. Barra said she also thanked Rousseff for tax incentives for automakers and improved credit conditions in Brazil. Brazil's auto industry, which makes up one-fifth of the country's manufacturing output, has slashed production by 16 percent in the first seven months of the year and laid off thousands of workers. (1 US dollar = 2.2696 Brazilian real)  (Reporting by Carolina Marcello; Writing by Alonso Soto; Editing by Jeffrey Benkoe) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersBerkshire Hathaway CEO Warren Buffett listens to a shareholder at the Berkshire-owned Borsheims jewelry store where Buffett was selling jewelry as part of the company annual meeting weekend in Omaha (Reuters) - Berkshire Hathaway Inc's share price on Thursday crossed $200,000 for the first time, the latest milestone for the company that Warren Buffett built over nearly five decades into what some analysts view as a microcosm of the U.S. economy. Class A shares of Berkshire, which have never been split, rose as high as $201,114, as the Omaha, Nebraska-based company's market value swelled to $327.8 billion, making it the fourth-largest in the benchmark S&amp;P 500 index. Berkshire's share price has doubled since it first crossed the $100,000 barrier on Oct. 5, 2006. The S&amp;P 500 has jumped 44 percent since that date through Wednesday. Buffett, who turns 84 on Aug. 30 and is the world's third-richest person, oversees a conglomerate with more than 80 businesses ranging from Geico car insurance to the BNSF railroad to Dairy Queen ice cream, and more than $119 billion of stocks such as Wells Fargo &amp; Co and Coca-Cola Co. In the second quarter, Berkshire Hathaway posted a record $6.4 billion profit, helped by a stock swap and growing earnings in many businesses, on revenue of $49.76 billion. By some measures, Berkshire remains moderately priced, trading at about 1.4 times its book value, a measure of assets minus liabilities, in the most recent quarter. Buffett has said he will consider buybacks only at or below a 1.2 times multiple. Berkshire also has lower-cost Class B shares, which Buffett launched in 1996 to thwart unit investment trusts purporting to be "clones" of Berkshire but which carried high costs. Those shares now trade at about 1/1,500th of a Class A share and carry voting rights equal to 1/10,000th of a Class A share. Buffett has since 2006 been donating Berkshire shares to several charities, but still owns about one-fifth of the company and controls about one-third of its voting power. His net worth was about $65.3 billion as of Wednesday, Forbes magazine said. (Reporting by Luciana Lopez and Jonathan Stempel in New York; Editing by Bernadette Baum) FREE AppDownload
 Growing up in Lebanon during the country's civil war, Fuad Sawaya lived through a "nightmare," sometimes attending  school in a shelter and learning by candle light. That did not stop him from eventually founding the consumer industry-focused investment bank, Sawaya Segalas. In a recent interview with OneWire CEO Skiddy von Stade, Sawaya recounts his journey from the Middle East to the United States. After he graduated college, the situation in Lebanon left Sawaya with little choice but to continue his education in the U.S. He attended Columbia Business School and fought his way onto Wall Street, landing a job at Paine Webber. Sawaya and his partner, Hercules Segalas, then cofounded their firm in 2001 in New York City on the brink of Sept. 11. Then Sawaya’s wife, who had been an instrumental figure for the first few years at the firm, passed away. Sawaya says that all these experiences informed how he does business and made his firm stronger. "They taught me how to be resilient, [have a] survivor instinct, and always see through challenges and come out ahead on the other side," he said. The year following the passing of Sawaya’s wife was a record year for the firm. He recalls, "The firm rallied together and got closer … and decided that in the memory of [my wife], we’re going to make the firm that much better." Watch more interviews with Wall Street executives, entrepreneurs, and more by subscribing to OneWire’s YouTube Channel. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersExterior of Headquarters of SAC Capital Advisors, L.P. in StamfordNEW YORK (Reuters) - A federal judge narrowed but refused to dismiss lawsuits by former Elan Corp and Wyeth shareholders seeking to recoup losses from billionaire investor Steven A. Cohen and his firm SAC Capital Advisors LP over insider trading in the drugmakers' stocks. In a decision made public on Thursday, U.S. District Judge Victor Marrero in Manhattan dismissed claims for Elan transactions before May 13, 2008 and Wyeth transactions before July 15, 2008, but refused to dismiss other claims. He also rejected motions to dismiss the lawsuit by Mathew Martoma, a former portfolio manager at SAC's CR Intrinsic unit who was later found guilty of insider trading, and Sidney Gilman, a professor who prosecutors said gave Martoma tips. SAC is now called Point72 Asset Management.  (Reporting by Jonathan Stempel in New York; Editing by Meredith Mazzilli) FREE AppDownload
Household debt fell to $11.62 trillion in the second quarter. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York just released its latest Household Debt and Credit report, which showed total house hold debt fell 0.2% from the first quarter to $11.62 trillion from $11.65 trillion. "A slight decline in real estate-related balances, consistent with broader housing market developments, contributed to a flat quarter for total outstanding household debt," said Donghoon Lee, senior economist at the New York Fed. "Meanwhile, we observe continued strength in the auto loan market with the largest volume of originations since 2006." Some of the report's highlights include: Here's a picture of the country's total indebtedness, in chart form: NY Fed/Business Insider FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jessica RinaldiA customer pushes her shopping cart past a display at a Wal-Mart Supercenter in Rogers, Arkansas June 5, 2008. The retail giant's mega stores suffered a .3% same-store sales decline in the second quarter compared with last year. During the same period, foot traffic for Wal-Mart's U.S. stores fell by 1.1%. By comparison, Wal-Mart's smaller-format stores, or Neighborhood Markets, generated same-store sales growth of 5.6% and traffic increased by 4.1%. "I think convenience is where the consumers have been looking, [especially] if you look at the Baby Boomers," Wal-Mart CFO Charles Holley said on a call with reporters Thursday.  The Neighborhood Markets are about one-fifth the size of Wal-Mart's supercenters, and they are located in urban centers — where incomes tend to be higher — while supercenters are typically located on city outskirts.  The Markets are devoted to three of Wal-Mart's strongest categories: groceries, pharmacy, and fuel. Groceries account for 56% of Wal-Mart's sales, and research shows that consumers no longer buy food and beverages at one-stop shops.  "In the 1990s and the beginning years of this century, the greatest threat to supermarkets and grocery stores came from supersized 'one-stop shopping' venues like supercenters and warehouse clubs," the market research firm Packaged Facts wrote in its most recent annual report on emerging grocery trends. "Today the threat is spread out among all retail channels, including drugstores, dollar stores, limited assortment chains, and — the elephant in the room — e-commerce." On average, consumers shop at five different types of stores to fulfill their grocery needs, according to Deloitte's 2013 American Pantry report. Consumers are carrying this shopping behavior over to other product categories, as well. Instead of relying on a single retailer to give them the best value and assortment, "consumers appear more focused on some combination of value and convenience," Goldman Sachs analysts wrote in a recent research note predicting the slow decline of big-box retailers like Wal-Mart and Target. The rise of online retailers like Amazon has made it possible for consumers to shop and compare prices in a few clicks. Now that an increasing number of retailers are offering free and fast shipping, there are even fewer reasons to step foot inside a physical store. In response to these trends, Wal-Mart is rapidly expanding its Neighborhood Market locations. But its fleet of 400 is still too small to offset the lackluster sales at its 3,300 supercenters. That doesn't mean Wal-Mart is going to start shutting down its supercenters, however.  "Supercenters still have one of the highest returns of any [store] format in the company," Holley said. "It would be silly to close a lot of stores with good returns." FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe corporate logo of financial firm Morgan Stanley is pictured on a building in San DiegoNEW YORK (Reuters) - Morgan Stanley and sales assistants in its wealth management branch system who claimed they were owed overtime pay agreed to a $4.2 million settlement. Three client service associates began their federal class action lawsuit in June 2011 on behalf of current and former Morgan Stanley client service associates, alleging violations of the federal Fair Labor Standards Act and New York state labor laws. Client service associates, who are often compensated by both Morgan Stanley and brokers on teams where they work, are classified as non-exempt employees, entitling them to overtime pay if they work more than 40 hours a week. The lawsuit was brought against Morgan Stanley &amp; Co and its brokerage subsidiaries, Morgan Stanley Smith Barney LLC and Morgan Stanley. “Morgan Stanley maintains robust policies to ensure that non-exempt employees are paid for all time worked," a spokeswoman for the firm wrote in an e-mail. "However, with this settlement we will put an end to protracted and expensive litigation that is a distraction from our business.” The lead plaintiffs - Philips Amador, Sylvester Cetina and Joann Sunkett - had earlier dropped claims made under labor laws in Maryland and Illinois. Morgan Stanley is the world's largest brokerage firm as measured by its more than 16,400 financial advisers. Settlement papers filed on Wednesday in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York said about 8,300 client service associates were entitled to overtime pay, but that only 865 nationwide who joined the class action are eligible to make claims. However, any client sales associate who worked in New York state for Morgan Stanley and Morgan Stanley Smith Barney since July 29, 2005 can file. Payments to all claimants will be based on total time employed. The three lead plaintiffs agreed to settlements of $10,000 each in addition to their individual settlement amounts and five others who joined quickly will receive $7,500. Lawyers for the plaintiffs from law firms Klafter Olsen &amp; Lesser in Rye Brook, New York, and Shavitz Law Group in Boca Raton, Florida, are entitled to one-third of the $4.2 million settlement, according to court filings.  (Reporting by Jed Horowitz; Editing by Jonathan Oatis) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersLogo of Deutsche Bank AG is seen in TokyoFRANKFURT (Reuters) - Deutsche Bank, Germany's largest bank, and state-backed lender BayernLB [BAYLB.UL] have agreed to settle an $810 million lawsuit in connection with residential mortgage-backed securities, or RMBS, that Deutsche sold to BayernLB. "We have reached a basic agreement. The final settlement has yet to be agreed," a BayernLB spokesman said in a statement. In the suit, originally filed in a New York court in 2012, BayernLB asserted that Deutsche Bank sold the securities to external clients while secretly criticizing them within the bank and ultimately profiting from their failure. "Deutsche Bank originated, purchased, financed and securitized exceptionally high-risk loans into these RMBS, all while internally disparaging the poor quality of these loans and the RMBS they backed as 'pigs' and 'crap,'" according to the 2012 court filing from BayernLB. Deutsche Bank declined to comment. In a statement dated Aug. 13, a judge for the Supreme Court of the State of New York acknowledged a notice by both banks that they had agreed in principle to settle the case out of court. Big banks have faced numerous lawsuits filed in the United States accusing them of misleading purchasers of mortgage-backed securities and home loans about the quality of the underwriting, and of conflicts of interest that might have tainted the sales. Among those settled are more than a dozen brought in 2011 by the Federal Housing Finance Agency to recoup losses suffered by government-controlled mortgage companies Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.  The FHFA has so far recouped $16.1 billion, or roughly 11 cents per dollar of the underlying securities.  (Reporting by Thomas Atkins and  Kathrin Jones in Frankfurt, Jonathan Stempel in New York; Editing by Arno Schuetze/Mark Heinrich) FREE AppDownload
It seemed like Argentina's best hope for getting out of default — a group of banks willing to buy over $1.3 billion of sovereign debt from the hedge fund creditors that sued The Republic for a decade and won. But the deal, it seems has fallen through. In a statement posted by Reuters, one of the hedge fund creditors, Aurelius Capital, said that the deal being forged by Deutsche Bank, JP Morgan, Citigroup and HSBC and others was simply not good enough to satisfy the group, which has been holding out for a 100 cent on the dollar payment on their investment. "That engagement has convinced us that there is no realistic prospect of a private solution," Aurelius said in a statement. "No proposal we received was remotely acceptable. The entities making such proposals were not prepared to fund more than a small part, if any, of the payments they wanted us to accept. One proposal was withdrawn before we could even respond. And no proposal made by us received a productive response." Aurelius is part of a group of holdout creditors led by Elliott Management founder Paul Singer. They bought Argentine debt after the country's last default in 2001 for pennies on the dollar. When other investors took haircuts on that debt, the holdouts did not. Instead they sued Argentina in a New York Court. The Republic refused to pay them as punishment for the holdouts' refusal to negotiate — the government called them vultures. But the vultures eventually won. Argentina was ordered to pay the along with all of the other bondholders on July 30th. Argentina did not. As a result, the country has been declared in default by the International Swaps Derivatives Association — The ISDA. An auction for the country's credit default swaps has been scheduled for August 21st. On Tuesday, 8,000 Argentines took to the street to protest the Judge who ruled in favor of the holdouts. The Republic insists that it is not in default because it sent money to the bondholders who did restructure (not the holdouts). That money, however, is still sitting in the country's custodial bank, Bank of New York Mellon. The Judge — Judge Thomas Griesa — would not accept any of the funds without all the funds. That makes him a vulture too (per this Argentine propaganda poster). It says "Griesa wants your house, your job and your food." Reuters, Marcos Brindicci An Argentine propaganda poster depicting American Judge Thomas Griesa as a vulture. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe sign outside a Kohl's store is seen in Broomfield, Colorado(Reuters) - Department store chain Kohl's Corp reported a better-than-expected quarterly profit as costs fell, sending its shares up 3.4 percent in premarket trading. The company said selling, general and administrative costs fell about 2 percent to $981 million in the second quarter. Cost of goods sold fell 1 percent. Kohl's, which caters to price-sensitive middle-class shoppers and competes with Macy's Inc, J.C. Penney Co Inc and Nordstrom Inc, said net sales fell 1.1 percent to $4.24 billion. Comparable-store sales fell 1.3 percent as growth in July failed to offset weak sales in May and June. Analysts on average had expected a decline of 0.6 percent, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. Bigger rival Wal-Mart Stores Inc on Thursday cut its full-year profit forecast, citing higher employee healthcare costs and increased investment in its online business. Macy's cut its full-year same-store sales forecast on Wednesday. Kohl's net income rose marginally to $232 million, or $1.13 per share, for the quarter ended August 2, from $231 million, or $1.04 per share, a year earlier. Analysts on average had expected earnings of $1.07 per share on revenue of $4.28 billion. Kohl's shares closed at $55.11 on the New York Stock Exchange on Wednesday.  (Reporting by Shailaja Sharma in Bangalore; Editing by Sriraj Kalluvila) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTo match Special Report SEC/INVESTIGATIONSBy Stuart Gittleman and Suzanne Barlyn (Reuters) - A Boston federal jury took two hours to decide that a local investment adviser had fraudulently lured his former brokerage customers to his new firm, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said late on Wednesday. The SEC's 2010 civil lawsuit against Boston-based Sage Advisory Group LLC and its owner, Benjamin Lee Grant, alleged they had engaged in securities fraud by misleading Grant's former customers at brokerage Wedbush Morgan Securities Inc, to transfer their assets to Sage. The U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts, where the case was decided, will impose sanctions in the coming months. The SEC is seeking civil penalties and other relief, as well as an order that Grant and Sage return profits they received as a result of the fraud. Grant did not immediately respond to a message left at a number for Sage on Thursday morning. Another phone number for Grant was not working. "This case sends an important message to investment advisers that they must put the needs of their clients before their own," Andrew Ceresney, the SEC's enforcement director, said in a statement. SEC-registered advisers must act in client's best interests, or as fiduciaries.  Grant violated that requirement, the SEC said. Grant was a broker for Wedbush until he left in 2005 to launch Sage. His customers' accounts totaled about $100 million in assets, almost all of which were managed by First Wilshire Securities Management, an investment adviser in Pasadena, California. After leaving Wedbush, Grant falsely told his former customers that it was First Wilshire's idea to move their accounts from Wedbush to a discount broker and that he had formed Sage to handle their investments, the SEC said. Representatives for Wedbush and First Wilshire were not immediately available to comment before California business hours on Thursday. Grant also told his customers that charges for their accounts would change from a 1 percent management fee for First Wilshire plus trading commissions for Wedbush to a 2 percent "wrap fee" at Sage. He also falsely told customers that the new fee arrangement was historically less expensive than the prior one. But Grant did not reveal to customers that trading commissions at the discount brokerage were significantly less than at Wedbush, the SEC said. The arrangement ensured that Grant, not his customers, would most likely benefit from the new 2 percent fee. Grant also falsely told customers that First Wilshire was no longer willing to manage their assets at Wedbush and that they had to sign up with Sage to avoid a disruption of services, the SEC said. The plan worked, the SEC said. Nearly all of Grant's Wedbush customers moved to Sage and his compensation doubled from less than $500,000 while at Wedbush to more than $1 million at Sage.  (Editing by Jonathan Oatis) FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Mario AnzuoniStocks are higher in afternoon trade on Thursday. The Dow is up 41 points, the S&amp;P 500 is up 6 points, and the Nasdaq is up 11 points. Markets on Thursday are focused on the disappointing economic data out of Europe overnight.  Second-quarter GDP in the eurozone was flat compared with the first quarter's. Expectations were for the economic bloc's economies to grow 0.1% collectively. Some of the biggest economies in the eurozone, including France and Germany, were among the most disappointing in the report.  In the U.S., weekly initial jobless claims rose 21,000 to 311,000, missing expectations for a reading of 295,000. Retail giant Wal-Mart cut its earnings outlook for the year, and shares of the company are roughly unchanged.  Some of the other major equity movers include fuel cell company Plug Power, up about 5% after reporting revenue that topped expectations.  Shares of burger chain Red Robin are down 20% after the company's earnings per share and margins fell compared to the prior year.  Thursday also marks the deadline for hedge funds to filed their quarterly 13F filings with the SEC, which gives an overview of the company's long positions, and noted activitst investor Dan Loeb revealed that as of June 30 he had taken nearly 46 million share stake in auto loan finance company Ally Financial worth nearly $1.1 billion.  FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's BlogBull markets are fundamentally driven by rising earnings, which are driven by rising revenues. Since more companies are doing more of their business on a global basis, the outlook for revenues depends on the outlook for the global economy. So far, so good: The global economy isn’t booming, but it is growing fast enough to drive revenues and earnings higher. It is likely to continue doing so over the rest of this year and next year too. Let’s first have a close look at the latest developments in the US before turning to the rest of the world: (1) Business sales. US business sales rose 0.3% m/m to a new record high during June. This series tends to be highly correlated with S&amp;P 500 revenues. Business sales--which includes manufacturers’ shipments and distributors’ sales--rose 4.7% y/y during June. S&amp;P 500 revenues grew 5.8% y/y during Q2. (2) Forward revenues. Not surprisingly, there is a good fit between S&amp;P 500 actual quarterly revenues and S&amp;P 500 forward revenues, which is available weekly. The latter has been rising rapidly this year to new record highs and is up 4.2% y/y through the first week of August. That’s because industry analysts’ consensus expectations for 2014 have stopped falling, while 2015 estimates have been rising in recent weeks. They now expect S&amp;P 500 revenues to grow 3.9% this year and 4.2% next year. Dr. Ed's BlogToday's Morning Briefing: Revenues Looking Up. (1) Fundamentally, revenues drive earnings drive stocks. (2) Business sales, forward revenues, PMIs, and federal tax receipts all bullish for corporate revenues. (3) S&amp;P 500 revenues up 5.8% y/y during Q2. (4) Europe is weighing on global revenues. (5) EM MSCI has outperformed since 2006 because revenues outperformed. (6) Latest Chinese indicators upbeat for China and for global economy. (7) Focus on market-weight-rated S&amp;P 500 Retailers. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersSupporters of Argentina's government hold a sign in Buenos AiresBy Hugh Bronstein BUENOS AIRES (Reuters) - The hedge funds suing Argentina over its 2002 debt default are an "international mafia" out to wreck the country's finances, the government said on Thursday, pumping up the rhetoric in a battle that is squeezing the struggling Argentine economy. With its peso currency at record lows, foreign reserves down more than 5 percent over the last year and vast shale oil and gas resources laying undeveloped in its southern Patagonia region, Argentina is desperate to tap foreign financing. But the debt case, which stems from Argentina's default on nearly $100 billion in sovereign bonds 12 years ago, is blocking its access to the international bond market. "Today we are in the hands of an international financial power comprised of small, voracious interests that form a real international mafia," Jorge Capitanich, the Cabinet chief and government spokesman, told reporters in Buenos Aires. Many Argentines side with their government against a group of hedge funds that rejected the country's 2005 and 2010 debt restructurings in which holders received less than 30 cents on the dollar. Holdout funds led by Elliott Management Corp and Aurelius Capital Management bought Argentine bonds at a discount before and after the 2002 default and have pressed their demand for payment of 100 cents on the dollar in the U.S. courts. In 2012, a federal judge in New York awarded them $1.33 billion plus interest and barred Argentina from repaying holders of exchanged debt without paying the holdouts too. The case pushed the country into default again last month, effectively slamming the door on Argentina's hopes of tapping global bond markets. "The world has to say 'enough' to the vultures," Capitanich said. "They are trying to harm the Argentine people and violate our sovereignty." Left-leaning President Cristina Fernandez and her ministers have long disparaged the holdout funds as "vultures" picking at the bones of Argentina's traumatic 2002 default. But the country says a clause in the deal to restructure its debt, set to expire in January, prohibits the government from offering better terms to the holdouts than were offered in the 2005 and 2010 restructurings. With no negotiated solution on the horizon, Argentina's peso weakened more than 1.5 percent on Wednesday to a record low of 13.15 per U.S. dollar in unofficial trading. Foreign exchange controls force most Argentines to buy dollars on the black market, which is widely seen as a truer rate of exchange than the official rate of 8.2750 to the greenback. Local government bonds also fell and reserves stood at $28.967 billion, down 5.33 percent over the last year.  (Additional reporting by Walter Bianchi; Editing by Paul Simao) FREE AppDownload
Jamie McCarthy/Getty ImagesNicky Hilton, younger sister of Paris Hilton, is engaged to her boyfriend James Rothschild. He proposed while the two were vacationing in Lake Como. The Daily Mail reports that the two met at Petra Ecclestone and James Stunt's wedding in Italy in 2011.  Hilton is an heiress to the Hilton Hotel empire and is a great-granddaughter of the founder, Conrad Hilton. This will be Hilton's second marriage. She was previously married to Todd Meister, a hedge fund manager. Rothschild is an heir to the European banking Rothschild dynasty. The family is considered to be a pioneer of international finance and traces back to the original engineer of the family's fortune, Mayer Amschel Rothschild, in the 18th century. Because of the family's wealth and secrecy, it has been targeted by many conspiracy theories. FREE AppDownload
Red Robin on FacebookShares of the burger chain Red Robin were down more than 20% on Thursday after reporting second-quarter profit and sales that missed expectations. Adjusted earnings per share for Q2 came in at $0.68, way below estimates for $0.90. Earnings were down from $0.77 a year ago. Revenue was $256.1 million, missing expectations for $263.37. On a comparable restaurant basis, revenue increased 1.2%. Red Robin also said that restaurant-level operating profit, as a percent of restaurant revenue, declined to 22.2% from 23.3%. The company said "lower margins resulted primarily from higher food and beverage costs and, to a lesser extent, higher other operating costs and occupancy as a percentage of sales." "Although we are satisfied with our top line performance through the first half of the year, we were disappointed that our marketing efforts in the second quarter did not produce the desired results in an intensely competitive environment," said Steve Carley, Red Robin Gourmet Burgers CEO. For the full year, Red Robin expects comparable restaurant revenue to grow by low-single digits.  The disappointing report from Red Robin is the latest in a series of reports from companies highly exposed to consumer spending that have disappointed.  Earlier on Thursday, Wal-Mart reported disappointing earnings and cut its outlook for the the rest of the year. And Wal-Mart's report comes on the heels of Wednesday's July retail sales report that showed sales were flat over June, the worst report in six months.  FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsJust say the name "Rothschild" and you'll open any conversation up to a world of wealth, power, and dynastic conspiracy theories. And there is no doubt — the family pioneered international finance as we know it. This is the story of how the generations that started the dynasty managed such a feat. Mayer Amschel Rothschild, the first of the family to open a bank, was honored by Forbes as the seventh-most influential businessman of all time and the inventor of modern banking who introduced "concepts such as diversification, rapid communication, confidentiality, and high volume." Simply, Mayer understood and was willing to spend money to make money. But it wasn't all that simple. Some elements of the family's history are indeed unsettling enough to pique mass interest. For instance, Mayer's primary manner of hoarding the dynasty's wealth was to institute a policy of keeping friends close ... and family even closer. But, as William Langley notes, one question looms large: How did a down-on-its-luck brood of German street traders emerge, seemingly overnight, to become the prime facilitators of modern capitalism, the wielders of immense political power and, as the historian Niall Ferguson puts it in 'The House of Rothschild,' 'the richest family in all of history'? Here's the answer; the tale of how Mayer and his sons established an international banking dynasty. *Note: This post was first published in December 2012, Lucus Kawa no longer writes for Business Insider. FREE AppDownload
screenshot via Bloomberg.Donald Trump speaking on Bloomberg.Real estate mogul and television personality Donald Trump said on Thursday that Atlantic City, New Jersey, started to unravel only after he stopped investing in the city's casino and hotel industry — at least, that's what "a lot of people" say. "A lot of people say when I left that's when it went bad. In one way I'm honored by that statement. But in another way, I feel badly about Atlantic City," Trump said in a Bloomberg Television interview with Trish Regan. Atlantic City has been rocked by a series of recent casino closure announcements. Earlier this week, Revel, the most expensive hotel and casino in the city's history, revealed it would close in September — affecting thousands of workers' jobs. According to the Associated Press, Revel is just one of four casino closures slated to occur this year in the resort city. But Trump, who is reportedly suing to get his name off two Atlantic City properties he no longer controls, thinks the city's decline wasn't inevitable. "The politicians made many mistakes in Atlantic City. And one of the big mistakes: They built a convention center in the wrong location. I used to fight them years ago," he said. "They decided to do it their way. They built a convention center in the absolute wrong location, the worst. And then they didn't have hotel rooms and it was too small ...  After that happened, I sort of said to myself, 'This is ridiculous.'" Trump nevertheless said he wasn't especially worried that people would blame him for the closures. "I think everyone knows that I’ve gone," he said. "Atlantic City was a place that I really loved." Watch the interview below.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersShipping containers are seen at the Port Newark Container Terminal near New York City as government reported lowest trade gap since 1999WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. import prices fell in July as a decline in the cost of petroleum products offset a rebound in food prices, keeping a lid on imported inflation pressures. The Labor Department said on Thursday import prices decreased 0.2 percent last month after June's unrevised 0.1 percent gain. Economists polled by Reuters had forecast import prices falling 0.3 percent in July. In the 12 months through July, prices increased 0.8 percent. Sluggish global demand is keeping imported inflation subdued, but domestic price pressures are steadily rising. That and a gradually tightening labor market has left some economists anticipating an early interest rate increase from the Federal Reserve. Imported petroleum prices fell 1.2 percent in July, the largest decline since November, after rising 1.1 percent the prior month. Imported food prices increased 1.0 percent. Food prices had declined 1.6 percent in June. Import prices excluding petroleum were flat in July. Imported inflation was also dampened by a 0.8 percent fall in the price of automobiles, the largest drop since December 1992. The Labor Department report also showed export prices were unchanged in July after falling 0.4 percent in June. In the 12 months through July, export prices rose 0.4 percent.  (Reporting by Lucia Mutikani; Editing by Andrea Ricci) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA job seeker meets with a prospective employer at a career fair in New York CityWASHINGTON, (Reuters) - The number of Americans filing new claims for unemployment benefits rose more than expected last week, but will probably do little to change views that the labor market was strengthening. Initial claims for state unemployment benefits increased 21,000 to a seasonally adjusted 311,000 for the week ended Aug. 9, the Labor Department said on Thursday. The prior week's claims were revised to show 1,000 more applications received than previously reported. Economists polled by Reuters had forecast claims rising to only 295,000 last week. Claims are settling down after some volatility in July related to the annual automobile plant shutdowns for retooling. A Labor Department analyst said there were no special factors influencing the state level data. The four-week average of claims, considered a better measure of labor market trends as it irons out week-to-week volatility, rose 2,000 to 295,750, still pointing to firming job market conditions. A significant decline in layoffs, which has pushed claims down to their pre-recession levels, has been the major driver of an improving job market. But hiring is also gaining traction. A report on Tuesday showed hiring rose in June to its highest level since February 2008. The number of job openings that month was the highest since February 2001. The strengthening labor market picture has some economists betting on an early interest rate hike from the Federal Reserve. The U.S. central bank has kept its benchmark interest rate near zero since December 2008 and has shown little sign of being in a hurry to start tightening monetary policy. Fed Chair Janet Yellen argues that there is still slack in the labor market, citing tepid wage growth and a large number of long-term unemployed Americans and those working part-time. The jobless claims report showed the number of people still receiving benefits after an initial week of aid increased 25,000 to 2.54 million in the week ended Aug. 2. The unemployment rate for people receiving jobless benefits was 1.9 percent for the fifth successive week.  (Reporting By Lucia Mutikani; Editing by Andrea Ricci) FREE AppDownload
TBIWeekly initial unemployment insurance claims jumped to 311,000 from 290,000 a week ago. This was a bit worse than the 295,000 expected by economists. "This sharp rise in the level of initial claims is largely noise and is nothing more than a giveback from the surprising weakness in previous weeks — resulting from the lower than expected level of auto retooling shutdown," TD Securities' Millan Mulraine said. "At the turn of this year the trend was nearer 340K, so the decline has been substantial and, as far as we can tell, it is continuing," Pantheon Macroeconomics' Ian Shepherdson said. "Note that the drop in claims is mirrored in the strength of the hiring intentions component of the NFIB survey; taken together, the data suggest that the trend in payroll growth should be 250K or more by the late fall. Next week, claims should dip back to 300K or so." Thursday's report brings the four-week moving average to 295,750, up 2,000 from last week. "The four-week average has risen only slightly from the eight-year low reached last week, and the level of continuing claims remains low," Barclays' Dean Maki said. "Thus, we still would view the claims data as consistent with a labor market that is improving." Continuing claims rose to 2.544 million from 2.519 million last week. "There were no special factors impacting this week's initial claims," the Department of Labor said. Click Here For Live Updates » FREE AppDownload
Plug PowerShares of fuel cell maker Plug Power were up as much as 8% in pre-market trade after the company reported earnings and revenue that topped expectations.  Plug Power reported revenue of $17.3 million, topping expectations for $16.65 million. The company also reported an adjusted net loss per share of $0.04 against expectations for a loss of $0.04.  At quarter-end, Plug Power had cash and cash equivalents of $168.6 million and net working capital of $190.4 million, compared with $5 million and $11.1 million at Dec. 31.  The company reported that it shipped 687 GenDrive fuel cell units during Q2 to customers that included Wal-Mart, Procter &amp; Gamble, and Central Grocers. This compares with 246 units shipped in the prior year period.  In its earnings press release, Plug Power said: The Company has secured GenDrive and GenKey deals with Volkswagen, BMW, Mercedes-Benz and Honda. The Company expects that success within the auto-manufacturing market will open up a plethora of global opportunities as these customers standardize on hydrogen fuel cells to power the electric lift trucks at their manufacturing sites worldwide. Earlier this year, Plug Power — and the broader fuel cell space — was a huge market story, as shares in the sector exploded higher in March before tumbling through the spring.  Year-to-date, however, Plug Power is still on a tear, up more than 275%.  Other fuel cell stocks include Fuel Cell, up 2.5% in pre-market trade, and Ballad Power, also up 2.5% in the pre-market.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA Wal-Mart Stores Inc company distribution center in BentonvilleBy James B. Kelleher (Reuters) - Wal-Mart Stores Inc, which has pledged to buy an additional $250 billion in U.S.-made goods over the next decade, is hitting a snag as it tries to meet that promise: Some vendors keen to participate in the initiative complain that after decades of offshoring it has become impossible to domestically source even commonplace components for their products. So America's largest retailer has invited dozens of small- and midsize manufacturers that aren't necessarily interested in having a direct relationship with Walmart to come to Denver this week for a two-day matchmaking event. The goal? To connect Walmart vendors hungry for key parts with manufacturers that have idle plants - and to put those plants back to work cranking out components, like small electric motors or polyester yarn, that have become hard to find. “We're going to try to match up (vendors) who are looking for component parts with factories that have capacity in the hopes that we can rebuild that supply chain that doesn’t exist anymore," said Michelle Gloeckler, the Walmart senior vice president in charge of the initiative. Critics of the retailing giant are quick to claim that Walmart, which built its empire on low prices, is partially to blame for the sorry state of U.S. manufacturing. Mary Bottari, a former trade analyst for Public Citizen’s Global Trade Watch, says Walmart’s push for cheap goods "has fueled a global race to the bottom in wages and working conditions." And the Economic Policy Institute, a union-friendly think tank, estimates Walmart's trade with China alone has cost the United States 200,000 jobs. Walmart disputes those claims, and spokeswoman Brooke Buchanan says Boston Consulting Group has estimated that the domestic-sourcing initiative will create 1 million jobs in manufacturing and related service jobs.  ZIPPERS AND SNAPS The "Made in USA" program was conceived as a way to help Walmart win back customers who have defected in recent years to even cheaper competitors such as Dollar Tree and Dollar General. So far the effort has failed to stem a five-quarter-long decline in U.S. sales. Walmart says the 18-month-old program is a winner with customers. It hopes the Denver event, which has attracted 100 component part manufacturers as well hundreds of existing and wannabe Walmart vendors, will allow it to rapidly increase the number of U.S.-made products available in its more than 4,200 U.S. stores. But the event is also a tacit acknowledgment that the “Made in USA" pledge is harder than it might have seemed when it was announced last year. Not only are some raw materials and components hard to find, but many of the companies tempted to participate in the domestic-sourcing program are unprepared to do business with Walmart and its storied - but complex - inventory control and logistics system. Walmart's suppliers say difficulties with the program do not invalidate the idea. A number of factors, including rising wages in China, plummeting productivity-adjusted wages at home and a new appreciation for short, responsive supply chains, mean they can compete with Chinese rivals. "By eliminating the ocean freight, what we've done is lower the overall cost of goods. So I can not only beat Chinese prices, I can obliterate them," says Keith Scheffler, president of Creative Things, an Arkansas toymaker that recently shuttered its last Chinese plant. Still, vendors say they are forced to go overseas for such commonplace items as zippers and snaps. Element Electronics, which makes flat-screen TVs for Walmart, has moved incrementally after finding "there was no known existing domestic supply base" when it moved assembly back to the United States, says Chief Executive Officer Mike O'Shaughnessy. The company started simple, focusing on things like packaging materials. Now it is seeking U.S.-made suppliers of plastic and metal parts.  O'Shaughnessy figures three years may pass before domestic suppliers can supply all the parts Elements needs. Supply-chain problems aren't the only challenge Walmart vendors face when they join the "Made in USA" push. The retailer's "Retail Link" system presents vendors with a torrent of real-time sales, inventory and purchase information that they need to learn how to analyze so Walmart can minimize in-store inventories while keeping shelves stocked. It's a difficult balancing act that even sophisticated suppliers like Mel Redman, a former senior Walmart executive who runs Redman and Associates, a toy manufacturer that supplies the retailer, struggle to achieve. “Everything works backwards," he says. "What a vendor needs to learn to do is to work from must-arrive-by date backwards through the production schedule, lead time and lag time. It’s very complicated."  (Editing by David Greising and Douglas Royalty) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange shortly after the market's opening in New YorkBy Ryan Vlastelica NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stock index futures edged higher on Thursday, with investors reluctant to make big bets following a sharp rally in the previous session and amid signs of weak conditions in Europe. Trading is likely to continue being driven by overseas issues, with the latest data out of Europe showing the euro zone's economy ground to a halt in the second quarter. Investors are also monitoring ongoing violence in Iraq, and the conflict between Ukraine and Russia. Wal-Mart Stores Inc reported flat same-store sales for the second-quarter and cut its full-year profit outlook. After falling more than 1 percent in premarket trading, shares of the Dow component rose slightly. Cisco Systems Inc fell 1.3 percent to $24.87 in premarket trading. The company gave a tepid outlook a day earlier for its current quarter and announced massive job cuts even as the Dow component's revenue beat expectations. Wal-Mart and Cisco are the latest major names to issue cautious outlooks. On Wednesday, Macy's Inc cut its full-year same-store sales outlook while Deere &amp; Co cut its profit view. S&amp;P 500 e-mini futures rose 3 points and were above fair value, a formula that evaluates pricing by taking into account interest rates, dividends and time to expiration on the contract. Dow Jones industrial average e-mini futures rose 24 points and Nasdaq 100 e-mini futures added 5.75 points. Wall Street rallied on Wednesday, with the Dow Jones industrial average returning to positive territory for the year. The S&amp;P 500 is about 2.1 percent off a late-July record close. In upcoming U.S. economic data, weekly jobless claims are seen rising by 6,000 to 295,000. The report will be released at 8:30 a.m. EDT, along with import and export prices for July. The chief executive of NewLink Genetics Corp, which licensed an Ebola vaccine developed by Canadian government scientists, late Wednesday told Reuters it has enough doses on hand to launch the first human safety trial of an Ebola vaccine this summer. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration late Wednesday said it had approved a new insomnia drug made by Merck &amp; Co.   (Editing by Bernadette Baum) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Bobby YipA trader walks inside the trading hall during afternoon trading at the Hong Kong Stock Exchange April 10, 2014. Dave Lutz of JonesTrading has the hot topics traders are talking about today: We had a nice bounce in Equity futures a bit ago, as commentary from Putin that he will do his utmost to stop bloodshed in Ukraine + comments from the Finnish PM saying the EU is not considering further sanctions against Russia caused Germany to jump 1% from lows.   Global Volumes remain quite disappointing, despite options expiry in some markets.   Russia’s MICEX is retreating from overnight highs, but the German market remains well bid.   In Asia, Nikkei added 70bp on dovish hopes, while South Korea lost small as the BoK rate cut was well anticipated by markets.   India and Aussie both had a good overnight, as Materials and Consumer stocks fared well.    We need to keep an eye on our Options Expiry in the USA tomorrow – Heavy chatter that we could get “Pinned” at 1950, while it feels the Options dealers are all short Gamma – could provide support in a selloff, or a squeeze if we break sharply upside 1950 (I’m working on getting Gamma positioning this AM)  In Credit - Germany got a quick taste of their 10YY below 1% before it snapped back as Euro-Zone GDP was horrific, with even Germany contracting.    US Credit is basically unchanged into the 30Y auction today, and overnight REPO rates have dropped back toward 3M lows – easing liquidity calls for margined positions.   The DXY is retreating from 10M highs, giving commodities a slight tailwind, but the bulk of the complex is in the red.   Gold is off small despite India inflation dropping and terrible consumption data out of Asia, while the Brent complex remains under pressure, losing 60bp.   We continue to watch the oversold conditions in AG – specifically Wheat as it’s been hit for 6% and is quite oversold with a crowded short base.   Scheduled catalysts today include weekly claims at 8:30, the week’s biggest POMO at 11, and a 30Y auction at 1.   13F filings are due to be submitted by today.. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe Walmart logo is pictured in Los Angeles(Reuters) - Wal-Mart Stores Inc reported a 2.8 percent rise in quarterly sales, helped by higher sales at its smaller-format stores, but U.S. same-store sales failed to show growth again. Wal-Mart also cut its forecast for full-year earnings from continuing operations to $4.90-$5.15 per share from $5.10-$5.45, citing higher employee healthcare costs and increased investment in its online business. Net income attributable to the company rose to $4.09 billion, or $1.26 per share, in the second quarter ended July 31 from $4.07 billion, or $1.24 per share, a year earlier. U.S. same-store sales were flat in the quarter. Total revenue rose to $120.13 billion.  (Reporting by Sruthi Ramakrishnan in Bangalore; Editing by Kirti Pandey) FREE AppDownload
dayofthundr46 / FlickrWal-Mart reported Q2 earnings that were in line with expectations. However, management cut its outlook for full-year profits. As expected, comparable store sales growth went nowhere, climbing 0.0%. The company earned Q2 earnings of $1.21, which was right in line with expectations. However, Wal-Mart sees full-year earnings of $4.90 to $5.15 per share, which is revised down from previous guidance of $5.10 to $5.45. Analysts had been forecasting $5.17. “Our guidance includes incremental investments in e-commerce and headwinds from higher healthcare costs in the U.S. than previously estimated," Wal-Mart CFO Charles Holley said. "This guidance also assumes the effective tax rate will be around 34 percent for the third quarter. The annual effective tax rate is projected to be between 32 and 34 percent. The actual rate will depend on a number of factors, including our performance, discrete items, and pending U.S. Congressional actions regarding the extension of certain tax legislation.” During the period, traffic to Wal-Mart stores fell 1.1%, while the average ticket climbed 1.1%. "I’m really pleased that sales continued to be robust, growing approximately 24 percent this quarter," Wal-Mart Stores president Doug McMillion said. "We saw double-digit e-commerce growth from our four most important markets – the U.S., U.K., China, and Brazil." E-commerce sales added 0.3 percentage points to comparable store sales growth. "As it relates to our challenges in the quarter, we wanted to see stronger comps in Wal-Mart U.S. and Sam’s Club, but both reported flat comp sales," McMillion said. "Stronger sales in the U.S. businesses would’ve also helped our profit performance." Earlier, Wal-Mart competitor Kohl's reported Q2 comparable store sales fell 1.3%, missing expectations for a 0.4% decline. However, earnings came in at $1.13 per share, beating expectations for $1.07. Kohl's share are up 3.4% in pre-market trading. Wal-Mart shares are down by 0.4%. Here are the key slides from management's earnings presentation: Wal-Mart Wal-Mart Walmart FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonA man in Islip, New York, on Wednesday.Good morning! Here's what you need to know: Europe Is A Disaster. The 18-country euro area showed 0.0% GDP growth in Q2, down from +0.2% in Q1 and worse than the +0.1% expected by economists. "On an annualized basis, eurozone growth is now running at a disappointing 0.4% in the first half of this year," said Pantheon Macroeconomics Claus Vistesen. This is a major problem for Europe, where inflation is also slowing, and the U.S., which relies on the region as a source of revenue growth. Prices Are Slowing In Europe. With no growth to support prices, inflation is tumbling. Price growth in the region fell to just 0.4% year-over-year in the region, down from 0.5% in June. Germany Tumbles. Germany contracted by 0.2% in Q2, down from +0.7% in Q1 and worse than the 0.1% decline expected. "The slowdown in the euro area's largest economy is jeopardizing the recovery in the region," warned Bloomberg economists Maxime Sbaihi and Niraj Shah. Germany accounts for about 28% of the eurozone. Yields Hit Record Low. The yield on the German 10-year bond fell below 1% for the first time in history. Low yields in Europe remind us that the current 2.4% yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note is actually relatively high. In other words, those European bonds actually make U.S. bonds look cheap, meaning that yields have room to go lower. Markets Bounce. After spending much of the morning in the red, markets are now rising. U.S. futures are in the green with Dow futures up 30 points and S&amp;P futures are up 3 points. In Europe, Britain's FTSE is up 0.4%, France's CAC 40 is up 0.2%, and Germany's DAX is up 0.3%. In Asia, Japan's Nikkei closed up 0.6% and Hong Kong's Hang Seng closed down 0.3%. Cisco Is Cutting Jobs. Cisco Systems announced quarterly revenue and earnings that beat analysts' expectations. However, guidance was weak. Management expects revenue growth to be flat to up 1%. The big headline out the announcement was that the networking equipment giant said it would cut 6,000 jobs, which represents around 8% of is workforce, this year. Cisco Also Had Bad News About Emerging Markets. Thanks to its global footprint, Cisco is a decent bellwether of economic activity. While demand from the U.S. and Europe seem stable, things don't look good for the emerging markets. "Latin America declined 6% with ongoing pressures in some of the largest countries including a decline of 13% in our business in Brazil," CEO John Chambers said. "Unfortunately as we look out, we don't see emerging markets growth for several quarters. We believe it possibly could get worse." Here Come Initial Jobless Claims. At 8:30 a.m. ET, we'll get the latest weekly tally of initial unemployment insurance claims. Economists estimate claims ticked up to 295,000 from 289,000 a week ago. "Claims appear to have reached a nadir at around 300k, which suggests that an acceleration in hiring will be needed to spur payroll growth," Nomura economists said. Wal-Mart Announces Earnings. Retail behemoth Wal-Mart will reported its Q2 financial results Thursday morning. The company earned $1.21 per share, which was right in line with expectations. U.S. comparable store sales excluding fuel went nowhere. Management also cut full-year guidance. GE Could Be Selling Its Appliances. "General Electric Co.’s home appliance business has drawn interest from Sweden’s Electrolux AB and Quirky Inc., a consumer-product development startup, two people with knowledge of the matter said," reported Bloomberg's David Welch and Richard Clough. "The companies are in talks to buy the century-old unit that GE recently decided to try again to sell as Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Immelt focuses on industrial operations, said the people, who asked not to be identified because details are private. Quirky would team up with private-equity firms to acquire a majority stake, leaving GE with a minority holding, the people said. " FREE AppDownload
There's a lot of ugly data out this morning, but markets just took off. Here's a chart of Germany's DAX index, whipping from red to green. Other markets are doing similar things, including US futures. Bloomberg There are some quotes out there from Putin about how he wants to avoid bloodshed in Eastern Ukraine, and traders are citing these headlines for the move. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Francois LenoirSculptor Juuso Partanen of Finland carves a sculpture near other sculptures based on characters of comic strips at the Brussels Ice Magic Festival December 17, 2013.HELSINKI (Reuters) - Almost half of Finland's companies are being hurt by the sanctions the European Union and Russia have imposed on each other over the Ukraine crisis, a survey by the Chamber of Commerce showed on Thursday. Russia is Finland's third-biggest export market, accounting for about 10 percent of total Finnish sales abroad. Russian tourists spend roughly 2 billion euros annually in Finland. The triple-A rated Nordic country has suffered two years of economic contraction as key industries, mobile phone sand paper, struggled with weak demand. Finland's gross domestic product edged up 0.1 percent in the second quarter from the first three months of the year, preliminary data showed on Thursday, indicating the economy may be out of its technical recession. But the Ukraine crisis has increased fears the recovery will be delayed. In the survey, 6 percent of firms said they were being hit directly by the sanctions, while 41 percent said they see their businesses suffering from the indirect impact of the sanctions. Of those, one quarter say the impact is significant. But half the respondents said the sanctions were justified, while 16 percent would like to see more forceful action. Some 24 percent of managers surveyed did not approve of the sanctions. The European Union has imposed sanctions on Russia over its annexation of Crimea and support for separatist rebels in eastern Ukraine. Russia retaliated by banning EU food imports. "The survey shows that businesses understand the use of sanctions in the current political situation," Risto Penttila, who heads the Chamber of Commerce, said in a statement. Some 79 percent of respondents said they are in wait-and-see mode regarding business in Russia, 3 percent are shelving expansion plans in the country and 0.5 percent will exit the eastern neighbor's markets. The survey of 2,676 managers was conducted on Aug. 8-12. It included both large and small firms. (Reporting by Sakari Suoninen; Editing by Janet Lawrence) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Rick Wilking  Warren Buffett has been incredibly successful, and he's extremely wealthy. Warren Buffett's wealth jumped by around $12.7 billion in 2013 alone. But how much is $12.7 billion anyway? And how good an investor is Warren Buffett really? We've put together some facts that really put him in perspective. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFour thousand U.S. dollars are counted out by a banker counting currency at a bank in Westminster(Reuters) - Mortgage applicants who can't provide tax returns or pay stubs to show their income are getting stated income loans again as companies such as Unity West Lending and Westport Mortgage chase customers they can no longer afford to ignore. Lenders say these aren't the same products as the so-called "liar loans" that were pervasive before the housing bust. Instead, the loans are going to borrowers such as small business owners or investors buying properties they intend to rent who can demonstrate an ability to repay, verifiable through bank or brokerage statements. Lenders said they look for enough assets to pay six to 12 months of payments, while also demanding high down payments to reduce the chance of default. "This is not a return to the wild and wooly days of, if you fogged the mirror, you can have a loan," said Paul Lebowitz, founder of Westport Mortgage. "They have a smarter edge to them now." Some rival lenders said the stated income loans on offer could be abused if borrowers fudge bank statements or don't have enough money to repay the loan. None of the three biggest banks offer them. Sam Gilford, a spokesman for the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, said the agency is concerned, though he wouldn't say whether it is investigating them. The CFPB's rules don't give specific minimums for assets required to demonstrate an ability to repay a mortgage, but critics said a year's worth of payments for a three-decade loan may not be enough. "It's easier to falsify bank statements than income tax returns," said Julia Gordon, director of housing finance and policy at the Center for American progress. To avoid the housing-bust taint, the new stated income loans are being called such things as "alternative documentation loans," "portfolio programs," "alternative-income verification loans" and "asset-based loans." Borrowers usually have to have credit scores of about 700, though some lenders, like San Jose, California.-based Western Bancorp, will accept credit scores as low as 620. Credit scores range from 300 to 850, with 640 seen as the line between prime and subprime. Borrowers typically pay one-half to three-quarters of a percentage point above conventional mortgage rates. Jae Chang, president of Los Angeles-based National Mortgage Service, started offering stated-income loans five months ago. "We are targeting those borrowers who have excellent credit, and a lot of liquid reserves, but who are having difficulties proving their income," he said. National Mortgage Service is doing $15 million worth of stated-income loans a month. Compared to the roughly $1 trillion of U.S. home loans anticipated this year, the stated income mortgage volume at National Mortgage Service is tiny. There is no available data about how widespread stated income mortgages are, and experts said that any growth in these products is off a small base. But the shrinking mortgage market is prompting some lenders to expand their potential pool of customers. The MBA's forecasts for this year's mortgage lending volumes are down 30 percent from 2013 levels. Volumes started falling last year as rising rates cut into demand.   SMALL BUSINESS OWNERS Among the customers that lenders are targeting are small business owners, whose personal income tax returns may not reflect their ability to repay a loan. Many keep income in their business to reduce their personal income tax obligation. Stated income loans are also often geared toward investors, who don't fall under the same rules imposed by the 2010 Dodd-Frank financial reform legislation. Other lenders lowering their standards to win new business include Wells Fargo &amp; Co, the biggest home lender in the United States, which said earlier this year it is willing to make loans to borrowers with credit scores as low as 600, down from a previous limit of 640. The Dodd-Frank law said that, for all owner-occupied mortgages made in the United States, lenders must make sure the borrower has the capacity to repay, or face enforcement from the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau as well as consumer claims in court, where lenders could be liable for up to three years of finance charges and fees. Ability-to-repay rules apply only to mortgages for people who will live in the house. That means there is potential for abuse if borrowers apply for the mortgages saying they'll rent out the property when in fact they intend to live there. Because these kinds of loans are not subject to ability-to-repay rules and require less documentation, borrowers could be talked into taking on mortgages they cannot afford, a lender at a large bank said. The law, and the CFPB'S rules on the matter, will likely prevent lenders from re-embracing the worst varieties of stated income loans during the bubble years, such as so-called "ninja" loans, a near-acronym for "no income, no job or assets." While even ninja loans could easily be securitized before the mortgage bubble burst, packaging non-standard home loans into bonds and selling them to investors is much more difficult now. Most stated income loans today are either held in lenders' portfolios or sold to private investors. (Reporting by Michelle Conlin and Peter Rudegeair. Editing by Dan Wilchins and John Pickering) FREE AppDownload
A slew of ugly data came out Thursday morning. The German economy shrank 0.2%. And the eurozone as a whole didn't grow at all. But there's more than just bad growth going on. Inflation numbers are going in the wrong direction, and there's a growing risk of deflation. Here's the chart of eurozone inflation, via Claus Vistesen of Pantheon Macro. Pantheon The ECB has tried multiple things to turn this around and prevent deflation. It has lowered rates. It has instituted special lending programs and more. And still, nothing is going in the right direction. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA tire rests on the dry bed of Lake Mendocino, a key Mendocino County reservoir, in Ukiah SACRAMENTO Calif. (Reuters) - California Governor Jerry Brown approved on Wednesday a $7.6 billion plan to improve water supplies in the drought-striken state that will be put before voters in November, ending a year of political wrangling over the measure. California is in the throes of a devastating multi-year drought that is expected to cost its economy $2.2 billion in lost crops, jobs and other damages. On the last possible day to approve the ballot measure, Democrats and Republicans fought over what projects to include, with Republicans arguing for more funding for reservoirs and Democrats saying that damming rivers and flooding canyons to build them is damaging to the environment. Last-minute intervention by Brown, a fiscal moderate, brought the sides together. "With this water bond, legislators from both parties have affirmed their faith in California's future," Brown said. Democratic Speaker Toni G. Atkins said late Wednesday that the water bond was "the biggest investment in water storage in decades". Senate Republican leader Bob Huff said the plan, which costs less than the $11 billion bond that the California legislature agreed to in 2009, dedicated nearly 40 percent of funds to water storage. The $11 billion bond was headed for the November ballot if the governor and the state legislators did not come to an agreement. The agreed bond includes $2.7 billion for new storage, including facilities in the Central Valley; $900 million for a groundwater cleanup investment in Los Angeles' San Gabriel Valley; over $250 million in drinking and wastewater treatment projects and statewide investments to tackle drought and climate change, said State Democratic Senator Lois Wolk. "This is a very different bond than the pork-laden one currently on the ballot, which helped some regions of this state, but hurt others," said Wolk. "This bond is good for the Delta and all of California, and it's affordable." The new bond includes $7.12 billion in new debt, plus existing unspent bond funds of $425 million for a total of $7.545 billion. The measure will be Proposition 1 on November's ballot.  (Reporting by Sharon Bernstein and Robin Respaut; Editing by Eric Walsh and Miral Fahmy) FREE AppDownload
@EU_EurostatThe eurozone (EA 18) is going nowhere.Growth in the eurozone has stalled. The 18-country euro area showed 0.0% GDP growth in Q2, down from 0.2% in Q1 and worse than the 0.1% expected by economists. This follows disappointing GDP reports from Germany, which declined by 0.2%, and France, which showed no growth. "The poor figure is chiefly driven by downside surprises in Italy, France, and Germany, which all failed to grow in the second quarter," noted Pantheon Macroeconomics' Claus Vistesen. "On an annualized basis, eurozone growth is now running at a disappointing 0.4% in the first half of this year." This follows disappointing inflation reports, which showed that price growth remain unusually low in the region. "Output levels at mid-year suggest the growth forecasts of the European Central Bank's economists are already overestimating the recovery's pace," Bloomberg economists Maxime Sbaihi and Niraj Shah said. "This adds pressure on the central bank to launch an asset purchase program." Earlier this month, Italy stunned markets by reporting that its GDP unexpectedly fell 0.2% in Q2, falling short of expectations for 0.1% growth. Germany had already published horrific sentiment, industrial production, and factory orders reports over the past two weeks. Yet Thursday's reports managed to miss economists' already lowered expectations. Following the reports, traders and investors moved out of stocks and into bonds, sending Germany's 10-year yield below 1.0% for the first time ever. Here's a breakdown of GDP growth in the region via Eurostat. Eurostat FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersPutin walks down the stairs upon his arrival at Belbek airdrome near the Crimean port of SevastopolThe Kremlin's worst clash with the West since the 1991 collapse of the Soviet Union has accelerated the outflow of two of Russia's most prized assets: money and brains. Vladimir Putin's annexation of Crimea and support for rebels accused of shooting down a passenger plane over Ukraine then hindering the recovery of the 298 bodies have shredded Western hopes of a lasting alliance with Moscow. Sanctioned by the United States and European Union, Putin's courtiers are under fire, Russia's $2 trillion economy is threatened with isolation and millions of Russians across the world are wondering what next. Russia is still earning much-needed revenues from pipelines carrying oil and gas to the West, but, less happily for the Kremlin, capital and talent are flowing in the same direction. Russia's Economy Ministry is forecasting $100 billion in capital outflows for this year, up from $61 billion in 2013, but that looks optimistic. Indeed some think that figure has already been exceeded. "Somewhere between $100 billion and $200 billion of capital flight has taken place," said U.S. President Barack Obama on Aug. 6. European Central Bank President Mario Draghi said back in May that the crisis had prompted "very significant outflows that have been estimated by some to be in the order of 160 billion euro ($214 billion) out of Russia". Even economists from Moscow's Higher School of Economics forecast outflows could total $130-$150 billion this year. And it will get worse, according to a senior Western banker. "Capital outflows will accelerate," he told Reuters on condition of anonymity. "Russian money will go West - to Western Europe, of course, to the main centers - London, Austria, Switzerland." As the money goes out, the flow in the opposite direction has all but dried up. "You're not seeing a lot of investors coming in new to start businesses inside of Russia," said Obama. Putin's actions in Ukraine and the West's response have caused a collective shudder in the boardrooms of New York and London. "If you went into any boardroom right now and said ‘I want to invest a billion (dollars) in Russia’, they would laugh you out of the room," said a senior Western banker who asked not to be named. There could also be a micro-level capital flight going on within Russia itself. Since the chaos that accompanied the collapse of the USSR, Russians have traditionally greeted upheaval by dumping roubles for dollars. A number of Russians told Reuters they were seeking to change roubles into dollars or euros or trying to move money abroad because of fears capital controls could be imposed if outflows accelerated too fast. The true extent of cash savings is unclear to even top central bankers, but tens of billions of dollars are said to be squirreled away under Russian mattresses. Individuals have also been following the cash trail, and not just the high-profile plutocrats in search of soccer club playthings, elite schools and luxury property. The number of Russians emigrating in the last two years was some five times higher than in the two before Putin began a new six-year term in May 2012, official figures show. Russia's statistics service data shows 186,382 moved abroad in 2013 and 122,751 in 2012, compared with 36,774 in 2011 and 33,578 in 2010. The true figures could be far higher, as they may not capture those who leave but remain formally registered in Russia. Anecdotally, there are more to come. "I have seen an increase in queries from Russian high-net-worth individuals, where they’re looking to have a safe haven if things go wrong in Russia," said Supinder Sian, a partner in the labor and employment team at Squire Patton Boggs LLP. So has genealogist Vladimir Paley, who said in July that he has four times more clients now than last year, and they want him to dig up their family history with one goal in mind: making a case to obtain foreign citizenship and leave Russia. "They are people who have already made money and are now scared to lose it," Paley said. "We are losing the most educated, most active, most entrepreneurial people," said Lev Gudkov, director of the independent Moscow-based Levada Centre pollster. (Additional reporting by Alissa de Carbonnel in Moscow; Editing by Will Waterman) FREE AppDownload
@Steen_JakobsenThe yield on the German 10-year bond fell below 1% for the first time in history. This bond rally (yields fall when bond prices rise) occurred shortly after we learned that real GDP contracted by 0.2% in Q2, down from +0.7% in Q1. Economists were forecasting a more modest 0.1% decline. "The German economy hit a wall in the second quarter," Pantheon Macroeconomics' Claus Vistesen said. Low yields in Europe remind us that the current 2.4% yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note is actually relatively high. In other words, those European bonds actually make U.S. bonds look cheap, meaning that yields have room to go lower. "It's really hard for me to identify why rates should go higher," DoubleLine Funds' Jeffrey Gundlach said of U.S. Treasuries. Gundlach said we could see U.S. Treasury yields rise if European yields were to rally. However, he reminded us that wasn't likely to happen anytime soon. Here's a three-year look at the German 10-year yield. Bloomberg.com FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Hugh Gentry Rocky data from Germany and France.European markets are down after dismal data released on Thursday showed that Germany's economy contracted while France showed no growth.  Here's the scorecard: Britain's FTSE 100 is up 0.05%. France's CAC 40 is up 0.18%. Germany's DAX is down 0.37%.  Spain's IBEX is down 0.66%. Italy's FTSE MIB is down 1.13%. Germany's GDP shrank by 0.2% in Q2, which was worse than the 0.1% decline expected. France also undercut forecasts with 0% growth recorded for the second quarter.  A report from Eurostat showed that Eurozone GDP as whole between April and June was unchanged from the first quarter. However, GDP was 0.7% higher compared with the same quarter from 2013.  Asia markets closed mixed with Japan's Nikkei up 0.66% and Hong Kong's Hang Seng down 0.36%. U.S. futures are down with Dow futures down 11 points, Nasdaq  futures down 2.5 points, and S&amp;P futures down .7 points.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Thomas Peter German Chancellor Angela Merkel  BERLIN/PARIS (Reuters) - Germany's economy shrank in the second quarter and France again managed to conjure up no growth, data showed on Thursday, snuffing out any signs of a recovery in the euro zone which is now weighed down by tit-for-tat sanctions with Russia. Europe's largest economy contracted by 0.2 percent on the quarter, undercutting Bundesbank forecasts that it would stagnate, with foreign trade and investment notable weak spots, the Statistics Office said. With so much uncertainty surrounding Russia and Ukraine, a quick rebound is unlikely. France fared little better, flatlining for the second successive quarter. That forced the French government to confront reality, saying it would miss its budget deficit target again this year and cutting its 2014 forecast for 1 percent growth in half. The GDP number for the euro zone as a whole is due at 0900 GMT (5.00 a.m. EDT) and forecast to show anaemic growth of 0.1 percent on the quarter. Given the reports from member states already in, even that is unlikely to be achieved. Data over the past couple of weeks have shown previously beleaguered Spain setting the pace, growing by 0.6 percent, a pace none of its peers are likely to better. Italy, the euro zone's third largest economy, pales in comparison and slid back into recession for the third time since 2008 in the second quarter of the year, shrinking by 0.2 percent and pressuring Prime Minister Matteo Renzi to complete promised structural reforms. Rome and Paris have led a drive to focus EU policy more on jobs and growth rather than cutting debt. Germany and others have shown they will only tolerate that debate up to a point. Bundesbank chief Jens Weidmann said on Wednesday that euro zone monetary policy should not aim to weaken the euro and individual member states should take steps to boost growth, rebuffing French calls for Germany and the European Central Bank to do more. A Reuters poll of economists conducted over the past week gave only a 15 percent chance that the ECB will start printing money this year but put the chances at one-in-three in 2015. "European policies must be refocused by adapting the pace of deficit reduction to the current economic environment," French Finance Minister Michel Sapin wrote in French daily Le Monde. There was no mention of the 2015 goal when France's public deficit is due to come into line with the EU's cap, namely 3 percent of GDP. Sapin said Paris would cut its deficit "at an appropriate pace". The worry for the currency club is that sanctions imposed on Russia over the Ukraine crisis, and Moscow's retaliation in banning most Western food imports, are likely to act as a further drag on growth. Survey evidence for the third quarter suggests hopes for a rebound from a dismal Q2 are now under threat. The ZEW economic sentiment index, released on Wednesday, showed German analyst and investor morale plunged in August to its lowest level in more than 1-1/2 years. "Downside risks heading into Q3 have intensified ... mainly due to the intensification of geopolitical tensions, the outlook for exports to Russia in view of the potential effects of sanctions on Russia on Russian growth and the effect of heightened uncertainty," said Evelyn Herrmann, economist at BNP Paribas. Greece, the crucible of the euro zone debt crisis, is showing some signs of improvement, contracting in the second quarter at its slowest annual pace since late 2008, supporting expectations that Athens will emerge from the six-year slump this year. Athens has also managed to run a bigger primary surplus - before debt interest payments - and will seek some sort of debt relief later this year to put itself on a sustainable path. Finland reported growth of 0.1 percent on the quarter.  (Writing by Mike Peacock; Editing by Mark Trevelyan) FREE AppDownload
 Hello! Here's what people will be chatting about on Thursday.  1. The U.S. said a rescue mission of Yazidi refugees from Mount Sinjar is less likely after a small special forces team dispatched to the mountain found fewer people than expected. The U.S. has been air-dropping food, water, and other supplies to the trapped refugees for the last several days.  2. Israel and Palestine officials agreed on Wednesday to extend a 72-hour ceasefire in Gaza for another five days. Earlier, Israel said a rocket from the Gaza Strip landed in Israel two hours before the original truce was set to expire, although Hamas denies the claim.  3. Pope Francis arrived in South Korea on Thursday to begin a 5-day trip to the country. North Korea fired three projectiles shortly before what marks the first papal visit to South Korea in 25 years. 4. Protests in Ferguson, Missouri, where an unarmed teen was fatally shot by a police officer last week, have intensified in the fifth day with police unleashing tear gas and rubber bullets on demonstrators. Two journalists were also arrested Wednesday, though later released without any charges.  5. Brazilian presidential candidate Eduardo Campos was killed in a plane crash on Wednesday. His private jet crashed in São Paulo amid bad weather.  6. The Canadian scientists behind an experimental Ebola vaccine said they would be able to produce "tens of thousands of vaccine doses" within the next two months, Reuters reported. There is currently no registered drug for the treatment of Ebola. The virus has claimed more than 1,000 lives in West Africa.  7. Cisco announced it will cut 6,000 jobs, or 8% of its workforce. This marks the third major round of layoffs in three years.  8. The Bank of England cut its forecast for wage growth, halving it from 2.5% to 1.25%, after data showed wages are growing more slowly than expected. The bank increased its forecast of economic growth in the U.K. from 3.4% to 3.5%. 9. The Russian-language Twitter account of Russian Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev was hacked early Thursday morning. The first tweet from @MedvedevRussia that raised suspicion read: "Resign. Ashamed of the actions of the government. I'm sorry." 10. A Russian convoy of trucks carrying food, generators, and other aid continues to head toward a region of Ukraine largely controlled by pro-Russian militants. Ukraine officials "say they fear the mission may be a cover for an invasion," the Associated Press said.  And finally.. In unfortunate news, a new study said the biggest fish in the Amazon is on the brink of extinction. The arapaima can weigh more than 400 pounds and grow up to 10 feet in length.   FREE AppDownload
Steve Kovach/Business InsiderA view of Seoul, South Korea, from a helicopter.South Korea's central bank cut interest rates for the first time in 15 months Thursday, under growing government pressure including warnings of recession from the new finance minister. The Bank of Korea (BOK) cut its benchmark overnight inter-bank loan rate by 25 basis points to 2.25 percent. It was the first rate cut since May 2013. The largely-expected move came after the finance ministry last month unveiled a $40 billion stimulus package and revised its 2014 economic growth forecast down from 4.1 percent to 3.7. At the time, Finance Minister Choi Kyung-Hwan warned that the national economy stood at a crossroads between "making a leap forward and falling into a recession". The central bank has autonomy over monetary policy, but is known to have succumbed to government pressure in the past. According to the BOK, the economy posted its slowest growth in more than a year in the second quarter, partly due to sluggish consumer spending following the Sewol ferry tragedy. Gross domestic product rose a seasonally adjusted 0.6 percent in the April-June period from the previous quarter. It was the slowest growth since the first quarter of 2013 and missed market expectations of around 0.7 percent. Year-on-year, Asia's fourth largest economy expanded 3.6 percent, down from the previous quarter's 3.9 percent. "Exports have remained robust, but domestic consumption earlier hit by the Sewol disaster has not improved enough, while spending and investment sentiment also remain sluggish," the central bank said in a statement. "The monetary policy will be operated in ways to support the momentum for growth and ensure that inflation remains within our target range," it said. Despite the latest rate cut, inflationary pressure will remain "not so significant for a while," it added. Inflation has remained below two percent for nearly two years since November 2012 -- far below the central bank's target rate of 2.5 to 3.5 percent. The BOK has forecast an inflation rate of 2.1 percent for this year, following a 1.3 percent increase in 2013, which was the slowest in 14 years. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yuya ShinoA pedestrian looks at an electronic board showing the stock market indices of various countries outside a brokerage in Tokyo August 8, 2014.SYDNEY (Reuters) - Asian shares pushed higher on Thursday after a flood of soft economic data led investors to wager on a ceaseless fountain of stimulus from major central banks, sending bond yields tumbling across the globe. An economic contraction in Japan, a shock fall in Chinese loans, a surprisingly dovish turn by the Bank of England and a sluggish reading on U.S. retail sales all combined to make any tightening in policy seem a very distant prospect. Indeed, investors suspect further action will be needed from the European Central Bank after data showed the German economy shrank by 0.2 percent last quarter, while France failed to grow at all for a second straight quarter. &lt;ECONEUROPE&gt; Yields on Germany's two-year debt &lt;DE2YT=RR&gt; actually went negative, meaning investors were paying for the privilege of lending Berlin money. Barclays forex strategist Aroop Chatterjee said risk-correlated assets had responded positively to the weak data in the U.S., China, the euro area and Japan, but noted: "Euro area inflation remains subdued, which could put pressure on the ECB. "China's growth recovery remains fragile. More forceful policy easing such as interest rate cuts is likely needed for the government to achieve its growth target." The Bank of Korea on Thursday cut its rates by a quarter point to 2.25 percent, the lowest since early November 2010. The shift came after new Finance Minister Choi Kyung-hwan last month launched a series of stimulus measures to prop up faltering growth. The thought of endless largesse helped take the sting out of the disappointing economic news and underpinned equities. Tokyo's Topix &lt;.TOPX&gt; rose 0.66 percent, encouraged in part by hopes for future demand from state pension funds. MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan was up 0.24 percent &lt;.MIAPJ0000PUS&gt;. The Australian market added &lt;.AXJO&gt; 0.6 percent, led by a 2.2 percent gain for local telecoms giant Telstra &lt;TLS.AX&gt; after its earnings beat forecasts and it announced a share buyback. In Europe, financial spreadbetters expected a steady start from the FTSE 100 &lt;.FTSE&gt;, DAX &lt;.GDAXI&gt; and CAC 40 &lt;.FCHI&gt;. On Wall Street the Dow &lt;.DJI&gt; had ended Wednesday 0.55 percent firmer, while the S&amp;P 500 &lt;.SPX&gt; added 0.67 percent and the Nasdaq &lt;.IXIC&gt; 1.02 percent. Brazil was one of the few markets to lose ground as news that presidential candidate Eduardo Campos was killed in a plane crash knocked the Bovespa index &lt;.BVSP&gt; down 1.5 percent. Bond investors were also enticed by the outlook for easy money as subdued U.S. retail sales led markets to again push back the day when the Federal Reserve might first raise rates. Fed fund futures for June next year &lt;0#FF:&gt; closed at their highest in over two months at 99.75, implying a rate of just 0.25 percent. Two-year U.S. Treasury yields dived to their lowest close in nine weeks at 0.4159 percent &lt;US2YT=RR&gt;, rallying from a top of 0.59 percent in just 10 sessions. Across the Atlantic, the Bank of England caused a major surprise by slashing its forecast for wage growth and saying higher rates hinged largely on an improved outlook for pay. On Thursday, a member of the BoE's policy committee, David Miles, said the bank would not be pushed into raising interest rates sharply because the outlook for inflation was subdued. With traders abandoning bets for a near-term hike, yields on two-year gilts &lt;GB2YT=RR&gt; plunged 10 basis points to 0.719 percent, the biggest daily fall since late June 2013. The pound dropped to its lowest in four months around $1.6680 &lt;GBP=D4&gt;. It also plumbed a near seven-week low at 80.20 pence per euro &lt;EURGBP=R&gt; and slid to 170.79 yen &lt;EURJPY=R&gt;. The setback for sterling helped the dollar index &lt;.DXY&gt; firm to 81.656. The euro continued to defy gravity at $1.3351 &lt;EUR=&gt;, even as France's Finance MinisterMichel Sapin urged the ECB to do more to combat deflationary risks and make the currency more competitive. In commodity markets, worries about Chinese demand kept copper down at $6,886 a tonne, after touching a seven-week trough under $6,874 &lt;CMCU3&gt;. Spot gold, in contrast, found support from the outlook for loose monetary policy and edged up to $1,313.54 an ounce &lt;XAU=&gt;. Prices for Brent crude oil &lt;LCOc1&gt; were off 53 cents at $103.75, after hitting a 13-month low of $102.37 a barrel. U.S. crude &lt;CLc1&gt; was down 24 cents at $97.35. (Editing by Shri Navaratnam and Eric Meijer) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersClothes are displayed on hangers in an M&S shop in northwest LondonBy James Davey LONDON (Reuters) - British retailer Marks &amp; Spencer  is close to having both its food and general merchandise divisions "firing on all cylinders" and expects a better Christmas after poor clothing sales hit last holiday season, according to its food business head. While the 130-year-old firm's general merchandise (GM) division - clothing, footwear and homewares - has posted 12 consecutive quarters of declining sales at stores open over a year, its food business has delivered 19 straight quarters of like-for-like sales growth. "This business hasn't had foods and GM firing on all cylinders together for a long time. I think we're very close to having a position where both the food and GM businesses are working positively," Steve Rowe, executive director of food, told Reuters in an interview at the firm's London headquarters. "There's a love affair between M&amp;S and the consumer, and when you upset your lover, sometimes it takes longer than you think it's going to take for them to forgive you," said Rowe, a 25-year M&amp;S veteran. While the food business was continuing to win market share with a strategy to specialize more and focus on quality and innovation, he said there were also "really good positive signs" coming out of womenswear, its biggest clothing segment. "I don't think we'll have a poor Christmas (in GM)," he said. "We all believe it is time to deliver." Under Marc Bolland, CEO since 2010, M&amp;S has posted three straight years of profit decline despite spending 2.4 billion pounds ($4 billion) to address decades of underinvestment. Analysts do, however, expect profit to rise significantly over the next three years. M&amp;S's food business is outperforming the wider British grocery market - which is growing at its slowest rate for over a decade - and contributed over half of total group sales of 10.3 billion pounds in the 2013-14 year. The firm does not split out food's profit contribution, but analysts estimate it generates about 35 percent of UK profit, reflecting lower margins and higher operating costs than in general merchandise.  DIFFERENTIATION M&amp;S, which trades from 809 UK stores, 763 of which sell food, has a strategy that sets it apart from Britain's so called big four grocers - Tesco , Wal-Mart's  Asda, Sainsbury's  and Morrisons  - which are being hurt by the rise of discounters Aldi [ALDIEI.L] and Lidl[LIDUK.UL]. Tesco and Morrisons have both issued profit warnings, while upmarket Waitrose [JLP.UL] has also cautioned that its period of unprecedented investment will affect profits. "The biggest single lump (of trade) is coming from the middle and moving to the discounters, but we're gaining from the middle, and so are Waitrose," said Rowe. M&amp;S, which has 4 percent of the UK food and drink market, has not suffered the same pressure from discounters, because it sells mainly own-label produce, so only 10 percent of its food catalogue is directly comparable with the core product of the big four. Consumer trends of shopping around, buying little and often and wasting less are also playing to M&amp;S strengths, given its estate of 459 Simply Food convenience stores, a large proportion of which carry a much bigger range of products than the smaller convenience stores of the big four. Some 41 percent of M&amp;S's customers "shop for today" - buying produce to consume on the day of purchase. That compares with about 25 percent at the big four. Rowe noted that 67 percent of consumers who shop at M&amp;S also shop at discounters. "People are happily going in to buy some basic items from Aldi and then coming to us for their top-up items," he said. "If you want something special, you don't go to Aldi or Lidl. If you want to make sure your turkey at Christmas is the best, you come to me," said Rowe, pointing out that M&amp;S sells one in four turkeys sold in the UK at Christmas. M&amp;S is also differentiating itself from the competition with its product innovation - about 20 percent of its product range changes every year. On items that M&amp;S cannot differentiate on, such as bananas and cucumbers, it will match the market on price. But in areas where it can differentiate, it competes on quality, not price. Unlike rivals, M&amp;S has not brought down the price of a 2 pint carton of milk to below 1 pound. But, says Rowe, its milk sales have not declined. "Why? Because my milk has more vitamin D and less saturated fat - deliberately." "The race to the bottom helps no one ... You can always make stuff cheaper, but normally it involves removing something. "We pay more money for our beef than other people do. Why? Because I know where it comes from. I know the field it came from. I know who its parents were." The importance of provenance - his own father Joe was an executive director at M&amp;S until 2000 - and pride in product make Rowe more than just a passionate advocate for the firm. He would one day like to lead it, he said. "The best retailer probably in the world, in my opinion, a company I've worked for and loved for 25 years, of course I'd love to," he said. "Who wouldn't?"  (Reporting by James Davey; Editing by Will Waterman) FREE AppDownload
