“Elite status” sounds like what Aziz Ansari’s character Tom Haverford is always after on Parks and Recreation: the finest fabrics, fragrances, and gourmet foods. To an airline and its frequent flyers, however, elite status has a specific meaning: you’ve shown the airline that you’re one of its best customers, and the airline rewards your loyalty with special perks. These elite programs have been around for a long time, but the qualifications and perks change regularly. Nearly all the programs require you to fly 25,000 miles in a year to qualify for the lowest level of elite status; most people don’t travel nearly enough to qualify. Keep in mind that those are actual butt-in-seat miles. The miles you earn with your credit card or through other bonus programs don’t count toward elite status. Once you’re within reach of elite status, though, you face a dilemma. Do you stay loyal to one airline (or its alliance) to achieve or maintain elite status, or shop around for the best ticket prices and itineraries? “Loyalty is exactly that: the willingness to pay more or endure less convenient schedules,” says Scott Mackenzie, a travel expert who blogs at HackMyTrip.com. “However, the idea is that the benefits of loyalty in the form of elite status (upgrades, fee waivers, bonus miles, etc.) provide a net gain,” he adds. So what are those elite status perks, and when are they worth spending an extra $200 for a ticket here and there—money that adds up quickly? Or, worse, taking a brutal eight-hour layover in East Nowheresville airport? This is of particular interest to me because I, quite accidentally, qualified for elite status last year. I write about food and travel, and I love to visit Asia. Although cities like Tokyo and Hong Kong appear to be just on the other side of a big lake from Seattle, they’re actually pretty far away. Two round trips from Seattle took me over 25,000 miles and onto United’s Premier Silver list. I’ve flown a couple of times since then, and here’s what I got: This is all very nice, but it didn’t actually save me any money, and like Mackenzie says, the point is not saving money: it’s getting nice perks for being a loyal (that is, valuable) customer. Higher tiers of elite status get more interesting. You can compare them for all the major airlines at Mackenzie’s site. At the top tier, which requires traveling 75,000 to 100,000 miles (plus other requirements), you’ll fly first or business class on most domestic flights, check three bags for free, and upgrade your friends, too. You can also make last-minute changes to your flights at no charge. (Also, I can’t let this go by: United’s top elite program is called Premier 1K. It’s for people who fly more than 100,000 miles a year. Why isn’t it called 100K? Thank you.) It all sounds great, doesn’t it? Like being George Clooney in Up in the Air, minus the crushing loneliness? Well, it’s probably not worth it. “The lowest tier of elite status is rarely worth the costs of loyalty,” says Mackenzie. “This is not because the benefits are meaningless but because they can more often be obtained through less expensive means.” He’s talking about getting an airline-branded credit card, which offer most of the same benefits as Silver status. Christopher Elliott, former MintLife columnist and author of the new book How to Be the World’s Smartest Traveler, agrees. I asked Elliott whether I should be sure to book my next trip on United (or its Star Alliance partners) in order to maintain my elite status. “The answer to your question is easy: If you have to ask, you probably shouldn’t spend the extra money,” says Elliott. “Only big-spending frequent fliers on an expense account can really benefit in a meaningful way from a loyalty program.” How should I shop for my ticket, then? “Instead, choose the least expensive flight with the most convenient routing,” says Elliott. “If you collect points, make them a byproduct of the purchase, not the reason for the booking.” In other words, use common sense. If you live in a hub city, it might make sense to make an occasional compromise to stick with your hub carrier if you’re close to making elite status. That’s because you’re going to be flying with your hub carrier often, whether you like it or not. Let me be the first to admit: this stuff works. I’ve received nothing of any monetary value from United beyond a ten-cent plastic luggage tag. I haven’t reclined 180 degrees in a first class bed-seat or relaxed with a martini in an airport lounge. Still, the thought of booking a flight on another carrier makes me feel like (a) I’m being disloyal, and (b) I might be missing out on some amazing benefits if I just spend a few more hours and dollars flying the Friendly Skies™. And this is a warning, to me and everyone. Loyalty programs are everywhere. They’re designed to make us change our spending habits to benefit the company offering the program, and often they don’t have to do much more than make us feel special. If the company is really clever, they’ll make us pay to join the loyalty program. Like I said, I love to travel. Maybe someday I’ll hit the big time and earn gold or platinum status. If I do, it’ll be the same way I did last year: by blundering into it. Matthew Amster-Burton is a personal finance columnist at Mint.com. Find him on Twitter @Mint_Mamster. FREE AppDownload
Business school requires a huge investment of time and money. But does it pay off?   For this analysis we considered top-tier schools to be those ranked in the top 10 U.S. programs by any of the following organizations: U.S. News, Bloomberg, or The Economist. Salary and break-even data is based on information collected by Forbes. Produced by Sara Silverstein. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Clinton Steeds/FlickrFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors.  Advisors Should Aim For Maturity-Based Inheritances Instead Of Age-Based Ones (The Wall Street Journal)  Kyle Sanders, a financial consultant with Foresight Financial Management, recommends a maturity-based inheritance, instead of age-based inheritance. In this model the beneficiary has to cross certain milestones, like graduation or get their first real job, before they get access to money. "You can also slowly release access to the inheritance as a way to encourage better decision-making," Sanders writes in the WSJ. "Clients like this concept because it gives the beneficiary access to the assets slowly, giving them time to make wise financial decisions with small amounts of money so that when the rest of their inheritance shows up they're ready for it." Moreover, this gives advisors access to a second generation of clients. "As the children get older, the natural inclination is for adviser to explain some of these provisions to them, leading to the possibility of the children themselves becoming clients one day." Wirehouses Are Trying To Recruit From Banks That Were Once Ignored (Investment News) Wirehouses looking to grow their assets are now seeking out bank advisors, reports Mason Braswell, at Investment News. Since bank advisors typically build their clients through company referrals, clients are less willing to transfer assets when the advisor moves. "Over the years they have had a bad rap because every wirehouse manager has hired a bad bank adviser who only brought over 10% or 20% of assets," Rick Rummage of The Rummage Group said. "The truth is, they shouldn't paint all bank-based advisers with that brush."  Another problem is that many bank advisors frequently work with mass-affluent clients, or those that have less than $250,000 in investible assets. ""I don't know that there's a renewed interest," a Stifel Financial Corp. branch manager told Braswell. "But there's maybe more awareness that some of these guys are good brokers who just happen to be working with a bank." SEC Chair Says Markets Are Not Rigged (Reuters) In Flash Boys, Michael Lewis claimed that markets are rigged. But Mary Jo White, chair of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), told  a U.S. House of Representatives panel on Tuesday that the markets aren't rigged and  that retail investors are not being fleeced, reports Sarah Lynch at Reuters. "I want to be very clear that the market metrics suggest that the retail investor is ... very well-served by the current market structure," White said. Men And Women Have Very Different Views On How To Invest (UBS)  A new report from UBS titled "Do couples really share financial decisions?" finds that men and women have different views when it comes to investing. Men have higher risk tolerance than women. But they also expect different results from investing. "Men are more likely to aim to beat the market or track the market (51% of men vs. 39% of women), while women are more likely to either be happy with a small guaranteed rate of return even if it means underperforming the market (32% of women vs. 28% of men) or focusing on how they are doing toward goals, and not comparing to the market (29% of women vs. 21% of men). Women hold 29% of their assets in cash compared to men, who hold 22%." The study also found that men are more likely to invest any additionally money they get, or hold it for investment. While women are more likely to save their money or use it to pay off a debt. When It Comes To Retirement, $2 Million May Be The New $1 Million (USA Today) It used to be that if you managed to save up a cool $1 million you'd do okay in retirement. But Rodney Brooks at USA Today writes that "the new $1 million may be $2 million." This doesn't mean that people can't afford to live on $1 million, but that with key lifestyle changes, rising medical costs, $1 million doesn't seem like much. "Everything is relative," Clarence Kehoe, executive partner in the accounting firm Anchin, Block &amp; Anchin told Brooks. "For some people, I would think $1 million would be more than enough. For other people, I can tell you some of these clients spend more than $1 million in a year. It depends on the person, their lifestyle, and what they are used to." FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA view shows the Standard & Poor's building in New York's financial districtRatings agency Standard &amp; Poors said it has downgraded 15 European banks, including Barclays, Credit Suisse, and Deutsche Bank after European lawmakers agreed on a framework that prevents governments from having to bail out troubled banks. The European Parliament signed off this month on new laws to make it easier - and less costly for taxpayers - to wind down problem banks, after long wrangling over rules for an industry blamed for triggering the worst economic slump in a generation. S&amp;P said extraordinary government support for these banks would likely diminish as regulators implement the reforms, downgrading them to 'negative' from 'stable. The banks, many of which are systemically important, also included ABN AMRO, Bank Of Ireland and ING Bank. "We observe similar powers coming into force in Liechtenstein and Norway, and already in place in Switzerland, which are not EU members," the ratings agency added. S&amp;P also raised its ratings on Danske Bank  and Argenta Spaarbank, while keeping 'negative' outlooks on 38 banks and 'stable' outlooks on 15 banks. It maintained its CreditWatch rating on five banks, with negative implications. (Reporting by Richa Naidu in Bangalore; Editing by David Gregorio) FREE AppDownload
We've known for a while that wealth and income inequality are getting worse. One of the worrying conclusions from Thomas Piketty's runaway best-selling economic text, "Capital In The Twenty-First Century," is that this could be just the beginning. The key chart to watch is the ratio of capital to income. As this number rises, wealth, which can be inherited, becomes that much more powerful than income, which is somewhat meritocratic. From 1700 until World War I, the capital-to-income ratio hovered near 700% in Europe and near 500% around the world. Then the wealthy took a hit as "wars brought physical destruction of capital, nationalisation, taxation and inflation, while the Great Depression destroyed fortunes through capital losses and bankruptcy," notes The Economist, driving the global capital-to-income ratio below 300%. But following the second world war, the value of capital has been rising. In the next century, this trend will become more extreme as the value of income falls due to slower economic growth and slower demographic growth. All told, Piketty expects the global capital-to-income ratio to approach 700% — as bad as it ever was in Europe and worse than ever in most of the world. "In a way, the United States is becoming like Old Europe, which is very strange in historical perspective," Mr. Piketty told The New York Times. "Absent drastic policy changes, I doubt that income inequality will decline on its own." Here's the chart: piketty.pse.ens.fr/capital21c FREE AppDownload
Traders and investors aren't too pleased with Twitter's Q1 financial results. Despite reporting breakeven earnings and raising guidance, the stock is down by around 9.6%. That brings the share price down to around $38.50. Previously, the all-time low was $38.80. Twitter IPO'd on November 7, 2013. That day, it opened at $45.10 after pricing at $26 the night before. Here's the chart via Yahoo! Finance: Yahoo Finance FREE AppDownload
It feels like almost every day someone asks me what books I recommend reading if they’re trying to learn more about Technical Analysis. I figured I should just make a list and publish it for everyone to see. So here you go:    Technical Analysis of Stock Trends by Robert D. Edwards and John Magee – this is without a doubt the bible of Technical Analysis. It’s a must read for anyone who takes this market seriously.      Technical Analysis of the Financial Markets by John Murphy – for me this is the most easy to read and easy to understand books in the history of technical analysis. I would suggest reading this one first, before getting into Edwards and Magee. But you have to read both.      Japanese Candlestick Charting Techniques by Steve Nison – Everything that you need to know about Japanese Candlesticks, their history and how to use them is in this book. Steve Nison is credited with first bringing these eastern techniques to the western world.      Technical Analysis Using Multiple Timeframes by Brian Shannon – this was the first book on technical analysis that I voluntarily read after completing the CMT program. I think the way he explains how to benefit from using more than just one timeframe is the perfect compliment to all of these other books.      Investment Psychology Explained by Martin Pring – I’ve read this one 3 times. It’s a very interesting book with a lot of cool history. He talks about the tulip and south sea company bubbles. I really enjoyed this one. It’s much more of a beach read than the others.      The Little Book of Stock Market Cycles by Jeffrey Hirsch – One of the most valuable tools we have as technicians is seasonality. Jeff who also writes the annual Stock Traders Almanac, which you also need to buy every year, is the official authority on this subject.      Technically Speaking by Chris Wilkinson – this is basically the technical analysis version of the Market Wizards series by Jack D. Schwager, which I also recommend reading. Wilkinson interviews technicians from the past including guys like Stan Weinstein, John Murphy, Martin Pring and Phil Roth.      Intermarket Analysis: Profiting From Global Market Relationships by John Murphy – I am such a John Murphy disciple. Him and I look at markets in a very similar way. I saw him give a presentation recently and I promise you, had he gotten stuck in traffic, I could have stepped in and done the presentation for him. He has influenced a lot of my work and I recommend reading all of his books. You can also subscribe to his market message on Stockcharts.com – which I’ve been doing since 2005.      Elliott Wave Principle by A.J. Frost and Robert Prechter – This is everything you need to know to start counting waves. The Fibonacci concepts are explained here very well. I really enjoyed this book. Even if you’re not or don’t want to be a hard-core Elliotician (I’m not one), sometimes these waves really stick out and provide incredible risk/reward opportunities. Knowing these principles is a huge advantage.      Technical Analysis For The Trading Professional by Connie Brown – The relative Strength Index (RSI) is something that I incorporate  into my work every single day. This book helps you to think outside the box and explains how to manipulate different oscillators so you get signals that others wouldn’t because they use default settings. This one really gets your mind going in ways that other books simply do not. *** And that’s my list. What do you think? Feel free to add your favorite technical analysis books and explain why in the comment section below so readers can see those as well. FREE AppDownload
Getty / Justin Sullivan eBay CEO John Donahoe eBay announced its Q1 earnings this afternoon.  Here are the numbers: That's a beat for both EPS and revenue, with revenue increasing 14% compared to the same period in 2013. The company's net income was $899 million.  The company's guidance for the next quarter is non-GAAP EPS of between $0.67 and $0.69 and net revenue between $4.32 and $4.42 billion.  The stock is down just over 4% after-hours, likely because the guidance was underwhelming to investors — analysts expected EPS of $0.70.  eBay also said that it plans to move $6 billion of overseas profit back to the U.S. It's been an interesting quarter for eBay, as the company dealt with a very public back-and-forth with activist investor Carl Icahn, who accused several board members, including Marc Andreessen, of not having eBay's best interests in mind, and urging PayPal to spin off as a separate company. The fight ended when eBay agreed to Icahn's suggestion to appoint David Dorman to its board. On eBay's call, CEO John Donahoe said that "despite the potential distractions of our proxy fight, our teams stayed focused and delivered strong results." PayPal's total payment volume grew 27% and it gained 5.8 million new active registered accounts, ending the quarter at 148 million, up 16%.  Here's a chart of eBay's revenues: eBay Here's a chart showing the dollar value of all goods sold over the eBay Marketplace: Business Insider Intelligence  Here's the full release: Global commerce platform and payments leader eBay Inc. (EBAY) today reported that revenue for the first quarter ended March 31, 2014, increased 14% to $4.3 billion, compared to the same period in 2013. Non-GAAP earnings increased 11%, to $899 million or $0.70 per diluted share, over the prior year, driven by strong top line growth. A first quarter GAAP loss of ($2.3) billion or ($1.82) per diluted share, was due to a discrete tax charge of approximately $3.0 billion. The role the company plays in global commerce continued to grow, with total company enabled commerce volume (ECV) increasing 24% in the first quarter to $58 billion. Mobile ECV advanced 70% to $11 billion representing 19% of volume. Mobile downloads since inception exceeded 240 million and attracted 6.5 million new customers in the quarter. Cross-border trade grew 24%, representing $13 billion, or 22%, of total company ECV. “We delivered a strong first quarter, with enabled commerce volume up 24 percent and revenue up 14 percent,” said eBay Inc. President and CEO John Donahoe. “We are committed to delivering sustainable shareholder value and focusing on what matters most to our investors. We are executing our growth plans, capitalizing on the synergies in our portfolio and aggressively executing our $5.0 billion share buyback program. Today, we also announced a non-cash tax charge to facilitate repatriation of $6.0 billion net in foreign earnings, increasing our available U.S. cash and enhancing our financial flexibility." PayPal net total payment volume (TPV) grew 27% with Merchant Services volume up 32% and on-eBay volume up 15%. Revenue grew to $1.8 billion. PayPal gained 5.8 million new active registered accounts to end the quarter at 148 million, up 16%. Global on-eBay penetration increased to 78.9%. PayPal continued to invest in its credit offerings, providing flexibility for consumers and merchants while improving its ability to manage transaction expense and reinvest in the business to accelerate growth. eBay Marketplaces gross merchandise volume (GMV) grew 12%, with the U.S. up 11% and International up 13%. Revenue grew to $2.2 billion. Marketplaces gained 4.7 million new buyers to end the quarter with 145 million active buyers, up 14%. Top rated sellers in the company’s three largest markets grew their same-store-sales 19% and offered free shipping on 53% of transactions across those markets. The selection of items available on Marketplaces grew to over 650 million listings, including both platform and non-platform offerings, reflecting the success of improved selling initiatives, particularly on mobile. eBay Enterprise gross merchandise sales (GMS) grew 16%. Revenue grew to $269 million. Enterprise enabled its clients to grow same-store sales 11%. eBay’s Magento business, which primarily services small to medium-sized businesses, was integrated into eBay Enterprise’s offerings, providing merchants of all sizes a highly flexible end-to-end solution. First Quarter 2014 Financial Highlights (presented in millions, except per share data and percentages)   Other Selected Financial and Operational Results Business Outlook FREE AppDownload
As tempting as it is to wear short-sleeved dress shirts to work during the summer, they are undoubtedly your least fashionable option. Try this classic double-roll technique to keep your shirtsleeves tidy, prevent unraveling, and stay cool. Thanks to our friend Style Girlfriend, who turned us on to this neat trick. By Alana Kakoyiannis.
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidExecutive Floor Governor Patrick Murphy (2nd R) waits for the opening of Oi SA during its debut on the New York Stock Exchange April 29, 2014. Markets rallied today. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
Getty Images/Ethan MillerTwitter's stock fell after hours, as investors were disappointed by Twitter's user numbers.  Here's a look at Twitter's earnings versus expectations:  The stock is down 11% in reaction to the numbers, dragging it to its all-time lows.  Monthly users were lighter than the Street wanted, which killed the stock. On the earnings call, CEO Dick Costolo said he was "really happy" with engagement in Q1. Favorites and retweets were up 26% in the quarter, which is a sign that people are using Twitter more and more. Costolo also said that net new users were just as engaged as older users.  Costolo also tried to convince analysts that despite the small user numbers, Twitter's reach is much bigger. He said that MoPub, Twitter's mobile ad network, reaches 1 billion users across iOS and Android devices.  Costolo also rejected the idea that Twitter is a niche service. He said that there were 3.3 billion views of tweets related to the Oscars. They happened all over the place, on TV, and elsewhere.  He used this as proof that Twitter is a well-known, mainstream service. Now, all Twitter has to do is convince people that there is value in using Twitter on a daily basis.  Costolo's explanations were admirable, but fell short. When the call started, Twitter was down 8-9%. By the end of the call, it was down 10-11%.  Here's a chart looking at Twitter's user growth deceleration, via BI Intelligence: Business Insider This chart is also worrisome: Twitter Revenue&nbsp;- Revenue for the first quarter of 2014 totaled $250 million, an increase of 119% compared to $114 million in the same period last year. FREE AppDownload
Michael Nagle/Getty ImagesEveryone is talking about "Capital in the Twenty-First Century," the deep dive into inequality written by economist Thomas Piketty, using a seemingly endless parade of data from countries all over the world and eras throughout time. It's a massive book, so a lot of the talk is just talk. Hedge fund billionaire Carl Icahn, however, actually read the monster, and his takeaway is different from anyone else's we've heard yet. "I think it's very good, very well thought out. ... And I agree that there are storm clouds ahead," Icahn told Business Insider. In his book, Piketty says that inequality is caused by the fact that capital investments grow much faster than GDP. That means those who invest (the rich) get wealthy much faster than everyone else who doesn't — and then that wealth is compounded. Piketty says that in the 20th century, the domination of capital's growth was interrupted by periods when GDP growth surged, like the post-war years when the world was rebuilding. Other than that, though, there is a constant imbalance which governments and societies must strive to correct. Piketty suggests that this can be done by taxing the rich. Icahn rejects that notion. "Piketty's book basically says this disparity in wealth is going to lead to societal problems ... the solutions, though, they're difficult for Piketty to come up with them. Some of them are kind of naive. We're not suddenly going to start taxing at the level he's talking about." Instead, Icahn sees this book through the lens of someone who wades deep in much of corporate America. To him Piketty's book is a big call for more shareholder activism. "You don't have a true election at the corporate level, so you don't have accountability," he said, adding "You got a lot of Americans who don't understand that they're getting screwed." Take a second to dip into Icahn's mind (if you have the stones), and think of it this way: Until the 1970s companies used to handle defined contribution pension plans for their workers. It made sense that they had a close relationship with the pension funds running the money for these plans (which also included a bunch of company stock) because it was the company taking the risk and putting skin in the game. "With exceptions, the funds that run pension funds are picked by the company themselves," said Icahn. "They play golf together." And that's a problem, because while the entire retirement savings game has changed, the golf games haven't. Now, in many cases, it's the worker who contributes their own money to their pension. Companies are just stewards. The way Icahn sees it, that means it's the worker who is taking the risk, and they should have a say in how the company is run, since through their pensions, they are significant shareholders. "Piketty says capital is getting more share than the worker. The question is who really owns the shares of those companies," Icahn pointed out. The short answer is the worker. But how do you wake people up to the fact that they have capital? You might need a community organizer for that. FREE AppDownload
 REUTERS/Charles PlatiauThomas PikettyAs far as we know, Thomas Piketty is not on Twitter. His book, it turns out, now is. Sort of.  For the past day or so, pikettybot has been spitting out random sentences from "Capitalism in the 21st Century," Piketty's new acclaimed work on income inequality through time and throughout Western nations. The bot is the work of Nathan Rosquist, an MFA student in San Francisco specializing in economics data visualization. He heard about Piketty from a friend, and quickly grasped the inordinate amount of coverage it's been receiving. But he soon began questioning whether it was getting through to the mainstream  — Rosquist admits he barely made it through it himself. He decided a Twitter bot might help address the issue. "It was largely about making it more digestible and making it real for people, instead of this symbolic thing that people have opinions about but nobody’s read." The bot has two parts to what might be called its personality. The first is the 140-characters-or-fewer sentences of the book it tweets out every minute or so. Rosquist used an electronic version of "Capitalism," and Twitter's API, to hunt for text objects that fit this category. The domestic capital of the United States is worth about 450 percent of national income. It is interesting to look at how this ideal affected the dynamics of wealth distribution. In a way, the French Revolution of 1789 was more ambitious. The bot — and, Rosquist says, he himself, — also has a great degree of sympathy for the income inequality Piketty says is likely to worsen.  So the bot has digested the names and data found in the Forbes 400 list and emits periodic tongue-in-cheek "props" to the billionaires and millionaires on it. For example: Let's hear it for Ray Lee Hunt, in Dallas, Texas, who has $5.6 billion (mostly from oil, real estate). #piketty @pikettybot Henry Kravis the founder of KKR that employs 980,000 in companies and creates value for &gt;40m retiree pensions. "I'm trying not to have it be snarky, or outright provocative, or incendiary, or any of these things,"  he said. "I just want it to be curious, like extremely curious, about what’s going on." Rosquist only began the project this week, and he says he'll keep it running until he gets bored. "It feels very alive," he said.  FREE AppDownload
Thoroughbreds are costly and speculative investments. The prices paid reflect the general willingness of horse owners to take risks. As a result, they are a good indicator of the strength of the economy. Sales of the leading thoroughbred horse auctioneer, Keeneland, fell during the recessions of 1990–91, 2001, and 2008–09, and then rebounded as conditions improved. The lingering weakness in thoroughbred sales over the past five years, 2009–2013, as they remained near levels seen 15 years earlier, coincided with a sluggish global growth environment, as can be seen in the similarly weak pace of business spending on new buildings to expand employees and output [Figure 1]. LPL Financial Fortunately, it seems that the risk-taking environment has recently changed and horse sales are bolting out of the gate this year. The median price of two-year-old thoroughbreds in training at this year’s April auction has broken out to a new all-time high of $200,000, up over 30% from last year, suggesting a new environment of risk taking by horse owners may be emerging. Likewise, the environment for investment and risk taking by business leaders appears to be improving. In each of the past several years, the LPL Financial Current Conditions Index (CCI), our index of 10 real- time economic and market conditions, remained in a range of 200 to 250, indicating conditions for steady, but sluggish growth. But just last week, the CCI sprinted to 269—a new post-recession high [Figure 2]. LPL Financial A breakout in economic growth from the steady, but sluggish pace of the past few years is necessary to support stock market valuations that rose in 2013 in anticipation of better growth ahead. While delayed by weather, it appears the race is on, growth may be breaking out, and the winner may be investors. The breakout in the CCI is another sign that the animal spirits of business leaders and investors may be re-emerging, resulting in more investment that may herald better growth. This article originally appeared at LPL Financial.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
The U.S. levied new sanctions on Russian officials and businesses on Monday, and the Obama administration has been pushing the case that its sanctions are taking a toll on the Russian economy. The Treasury Department on Tuesday tweeted out a chart making that case — comparing the Russian economy to other major emerging markets and noting some of the factors that have pushed it to the brink of another recession.  Russia's emerging-market equity performance is down 13.3% year over year, far below Mexico's 5.3% decline. The Russian Ruble, meanwhile, has depreciated 7.7% against the U.S. dollar, another low for major emerging markets. And the change in its 10-year yield has been 171, below such countries as South Africa, India, Hungary, Poland, and Colombia.  Here's the chart: Twitter/@USTreasury The U.S. sanctioned seven more Russian officials and 17 companies involved in the ongoing crisis in Ukraine on Monday, including the country's biggest oil tycoon. U.S. officials stressed the sanctions were working, even if Russian President Vladimir Putin's calculus hadn't immediately changed in response.  "We don't expect there to be an immediate change in Russian policy. What we need to do is to steadily show the Russians that there [is] going to be much more severe economic pain, much more severe political isolation, and frankly, that Russia stands far more to lose continuing these actions over time than pursuing de-escalation," a senior administration official said. "And ultimately, we believe that that can affect Russia’s calculus over time and give them the incentive to deescalate this situation." FREE AppDownload
House Financial ServicesSEC Chair Mary Jo White"The markets are not rigged," said SEC Chair Mary Jo White in a House Financial Services Committee hearing today. There are only so many ways to say that and White likely used all of them as committee member after committee member brought up the claims published in Michael Lewis' latest book, "Flashsboys: A Wall Street Revolt." At this point the book's message should be familiar. Lewis tells the story of a bunch of traders at the Royal Bank of Canada who discovered that high-frequency traders, in collusion with stock exchanges, have gained an unfair advantage in the market to the detriment of everyone else — big and small investors alike. White said that the issue was a top priority at the SEC, but gave no timeline for its investigation. This did not settle the Lewis fans in the room. Congressman Mike Capuano said that the purpose of the SEC was to protect people from "shysters" in the market, and to instill confidence in it. The problem, he said, is that no one has confidence that the SEC can even do that job. "If we don't believe it," he said, "it doesn't exist." After Capuano's questioning, White said that the SEC recognized that Regulation National Market System (Reg NMS), a 2007 regulation that was supposed to bring stock trading into the future, may have resulted in unintended consequences. That's really the messy world that White says her agency "could not be doing a more extensive review" of. Some Congressmen had a looser grasp on the specifics of the issue, but had no problem making their discomfort known. Take Massachusetts' *Stephen Lynch for instance. "Virtual financial said in 5 years they had one day of trading losses," Lynch said incredulously, "...there seems to be a definite advantage for a firm that can operate for 5 years without any trading losses." He meant Virtu, the high-frequency trading firm that has delayed its IPO indefinitely because of the fallout from Lewis' book. "... [T]hese HFT are holding positions in a matter of seconds," Lynch continued. Actually, they're holding them for tiny fractions of a second. According to the SEC itself, 38% of all cancelled quotes exist 50 milliseconds or less. So when Warren Buffett gets on CNBC, like he did this morning, and says the investing game hasn't changed, that simply isn't true for everyone in the market. Some people are playing something entirely different. The problem is that this new game unintentionally created by Reg NMS is hard to put your finger on. In the middle of the hearing, Michigan's Bill Huizenga (R) announced that his 13 year-old daughter was in the room.  He apologized for the density of the topic. "Most people here don't understand what we're talking about either," he said. *This article has been corrected to reflect that it was Congressman Stephen Lynch, not Congressman Ed Perlmutter who made the comments. FREE AppDownload
Everything's bigger in Texas. There's large oil production and cattle production. Texas is home to three of the top 25 overweight cities in the U.S. We compiled these maps to show there's more to the Lone Star state, but we do agree, everything is bigger in Texas. Produced by Sam Rega. Follow BI Video: On Twitter  
The National Weather Service has issued a Flood Watch for New York, effective Wednesday afternoon through Thursday morning. The storm could make Wednesday rush hour a mess, with 1 to 2 inches of rain expected by the time, the weather service said in an alert. Low-lying and poor draining areas are at particular risk of flooding. Three to 4 inches of rain is forecast to fall by Thursday morning, with the heaviest rain expected Wednesday night. Here's the latest forecast map for New York City and the surrounding areas, updated Tuesday, April 29, at 12:59 p.m: NWS FREE AppDownload
Anyone interested in income disparity in America has been talking about French economist Thomas Piketty's "Capitalism in the 21st Century," a 700-page book covering 200 years of economic history. So it's not surprising to learn that Amazon has temporarily run out of copies. Amazon FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidToday is the last day to enter an investment idea contest at one of the biggest hedge fund events of the year. Entries for the Sohn Investment Idea Contest are due by 5 p.m. today.  The judges include Michael Price, Bill Ackman, David Einhorn, Joel Greenblatt and Seth Klarman. If you win, you get to present your idea before an audience of 3,000 in the buy-side community at the Sohn Conference on May 5th in New York City. Not to mention, some of the biggest money managers will be there including, Ackman, Einhorn, Jeffrey Gundlach, Paul Tudor Jones, Philippe Laffont, Michael Novogratz, Larry Robbins and Chris Shumway. To enter the contest, your investment idea must be a publicly traded security with a market cap of $1 billion or greater. The contest is sponsored by Bloomberg Radio and GLG. Bloomberg has partnered with the Sohn Conference this year. For more information about the contest and to enter visit sohnconference.org/contest. FREE AppDownload
Julia La Roche for Business InsiderFormer Florida Governor Jeb Bush giving the keynote address.Hundreds of Wall Streeters gathered at Cipriani in Midtown Manhattan last night to raise funds for Success Academy Charter Schools — the charter school network that's been battling with Mayor Bill de Blasio. Former Florida Governor Jeb Bush gave the keynote address and former CNN journalist Campbell Brown was honored. Big-name finance folks we spotted at the gala include John Paulson, Jimmy Lee, Boaz Weinstein, Kyle Bass, Paul Singer and many more.  The dinner was chaired by hedge fund manager Daniel Loeb, the founder of Third Point LLC. Loeb is the chairman of the board for Success Academy. "I hope this does not create too much controversy if I say this, but I know that Governor Bush came to the state of New York out of love," Loeb said, referring to comments Bush made earlier this month on immigration. Loeb said that the evening wasn't about politics, but about possibility that comes from education and innovation. Even though the evening wasn't "about politics," Bush's speech on Success Academy and education reform sounded almost like a campaign speech. He even called out Mayor Bill de Blasio and the teachers unions. "You would think they would celebrate ... Instead, the teachers unions have treated you like a virus that must be contained," he said, touting the Success Academy students' top test scores in math and language arts. Earlier this year, Mayor Bill de Blasio — who received the teachers union endorsement during his mayoral campaign — revoked plans to open three new Success Academy charter schools. The schools had been approved during to the Bloomberg administration to co-locate in public school buildings rent-free. After months of fighting, Success Academy, which is run by former NYC Councilwoman Eva Moskowitz, has finally found new homes for those charter schools. New York-based law firms Arnold &amp; Porter, Paul Weiss, and Kirkland &amp; Ellis all helped by providing pro bono services.  "Mayor de Blasio tried to block three academies from moving into public school buildings," said Bush. "Now look, I've been out of office for a while. I don't really understand this new political environment. It's a little wacky right now based on what I can tell. By the way, the people in the press are here so don't exaggerate what I just said, please," he joked as the audience broke into laughter. "The simple fact is, though, that it's not very logical when you campaign on a platform of ensuring that every child gets a great education and then you try to deny access to the very schools that are meeting that goal? I'm missing something," he continued. Julia La Roche for Business InsiderDaniel Loeb, the CEO of Third Point LLC and chairman of Success Academy's boardBush said that the success of charter schools is a threat to the failed status quo in public education. According to Loeb, last night's second annual gala raised at least $7.75 million for Success Academy. Loeb is one of a handful of fund managers that's become heavily involved in education reform efforts, particularly by working with charter schools.  Success' founder and CEO Eva Moskowitz said that Loeb is someone who always has "great ideas" and is "incredibly engaged" when it comes to charter schools.  She said that he thought of introducing the game of chess in Kindergarten. The Success Academy fifth graders now read The New York Times every day (The Wall Street Journal is a little too difficult for that age group, according to Moskowitz). The students have also incorporated finance into the curriculum and they got to visit the New York Stock Exchange thanks to Loeb.  Campbell Brown, who was honored for her work advocating on behalf of charter schools, said that Loeb is like a Marine when it comes to fighting for charter schools.   "Dan Loeb has been a great partner in crime for the last couple of years and nobody is more dedicated to this cause than he is," Brown said. "When I think of Dan Loeb, I think of the phrase used to describe is the U.S. Marine's, 'There is no better friend and no worse enemy.'"  FREE AppDownload
China's exports and imports of goods amounted to $4.16 trillion in 2013, topping the U.S. for the first time. A new Standard Chartered report by Madhur Jha and other Standard Chartered economists, titled "Global Trade Unbundled," highlights just how much of a trading giant China has become.  "China is a true mega-trader — a position last held by colonial Britain, with trade significant not only as a share of world trade (11.5%) but also of its own GDP (47%)," according to Jha. "China will likely become a champion of free trade." The U.S. is China's top export destination. China's trade with Latin America has risen more than 200 times since 1990 and is the fastest-growing corridor. China's trade is beginning to slow, however. Exports accounted for about 25% of GDP in 2012, down from 35% in 2007. And the slowdown is broad based. The good news is despite the slowdown, exports to Latin America and Africa are still growing at "double-digit levels." Jha and the other authors identity a few reasons they think China will continue to be a leader of world trade. Standard Chartered economists expect Chinese trade to double in size by 2020. "China’s trade growth is unlikely to rebound to the double-digit level seen over the last couple of decades. However, it is important to remember that the sheer size of China’s trade will mean that even 7% GDP growth, faster than the growth in developed world trade, would make China the single biggest contributor to world trade in absolute terms." Here's a look at the China's major trade corridors in 1990 and 2012. Standard Chartered
Phil Parsons Racing The no. 98 Ford driven by Josh Wise will have a new paint scheme after the Dogecoin community raised more than $50,000 to sponsor the car for this week's Aaron's 499 at Talladega. Wise, who is in his third full Sprint Cup season, has spent much of the year without a main sponsor for his car. A NASCAR fan on Reddit started a fundraiser to get Wise a sponsor and it took just eight days for the community of the internet currency to raise the funds necessary. Here is the result. Here it is! Thanks to all that made it happen. See you in 'Dega! #NASCAR pic.twitter.com/gk0YlRrnBJ Getty Images FREE AppDownload
The comeback of the U.S. housing market has been one of the most bullish economic stories in the world since the financial crisis. Sales, construction starts, and prices have all trended higher. While sales are up, ownership rates are actually down as reluctant Americans are opting to rent rather than buy. According to new Census data, the homeownership rate slipped to 64.8% in Q1 from 65.0 % a year ago and 65.2% in the previous quarter. This is the lowest level since Q3 1995. With the housing market recovery stalling a bit recently, some argue that this trend needs to reverse. "For housing market re-acceleration, a pickup in household formation is essential," said UBS's Sam Coffin. "Household formation had accelerated through a year ago but faltered surprisingly in 2013." Coffin believes Ownership rates will pick up again soon. Others, however, are not so optimistic. "Tight mortgage credit, especially for first time homebuyers, we expect will contribute to a continued downtrend in the homeownership rate in coming years and an historically disproportionate share of new household formations going into rentals and multi-family," said Morgan Stanley's Ted Wieseman earlier this month. US Census Bureau FREE AppDownload
Last night HLF issued their Q1 results that seemed about as gimmicky as it gets. What do I mean by that? Well simple, issue an earnings report for the quarter just ended that beats Wall Street estimates handily, guide the current quarter down and then raise full year eps. The obvious push out in my opinion. Here is the summary: What I also find interesting is that sales growth for HLF is decelerating at a fairly rapid pace for a company that attracts so much attention. In each of the last two years, HLF has grown sales 18% a year, while analysts only expect sales to grow about 8% for the next two years. For those of you who are not following at home, this stock is a battleground between 2 hedge fund titans, Bill Ackman of Pershing Square who is basically most of the short interest between short stock and long puts (about 33% of the float), with Carl Icahn on the other side who is the largest holder with 17 million shares or about 17% of the stock. I don’t pretend to have any insight into either investor’s thinking, but despite Mr. Icahn’s tweet last night expressing his agreement with HLF’s actions to suspend their dividend to buy back more stock, I would be more emboldened if I were on the short side. Great move by #HLF to suspend dividend &amp; buyback shares. $HLF accelerates return to shareholders. Confirms confidence in the future. Again, Mr. Icahn has put a considerable amount of capital behind his belief that HLF’s sales practices are on the up and up, that they sell products that actually work, that the stock is considerably undervalued and that most of all Mr. Ackman is dead wrong and will be carried out on his thesis that the company is a pyramid scheme and that it will be shut down by regulators. He basically outlined his strategy for the HLF investment on his CNBC battle with Bill Ackman last year – he simply wants to squeeze Mr. Ackman until Mr. Ackman is finally forced to cover his short. And my guess is that if and when that happens, Mr. Icahn will be giddily selling his shares to Mr. Ackman at higher prices. However, the news flow over the past 6 months has gotten more negative as the regulatory scrutiny on the company has increased. So Mr. Icahn’s game plan has not exactly worked as planned, though he also knows that Pershing Square owns Jan15 50 puts (the single largest strike of open interest at 67,000 contracts we described here on Jan 16th) that Mr. Icahn would love to expire worthless and thus deplete Mr. Ackman’s coffers. HLF management knows that as well, so the company might know that it’s on thin ice, but if it can keep the stock propped up over the next 9 months, maybe Bill Ackman will finally have to simply take his loss on his options and reconsider his short stock position. Nonetheless, Herbalife has used an awful lot of ammo in the past few months, and the stock is still lower in that period. That might be all the evidence we need that HLF is headed lower, even as management seems more focused on squeezing a short as opposed to mounting a solid defense to increased regulatory scrutiny. The company is becoming increasingly levered in an effort to achieve this final point, and frankly I am surprised that there has not been a bid to take the company private by an investor group given what appears to be the company’s apparent confidence about the viability of their business model. One last point, my trade referred to in first paragraph was a throw away trade, but the trade that I may look to do is a ratio put spread that I detailed back on March 3rd: Name That Trade: HLF – If I Had A Billion Dollars, Stay Tuned. This article originally appeared at Risk Reversal .  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
CNBCOne of the greatest feuds in Wall Street history appears to have come to an end. Billionaire activist investors and long-time rivals Carl Icahn and Bill Ackman have made up after a decade of fighting. The Wall Street Journal reports: The hatchet was buried on Thursday. Mr. Ackman spoke with Mr. Icahn's assistant on April 24 saying, "I am calling to forgive Carl," according to Mr. Ackman. Mr. Icahn, 78 years old, returned the call and told Mr. Ackman, 47, that "it is a blessing to forgive," Mr. Icahn said, "and I forgive you." The development suggests that the duo, who famously clashed on their views about nutrition company Herbalife, could team up on activist investments, where investors push for broad changes at companies or try to move prices with their arguments. Neither would name a target or timetable. In the future, Mr. Ackman said: "There is a much greater possibility that we are on the same side than the opposite." The pair of activist investors have been fighting for years. It all began with a "forgettable" deal in 2003. Back then, Ackman was running Gotham Partners, which was being hit with redemptions and investigated by the SEC at the time over MBIA (the Municipal Bond Insurance Association). He cold-called Icahn and asked him to buy his shares of Hallwood Realty, a real estate company trading for about $60 a share. Ackman believed the stock was worth $140. Icahn agreed to buy the shares for $80, with a deal that he would split the profit with Ackman if he sold the shares within three years. In 2004, Hallwood merged with another company for $137 a share, but Icahn wouldn't give Ackman a cut. A lawsuit followed, Ackman won and Icahn paid him the $9 million Ackman's investors were owed. Things got so nasty between the two fund managers that waiters at upscale Italian restaurant Marea know never to seat them near each other.  Then, in December 2012, Ackman publicly declared that he was shorting $1 billion worth of Herbalife because he thinks the company is a "pyramid scheme." Shortly after that, Icahn decided to bet against Ackman and amassed a large long position. He called it a "no brainer."  A month later, the two fund managers were involved in a nasty public fight, live on CNBC. While Ackman was responding to Icahn's criticism of his Herbalife investment, Icahn called in to the "Half Time Report" and the insults were flying. "I'm telling you he's like a crybaby in the schoolyard. I went to a tough school in Queens you know, and they used to beat up the little Jewish boys.  He was like one of the little Jewish boys crying that the world is taking advantage of him ..." Icahn said when Ackman called him up in 2003, adding "You'll rue the day I ever met the guy." "He's the quintessential example of if you want a friend on Wall Street, get a dog," Icahn later said. While Ackman made the first call to forgive Icahn, it was actually Icahn who made the first step by defending Ackman on CNBC after slamming him for the last year.  He defended criticism of Ackman's Valeant and Allergan play. Some folks have raised concerns about Ackman buying a 9.7% stake in Allergan's stock, knowing that Valeant would make a bid for the Botox-maker.  "I don't even think it's immoral. I mean, he's doing something for the company. I mean — I, frankly, never thought I'd be defending him. But I think he's — I don't think there's anything wrong with that," Icahn told CNBC's David Faber. While they still disagree on Herbalife, all the fighting in the past seems to be water under the bridge for now.  FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia Commons Last year Oxford associate professor Michael Osborne, along with coauthor Carl Frey, published a paper called "The Future Of Employment: How Susceptible Are Jobs To Computerisation?" Their central premise: "The secular price decline in the real cost of computing has created vast economic incentives for employers to substitute labour for computer capital." To see how bad it can get, they took 702 occupations and calculated the odds of them getting replaced by robots. First, they divided the occupations into positive and negative responses to the following question:  “Can the tasks of this job be sufficiently specified, conditional on the availability of big data, to be performed by state of the art computer-controlled equipment?”   They then further sorted the fields according to a set of skills, like dexterity and originality, that they rated as having a greater or lower tendency toward computerization. Osborne presented the paper today in London (Via Channel 4's Faisal Islam). The main finding: 47% of total US employment is at high risk of getting replaced by a robots, "meaning that associated occupations are potentially automatable over some unspecified number of years, perhaps a decade or two."  Below are the results.  As we just mentioned, "47% employment" means 47% of the 702 occupations are at high risk of getting taken over. 19% could go either way. 33% are unlikely to. They go on to sort the 702 occupations into 12 categories. The y-axis shows the number of people working in each of those categories, while the x-axis shows automization probability. So, for instance, "sales and related" jobs have a huge chunk of positions that are at high risk of automization. Hence the big red section on the right. On the other hand, "education, legal," etc. have a greater chunk of positions with a low probability of getting taken over by robots (hence the big light blue on the left).   Michael Osborne Osborne continues, by noting which skills least susceptible to being replaced by a robot: ..."fine arts”, “originality”, “negotiation”, “persuasion”, “social perceptiveness”, and “assisting and caring for others”, variables, all exhibit relatively high values in the low risk category. By contrast, we note that the “manual dexterity”, “finger dexterity” and “cramped work space” variables take relatively low values. Hence, in short, generalist oc- cupations requiring knowledge of human heuristics, and specialist occupations involving the development of novel ideas and artifacts, are the least susceptible to computerization.   So if you're, say, in the arts, and your job requires "negotiation" there's virtually no chance you're going to be replaced by a robot. If your job is in production or sales, and doesn't involve any of the above skills, then watch out. Osborne admits there are lots of caveats here. First, thee measure is inherently subjective. he also says we will eventually reach a "technological plateau" that represents the gap between automation of manual repetitive labor and automation of tasks requiring human-specific abilities. But it looks like the writing's on the wall.  FREE AppDownload
Michael Jackson/US NavyAn F-35 during its missile test run.Boeing has been loudly criticizing Lockheed Martin's F-35 in hopes that the Navy and other clients will buy more of its EA-18G Growlers for support and F/A-18 Super Hornets as contingency. Developed in a Joint Strike Fighter contract that Lockheed won over Boeing in 2001, the F-35 is wildly over budget and has run into various design problems. Chief among them, according to Boeing, is the weakness of its stealth technology. In a presentation earlier this month called "The Perishability of Stealth," Boeing argued that the F-35's stealth and radar jamming systems won't work against some new radar technology. Boeing claims that stealth fighters need support from electromagnetic spectrum warfare aircraft, such as Boeing's EA-18G Growler, which can disrupt enemy sensors, interrupt command and control systems, and jam weapons' homing across all bands within the electromagnetic threat spectrum. "Today is kind of a paradigm shift, not unlike the shift in the early part of the 20th century when they were unsure of the need to control the skies," Mike Gibbons, the vice president for Boeing's F/A-18 Super Hornet and EA-18G Growler programs, told Business Insider. "Today, the need to control the EM spectrum is much the same." "Stealth technology was never by itself sufficient to protect any of our own forces," Gibbons said. Lockheed, for its part, insists that the F-35 is fully capable of blocking signals itself. Lockheed also questions the wisdom of flying the two aircraft in tandem, since the Growler is not a stealth aircraft and its presence could alert enemies. Boeing counters that the F-35 needs support from an aircraft that can block signals across the electromagnetic threat spectrum and which can also block signals while moving away from targets, as the Growler can. Here's an image from Boeing's presentation of the Growler's effectiveness across the electromagnetic spectrum: Screenshot/Boeing Here's another slide showing the full spectrum jamming capability of the Growler, illustrated by different colors representing different wavelengths, versus the F-35's X-band only jammer. The circles represent overlapping layers of an enemy's EM spectrum:Screenshot/Boeing Now even Boeing will admit that the F-35 has its value. Designed to replace a range of fighter, strike, and ground attack aircraft, the Joint Strike Fighter can take on various missions that the Growler could not handle on its own. Still, Boeing wants the Growler, which is heavily armed in its own right, to provide additional support. "The Growler today protects stealth aircraft from EM warfare," Gibbons told Business Insider. "It protects Super Hornets, it will protect the F-35 when it is operational, it even protects B-2 bombers." The Navy recently placed 22 Growlers on its unfunded priorities list, signaling a belief that the F-35 may need the additional support. Gibbons estimates that the Navy will eventually push for between 50 to 100 more Growlers once the first 22 are funded. Boeing is also pushing for the Navy to buy more Super Hornets. The Super Hornet is a multirole fighter that can be equipped with a range of surface-to-air and surface-to-ground missiles and a variety of bombs, though it is ultimately less flexible than the F-35 and has a smaller range. FREE AppDownload
ReutersCoach shares dropped more than 9% Tuesday after the company reported a disappointing decline in third quarter sales. North American comparable store sales plunged 21%, marking the fourth straight quarter of declines. The company also reported a 7% decline in third quarter revenue to $1.1 billion. Here's why the company is in trouble: 1. Coach's core business in North America—the sale of women's handbags and accessories—is failing. The company is trying to ramp up sales of men's footwear and accessories in Europe and Asian markets to offset that weakness.  2. The company is continuing open new stores and grow its inventory in North America despite plunging sales in the region. Coach executives said in October that the company was planning to increase its square footage in the region by 7% through 20 new store openings and 20 expansions, including two new store concepts at flagship locations in New York and Southern California. 3. Coach continues to face fierce competition from its much smaller rivals, including Michael Kors, Tory Burch and Kate Spade. Coach shares have dropped 10% in the past year, compared with a 72% jump in Kors and a 67% gain in Kate Spade. Michael Kors also overtook Coach this year as the most sought-after handbag brand among teens, according to a Piper Jaffray survey. FREE AppDownload
ReutersAllergan will not go quietly. The pharmaceutical company says that it has contacted Sanofi and Johnson &amp; Johnson to see if either company would like to buy it, says Bloomberg.  In deal-land they call this a "white knight." In this case, Allergan's buyer would be saving the company from an unsolicited bid from its competitor, Valeant, made last week. Valeant teamed up with hedge fund manager Bill Ackman to attempt to acquire Allergan in a $45.7 billion deal. They used a technique perfected in the 1980s called a "toehold." To put it as simply as possible, Ackman's fund bought almost 10% of Allergan, will use its influence to ensure the sale to Valeant goes through, and will lend cash to the acquisition deal. Thing is, Allergan knows that if it is acquired by Valeant it will have to do business the Valeant way. That means cuts everywhere, especially to research and development. The average pharmaceutical company uses 19% of its revenue for R&amp;D. Valeant likes that number below 5%, and prefers to acquire new products by acquiring the companies that make them. As for this "white knight" scenario, Wall Street figured this might be an option. In a note yesterday, JP Morgan wrote: A “white knight” acquisition of Allergan appears less likely [than the deal going through], in our view. We see a “white knight” friendly acquirer as the next most likely scenario for Allergan, and would expect an offer would have to be at least $175/share (and would likely be all-cash). We believe such an outcome would generate modest upside for AGN shares from current levels, while we would anticipate VRX shares falling to the $115-125 level as the market assigns a lower probably to an MOE type transaction this year. Piper Jaffray specifically noted that the company may want to merge with Shire Pharmaceuticals. Bloomberg reports that investment banks have also been making the rounds, seeing if Bayer wants to acquire Allergan. Way to try to win that deal bank, guys. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Sergei KarpukhinLael BrainardWASHINGTON (Reuters) - The Senate Banking Committee approved three nominees to the Federal Reserve's board on Tuesday, including Stanley Fischer to be the U.S. central bank's No. 2, in a big step toward replenishing the Fed's governing body. The panel also backed the nominations of former senior U.S. Treasury official Lael Brainard and current Fed Governor Jerome Powell, who was nominated for another term. All three nominees were approved on a unanimous voice vote. The nominations are now cleared to go before the full Senate for final confirmation votes. A date for Senate consideration has not yet been set. (Reporting by Michael Flaherty; Editing by James Dalgleish) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Rick WilkingConsumer confidence fell to 82.3 in April, missing expectations for a reading of 83.2. March's reading was revised up to 83.9, from 83.2. The present situation index fell to 78.3, from 82.5, while the expectations index was flat. Consumer spending accounts for about 40% of the economy and investors watch this to gauge how the economy is holding up. Here's the entire press release: The Conference Board Consumer Confidence Index®, which had increased in March, declined slightly in April. The Index now stands at 82.3 (1985=100), down from 83.9 in March. The Present Situation Index decreased to 78.3 from 82.5, while the Expectations Index was virtually unchanged at 84.9 versus 84.8 in March.The monthly Consumer Confidence Survey®, based on a probability-design random sample, is conducted for The Conference Board by Nielsen, a leading global provider of information and analytics around what consumers buy and watch. The cutoff date for the preliminary results was April 17.“Consumer confidence declined slightly in April, as consumers assessed current business and labor market conditions less favorably than in March,” said Lynn Franco, Director of Economic Indicators at The Conference Board. “However, their expectations regarding the short-term outlook for the economy and labor market held steady. Thus, while sentiment regarding current conditions may have slipped a bit, consumers do not foresee the economy, or the labor market, losing the momentum that has been building up over the past several months.”Consumers’ appraisal of current conditions pulled back moderately in April. Those claiming business conditions are “good” edged down to 21.8 percent from 22.6 percent, while those claiming business conditions are “bad” rose to 24.4 percent from 23.5 percent. Consumers’ assessment of the labor market was also slightly more negative. Those stating jobs are “plentiful” declined to 12.9 percent from 13.8 percent, while those saying jobs are “hard to get” increased to 32.5 percent from 31.4 percent.Consumers’ expectations held steady in April. The percentage of consumers expecting business conditions to improve over the next six months was unchanged at 17.4 percent, while those anticipating business conditions to worsen increased marginally to 10.3 percent from 10.1 percent. Consumers were slightly more optimistic about the outlook for the labor market. Those expecting more jobs in the months ahead increased to 15.0 percent from 14.1 percent, while those expecting fewer jobs edged up to 17.9 percent from 17.5 percent. The proportion of consumers anticipating their incomes to grow increased to 17.1 percent from 15.3 percent, but those expecting a drop in their incomes also increased, to 12.9 percent from 11.5 percent. FREE AppDownload
At work and at home, we want what we want. The question is, how do we get it?
ReutersThe TXU Monticello Steam Electric Station power plant.The biggest private equity deal in history has been put out of its misery, and Energy Future Holdings has filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy. The $45 billion deal to take the 132-year-old Texas utility company private marked a peak in the leveraged-buyout boom in 2007, right before cash dried up all over the world. At that point, it seemed like everyone was doing deals, and even Warren Buffett made a $2 billion bond investment — an investment he called a "big mistake." As early as February 2013, however, the major players in the deal — Leon Black of Apollo Global Management, Blackstone’s GSO Capital Partners, KKR, TPG Capital, and others — were sitting down to discuss how to restructure the company's $40 billion debt. A debt payment due in October 2014 loomed large. “This deal never made sense,” Erik Gordon, a private equity and law professor at the University of Michigan, told Bloomberg back in 2013. “It could only have been done during the times of hysterical overoptimism by everybody — by KKR and TPG and by all the lenders who put up the money.” Reports about the urgency of the bankruptcy deal conflicted in the weeks before it was done. The New York Times reported that there was "little pressure on the company to act immediately as it has ample cash on its balance sheet to make its next round of interest payments," according to Wall Street analysts. But on Tuesday evening, as the news broke that the bankruptcy had been filed, the Wall Street Journal reported that the company had $100 million in skipped debt payment coming due this week. The negotiation included over $11 billion in loans, exchanging subsidiary Texas Competitive Electric Holdings for $25 billion in debt forgiveness, and enough details to fill up the Lone Star State. You can check out the document below, via ZeroHedge: TXU Chapter 11 by zerohedge  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Leonhard FoegerA participant drives a 1954 Porsche 356 1500S up a street on mount Stoderzinken during the Ennstal Classic rally near the small Austrian village of Groebming.BERLIN (Reuters) - German carmaker Volkswagen &lt;VOWG_p.DE&gt; posted a quarterly jump in operating profit as Europe's fledgling economic recovery lifted sales of Audi and Porsche luxury models to record levels. First-quarter underlying earnings at Europe's biggest carmaker gained 22 percent to 2.9 billion euros ($4 billion), compared with 2.3 billion a year ago, VW said on Tuesday. That beat the average estimate of 2.74 billion euros in a Reuters poll of analysts and was just short of the highest forecast of 3.05 billion euros. But VW stuck to the cautious outlook it published in February, even though core European markets that account for 40 percent of group sales have increased volumes for seven straight months. Rebounding demand in Europe helped VW's luxury Audi brand and sports-car maker Porsche to boost first-quarter deliveries by 11.7 percent and 4.5 percent respectively to 413,000 and 38,700. VW's group operating margin may be broadly flat this year, coming in a range of 5.5 percent to 6.5 percent, after 5.9 percent last year, VW said, reiterating its February 21 statement. That compares with 2013 car division margins of 8.8 percent at Toyota &lt;7203.T&gt; and 9 percent at Hyundai &lt;005380.KS&gt;. VW's year-on-year improvement was also boosted by 350 million euros of provisions at VW's engineering division MAN SE &lt;MANG.DE&gt; for a failed power plant project and the cost of an overseas vehicle recall, analysts said. VW expects to increase group deliveries slightly from last year's record 9.7 million vehicles and sales to move within a range of 3 percent around last year's 197 billion euros. ($1 = 0.7223 Euros) (Reporting by Andreas Cremer; Editing by David Goodman) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersWorkers demolish an old residential buildings in central ShanghaiBEIJING (Reuters) - China's resource-dependent and manufacturing-heavy provinces suffered the sharpest growth slowdown in the first quarter as the government pushed to reduce overcapacity and pollution, adding to signs of protracted weakness in the economy. Annual economic growth in Hebei province, the nation's top steel producer, tumbled to 4.2 percent in the first quarter of 2014 from 8.2 percent in the previous quarter, according to data released by government websites and official newspapers. Inner Mongolia, which provides one-third of the coal supply in the country, saw gross domestic product (GDP) growth dipping to 7.3 percent in the first quarter from 9.9 percent a year earlier. Growth in Heilongjiang was 4.1 percent in the first quarter, the lowest among 30 of 31 provinces and municipalities, according to the data. Economic growth was 5.5 percent in Shanxi, a major coal producing province which has been hit by slumping coal prices. Shaanxi province has yet to publish its first-quarter growth data. First-quarter growth in almost all Chinese provinces was below their annual targets, according to local media. The government has stepped up efforts to rein in sectors with excessive capacity and heavy polluters, even as it has hastened construction of railways and affordable housing in a bid to underpin growth, while the central bank has cut its required reserve ratios for rural banks. "The move (on overcapacity and pollution) is having a big impact on economic growth, but we see some signs of stabilization due to recent policy support," said Li Heng, an economist at Minsheng Securities in Beijing. The latest Reuters poll found respondents believed economic growth could slow to 7.3 percent in the second quarter from 7.4 percent in the previous three months. The economy is expected to grow 7.3 percent in 2014 - the weakest showing in 24 years and down from 7.7 percent last year. The central bank said in a report released on Tuesday it will step up efforts to quicken interest rate liberalization and open up the capital account, even though the economy still faces downward pressures. FEELING THE PINCH Hebei has pledged to slash total steel capacity by 60 million metric tons by 2017 as part of a program to cut air pollution in northern China. At least 16 of its steel firms have also stopped producing as a result of financial problems, the provincial governor said last month. Local media attributed slower growth in Heilongjiang, which relies heavily on manufacturing and coal mining, to its efforts to shut down inefficient factories. The biggest export-oriented provinces such as Guangdong and Zhejiang provinces also posted slower growth in the first quarter, with their GDP growing only around 7 percent, dragged by faltering trade orders. The fastest growth regions are Chongqing, Guizhou and Tianjin. Chongqing's growth rate slowed to 10.9 percent in the first quarter from 12.5 percent a year earlier, while Guizhou's rate slowed to 10.8 percent from 12.6 percent. Analysts at Bank of America/Merrill Lynch estimated that weighted average of provincial real GDP growth rate in the first quarter was 8 percent, down from 9.5 percent in 2013. China's national economy grew an annual 7.4 percent in the first quarter, slowing from 7.7 percent in the previous quarter. Some analysts have raised suspicion over the growth data, pointing to sluggish factory growth and weak investment. Growth in China's less developed western and central provinces have consistently outpaced that of more affluent eastern regions in recent years, but the latest data showed the gap is narrowing as the former saw growth slowing more quickly. "One explanation is that China's slowing fixed asset investment and falling global commodity prices made China less dependent on those resource producing provinces," analysts at Bank of America/Merrill Lynch said in a note. China's coastal provinces such as Guangdong and Zhejiang have been leading the drive to transform the source of growth from manufacturing to services. The combined economic output of China's provinces has long exceeded that of the national level compiled by the National Bureau of Statistics, raising suspicion that some growth-obsessed local officials have cooked the books. Chinese leaders have recently set new standards for local officials, stressing that their performance cannot be simply based on regional growth rates, but should include resource and environmental costs, debt levels and work safety. (Editing by Kim Coghill) FREE AppDownload
VXLA via FlickrThe Case-Shiller 20-city home price index was up 0.76% month-over-month and 12.86% year-over-year in February. This was pretty much in line with expectations for an 0.8% MoM rise and 13% YoY rise. January's reading was modestly revised lower to reflect a 0.8% MoM rise and 13.17% YoY rise. Thirteen cities posted lower annual rates. "Prices remained steady from January to February for the two Composite indices,” David M. Blitzer, Chairman of the Index Committee at S&amp;P Dow Jones Indices said in a press release. "The annual rates cooled the most we’ve seen in some time." He pointed out that despite price gains, most other housing data has looked weak. "Five years into the recovery from the recession, the economy will need to look to gains in consumer spending and business investment more than housing," said Blitzer. "Long overdue activity in residential construction would be welcome, but is certainly not assured." Ahead of the data, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macroeconomics has warned about reading too much into this data. He argues that Case Shiller data is compromised by foreclosures. "As foreclosed homes typically sell for much less than regular private sales, a decline in the proportion of foreclosure sales will raise reported prices," he writes.  Here's a look at the trajectory of Case-Shiller home prices since 1988: S&P Dow Jones Indices FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Earlier this morning, we saw the Case-Shiller home prices were up up 0.76% month-over-month and 12.86% year-over-year in February, pretty much in line with expectations. But this shouldn't necessarily offer comfort to housing bulls. Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macroeconomics reminds us that these are just averages, and these averages can be skewed heavily by fluctuating foreclosure sales. "As foreclosed homes typically sell for much less than regular private sales, a decline in the proportion of foreclosure sales will raise reported prices. The correlation between changes in the proportion of foreclosures and the rate of increase of Case-Shiller home prices is not perfect, but it is real, as our first chart shows. "Note that Case-Shiller reported prices have risen less quickly than implied by shifts in the foreclosure proportion over the past three quarters, so the impact of the drop in existing home sales is visible in the data. But when we compare the numbers to the median price data from the existing home sales report, it is easy to see why we think Case-Shiller price gains have to slow. By the end of the second quarter, we expect the year-over-year rate to have slowed to about 6-to-8%, which means prices will stop rising on a month-to-month basis. We cannot rule out the idea that the late spring and summer will see a run of absolute declines." Here's a look at how Case-Shiller data is skewed by foreclosures: Pantheon Macroeconomics   FREE AppDownload
Societe GeneraleThe U.S. housing market is actually a combination of many local housing markets. So, while the national average home price has been on the rise, it's important to keep an eye on the local markets because a few local markets are likely to see prices fall before prices fall nationally. The good news is that currently, prices are on the rise in all 20 cities tracked by S&amp;P/Case-Shiller. Societe Generale economist Brian Jones expects this trend to continue at least in the near term. "All of the metropolitan areas canvassed likely will record higher seasonally adjusted selling prices than in January," said Jones previewing today's February report. S&amp;P/Case-Shiller will release their latest numbers at 9:00 a.m. ET. FREE AppDownload
Here are two awesome maps from a recent Standard Chartered report on the state of global trade. The top map shows the big exports from every country. The bottom is the country's imports. Each region is depicted by a few categories, and the number next to each category represents how big that category is for each country. Standard Chartered Standard Chartered FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
(1) Indeed, the forward earnings of the Developed World ex-US MSCI is still below its 2011 high, though it has been recovering since mid-2013. That’s mostly because the plunge in the yen in response to Abenomics propelled the forward earnings of the Japan MSCI by 37.0% last year. (2) So far, the recovery in the Eurozone hasn’t shown up in the forward earnings of the EMU MSCI. Despite solid rebounds in the Eurozone’s M-PMI since mid-2012 and a similar upturn in Germany’s Ifo Business Climate Index, the EMU’s forward earnings has been flat for the past year after falling from mid-2011 through early 2013. (3) Even more puzzling is the UK, which has had stronger economic growth than the Eurozone over the past couple of years. Yet forward earnings, which have been declining since the second half of 2011, are still falling. (4) As for emerging markets, they are neither emerging or submerging, according to the forward earnings of the EM MSCI. It’s been basically flat since 2011. The bottom line is that the US is the fairest of them all based on my analysis of forward earnings around the world. The only problem is that the US isn’t the cheapest of them all. There is a bit of a valuation problem in the US stock market because many stocks are either fairly valued or overvalued. The current internal correction should correct this problem. While it is happening, the S&amp;P 500 could churn sideways for a while before grinding higher to end 2014 at 2014.  Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Earnings World. (1) Fully Invested Bears. (2) Barron’s has a tired bull on the cover. (3) Big Money poll finds more bulls than bears, but less bullishness. (4) Everyone hates bonds. We don’t, but we don’t love them either. (5) Contrarian indicators. (6) Is the market’s leadership change a sign of a top? (7) A brief review of the internal correction. (8) A brief review of forward earnings around the world shows USA is fairest of them all, but not cheapest. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
Marko DjuricaA pro-Russian armed man lends his weapon to a boy posing for a picture for his father in front of the seized town administration building in Kostyantynivka April 28, 2014. Good morning! Here's what you need to know. Pfizer's Tax Gambit. Bloomberg's Jesse Drucker and Zach Mider report that if Pfizer successfully acquires AstraZeneca, they would join "a wave of U.S. companies using mergers as ways to slash income tax bills by shifting their head office overseas -- often on paper only. 'This is basically an opportunity to go outside the U.S. and still sell in the U.S. and strip the tax base,' said H. David Rosenbloom, an attorney at Caplin &amp; Drysdale in Washington and director of the international tax program at  New York University’s school of law. Energy Future Bankruptcy. The subject of the largest-ever private-equity buyout filed for creditor protection. Energy Future, once known as TXU, serves over a million customers in Texas. It could not fight through plummeting natural gas prices. "This is not the ending that the Wall Street private equity firms, including Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, TPG Capital and the private equity arm of Goldman Sachs, envisioned in 2007, when they acquired the TXU Corporation in a colossal $45 billion deal," the New York Times said. "Their investments are expected to be all but be wiped out in the bankruptcy." Deutsche Bank Slowdown. The firm's net income dropped by a third in Q1 on low interest rates and slow client activity. "Deutsche is one of the least well capitalised banks among its peers and has faced pressure to raise equity amid concerns over its capital strength," the FT said. "Eurozone-wide bank stress tests by the European Banking Authority this summer could see Deutsche ordered to raise more equity, with executives at the bank said to be bracing for the possibility." MtGox May Not Be Dead Yet. A group of American investors are hoping to preempt the Bitcoin's exchange's liquidation, and last night announced they'd come to terms with two sets of class action plaintiffs on its behalf. "The company negotiated the settlement as part of its effort to take over the bankrupt exchange before a court-ordered liquidation," Sunlot's statement said. William Quigley, one of the Sunlot investors, added that,“Liquidation would have adverse consequences for Mt Gox customers and the entire Bitcoin community. Millions of dollars worth of lost bitcoins would never be recovered and most of Mt Gox's assets would go to paying bankruptcy lawyers and others involved in the process rather than customers.”  Fed Vacancy Votes. The Senate will vote on three nominees — including Stanley Fischer at vice chair — for vacant Federal Reserve board positions today. Samsung Earnings. Earnings fell for the second-consecutive quarter but the company hit its forecast for Galaxy sales thanks to developing market demand. Operating profit fell 3.3% YOY, but sales increased 1.5%. Case-Shiller. At 9 a.m. we get the Case-Shiller home price index for February. Expecations are for a seasonally-adjusted increase of 0.7% from January, down a bit from the prior 0.8% gain. Consumer Confidence.   At 10 a.m. we get the Conference Board's consumer confidence reading for April. Analysts forecast it will come in at 83.0 from 82.3 prior. Earnings. Twitter, ebay, and Sprint announce earnings today. Herbalife's earnings conference call begins at 11 a.m. Markets. U.S. futures are up. Stocks are higher around the world, led by Germany's DAX at 1.26%.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Luke MacGregorA man walks past Deutsche Bank offices in London.FRANKFURT (Reuters) - Deutsche Bank's &lt;DBKGn.DE&gt; pretax profit fell by 30 percent in the first quarter to 1.68 billion euros ($2.33 billion), the bank said on Tuesday, depressed by an industry-wide slump in bond trading revenue. Pretax profit in the investment banking division fell by more than a fifth, dragged down by a 10 percent fall in trading income, the bank said in a statement. The division includes Deutsche Bank's main trading unit - fixed income, currencies and commodities, or FICC. Deutsche Bank had been expected to post quarterly pretax profit of 1.4 billion euros ($1.9 billion), around 1 billion less than a year earlier, according to the average result of a Reuters poll. This version of the story changes 'revenue' to 'pretax profit' in second para. (Reporting by Thomas Atkins; Editing by Noah Barkin) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe Pfizer logo is seen at their world headquarters in New York(Reuters) - A wave of tax-driven overseas deal-making by U.S. companies gained momentum with drugmaker Pfizer Inc's &lt;PFE.N&gt; announcement on Monday that it had made takeover bids for UK rival AstraZeneca Plc &lt;AZN.L&gt;, fueling political concerns about tax "reflagging" strategies. Pfizer said it wants to buy AstraZeneca and merge the two companies into a UK holding company with a UK tax domicile, while maintaining its operational headquarters in New York. It would likely be the largest deal ever done that included such a so-called tax "inversion." If a deal goes through - which is far from certain given AstraZeneca has so far rejected Pfizer's overtures - it would likely mean a loss of corporate tax revenue for the United States, and a lower effective tax rate for the combined entity than the two companies pay now. For 2013, Pfizer disclosed an effective rate of 27.5 percent and global cash income tax paid of $2.87 billion, including income taxes paid to the U.S. government and other state and foreign tax authorities, based on company filings. The Pfizer proposal triggered concern in Washington. "This further demonstrates the urgency for tax reform," said a spokeswoman for Democratic Senator Ron Wyden, chairman of the tax-writing U.S. Senate Finance Committee. "Now is the time to undertake comprehensive reform to ensure our country stays competitive on a global stage and continues to be the best place for corporate investment," the spokeswoman said. Governments worldwide are increasingly wary of corporate tax avoidance. The Obama administration earlier this year included a proposal in its 2015 budget to clamp down on deals like the one Pfizer is pursuing. The administration's proposal is unlikely to go anywhere though with Congress deadlocked on tax issues. The U.S. Internal Revenue Service on Friday issued a separate notice limiting shareholders' tax-free treatment in inversion transactions. TAX-DRIVEN DEALS RAMP UP Since the 2008 global financial crisis, about two dozen U.S. companies have shifted their legal tax residences to lower-tax countries via corporate deals, versus about the same number over the previous 25 years, a Reuters review of transactions showed. Ireland, the Netherlands, Switzerland, Canada and Britain lately have been the most common destinations of U.S. companies seeking new tax domiciles, replacing preferred havens of years past such as Bermuda and the Cayman Islands. Buying AstraZeneca would allow Pfizer to escape the comparatively high 35-percent U.S. corporate income tax rate. The United States has one of the highest such tax rates in the world, though most multinational companies pay less than that due to plentiful loopholes. Pfizer spokeswoman Joan Campion said the UK holding company structure being contemplated "provides for a more efficient tax structure that doesn't subject AstraZeneca's non-U.S. profits to U.S. tax." Campion declined further comment. Inversions allow U.S. corporations to escape that high rate by moving to a lower-tax country, via an acquisition, a merger or the creation of a new holding company. They can also reduce overall U.S. profits in a process known as "earnings stripping" that involves loading up the legacy U.S. business with tax-deductible debt, said academics and private tax watchdog groups. The AstraZeneca transaction would also give Pfizer a way to spend some of an estimated $69 billion it is holding abroad under a law that lets U.S. companies shelter overseas earnings from U.S. taxes by keeping them out of the United States. OMNICOM-PUBLICIS DEAL Another large inversion deal is New York advertising firm Omnicom Group Inc's &lt;OMC.N&gt; proposed $35-billion merger with Paris rival Publicis Groupe SA &lt;PUBP.PA). This transaction is encountering approval delays among European tax authorities. Omnicom and Publicis announced in mid-2013 they planned to merge into a new corporate holding company to be based in the Netherlands, with operating units staying in New York and Paris. The merger was described then as tax-free to shareholders of both companies, with each side getting about 50 percent of the shares in the new Dutch holding company. The deal was then expected to close in late 2013 or early 2014. Last week, Omnicom said Dutch and UK tax authorities had not yet approved the deal, which Omnicom had previously said would save $80 million a year in taxes. A plan to make the company tax resident in the UK while being domiciled in the Netherlands had become a particular stumbling block. Omnicom-Publicis is more like a merger of equals than it is an inversion, but "the practical impact of this transaction is that the company is achieving a corporate inversion," said Bret Wells, a professor at the University of Houston Law Center who has studied corporate inversions for years. Though the Obama budget proposal is unlikely to become law anytime soon, it does indicate that the U.S. government is trying to grapple with the question of inversions. "It's been a decade since the first inversion legislation was enacted and Obama is now trying to tighten the rules," said Steven Rosenthal, a tax expert and senior fellow at the Urban Institute, a policy think tank in Washington, D.C. "There's a lot of concern about losing U.S. companies to these reflagging operations," he said. IRS TAKES STEP The IRS's move last week "further evidences the government's narrow reading of the inversion rules and dovetails with the Obama administration's 2015 budget proposal to narrow the scope of permitted inversions," said international law firm Cadwalader, Wickersham &amp; Taft LLP in an emailed update to clients on tax-related merger and acquisition developments. "More companies are currently considering inversions by merger, including mergers involving two or more foreign jurisdictions," said Linda Swartz, chair of Cadwalader's tax group. "Companies have become more comfortable with the prospect of inverting as the number of announced deals has steadily increased this year." The Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development, a Paris-based club of major industrial economies, is studying tax base erosion and the related issue of profit shifting by multinational corporations among units in different countries. The United States was among members of the G20 nations that endorsed the OECD project. "Profits should be taxed where economic activities deriving the profits are performed and where value is created," said a declaration of the G20 leaders in September after a summit meeting in St. Petersburg, Russia. The IRS has addressed inversions, which are generally thought to have first emerged in 1982, by trying to define what is and is not a foreign business, and by trying to curb opportunities for earnings stripping, but with little success. A flurry of deals from 1997 through 2002 saw several major U.S. companies reflag in Bermuda and the Cayman Islands. Congress cracked down with a stricter law in 2004 and the flow of deals dried up for a few years. The latest wave of deals got under way in 2008 after the financial crisis abated. The wave has continued amid inconclusive IRS efforts to define how much presence a corporation must have in the United States and abroad to be treated as a foreign company for U.S. tax purposes. (Additional reporting by Tom Bergin and Ben Hirschler in London; Nicola Leske, Olivia Oran, Nadia Damouni, Leila Abboud and Ransdell Pierson in New York; Editing by Martin Howell) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/John GressTrader Brian Duffy (R) reacts in the S&P 500 pit at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange.Stifel Nicolaus' Dave Lutz has a roundup of what traders are talking about right now. Morning!  Bulls love Tuesdays ---&gt; The market has returned almost 9% ytd on Tuesdays, rallying 86% of time.  That trend is intact early, with S&amp;P futures popping 35bp – but Nasdaq futures are up almost 50bp on Chip deals and AAPL’s vertical trajectory (I’m Long).   Over in Europe, the DAX is jumping over 1%, with trading 20% heavier than the normal averages.   DB#’s and release of Stress test scenarios have Fins leading Europe higher.   FTSE Volumes are off 20%+, as the first day of a two day tube strike by London underground workers is causing travel chaos.  We are seeing stress coming off Ukraine still, with Russia’s Micex up 1%, UK Natty on 3Y lows, and a bid under the Ruble this AM.   In Asia, Japan was closed for Holiday ahead of BOJ tomorrow – while Stimulus hopes help China rebound back over the key 2,000 level as data showed the slowdown worsening.   Aussie lost almost 1% as Miners and Fins were under pressure on falling metal prices and Chinese concerns.  In EM today, stay focused on Brazil, as Santander is buying out it’s Brazilian unit at a nice premium. The 10YY is higher, breaking upside of yesterday’s peaks, and nearing a 200dma test around 2.72% into the FOMC announcement tomorrow.   The Yen is breaking down relative to the $, and Hawkish ECB speakers have € jumping – pressuring the DXY lower and causing a tailwind for commodities.   Gold is breaking down under $1300 and the 200dma, while Silver is getting hit for over 1% as risk aversion buying reverses.   Metals traders are focused on Iron Ore, which lost over 5% yesterday as China attacked using Ore for Collateral.   Both WTI and Brent are elevated into Inventory data the next 24 hours, as we await the re-opening of terminals in Libya.   Scheduled Catalysts today include Earnings from BMY, COH, S, BP before the open - CaseShiller Home Price Index at 9, Consumer Confidence at 10, a Decent size POMO at 11, and a 2Y floater auction at 1.   After the bell, we get API data for Crude, along with earnings from AFL, EBAY, GNW, MAR, STX, TWTR among others. FREE AppDownload
Getty Images/Andrew Harrer, BloombergMOSCOW (Reuters) - U.S. payment-card firm Visa said on Tuesday it would suspend network services to Russian banks SMP and InvestCapitalbank, which were sanctioned on Monday by the United States, in order to comply with U.S. law. "We regret any disruptions that the institutions, their cardholders or merchants may experience," Visa said in a statement. "All of Visa's systems are processing normally, and we continue to service our other unaffected Russian clients." Rival MasterCard Inc said on Monday it would suspend services in the near future to cards issued by SMP bank and InvestCapitalbank. InvestCapitalbank and SMP bank were hit with sanctions on Monday in retaliation for Russia's involvement in Ukraine. Both banks are controlled by the Rotenberg brothers, Boris and Arkady. The Rotenbergs, linked to big contracts on gas pipelines and at the Sochi Olympics, were named on a previous U.S. sanctions list issued in March after Russia annexed the Crimea region of Ukraine. Russia recently revived plans to develop its own card payment system to cut its dependence on Visa and Mastercard after U.S. sanctions led to disruptions in their services last month. Both stopped providing services for payment transactions for clients at Bank Rossiya and its unit Sobinbank after the March sanctions. (Reporting by Oksana Kobzeva; Writing by Megan Davies; Editing by Larry King) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ilya Naymushin Employees walk behind an antenna of the Luch space satellite at the large transformed mechanical systems centre of the Reshetnev Information Satellite Systems company in the Siberian town of Zheleznogorsk, some 50 km (31 miles) northeast of Krasnoyarsk, April 2, 2014. MOSCOW (Reuters) - U.S. restrictions on high-tech exports to Russia under its latest Ukraine-related sanctions will be a blow to Russian companies in the sector, Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkovsaid on Tuesday. The White House said on Monday the United States would deny export licenses for any high-technology items that could contribute to Russian military capabilities and revoke existing licenses. "The seriousness of these measures is absolutely obvious for us," Ryabkov told gazeta.ru in an online interview. Ryabkov highlighted high-tech cooperation, including launches of satellites, either American-made or containing U.S. components. "All this hits at our high-tech enterprises and industries," he said. Washington, locked in a Cold War-style conflict with Russia over Ukraine, and Moscow are still cooperating on space exploration. Russian rockets are the only way astronauts around the world can get to the International Space Station since NASA ended shuttle flights in 2012. While NASA was banned earlier this month from contacting the Russian government, operation of the space station, a $100 billion research project owned by 15 countries, is exempt. But Sergei Oznobishchev, director at the Institute for Strategic Assessments think-tank in Moscow, said many other joint space exploration projects would suffer immediately. "This is a very sensitive issue since our defense industry was completely unprepared for such developments," he said. "Both sides will suffer but Russia will lose out more in terms of technology transfer." "For us, this cooperation was largely a technology school," he added. (Reporting by Gabriela Baczynska and Megan Davies; Editing by Nigel Stephenson and Alison Williams) FREE AppDownload
Several people have noticed this weird pattern happening in the market this year. If you hold only on Tuesdays, you're having an awesome year. If you hold just the other 4 days, then not so much. @pipczar (Via @ivanthek, @pipczar, and @macr0man) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA Frontier Airlines jet waits at the gate prior to departure at the Denver International Airport in Denver(Reuters) - Bargain hunters could find themselves paying more to fly after Frontier Airlines, a low-cost carrier, on Monday said it would start charging extra for carry-on bags. The Denver-based carrier said it simplified its price structure and cut its lowest economy fares by 12 percent. But customers taking advantage of the lower fares will now pay $20 to $50 more for a carry-on bag to store in the overhead bin, depending on whether the traveler books online or pays at the gate. Customers can carry on one personal item at no charge. Prior to Monday's announcement, Frontier charged a carry-on fee for consumers who purchased on third-party websites. Those who buy an economy fare will also have to pay additional fees for seats near the front of the plane and with more leg room. Those charges start at $3. The new fees are "very consumer unfriendly no matter how they try to spin it," said Brian Kelly, founder of ThePointsGuy.com, a website that focuses on frequent-flier issues. "Booking Frontier is likely going to cost you more." Frontier travelers who buy the fully refundable and higher-cost Classic Plus fares are allowed one free carry-on and one free checked bag and also incur no seat fees. Frontier, which flies to more than 75 cities in the United States, Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, Jamaica, and Mexico, said in a statement that the "unbundled" economy airfare will allow customers to save by paying only for services they want. In making the changes, Frontier is taking a page from Spirit Airlines &lt;SAVE.O&gt;, the Miramar, Florida-based carrier known for low base fares and extra charges for many other options. Denver-based Frontier was purchased from Republic Airways Holdings &lt;RJET.O&gt; last year by private equity firm Indigo Partners LLC, whose co-founder William Franke is a former Spirit Airlines chairman. Last week, Frontier said Barry Biffle, a former executive vice president of Spirit, had been named its president. "Spirit is known as an airline that will nickel-and-dime you and they're proud of it," Kelly said. "Frontier is not." (Reporting by Karen Jacobs in Atlanta; Editing by Diane Craft) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe construction site of the new headquarters of the European Central Bank (ECB) is seen from the observation deck of the "Maintower" in FrankfurtBERLIN (Reuters) - The annual inflation rate in Europe's largest economy probably picked up in April, potentially raising the euro zone figure and reducing pressure on the European Central Bank to act, data suggested on Tuesday. Euro zone inflation is running at 0.5 percent and concerns about deflation are rife. Data due out on Wednesday is expected to show inflation in the single currency bloc picking up to 0.8 percent in April but that would still be below the ECB's medium-term target of just below 2 percent. On Monday ECB President Mario Draghi played down the likelihood of any imminent money-printing to buy assets, saying that while low inflation would persist, quantitative easing remained a way off, according to a source. Data from some German states suggested the ECB would not need to take action. In North Rhine-Westphalia (NRW), Germany's most populous state and traditionally a bellwether for the national data, the cost of living rose by 1.7 percent on the year in April, compared with 1.4 percent in March. Christian Schulz, senior economist at Berenberg Bank, said figures from the states suggested Germany's national inflation rate increased by 0.3 or 0.4 percentage points in April. "That's also a bit of a precursor for tomorrow's euro zone inflation rate which could then rebound quite nicely," he said. ECB President Vitor Constancio said on Monday April's inflation figures for the euro zone should not alone trigger a policy change because "it's not just one or two numbers that matter". Pan-German inflation figures are due to be published at 1200 GMT, with economists polled by Reuters forecasting a 1.4 percent increase in consumer prices after a 1.0 percent rise the previous month. Schulz said the German data had been volatile in March and April due to the Easter weekend being much later this year than last, postponing price effects on items like package holidays. "Inflation is likely to rebound with the April data. If you look at the March and April average it may still be slightly below where we were in February but not significantly, not enough to trigger more monetary policy action in May," he said. "I think the June meeting is more likely for additional easing because then we'll have less distorted may inflation rate." (Reporting by Michelle Martin; editing by Erik Kirschbaum/Jeremy Gaunt) FREE AppDownload
ISTANBUL (Reuters) - In this city's Grand Bazaar, sellers along labyrinthine passageways hawk carpets, jewelry and souvenir knick-knacks to tourists. Turkish police believe that until recently, the area around the market also sat at the center of an audacious, multi-billion-dollar scheme involving bribery and suspect food shipments to Iran. To date, no one has been charged. But a recently leaked police report - which contains allegations of payments to top Turkish government officials including cash stuffed into shoeboxes - has added fuel to a growing corruption scandal that has shaken the highest levels of Turkey's political establishment. A review by Reuters of the report's 299 pages, as well as interviews with currency and precious metals dealers, offer colorful new details of how what police call a "crime organization" allegedly helped Iran exploit a loophole in the West's sanctions regime that for a time allowed the Islamic Republic to purchase gold with oil and gas revenues. While the gold trade was then legal, the police report alleges the purported crime network bribed officials in part so it could maintain control of the lucrative business. Then, when the West last July prohibited the gold trade as a sanctions violation, the police report alleges the network concocted records of shipments of food at preposterous volumes and prices to continue giving Iran access to foreign currency. The police report - which includes transcripts of wiretapped conversations and surveillance photographs - was prepared for prosecutors. Reuters confirmed its authenticity with Ekrem Aydiner, the current chief prosecutor in charge of the case. Turkey's Prime Minister, Tayyip Erdogan, has called the police investigation a foreign-orchestrated plot without legal merit. In recent months, Turkey's judiciary removed several prosecutors from the case. That has raised questions about whether Turkish law enforcement authorities will continue to pursue it. Aydiner said the matter remains under active investigation. In many ways the plot described in the police report resembles a made-for-TV crime series: A cop who is thought to have tipped off tax authorities finds himself transferred to a distant outpost by the Black Sea, a plane that arrives from Ghana carrying 1.5 metric tons of gold with no clear owner, and millions of dollars in payoffs to various officials to block rivals and gain valuable favors such as fast-track Turkish citizenship for members of the purported crime network and their families. The report presents a wealthy young businessman of Iranian descent named Reza Zarrab as the ringleader. Zarrab grew up in Turkey, holds citizenship, resides in a manor on the Bosphorus and goes by the Turkish name Riza Sarraf. He is well known on Istanbul's celebrity circuit, and is married to Turkish pop star Ebru Gundes, who is a judge on a popular television talent show. Following her husband's detention in December - he was released from jail two months later without being charged - she tearfully told viewers, "God willing, I hope these dark days will pass quickly." When Reuters reporters recently visited his residence, they were greeted by about a half-dozen security guards who said he was out of town. His attorney, Seyda Yildirim, later declined to comment. In an interview published on April 19 with Sabah, a Turkish newspaper, Zarrab said, "The trade I do is completely legal." He later said in an interview on Turkish television that he had helped to reduce the country's current account deficit. Ko.Yo / Shutterstock.com A mosque in Shiraz, Iran. The police report states that its investigation found evidence of bribery, fraud and gold smuggling. Although not central to the police investigation, the West's economic sanctions on Iran provide the backdrop of the alleged scheme. As financial sanctions tightened in 2012, both Turkey and Iran had pressing needs: Turkey required oil and gas for its fast-growing economy, while Iran desperately needed hard currency to pay for new automobiles and other foreign imports. Under the sanctions - imposed by Washington and Brussels to contain Iran's nuclear ambitions - Turkey was permitted to purchase oil and gas from its neighbor. But it was required to pay in Turkish lira, a currency that is of limited value for buying goods on international markets. All payments were to be deposited in an Iranian bank account at Turkey's state-controlled Halkbank. In 2012, Turkey purchased from Iran more than $10 billion worth of oil and gas, according to Reuters' calculations based on data from Turkey's energy market regulation board and Turkish officials. One commodity that Iran was permitted to purchase with its money was gold. A veritable Turkish gold rush ensued with bullion shipped to Iran in everything from couriers' rucksacks to airplane cargo holds. Turkish gold exports to Iran exploded from one metric tons in 2011 to 125.8 metric tons in 2012, worth $6.5 billion, according to the Turkish statistical institute. Another 85 metric tons, worth $4.6 billion, were exported that year to the United Arab Emirates, a known transshipment point to Iran. The police report alleges that Zarrab and a network of companies he controlled were running much of the gold trade with Iran, sometimes via Dubai. "It is understood that, to overcome sanctions and move money to Iran, Riza Sarraf used Turkey as a stepping stone," the report states. To keep the business running smoothly, the report alleges, Zarrab's network paid bribes to Zafer Caglayan, Turkey's economy minister; Muammer Guler, the interior minister; Egemen Bagis, the European Union Affairs minister; and Suleyman Aslan, Halkbank's chief executive. All three ministers, who have since either resigned or been dropped from the cabinet, have denied wrongdoing; none have been charged. Caglayan declined to comment; Guler could not be reached for comment. Lawyers for Bagis and Aslan did not return calls seeking comment. Halkbank has denied violating any domestic or international laws. A spokesperson declined to answer questions but did say the bank is not under any investigation by Turkey's police or judiciary. According to the police report, many of the payoffs were allegedly picked up in a building on a row of jewelry dealers near the Grand Bazaar. Police also tracked the shipment of a Swiss watch the network allegedly gave to Caglayan, the economy minister, that cost about $340,000. Bagis, the EU Affairs minister, at one point allegedly received $500,000 cash delivered in a chocolate box, along with a silver plate. In an intercepted phone conversation about the plate, the report quotes Zarrab as telling an associate, "Don't make it too expensive." The report alleges that Aslan, the former head of Halkbank, and Caglayan received a percentage of the Iranian money transfers, resulting in bribes that totaled tens of millions of dollars. In December, police raided Aslan's house and seized $4.5 million stuffed in shoeboxes, according to local media reports. Aslan told police the cash was a charitable donation from various businessmen to build an Islamic school, the media reports said. The police report alleges the bribes bought the network perks such as reduced commissions from Halkbank for money transfers, authorization to drive along highway emergency lanes and assistance in preventing rivals from participating in the lucrative trade. One Istanbul gold and currency trader told Reuters, "I went to the bank about 18 months ago and tried to open an account, saying I wanted to sell goods to Iran and that I was going to pay via Halkbank. But they did not let me. There has been unfair competition in terms of using this bank." The bribes also secured the network police protection, the report alleges. Suspecting at one point that a local police officer had initiated a tax audit of some of Zarrab's companies, the interior minister arranged to have the officer transferred to Zonguldak, a Black Sea coastal town about 200 miles east of Istanbul, the report alleges. According to the report, a wiretap allegedly picked up Guler telling Zarrab that "we have sent him into exile." The network also allegedly received special assistance when, in January 2013, a plane carrying 1.5 metric tons of gold bullion arrived at Istanbul's Ataturk airport from Ghana without proper paperwork. The report cites wiretapped phone calls between Zarrab and Caglayan's office allegedly showing that Caglayan intervened at Zarrab's request to prevent customs officers from seizing the shipment. The cargo was held up for days, but ultimately released. The circumstances surrounding the Ghanaian gold shipment remain murky. An Iranian billionaire businessman named Babak Zanjani, who is accused by the United States and European Union of violating sanctions on Iranian oil, recently posted a statement on the website of his company, Sorinet Group, stating he was the original purchaser of the gold from Ghana. "This type of trade was completely legal," he wrote. Yet Zanjani boasted last year in an interview with Aseman, an Iranian magazine, of violating sanctions. "This is my work - sanctions-busting operations," he was quoted as saying. He is in jail in Tehran on charges of owing the government more than $2.7 billion from oil sales; he denies any wrongdoing. In the website posting, Zanjani said he had met Zarrab "a few times" but that they had not done any business together. Zarrab said in the television interview earlier this month he had met Zanjani twice, but "I am neither friends nor partners with him." Washington closed the gold loophole last July. In the television interview, Zarrab said he stopped trading gold and "shifted to food and medicine," which were still permitted. In a four-month period, he said, that trade totaled about $1.6 billion. But the police report alleges that some of the food shipments never actually took place, but consisted of counterfeit invoices submitted to Halkbank that should have raised plenty of red flags at the bank. The documentation included bills of lading that purportedly showed that cargoes "of 150,000 metric tons were being carried in vessels with a capacity of 5,000 tons," the report alleges. In another case, the report includes an alleged copy of an invoice for a shipment to Iran of about five metric tons of raw brown sugar. The cost? A whopping $250 a pound, more than a hundred times the market rate. The report also quotes from a wiretapped conversation with Zarrab in which an associate allegedly tells him about the food shipment records, "The documents we are giving are wrong. I mean, they are documents that do not exist in reality." Following their investigation, the police staged a series of raids and detained dozens of suspects in December. Later that month, one of the prosecutors on the probe was removed from the case. He accused police of refusing to comply with his orders to detain even more suspects. "Suspects have been allowed to take precautions, flee and tamper with the evidence," the prosecutor, Muammer Akkas, said in a statement to Turkish media. Reached by Reuters this month, he declined to comment. Aydiner, the new chief prosecutor on the case, said the detentions were just a precaution and that no suspects have been formally charged. "Of course, they are still under investigation," he said. Shortly after the December raids, two of the ministers who allegedly accepted bribes - Economy Minister Caglayan and Interior Minister Guler - resigned; Bagis, the EU Affairs minister, was replaced in a cabinet reshuffle. Aslan, the chief executive of Halkbank, left his job in February. He was recently named to the board of directors of a larger, state-owned bank. As part of a preliminary deal struck in November between Western powers and Iran, Tehran promised to scale back its nuclear development program in exchange for the suspension of certain economic sanctions. The deal, which took effect in January and is to last until July, includes allowing Iran to resume some gold trading. But there's no evidence that Turkey is benefiting. Some Istanbul traders say they are too jittery to sell gold to Iran. Gold exports have plummeted. (Additional reporting by Asli Kandemir in Istanbul and Gulsen Solaker in Ankara; Edited by Simon Robinson and Sara Ledwith) FREE AppDownload
NEW YORK (Reuters) - At the heart of Pfizer Inc's &lt;PFE.N&gt; pursuit of British drugmaker AstraZeneca Plc &lt;AZN.L&gt; is a shortage of attractive products in its own research pipeline, aggravated by a recent series of disappointing drug launches, according to some industry analysts and money managers. They view the $100-billion gambit for AstraZeneca as a return by Pfizer to the "mega-mergers" of the previous decade that allowed the U.S. company to benefit from huge cost savings and divert shareholder concern over low returns from its research and development. As recently as last year, Pfizer Chief Executive Ian Read had virtually sworn off major dealmaking, wary of the criticism that huge transactions, such as the $90 billion purchase of Warner-Lambert in 2000, had not improved the company's prospects for innovative products. "Pfizer is doing this from a position of weakness," said Michael Liss, a portfolio manager at American Century Investments who holds Pfizer shares. "If they had enough in their own pipeline, they wouldn't need to buy a big company; they'd be doing smaller collaborations." Liss still believes the deal makes sense because it could create $4 billion in annual cost-savings for Pfizer, knock down its tax rate by rebasing the biggest U.S. drugmaker to Britain, and bring Pfizer potentially lucrative cancer drugs from AstraZeneca that work by stimulating the immune system. "Pfizer's problem is they have a very thin drug pipeline," said John Boris, an analyst with Suntrust Robinson Humphrey. "And this is a very clear admission of that," he said, referring to Pfizer's two rebuffed efforts since January to buy AstraZeneca. Read appeared to head off the criticism on Monday in discussing his efforts to reignite talks with Astra. He told investors that Pfizer had redoubled its efforts to buy AstraZeneca after favorable data from trials of new and experimental company drugs allowed it to act from "a position of strength." But industry watchers questioned that description. Pfizer had hoped to turn a corner on its research when it won regulatory approvals over the past three years for kidney cancer treatment Inlyta and Xalkori for lung cancer after a decade without any significant new drugs. But both have seen weak sales. Two newer treatments that had been deemed potential blockbusters with billions of dollars in sales, Xeljanz for rheumatoid arthritis and Eliquis to prevent blood clots that can cause strokes, have failed to take flight. Experimental breast cancer drug palbociclib, which has been deemed Pfizer's most exciting product in development, is now expected to face stiff competition from more effective and safer drugs in the same class being developed by rivals, Boris said. Pfizer has chased down and swallowed three other major drugmakers in the past 15 years, beginning with its hostile acquisition of Warner Lambert. The deal gave it full ownership of cholesterol fighter Lipitor, which went on to become the world's biggest medicine, and created opportunity for deep cost cuts that propped up earnings for several years. But Pfizer's profits were on the downswing by 2003, after the company failed to come up with new products to replace aging blockbusters. So Pfizer spent $60 billion that year to acquire Pharmacia Corp, counting on thousands of job cuts and other cost savings to get its earnings growing again. When Pfizer's laboratories remained unproductive, and the company was faced with impending generic competition for Lipitor, Pfizer paid $68 billion in 2009 for Wyeth. Morningstar analyst Damien Conover said Pfizer is not facing impending patent expirations on big medicines, with the exception of painkiller Celebrex, so is not desperate for a merger as it was with the Wyeth deal. But Conover said Pfizer needs cost cuts because it will likely generate average annual earnings growth of only 2 percent over the next five years with its existing products, half the average likely growth for other large drugmakers. "They have a few potential blockbusters, but not of the magnitude of Merck &lt;MRK.N&gt; or Bristol-Myers &lt;BMY.N&gt;," Conover said, which have strong immuno-oncology programs. "So the AstraZeneca deal is really about cost cutting, and Pfizer's need to increase growth." Alex Arfaei, an analyst with BMO Capital Markets, said a merger with AstraZeneca would provide Pfizer big advantages, such as slashing its tax rate to the 20 percent range, from its current rate of about 27 percent. Many Pfizer investors are holding onto their shares in the hope the company by 2017 will split off two or more of its three main divisions into separate companies, creating more opportunities for share buybacks and higher Pfizer dividends. One division focuses on vaccines, cancer drugs and consumer products; another on other patent-protected medicines and the third on so-called established products, meaning branded generics mostly targeted for developing countries. Brian Turner, a healthcare analyst for Levin Capital, which holds over 11 million shares of Pfizer, said Read probably thinks the various parts of Pfizer will be more attractive if they include AstraZeneca's assets. "He realizes that he ultimately needs to be smaller," Turner said, "but maybe he thinks because of the Astra assets he could maybe build it up and then break everything down." (Reporting by Ransdell Pierson, additional reporting by Bill Berkrot; Editing by Michele Gershberg and Ken Wills) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersBank of Japan Governor Kuroda gestures as he speaks during a seminar in TokyoTOKYO (Reuters) - Rising prices for budget haircuts and bowls of beef and rice are helping Bank of Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda win over doubters in his own ranks of his ambitious drive to cast off deflation. Sluggish exports and a sales tax increase on April 1 had some board members openly questioning Kuroda, and bureaucrats were quietly game-planning policy options. Now, as early data and anecdotes suggest the recovery in the world's third-biggest economy has not been derailed by the tax hike, investors and other BOJ policymakers are coming around. Central bank officials scouring the streets found higher prices for deflationary staples such as bargain haircuts and "gyudon", bowls of beef strips with onions over rice that are gobbled up by blue- and white-collar workers across the country. Barbers were raising prices more than enough to cover the increase in the sales tax to 8 percent from 5 percent, the mandarins found, and restaurants were also able to raise prices. "If gyudon shops are passing on the higher costs, that tells you something about changes in psychology," said a BOJ official who compared prices at the various beef-bowl restaurant chains. "It's another positive sign for the economy." Another senior official said evidence is mounting that companies have the pricing power to pass on the burden. "That's a relief." ON TRACK Kuroda stunned global markets in April 2013 with an unprecedented flood of yen liquidity, but by year's end markets and economists were looking for more as the blast from the BOJ bazooka and Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's heavy government spending seemed to ebb. The bookish former currency bureaucrat has remained upbeat even in private, insiders say, that his "quantitative and qualitative easing" (QQE) would end 15 years of falling prices by generating 2 percent inflation in two years. "Things are on track, perhaps more than initially expected," said a person familiar with the central bank's thinking, adding that there is "more conviction within the BOJ" on meeting its inflation target. Economists have priced out the chance of additional stimulus at the BOJ's meeting on Wednesday. Instead, the BOJ is set to maintain its stimulus at the current pace and nudge up some of its half-yearly price and growth forecasts. Kuroda said last week that inflation for the fiscal year ended in March likely beat the central bank's 0.7 percent projection. Core consumer prices, the BOJ's key inflation gauge, were falling an annual 0.4 percent when Kuroda eased policy. They rose 1.3 percent last month. Further, April inflation in Tokyo, a bellwether for the nation, hit a 22-year high of 2.7 percent after the tax hike. Prices at 300 supermarkets nationwide are running roughly flat with year-earlier levels after stripping away the tax-hike impact, according to a daily index compiled by Tokyo University Professor Tsutomu Watanabe. And before the tax increase, the jobless rate was down to 3.6 percent, a level Kuroda says is near full employment. Growing labour shortages, notably in construction, add to BOJ expectations that as slack disappears from the economy, wages will rise, fuelling a positive growth-and-price cycle. All of this has brought more unity to the policy board, which had been galvanized into action by Kuroda a year ago but was more recently diverging. Of Kuroda's eight fellow board members, half - academic economists Ryuzo Miyao and Sayuri Shirai, as well as market economists Takahide Kiuchi and Takehiro Sato - had expressed concern about stubbornly weak exports and the tax-hike impact. The dovish Miyao, for example, warned in November that overseas uncertainties left risks to Japan's economy tilted to the downside. This month he said risks were now evenly balanced. "We see a strong chance that upward price pressure will broaden as Japan's economy continues an autonomous and sustainable recovery driven by consumer spending," he said. TOUGH PART JUST BEGUN Kuroda's presentation and confidence has also had an impact. After the BOJ's April 8 decision, the first after the tax rise, he declared, "I don't think there is a need to take additional measures now," his most direct message yet. He may have been trying to quash what the BOJ saw as excessive market expectations for an easing, which were heightening ahead of every meeting, said people close to the central bank. Kuroda's comments hit Japanese stocks and boosted the yen as investors realized the bank was on hold for now. Accentuating the impact, it was the first post-policy review news conference that media were allowed to show live, instead of having to wait until the questions ended to send their reports. Market participants could see in real time Kuroda's smile and hear him answer repeatedly and methodically that Japan was making steady progress toward the inflation target. "Many market players who saw how he speaks for the first time were surprised at how confident he seemed to be," said prominent BOJ watcher Izuru Kato, chief economist at Totan Research. But while Kuroda dampened expectations for an imminent easing, many expect the BOJ will still have to open the monetary spigot further, especially as the economy slows and Abe faces a tough decision on whether to proceed with a planned further increase in the sales tax. Sixteen of 17 economists in a Reuters poll this month predicted the central bank will ease again this year, with July the most favored month. And indeed, Kuroda routinely promises that if the BOJ's assumptions go awry, he will not hesitate to ease again. Miyako Suda, who served on the BOJ board for a decade until 2011, said the BOJ "will probably maintain its bullish price forecasts for as long as possible and keep policy unchanged until it becomes absolutely impossible to continue arguing that its price target can be met." But, she told Reuters, "once he feels something must be done, I think Kuroda will do something quite extraordinary because small steps won't work." Despite the BOJ's efforts so far and the weaker yen, long-term inflation expectations remain stuck around 1 percent. The BOJ argues that underlying price rises and expectations of a sustained recovery will boost expectations to 2 percent and anchor them there, but this is a daunting task untested by any other central bank. The economy has slowed sharply since the "Abenomics" burst in the first half of 2013, the outlook in China and elsewhere is uncertain, Japan's exports continue to disappoint and investors are unlikely to be forgiving. Tokyo stocks are up 65 percent and the yen down 22 percent against the dollar since Abe became the hands-on favorite for prime minister in mid-November 2012. But shares and the currency have been range-bound all year, vulnerable to downward shifts in sentiment. "The first year of QQE was fairly easy," said another person familiar with the BOJ's thinking. "The really tough part has only begun." &lt;^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ GRAPHIC: Japan GDP, yen http://link.reuters.com/wuv82v GRAPHIC: Japan inflation/deflation since 1958 http://link.reuters.com/ber48t GRAPHIC: Japan core inflation, CGPI http://link.reuters.com/fyb64t GRAPHIC: BOJ and Fed asset buying http://link.reuters.com/qyt65s ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^&gt; (Editing by William Mallard and John Mair) FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Sam BeebeEveryone's talking about housing, and today we get a big one. Here's what's coming up, per Calcluated Risk: • At 9:00 AM ET, S&amp;P/Case-Shiller House Price Index for February. Although this is the February report, it is really a 3 month average of December, January and February. The consensus is for a 13.0% year-over-year increase in the Composite 20 index (NSA) for February. The Zillow forecast is for the Composite 20 to increase 12.8% year-over-year, and for prices to increase 0.6% month-to-month seasonally adjusted.• At 10:00 AM, Conference Board's consumer confidence index for April. The consensus is for the index to increase to 83.0 from 82.3. Obviously we'll be covering both LIVE. FREE AppDownload
One of the big stories in the market continues to be the carnage in the erstwhile momentum-stock highfliers. This table from Dan Greenhaus at BTIG (@danBTIG) nicely shows some of the names people are talking about, and how much they've cratered in less than two months. BTIG Just something to keep around for your reference. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Pichi ChuangMen look at the Taipei 101 building from Elephant Mountain in Taipei April 15, 2011. Taiwan's parliament formally approved on Friday a special tax on real estate investments and luxury goods, part of the government's efforts to curb surging prices that threaten an asset price bubble. Good morning! Yesterday US markets had a volatile day, but ultimately made a big comeback. And today the comeback continues, as markets are in the green everywhere you look. US futures are all up to the tune of 0.2 to 0.3%. Germany is rising 0.67%. The UK is up 0.33%. Today we get a look at both Consumer Confidence and Case-Shiller. Then of course, the rest of the week is really stacked with economic data, culminating with the Jobs Report. Today is kind of the calm before the storm. FREE AppDownload
