Wary financial markets are watching the decline in copper, to see if the red metal is acting as a fire alarm for the global economy. With a quiet economic calendar Wednesday, the Treasury's 10-year auction could also take on a higher profile than normal, especially ahead of next week's Fed meeting. Stocks wobbled Tuesday, as concerns swirled that the economy is not growing fast enough, and traders were most worried that China could be stumbling. The Shanghai stock market was higher overnight but U.S. stocks fell with copper, a bellwether on the Chinese economy. Copper slumped to its lowest level in nearly four years, with May futures off 2.5 percent to $2.9520 a pound and now down 8 percent in three sessions. China is responsible for 40 percent of the world's copper imports. Concerns about China are two-pronged. A recent report showed that February exports—a major engine for its economy—fell 18.1 percent from a year earlier. There are also worries about the country's financial system, and those concerns intensified when Shanghai Chaori Solar defaulted on its debt Friday, the first ever in China. (Read more: China, copper and the U.S. stock market) Traders circulated reports Tuesday that trading in another solar company, Baoding Tianwei Baobian Electric's stocks and bonds was suspended after it reported losses. Since copper is used for collateral for bank loans, the concern is that more of the metal could flood the market if there are further defaults. "There's a reasonable amount of concern out there about the general direction of the global economy," said Ian Lyngen, senior Treasury strategist at CRT Capital. Events in Ukraine were also a concern, sending buyers into gold, as investors await the Sunday vote in Crimea on whether to join Russia and abandon Ukraine. Bond yields were lower Tuesday, but the three-year edged higher. The Treasury's $30 billion three-year note auction was lackluster, and Lyngen expects 10-year yields to rise into the 1 p.m. ET auction of $21 billion in 10-year notes. (Read more: What could heat up gold prices this week) The 10-year was yielding 2.77 percent in late trading Tuesday. The Dow fell 67 points to 16,351, and the S&amp;P 500 fell 9 to 1,867. Markets have been watching every bit of economic data, in an attempt to glean whether the string of weaker data are the result of unusually severe winter weather or something else. Every bit of employment-related data are even more scrutinized because of the potential impact on the Fed's decision to cut back on its bond-buying program. The Fed meets next week, with Fed Chair Janet Yellen presiding for the first time and conducting the post-meeting press briefing. "Is anyone worried about the Fed? No, they're going to taper," said Lyngen. (Read more: Stock market in 'euphoria mode': Citi strategist)  There are a few reports for markets to watch Wednesday. There are mortgage applications at 7 a.m. and oil inventories at 10:30 a.m. There is a release on the federal budget at 2 p.m. "You do have auctions. That's what's driving the week, and the 10-year tends to be the most important of the week, and that will probably drive things tomorrow," said Ward McCarthy, chief financial economist at Jefferies. "The (bond) market has been trading well so far this week, which makes it look like it's going to be difficult to bid on this baby. We continue to see buying." McCarthy said a lot of big bond market investors were caught short. "There are a lot of real money accounts that are gradually trying to get their positions a bit more balanced," he said. Several earnings releases are also Wednesday expected from Express, Krispy Kreme, Vail Resorts and Williams-Sonoma. —By CNBC's Patti Domm. Follow her on Twitter @pattidomm. FREE AppDownload
The Nikkei is down 2.1% to 14,902, as a strong yen weighed on stocks, and on profit taking.  "The Nikkei is down 2% as risk aversion radiates and propagates from China to Asia," Societe Generale's Sebastien Galy wrote in an email to clients. Here's a look at the stunning sell-off: Yahoo Finance Meanwhile, copper continues to plunge and it's a sea of red in Asia. Hong Kong's Hang Seng is down 1.5%. China's Shanghai Composite is down 0.3%. Australia's S&amp;P/ASX 200 is down 1.1% China already experienced its first domestic bond default last week, and now markets are concerned that electrical equipment and solar panel maker, Baoding Tianwei Baobian Electric, will be the next domino to fall. FREE AppDownload
Copper prices — which are often seen as a proxy for the Chinese economy, if not the entire global economy — have been getting crushed. And they're in full meltdown mode tonight. Via Deirdre Wang Morris, here's the chart of Shanghai Copper prices limit down. @deeCNBC FREE AppDownload
 REUTERS/Stephen Lam Here was the score after Tesla Motors spent more than a year attempting to establish a direct sales operation in New Jersey: 0 to 696,749.  It was a blowout.  The luxe electric car company was outraged Tuesday when the The New Jersey Motor Vehicle Commission approved a proposal banning auto manufacturers from selling cars directly to consumers. In a blog post and series of tweets Tesla blamed the move on bad faith negotiating by the administration of Gov. Chris Christie and "attacks" from the New Jersey Coalition of Automotive Retailers. However, if Tesla was indeed under attack, it looks like the company didn't make any attempt to fight back against the car dealers' lobby on a crucial political front -- the company didn't give any money to local politicians.  Campaign finance records show, the New Jersey Coalition of Automotive Retailers' political action committee, CAR PAC, has made hundreds of political donations as the group lobbied on behalf of car dealers in the Garden State. In contrast, records show no donations to any politicians in New Jersey coming from Tesla, its employees, or the company's co-founder and CEO Elon Musk. According to the National Institute of Money In Politics, the New Jersey Coalition of Automotive Retailers and its employees gave a grand total of $696,749 to politicians and campaign committees in the Garden State from 2003 through 2009. This included contributions to both Democratic and Republican officials and organizations in both houses of the Legislature. Beneficiaries of CAR PAC's largesse included the current Democratic president of the state senate, Stephen Sweeney, the state senate's current Republican minority leader, Thomas Kean Jr., and the Democratic majority leader of the New Jersey General Assembly. The New Jersey Coalition of Automotive Retailers did not immediately respond to a request for comment from Business Insider. However, one of the organization's websites makes clear influencing the Legislature is a core part of its mission.  "A major responsibility of NJ CAR is to represent New Jersey’s automotive retailers in legislative matters," the site says. "The Coalition has been active at every session of the New Jersey Legislature in defending the industry against adverse legislation, as well as initiating and supporting legislation favorable to franchised New Jersey new car and truck retailers." Tesla may have engaged in its own lobbying efforts, but it doesn't seem like the company put any financial muscle behind them.  After Tesla blasted the governor's office, Christie administration spokesman Kevin Roberts sent a statement to Business Insider arguing Tesla was told as soon as it set up shop in the Garden State that it "would need to engage the Legislature on a bill to establish their new direct-sales operations under New Jersey law."  If the way to win hearts and minds in the Legislature was paved with gold, Tesla let the car dealer's lobby push them off the road.  FREE AppDownload
Bond yields have fallen this year, but they began to rebound in the United States in the latest week as the glass-half-empty bond market realized the all-time high stock market may have it right. But this was not the case in most of Europe. The ongoing decline in European government bond yields continued last week and is striking when considering how fast they were rising two years ago. What a difference a couple of years can make. The 10-year Italian and Spanish bond yields dropped to near all-time lows at the end of last week, while Greece’s 10-year—once over 35%—fell below 7% [Figure 1]. Problem solved? Not exactly. LPL Financial The countries once derided in the financial press for overspending PIIGS (Portugal, Italy, Ireland, Greece, and Spain) and thought deserving of their double-digit borrowing rates, could now be believed to be among the GAUDS (Germany, Austria, United Kingdom, Denmark, and Switzerland) and their low single-digit yields. As we have highlighted several times over the past two years, bond yields have receded as the risk of financial crisis has passed. But the situation in Europe is slowly transforming into an economic crisis in the form of a potential lengthy stagnation. We had anticipated Europe could shake off this risk and produce better growth this year—and it still may—but the risk of a setback rose last week. The risk can best be seen in prices. Central bankers around the world, including the U.S. Federal Reserve (Fed), the European Central Bank (ECB), and the Bank of Japan (BOJ), have a clearly stated goal of 2% inflation, to motivate spending and lift wages while leaving a buffer above zero when growth inevitably slows again. While the inflation rates in the United States and Japan are just below that and rising, the pace of inflation in the Eurozone has been under 1% since October 2013 and is still decelerating. Last week, rather than making a move at its meeting to cut rates or take other actions, the ECB took a gamble that the economic momentum in the Eurozone may be self-sustaining enough to turn prices higher on its own. The status quo announcement was accompanied by the release of the ECB’s forecast for inflation in the coming years, showing it expects inflation to remain below 2% through 2016. Not only has the ECB refrained from any new stimulus, it has been outright shrinking the bonds on its balance sheet for over a year now, in contrast to the Fed, which is just starting to slow the growth in the bonds on its balance sheet by tapering its pace of bond buying [Figure 2]. LPL Financial The problem for Europe is an elevated risk of economic stagnation, a rise in the value of the euro hurting exports, and very low rates of inflation making it very hard for countries to address their debt and pension problems. Despite years of austerity in the form of tax hikes and spending cuts, Eurozone government debt-to-GDP (gross domestic product) has risen to a record 93%, up 4% from a year ago, according to Eurostat, the official statistics office of the European Union (EU). Higher inflation is necessary for the Eurozone to avoid what Japan has experienced — a high debt and pension burden coupled with flat inflation and economic growth for much of the past two decades. We remain hopeful that in 2014 Europe can overcome its weaknesses and have a better chance for returns competitive with U.S. markets than last year. Here are the catalysts we are looking for to turn more positive on European stocks: Despite inflation being in the ECB’s “danger zone” and rising debt burdens, the ECB made a bet last week that the Eurozone economy is picking up fast enough to avoid the need for any further stimulus. We are not so sure. Until some of the above catalysts emerge, the risks to stocks in Europe may outweigh the rewards. LPL Financial This article originally appeared at LPL Financial.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Robert Johnson for Business InsiderEarlier today, we saw a huge surge in the share price of fuel cell-related companies, Plug Power most prominent among them, on an apparent run-up in revenues in the long-suffering space. But just before 1 p.m., the rally collapsed in the blink of an eye. Plug Power closed down 41%. One reason for the sell-off could be a report issued by Citron Research, an influential online stock commentary website. In an unsigned note, the firm called PLUG a "casino stock" and suggested it would return to its one-time trading price of $0.50. They write: A casino stock... is the lowest form of speculative moonshot. A casino stock can trade twice its outstanding shares in a single day, while turning over its entire float on people gambling that they can find a buyer at a higher price … Who really cares about anything else, right? The recent volume and share price surge in Plug Power (NASDAQ:PLUG) demonstrates how Wall Street treats this stock: nothing more than a casino.  Among the problems Citron says its found: Citron concludes: "this business shows no signs of improvement, only the looming end of government subsidies. Does anyone ever really end up a winner at a casino???" Plug Power was down 4% in after-hours trading, while Ballard was off 1%. FREE AppDownload
DoubleLine FundsDoubleLine Funds' Jeff Gundlach doesn't expect the Federal Reserve to unwind its quantitative easing (QE) program without doing some damage to the markets and the economy. But if the Fed can pull it off, he thinks it could go down as one of the greatest discoveries of our time. He said it would be likened to Samuel Morse's telegraph, which he argued was one of the most important inventions of all-time. ["What hath God wrought?" was the first message sent out by Morse on his telegraph.] In a new presentation, Gundlach reminded us that QE has made the Fed by far the largest single holder of U.S. debt in the world. It's also currently responsible for 70% of the purchases of Treasury and agency securities. It'll be a little while before we know if the QE-unwind dodged all of the downside risks. Like most, Gundlach believes the Fed will continue to actively keep rates low even as it tapers its current QE purchases. There are, however, signs that QE hasn't been as successful as hoped. GDP growth continues to be low in the U.S. Real total household wealth has stagnated and real median household income has actually been declining. Meanwhile, the income share of the top 5% continues to grow, reflecting the worsening inequality problem in the America. Gundlach offered his perspectives along with a series of charts and diagrams that support his thesis. He opened with four slides ominously forecasting ballooning deficits thanks to onerous entitlement spending. What follows are the first three sections of Gundlach's presentation. Anyone serious about the markets and the economy should spend a few minutes with this.
Via FactsAboutHerbalife.comHedge fund manager Bill Ackman gave another presentation on Herbalife—a multi-level marketing company that he's betting $1 billion will go under.  Ackman, who runs Pershing Square Capital, declared over a year ago that he's shorting Herbalife because he believes the company operates as a "pyramid scheme."  Herbalife has publicly denied Ackman's allegations.  So far, the short hasn't played out in his favor either. He's lost an estimated $500 million in mark-to-market losses.  His latest presentation focuses on Herbalife's business practices in China. In short, Ackman believes that the nutrition company is violating Chinese direct-selling laws.  Specifically, Pershing Square alleges that Herbalife violates Chinese laws by doing the following:  We've included his slidedeck. This time it was only 56 slides compared with his famous 342-slide presentation when he first unveiled his short thesis.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS / Jessica RinaldiJeffrey GundlachDoubleLine Funds' Jeffrey Gundlach just wrapped up his latest webcast for investors. Titled "What Hath QE Wrought?", Gundlach's presentation examined what has happened in the markets and the economy since the Federal Reserve began its massive asset-purchase program, aka quantitative easing (QE). The biggest beneficiaries seem to be the wealthy-class. Gundlach doesn't expected the unwinding of QE to go totally smoothly. But if they're are able to pull off the unwind, QE could go down as one of the great discoveries like the telegraph. [The first message sent out by Samuel Morse and his telegraph was "What hath God wrought." Gundlach noted that the telegraph was a precursor to everything from newspapers to Twitter.] For now, Gundlach expects rates to stay low with the 10-year Treasury yield getting down to around 2.5% this year. And when they do rise, how will they rise? "First slowly, then quickly," he said channelling Hemingway. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Dani Cardona FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Why Investors Need To Consider Dividend Growth Stocks (The Alliance Bernstein Blog)  Investors searching for yield recently turned to fixed income-like stocks after yields collapsed. Frank Caruso at Alliance Bernstein suggests that investors look at companies with dividend growth potential. Despite slower profit growth last year, dividend payouts continued to rise. U.S. companies have record cash positions and at the end of last year were only paying out a third of their earnings as dividends. That means there's room for these dividend payouts to rise.  So, Caruso suggests investors keep an eye out for stocks with a low payout ratio. "A close look at the balance sheet can help gauge a company’s capacity to finance expansion and to evaluate the percentage of normal cash flow being paid out as dividend," Caruso writes. "The goal is to identify healthy companies that are capable of sustaining macro-economic shocks and withstanding competitive threats." A Portfolio Manager With A Stellar 2013 Performance Explains His Outlook For The Bond Market (Barron's)  Jim Dondero, co-founder of Highland Capital Management, told Barron's that he thinks "the party is definitely slowing down as far as fixed income … but it is not ending." As the Fed has begun to taper its monthly asset purchase program and as interest rates are expected to rise, Dondero said they've been "positioned more toward floating-rate assets than fixed-rate assets for the last four or five years." "In our fixed-rate bond portfolios, we keep them short: five-to seven-year maturities and less," said Dondero. "The intention of floating-rate instruments is for the interest rate to reset on a regular basis." The Highland Global Allocation Fund posted a 30% return last year. The SEC Will Review Broker Bonus Disclosure Plan (Reuters) The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) sent its 351-page proposal requiring brokers to disclose their bonuses to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The idea is that disclosing a bonus when switching firms would make clients aware of any potential conflict of interest. Brokers would not have to disclose the exact amount, but they would have to disclose the range. They would also have to disclose it during their "first individualized contact" with a former client. Some worry that this is just a way to make poaching harder. Advisors Need To Steer Their Clients Away From Emotional Investing (The Wall Street Journal) Emotional investing is a common weakness among investors. It's an advisor's job to keep them on track with their asset allocation strategy during downturns and in up markets. "Often, clients are eager to change the structure of their portfolio because it just isn't clear to them that each assets has a function," writes Abigail Gunderson of Houston-based Tanglewood Wealth Management in a WSJ column. "For example, gold was a big loser last year, and clients may not appreciate its value as a non-correlated asset. Instead, they see a slumping commodity tying up money that could be put to better use in the S&amp;P." It's important for advisors to go over the role that each asset class plays in a portfolio.  Investors Need To Be Wary Of Risks Associated With Bitcoin (FINRA) The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) is warning investors about the risk of Bitcoin in a new alert called Bitcoin: More than a Bit Risky. "Speculators drawn to Bitcoin trading should understand that Bitcoin prices have fluctuated widely, and wildly, almost from the currency's inception," Gerri Walsh, FINRA's senior vice president for Investor Education said in a press release. "Investors looking to get in on the ground floor of a Bitcoin-related company should realize that fraudsters may see the latest digital currency trend as a chance to steal their money through old-fashioned fraud." FREE AppDownload
Cathal McNaughton/ReutersMore emerging-market turmoil is coming in 2015, according to a recent note from Bank of America/Merrill Lynch research. And one likely source of short-term instability in particular is largely underappreciated: a huge male youth boom. There’s a close relationship between surging populations of young men and “revolutions, wars and upheavals,” argue Ajay Kapur, Ritesh Samadhiya, and Umesha de Silva. The Bank of America/Merrill Lynch analysts cite “civil war in medieval Portugal (1384), the English Revolution (1642-51), the Spanish conquistadores ravaging Latin America ... the French Revolution of 1789, and the emergence of Nazism in the 1920s in Germany.” Bank of America/Merrill Lynch Similar problems may be developing in emerging markets right now. While the analysts point out that the ratio of young men to older men has peaked in most emerging markets—generally a good sign for political stability—the raw number of males aged 15-29 is “massive.” Bank of America/Merrill Lynch When there aren’t enough jobs to employ the supply of young men, that can galvanize conflict, argue the analysts—as can stagflation, rising income inequality, unaffordable property, and other problems facing emerging markets. Particularly if they’re unmarried, these young men have less to lose by banding together and committing crimes, unrest, or violence. The latter point is a particular concern in China and India, where a cultural preference for boy children has led to sex selection of infants that now means there are tens of millions more young men than young women. Jiang Quanbao, a professor at Xi’an Jiaotong University and a leading Chinese demographer, found that the number of marriageable Chinese males has been increasing more rapidly since 2010. The spread between males and females in the 20-49 age bracket will blow past 20 million in 2015. India currently has about 17 million more young men than women.  Here’s China: United Nations Population Fund  And India: United Nations Population Fund The more angry young men there are to fight over opportunities and marriageable women, the worse off equity markets tend to be, as Kapur and Samadhiya have argued in the past. A better outcome would be to have these young men “become middle-aged with a larger risk appetite and the resources to satisfy it.” Much harder done than said, though. Valerie Hudson and Andrea Den Boer, authors of Bare Branches: The Security Implications of Asia’s Surplus Male Population, say that a common government response is simply increased authoritarianism. Their conclusions have implications that go well beyond emerging-market stock markets. ”At some point, governments consider how they can export their problem, either by encouraging emigration of young adult men or harnessing their energies in martial adventures abroad,” they wrote in The Washington Post in 2004. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kim Kyung-HoonAn ethnic minority woman walks past security officers during the third plenary session of National People's Congress (NPC) in Beijing, March 10, 2014. Stocks fell. Scoreboard: S&amp;P500: 1,867.65, -9.52, -0.51%   Dow: 16,351.12, -67.56, -0.41%  Nasdaq: 4,307.19, -27.26, -0.63% And now the top stories: Tesla shares closed down about 2% as New Jersey approved a proposal banning auto manufacturers from selling cars directly to consumers, according to CNBC. The move was a setback for the luxe electric car company Tesla Motors, which wants to sell its cars directly without working with separate dealers.  After an early-morning surge, shares of fuel cell providers including Plug Power plummeted back to its pre-Monday trading level of about $6. Citron Research issued a report calling PLUG a "casino stock." Commodities including crude and copper fell big on a supply survey for the former and concerns about China for the latter. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac fell hard after two senators released a plan that would phase out the government-sponsored entities. McDonald's gained 3.8% after the burger meisters' CFO raised the prospect of cutting costs and borrowing more cash to return to investors. Citi said growth in Russia would slow to 1% from 2.6%. "We downgrade GDP growth on heightened uncertainty," the firm commented in a note. "The rising tensions in Ukraine make for a very challenging backdrop to the Russian economy, creating substantial downside risks to economic performance. The combination of more subdued investment and consumption spending related to heightened uncertainty, and tighter monetary policy." Men's Wearhouse bought Jos. A. Bank for $1.8 billion.   Job openings climbed less than expected. The hire rate was unchanged. Weather hit sales and inventories. DON'T MISS: A Whole New Inflationary Threat Is On The Horizon » FREE AppDownload
This Great Graphic was posted on Business Insider by Matthew Boesler. He got it from Nomura, who drew BIS and IMF data. It looks the mix of foreign currency bonds. issued offshore, (red) local currency bonds, issued on shore (gray) and cross-border loans (blue). Nomura, Bloomberg, BIS, IMFChart 2: Hard currency external debt in emerging markets as a percentage of GDP. Note: Offshore issuance is the total of bonds issued by subsidiaries incorporated in a country different from the firm's primary location of business. Figures are based on amount outstanding, which will account for debt restructuring. Sample excludes Singapore and Hungary which have outsized cross-border loan exposure. Off-shore bonds are not picked up in the country-level balance of payments and capital account figures. The traditional national accounts are more interested in residency of the issuance not the nationality of the issuer. Nomura estimates that since 2010, corporations based in emerging markets have issued about $400 billion of offshore debt, or about 40% of their total issuance. The bulk is thought to be denominated in dollars. The bonds issued abroad present a potential currency mismatch and need to be assessed on a company-by-company basis, but a relatively large amount of foreign currency borrowing is a potential risk that is often not appreciated when looking at national accounts. Russia has the highest amount of hard currency debt at about 12% of GDP. In Russia's case, this may sound more threatening than it actually is. Consider a company that exports oil, gas, or industrial metals. Its revenue is likely to be largely in dollars. Dollar income could be matched with a dollar-denominated bond. Other companies may not have achieved such a natural offset, but borrowed in dollars because it was cheaper. Such companies may be more exposed to adverse local currency movements. As the local currency falls, such as the Russian rouble, the foreign debt increases, lifting overall debt as a percentage of assets. This lower chart was tweeted by Niall  O'Connor, which he got from UBS. It shows that in  several emerging markets, the external debt as a percentage of GDP is lower than 1996. However, the takeaway might not be so benign as suggesting there is less risk of widespread currency mismatches. UBS First, only half of the eight countries selected show improvement (Thailand, Indonesia, Philippines and Mexico) and there are some considerations that suggest more than meets the eye. For example, 1996 was the eve of the 1997-1998 Asian financial crisis. External debt in Asia was near a peak. Mexico, for its part, was just getting out of its Tequila crisis. Second, some countries have actually more external debt than previously. The chart shows this is true for South Africa and, to a lesser extent, Turkey. Third, even with small improvement, 20% external debt to GDP can still be problematic. It is also important to understand the mix between public and private sector foreign debt. It depends on the provisions, including whether hedging instruments are used and central currency reserves. Risk is also a function of how much of the external debt is short-term and how much is long-term. FREE AppDownload
Simply put, Russia felt threatened and for good reason.  The democratic coup in the Ukraine threatened a potentially strategic loss for Russia.  For months, it had been using both carrot and stick to pressure Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia from shifting more to the EU.  Reports indicate that Putin had drawn his own line on Ukraine and made it clear to the EU and US that Russia would not accept a Ukraine in unfriendly hands.   Yanukovych was brought to heel and at the last minute embarrassed and frustrated the EU (and by extension, the US) and struck a deal with Russia.   A democratic coup toppled Yanukovych, and there are reasons to suspect that Europe and/or the US may have help facilitate the political uprising.  Among the first acts, the new government abolished Russian as the second official language.   There was a realistic fear (on the part of Russia) that the new government would more to retract the  2010 agreement that arguably was struck under duress, to renew and extend the Russia's lease on the Sevastopol naval base.  The lease, first struck by Yeltsin was to expire in 2017.   Fisticuffs broke out in the Ukrainian parliament over the issue that eventually led to a 25-year extension of the lease.  The annexation of Crimea will make this issue moot, though at a cost.  Prior to the annexation, Putin claims the mantel of the status quo power and forces the US and Europe to be the revisionists.  Annexation puts the shoe on the other foot.  It is a less defendable position in legal and diplomatic terms.    Leaving aside potential Western military options, such as resuming the ballistic missile defense programs, moving NATO troops to Ukraine's western border,  and even sending new weapons to Ukraine, there will likely be economic consequences.   The consequences we have in mind are not sanctions by government, but punishment by impersonal market forces.  Ironically, despite some claims that the US military buildup under Reagan led to the bankruptcy of the Soviet Union, arguably more robust analysis would give a more decisive role to the collapse in oil prices in the mid-1980s (e.g., WTI fell below $10 a barrel).  With the exception of Singapore and Hungary, Russia has the highest amount of foreign currency debt at about 12% of GDP.   Ruble depreciation boosts the cost of servicing the debt, some of which is in corporate, not government hands.  The dollar rose 8.25% against the dollar from the start of the year through early February.  It has gained another 7% since then.  It is the second worse performing currency against the dollar this year, behind the Argentine peso.  The currency depreciation, in the context of political and economic uncertainty, has seen Russian yields soar.  The rouble denominated 10-year yield has risen more than 100 bp, thus far this year, to 8.85%, eclipsing the yield of South Africa.   The dollar denominated bond yield has risen 55 bp to 5.11%.  The cost of insuring  Russian (rouble) exposure via the credit default swap market has risen about 50% this year to more than 230 basis points.  This puts it within spitting distance of Turkey (233 bp), and Hungary (242 bp) and Croatia (318 bp).  Russian equities are among the worst performing equity markets in the world so far this year.  MICEX is off 13% so far this year, with a 17% slide since February 18.    Even before the recent developments, capital outflows frustrated Russian officials.  Outflows have typically exceeded forecasts by the central bank and government.  Last year, central bank forecast $10 bln of outflows.  Figures released in mid-January showed that the capital outflows were six times greater.  At the same time, the current account surplus was more than halved to $33 bln.  Putin, who claims to be a student of history, may be repeating the some of the same mistakes of the Soviet Union with  an apparent disregard of market forces.  Poor domestic investment opportunities, high inflation and high cost of capital weigh on growth.  Last year, Russia recorded growth of a 1.3%, the lowest since 2009 and well below the government's target of 5%.  Russia has accumulated a stockpile of foreign currency reserves.  However, after peaking in 2011, near $544 bln, they have been trending lower, especially since the end of 2012.  They stood just below $495 bln at the end of February.  Reports of recent intervention warn of a further drawdown in reserves.    At the same time, its current account surplus is trending lower, and last years was the smallest in a decade.    Russia is more integrated into the world economy that the Soviet Union ever was.  This is a source of non-statist pressure on Russia.  A decline in oil prices would be particularly helpful in this regard.  There are calls for the US to relax export restrictions on crude oil and natural gas.   Such efforts may prove more important symbolically than substantively as it would take a few years to deliver LNG.  Despite the increase in US output, the world's largest economy is still importing some 5.5 mln barrel of oil a day.  Read more posts on Marc to Market » FREE AppDownload
Screenshot from NetflixThe New Jersey Motor Vehicle Commission approved a proposal banning auto manufacturers from selling cars directly to consumers. The move was a setback for the luxe electric car company Tesla Motors, which wants to sell its cars directly without working with separate dealers. A spokesperson for the Commission said the new regulations would take effect April 1. They referred all further questions about the matter to the office of New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie. Tesla shares are off about 2.5%. On Tuesday, Tesla launched a preemptive strike against the proposal and accused the Christie administration of having acted in bad faith. In a blog post on the company site and series of tweets from its official account, Tesla said it had been negotiating with officials in New Jersey to be allowed to directly sell its cars there in the face of "attacks" from the New Jersey Coalition of Automotive Retailers. Tesla argued the governor's office promised to handle the question of allowing direct auto sales in New Jersey "through a fair process in the Legislature" and instead "decided to go outside the legislative process by expediting a rule proposal that would completely change the law." Tesla MotorsThe company also encouraged supporters to protest the Commission's meeting on the proposal Tuesday afternoon. Tesla currently operates two stores in New Jersey including one in the Short Hills mall (pictured at left). Prior to the meeting, Christie administration spokesman Kevin Roberts responded to Tesla's attack with a statement sent to Business Insider saying it was the company, not the governor's office, that was attempting to bypass normal procedures. Tesla Vice President of Business Development Diarmuid O’Connell subsequently countered with his own statement to Business Insider disputing the Christie administration's assertion Tesla was aware the governor's office believed the company "would need to engage the Legislature on a bill to establish their new direct-sales operations under New Jersey law" since negotiations on the issue began. "The statute in New Jersey plainly allows Tesla to be licensed to sell cars there. Indeed, the Motor Vehicle Commission has licensed Tesla under that statute ever since October 2012, and any suggestion that Tesla was told 'since the beginning' about any problem with its ability to be licensed there is false," O’Connell said. "The only thing that has changed is the Christie Administration’s sudden decision to go around the Legislature in an attempt to enact a rule that the statute doesn’t permit. Worse, it has done so without any reasonable notice or even a public hearing." CNBC first reported on the outcome of the meeting. Neither Christie's office nor Tesla immediately responded to a request for comment about the reported result of the meeting.  This post was updated at 3:46 PM with confirmation the proposal was approved.    FREE AppDownload
Shares of mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are cratering right now. Fannie is down 40% and Freddie is down 38% after U.S. lawmakers released a plan for reforming the government-operated entities. These stocks have been favorites of hedge fund managers as of late, with some investors hoping the stock will eventually start to return dividends to shareholders instead of the U.S. Treasury.  Earlier today, the Senate Banking Committee edged closer toward a bipartisan deal to overhaul both entities, which were seized by the government during the housing crisis. Here's Fannie Mae: Yahoo Finance FREE AppDownload
Plug Power shares are down 34% after surging earlier this morning. Ballard, which supplies Plug Power with fuel cells, is down 20%. FuelCell Energy is down 17%. We explained why fuel cell shares had recently been lifted — demand seemed to be picking up for a number of reasons. But the shares have also been subject to heavy short interest, according to Karl Loomes, a market analyst at SunGard’s Astec Analytics. Chart: FREE AppDownload
APPresident Barack Obama is headed to New York City Tuesday night for a fundraiser at the Manhattan home of Blackstone Group president and COO Hamilton "Tony" James. A Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee official confirmed to Business Insider that the event will be taking place at "the home of Tony and Amie James." The official said the proceeds will benefit the DSCC and tickets cost $2,400. James raised money for President Obama in 2012 while Blackstone Chairman Stephen Schwarzmann fundraised for Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney. At a fundraiser at James' home in May 2012, Obama, who spent much of the election attacking Romney for his background in private equity, assured attendees he believed America benefits from the "freedom of free enterprise." He also argued Democrats' focus on social programs is actually better for business than the tax cuts pushed by conservatives. "There is a theory that that, somehow, is going to unleash the kind of growth that we imagine for this country," Obama said of cutting taxes. "My argument is, is that we tried it and it doesn’t work. It’s not good for the markets. It’s not good for business. It’s not good for consumers. It’s not good for our kids. It’s not good for our future." In addition to Obama, tonight's fundraiser will be attended by New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio and DSCC Chairman Michael Bennett. At a press conference Tuesday, de Blasio joked that he would be the "token non-wealthy person" at the event. FREE AppDownload
Crude dipped below $100 for the first time in nearly a month on an expected stocks build. Analysts polled by Platts say the EIA will announce tomorrow that supplies increased up by 2.3 million barrels, compared with a build of just 0.1 million barrels last week. This week, oil has declined nearly 3%. Commodities across the board have also been flagging of late in line with the ongoing slow down in China. Copper is down more than 4%, while platinum is off more than 1%.  Here's the chart for crude: FinViz   FREE AppDownload
In fact, Reuters reports that in 2009 there are 7.8 million millionaires in the United States. That’s a lot of people and the odds are one or two of them are living near you. Heck, one of them might even be your neighbor. In fact, the odds are very good that it is your neighbor. But, Len, you don’t know my neighbor.  That guy doesn’t look anything like a millionaire. Well, guess what? A millionaire who is truly financially savvy won't be easily recognizable.  1. He always spends less than he earns.  In fact his mantra is, over the long run, you’re better off if you strive to be anonymously rich rather than deceptively poor. 2. He knows that patience is a virtue. The odds are you won’t become a millionaire overnight.  If you’re like him, your wealth will be accumulated gradually by diligently saving your money over multiple decades. 3.  When you go to his modest three-bed two-bath house, you’re going to be drinking Folgers instead of Starbucks.  And if you need a lift, well, you’re going to get a ride in his ten-year-old economy sedan.  And if you think that makes him cheap, ask him if he cares.  (He doesn’t.) 4. He pays off his credit cards in full every month.  He’s smart enough to understand that if he can’t afford to pay cash for something, then he can’t afford it. 5. He realized early on that money does not buy happiness.  If you’re looking for nirvana, you need to focus on attaining financial freedom. 6. He never forgets that financial freedom is a state of mind that comes from being debt free.  Best of all, it can be attained regardless of your income level. 7. He knows that getting a second job not only increases the size of your bank account quicker but it also keeps you busy – and being busy makes it difficult to spend what you already have. 8. He understands that money is like a toddler; it is incapable of managing itself.  After all, you can’t expect your money to grow and mature as it should without some form of credible money management. 9. He’s a big believer in paying yourself first. Paying yourself first is an essential tenet of personal finance and a great way to build your savings and instill financial discipline. 10. Although it’s possible to get rich if you spend your life making a living doing something you don’t enjoy, he wonders why you do.  Life is too short. 11.  He knows that failing to plan is the same as planning to fail.  He also knows that the few millionaires that reached that milestone without a plan got there only because of dumb luck.   It’s not enough to simply declare that you want to be financially free. 12. When it came time to set his savings goals, he wasn’t afraid to think big.  Financial success demands that you have a vision that is significantly larger than you can currently deliver upon. 13. Over time, he found out that hard work can often help make up for a lot of financial mistakes – and you will make financial mistakes. 14. He realizes that stuff happens, that’s why you’re a fool if you don’t insure yourself against risk. Remember that the potential for bankruptcy is always just around the corner and can be triggered from multiple sources: the death of the family’s key bread winner, divorce, or disability that leads to a loss of work. 15. He understands that time is an ally of the young.  He was fortunate enough to begin saving in his twenties so he could take maximum advantage of the power of compounding interest on his nest egg. 16. He knows that you can’t spend what you don’t see.  You should use automatic paycheck deductions to build up your retirement and other savings accounts.  As your salary increases you can painlessly increase the size of those deductions. 17. Even though he has a job that he loves, he doesn’t have to work anymore because everything he owns is paid for – and has been for years. 18. He’s not impressed that you drive an over-priced luxury car and live in a McMansion that’s two sizes too big for your family of four. 19. After six months of asking, he finally quit waiting for you to return his pruning shears.  He broke down and bought himself a new pair last month.  There’s no hard feelings though; he can afford it. So that’s it.  Now you know what your millionaire neighbor won’t tell you.   FREE AppDownload
In fact, Reuters reports that in 2009 there are 7.8 million millionaires in the United States. That’s a lot of people and the odds are one or two of them are living near you. Heck, one of them might even be your neighbor. In fact, the odds are very good that it is your neighbor. But, Len, you don’t know my neighbor.  That guy doesn’t look anything like a millionaire. Well, guess what? A millionaire who is truly financially savvy won't be easily recognizable.  1. He always spends less than he earns.  In fact his mantra is, over the long run, you’re better off if you strive to be anonymously rich rather than deceptively poor. 2. He knows that patience is a virtue. The odds are you won’t become a millionaire overnight.  If you’re like him, your wealth will be accumulated gradually by diligently saving your money over multiple decades. 3.  When you go to his modest three-bed two-bath house, you’re going to be drinking Folgers instead of Starbucks.  And if you need a lift, well, you’re going to get a ride in his ten-year-old economy sedan.  And if you think that makes him cheap, ask him if he cares.  (He doesn’t.) 4. He pays off his credit cards in full every month.  He’s smart enough to understand that if he can’t afford to pay cash for something, then he can’t afford it. 5. He realized early on that money does not buy happiness.  If you’re looking for nirvana, you need to focus on attaining financial freedom. 6. He never forgets that financial freedom is a state of mind that comes from being debt free.  Best of all, it can be attained regardless of your income level. 7. He knows that getting a second job not only increases the size of your bank account quicker but it also keeps you busy – and being busy makes it difficult to spend what you already have. 8. He understands that money is like a toddler; it is incapable of managing itself.  After all, you can’t expect your money to grow and mature as it should without some form of credible money management. 9. He’s a big believer in paying yourself first. Paying yourself first is an essential tenet of personal finance and a great way to build your savings and instill financial discipline. 10. Although it’s possible to get rich if you spend your life making a living doing something you don’t enjoy, he wonders why you do.  Life is too short. 11.  He knows that failing to plan is the same as planning to fail.  He also knows that the few millionaires that reached that milestone without a plan got there only because of dumb luck.   It’s not enough to simply declare that you want to be financially free. 12. When it came time to set his savings goals, he wasn’t afraid to think big.  Financial success demands that you have a vision that is significantly larger than you can currently deliver upon. 13. Over time, he found out that hard work can often help make up for a lot of financial mistakes – and you will make financial mistakes. 14. He realizes that stuff happens, that’s why you’re a fool if you don’t insure yourself against risk. Remember that the potential for bankruptcy is always just around the corner and can be triggered from multiple sources: the death of the family’s key bread winner, divorce, or disability that leads to a loss of work. 15. He understands that time is an ally of the young.  He was fortunate enough to begin saving in his twenties so he could take maximum advantage of the power of compounding interest on his nest egg. 16. He knows that you can’t spend what you don’t see.  You should use automatic paycheck deductions to build up your retirement and other savings accounts.  As your salary increases you can painlessly increase the size of those deductions. 17. Even though he has a job that he loves, he doesn’t have to work anymore because everything he owns is paid for – and has been for years. 18. He’s not impressed that you drive an over-priced luxury car and live in a McMansion that’s two sizes too big for your family of four. 19. After six months of asking, he finally quit waiting for you to return his pruning shears.  He broke down and bought himself a new pair last month.  There’s no hard feelings though; he can afford it. So that’s it.  Now you know what your millionaire neighbor won’t tell you.   FREE AppDownload
After Seagram billionaire Edgar Bronfman Sr. passed away, the family listed his penthouse at 960 Fifth Avenue for $65 million in February, The Wall Street Journal reported.  But it wasn't until recently that Brown Harris Stevens, the firm handling the sale, released interior photos of the 16-room property, according to Curbed NY. Bronfman, who sold his family's spirits empire for $34 billion in 2000, had lived in the prewar co-op for the past 40 years. The full-floor residence has five bedrooms, eight and a half baths, a library and a wrap-around terrace.    The official listing comes on the heels of Bronfman's younger brother Charles selling his own Fifth Avenue apartment a few blocks south. The decor in Bronfman's penthouse is somewhat outdated.Curbed NY He and his family had lived there for 40 years.Curbed NY The color palette in the 16-room apartment is reminiscent of the 1970s.Curbed NY But the penthouse still maintains the architectural details common in a prewar building.Curbed NY The formal dining room has a classical layout.Curbed NY The apartment offers sprawling views of Central Park.Curbed NY The wrap-around terrace got a lot of praise when the floor plan was released ahead of the interior photos.Brown Harris Stevens FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidHedge fund manager Bill Ackman, who runs Pershing Square, gave another presentation on Herbalife. This time it was on Herbalife's business practices in China.  Pershing Square says they have done an investigation and that they have evidence that the company is operating in violation of Chinese law. "The report will show that Herbalife’s business in China operates much like the company’s business in the rest of the world – as a pyramid scheme," Pershing said in a press release.  NYTimes' Front Page Article The first thing he did was address yesterday's New York Times front page article.  The article was about Ackman lobbying folks to help him bring about an investigation into Herbalife that would bring down the company.   Beginning in the summer of 2013, Ackman said that he and his legal counsel went to Washington D.C. to meet with lawmakers.  He said they did it to raise the profile of Herbalife and the increase the chances that the FTC and other agencies would investigate the company. Ackman pointed out that he has the right to petition the government and to free speech. He said the law requires him to hire lobby firms if he spends more than a certain amount of hours lobbying congress.  Three members of congress wrote letters in 2013. In October 2013, Ackman said that he and his senior counsel David Klafter met with Senator Markey (D-MA)'s staff.  His political conferences suggested they meet with the senator because he's "concerned with consumer protection", Ackman said.  He said that they told Markey's staff that they were short the stock and he would give any profits he made personally to charity during an hour-long meeting.  In January, Markey put out three letters to Herbalife CEO Michael Johnson and the chairs of the SEC and the FTC. The stock dropped about 14% after the letters were released. "I believe the stock price dropped because it was clear from Markey letter compared with other letters that his staff understood the important questions that needed to answered in order to determine whether or not Herbalife is violating the law," Ackman said. Ackman says he's never given any money to Markey. He says he's been a larger supporter of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, though.    What's more is Ackman says he just learned that his sister had donated $500 to Markey. He said he had no prior knowledge before the NYTimes article.  China Business Practices David Klafter, Pershing's legal counsel, went over Herbalife's presence in China since 2001. He noted that China has strict laws for direct-selling. Klafter alleges that Herbalife's violates China's direct selling and pyramid sales laws. Here's what he thinks their investigation finds: pershing For their investigation, Pershing Square retained OTG research. Aaron Smith-Levin, a researcher from OTG Research Group, said their staff in China met with over a dozen distributors there to gather their findings.  He concluded, "Based upon Herbalife's own internal documents, Herbalife does not calculate China Sales Employees (a/k/a China royalties) based upon "Hourly Consulting Fees." Instead, Herbalife calculates royalty compensation in China as percentages of Retail sales... just as Herbalife calculates royalty overrides in the rest of the world."  Questions for Ackman Ackman took questions via email. He had a total of 74 questions. Someone asked him if there's anything that would cause him to change his thesis on his Herbalife bet.  Ackman says he has not learned one new fact that's inconsistent with his original thesis that the company is a pyramid scheme. "There's no circumstance under which we are wrong on whether or not Herbalife is a pyramid scheme. There's investment risk with respect to Herbalife. There's no certainty the government will investigate the company...I believe if the FTC, or the SEC or state attorneys general investigated Herbalife and looked into the issues we've identified there's a certainty the company would be found in violation of U.S. law, Chinese law, other law and the government would work to shut the company down. What the government does we have no control over. That is the investment risk in this situation."  Another person asked him what makes him think the FTC will shut down Herbalife knowing that a hedge fund manager will make a lot of money.  Ackman believes that they will have to investigate.  He said that yesterday's page 1 NYTimes story was not his favorite, but he it was "helpful." He thinks regulators will have no choice but to probe the company.  Another listener asked him about doing another activist short. Ackman said he doesn't know if he'll do another activist short. Ackman said that folks attack your "reputation and your integrity." He added that the New York Times also writes "nasty articles" about him.  This also happened to him during his MBIA short. He was criticized in the financial media, but ultimately ended up being right.  Taking Herbalife 'To The End Of The Earth' In late 2012, at a special Sohn Conference event, Ackman publicly declared that Pershing Square was shorting $1 billion worth of Herbalife stock. In a 342-slide presentation, Ackman laid out his thesis that the company operates as a "pyramid scheme" that targets lower income individuals, particularly from the Hispanic population.  It's his belief that regulators, specifically the Federal Trade Commission, will be persuaded to investigate and shut the company down.   Herbalife has denied Ackman's allegations.  What's more is a number of hedge fund managers, most notably Ackman's rival Carl Icahn, have snapped up significant long positions in the stock.   The Herbalife short has been Ackman's "biggest loser" in his hedge fund's history. Since Ackman revealed his short position, shares of Herbalife have surged. So far, he's suffered an estimated $500 million in paper losses.  He's continued to say that he will take this short "to the end of the earth."  FREE AppDownload
Slipp D./flickr/Rob WileThe outlook for the economy has been decent of late. On Friday, we got a solid U.S. jobs report, and Chinese policymakers announced their re-commitment to aim for 7.5% growth in 2014. But Mohamed El-Erian is not convinced. In his latest op-ed on FT's "A-List," the outgoing PIMCO boss explains why. He compares the current situation to trying to what happens as you run out of toothpaste, and that we've relied too long on "experimental policy-induced growth" and not enough on a "truly sustainable variety." ...to use a simple analogy, policy makers find themselves in a position that, I suspect, many of us may encounter as we transition through the different stages of using a tube of toothpaste. With a relatively full tube, little thought is given to how much toothpaste is wasted. But as the tube empties, we are more likely to recognize the cost of having squandered earlier opportunities to modify behaviors consistent with longer-term benefits. And the regret is greatest when it becomes extremely difficult to squeeze any incremental bit of toothpaste out of an exhausted tube. We are not out of growth-paste yet, El Erian says. But he warns that the recent string of good news and this unexpected focus on Ukraine have started to make us complacent. We still need "longer-term policy adjustment," he says. Click here to read the full column on FT.com » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Issei KatoJapan's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe points to a reporter during a news conference at his official residence in Tokyo March 10, 2014.One of the principal arguments touted by Japanese policymakers (and the economists cheering them on) for why deflation is a bad thing and therefore must be overcome is that it depresses consumer spending. The idea is that if Japanese consumers expect lower prices a year from now, they are less likely to make a purchase today. As Hiroko Tabuchi puts it in today's New York Times... A big obstacle in Japan’s path, [Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe] says, has been the entrenched attitudes and behaviors in the country after so many years of falling prices. "It is not easy to alter a deflation mind-set that has been in place here for over 15 years," Mr. Abe told Parliament last month. For most countries, moderately rising prices are a normal part of life. A Big Mac hamburger in the United States, which went for about $2.50 in 1998, now costs over $4.50. Since the turn of the century, American consumer prices have risen from 1.5 to 4 percent a year. But in Japan, overall prices have not risen since the late 1990s. The Big Mac still costs about the same here as it did in 1998: about 300 yen, or almost $3. The price of another popular fast-food offering — the beef-and-rice bowl from the Yoshinoya restaurant chain — has fallen from 400 yen in the late 1990s to 280 yen today. During that time, average worker incomes have also fallen. Is this actually true? Are there actually "entrenched attitudes and behaviors in the country after so many years of falling prices," as Abe and Tabuchi suggest? While the concept may make sense in theory — setting aside the problems with the reasoning that one might put off a hamburger purchase today because one expects it to be cheaper a year from now — it isn't borne out in the actual data, at least in the case of Japan. The Bank of Japan conducts a quarterly "Opinion Survey" in which it asks consumers about, among other things, their views on prices — how they feel prices have changed over the past year, and how they expect prices to change over the coming year. If it were true that deflation depresses consumer spending through the expectations channel — and that this were ingrained in the mind-set of Japanese consumers — one might expect the survey to reveal that (a) many respondents experienced falling prices over the past year, or at least (b) many respondents expect prices to fall over the coming year. However, an examination of the last 10 years of survey results suggests neither (a) nor (b) appear to be true. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from the Bank of Japan)Chart 1.Chart 1 challenges the assertion that a significant portion of the population has even experienced deflation in the last 10 years. It shows that the number of survey respondents reporting that prices had fallen over the past year peaked in the first quarter of 2010 at 40%. This was clearly temporary, however — and came at a time of extraordinary Japanese yen strength, given the strains on the global economy in the wake of the global financial crisis. Moreover, as chart 2 shows, the vast majority of those reporting deflation at the time (36% of all consumers) characterized prices as down "slightly," whereas only 4% of all consumers characterized prices as down "significantly." Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from the Bank of Japan)Chart 2.What should jump out from both charts is that according to the latest survey data, only 2.7% of Japanese consumers feel like prices have gone down "slightly" over the past year, while an even smaller 0.2% believe prices have gone down "significantly." The rest say prices have gone up or have been unchanged. This should be enough to dispel the idea that deflation expectations have become entrenched and are depressing consumer spending, if only because it's plainly evident that very few Japanese consumers are actually experiencing deflation. Let's take a look at expectations though too, just to be sure. Chart 1 shows that, at present, only 3.5% of Japanese consumers expect a "slight" drop in prices over the next year, whereas an even smaller 0.6% expect a "significant" drop ahead. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from the Bank of Japan)Chart 3.Moreover, as chart 3 illustrates, even at the height of the deflationary mood in Japan during the first quarter of 2010, only 16.2% of Japanese consumers expected a "slight" drop in prices over the subsequent year, and only 0.7% expected a "significant" drop was coming. On average, over the last 10 years, 6.4% of consumers expect a "slight" drop in prices in the subsequent year, while 0.4% of consumers expect a "significant" drop. To sum it up: 4.1% of Japanese consumers currently expect deflation. Over the past 10 years, that number has averaged 6.8%. The remaining 95.9% (93.2% on average) expect prices to go up or remain unchanged. In the Times, Tabuchi cites Yusa Nishimura, whose "purse could be undermining Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s economic recovery plan for Japan." "As often as she can, Ms. Nishimura tucks away 500-yen coins, worth a little under $5," writes Tabuchi. "Ms. Nishimura, 23, even has a folder that displays them so Japan’s highest-denomination coins are easier to count. Cash nest eggs like Ms. Nishimura’s made sense in slow-growing Japan, where during 15 years of deflation her money was worth more as time went on. The spa getaway she planned to splurge on was likely to get cheaper if she waited longer." But Ms. Nishimura appears to be one of only 4.1% of Japanese consumers who fear deflation. As Nomura chief economist Richard Koo put it in a 2013 report on Abenomics, "the government’s view that the economy will improve as long as deflation can be defeated depends entirely on a change in the behavior" of those like Ms. Nishimura — the tiny slice of Japanese consumers hoarding money in anticipation of lower prices. FREE AppDownload
A user on the BitcoinTalk forums has posted an extensive list rounding up the details on Bitcoin thefts since August 2010, well before most were paying attention to the digital currency. Each entry includes the amount of money stolen (either an exact number or a reasonable estimate) and other details surrounding the thefts. The entries total up to 818,485.77 stolen Bitcoins, presently worth some $502,081,166.11. As there are currently 12.4 million Bitcoins in circulation, this means roughly 6.6% of the Bitcoin supply is controlled by people who came into possession of their digital currency by illegitimate means. Put another way, one out of every 16-17 Bitcoins belongs to someone who stole it. The most notable incident to date happened just recently at Mt. Gox, a Japan-based Bitcoin exchange that was for many people the default place to buy and sell Bitcoin. The company filed for bankruptcy protection after losing 750,000 of its customers' Bitcoins and 100,000 of its own, saying in a statement that it "believes there is a high possibility that the Bitcoins were stolen." The missing currency was worth approximately $473 million at the time. Bitcoin theft is generally enabled by poor password protection or other human carelessness. Those wanting to keep it secure long-term would do well to store their currency offline, in a physical Bitcoin wallet not connected to the Internet. This is analogous to keeping cash in a safe deposit box. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eric Thayer New York Department of Financial Services Superintendent Ben Lawsky has announced his agency will begin taking applications for a full-blown digital currency exchange. This is basically a go-ahead for SecondMarket CEO Barry Silbert to start setting up his proposed Bitcoin exchange network, which he announced in the wake of the collapse of MtGox. Silbert did not immediately respond to comment. Lawsky is also using Gox as a jumping-off point for the notice. “The recent problems at Mt. Gox and other firms further demonstrate the urgent need for stronger oversight of virtual currency exchanges," Lawsky said in a statement, "including robust standards for consumer protection, cyber security, and anti-money laundering compliance. We will continue to proceed swiftly and thoughtfully to provide rules of the road for reputable virtual currency firms seeking to conduct business on-shore in a responsible manner.” Lawsky also said the state will issue a final regulatory framework for digital currency businesses no later than Q2 of 2014.  Here's the full release: In light of the demonstrated need for stronger oversight of virtual currency firms and other recent developments, Benjamin M. Lawsky, Superintendent of Financial Services, today issued a public order that the New York State Department of Financial Services (NYDFS) will consider formal proposals and applications in connection with the establishment of regulated virtual currency exchanges operating in New York. Superintendent Lawsky said: “The recent problems at Mt. Gox and other firms further demonstrate the urgent need for stronger oversight of virtual currency exchanges, including robust standards for consumer protection, cyber security, and anti-money laundering compliance. We will continue to proceed swiftly and thoughtfully to provide rules of the road for reputable virtual currency firms seeking to conduct business on-shore in a responsible manner.” Firms may immediately submit formal proposals and applications to operate virtual currency exchanges in order to help expedite the process of putting in place greater oversight for this industry. Such proposals and applications represent the formal commencement of a regulatory process, and may be modified by the firm through discussions with NYDFS to help ensure that they include robust consumer, cyber security, and anti-money laundering protections. Approved applications will ultimately be required to adhere to the proposed regulatory framework NYDFS puts forward for virtual currency firms operating in New York. NYDFS is also providing notice today that it intends to propose that regulatory framework no later than the end of the second quarter of 2014. Given that proposals and applications for virtual currency exchanges often take time for firms to develop, today’s public order clarifies that NYDFS will consider such proposals and applications.Today's public order is the next phase in NYDFS’s public inquiry into the appropriate regulatory guardrails for virtual currency firms. NYDFS is continuing to work on regulations – including a specially tailored “BitLicense” – for virtual currency firms operating in New York. NYDFS is also expected in the near future to consider proposals and applications for other types of virtual currency firms beyond exchanges. Superintendent Lawsky said: “Consumers should understand and receive appropriate disclosures about the potential risks associated with using virtual currencies or any other financial product, but the fact is that virtual currencies are unlikely to disappear entirely. They will likely continue to exist in one form or another. As such, turning a blind eye and failing to put in place guardrails for virtual currency firms while consumers use that product is simply not a tenable strategy for regulators. Our overarching goal is to balance creating appropriate regulatory protections without stifling beneficial innovation in the development of new payments platforms.” FREE AppDownload
Although we have made great strides toward women's equality over the last few decades, men and women still spend their time in different ways. The Bureau of Labor Statistics runs an annual survey of Americans asking how they use their time. The survey results are broken down into a number of different demographic groups. Women still spend more time doing household activities — a little more than two hours a day, versus about an hour and fifteen minutes for men — and taking care of family members — 40 minutes for women, against 20 minutes for men. Men spend about an hour and fifteen minutes per day more than women at work and work-related activities, and men have about fifty minutes more daily leisure time than women. This divide is even more noticeable when one looks at the subcategories of household activities. Women spend almost an hour per day on housework and about forty-five minutes on food preparation and cleanup. Men spend only about seventeen minutes per day on each of these activities. While things have gotten more egalitarian, these data still show echoes of 50s-style gender roles. BLS made this chart showing how men and women vary in their time use, based on the 2012 survey results.  Census  (Via Derek Thompson)   FREE AppDownload
Global stock markets have erased earlier gains and U.S. stock markets are in the red as traders eye copper prices, which are taking a dive today. The S&amp;P 500 is trading around 1871, down 0.3% from yesterday's closing levels. In the euro zone, a few indices are holding on to gains (Italy's FTSE MIB and Germany's DAX), but others (the London FTSE 100, the French CAC 40, and the Spanish IBEX 35) have slipped into negative territory. Traders are eyeing copper prices today as concerns over the Chinese growth outlook continue to ripple through global markets. Data over the weekend revealed a sharp drop in Chinese exports, and copper futures fell 1.7% in Monday's session. Today, they are down another 2.3%. One item out of China in particular that is receiving attention today is the prospect of a second default in the Chinese corporate bond market. Trading in solar company Baoding Tianwei Baobian Electric was suspended today following the announcement of its latest quarterly earnings results, which revealed continued mounting losses. It's unclear to what extent these themes are playing out in the broader global marketplace, but the absence of any major economic data releases in the first two days of the week has left little in the way of fundamental "catalysts" for the sell-off. The charts below show movements in various markets. Across the top from left to right are the S&amp;P 500 index, the U.S. dollar-Japanese yen exchange rate, and the euro-U.S. dollar exchange rate. Across the bottom are gold futures, 10-year U.S. Treasury futures, and December 2015 eurodollar futures. Thinkorswim FREE AppDownload
The White House recently submitted its annual report on the economy to Congress. One chart contained within shows how far the U.S. has come relative to other nations who went through the credit crisis. It shows that on an indexed basis, GDP per working-age person has climbed further in the U.S. than anywhere in Europe (except maybe Germany). We saw it at Conversable Economist, aka Timothy Taylor.  White House Of course, this only shows developed, western (ish, if you count Ukraine) nations — no emerging economies are listed here.  But the main takeaway is that things could be a whole lot worse. Taylor: International comparisons are always a bit tricky. After all, the U.S. has been less affected by the euro crisis than countries of the European Union. Nonetheless, the basic fact is that the U.S. economy is leading the way in this comparison group, which suggests that U.S. economic policy in the aftermath of the Great Recession did something right. To put it another way, critics of the U.S. fiscal and monetary policies in the aftermath of the Great Recession need to explain why, if the policies were so bad, the outcome has been comparatively so good. Check out the rest of the White House's report here » FREE AppDownload
Sarah Wood KearneyThere are almost twice as many male entrepreneurs as female ones in the United States, and that imbalance is seen throughout the world. The gap has been attributed to long-standing gender biases that have become so ingrained in our culture that, even today, both male and female investors prefer pitches from men over women, according to a new report from the Proceedings of the National Academy on Sciences (PNAS).  Additionally, attractive men fare significantly better than their less attractive counterparts, the report finds, while looks have no notable effect on how a female entrepreneur is perceived. The report is based on three studies conducted by Alison Wood Brooks of Harvard Business School, Laura Huang of UPenn's Wharton School, and Sarah Wood Kearney and Fiona E. Murray of MIT's Sloan School. For the first study, the team analyzed three pitch competitions over the course of three years. Each contestant had about five minutes to narrate a series of slides outlining his or her business plan, a practice that has become venture capitalists' preferred standard of judging entrepreneurs. The randomly selected test group was composed of 70 male entrepreneurs and 20 female entrepreneurs. A successful pitch was defined as one that received a prize, and the physical attractiveness of the test subjects was judged by a separate panel of 60 angel investors unaware of the competitions' results. When weighing just the factor of gender, male entrepreneurs were 60% more likely to achieve pitch competition success than female entrepreneurs. And attractive men were 36% more likely to achieve success than their average-looking counterparts. The results remained the same regardless of differences in the business sector presented, the pitch competitions evaluated, the time the pitch was given, and how long the pitch lasted. In the second study, the research team recruited a nationally representative sample of 521 Americans, of which 47% were female. It collected real startup pitches from a university competition and had a panel of 12 expert investors rank each pitch on a scale of 1 to 7 for how likely it was to succeed. Participants were paid based on the accuracy of their choices, in an effort to control any conscious biases. The sample group sat at a computer and watched a pitch slideshow narrated by either a randomly assigned male or female voice. Although the voices presented identical pitches, 68% of participants chose to fund the ventures pitched by a male voice and only 32% of participants chose to fund the ventures pitched by a female voice. The age and gender of the participating judges had no effect on decision-making.  For the final study, 194 Americans (57% female) were shown just one narrated pitch video accompanied by a gender-matched photograph previously judged as either attractive or not. The researchers asked participants to rate how likely they were to invest in the company after hearing the pitch, as well as other qualifying questions. Once again, male-narrated pitches significantly outscored identical pitches narrated by women, and those from men were also found to be more "persuasive," "fact based," and "logical."  On a scale of 1 to 7 (7 meaning very likely to invest), attractive men averaged 5.21, while less attractive men averaged 4.59. Meanwhile, unattractive women scored slightly higher than attractive women, but within the margin of error.  The report found a clear correlation between gender and success, and the importance of good looks for men. The researchers acknowledged that previous research suggests women entrepreneurs become more appealing when they pitch companies traditionally associated with old gender stereotypes (beauty, fashion, and cleaning, for example), but they did not ask participants to explain their decisions. Even without explanation, the report suggests that entrepreneurialism is still seen as a man's venture, and both men and women cling to this bias. FREE AppDownload
Scott Olson/Getty ImagesMen's Wearhouse is going to buy Jos. A. Bank for $65 per share in cash, or $1.8 billion.  The acquisition comes after months of hostile negotiations between the companies.  "Together, Men's Wearhouse and Jos. A. Bank will have more than 1,700 stores in the U.S., with approximately 23,000 employees and sales of $3.5 billion," the companies said in a news release.  Men's Wearhouse will not rebrand or rename Jos. A. Bank, and storefronts will remain intact.  Jos. A. Bank also said in the release that it has terminated plans to acquire Eddie Bauer.  Here's the full release:  FREMONT, Calif. and HAMPSTEAD, Md., March 11, 2014 /PRNewswire/ -- The Men's Wearhouse (NYSE: MW) and Jos. A. Bank Clothiers (JOSB) today announced that they have entered into a definitive agreement under which Men's Wearhouse (MW) will acquire all of the outstanding shares of common stock of Jos. A. Bank for $65.00 per share in cash, or total consideration of $1.8 billion.  The boards of directors of both companies have unanimously approved the transaction.  Together, Men's Wearhouse and Jos. A. Bank will have more than 1,700 stores in the U.S., with approximately 23,000 employees and sales of $3.5 billion on a pro forma basis.  "We are pleased to have reached this agreement with Jos. A. Bank, which we believe will deliver substantial benefits to our respective shareholders, employees and customers," said Doug Ewert, President and Chief Executive Officer of Men's Wearhouse.  "Together, Men's Wearhouse and Jos. A. Bank will have increased scale and breadth, and Jos. A. Bank's strong brand and complementary business model will broaden our customer reach.  We expect the transaction will be accretive to Men's Wearhouse's earnings in the first full year." Mr. Ewert continued, "The combined company will have the operational flexibility to successfully execute on strategic plans at both brands.  We are excited by the opportunities this transaction presents and are confident that our combined best-in-class offerings for our valued customers will drive significant shareholder value.  All of us at Men's Wearhouse have great respect for the Jos. A. Bank management team and are eager to work with Jos. A. Bank's talented employees.  I am confident that, together, we will create a truly great company for all of our stakeholders.&amp;quot; Robert N. Wildrick, Chairman of the Board of Jos. A. Bank, said, "Our Board has been rigorously focused on pursuing a path for our shareholders that maximizes value creation.  We have been committed to pursuing a range of strategic alternatives to achieve that goal. The transaction we are announcing today clearly reflects the success of our efforts, providing a substantial premium over any price at which our stock has ever traded, including a 56% premium since our interest in Men's Wearhouse became public last October, and allowing our shareholders to receive immediate consideration for their holdings.  On behalf of our Board and management team, I would like to express our deep appreciation to our employees for their hard work in making Jos. A. Bank the great company it is today.  We look forward to working together with Men's Wearhouse to ensure a smooth transition.&amp;quot; Strategic and Financial Benefits of the Combination Terms of the Transaction Men's Wearhouse will acquire Jos. A. Bank for approximately $1.8 billion in cash.  Today, Men's Wearhouse announced that it has extended the expiration date of its tender offer to 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on Wednesday, March 19, 2014, unless extended.  Men's Wearhouse will amend its pending tender offer prior to that expiration date in accordance with, and to reflect, the terms of the Merger Agreement, including to reflect the increase in the purchase price to be offered to $65.00 per share and other changes contemplated by the Merger Agreement between Men's Wearhouse and Jos. A. Bank. Jos. A. Bank's Board of Directors unanimously determined that the definitive merger agreement with Men's Wearhouse and the terms of the Men's Wearhouse tender offer are fair to and in the best interests of Jos. A. Bank and its shareholders, and recommends that Jos. A. Bank shareholders tender their Jos. A. Bank shares to Men's Wearhouse. Jos. A. Bank will amend its Schedule 14D-9 previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commissionto reflect the recommendation of its Board of Directors. The transaction is subject to certain closing conditions, including the valid tender of sufficient shares, which, when added to shares owned by Men's Wearhouse and its affiliates, constitute a majority of the total number of common shares outstanding on a fully-diluted basis. Any shares not tendered in the offer will be acquired in a second step merger at the same cash price as in the tender offer.  In conjunction with this transaction, Jos. A. Bank has terminated its agreement to acquire Everest Holdings LLC, the parent company of Eddie Bauer.  As a result of the termination of its agreement to purchase Everest Holdings LLC, the terms and conditions of the offer were not satisfied. Effective immediately, Jos. A. Bank is also withdrawing its previously announced tender offer to purchase for cash up to $300 million in value of its common stock. Financing and Approvals The Men's Wearhouse tender offer is not conditioned on financing, and the Company expects to finance the transaction with a combination of balance sheet cash and committed debt financing from BofA Merrill Lynch and JPMorgan Chase Bank (JPKCZ), N.A.  The strong free cash flow generated by the combined company is expected to enable rapid deleveraging. The transaction, which is expected to close by the third quarter of 2014, is subject to satisfaction of customary closing conditions, including expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Act.  Both Men's Wearhouse and Jos. A. Bank are working cooperatively with the Federal Trade Commission to obtain approval of the transaction as soon as possible. Advisors BofA Merrill Lynch and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC are serving as financial advisors to Men's Wearhouse, and Willkie Farr &amp; Gallagher LLP is serving as legal advisor.  Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co. and Financo, LLC are serving as financial advisors to Jos. A. Bank, and Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher &amp; Flom LLP and Guilfoil Petzall &amp; Shoemake, L.L.C. are serving as its legal advisors. About Men's Wearhouse Founded in 1973, Men's Wearhouse is one of North America's largest specialty retailers of men's apparel with 1,124 stores.  The Men's Wearhouse, Moores and K&amp;G stores carry a full selection of suits, sport coats, furnishings and accessories in exclusive and non-exclusive merchandise brands and Men's Wearhouse and Tux stores carry a limited selection.  Most K&amp;amp;G stores carry a full selection of women's apparel.  Tuxedo rentals are available in the Men's Wearhouse, Moores and Men's Wearhouse and Tux stores.  Additionally, Men's Wearhouse operates a global corporate apparel and workwear group consisting of Twin Hill in the United States and Dimensions, Alexandra and Yaffy in the United Kingdom.  Investors can find additional information athttp://ir.menswearhouse.com/. About Jos. A. Bank Jos. A. Bank Clothiers, Inc., established in 1905, is one of the nation's leading designers, manufacturers and retailers of men's classically-styled tailored and casual clothing, sportswear, footwear and accessories. The Company sells its full product line through 629 stores in 44 states and the District of Columbia, a nationwide catalog and an e-commerce website that can be accessed athttp://www.josbank.com/. The Company is headquartered in Hampstead, Md., and its common stock is listed on the NASDAQ under the symbol "JOSB." ADDITIONAL INFORMATION On January 6, 2014, Java Corp. ("Purchaser"), a wholly owned subsidiary ofThe Men's Wearhouse, Inc., commenced a cash tender offer for all outstanding shares of common stock of Jos. A. Bank Clothiers, Inc. not already owned by Men's Wearhouse or any of its subsidiaries, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Amended and Restated Offer to Purchase dated as of February 24, 2014 (the &amp;quot;Offer to Purchase&amp;quot;).  Today, Men's Wearhouse announced that it has extended the expiration date to the tender offer to  5:00 p.m., New York City time, on March 19, 2014, unless further extended in the manner set forth in the Offer to Purchase.  Men's Wearhouse will amend its pending tender offer prior to that expiration date in accordance with, and to reflect, the terms of the Merger Agreement, including to reflect the increase in the purchase price to be offered to $65.00 per share and other changes contemplated by the Merger Agreement between Men's Wearhouse, Java Corp. and Jos. A. Bank. This communication does not constitute an offer to buy or solicitation of an offer to sell any securities. This communication is for informational purposes only.  The tender offer is not being made to, nor will tenders be accepted from, or on behalf of, holders of shares in any jurisdiction in which the making of the tender offer or the acceptance thereof would not comply with the laws of that jurisdiction.  The tender offer is being made pursuant to a tender offer statement on Schedule TO (including the Offer to Purchase, a related letter of transmittal and other offer materials) filed by Men's Wearhouse and the Purchaser with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC (SCUR)&amp;quot;) on January 6, 2014, as amended from time to time. INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS OF JOS. A. BANK ARE URGED TO READ THESE AND OTHER DOCUMENTS FILED WITH THE SEC CAREFULLY IN THEIR ENTIRETY BECAUSE THEY CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT THE TENDER OFFER. Investors and security holders can obtain free copies of these documents and other documents filed with the SEC by Men's Wearhouse through the web site maintained by the SEC at http://www.sec.gov.  The Offer to Purchase Letter of Transmittal and other offering documents may also be obtained for free by contacting the Information Agent for the tender offer, MacKenzie Partners, Inc., at 212-929-5500 or toll-free at 800-322-2885. In response to the amended tender offer by The Men's Wearhouse, Inc., through its wholly owned subsidiary, Java Corp., Jos. A. Bank will file an amendment to its solicitation/recommendation statement on Schedule 14D-9 with the SEC. Any solicitation/recommendation statement filed by Jos. A. Bank  that is required to be mailed to stockholders will be mailed to stockholders of Jos. A. Bank. INVESTORS AND STOCKHOLDERS OF JOS. A. BANK ARE URGED TO READ THE SOLICITATION / RECOMMENDATION STATEMENT AND OTHER DOCUMENTS FILED WITH THE SEC CAREFULLY IN THEIR ENTIRETY BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION. Investors and stockholders may obtain free copies of the solicitation/recommendation statement and other documents (when available) filed with the SEC by Jos. A. Bank free of charge through the website maintained by the SEC at www.sec.gov. In addition, the solicitation/recommendation statement and other materials related to Men's Wearhouse's proposal may be obtained from Jos. A. Bank free of charge by directing a request to the Company's Investor Relations Department, Jos. A. Bank Clothiers, Inc., 500 Hanover Pike, Hampstead,MD 21074, 410.239.5900 NON-GAAP MEASUREMENTS This press release includes non-GAAP financial measures. Jos. A. Bank and Men's Wearhouse are presenting EBITDA with respect to Jos. A. Bank which is a non-GAAP financial measure. Jos. A. Bank and Men's Wearhouse believe presentation of this non-GAAP financial measure is (i) helpful to management in evaluating the proposed transaction and (ii) useful to investors in connection with their financial analysis. Non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as an alternative for, results prepared in accordance with GAAP. For a description of how Jos. A. Bank and Men's Wearhouse reconcile these non-GAAP financial measures to net income, please see the appendix to this press release. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENT AND OTHER IMPORTANT INFORMATION Jos. A. Bank and Men's Wearhouse obtained or created certain information used in this press release from research, surveys or studies conducted by third parties, information provided by customers, and industry or general publications. Industry publications and surveys generally state that they have obtained information from sources believed to be reliable but do not guarantee the accuracy and completeness of such information. We have not independently verified the information and data in such research, surveys, studies, information and publications, and we do not make any representation as to the accuracy of such information. This press release contains forward-looking statements and information about our current and future prospects and our operations and financial results, which are based on currently available information. The forward-looking statements include assumptions about our operations, such as cost control, market conditions, liquidity and financial condition. These forward-looking statements are based upon management's current beliefs or expectations and are inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies and third-party approvals, many of which are beyond our control.  The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements:  (1) the occurrence of any event, change or other circumstances that could give rise to the termination of the Agreement and Plan of Merger by and among Men's Wearhouse, Inc.,  Java Corp. and Jos. A. Bank Clothiers, Inc., (2) the failure to consummate the acquisition of Jos. A. Bank for reasons including that the conditions to Men's Wearhouse's offer to purchase all outstanding shares of Jos. A. Bank's common stock, including the condition that a minimum number of shares be tendered and not withdrawn, are not satisfied or waived by Men's Wearhouse, (3) the possibility that the expected benefits from the proposed transaction will not be realized within the anticipated time period, (4) the risk that regulatory or other approvals required for the transaction are not obtained, (5) the risks related to the costs and difficulties related to the integration of Jos. A. Bank's business and operations with Men's Wearhouse'sbusiness and operations, (6) the inability to obtain, or delays in obtaining, cost savings and synergies from the transaction, (7) unexpected costs, charges or expenses resulting from the transaction, (8) litigation relating to the transaction, (9) the inability to retain key personnel and (10) the possible disruption that may be caused by the transaction to the business and operations of Men's Wearhouse and its relationships with customers, employees and other third parties. The forward-looking statements in this press release speak only as of the date hereof. Except for the ongoing obligations of Men's Wearhouse and Jos. A. Bank to disclose material information under the federal securities laws, neither Men's Wearhouse nor Jos. A. Bank undertakes any obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, the occurrence of certain events or otherwise, except as required by law.  Other factors that may impact the forward-looking statements can be found in Men's Wearhouse's and Jos. A. Bank's respective filings with the SEC.  Please read the "Risk Factors" and other cautionary statements contained in those filings. As a result of these risks and others, actual results could vary significantly from those anticipated in this press release, and Men's Wearhouse's and Jos. A. Bank's financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. For additional information on Men's Wearhouse, please visit the Company's websites at www.menswearhouse.com, www.mooresclothing.com, www.kgstores.com,www.twinhill.com, www.dimensions.co.uk and www.alexandra.co.uk.  For additional information on Jos. A. Bank, please visit www.josbank.com. Jos. A. Bank is not accepting for payment any shares that have been tendered, and such shares will be returned, without expense, to holders who have tendered such shares (or, in the case of shares tendered by book-entry transfer through the DTC, such shares will be credited to the appropriate account maintained with the DTC). The tender offer consideration of $65.00 in connection with the Eddie Bauer (EBHI) transaction will not be paid or become payable to any holders of shares pursuant to the offer by Jos. A. Bank  Under no circumstances should shares be tendered to the Jos. A. Bank or DTC and, if tendered, such shares will not be accepted and will be promptly returned to the tendering shareholder.   FREE AppDownload
    CrossFit is a wildly popular core strength and conditioning workout. Here are three exercises Christian Fox from CrossFit South Brooklyn showed us to improve upper body strength. FREE AppDownload
Bradley PageMore than half of New York households are dishing out more on rent than they can afford, according to a report by the state comptroller. Since 2000, the share of renters in the state who put more than 30 percent of their income towards housing costs has increased sharply, from 40.5 percent to 50.6 percent, according to a report by Comptroller Thomas DiNapoli, released earlier this week. According to Federal guidelines, housing is not considered to be affordable when costs exceed the 30% threshold. Based on that standard, a full third of of homeowners also can’t afford their mortgages – up from 26.4 percent in 2000, the New York Times reported. In New York City neighborhoods, the percentages are even higher. In the Bronx, about 57 percent of renters pay more than 30 percent of their income for rent and utilities, the report showed. Brooklyn and Queens also had some of the highest percentages of households above the affordability threshold. The lack of affordability can be attributed to rising housing costs coupled with declining household incomes, according to the report. Median housing costs increased 18.6 percent for renters since 2000, and 9.9 percent for homeowners. But median household income for homeowners declined 1.6 percent since 2000, and 7.1 percent for renters. The problem is exacerbated by low vacancy rates, which translate to higher rents, as well as rising property taxes, the Times reported.  FREE AppDownload
Copper prices are down 1.3% to $2.9940 a pound and is down the lowest level since 2010. Copper has been taking a beating recently after concerns about Chinese economic growth resurfaced. We saw Chinese exports tumble after the release of February export data. And last week, copper prices tumbled after China experienced its first domestic bond default. FIn Viz FREE AppDownload
How much housing you can buy with a million dollars very much depends on what city you are looking to buy in. According to Knight Frank data cited by CNBC's Robert Frank, a million dollars goes a lot further in Cape Town than it would in Monaco. But what about in the U.S.? We looked at housing list price data from real estate brokerage Movoto.com and real estate marketplace Zillow.com. The diagram below shows the number of square feet of housing that you can buy for $1,000,000, based on the median price per square foot in each city: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Movoto and Zillow With a median list price of $666 per square foot, San Francisco's real estate boom limits a million dollars to buying about 1,500 square feet. On the other end of the spectrum, the median list price in beleaguered Detroit is just $12 per square foot — 55 times cheaper than in San Francisco. Considering all five boroughs, the median price per square foot in New York City is $424. Looking just at Manhattan however, that price jumps to an astronomical $1,538 per square foot, leading to $1,000,000 buying just 650 square feet.   FREE AppDownload
Bitcoin can be hard to explain. Conan O'Brien invited "Marcus Ortman," the "COO of Bitcoin," onto his show to give the following (hilarious) explanation.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jason ReedBill GrossA PIMCO trustee board member blasted billionaire bond guru Bill Gross for being overpaid.   "You could hire 2,000 schoolteachers for that money. I don't know what Bill should be paid, but $200 million is not appropriate," trustee William Popejoy told the LA Times' E. Scott Reckard.  Last month, Gross was the subject of an incredibly unflattering Wall Street Journal article.  The inside account detailed how Gross had a nasty clash with Mohamed El-Erian in front of the other employees. El-Erian, PIMCO's CEO/co-CIO, abruptly resigned from PIMCO in January.  Sources also told the Journal that Gross referred to himself as "Secretariat," the legendary racehorse. Popejoy slammed Gross again over that. "I don't know if Secretariat made $200 million a year," he told the LA Times.  The WSJ article also said that Gross doesn't let his traders make eye contact with him or speak to him in the morning.   Popejoy described Gross' leadership style to the LA Times as "bullying" based on what he's read.    FREE AppDownload
Yahoo Stocks of companies that develop and sell fuel cells are going crazy — their shares are up about 50% in the past five days. The gainers include: Among the catalysts for the surge was the announcement of a huge new Wal-Mart order for Plug Power's fuel cells — which use Ballard materials — as well as a strong revenue report from Fuel Cell. The market caps of these companies are tiny, but still, the surge cannot be ignored. Are we really on the verge of fuel cells going mainstream?  Let's back up for a moment. Basically, fuel cells take hydrogen and turn it into electricity. The most common way of doing this involves using a proton exchange membrane. This is a membrane that separates out the positive and negative charges — the proton and electron — of a hydrogen atom. The membrane is treated in such a way that the electron cannot pass through it; instead, it only captures the proton. This allows the electron to go through an external circuit and get momentarily captured as electricity.  The exhaust product from the system is created by the proton and electron recombining with an oxygen molecule, which is flowing through the other side of the membrane. The only "waste" created from a fuel cell is water heat, meaning they are essentially carbon neutral.    Via Ballard, here's the visual demonstration. The flow field plate is charged to separate out the proton and electron. Ballard Hydrogen and oxygen pass through along either side of the charged membrane.  Ballard The hydrogen atom gets split into its positive and negative charges — protons and electrons. Ballard The proton passes through the membrane, where it will become part of an exhaust product ... Ballard ... while the electron gets temporarily captured as electricity. Ballard The split proton and electron are reunited with an oxygen atom to produce water and heat — a nearly pure form of energy exhaust.   Ballard If you stack a bunch of these guys together, you get a fuel cell. Ballard ( You can watch the whole video here » )  The long-term shift in the marketplace is that hydrogen — namely in the form of natural gas, which is simply hydrogen and carbon — is getting cheaper and more abundant according to Bloomberg's Christopher Martin. On the higher end, solar-based fuel cells, which convert solar and wind energy into hydrogen, have seen cost improvements as solar use has expanded. And fuel cells form part of the push toward cleaner energy, something Wal-Mart has been pushing. And a recent note from Navigant indicates more sectors are looking to fuel cells to provide grid-independent sources of power in case of natural disasters. “With the growing need to enhance grid resiliency and the accelerating adoption of distributed generation technologies worldwide, the stationary fuel cell industry is well-positioned for growth over the next decade,” says Mackinnon Lawrence, research director with Navigant Research. “Expected to break through the $2 billion mark in annual revenue in 2014, stationary fuel cells are seeing increased financing options for adoption, particularly in the healthy residential combined heat and power segment.” Wal-Mart also sees the cells as cost- and labor-saving devices, since it takes less time to refuel a lift, and thus creates less downtime.   But again, the market cap of these firms remains relatively minuscule. As far as their use in transport, fuel cells are so far mostly limited to light industrial machines like forklifts. Navigant says the stationary fuel cell market will reach $9 billion in annual revenue by 2022. More importantly, these stocks have come under huge waves of hype before, when the market has gotten frothy. Plug Power went public during the dot-com bubble, and while it survived, its stock has gone nowhere for the past decade. Check out the insane heights it reached during the bubble.  Google Finance For what it's worth, Lake Street's Rob Brown today lowered his rating on Ballard to "hold" from "buy" with a $4 price target. He writes in a note: At the current price, we believe shares are implying roughly $4 per share in value for new development programs (based on discounting at least $80M in additional annual EBITDA) on top of the core business, which we value at $2.50 per share. Many of these potential programs have yet to be identified, have very limited visibility on future outcomes, and likely will not contribute meaningful revenue for at least 4 years.  Ballard gets 10% of its revenue from Plug Power, and 25% from Volkswagen, Brown says. Indeed, some analysts believe everything will ride on whether automakers ultimately start rolling out fuel cell vehicles en masse. But given the surge in demand for electric vehicles, there is a decent chance the bump doesn't go much higher from here. FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ Eric ThayerHeleen MeesDutch economist Heleen Mees is preparing to file a defamation suit in the Netherlands against Citigroup's chief economist Willem Buiter, new documents from her attorney show. Her attorney has also filed an application in Manhattan federal court to subpoena Citigroup to hand over expense reports, hotel bills, and restaurant bills to help her prepare the defamation suit. Last summer, Mees was arrested on allegations that she stalked and harassed Buiter, her ex-lover. Mees — who said she had a consensual relationship with Buiter — was also accused of sending thousands of emails as well as some racy messages and photos.  In the original criminal complaint against Mees, Buiter alleged she emailed messages to him such as "What can I do to make it right? Shall I lick your b---s?", "Shall we adopt a child?" and "Hope your plane falls out of the sky."  The complaint alleged she emailed photos of dead birds and allegedly sent him pictures of other women naked and pictures of herself masturbating.  According to the original complaint, Buiter said Mees' actions caused him "severe annoyance and alarm" and he feared for his physical safety and the safety of his wife and children.  A Manhattan judge said Monday the charges against Mees will be dismissed if she goes to therapy, the Associated Press reported. Mees Tweeted that she still denies all allegations. Mees is now trying to go after Buiter for defamation in The Netherlands, where she says misinformation about her was widely distributed. A Citigroup spokesperson declined to comment on the matter. We sent a request to Buiter for comment and will update as warranted.  According to the documents reviewed by Business Insider, Mees' attorney claims Buiter made "deliberate falsehoods and misleading statements" to the NYPD that destroyed her "reputation; caused her to lose consulting jobs and speaking engagements, her professorship at NYU, her position as a columnist, and other opportunities; and also significantly injured her emotionally." REUTERS/Fred ProuserWillem Buiter, chief economist at CitigroupThe documents show her lawyer wants to subpoena Citi to produce "all expense reports, hotel bills, restaurant bills, taxi cab receipts, public transportation tickets and receipts, airline tickets, boarding passes, flight schedules, calendars, appointment books, booking or reservation confirmations, credit card statements submitted for reimbursement, corporate credit card statements, telephone bills, any other bills or receipts, and any other documents, sufficient to show Willem Buiter's whereabouts, by country and city, on each of the Romantic Encounter Dates and on June 25, 2011, August 20-21, 2011, September 15, 2012 and May 3, 2013."  Her attorney would also like to depose a Citi representative present at one of those dinners "to show the mutual and voluntary nature of Buiter's interactions with Dr. Mees and that as early 2012, Buiter was not annoyed, alarmed, or fearful as a result of Dr. Mees' presence or conduct." Mees' attorney wants to subpoena these documents to show "the falsity of Buiter's statements and innuendo that during the November 7, 2009 - July 1, 2013 period Buiter wanted to have no contact with Dr. Mees, but was chased across the world against his will, all the way to his hotel in China, and flooded with over 3,000 emails, and that this conduct annoyed and alarmed him, and made him fearful," the document states.  Her attorney even listed the hotels/restaurants and the dates that Buiter and Mees were allegedly together. Mees attorney also details alleged romantic encounters between the two economists.  See below:   BOIES, SCHILLER & FLEXNER LLP BOIES, SCHILLER & FLEXNER LLP BOIES, SCHILLER & FLEXNER LLP   Here are the alleged romantic ecounters:  BOIES, SCHILLER & FLEXNER LLPBOIES, SCHILLER & FLEXNER LLP Here are the documents: Memo of Law, Mees-1  Declaration Haazen w Exhibits 1-17-1  FREE AppDownload
NetflixThe January JOLTS report is out. Job openings came in at 3.974 million, below the 4.015 million expected but up from December's revised print of 3.914 million. The hire rate and separation rate were basically unchanged at 3.3% and 3.2%, respectively. The Bureau of Labor Statistics' "JOLTS Report" may not be as market moving as monthly nonfarm payrolls, but it does gives key insights into the labor market on hires, quits, layoffs, and job openings. In fact, the Federal Reserve's new chair Janet Yellen has cited JOLTS as one of her favorite reports. As the unemployment rate edges toward the Fed's targets over the next few years, JOLTS could possibly play a larger role when the central bank determines interest rate policy. FREE AppDownload
Janet Yellen, our newly minted Federal Reserve chair, loves herself some JOLTS. The Job Openings and Labor Turnovers Survey (JOLTS) may not get as much attention as the monthly jobs report, but Yellen has cited JOLTS in the past as one of her favorite labor market indicators. So market-watchers would be wise to keep an eye on JOLTS, which is due out at 10:00 a.m. ET today. It may not be very market-moving, but it's the kind of indicator that could spur the Yellen Fed to alter monetary policy, especially as unemployment nears Fed targets in the coming years. Here's where we are in four key metrics ahead of today's report. Job openings are trending upward. FREDHires are still way below pre-recession levels. FREDLayoffs are down, but as we've written before, it could be a sign of labor hoarding. The idea here is that firms hold on to the labor they have in times of trouble and try to maximize their productivity. Until hires break through, the fact that layoffs are low doesn't really tell us all that much. FREDThe quit rate is still fairly low. The higher the quit rate, the better, since people generally leave their jobs when they are more confident in the job market. FRED FREE AppDownload
Sometimes in technical analysis you hear the term "death cross" to indicate when one indicator has crossed another indicator, signaling some bearish market action. But here's a literal death cross. Michael McDonough — chief economist at Bloomberg LP — tweeted this chart of births and deaths in Japan. As you can see, it was around the middle of the last decade when deaths began to outnumber births. Even with Abenomics, it's really hard to see how the Japanese economy can return to its golden years. Michael McDonough FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Steve MarcusHedge fund manager Steven A. CohenSAC Capital, the once $14 billion Stamford, Conn.-based hedge fund run by Steven A. Cohen, just got a new name.  SAC will be called Point72 Asset Management, Dealbook's Matthew Goldstein reports citing an internal letter.  Last summer, SAC was criminally indicted on insider trading charges. Federal prosecutors charged the fund "with criminal responsibility for insider trading offenses committed by numerous employees and made possible by institutional practices that encouraged the widespread solicitation and use of illegal inside information." SAC pleaded guilty in November and agreed to pay a $1.8 billion fine.  SAC also agreed to no longer manage outside capital. Instead, it will operate as a family office hedge fund and manage Cohen's wealth and money of its employees, which comes to about $9 billion in assets under management.    The fund was expected to pick a new name.  FREE AppDownload
ZeroHedge is calling it the "holy grail" of trading. In its IPO prospectus, High Frequency Trading firm Virtu reveals it had one losing trading day in 1,238 days of trading. Just one. HFT has become increasingly controversial in recent years, and this new IPO shines light on an otherwise secretive (and computerized) industry. Virtu is what's called a market maker. It doesn't hold onto securities for very long, but instead derives profit from bid/ask spreads. High frequency trading is called "high frequency" for exactly that reason. This is all happening in a matter of milliseconds. Virtu and other HFT firms basically argue they are providing a public service by ensuring liquidity in the market "by consistently buying securities from sellers and selling securities to buyers," according to the prospectus. Critics of HFT like ZeroHedge say that when your business model is to "scalp pennies from every market order — that would be billions of market orders in a period of four years — there is no risk." Virtu is a New-York based firm famous for trying (and failing) to buy Knight Capital Group in 2012. But things are definitely going well  for the HFT firm. Its founder and chief executive officer recently purchased the Florida Panthers hockey team. "The chart below illustrates our daily Adjusted Net Trading Income from January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2013," Virtu writes in the filing. "As a result of our real-time risk management strategy and technology, we had only one losing trading day during the period depicted, a total of 1,238 trading days." Here's the chart of Virtu's near-perfect record: SEC  FREE AppDownload
One of the biggest themes in the economy lately that we've been writing a ton about is creeping labor market tightness. Evidence continues to show — and investors increasingly believe — that there's less slack in the labor market that the Fed believes and that inflation will come faster and harder than expected. The latest evidence comes from the National Federation Of Independent Businesses weekly sentiment survey. This chart, which was spotted by Conor Sen asks small business owners what their #1 problem is. As has been the case for a long time, taxes and sales are identified as the biggest problems for small businesses. But what's trending sharply up is the inability to find quality workers. This answer surged last month, to the highest level in years. The number still isn't as high as it's been at time in the past, but it adds another piece to the puzzle showing that there's not as much of a labor surplus as people think. NFIB FREE AppDownload
Business Insider AustraliaScott Farquhar presenting at an Atlassian user conferenceFor those that have struggled to swim in the shark tank, or have lost their way in the dragon's den, new research shows that the odds might have been stacked against you from the beginning. Investors are more likely to put money into a business idea pitched by a man than a woman, according to a study published by researchers from Harvard, Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the Wharton School. And are even more so if that man happens to be good-looking, it said.  "We identify a profound and consistent gender gap in entrepreneurship," the researchers said in the report which was published Monday in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.  "Attractive males are particularly persuasive, whereas physical attractiveness does not matter among female entrepreneurs." Three entrepreneurial pitch competitions in the United States were used for the study along with two controlled experiments. Even with the content of the pitch being the same, the investors still preferred pitches presented by male entrepreneurs, it said. Typically, when pitching to investors or venture capitalists it is the entrepreneur's business proposition and previous experience that are regarded as the main criteria for investment decisions. But the report suggests that a decent idea and an experienced presenter might not be enough. The results might have a particularly relevance in the U.S, known for its flourishing mix of startups and business ventures. 43 percent of Americans believe there are good opportunities in entrepreneurship, according to a report last year by Babson and Baruch Colleges. This is up by more than 20 percent since 2011 and the highest level recorded in the 15-year history of the study.  Entrepreneurship is seen as a central path to job creation, economic growth, and prosperity and Monday's findings shows a bias and a "profound" gender gap. Babson and Baruch launched a global economic monitor looking at female involvement in entrepreneurship. Its findings said that the United States generally does not suffer from "overt discrimination" in regards to opportunities or resources related to women starting and growing businesses.  "At the same time, covert discriminatory practices are sometimes found, particularly in obtaining higher-level resources such as equity capital or corporate procurement contracts. " it said in the report last July. FREE AppDownload
Courtesy of South Light PropertyWhen it comes to retirement saving, it doesn't matter how old you are, because all generations are in trouble. Whether a baby boomer, Gen Xer or millennial, many Americans find themselves in the same boat: not having a solid plan for retirement. Although different generations are facing different threats, a study conducted by financial-education company Financial Finesse found that most, if not all, Americans might not be able to eventually pack up and head to a retirement community. The study found that the biggest threat overall to baby boomers is retirement preparedness. For example, more than half of employees age 55 to 64 say they have not even run a retirement-plan estimate. The study was based on an analysis of 20,575 responses. Gen Xers are most likely to be in the worst financial shape when it comes to retirement planning. Aside from their being behind other generations in terms of managing dollars and developing solid retirement plans, there are other external factors that will contribute to their retirement difficulties. One big problem: It's currently estimated that by the time Gen Xers hit their expected retirement age, the Social Security lockbox will have run dry. On the whole, millennials are also a long way from putting together actual retirement plans. To that point, 71 percent of millennial participants in the study said they haven't run an estimate on what it would take for them to exit their careers. This poses a problem, as it's conceivable they will be the generation to receive the least assistance from both employers and government. Figuring out how much you'll need to retire is key; running a plan estimate gives you the best shot of calculating those dollar amounts. While you crunch the numbers, there are also some steps you can take—no matter your age—that could help beef up your portfolio and possibly get you across the retirement finish line in time. These include reducing housing costs, seeking out alternative investments and getting in on the exchange-traded funds gold rush. Pack up and moveOne big difference between Americans saving for retirement today and their parents' generation is debt. Investors boosting their 401(k) balances are simultaneously racking up more debt than previous generations. According to a study by financial-tool website HelloWallet, 60 percent of American households are building up debt faster than retirement savings.The majority of debt held by Main Street is comprised of mortgages. The study was based on a panel of more than 50,000 U.S. households. Although real estate is a long-term investment, its return typically keeps pace with inflation, according to Nobel Prize-winning economist Robert Shiller. New homeowners are finding that their total monthly payments are on the rise. Real estate foreclosure site RealtyTrac found that Americans who bought a three-bedroom house in the last three months of 2013 are now forking over 21 percent more per month in mortgage payments than homeowners did, on average, one year ago. Reducing housing costs is one way to dump some debt and free up cash for your nest egg. There are two practical ways to slash those expenses, said certified financial planner Tim Maurer: relocating and downsizing. Moving out of an expensive abode in a high-cost area—for example, a $1 million three-bedroom ranch in Alexandria, Va.—to a lower-cost region, such as Charlotte, N.C., allows you to maintain a similar standard of living, keeping that three-bedroom ranch or even upgrading, while significantly shedding costs. "The most powerful thing that a person can do to drastically improve their retirement standing in the shortest period of time is to move," said Maurer, director of personal finance at the BAM Alliance. In the above hypothetical move from Virginia to North Carolina, "the prospective retiree is able to add $500,000 dollars to his or her retirement nest egg, an amount capable of upgrading a seemingly hopeless retirement projection into a comfortable one," he added. But moving to a new state is not always practical. For homeowners in that camp, another option could be to "sell down" or move into a smaller, less-expensive dwelling. Maurer said that by making this type of move, "you still derive the benefit of adding the balance to your retirement proceeds and lessening the costs of home ownership going forward." Seek out alternative investmentsIt's undeniable that any investment comes with risk, and diversification is the most obvious way to protect yourself. Even big endowments—with tens of billions of dollars in assets—use alternative investments as a way to hedge. Investing in alternatives such as real estate investment trusts or master limited partnerships tends to provide steady and consistent dividends. There are not too many of these type of investment options available to the average retirement saver, but they do exist. According to the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, the typical 401(k) plan offers no more than 12 alternative investment options.  Trevor Shakiba, president of the private wealth Shakiba Group, does warn that savers shouldn't be too eager to invest heavily in alternatives, because markets, more often than not, are a winning bet. Markets have grown 26 out of the last 34 years, meaning "you have a 75 percent chance that it will go up [rather] than go down," he said. Since alternatives often trail healthy markets, Shakiba recommends allocating around 10 percent—and no more than 20 percent—of these types of investments to their portfolios. If you interested in adding some really exotic alternatives, such as art, antiques or wine, to your 401(k) mix, you're out of luck—the IRS prohibits plan sponsors from offering such investments. Get in on the ETF gold rushGlobally, ETFs and exchange-traded product (ETP) assets under management hit a record $2.3 trillion last year, and their popularity among investors continues to grow—mainly due to low fees and healthy returns. Unlike mutual funds, ETFs typically require minimal management, as they tend to follow indices like the S&amp;P 500. This means that, once up and running, the product essentially runs on autopilot; hence, the smaller fees. Despite ETFs' stellar performance, the Investment Company Institute found that only 3.4 million American households are invested in the asset class. That's probably due in part to the fact that most retirement-plan sponsors are not offering the products, and only a handful of custodial partners—such as TD Ameritrade—are offering ETF options. For those who are unable to jump into the ETF game, the best advice at this point is to petition employers to make such options available. "Plan participants should be asking their chief financial officers to provide them with more low-cost and more transparent options than mutual funds," said Hafeez Esmail, vice president of ETF advisory group Main Management. Esmail, who heads up the investment group's 401(k) business, said that—although it might not be the best option for retirement savers—individuals can take matters into their own hands if they truly want to invest in ETFs. "If you want to go out on your own, you can roll over your plan to an IRA and then take it to another investment firm, managing it yourself," he said. FREE AppDownload
Peter Stanley/National Geographic Traveler Photo ContestIf you've been watching stocks lately, the you know the hottest sub-story in the market is the incredible rise of the fuel cell stocks like Plug Power, Ballard Power, and Fuel Cell Energy, all of which were hot names during the last bubble. They're going bonkers again today in the pre-market. From Matthew Boesler's 10 Things You Need To Know Before The Opening Bell: Fuel cell stocks going crazy in pre-market trading. Fuel cell stocks continue their surge this morning in pre-market trading following FuelCell Energy's announcement of quarterly earnings results. The company's loss of $0.06 per share was slightly worse than expected, but it reported revenues of $44.4 million, topping analysts' $43.4 million consensus estimate. FCEL is trading up over 18% on the news. Plug Power is up 12%. Ballard Power up 10%. Crazy! FREE AppDownload
Calculated RiskHere's some good news for PIMCO, which has been realing in the departure of Mohamed El-Erian and some bizarre statements made by Bill Gross: The Newport Beach, CA-based bond firm has just hired credit guru Harley Bassman from Credit Suisse. From Bloomberg: Bassman, who calls himself “The Convexity Maven,” told clients in a note obtained by Bloomberg News that he was ending his 30-year career on Wall Street’s “sell side” and joining the “buy side” so he could “more directly implement my ideas for broad-minded investors.” He’ll start at Pimco’s Newport Beach, California, headquarters in July, reporting to Josh Thimons and Steve Rodosky, the firm said in a statement yesterday. On his website, Convexitymaven.com, Bassman reveals his life mantra: For those of you who are meeting me for the first time, let me recite my Mantra: 1) It is ALWAYS about character.2) It is NEVER different this time. 3) You are born; you live; and then you die. Prioritize you life. My goal is to synthesize large ideas into reasonable investment themes by taking a dispassionate view of the entire landscape and to avoid being distracted by short-term noise (local volatility). Most importantly, to use Common Sense, a skill that is not of great value during formal schooling, but is the fulcrum of real life. If you are still reading this site, you can afford to take a vacation and enjoy your family. Remember, family trumps work. Those extra few dollars cannot replace "kid time". The graveyards are full of indispensable people (and you know I mean you). While this is certainly not "G-d's work", I do believe I provide some value to society. I hope some of the notions I expound will help you to do the same. hb Hard to argue with  much of that. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Baz RatnerSoldiers, believed to be Russian, ride on military armoured personnel carriers on a road near the Crimean port city of Sevastopol March 10, 2014. Good morning. Here's what you need to know. Fuel cell stocks going crazy in pre-market trading. Fuel cell stocks continue their surge this morning in pre-market trading following FuelCell Energy's announcement of quarterly earnings results. The company's loss of $0.06 per share was slightly worse than expected, but it reported revenues of $44.4 million, topping analysts' $43.4 million consensus estimate. FCEL is trading up over 18% on the news. Small business optimism tumbles. NFIB's Small Business Optimism Index fell to 91.4 in February from 94.1 in January. The consensus forecast of market economists predicted a smaller moderation to 93.8. "Small business optimism continues its winter hibernation with the latest Index dropping 2.7 points to 91.4, a reading that historically has been associated with recessions and periods of sub-par growth," said Bill Dunkelberg, chief economist at NFIB, in a press release. "The one highlight in the January survey, a surge in hiring plans, was crushed in February by the continued onslaught of a wintry recovery now in its 5th year."  Markets are quiet. S&amp;P 500 and U.S. Treasury futures are pointing to an unchanged open. Gold is up a bit, trading around $1348 an ounce. The German DAX and the Italian FTSE MIB are up, but most other European indices are in the red. Overnight, the Japanese Nikkei 225 rose 0.7% and Chinese indices eked out gains. Nothing from the BoJ. The Bank of Japan elected to refrain from introducing any new policy measures at the conclusion of its latest meeting on monetary policy, as expected, and the U.S. dollar is unchanged against the Japanese yen this morning. "The assessments of the economy in the statement were marginally changed, upgrading those on the fixed investments and the industrial productions slightly while downgrading the one on the exports," says Osamu Takashima, a strategist at Citi. "All in all, the positive tone in the assessments is unchanged, which justifies the Bank's conservative stance toward additional measures. Our economists in Tokyo see a 80% possibility of the next action at the June or July meetings while also seeing a 20% risk at the April meeting, after the consumption tax hike." Mobile price wars. In an interview with Charlie Rose, SoftBank tycoon Masayoshi Son said he wanted to buy T-Mobile's U.S. unit and engage in a price war with wireless carriers AT&amp;T and Verizon. SoftBank already owns a controlling stake in Sprint. "If I can have the real fight, I go in a more massive price war," said Son. "I want to be number one. So if we are number three, and if we have enough chance, I want to be number one. So I would go to price competition, very much aggressively." German surpluses. Germany recorded a 16.2 billion euro current account surplus in January, down from December's 21.1 billion euro surplus but above consensus estimates of a 15.3 billion euro surplus. German exports rose 2.2% and imports rose 4.1% — both above expectations — narrowing Germany's trade surplus to 17.2 billion euros from 18.3 billion euros. Final read on Italian GDP. Revised data released today revealed that Italian GDP rose 0.1% on a work-day adjusted basis in the fourth quarter of 2013, in line with previous official and market estimates. Year-over-year GDP growth, however, was revised down to -0.9% from -0.8%. Muted U.K. industrial production. U.K. industrial production rose 0.1% from the previous month in January, marking a slowdown from December's 0.5% pace of expansion and missing estimates for a 0.2% gain. The year-over-year rate of industrial output growth was 2.9%, also slightly below consensus estimates. "The floods are thought to have distorted the data, but the take away is that the U.K. is still enjoying relatively robust economic activity," says Marc Chandler, global head of currency strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman. "Several BoE officials testify before the parliament, but their general stance is known, and barring a surprise, is unlikely to change the market's direction." Second-tier U.S. economic data. There are no major releases on the U.S. economic data calendar today. However, the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics will release the results of the latest Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey — a favorite metric of new Fed chair Janet Yellen's — at 10 AM ET. January wholesale inventories data are also out at 10 AM. Mid-month supply calendar begins. The U.S. Treasury will auction $30 billion of 3-year notes today at 1 PM ET. "With some short covering around/after the stronger-than-expected U.S. jobs number, positioning should be cleaner, and given supply-related concession, the UST market may get biased lower in this relatively data-light week," say Nomura interest rate strategists. "Given all but one of the 3-year auctions since last July have come through the 1 PM mark, we expect this auction to go well, especially given lingering geopolitical uncertainties." FREE AppDownload
Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesPity the book doesn’t live up to it. Or, indeed, provide us with any clear indication of whether the company best known for its iPhones and iPads (let’s call it an “empire” for convenience) is indeed haunted. I’d really like to know whether rank and file employees at Apple’s Cupertino headquarters constantly look over their shoulder, troubled by the question of whether “Steve would” (or wouldn’t) “have done that”. Reading the author’s note that leads the book, you expect the answer to be a shoo-in. Yukari Iwatani Kane is a former Wall Street Journal reporter (an imprimatur that demands precision in facts), who covered Apple from about 2011 for that paper. She’s quick to point out that “although I had access to the company’s media events and some of its executives during my reporting for the newspaper, Apple chose not to grant any further access apart from one shareholders’ meeting.” Presumably, that’s “further access” sought because she was writing a book. Reality check: Apple doesn’t give special access to anyone, unless they’re writing Steve Jobs’s biography. And that chance has gone. But fear not, says Kane: “Even so, I was able to draw from more than two hundreds interviews with nearly two hundred sources who have firsthand knowledge of Apple’s world in the United States, Europe and Asia. They include Apple executives and employees - past and present...” At this, the reader perks up: surely we’re going to hear about whether the empire that Steve Jobs built is, you know, haunted? Certainly that “200 interviews” figure sounds impressive. In 2011 I wrote “Digital Wars” (published 2012, second edition - updated to February 2014 - imminent) contrasting how Apple, Microsoft and Google’s management and development style had helped or hindered their progress in search, digital music, smartphones, tablets and (in the new edition) China. I haven’t tried to count up how many interviews I carried out over the years leading up to it. It might be 200. It might be less. I’d never try to do a headcount, though. Doing so seems distinctly strange, to be honest; it’s as though the writer is nudging us to put our faith into the sheer number. Never mind the quality, feel the width. Apple is - let’s be clear - a difficult company to report on. Far more so than any other, it has a cult of secrecy, not only about when and what new or updated products it will launch, but also about its workings and internal interactions; you don’t get documentaries taking you around Jonathan Ive’s design labs. Apple cultivates mystique, and prefers to let its devices do the talking. That’s also why there’s a ready market for books which try to lift the lid on what does go on there. For which, I’d definitely recommend a short but highly worthwhile ebook, “Design Crazy” by Max Chafkin, which is entirely made up of interviews with former Apple staff and observers (perhaps as many as 200 - I didn’t count) and explaining how the company designs products, the fights that has sometimes caused, and how they are resolved. It will tell you far more about Apple as it was and is than Kane’s book. Also helpful is “Jony Ive” by Leander Kahney - though I found it a little too admiring where Chafkin’s is astringent. The problem is this: Steve Jobs was a compelling figure. There was nobody quite like him in technology because he had had the success (with Apple in its early days) and the failure (with NeXT, his next startup), and returned to make Apple a success again, pulling it back by its shirttails as it teetered on the cliff of bankruptcy (from which it was only 90 days away in 1996 when he rejoined). He could spin plausible lines, and near-enough lies, and enthuse people into believing him. As a manager, he was by all accounts ruthless, charming and terrifying. His death has highlighted how none of the Apple executives quite has his ability to hold a stage and spin a story. This much is known. Tim Cook, picked by Jobs, often looks ill at ease on stage. He’s regarded as a numbers guy, the man who helped pull Apple out of that nosedive in the late 1990s (he joined in 1998) and since then has grown it to be the only other company besides the gigantic conglomerate Samsung which can turn out more than 50m smartphones for sale in a single three-month period. I read this book hoping to get a clearer picture of Cook. But as with many areas, the books fails to give that. We are treated to some quite routine biography about his upbringing in Alabama, from which we learn nothing useful save that he thinks you get ahead through hard work (I’m guessing at least 10 interviews were spent on that). He’s tough on other executives and on suppliers. Well, yes. I also found it puzzling that so much of the book - about the first 90 pages of a 338-pager - were about the with-Jobs Apple, even including those 1990s escapades. Isn’t this well-known? Perhaps not, but while it offered a couple of little nuggets, it noticeably lacked insight into the design process, or indeed any process inside the company. Once Jobs dies, though, things fall apart. Not Apple - the book. (In passing, could I say that I really detest the use of the word “passing” for “death”? It just sounds mimsy, as though the writer is worried about upsetting an audience of maiden aunts. People die. It’s death. It’s natural.) There’s no clear narrative structure; no portrait is painted. Kane jumps about all over the shop. Jobs dies, and we go to China, where Apple’s “supply chain” which assembles iDevices mostly lies. Then we’re at Buckingham Palace and learning a little more about Jonathan Ive, the head of design, a linchpin in the company. Then we’re pondering whether Siri, Apple’s voice-driven “assistant”, is a flop or a flier, and if so (either way) whose responsibility that was. Here’s the problem with the latter chapter, which is quite typical of many: the acquisition of the Siri technology happened while Jobs was alive. Did he OK that acquisition? He certainly used it before he died, though the phone using it hadn’t been released. So... are Siri’s limitations down to Jobs? Or not? Those 200 interviews provide no answer - though there is the tantalizing nugget that the team behind Siri has an entire backstory worked out for it, which can in theory be teased out by asking the right questions. With Siri sort-of done, we jump - for no apparent reason - to Apple’s patent battle with Samsung, which spilled over into courtrooms. Here, I feel Kane shows a lack of insight into the subtle complications of patents (they’re not all born equal; and Apple can’t sue Google over features in the Android software, but can sue companies which sell physical things that embody Android software). Again she doesn’t answer how strongly Apple’s executives post-Jobs feel about the whole patent thing. My impression, having talked to them since Jobs’s death, is that they’re just as determined to pursue the cases. People outside Apple may view that as quixotic, but inside they clearly don’t. You wouldn’t discover that from the book, though. Then we jump (why?) to Clayton Christensen, the high priest of disruption theory. This chapter immediately undermines itself by quoting Chistensen from 2007 saying that the iPhone would fail. Remind us - how did that play out again? Kane, however, tries to shore up her interviewee’s position by saying that by 2013 “he was starting to look prescient as Apple’s iPhone and iPad began to steadily lose market share to Android smartphones and tablets.” At this, my teeth began to grind. So six years on, Christensen had been vindicated in his prediction (quoted in the chapter) that “the existing players in the industry are heavily motivated to beat [the iPhone]”? Nonsense. Android phones weren’t on sale when the iPhone arrived. Apple and Android, have swept away all the mobile OSs that existed then, and many of the companies that sold them: Nokia has dwindled, BlackBerry is on life support, Palm is gone, Windows Mobile is dead, and no mobile OS introduced since 2009 has had any significant impact on the market. There’s iOS, and there’s Android, which looks and feels a lot like iOS, because the Android engineers in 2007 who were building a BlackBerry-alike watched Steve Jobs unveil the iPhone and realized they needed to change course damn fast, and - to their vast credit - did. And “market share”? The trouble with that metric is that it overlooks two things: who’s earning the profits (and so who can afford to stay in the market), and whether the company whose market share is being eroded might perhaps be doing better, year-on-year, than before because the overall market is expanding. I’ve written at length on why “market share” is a crude, often misleading metric. Apple is selling more phones annually, and gaining in overall mobile market share - but it’s losing smartphone market share because the smartphone market is growing. Apple has however got a giant chunk of mobile profits, so it can keep expanding while companies like HTC, Sony, LG and Motorola nurse losses and struggle. The same holds in tablets: Apple truly doesn’t care if a zillion $50 tablets are sold. It just won’t compete for the wafer-thin profits (if any) at that price. It’ll stick with selling fewer tablets for more profit to people who want a premium device. If that’s a company in trouble - well, we’d all like that problem. But if you don’t understand that Apple doesn’t care about market share in that way, you don’t understand Apple at all. From Christensen we’re off to China, again for no discernible reason - it tells us nothing about how Apple’s executives and staff think about how their roles might have changed since Jobs’s death - and then to a dull recap of the Apple-Samsung trial of summer 2012 (lawyers’ court arguments don’t make good reading; they’re just posturing) and then to the launch of the iPhone 5 in September 2012. By this time, Kane has pretty much decided that because Apple’s current lineup doesn’t contain Steve Jobs, that it’s a busted flush. Unveiling the iPhone 5 in 2012, Cook is wooden on stage. Schiller’s touting of its larger screen (compared to previous iPhones) was - apparently - a jab at Samsung’s Galaxy Note. I missed that reference myself, though I was watching the same presentation. And “[Schiller’s] remark signaled Apple’s increasing vulnerability”. Huh? The iPhone 5 sold more than any previous iPhone. Vulnerability to what? I found the bizarre attribution of meaning to events which didn’t seem to have meaning more and more intrusive. I also found it incongruous to have an American journalist from the WSJ offering her own interpretations; I thought it was an article of faith in that trade to get someone else to express your opinions - just choose carefully so they’re the ones you wanted to express anyway. But hardly any experts are quoted in the whole book; a pity, as they could have provided a narrative framework. More to the point, didn’t any of Kane’s 200 interviewees or her time on the WSJ team reporting on Apple uncover anything about the tension inside the company about the iPhone 5? It simultaneously changed the screen size and dumped the 30-pin connector it had used since 2003, replacing it with a thinner 8-pin one that was incompatible with hundreds of millions of third-party boom boxes. For third-party developers, it meant rewriting their apps just to fit the iPhone 5 screen, which was longer but not wider. For makers of music players, it meant redesigns and inventory headaches. Would Steve Jobs have done that? Post-Jobs Apple did, with the same lack of compunction with which Jobs used to hand out mandates. Does that mean it’s haunted by the spirit of Jobs (would he had done it)? Or not? After the skirmish with the iPhone 5 comes the disaster of the Apple Maps launch. But here again, there’s none of the background of the vicious manoeuvring between Apple and Google that led to Apple kicking Google off the iPhone 5 for both video and maps. A giant failing of this book is its focus only on Apple. You simply can’t write about its position without also writing about Google and Microsoft and their ambitions, at the very least. Their strategies are so interlocked, with each feinting while also trying to move to places the other wants to reach, that any examination of them in isolation is a map without landmarks. Nor is there any insight into what people thought inside Apple about the maps debacle. Would it have “never happened with Steve”? Or was it because of his Google-hatin’ ways? (Neither, actually. Jobs would have done what Cook did: OK’d it, apologized for the mess, and fired and torn strips off people internally. Jobs did just that on other failures.) Kane also falls prey to simplistic interpretation, thinking that because Google offered a maps app for the iPhone, that it would be a hit. That overlooks the power of defaults. (Google Maps is now hardly used on the iPhone compared to Apple Maps.) You have to understand how people use technology to give your readers context. The book lumbers on, through a riot in China (I had no idea what the point of the chapter was), to a chapter on the talkative foreman of the Samsung-Apple trial post-verdict and how Apple’s win wasn’t much of a win at all, to one called “Critical Mass” which isn’t really about anything specific, to “Holy Grail” which is actually about Apple’s taxes (yet again omits the unholy row going on in other countries over lots of US companies’ taxes) and then diverts into the antitrust decision over Apple’s attempts to get book publishers to go with its pricing model for ebooks on the iPad. What’s the inclusion of the latter subject trying to show? Kane’s overarching thesis is that without Steve Jobs, Apple is doomed to a downward spiral as innovation and staff leak out. (No information is offered on the latter, not even from the job site Glassdoor.com, but hey ho.) The ebooks decision though largely grew from Jobs’s intrusions into the negotiations - one of his draft emails was a crucial piece of prosecution evidence. So should we conclude that post-Jobs, Apple won’t make stupid antitrust-breaching decisions? Or is it that his acts hang over the company like a pall - in which case, wouldn’t staff welcome moving on to new ground? Kane seems to want it both ways. Everything Jobs did was wonderful, except the stuff that left Apple screwed when it tried to do anything else. This, though, rests on the concept of the Immaculate Jobs, which anyone who’s covered Apple for any time will tell you is bunk. Tons of mistakes happened under his watch; and he could be as shortsighted as anyone, the two biggest examples being that he didn’t want third-party apps on the iPhone, and he didn’t want the iPod to work on Windows. If he’d prevailed, he would have sunk the company. By this stage of the book (page 307) I was reading through whatever the visual equivalent of gritted teeth is. “The Red Chair” details, excruciatingly, Tim Cook’s hey-he’s-not-as-cool-as-Steve-Jobs appearance at the All Things D conference in May 2013. Kane clearly thinks he did poorly by not leaping to his feet and announcing a new iThing, or giving the crowd some ole Southern charm like a Bill Clinton of technology. Cook basically didn’t have a lot to tell people, because Apple wasn’t going to release a new product category in 2013. Cook did offer a head fake by talking about how “wearables” are “interesting” (perhaps thus driving Samsung to hurriedly release its critically panned Galaxy Gear “smartwatch”). She then heads to the June 2013 Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC) in San Francisco, where apparently “Apple was revealing its true nature: the endless self-congratulation, the perpetual breeziness so obviously straining to respond to roiling doubts.” Apple hardly has a monopoly on self-congratulatory breeziness in Silicon Valley - have you read a blogpost from Yahoo, Google or pretty much any startup recently? - but from where I sat in the media pen of the same audience, I didn’t feel a fog of roiling doubts overhead. Apple is a bit like the weather: it doesn’t work by other peoples’ timetables. It just does stuff when it’s ready. Having written about all three of Apple, Microsoft and Google since the 1990s, I know that each has its own rhythms for releasing stuff. In Google’s case, it’s pretty much no rhythm; stuff just bursts out when someone hits a button. Microsoft moves in a lockstep. And Apple fiddles with it until it’s done. But for someone with a thesis and a book deadline, that’s not enough. One could play “what if?” - what if Apple had launched a wearable something or a new set-top box last April? Would that have exorcised the ghost that Kane seems sure haunts the corridors of 1 Infinite Loop? I suspect not. After all, any new Apple product launch is met by derision - the iPod was too pricey and had too little storage, the iPhone was an overpriced gewgaw from a company new to mobile, the iPad was just a big iPod Touch. No doubt the next iThing will attract much the same derision from plenty of outlets, but the real test - how it gets used, and by how many people, and whether it’s profitable enough to continue with - won’t be known for some time. But someone who needs a quick hit saying that Apple’s well has run dry will find plenty of material. Kane manages this with the book’s epilogue, which mentions the iPhone 5S with its fingerprint sensor in a single line. Apparently a new feature that loads of people use and which enhances their security (most phone users don’t use passcodes) and which comes from a company (Authentec) bought after Steve Jobs died, well, that’s not interesting. But the lower-priced iPhone 5C and its failure to mimic hot cakes sales-wise in its first month? Now you’ve got something doomy to write about! (Sales of the 5C have picked up since the new year, following price cuts. You’d almost think Apple had some sort of strategy there rather than doing this stuff randomly.) The “gold iPhone” is compared unfavorably to blue-sky research from Google on understanding death, which was enthusiastically hyped up by tech bloggers. Only one of those two things, though, is on sale now; the other might never happen. Google kills a lot of projects, in case people had forgotten. Do you prefer your innovation in the palm of your hand, or in an uncertain future? Ultimately, I was unsatisfied by this book. Still, as I say, it’s a great title. I’d still like to know whether staff at Apple rue the day, and wish ol’ Steve was still there - or if they just shrug and say “yeah, got stuff to do right now” and move on. Trouble is, this book won’t tell you. Perhaps someone else will one day. • Haunted Empire: Apple After Steve Jobs by Yukari Iwatani Kane: £16 from the Guardian bookshop • Design Crazy by Max Chafkin: £0.99 (iBooks; Amazon Kindle) • Jony Ive by Leander Kahney: £11.99 from the Guardian bookshop (also on iBooks; Amazon; Amazon Kindle) • Digital Wars: Apple, Google, Microsoft and the Battle for the Internet by Charles Arthur (£11.99 from the Guardian bookshop; second edition available from 3 May) This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Brendan McDermidVia Dave Lutz at Stifel, Nicolaus, here's a look at what traders are talking about today: US Futures are slightly lower, and near the lows of the overnight. Aside from the DAX, which has been a major underperformer, all the EU markets are in the red. The persistent bid in Fincnaials is evident in EU, where the sector is trading unchanged despite some “aggressive” headlines on stress tests from the ECB. Volumes in Europe are trading light, anywhere from 20-325% below recent 20day averages. Stress persists in Ukraine, Russia is off 2.5% after being closed yesterday for Holiday – and is approaching 1Y lows. We have seen heavy inflows into the RSX, Russian Equity ETF – mostly done for short-creates. In Asia, Nikkei rallied 70bp as BOJ stood pat, and China managed a bounce as the Yuan rallied from recent weakness. The Aussie market closed unchanged, but Miners were under pressure again despite upbeat comments from Rio and BHP. Ahead of our Thursday print, watch Retailers as UK retail sales come in light – “Weather” related impact the theme du jour. Alt-Energy will trade heavy today, as FCEL (I’m long) is surging 22% on earnings, dragging PLUG up 12%+. Watch the insurers, as they plead to US congress to stop the Federal Reserve from imposing bank- like capital standards on their industry. The 10YY is flat, staging a close above its 50dma – but Credit players are focused on the Puerto Rico issuance today – the largest sale of junk bonds on record. The Yen had a quiet session, as BOJ acted as anticipated – but the € is weaker against the $, reversing the recent surge higher. The DXY remains below the “80” level, but its current strength is a headwind for commodities. That said, we have Industrial commodities rallying as China growth concerns recede – Nickel, Silver and Copper are all 50bp+ higher. Some Ukraine stress, coupled with the recent pop in Inflation Expectations of the US Bond Market has Gold higher, testing 4M highs again this AM. Energy commodities are all stronger, with Brent slightly outpacing WTI into our inventory numbers after the close today. Catalysts today include NFIB Small Business Optimism at 7:30, JOLTs Job Openings and Wholesale Inventories at 10, the week’s smallest POMO at 11, a 3Y auction at 1, and API Data for Crude at 4:30. FREE AppDownload
Yoshikazu Tsuno/AFP/FilePresident of Japan's mobile carrier Softbank Masayoshi Son at a news conference announcing Softbank will acquire US-based Sprint Nextel in Tokyo on October 15, 2012.The Japanese owner of US mobile carrier Sprint said Monday he wanted to launch a "price war" with the two major carriers as he seeks to acquire T-Mobile's US unit. Masayoshi Son, the tycoon whose SoftBank company holds a controlling stake in Sprint, confirmed his reported interest in T-Mobile, whose parent company is Germany's Deutsche Telekom, in an interview broadcast on US public television. Son, while declining to discuss details, said that he wanted to go head-to-head and undercut US giants AT&amp;T and Verizon, replicating his aggressive strategy of sacrificing short-term profit while pursuing a greater market share. "I would like to have the real fight, not the pseudo-fight," Son told "The Charlie Rose Show." "If I can have the real fight, I go in a more massive price war," he said. "I want to be number one. So if we are number three, and if we have enough chance, I want to be number one. So I would go to price competition, very much aggressively," he said. Sprint, the third-ranking US carrier, closed a deal in July that allowed SoftBank to take a controlling stake for $21.6 billion -- the largest overseas acquisition ever by a Japanese company. Japan's Nikkei business daily reported in December that SoftBank was in talks to acquire T-Mobile US, which would make it the world's second largest mobile carrier after China Mobile. But any such deal would be expected to face close scrutiny by US regulators in charge of ensuring competition. AT&amp;T in 2011 sought to buy T-Mobile for $39 billion but backed down in the face of regulatory opposition. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Several U.S. institutional investors said they are closely monitoring the developments at Pimco, the world's largest bond firm, in the wake of Mohamed El-Erian's abrupt resignation as CEO and ensuing acrimony between him and co-founder Bill Gross. The investors, including retirement systems, have formally put Pimco on "watch lists," a signal that they will keep a much closer eye its performance than usual. It could eventually lead to reductions in the amount of money they allocate to funds at the firm, whose full name is Pacific Investment Management Co and which has $1.91 trillion in assets. "We intend to go out and meet with them over the course of the next month," said David Hunter, chief investment officer of the North Dakota State Investment Board. The board, which has about $400 million invested with Pimco, put the fund on its watch list on February 28. Hunter said the board could ultimately decide not to make any changes to its allocation. The California Public Employees' Retirement System, the largest U.S. pension fund, said it had not placed Pimco on a formal watch list, but it was also paying close attention to developments. "CalPERS staff has tremendous respect for the staff at Pimco," the system said in an emailed statement. "That being said, we are monitoring the issue and will keep our board aware of the changes." In a statement, Pimco CEO Douglas Hodge said: "We are focused on communication with our clients, and have been in regular contact with them following the recent leadership transition. They understand the changes we have taken and why, and are ready to move forward with us." In a Tweet on Monday, Gross wrote, "No distractions here - just long term performance satisfaction - working hard as always for clients." The closer scrutiny by state and local pension systems shows that Gross, though, may have more work to do to assuage investor concerns after El-Erian's surprise departure and reports of growing discord between the two men amid weak fund performance. Overall, customers withdrew $41.1 billion from Pimco's flagship Total Return Fund last year, a record amount for the manager, according to investment research firm Morningstar. The fund posted another $1.6 billion in outflows in February, reducing assets to $236 billion and marking the 10th straight month of outflows. The Total Return Fund, which Gross manages, trailed more than 70 percent of its peers in February. Last month, a Wall Street Journal article described the worsening relationship between the two men as Pimco's performance deteriorated. Later, Gross told Reuters that El-Erian, who is due to leave the firm in less than a week, was trying to "undermine" him by talking to the Journal. A memo from investment consultant NEPC to the City of Fresno Retirement System Joint Boards noted "an elevated level of concern" around the changes at Pimco. During a recent on-site visit to the bond firm's offices, "it was clear that there was a profound sense of disappointment and surprise within Pimco regarding Mr. El-Erian's departure," the memo said, adding: "Mr. Gross viewed Mr. El-Erian as his successor and during the meeting he expressed a level of sadness and frustration regarding the resignation." The Fresno systems were already weighing investing with Pimco when news of El-Erian's departure, as well as other staff changes, came out. When the city wanted reassurance on organizational questions, Pimco sent a team to the Fresno offices. The Fresno systems are now negotiating with Pimco and expect to invest money with the firm in coming months. "You're talking a lot of depth (of the bench). It's not driven by two people," said Stanley McDivitt, the systems' retirement administrator. Other investors said they were not in a rush to make changes to their allocations. The Florida State Board of Administration spokesman Dennis MacKee said it placed Pimco on its watch list as a routine procedure, which it followed for any firm that was undergoing management shifts. The Florida board has about $1.7 billion in its pension fund at Pimco and about $240 million from its defined contribution plan with the firm. "We think of our watch list as just enhanced oversight. You look a little deeper," MacKee said. Neil Rue, a managing director at Pension Consulting Alliance, said it was too early to make any decisions about how these changes might affect Pimco's performance. "On the fixed income front, we told our clients don't take any major action, but we need to watch this closely," Rue said. If Pimco's style remains consistent, given Gross' strong track record over many years, there may be no changes recommended, Rue added. R. T. Jones Capital Equities Management Inc Chief Investment Officer Steve Davis said his fund pulled out $100 million from Pimco Total Return Fund last year because of a desire to reduce duration exposure and interest rate risk, but he would consider returning to the bond giant in the future. "Nor do we think the internal turmoil will negatively affect the performance of the fund. In fact, we don't rule out using the fund again in the future," Davis said. "We have very high respect for Bill Gross and his team at Pimco." (Editing by Paritosh Bansal and Martin Howell) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersNorth Korean leader Kim Jong-un waves to the people during a parade in PyongyangSEOUL (Reuters) - North Korea has developed sophisticated countermeasures to circumvent U.N. sanctions, including the suspected use of its embassies to facilitate the illegal trade in weapons, according to a United Nations report. North Korean embassies in Cuba and Singapore were suspected by the eight member U.N. panel of experts of facilitating the country's banned arms trade, including a shipment of fighter jets and missile parts that were seized in Panama last July. The report also pointed to the use of more developed financial countermeasures used to mask the purchase of both banned and permitted goods. (Reporting by James Pearson. Editing by Dean Yates) FREE AppDownload
I wouldn’t be surprised if we see all of a sudden a report come out, “Hey, we’ve got a balanced budget in California.” At the time that was way out of the consensus view. And a couple of months later California announced a balanced budget, see The California Budget SurplusThe situation has improved since then. Here is the most recent update from California State Controller John Chiang: Controller Releases February Cash Update State Controller John Chiang today released his monthly report covering California's cash balance, receipts and disbursements in February 2014. Revenues for the month totaled $5.6 billion, surpassing estimates in the 2014-15 Governor's Budget by $968.9 million, or 20.9 percent. "Driven by strong retail sales and personal income tax withholdings, February receipts poured in at nearly $1 billion above projections," said Chiang. "How we conserve and invest during the upswings of California's notorious boom-or-bust revenue cycles will determine how critical programs – such as public safety and education – will weather the next economic dip. With fiscal discipline and a focus on slashing debt, we can make California more recession-resistant and prosperity a more enduring hallmark of our state." Income tax receipts exceeded the Governor’s expectations by $721.7 million, or 45.7 percent. Corporate tax receipts came in ahead of estimates by $87.4 million, or 236.2 percent. Sales and use taxes were $113.7 million above, or 3.9 percent, expectations in the Governor's 2014-15 proposed budget.The State ended the month with a General Fund cash deficit of $14.1 billion, which was covered with both internal and external borrowing. That figure was down from last year, when the State faced a cash deficit of $16.2 billion at the end of February 2013.emphasis added This is just one state, but I expect local and state governments (in the aggregate) to add to both GDP and employment in 2014. FREE AppDownload
BEIJING (AP) — Companies including Internet giants Alibaba and Tencent have been picked to set up China's first five privately owned banks, the industry's chief regulator said Tuesday. The banks, part of sweeping reform plans announced last year, will be expected to operate independently and according to market principles, said Shang Fulin, chairman of the China Banking Regulatory Commission. Regulators announced last year that Beijing would allow the creation of privately financed banks as part of efforts to make the economy more productive by giving market forces a bigger role. An overhaul of China's state-dominated financial system is expected to be at the core of changes the ruling Communist Party says are the most ambitious since the launch of market-style reforms in 1979. Reform advocates complain state banks are holding back the world's No. 2 economy by failing to lend to entrepreneurs who create its new jobs and wealth. Premier Li Keqiang, the country's top economic official, promised this week to give market forces a "decisive role" in allocating credit and other resources in hopes of nurturing more sustainable long-term growth. Each new bank will be expected to have at least two private investors, Shang said at a news conference. He said preparatory work still was underway and gave no timetable for when they would open. Alibaba Group is one of the world's biggest online commerce companies. Tencent Holdings Ltd. is China's most popular online games service. Both have launched popular online financial services that have drawn deposits away from banks by paying higher interest. Critics accuse them of hurting state-owned banks and a commentator for state television called them "financial parasites." But Li, the premier, threw the party's support behind them, pledging in an annual policy speech this week to promote growth of online financial services. In addition to Alibaba and Tencent, the ruling party newspaper People's Daily said the 10 companies picked in the first group to invest in private banks include Wanxiang Group, an auto parts maker; Fosun Group, a conglomerate that owns French tourism company Club Med and Huabei Group, a real estate developer. The new institutions will be expected to focus on lending to small- and medium-size companies, Shang said, using the Communist Party's term for private business. They will be required to have adequate risk controls, reserves to insure against losses and a "living will," or plans to wind up a failed bank, to prevent the burden from falling on taxpayers, Shang said. Also Tuesday, the central bank governor said Beijing is likely to ease controls on interest rates paid on bank savings within two years. That would allow banks to compete for deposits and put more money in Chinese families' pockets. "Liberalization of deposit rates, this should be the last step in interest rate marketization," said Zhou Xiaochuan. "I personally believe it is very possible to realize this within one to two years." Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mikhail Metzel/RIA Novosti/KremlinMore evidence that Putin's ventures into Ukraine are going to cost him a lot. Citi is predicting a massive GDP slowdown due to it: from 2.6% to 1.0%. We downgrade GDP growth on heightened uncertainty. The rising tensions in Ukraine  make for a very challenging backdrop to the Russian economy, creating substantial downside risks to economic performance. The combination of more subdued investment and consumption spending related to heightened uncertainty, and tighter monetary policy, lead us to downgrade our 2014 GDP forecast from 2.6% to 1.0% (1.3% in 2013). Investment spending will be the key avenue via which market volatility will affect growth performance. The sectoral breakdown of last year’s investment suggested that private-sector consumption-related investment has been growing, while it was oil and gas investment that was holding back overall investment activity. Our more positive view on 2014 GDP was critically dependent on the assumption that government-led oil and gas investment would come out of its 2013 doldrums, with new projects coming on stream. However, given the uncertain backdrop, we now have much less confidence about this scenario playing out, even if, in principle, the government may feel more pressure to ‘take control’ of SOE investment plans. We, therefore, cut our real investment growth forecast to zero from 3.8% previously Another element that hurts is the fact that Russia's Central Bank has been forced to tighten significantly to defend the ruble. Putin will pay. FREE AppDownload
Malaysian police said Tuesday they had identified one of two men who boarded a missing Malaysian jet with fake passports as a 19-year-old Iranian believed to be seeking to emigrate to Germany. "We believe he is not likely to be a member of any terror group and we believe he was trying to migrate to Germany," said Malaysia's national police chief Khalid Abu Bakar. Khalid said authorities had not yet identified the other man.   FREE AppDownload
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service HeadquartersSouth Fork of Koyukuk River, AlaskaGood morning! The vibe today is very different than it was yesterday.  Things are very quiet. Asia saw modest, but unmemorable gains while US futures are essentially flat. Currency markets aren't moving very much.  It's a light wek for economic data, though today we get the JOLTS report, which shows the level of new Job Openings and Quits in the economy which should be pretty interesting.  Mostly just a subdued, ho-hum day. FREE AppDownload
