    All year round American tourists flocks to European cities and towns to sample regional delicacies and experience the local culture.  While navigating the unfamiliar cobble stone streets and botching the local language, another strange element of street life that stands out is fashion. For men in particular, the striking contrast between the tailored European versus the casual, laid-back American attire is immediately apparent.  Here's our roundup of some of the most popular, and sometimes strange, fashion trends of European men. Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis and Kamelia Angelova. Originally published in July 2013. FREE AppDownload
Screenshot / Road Trip Nation Silicon Valley is home to rockstars like Yahoo CEO Marissa Mayer and Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg. But over the last year, many new faces made a name for themselves in Silicon Valley. Some of these unfamiliar faces are trying to tackle HIV, whereas others are tasked with leading major divisions at Apple.    FREE AppDownload
We caught up with billionaire entrepreneur and investor Mark Cuban during South by Southwest Interactive in Austin. Our first question: what apps does the "Shark Tank" star and Dallas Mavericks owner have on his smartphone? His answer will surprise you.Produced by Graham Flanagan.FOLLOW BI VIDEO: on Twitter.
AP ImagesWe recently shared "22 Phrases Only Wall Streeters Will Understand", which was basically an encyclopedia of some of the classic and unusual slang terms used by finance folks.  The thing about Wall Street, though, is that it's incredibly diverse. There are the floor brokers, the pit traders, the investment bankers, the research analysts, the quants, the hedge funders and the private equity folks, just the name a few. That means not every group will understand all of those phrases.  We spoke to a former bond broker, who will remain anonymous, about the type of slang they use with each other. Brokers tend to be a pretty colorful group as you can see with the slang that's used below:   "Piker"  A piker is a guy without money.  Brokers use it to identify crappy clients.  "That guy is a piker. He buys ten bonds--and calls me twice a day! I'm firing him as a client."  "Real Guy" This is the opposite of a piker.  Wall Street brokers don't say "Whale" much because it makes you sound like a jerk, and guys in the know want to sound understated.  "What's the story with Mr. Jones? Is this guy another piker?"  "Trust me: He's a real guy."  "No Bid" On a Bloomberg terminal, thinly traded bonds don't always get a bid. They're not like trading shares of big blue-chip stocks like IBM. You may get a price you don't like on IBM, but you can always get a price. With bonds, sometimes the Bloomberg terminal would read NB — No Bid.   Bond brokers will use this in their everyday conversations. "Come on dude. She's my girlfriend's roommate. It's just one night."  "Dude, no bid."  "Dog Snot" Dog snot are the junkiest of junk bonds that nobody wants.  "I'm no bid on that tax dog snot."  "Pick up the f-------g phones!"  The cold callers are dialing fast enough as it is. But when the head of the desk yells that in the middle of the day, it's terrifying. Nobody wants to be the guy on the desk spacing out when the head yells "Pick up the f-------g phones!"  "YTB"  This is a classic. Bonds are traded on a YTM (Yield to Maturity) basis. There are all kinds of other yields in the bond market.  The most cynical acronym on earth is YTB— "Yield To Broker."  Why? Well, when trading desks are pushing "dog snot" products the brokers will ask: "What's the YTB?" When they do, they're basically asking, "How much are you going to pay me to unload this crap into my clients account?"  If you pull that, you might get "dinged."  "Dinged"  Getting "dinged" is how brokers refer to FINRA sanctions.   If you get "dinged" one to many times of you aren't making money for the desk someone will say this about you...   "Left the city, left the business."  If somebody asks you about a broker you used to work with they might say, "Hey, what's Mikey B. up to these days?" The response is something like, "Left the city, left the business."  That's the worst thing that can be said about a broker. It's like the broker died and he's just gone. It means you don't have a clue. In short, it means the guy is no longer part of our thing.  "X's Cold Caller" or "X's Connector"  When you're a cold caller or connector (we've heard both), you don't even get the dignity of having a name. People walk up to you and say, "Hey, David's Cold Caller/Connector, go pick up my sandwich."  "You're Bob's Cold Caller/Connector, right? What the heck are you doing just standing there? Help me carry this?"  "He just stepped off the desk" When you call a trader who isn't in and the guy who answers the phone says, "He just stepped off the desk" it's a funny phrase because it means that he's not in the only place in the world that matters — the trading desk.  Did he go to the men's room? Is his wife in labor?  None of that matters. He's just not on the desk and besides that what else matters? FREE AppDownload
JP Morgan will sell its commodities unit to commodities trading firm Mercuria. As yet we don't know for how much, and we don't know exactly when the deal will be finished (though it's said to be sometime in the third quarter). But that's just the business, what looms larger than either of those questions is the person behind it — Blythe Masters. Her future is as yet unknown. Wall Street will be watching this closely. Not only is Masters, 44, one of the most powerful women in finance (who became a managing director at JP Morgan at age 28), but she's also the economist who invented the credit default swap. "Blythe will be making a decision about her future over the course of the next few months," said a person familiar with the transaction. "[There's] still lots to do between now and the close in the 3Q." It's possible that Masters could go along with her business — done deal. And once someone enters the shadowy world of commodities trading firms, it's rare that they're ever heard from again. That goes for Mercuria and any of the firms similar to it — Glencore, Cargill and more. They're all silent hands moving invisible dials all over the world. On the other hand, Masters could stay at JP Morgan. Even without her home unit, she's an institution at the bank and could use her skills to focus on trading commodities futures. She could also move to a unit that operates similarly to the one she pioneered — like the bank's currency business. "My guess is firm morale would drop greatly if she left right now," said one JPM employee. "The bloodletting across Wall Street on the markets side has been so nasty." The kind of work that Masters does is capital intensive — you need cold, hard cash. That means that if she wants to keep doing the same thing she's been doing, going to a hedge fund is unlikely. And while most of Wall Street expected Masters to get snapped up in the deal with Mercuria, that doesn't mean she couldn't go to another bank. So would they hire her?  "No idea," said a source familiar with the situation at Goldman Sachs. "We certainly know her well enough through her work at SIFMA (the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association)." Then there's Jefferies. It's a smaller bank with no commercial arm. As such, the Federal Reserve has not pressured it to do anything about commodities at all. As a result the bank has been trying to grow its commodities business. "Jefferies already had begun to enter the commodity business in a significant way with the creation of their Financial Products subsidiary in 2003," said one former Jefferies employee. "That group was spun out as CoreCommodity Management, a Jefferies owned commodity fund manager, in 2012. With the acquisition of Bache, a large commodity player, in 2011 at the height of the commodity boom the investment bank made a huge commitment to the space. With other banks scaling back due to Dodd Frank and other concerns, Jefferies might see an opportunity to grab further market share. She would be a logical choice and, despite their smaller stature as a bank there is no question that they are willing to write big checks for key people." And Masters would command a big check. A really, really big check. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Alex LeeIBM workers protest at an IBM factory in Shenzhen, Guangdong province, March 7, 2014. More than 1,000 workers at an IBM factory in southern China have gone on strike against the terms of their transfer to Chinese PC maker Lenovo Group Ltd caused by the U.S. company's $2.3 billion sale of its low-end server business.It's universally understood that it is cheaper to make things in China than in the U.S. It's one reason so much of what was once made by American workers is now made by Chinese workers. But all of that is slowly changing. In what's been dubbed the American Industrial Renaissance, manufacturing activity in the U.S. is expected to make a comeback for several reasons. Perhaps the most significant reason is accelerating wage growth in China. You see, growth in China's economy has been juiced for years by exports thanks all of that manufacturing. But that economic growth has come with a rising standard of living, and workers are demanding more pay. And that rising wage is making it more expensive to make stuff in China. On the other hand, the American manufacturing industry has found itself in an increasingly competitive position. Check out this chart from Richard Bernstein Advisers. Richard Bernstein Advisors "Manufacturing wages in China increased 18% per year over the 5 years from December 2007 through Dec. 2012, whereas US manufacturing wages rose 2.3% per year," noted Rich Bernstein of Richard Bernstein Advisors. "US manufacturing wage growth has not only lagged Chinese wage growth, it has lagged wage growth in much of the world," he added. "US wage growth remains tepid particularly in comparison to countries in Asia and Latin America, whose comparative wage advantage continues to decline." "It remains unlikely that the United States will be the manufacturing powerhouse that it was during the 1950s and 1960s, but many factors are suggesting that the US industrial sector will continue to gain market share," he said. FREE AppDownload
Darley Shen/ReutersWill you be replaced by a machine? There's nearly a 50-50 chance, according to a recent study by Oxford University researchers who found that 47% of the labor market in the US alone is at risk of being mechanized out of existence. Approximately 702 jobs thus far held by humans are now threatened by non-humans, as we were reminded by a widely shared report on the study this week. It’s not hard to see why. Advances in robotics and artificial intelligence are bringing robots into more and more workplaces. For example: There’s even a robotic burger flipper in the works. The website of Momentum Machines boasts that its slicing, grinding, frying robot can do "everything employees can do except better", and that it will "democratize access to high-quality food, making it available to the masses". All of which begs the question: will there be anyone left who can afford those better burgers, or will everyone be out of work? And what the hell are we supposed to do about the inevitable rise of the machines? The march of the worker drones does seem inevitable, and not just into specialized job functions. The Pentagon's mad-science research arm, Darpa, is currently hosting the Darpa Robotics Challenge for the creation of humanoid robots capable of working in disaster areas that are too dangerous for humans. These all-purpose machines are designed to let themselves into buildings and pick up and use whatever tools are at hand there – indeed, to do the things we cannot. At the Darpa trials in Miami a few months ago, I watched one of the 16 struggling 'bots stare for 10 minutes at a door handle, apparently uncertain what to do with it. The machine looked capable enough: two arms, two legs, about six feet tall, a head studded with sensors. But it was definitely lacking in the brains department. Still, the program manager at Darpa in charge of the operation imagines future versions serving as in-home aides for the elderly or disabled. The robots are in the primitive, baby-step stages right now, but things can move quickly when it comes to Darpa robotics programs. Autonomous vehicles, for example, went from being unable to complete a course through open desert in the Darpa Grand Challenge, to deftly navigating simulated city streets – complete with human-driven traffic – in three short years. Three US states and the District of Columbia have already passed legislation regulating robotic cars on public roads. Sooner or later, it seems, robots will have staged a takeover not only of our workplaces, and streets, but also of our homes. What then? As early as the 1960s, Arthur C Clarke, professional visionary and inventor of the communications satellite, predicted the end of menial labor (mental as well as manual), due to mechanization (and, more disturbingly, bio-engineered apes). In his essay The World of 2001, originally published in Vogue and reprinted in his book The View from Serendip, Clarke wrote: "the main result of all these developments will be to eliminate 99 percent of human activity … if we look at humanity as it is constituted today." Our salvation, in Clarke's view, will lie in our looking toward loftier pursuits than all those kinds of jobs that machines will take over: In the day-after-tomorrow society there will be no place for anyone as ignorant as the average mid-twentieth-century college graduate. If it seems an impossible goal to bring the whole population of the planet up to superuniversity levels, remember that a few centuries ago it would have seemed equally unthinkable that everybody would be able to read. Today we have to set our sights much higher, and it is not unrealistic to do so. Of course this depends on our valuing, as a society, individual knowledge, creating thinking, curiosity and all the other things that elevate us above the level of machines. It depends on our fostering the kind of society that not only frees people from menial labor, but also enables them to reach their full human potential – not just go begging for want of a lousy job. How many ways can a cook contribute to society other than flipping burgers? What can a sportswriter do beyond coming up with endless variations on "beat," topped", "outshot" and "defeated"? It's about time to find out. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk FREE AppDownload
    Fitness and wellness expert Tracey Mallett visited the Business Insider offices to demonstrate yoga that you can easily incorporate into your morning routine. Mallett insists it's the perfect workout to get you ready for the workday in just a few minutes. FREE AppDownload
Editor's note: Below is an interview with David Keeble, head of fixed income strategy at Crédit Agricole. This Q&amp;A went out to subscribers of our "10 Things You Need To Know Before The Opening Bell" newsletter on Friday morning. Sign up below to get the newsletter and more of these interviews in your inbox every day. BUSINESS INSIDER: What is the most exciting trade out there right now, in your opinion? DAVID KEEBLE: I'd sell 2-year and 3-year Treasuries. If you look at the spread between the fed funds rate and the 2-year U.S. Treasury, a few months before the Fed hikes rates, you typically see a spread of 175-240 basis points. Currently, that spread is around 32 basis points and I think that a Fed hike is about 18 months out. The 2-year has a lot of ground to cover over the next year or so. The correction won't come smoothly. We're expecting the 2-year to wake up one day and suddenly realize it's mispriced — just as the 10-year did last year when it jumped 150 basis points in a very short space of time. BI: Which developments in global financial markets, if any, would you flag as most concerning for risk appetite? DK: The Chinese liberalization of product and financial markets. The world's second largest economy is undergoing a revolution and it will be difficult to ensure it is perfectly smooth. BI: Eurodollar shorts got a nice payoff on their record-large positions from yesterday's FOMC meeting. How do you think positioning will evolve between now and the next meeting? DK: My guess is that investors will sell upticks and so we'll gradually build up short positions. However, adverse positioning acts like only a small anchor on a oil tanker. If the economy says that yields need to rise, prices can be marked lower and short positioning won't necessarily have a significant restraining influence. BI: With the March FOMC meeting out of the way, what pieces of new information (e.g. economic data releases, price action in a given market over the next few days/weeks, etc.) do you think have the biggest potential to alter your outlook? DK: On the economic front, I'm looking at the wage data in the payroll report. The hourly earnings spiked up last month perhaps due to a weather effect and Yellen dismissed the signaling content of that move. However, wage growth is the arbiter for the output gap, so I'm looking at it very closely. Otherwise, I afraid of the Ukrainian situation — as everyone is. BI: What do you perceive to be the most misunderstood trend or event in or characteristic of today's markets? DK: The appreciation of the euro, which seems to be ever in defiance of the best predictions. In my understanding, investors have shunned the zone for years but are flowing back on a consistent basis. This is even showing up in the Treasury's TICS data — Americans are buying foreign assets, and Europe would be my guess. I don't think there is much scope left because its been nearly two years of consistent peripheral sovereign spread improvement. As was pointed out to me the other day, Ireland's 10-year yield is 3.07%, compared to the U.S. at 2.78% — which would you sooner buy? FREE AppDownload
ReutersBoeing 777 Malaysian Airlines with the registration number 9M-MRO flies over Poland February 5, 2014.Malaysia Airlines has now confirmed that Flight 370 was carrying lithium-ion batteries in its cargo hold, the Daily Mail reports. This new fact could bolster the theory that the plane was brought down by a fire rather than a hijacking or other malfeasance. It has now been more than two weeks since Malaysia Flight 370 disappeared. No confirmed trace of the plane has been found, and investigators still appear to be mystified about what happened. The two prevailing theories are that the plane was commandeered by the pilots or hijackers or suffered a fire or other mechanical problem. Both theories fit some but not all of the supposed facts that have been released thus far. The fire theory, for example, is undermined by the lack of any apparent distress call. And no motive has been unearthed that might explain the hijacking/commandeering theory, especially given the likelihood that the plane then later crashed somewhere in the Indian Ocean. On Friday, Malaysia Airlines CEO released some new information that could bolster the fire theory. Four days after denying that the plane had carried any hazardous materials, the CEO admitted that it was carrying a shipment of lithium-ion batteries in its cargo hold. These batteries, which commonly power cell phones and other gadgets, have occasionally caused fires, including on airplanes.  The Mail reports data from the FAA citing 140 incidents in the last 25 years involving lithium-ion batteries. At least two major crashes in the past two decades, meanwhile, have been caused by on-board fires, including a Swissair flight in 1998 and a UPS cargo plane in 2010. Earlier this week, a former pilot named Chris Goodfellow articulated the fire theory, explaining how the plane's turn to the west could have been a standard attempt to head toward the nearest airport for an emergency landing. The plane's new heading put it on a course straight for Pulau Langkawi, a major airport in northern Malaysia. Billie Vincent, a former Federal Aviation Administration security official, has also argued that the facts fit a fire. “The data released thus far most likely points to a problem with hazardous materials," Vincent told Air Traffic Management.net. "This scenario begins with the eruption of hazardous materials within the cargo hold – either improperly packaged or illegally shipped – or both.” Malaysia Airlines says the batteries in the cargo hold were properly packed. Vincent also suggests that the strange altitude readings that Malaysian investigators say they captured on radar—an ascent to 45,000 feet and then a descent to 25,000—could be explained by a fire. The pilots might not have been able to see the controls in the cockpit, Vincent said, and thus ascended higher than they intended. And, later, they might have been trying to get the plane to an altitude at which they could vent the plane and slow the progress of the fire, as well as prepare for an emergency landing. Malaysian investigators say they believe that the plane was commandeered, and one fact in particular they have released does not fit the fire theory. They say that the plane changed its course prior to a final radio communication in which the co-pilot said "good night" to air-traffic control — a routine call that made it seem like everything was fine. SEE ALSO:* This Is The Most Plausible Theory For The Plane's Disappearance We Have Heard Yet...* 777 PILOT: Sorry, But I'm Just Not Buying The Smoke-In-The-Cockpit Theory FREE AppDownload
The context: When first rolled out in a May 2009 PIMCO publication, the concept of the “new normal” attracted only limited support in economic, market and policy circles. But after five years of frustratingly-low economic growth and alarmingly-high unemployment, the concept has caught on. It also relates to the more-detailed analytical work done by Carmen Reinhard, Ken Rogoff, Larry Summers, Paul Krugman, Richard Koo, Tom Friedman, and others. What is the new normal: Developed over several rounds of discussions among PIMCO colleagues in the run-up and the immediate aftermath of the 2008 global financial crisis, the concept signaled the likelihood that western economies would not reset in a typical cyclical manner – or, adapting an old Monty Python sketch, the crisis would prove much more than a “flesh wound.” Rather than a quick bounce back in growth (the rubber band “V” shaped recovery), economic activity would remain persistently sluggish and unemployment unusually high. The underlying rationale: The initial reasoning was based on the view that it takes many years for an economy to recover fully from a period of excessive leverage, extreme debt entitlement, and irresponsible risk taking and credit extension. Subsequently, with policy responses lagging developments on the ground (see next point), the growth/employment challenges were further aggravated by inadequate aggregate demand and insufficient attention paid to supply-side factors. Policy concerns: While policymakers did respond boldly using extraordinary measures, their initial reactions underestimated the depth of the crisis. Too many pf them struggled to combine a cyclical mindset (which, prior to the crisis, had served them well), with a more secular and structural one. They also dismissed way too quickly the notion that western economies can learn a few things from the experience of the emerging world. When the new normal realization finally set in, the political context was no longer conducive to a comprehensive policy response. As a result, central banks have had to carry the bulk of the policy burden; and have done so using – inevitably – imperfect tools. The impact on Main Street: It has been devastating, harming both current and future generations. Just witness the extent of long-term joblessness and youth unemployment, as well as the excessive increase in the inequality trio (of income, wealth and opportunities). It has also contributed to political polarization and weakened global policy coordination on economic and geo-political issues.  The impact on Wall Street: Here the impact has been quite subdued. Thanks to the hyper activism of central banks, markets have been largely shielded from the impact of weaker fundamentals. Indeed, central banks have inserted quite a wedge between fundamentals and market prices; and they have done so for an understandable reason: given their limited policy tools, they are obliged to use the asset price channel as a way to influence wealth, spending, animal spirits, risk taking and investing.   The economic outlook: Over the short-term, the economic baseline calls essentially for more of the same, along with fatter two-sided tails for the distribution as a whole. Specifically, absent major policy mistakes or geo-political/market accidents, western growth will gradually improve in 2014, but unfortunately still fall short of escape velocity. Over the medium-term, however, the probability of tipping into one of the two tails is likely to increase: so either the west reaches a critical point of internal healing that enables growth at or above potential for a while; or now-deeply embedded structural problems contribute to more prolonged low growth with significantly higher probability of financial volatility. The intrigue: As yet, there is simply not enough data and analytical underpinning to predict with confidence which of the two-tails would ultimately dominate.    Mohamed A. El-Erian is the former CEO/co-CIO of PIMCO. He is Chief Economic Advisor at Allianz and member of its International Executive Committee, Chair of President Obama’s Global Development Council and author of the NYT/WSJ bestseller “When Markets Collide.” Follow him on twitter @elerianm FREE AppDownload
Win McNamee/Getty ImagesBarry Ritholtz wrote an opinion piece on Bloomberg today arguing that it's hard to criticize the Fed's QE programs simply because we don't know what would have happened without them. Since this is not a "controlled" experiment in which we can compare a patient taking experimental medication with the one taking a placebo, there is no way to tell if the therapy had worked. All we know is that the patient has undergone a slow recovery and according to the "doctor" may have been worse without the "treatment". This argument was used a number of times in recent years, including for example with the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 - the $840 billion "stimulus" bill. There are all sorts of estimates on how many jobs the bill saved/created and how many GDP points were added. Was it effective relative to other job creation programs? We of course will never know because we can't peer into an "alternative universe" where the stimulus bill had not passed.But maybe we are asking the wrong question. Let's for a moment stay with the medication analogy that Mr. Ritholtz introduced. Experimental medication is usually applied in dire cases when the patient's health is deteriorating and traditional therapies had not worked. The use of QE1 was just such a case. It was necessary to stabilize the banking system that was frozen - an extreme problem that called for radical measures. But what about QE3? Mr. Ritholtz argues that with other parts of the federal government dysfunctional, the Fed was simply the only game in town to get the economy moving.However was the US economy in such a disastrous shape in the summer of 2012 that it called for another extreme intervention? Clearly growth was uneven and the labor markets remained wobbly. Nevertheless a recovery was taking place. A patient who is getting better, albeit slowly, is generally not given an ever larger dose of experimental medication in hopes of miraculously accelerating the recovery.  Rather than Mr. Ritholtz's tumor analogy, let's think about QE as delivering excessive doses of experimental pain killers. Yes the patient may feel better at first, but as we all know, prolonged use could create some nasty side effects. The key side effect of course is addiction - which over a long period of time requires one to administer ever larger doses in order to obtain the same effect. And now you are not just fighting the disorder but also the addiction - especially the withdrawal symptoms. That is precisely what is taking place now (see post). Furthermore, the uncertainty surrounding the QE "withdrawal symptoms" is what had put some of the economic activity on hold, activity that is only now beginning to return. What's particularly troubling about QE is that even after the "injections" are taken away, the nation's banking system is saddled with the "long-term side effect". The US monetary base is now near $4 trillion, with some $2.5 trillion of it sitting on banks' balance sheets in the form of excess reserves. Removing it would require the Fed to sell its securities holdings - something the central bank is not planning to do. This bloated monetary base is going to be with us for a while even as the Fed's securities purchases end - an "experimental drug" whose long-term effects remain unknown. FREE AppDownload
