Flickr/Southeastern SeminaryAt the end of the day, where you go to college isn't about the parties, the quality of the cafeteria food, or even how many all-nighters you put in — it's about how much a school will help you succeed after you graduate. For the sixth year in a row we're asking for your help to rank the Best Colleges In America, based on how well they prepare their students for success after graduation. Last year the Massachusetts Institute of Technology was rated the No. 1 college in the U.S. for the fourth year in a row... but who will take the top this year? You decide. Please take our survey below. We will post the results in a few weeks. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersCustomer looks at items displayed on shelves at a supermarket in ShenyangSHANGHAI (Reuters) - China's consumer inflation came in as forecast at 2.3 percent rise, data showed, reinforcing bets that benign price pressures will give authorities room to relax monetary policy if needed. Data released by the National Bureau of Statistics on Saturday also pointed to stubborn deflationary pressures among producers and manufacturers. The producer price index fell 0.9 percent for the 29th consecutive month, in line with forecasts for a 0.9 percent decline. Analysts polled by Reuters had expected consumer inflation to be steady at 2.3 percent in July, unchanged from June. On a monthly basis, consumer inflation ran at 0.1 percent in July, as forecast. China's economy has had a rocky year as growth faltered on unsteady foreign and domestic demand. An initial brightening in the economic outlook in the past month as factory activity picked up was quickly eclipsed by surprisingly weak growth in imports and the services sector, raising questions about whether authorities need to do more to lift activity.   (Reporting by Koh Gui Qing and Pete Sweeney) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersComputer software pioneer McAfee speaks with reporters outside his hotel in Miami BeachLAS VEGAS (Reuters) - John McAfee, the flamboyant anti-virus software industry pioneer, made a surprise appearance at a computer hackers' conference on Friday evening, where he unveiled a new website to give people a place online to vent their anger. The one-time millionaire who fled the Central American nation of Belize in 2012 after police sought to question him about the murder of a neighbor said he set up the site for ordinary people to lodge complaints on anything from government corruption to bad consumer products. The site, called BrownList (http://www.brownlist.com/), carries the motto "It's payback time." "This taps into anger in a positive way," he said in a brief interview before taking the stage at Def Con, the world's largest conference of computer hackers. "Instead of getting angry and shooting at somebody on the highway, or yelling at your wife, you can log onto the site." BrownList offers a forum for people to file specific complaints and for users to propose solutions to problems. Suggestions are voted on by site members who decide what sorts of response might be best. "Instead of just lashing out, give us your positive solutions," he told an audience of hundreds of hackers taking part in a three-day conference. McAfee told Reuters that he plans to make money by offering subscription services to businesses, but he did not elaborate. He said he is looking for more investors in the site, which he has started up with $450,000 from a private investor who he declined to name. The British-American entrepreneur was the founder in 1987 of McAfee, a pioneer of computer anti-virus software, which was subsequently sold to Intel Corp in 2010.  (Reporting by Jim Finkle and Eric Auchard) FREE AppDownload
Google EarthThe housing recovery has been slowing and home price growth is starting to cool. In fact Case-Shiller home prices fell 0.3% month-over-month in June.  But there are pockets of the country where housing is rapidly heating up. The real estate brokerage Redfin says that the up-and-coming areas are "mostly adjacent to highly sought-after neighborhoods that have become difficult to get into because of high prices and few homes for sale." Redfin used its own proprietary website data to figure out which neighborhoods are about to get hot. By looking at the neighborhoods at which more and more people are looking on the website, they're able to make a guess about what housing markets are about to get hot. To rank the top 10, Redfin looked at year-over-year increase in the average numbers of page views and favorites per home, as well as the changes in rank. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersPeople walk at the headquarters of Alibaba in Hangzhou(Reuters) - Snapchat Inc's financing talks with China's Alibaba Group Holding Ltd  are over, Bloomberg reported, citing people familiar with the matter. The developer of a popular app that allows users to send messages that disappear after a few seconds was reportedly in talks last week with investors, including Alibaba, for financing that could value the company at $10 billion. Discussions between the two companies have not been active for some time, Bloomberg said, citing other people familiar with the matter. Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba, which is preparing for a September 2014 debut on the New York Stock Exchange, has left the door open to continue the funding talks after its initial public offering, Bloomberg reported. Snapchat, popular among teenage users, turned down a $3 billion acquisition offer from Facebook Inc  last year, the Wall Street Journal reported in November. Neither Snapchat nor Alibaba were immediately available for comment when contacted by Reuters.  (Reporting by Kanika Sikka in Bangalore; Editing by Ken Wills) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock ExchangeBy Caroline Valetkevitch NEW YORK (Reuters) - Investors once again are snapping up high-dividend-paying U.S. stocks as Treasury yields fall, which should keep utilities and telecom stocks near the top of the buying list for the near future. The S&amp;P 500 utility sector , whose dividend yield at 3.9 percent is more than 100 basis points above the 10-year Treasury yield , led the S&amp;P 500's advance on Friday after concern about the launch of U.S. air strikes on Iraq drove the benchmark bond yield to 14-month lows. The equity market recovered from early losses, in part due to news that Russia's Defense Ministry said military exercises near the Ukraine border had ended. Any global worries that keep a bid in government debt, meanwhile, will motivate investors to go after stocks with fat dividend yields. The utility sector is up 8.8 percent since Dec. 31, the third best-performing sector for the year, following technology and health care. Telecom hasn't been as strong - gaining just 0.8 percent in the same period - but two of that sector's constituents, Windstream Holdings  and Frontier Communications , have both gained roughly 40 percent. Utilities hit a bout of profit-taking after ending the first half of the year in the No. 1 spot. The sector had risen 16.4 percent as of June 30, bolstered in part by the shares' high yields and the appeal of a safer sector at a time when investors were still a bit worried about economic growth. Analysts say the attractiveness of high dividend-paying sectors such as utilities is not likely to end soon, especially with valuations still below the benchmark's level. The forward price-to-earnings ratio for S&amp;P utilities is at 14.9, below the S&amp;P 500's p/e of 15.2, Thomson Reuters data showed. "The U.S. 10-year is an attractive yield given the backdrop of very weak yields around the world. Therefore, that does make the dividend-paying sectors increasingly attractive. That's been the footprint for this market," said Quincy Krosby, market strategist at Prudential Financial, based in Newark, New Jersey. Overseas turmoil, particularly in Ukraine, has driven up demand for safe-haven bonds, also supported by the Federal Reserve's continued purchase of Treasuries while it gradually pares back its bond-buying program. The S&amp;P 500 utility sector shot up 2 percent on Friday, its biggest daily percentage gain since June. Earlier this week, the index flirted with correction territory as it lost nearly 10 percent from a high set June 30. Also benefiting from the drop in bond yields are exchange-traded funds tied to dividend payers, including the Powershares Dividend Achiever exchange-traded fund , which rose 1.3 percent on Friday and is up 3.2 percent for the year. The First Trust Morningstar Dividend Leaders Index Fund  has performed better, gaining 1.2 percent on Friday and up 6 percent for the year so far. The S&amp;P telecommunications index  has an even higher dividend yield than utilities, at 4.7 percent, though a smaller pool of stocks. The sector has been weak this year because of a lackluster performance by its biggest names, AT&amp;T  and Verizon . However, network communications company Windstream Holdings has a dividend yield of 9 percent, the highest in the S&amp;P 500, while Frontier Communications is third highest, with a yield of 6.2 percent, according to Thomson Reuters data. Those compare with the S&amp;P 500's dividend yield of 2.4 percent. They have gained 40 percent and 37 percent this year, respectively. "Where yield lies is where investors are continuing to go because there continues to be no alternative from other income-producing securities," said Mark Luschini, chief investment strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott in Philadelphia.  (Reporting by Caroline Valetkevitch; Editing by Leslie Adler) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersU.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa speaks in court in New YorkNEW YORK/BUENOS AIRES (Reuters) - The U.S. judge in Argentina's long-running debt battle with hedge funds threatened a contempt-of-court order on Friday if the nation did not stop issuing false statements about having made a required debt payment on restructured sovereign bonds. U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa in Manhattan railed at Argentina's lawyers from Cleary Gottlieb Steen &amp; Hamilton following the publication of another so-called legal notice insisting the government has met its payment requirements and was therefore not in default. Griesa said these notices were "regularly" and "systematically" omitting the vital obligations of the Republic. Holding a newspaper copy of the notice, which appeared Thursday, Griesa said if the false statements did not stop, a contempt of court order will become necessary. Griesa said he was not going to go further than a warning for now, but that could change. He repeated that the two sides must continue negotiating with the aide of mediator Daniel Pollack. "We will continue to work tirelessly to defend the rights of Argentina," Economy Minister Axel Kicillof said on public television in Argentina, adding that at the hearing in New York on Friday, "Judge Griesa did not resolve anything. "He created this confusing and extraordinary situation," said Kicillof, who also played down concerns the case would cripple investment in Argentina. Griesa did not specify whether he would seek to sanction Argentina or its lawyers, though he said he was "glad" to hear Jonathan Blackman, Argentina's lead lawyer, say his firm, Cleary Gottlieb, did not aid in preparing the government's latest legal notices. In rare circumstances, U.S. judges have held foreign governments in contempt and imposed monetary penalties. But such sanctions can be difficult to enforce, and federal appeals courts have split on whether foreign governments can be held in contempt at all. Federal law largely protects the assets of foreign governments held in the United States, said Michael Ramsey, a professor of international law at the University of San Diego. "You can't put Argentina in jail, so I'm not sure what he'd have in mind besides monetary sanctions," Ramsey said. "Argentina has refused to pay a valid judgment and I don't see why it wouldn’t also refuse to pay a valid contempt order." Blackman also complained of being attacked and lampooned by the lobby group American Task Force Argentina, which is partly funded by holdout investors. Argentina missed a coupon payment after a grace period ended on July 30, pushing it into default on restructured debt from a previous default in 2002 on roughly $100 billion in sovereign bonds. The government settled with nearly 93 percent of its bondholders in two restructurings but two deep-pocketed distressed debt investors held out and did not participate in the exchanges in 2005 and 2010. They are by far not the only holdouts, but have been the most prominent in their fight for full repayment on debt they bought at pennies on the dollar in a case that essentially comes down to a contract dispute. Griesa, in 2012, awarded these holdout investors led by NML Capital Ltd, an affiliate of the $24.8 billion hedge fund Elliott Management Corp, and Aurelius Capital Management, who won a $1.33 billion judgment. Argentina insists it is not in default because it deposited a $539 million coupon payment on exchanged bonds before a June 30 deadline. Griesa has called the deposit with trustee Bank of New York Mellon illegal and reiterated on Friday that, "there has been no payment." Payments to exchange bondholders have not been made because of Greisa's order, which stipulated the nation must concurrently pay the holdouts their award plus accrued interest.   NOTICES AND CONTEMPT Argentina has published legal notices in recent weeks disparaging Griesa and Pollack, who succeeded in getting the two sides to meet face-to-face for the first time in nearly 13 years but could not get them to an agreement by a July 30 deadline. Pollack issued a statement after the hearing saying it was his intention to "convene and conduct further negotiations until a solution is reached, however long that may take." The government accused the veteran judge of overstepping his purview and interfering in the affairs of a sovereign nation. Argentina insists it cannot meet the demands of the court order, nor make a deal with the holdouts that is better than the terms offered in its two restructurings based upon a clause in its agreement known as the Rights Upon Future Offers (RUFO). The RUFO clause expires on Dec. 31, 2014. Reuters IFR has reported that private banks are trying to reach an agreement with the holdouts that would pay them 80 cents on the dollar for their Argentine bonds in hopes of getting the frozen coupon payment sitting at BNY Mellon released as soon as possible.   (Additional reporting by Andrew Longstreth and IFR's Joan Magee and Davide Scigliuzzo in New York, Richard Lough and Hugh Bronstein in Buenos Aires. Writing by Daniel Bases; Editing by W Simon, Andrew Hay and Andre Grenon) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA man walks past a row of General Motors vehicles at a Chevrolet dealership on Woodward Avenue in Detroit, Michigan(Reuters) - The lawyer overseeing a General Motors Co  fund set up to compensate victims of accidents caused by faulty ignition switches in its cars has received claims for 63 deaths cases, the Associated Press reported, citing a spokeswoman for the fund. Lawyer Kenneth Feinberg, who is overseeing the fund, received 125 claims by Friday afternoon since it was set up a week ago. The AP said 62 others were seeking payments for injuries, citing the spokeswoman Camille Biros. Feinberg, who started taking claims from August 1 and will continue until December 31, will determine the number of claims eligible for payments and the final payouts. Biros was not immediately available to comment. GM earlier this year recalled 2.6 million cars for the faulty ignition switches, which can cause engine stalls and stop power steering and power brakes from operating and air bags from deploying. It has also admitted not fixing the problem for a decade. The number of death claims represents nearly five times the 13 deaths that GM has attributed to the defective switches. The Detroit-based automaker has set aside $400 million to cover victims' claims, but the amount could grow because the fund is not capped.     Lawyers for various plaintiffs have said several dozen deaths may ultimately be attributed to the switches.     The payouts from the compensation fund for eligible claims is expected to be completed by the second quarter of 2015, Feinberg said in June, adding that the families for those who died would likely be awarded at least $1 million. Feinberg has previously handled a compensation fund for victims of the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks, and a BP Plc  fund for victims of the April 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill.  (Reporting by Avik Das in Bangalore; Editing by Bernard Orr) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Darren Staples competitor hangs above muddy water during the Tough Guy event in Perton, central England.FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors.  The Corporate Bond Market Has A Tough Road Ahead (Morningstar)  "In the near term, we think that the corporate market has a tough road ahead of itself," writes Dave Sekera at Morningstar. Sekera expects that as the Fed winds down its asset purchase program and for rates to get to a more normalized level the 10-year needs to rise above 3.5%. "Now historically, oftentimes, we saw that the Treasury spread between the corporate bond and the underlying Treasury bond would tighten as interest rates went up. However, we don’t really foresee that happening this time around." "So, for example, the average spread in the Morningstar Corporate Bond Index is 105 basis points over Treasuries right now. Historically, the tightest it ever got--in February of 2007--was 80 basis points. So, on the face of it, it appears as though you could have another 25 basis points of upside to get to those historically tight levels. However, the problem is that the average rating in the index right now is actually a single A-minus, and that’s lower than what the average rating was back in February of 2007 when [the Morningstar Corporate Bond Index] hit its tightest. "…As such, going forward we really think that the corporate bond market is going to be much more closely tied to Treasury-bond returns than it has been in the past." Investors Searching For Income Should Look To Stocks (AllianceBernstein Blog)  In an ultra-low interest rate environment, Joseph Paul at AllianceBernstein writes that investors should look at stocks for income. "Dividend yields on US stocks today are competitive with fixed-income yields," Paul writes. "At the beginning of August, the trailing dividend yield on the S&amp;P 500 was 1.8%, not far behind the 10-year Treasury yield of 2.6%. And the highest-yielding third of US stocks boasts a dividend yield of 3.0%." "Dividends are actually more dependable than you might think. For the market as a whole, dividend growth was positive in 39 of the years from 1968 to 2013. Annual dividends only contracted during seven years. In the worst case, an investment producing $100 in dividends in 2008, as the global financial crisis struck, would slump to $80 of income in 2009 (Display, right chart). Yet by staying the course through 2012, annual income would be higher than the starting point." "...An equity income approach is probably more appropriate for investors with long-term goals, who can put their money away for an extended period," he writes. "In such cases, we believe that equity income can be a reliable substitute for part of a fixed-income allocation." There Have Been Record Withdrawals From High-Yield Bond Funds (Business Insider)  The latest Lipper data showed that high yield bond funds saw $7.1 billion in outflows in the week ended Wednesday, the largest outflows on record. Recent underperformance of US high yield credit has put back to the forefront of the market the vulnerability of this asset class to rising US yields, and to the coming tightening cycle in the US," Societe Generale's Ahmed Behdenna said in a recent note. "Market reaction to recent US positive economic news-flow reminds us that the Fed tightening (which will come one day!) means lower expected returns for the asset class." Societe Generale Jeff Gundlach Warned Us Rates Could Fall, And They Did — Here's What He's Saying Now (Business Insider)  DoubleLine Funds' Jeffrey Gundlach told Business Insider's Sam Ro that he expects the 10-year yield to trade between 2.2% and 2.8%, with the risk that it goes below 2.2%. Wall Street analysts widely expected interest rates to rise this year, but on Friday the 10-year hit its lowest level since June 2013. And Gundlach, unlike most of Wall Street had said back then that rates would continue to stay low. "It's really hard for me to identify why rates should go higher," he told Business Insider. Three Questions Advisors Should Ask Themselves Before Buying New Technology (InvestmentNews) While technology offers opportunities for advisors to be more efficient, Fidelity's 2013 Insights on advice study found that they are largely still "challenged by integrating and utilizing it," writes Ed O'Brien in Investment News. "While you may feel cool sporting the latest technology in the office or with your clients, if it doesn't solve your business problems or improve what you already do well, you won't see the return on your investment," he writes. So, he suggests that advisors ask themselves three questions before trying to pick out the right technology for their businesses. 1. "Will this technology make us more efficient?"2. "Will the technology improve our client engagements?"3. "Will implementing this technology disrupt our business?" FREE AppDownload
Here are two major trends currently underway in the US energy markets: 1. Cushing, Oklahoma inventories (the location for settlement of WTI futures) are falling to new lows. The crude backlog that existed in recent years has been resolved. Oil now moves in sufficient quantities (via Seaway and other infrastructure) to the Gulf Coast as well as to Midwest refineries to stabilize and even cut inventory in storage. Also Cushing is now often bypassed, with crude moved directly to the Gulf via rail.   2. US refineries are now pumping at record levels, as lower US crude feedstock costs contribute to refinery profitability. These dynamics are part of the reason we see outperformance in shares of firms like Tesoro for example. FREE AppDownload
The segment of the swollen U.S. prison population that poses the least threat to public safety also presents the greatest financial burden on taxpayers, highlights a new report from The Osborne Association, an advocacy organization that works with incarcerated individuals. While there has been much focus on reducing prosecution rates of non-violent drug offenders, the Osborne Association report sheds light on another problem with prison overcrowding — the exorbitant costs associated with the long-term incarceration of elderly prisoners. Of 2.3 million U.S. adults in jail or prison, 246,000 are 50 and older. But while the overall U.S. prison population is now shrinking, the aging inmate population continues to increase considerably. By 2030, the number of prisoners 55 and older is projected to comprise one-third of the total prison population, representing a 4,400% increase over 50 years. The U.S. currently spends more than $16 billion per year on prisoners age 50 and older, paying on average twice as much to keep them incarcerated, at $68,270 per inmate, than younger prisoners ($34,135). For infirm elderly inmates, it costs $100,000 per year to keep them incarcerated, reports The New York Times.  Elderly inmates are more likely to suffer severe medical problems requiring them to be transported under supervision to outside medical facilities. And it costs around $2,000 per day to guard prisoners who receive medical care outside prison. "In short, the unique needs of the elderly and the commensurate costs for their care are compounded by additional and unavoidable expenses of correctional supervision; it is clear that any long-term use of prisons as makeshift nursing homes is financially unsustainable," The Osborne Association report said. The excessive costs of keeping inmates age 50 and older incarcerated is even more apparent when considering the fact that they are the least likely to return to prison for new convictions if released. While the nationwide recidivism rate within three years is 43.3%, that rate plummets to just 7% among those age 50-64 and 4% among those 65 and older, while arrest rates for those age groups dwindle to 2% or less. Elderly inmates are often turned down for parole or compassionate release because of bureaucratic hurdles and strict criteria that don't adequately consider how they've changed morally and physically in the decades since their crime.  When one 86-year-old in a wheelchair prepared to face his parole board after decades in prison, he asked Osborne Association Executive Director Elizabeth Gaynes to read to him his sentencing records.  “He wasn’t sure he could remember his crime well enough, and was worried that he would sound like he wasn’t taking responsibility for it,” Gaynes told The New York Times. H/T The Crime Report FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Nati HarnikMake no mistake about it, Warren Buffett is rich — $63.5 billion rich. In fact, only 67 of the 200 countries listed by the United Nations have a GDP that is fuller than his wallet. With that said, he is also one of the hardest working people in business, and he has an incredible sharp mind with even "a vaguely autistic aura," according to his biographer. What you may not know is that he is also an honest and pretty funny fellow. I had the opportunity to hear him speak in 2002 at Georgetown University while pursuing my MBA. He was passing along advice to us soon-to-be (and wanna-be) business leaders, and while some of us had expectations of receiving sage investment advice, he laid out a few simple rules to live by. He started by emphasizing that he was no different than anyone else in the world (which arguably is not the case, but you get it) and quipped that the only difference might be that we drive crappy cars and he flies around in a private jet. Touche, Mr. Oracle. And one more thing. He emphasized the need to live righteously, because no bridge can be burned these days and dishonesty and cruelty will follow you for the rest of your business career. Instead, he suggested that by adopting and following one simple mantra in both your business and personal lives, all other parts of your life will fall into place: "Never do anything in life if you would be ashamed of seeing it printed on the front page of your hometown newspaper for your friends and family to see." It is that simple. There was no top secret formula for valuing undervalued businesses. No stock tips. Just be good, do right, and treat others fair. Of course, Buffett has been on a newspaper buying spree over the last few years, purchasing small, undervalued newspapers around the U.S. I suppose that is one way to control the front page of your small, hometown newspaper. But I suspect his intentions are much more sophisticated than this. FREE AppDownload
ReutersTo celebrate his birthday, Pankaj Parakh, an Indian businessman made himself a gold shirt worth about  $213,000, according to the Independent.  Parakh is also a member of the National Congress party in the state of Maharashtra. The shirt which is made of 18-22 carat gold, weighs about 9 pounds. It took 20 men 3,200 hours to stitch it together and it has an inner lining to prevent chafing. Parakh is a high-school dropout who went on work in his family's textile business. "My family is hardly impressed or interested in my love for gold. They just ignore and accept it as a part of domestic life. But the rest of my extended family thinks I am weird," Parakh told the Independent. He says some think his usual display of gold is ostentatious or that he's mocking the poor. But he's quick to point out that he is charitable as well. Parakh isn't the first Indian with a gold shirt. You might remember Datta Phuge who, in 2013, put $230,888 or a third of his worth into a gold shirt. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ben NelmsTekmira Pharmaceuticals Corporation's head office in Burnaby, British Columbia, on Tuesday.Shares of Tekmira Pharmaceuticals closed at $20.70 on Friday, surging 45% in one day of trading. On Thursday afternoon, management announced that the FDA loosened a hold on the Ebola treatment in the company's development pipeline. "[T]he U.S. Food &amp; Drug Administration (FDA) has verbally confirmed they have modified the full clinical hold placed on the TKM-Ebola Investigational New Drug Application (IND) to a partial clinical hold," they said. "This action enables the potential use of TKM-Ebola in individuals infected with Ebola virus." "Earlier this month, the agency put a hold on a Tekmira Pharmaceuticals Corp clinical trial of TKM-Ebola, one of the few Ebola treatments advanced enough to be tested in people," reported Reuters' Julie Steenhuysen. This had enraged the families of those infected by the deadly virus, which has been killing people across West Africa. "We have been closely watching the Ebola virus outbreak and its consequences, and we are willing to assist with any responsible use of TKM-Ebola," Tekmira CEO Mark Murray said Thursday. "The foresight shown by the FDA removes one potential roadblock to doing so. This current outbreak underscores the critical need for effective therapeutic agents to treat the Ebola virus. We recognize the heightened urgency of this situation and are carefully evaluating options for use of our investigational drug within accepted clinical and regulatory protocols." The now $315 million biotech firm has received lots of attention as the deadly virus ravages people in West Africa. Steenhuysen spoke with a University of Texas doctor who said that it "works great in monkeys in the lab." The stock has been trading in a wide range in recent weeks, swinging between $5.08 and $31.48 in the past year. FREE AppDownload
Zynga reported its earnings Thursday, and it was rough, to say the least. Revenue was down to $153 million — Wall Street was expecting $191 million — after a 34% drop off from the year-ago quarter. The company also offered a lower guidance than expected for the following quarter, and it lowered its full-year guidance by nearly $100 million as well. Based on the company’s data, which was charted for us by Statista, Zynga may have peaked in mid-2012 — just months after the company hit the NASDAQ for the first time in December 2011. Revenue has dropped off in each quarter since Q2 2012, when Zynga’s earnings report first failed to meet analysts’ expectations, and the company is still struggling to achieve the prominence it once had when FarmVille became popular on Facebook in 2009. Zynga said it is exploring sports gaming, having closed deals with Tiger Woods and the NFL, and the company said it will “continue to make significant investments in the highest potential areas of our future pipeline.” Statista FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jason ReedDancer Brooke Lockett (2nd R) is pictured with her Australian Ballet colleagues (from L to R) Kismet Bourne, Emma MacFarlane and Corey Herbet at the Bondi Icebergs oceanside pool in Sydney, August 7, 2014.It was supposed to be a risk-off day. But stocks rallied. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories: FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA man looks at his Apple iPad in front an Apple logo outside an Apple store in downtown Shanghai in this file photoSAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - A U.S. judge on Friday rejected a $324.5 million settlement between tech workers and companies including Apple and Google in a lawsuit accusing the companies of conspiring to avoid poaching each other's workers. The ruling by U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh in San Jose, California, said the proposed settlement amount "falls below the range of reasonableness." Intel and Adobe were also part of the deal.   (Reporting by Dan Levine; Editing by Jonathan Oatis) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jessica RinaldiJeffrey Gundlach.Earlier Friday, we saw the yield on the 10-year Treasury note tumble to 2.37%, the lowest level since June 2013. "It's really hard for me to identify why rates should go higher," said Jeffrey Gundlach of DoubleLine Funds. In a phone call with Business Insider, Gundlach reiterated his expectation for the 10-year yield to trade between 2.2% and 2.8%, with the risk that it goes below 2.2%. Most of Wall Street's interest rate gurus came into 2014 confident that rates would actually rise as the U.S. economy was expected to reach escape velocity. In January, the consensus year-end forecast for the 10-year yield was 3.4%. Gundlach, however, was one of the very few people who believed rates would stay low, especially with the Federal Reserve committed to keeping rates low with its loose monetary policy. It's important to note that U.S. Treasuries don't have the lowest yields in the world. French and German government bonds have yields that are about 100 basis points lower than those of Treasuries. In other words, those European bonds actually make U.S. bonds look cheap, meaning that yields have room to go lower. Gundlach said that we could see Treasury yields rise if European yields were to rally. However, he reminded us that the European economy continues to be in much worse shape. If anything, Europe is on the brink of deflation, which means rates could actually go lower. Noting that the U.S. economy had so far failed to deliver a 3%+ rate of GDP growth, Gundlach said the Q3 GDP reports would be important. Overall, Gundlach hasn't changed his views on the markets and the economy. When you consider the fact that his big macro calls have been on point, he really doesn't need to. FREE AppDownload
Google ImagesOn Thursday, we reported that ordinary Russians were furious their government had imposed bans on Western food imports. Not everyone is so glum. The FT's Courtney Weaver and Kathrin Hille talked to the CEO of one Russian meat importing firm who said she relished the opportunity for her country to strike back at the West, even though her company was going to get hit, reminding her interlocutor that Russia still controls gas supplies for many parts of Europe. “If someone is beating you like a piñata, are you just going to be quiet? ... The ban on imports is only the beginning. Winter is coming. We’ll see who is the last one laughing then. Let Europe pay.” Not all of Europe is going to pay equally, however. Bloomberg's Mark Whitehouse published a chart Friday showing the meat exec may be disappointed if she thinks the ban will have much reach beyond economies near Russia. Here are the countries ranked by targeted goods as a share of GDP. Mark Whitehouse/Bloomberg/ As The Wall Street Journal reported Thursday, Russian sanctions now target goods worth $8.7 billion, an insignificant amount on the scale of the EU's $18 trillion and America's $16 trillion economy. "If Putin wants to hurt the likes of the U.S. and Germany, he's missing his target," Whitehouse writes. "If he wants to reprimand his eastern European neighbors for joining the West, he has chosen a more appropriate weapon." Click here to read the full story on FT.com » FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersVehicles sit parked in a lot at a General Motors vehicle factory in Sao Jose dos CamposDETROIT (Reuters) - General Motors  said on Friday it is recalling 269,000 vehicles to fix a variety of defects. The largest of the five recalls involves 202,115 Saturn Vue crossovers from model years 2002-2004 to replace faulty ignition cylinders. GM said the ignition key in some cases can be removed while the vehicle is running. The company said two crashes and one injury could be related to the issue. GM also is recalling 48,059 Cadillac ATS sedans and Buick Encore crossovers from 2013 for seat-belt flaws, as well as 14,940 Chevrolet Impala sedans from 2014-2015 for a defective console latch. The two remaining recalls involve a small number of Chevrolet Aveo and Pontiac G3 models for a brake fluid issue, as well as a small number of Chevrolet Spark models for a suspension problem.  (Reporting by Paul Lienert in Detroit; Editing by Chris Reese) FREE AppDownload
ABC 7 Yihao Ben Pu smiled when he went to court in 2011.Former Citadel employee Yihao Ben Pu faces up to 20 years in prison after pleading guilty to stealing secret quantitative information from the Chicago-based hedge fund and another firm, Bloomberg News reports. Pu entered into the plea agreement with federal prosecutors on Thursday. While admitting that he stole codes from Citadel, he also confessed that he had taken codes from an unnamed New Jersey-based firm, the report said. Pu now faces up to a combined 20 years for each of the two counts. He also faces up to $500,000 in fines for the two counts, according to Bloomberg News.  In 2011, federal authorities arrested Pu, a former quantitative engineer, for stealing sensitive information about the fund's computer-driven trading strategies and downloading it to his personal devices before attempting to destroy them.  He attempted to destroy those devices by throwing them into a sanitary canal, ABC channel 7 in Chicago reported. Divers were able to retrieve the external devices that contained Citadel's alphas.  Citadel, which is run by billionaire Ken Griffin, is known for being incredibly secretive.  Michael Lewis' book "Flash Boys" briefly details how it takes five swipes just to get to the trading floor. ABCThis is the canal where divers found Pu's external devices."I read that passage in the book and thought how many card swipes does it take. One from the garage, the main floor, one to the turnstile, one to the elevator floor, and two to get to the desk, to the trading division. Again, the book is a great story. We obviously pay a lot of attention to protecting our intellectual property," Griffin said at the CNBC Delivering Alpha conference last month.  Griffin added that it was incredibly important for him to protect his fund's computer code.  "You know all this is, is idea, thoughts, and concepts expressed in computer code. And unfortunately, that intellectual property is readily moved, and it's very important for us to protect it," Griffin explained, adding, "Think about how much of an effort Coca-Cola makes to protect the recipe for Coke. We have to do the same thing to protect our intellectual property."  You've been warned.  FREE AppDownload
AFPFor those seeking commercial sex in Berlin, Peppr, a new app, makes life easy. Type in a location and up pops a list of the nearest prostitutes, along with pictures, prices and physical particulars. Results can be filtered, and users can arrange a session for a EUR5-10 ($6.50-13) booking fee. It plans to expand to more cities. Peppr can operate openly since prostitution, and the advertising of prostitution, are both legal in Germany. But even where they are not, the internet is transforming the sex trade. Prostitutes and punters have always struggled to find each other, and to find out what they want to know before pairing off. Phone-box "tart cards" for blonde bombshells and leggy señoritas could only catch so many eyes. Customers knew little about the nature and quality of the services on offer. Personal recommendations, though helpful, were awkward to come by. Sex workers did not know what risks they were taking on with clients. Now specialist websites and apps are allowing information to flow between buyer and seller, making it easier to strike mutually satisfactory deals. The sex trade is becoming easier to enter and safer to work in: prostitutes can warn each other about violent clients, and do background and health checks before taking a booking. Personal web pages allow them to advertise and arrange meetings online; their clients' feedback on review sites helps others to proceed with confidence. Even in places such as America, where prostitution and its facilitation are illegal everywhere except Nevada, the marketing and arrangement of commercial sex is moving online. To get round the laws, web servers are placed abroad; site-owners and users hide behind pseudonyms; and prominently placed legalese frames the purpose of sites as "entertainment" and their content as "fiction". The shift online is casting light on parts of the sex industry that have long lurked in the shadows. Streetwalkers have always attracted the lion's share of attention from policymakers and researchers because they ply their trade in public places. They are more bothersome for everyone else--and, because they are the most vulnerable, more likely to come to the attention of the police and of social or health workers. But in many rich countries they are a minority of all sex workers; just 10-20% in America, estimates Ronald Weitzer, a sociologist at George Washington University. The wealth of data available online means it is now possible to analyze this larger and less examined part of the commercial-sex market: prostitution that happens indoors. It turns out to be surprisingly similar to other service industries. Prostitutes' personal characteristics and the services they offer influence the prices they charge; niche services attract a premium; and the internet is making it easier to work flexible hours and to forgo a middleman. Websites such as AdultWork allow prostitutes, both those working independently and those who work through agencies and brothels, to create profiles through which customers can contact them. They can upload detailed information about themselves, the range of services they provide, and the rates they charge. Clients can browse by age, bust or dress size, ethnicity, sexual orientation or location. Other websites garner information from clients, who upload reviews of the prostitutes they have visited with details of the services offered, prices paid and descriptions of the encounters. On PunterNet, a British site, clients describe the premises, the encounter and the sex worker, and choose whether to recommend her. Such write-ups have enabled her to build a personal brand, says one English escort, Michelle (like many names in this article, a pseudonym), and to attract the clients most likely to appreciate what she offers. We have analyzed 190,000 profiles of sex workers on an international review site. (Since it is active in America, it was not willing to be identified for this article. A disclaimer on the site says the contents are fictional; we make the assumption that they are informative all the same.) Each profile includes customers' reviews of the worker's physical characteristics, the services they offer and the price they charge. The data go back as far as 1999. For each individual we have used the most recent information available, with prices corrected for inflation. Some of those featured may appear under more than one name, or also work through agencies. The data cover 84 cities in 12 countries, with the biggest number of workers being in America and most of the rest in big cities in other rich countries. As this site features only women, our analysis excludes male prostitutes (perhaps a fifth of the commercial-sex workforce). Almost all of those leaving reviews are men. The most striking trend our analysis reveals is a drop in the average hourly rate of a prostitute in recent years (see chart 1). One reason is surely the downturn that followed the 2007-08 financial crisis. Even prostitutes working in places that escaped the worst effects have been hit. Vanessa, a part-time escort in southern England, finds that weeks can go by without her phone ringing. Men see buying sex as a luxury, she says, and with the price of necessities rising it is one they are cutting back on. Even when she offers discounts to whip up interest, clients are scarcer than they were.  In places where the job market slumped, the effect is more marked (whether prostitution is legal may affect prices, too, but the wide variation between American cities shows that this is not the only factor). The cost of an hour with an escort in Cleveland, Ohio, where unemployment peaked at 12.5% in 2010, has tumbled. Large-scale migration is another reason prices are falling. Big, rich cities are magnets for immigrants of all professions, including sex workers. Nick Mai of London Metropolitan University has studied foreign sex workers in Britain. He has found that as they integrate and get used to the local cost-of-living, their rates tend to rise. But where the inward flow is unceasing, or where the market was previously very closed, immigrants can push prices down. Since the European Union enlarged to include poorer eastern European countries, workers of every sort have poured into their richer neighbours. By all accounts prices have been dropping in Germany as a result of the arrival of new, poor migrants, says Rebecca Pates of the University of Leipzig. Sally, a semi-retired British escort who runs a flat in the west of England where a few "mature" women sell sex, says English girls are struggling to find work: there are too many eastern European ones willing to accept less. Twenty years ago most prostitutes in Norway were locals who all aimed to charge about the same, says May-Len Skilbrei, a sociologist at Oslo University. Today, with growing numbers of sex workers from the Baltic states and central Europe, as well as Nigerians and Thais, such unofficial price controls are harder to sustain. Inexperience is another reason newcomers to prostitution may underprice themselves, at least at first. Maxine Doogan, an American prostitute and founder of the Erotic Service Providers Union, a lobby group, learned her trade from a woman who worked for years in a brothel in Nevada, the only American state where prostitution is legal. The older woman taught her what to regard as standard or extra, and how much to charge. When Ms Doogan started out, in 1988, standard services (vaginal sex and fellatio) cost $200 an hour, the equivalent of $395 today. But some of those starting out now still charge $200, she says, or offer extra services, including risky ones such as oral sex without a condom, without charging an appropriate premium. The shift online has probably boosted supply by drawing more locals into the sex trade, too. More attractive and better-educated women, whose marital and job prospects are therefore better, are more likely to consider sex work if it is arranged online. Indoor sex work is safer than streetwalking, and the risk of arrest is lower. Rented flats or hotel rooms are more discreet than brothels, so family and friends are less likely to identify the new source of income. Anonymity becomes a possibility, which lessens the fear of stigma. Creating an online profile separates the decision to take up the work from parading for punters. Meanwhile, broader social change may be reducing demand--and thus, prices. Free, no-strings-attached sex is far easier to find than in the past. Apps such as Tinder facilitate speedy hookups; websites such as Ashley Madison and Illicit Encounters, adulterous ones. Greater acceptance of premarital intercourse and easier divorce mean fewer frustrated single and married men turning to prostitutes. Our analysis shows how a prostitute's hourly rate varies according to the nature of the services she provides and her reported physical characteristics. As in other bits of the economy, clients who seek niche services must pay more. Sex workers who offer anal sex or spanking earn on average $25 or $50 more per hour, respectively (see chart 2). Those who will accept two male clients at once or do threesomes with another woman command a larger premium. Appearance matters a great deal. The customers who reported encounters to the website we analyzed clearly value the stereotypical features of Western beauty: women they describe as slim but not scrawny, or as having long blonde hair or full breasts, can charge the highest hourly rates (see chart 3). Hair that is bleached too unconvincingly to be described as blonde attracts a lower premium, but is still more marketable than any other color. For those not naturally well endowed, breast implants may make economic sense: going from flat-chested to a D-cup increases hourly rates by approximately $40, meaning that at a typical price of $3,700, surgery could pay for itself after around 90 hours. The 12% share of women featured on the site who are described both as athletic, slim or thin, and as being at least a D-cup, suggests that quite a few have already taken this route. A prostitute's rates also vary according to her ethnicity and nationality. What attracts a premium in one place can attract a penalty in another. According to our analysis, in four big American cities and London, black women earn less than white ones (see chart 4). We had too few data from other cities for a reliable breakdown by ethnicity. But Christine Chin of the American University in Washington, DC, has studied high-end transnational prostitutes in several countries. In Kuala Lumpur, she found, black women command very high rates and in Singapore, Vietnamese ones do. In Dubai, European women earn the most. What counts as exotic and therefore desirable varies from place to place, and depends on many factors, such as population flows. Local markets have other quirks. According to the site we analyzed, an hour with an escort in Tokyo is a bargain compared with one in London or New York. Yet a cost-of-living index compiled by the Economist Intelligence Unit, our sister organization, suggests that Tokyo is the most expensive city overall of the three. The apparent anomaly may be because escorts who appear on an English-language review site mostly cater to foreigners, who are not offered the more unusual--and expensive--services Japanese prostitutes provide for locals. These include the bubble baths and highly technical massages of Sopurando ("Soapland"), a red-light district in Tokyo, which can cost ¥60,000 ($600) for a session and involve intercourse (although that is not advertised). A degree appears to raise earnings in the sex industry just as it does in the wider labour market. A study by Scott Cunningham of Baylor University and Todd Kendall of Compass Lexecon, a consultancy, shows that among prostitutes who worked during a given week, graduates earned on average 31% more than non-graduates. More lucrative working patterns rather than higher hourly rates explained the difference. Although sex workers with degrees are less likely to work than others in any given week (suggesting that they are more likely to regard prostitution as a sideline), when they do work they see more clients and for longer. Their clients tend to be older men who seek longer sessions and intimacy, rather than a brief encounter. How much brothels and massage parlors use the internet depends on local laws. America's legal restrictions mean that they keep a low profile, both offline and online. In Britain, where brothels are illegal though prostitution is not, massage parlours advertise the rotas and prices of their workers online but are coy about the services rendered. By contrast Paradise, a mega-brothel in Germany, boasts a frank and informative website. But it is independent sex workers for whom the internet makes the biggest difference. Mr Cunningham has tracked the number of sex workers in American cities on one review site. In the decade to 2008, during which online advertising for commercial sex took off, the share describing themselves as independent grew. For prostitutes, the internet fulfills many of the functions of a workplace. It is a "break-room and hiring hall", says Melissa Gira Grant, the author of "Playing the Whore: The Work of Sex Work". Online forums replace the office water-cooler. Women exchange tips on dealing with the everyday challenges of sex work; a busy thread on one forum concerns which sheets stand up best to frequent washing. A mother in Scotland asks how other prostitutes juggle child care and selling sex, given that bookings are often made at short notice so babysitters are hard to arrange. Another contributor who is thinking of having children asks how much other women saved before taking time off to have a baby, and whether the new calls on their time meant they earned less after giving birth. One reply points out that prostitution is easier than many other jobs to combine with motherhood: it pays well enough to cover child-care costs, and can be fitted around school holidays, plays and sports days, and children's illnesses. Women who are considering entering the industry often seek advice online from those already in it before making up their minds. Melanie, who earns £65,000 ($109,000) a year, says that she is considering selling sex on the side for a few months to pay off debts. She asks which agency to use and how to get the highest rate. But she also worries that a stint selling sex would harm her future career. Experienced sex workers respond that anonymity will be easier to preserve if she works independently, rather than through an agency, and warn her that she is entering a crowded market. The stress of living a double life should not be underestimated, they caution, and it will not be easy money. Many of those contributing to such discussions hold other jobs, often part-time, and tout the merits of a steady source of additional income and something innocuous to put on a CV. Sarah says her escort work means she can pay for her daughter's dance and music lessons, which would be unaffordable on just her "civvy job". Some husbands and boyfriends know about their wives' and girlfriends' work, or even act as managers, drivers and security. Other women keep what they do a secret from those closest to them. Advertising and booking clients online give prostitutes flexibility about where to work. They can "tour", using their own home pages or profiles on specialist websites to advertise where they will be and when. In densely populated Britain, where prostitutes work in most places, tours allow those who normally serve small towns to visit cities crammed with potential customers. In Norway, says Ms Skilbrei, prostitutes are concentrated in the main cities, so a tour is a chance to satisfy pent-up demand in small towns. The freelancers, part-timers and temps the internet is bringing to the sex trade are likely to help it absorb demand shocks. In 2008 the Republican and Democratic national conventions were held in Minneapolis and Denver respectively. Around 50,000 visitors flocked to each city. Another study by Mr Cunningham and Mr Kendall found that the numbers of advertisements for sex on the now-defunct "erotic services" section of Craigslist, a classified-advertising site, were 41% higher in Minneapolis and 74% higher in Denver around the conventions than expected for those days of the week and times of year. Sex work exposes those who do it to serious risks: of rape and other violence, and of sexually transmitted infections. But in this industry, like many others, the internet is making life easier. Online forums allow prostitutes to share tips about how to stay safe and avoid tangling with the law. Some sites let them vouch for clients they have seen, improving other women's risk assessments. Others use services such as Roomservice 2000, another American site, where customers can pay for a background check to present to sex workers. Both sides benefit since the client can demonstrate trustworthiness without giving credit-card details or phone numbers to the prostitute. Sites that are active in restrictive jurisdictions must be careful not to fall foul of the law. In June the FBI shut down MyRedBook, an advertising-and-review site with a chat section for sex workers. Its owners face charges of money laundering and facilitating prostitution. American police sometimes use such sites to entrap prostitutes. As they wise up to this, sex workers are using sites that allow them to verify clients' identities to help them avoid stings. But that adds unnecessary hassle and distracts from what should be most important: staying safe. "Screening for cops [is now] the priority over screening for rapists, thieves, kidnappers," says Ms Doogan. In Britain, Ugly Mugs runs an online database that prostitutes can use to check punters' names and telephone numbers. In America the National Blacklist, a "deadbeat registry", allows them to report men who are abusive or fail to pay. Other women can check potential clients by names, telephone numbers, e-mail addresses and online aliases. Though not specifically aimed at sex workers, apps such as Healthvana make it easy for buyer and seller to share verified results in sexual-health tests. Moving online means prostitutes need no longer rely on the usual intermediaries--brothels and agencies; pimps and madams--to drum up business or provide a venue. Some will decide to go it alone. That means more independence, says Ana, a Spanish-American erotic masseuse who works in America and Britain. It also means more time, effort and expertise put into marketing. "You need a good website, lots of great pictures, you need to learn search-engine optimization...it's exhausting at times," she says. Others will still prefer to have a manager or assistant to take care of bookings and social media. "[Nowadays] you have people hitting you up on Twitter, Facebook, your website, and e-mail," says Ms Doogan. Eros.com, an international listings site, allows prostitutes to tell clients whether they are currently available. But it means going online every hour or two, which is a chore. And online advertising is not cheap. Ms Doogan used to spend 10% of her income on print adverts; she spends far more on online ones because with so many people advertising, returns are lower. Checking customers' bona fides also takes time. Meanwhile some traditional forms of prostitution are struggling. In the decade to 2010 the number of licensed sex clubs in the Netherlands fell by more than half, according to a study for Platform31, a Dutch research network. Much of the decline will have been offset by the growth of sex work advertised online, it reckons. Many prostitutes would rather work from private premises than in a club or for an agency, says Sietske Altink, one of the authors. Dutch municipalities often bar such work--but the option of finding clients online makes such rules harder to enforce. That shift will make the sex industry harder for all governments to control or regulate, whether they seek to do so for pragmatic or moralistic reasons, or out of concern that not all those in the industry are there by their own free will. Buyers and sellers of sex who strike deals online are better hidden and more mobile than those who work in brothels, or from clubs or bars, points out Professor Weitzer of George Washington University. Ireland has banned the advertising of sexual services since 1994. The prohibition has achieved almost nothing, says Graham Ellison, a sociologist at Queen's University in Belfast. Websites simply moved to other jurisdictions. The closure of those such as MyRedBook may prompt American ones to do the same; as they grow more specialized, the excuse that they merely host classified advertisements is wearing thin. In the long term there will always be people who, for whatever reason, want to hire a prostitute rather than do without sex or pick up a partner in a bar. As paid-for sex becomes more readily and discreetly available online, more people will buy it. A greater awareness may develop that not all sex workers are the victims of exploitation. The very discretion--and the hidden nature of such prostitution--may also mean that the stigma persists. But, overall, sex workers will profit. The internet has disrupted many industries. The oldest one is no exception. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
Housing markets across the country may be poised to pick back up, now that the economy has begun to fully recover. Millennials may finally be ready to move out from their parents' homes and start households of their own. We recently took a look at the Bureau of Economic Analysis' new state-level breakdown of consumption expenditures. Personal expenditures on housing especially stuck out to us. The BEA assembles this component of consumption by factoring in rent for renters, a measure of equivalent rent for homeowners based on rental costs for similar homes, and household utilities like electricity, water, and natural gas. This map shows the amount of money per capita spent on housing and utilities in each state in 2012: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Bureau of Economic Analysis We noted that, as would be expected, people spend more on housing on the coasts than in the middle of the country, fueled by the very high real estate prices of the big coastal cities. We also wanted to see how this has changed since the darkest days of the Great Recession after the collapse of the housing bubble. Here is the percent change in per capita housing and utilities expenditure between 2009 and 2012: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from BEA and Census Bureau This shows a bit of a different pattern, with housing expenditures rising faster in the middle of the country and Alaska than on the coasts. While spending on housing increased in most states, it actually decreased between 2009 and 2012 in six states: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from BEA and Census Bureau
REUTERS/Jason ReedDancer Brooke Lockett (2nd R) is pictured with her Australian Ballet colleagues (from L to R) Kismet Bourne, Emma MacFarlane and Corey Herbet at the Bondi Icebergs oceanside pool in Sydney, August 7, 2014.It was supposed to be a risk-off day. But stocks rallied. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories: FREE AppDownload
A recent Quora post prompted the question, "What are some of the most mind-blowing facts that sound like "BS", but are actually true?" They might be hard to believe, but these facts about geography, people and events are in fact true.  Produced by Justin Gmoser. Follow BI Video: On YouTube
 The business of Wall Street is changing — trading desks are shrinking, while once-"boring" businesses are bringing in the revenue that banks need to pull through quiet markets. This is the kind of environment in which all kinds of unexpected things can happen if the right person sees an opportunity and seizes it. It's how four partners in a Morgan Stanley wealth management office in Tuscaloosa, Alabama, The W H M Z Group, quietly amassed just under $1 billion in assets under management in four offices across the southeastern U.S. Consider this as a case study of the changing landscape of finance — of what's working and what isn't since the crash of 2008. There are new challenges. Offices like W H M Z are regional and independent, but they have to be sophisticated and strategic on the business side as well. Of course, it always helps to think ahead and see these kinds of changes developing. "Michael [Warr, the executive director,] was very early to recognize that the role of the brokers and financial advisers was just an access point and was not the future," said Alistair Harding-Smith, a CFA and Senior Portfolio Manager at W H M Z. "It was not going to be the foundation of our practice. The complexity of families managing wealth was going to get harder and harder." What that means is that when Warr started out as a sole practitioner in financial advising 15 years ago, he saw that the industry and market conditions were changing rapidly. Investing wisely for the future was about to get more intricate, no matter whom or what you were investing for. To Warr, that meant building the right team, one focused equally on risk management and investment expertise, as well as relationship building. "The team concept, when we built the team, was still new to the industry," Warr said. That's where Harding-Smith came in. British by birth, he spent much of his career at Barclays and BlackRock as an investment strategist and portfolio manager for pension funds. He focused on hedging strategies and risk management. Combining Harding-Smith's sophisticated investing experience with Warr's local relationships proved to be a hit with clients, and it became the cornerstone of their business. And there's a lot of business to be done. Like Warr, after the financial crisis, Morgan Stanley CEO James Gorman saw that Wall Street was shifting away from riskier operations like trading, toward more stable ones like wealth management. Thus, becoming a leader in wealth management became the firm's focus. Now Morgan Stanley's wealth management division has $2 trillion assets under management. In Q2 2014 the division brought in $3.7 billion, up from $3.5 billion at the same time last year. Pre-tax income came in at $767 million compared with $655 million in the same quarter of 2013. Additionally, profit margins hit 21% for the first time since Morgan Stanley bought brokerage Smith Barney. The purchase was as a joint venture with Citigroup (Morgan Stanley bought Citigroup out of the venture last year). But again, not all of this can be run out of New York City and other regional financial centers. To succeed in a business like this, one must get to clients where they feel comfortable. Warr was able to get the importance of Harding-Smith's knowledge across to clients who may or may not have heard of the CFA exam at all. That's important, but what W H M Z found was that its clients really just wanted to deal with the right adviser close to home. "We really like to hang our hat on a very impressive background in investment strategy," Warr added, "but at the end of the day people do business with people they like and they trust." There are additional challenges away from the mothership in New York City — one is the daily operations of an office and its business development. As the market becomes more competitive, it's more important than ever that clients know who you are and what your business is about. Things need to run like a dream. Every office has to come up with its own strategy to do that. Each year the W H M Z goes through a rigorous evaluation of its operations — how the office's 16 employees communicate with one another as well as the clients. "We're not trying to build something to be the best down here; we're trying to be the best," Warr said. That's part of how, from an office in the deep South, W H M Z Group was able to snap up clients from not just regional centers like Charlotte, North Carolina, but also New York City and Los Angeles. It's a whole new world, people.   FREE AppDownload
Bonds are rallying. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note touched 2.37% earlier on Friday, the lowest level since June 2013. The world's safe haven asset classes in general have been doing great this week as geopolitical turmoil has the world on edge. "Risk aversion rules," Societe Generale's Kit Juckes said. "The Ukraine conflict shows no sign of being resolved (rather, there’s far too high a chance of escalation for comfort). Overnight, the U.S. has approved limited airstrikes in Northern Iraq. The conflict on Gaza, too, is in danger of re-escalation. Investors have plenty of reasons to take risk off the table and are doing so across the board." Other traditional safe havens that have been doing well are the yen, which has been strengthening against the world's major currencies; German bonds, which saw yields on the two-year security go negative; and gold, which rallied to a three-week high on Friday. The rally in Treasury securities is particularly notable. After what's been a 30-year long bull market, most Wall Street strategists and economists were convinced that rates would be up this year, especially as the Federal Reserve slowly exits that market and prepares to tighten monetary policy. Bloomberg.com FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe head offices of Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc. are seen in Laval, Quebec(Reuters) - The federal judge in California overseeing Allergan Inc's &lt;agn.n&gt; insider trading lawsuit against Valeant Pharmaceuticals &lt;vrx.to&gt; and activist investor William Ackman has set an Aug. 20 hearing date to decide on a fast-track schedule for the case, according to court documents. Allergan, fighting a hostile takeover by Valeant and Ackman's Pershing Square Capital Management hedge fund, filed the lawsuit on Aug. 1. The Botox maker said in the complaint that Valeant and Ackman violated securities laws on tender offers when they teamed up on a $48 billion cash and stock offer. The case could have implications for efforts by Pershing Square, which owns nearly 10 percent of Allergan's shares, and Valeant to call and hold a meeting of Allergan shareholders to vote in new board members. Under Allergan's bylaws, Ackman needs 25 percent of shareholders to ask the company to call a meeting. Pershing Square has been gathering investor support and has said that it plans to submit the request in mid-August. Those bylaws also say that Allergan cannot accept a special meeting request if there is a violation of securities rules, such as insider trading. Ackman and Valeant offered to buy Allergan on April 22 and laid out a plan for spending cuts at the company. It later launched a hostile tender offer for its shares. Allergan has mounted a defense that includes its own cost-cutting plans, and has urged shareholders not to support the meeting or the deal. Judge David Carter in U.S. District Court, Central District of California, said in the documents that he would consider Allergan's request for an expedited schedule at a hearing rather than outside of "normal procedures," as requested.   (Reporting by Caroline Humer; Editing by Jonathan Oatis) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersGary Rodkin, ConAgra chief executive officer, speaks during the Reuters Food Summit in ChicagoBy Olivia Oran and Nadia Damouni (Reuters) - ConAgra Foods Inc's long-time chief executive, Gary Rodkin, is expected to retire in the next several months, according to two people familiar with the matter, paving the way for a successor who investors hope can turn around the ailing packaged foods company. The Chef Boyardee maker, which has a market capitalization of $13 billion, is in the early stages of reaching out to potential candidates to succeed Rodkin, the people said, asking not to be named since the matter is confidential. Rodkin, who has been at the helm of ConAgra since 2005, has been under pressure from shareholders to fix problems resulting from the Omaha-based company's troubled $5 billion acquisition of private brands business Ralcorp in January 2013. A ConAgra spokeswoman did not immediately respond to requests for comment. With its purchase of Ralcorp, ConAgra became the biggest U.S. private-label food company. But that business of selling food under supermarket brands has struggled to reach promised profit targets, in part due to cut-price deals Ralcorp had struck with customers before it was taken over. Shares of ConAgra, which were trading at around $30 before the Ralcorp takeover, are now trading at roughly the same level. Rodkin, 62, said in June that the company, which also makes Slim Jim meat snacks and Healthy Choice frozen meals, had underestimated the issues it inherited by buying RalCorp, which had just started to restructure. "We knew there would be work to do but underestimated the degree of difficulty and the amount of time it would take to course-correct," Rodkin said on the most recent earnings conference call. Before the acquisition by ConAgra, Ralcorp was the target of activist investment fund Corvex Management, who had been pushing the company to consider alternatives including a sale. In the most recent quarter ended May 25, ConAgra reported fourth quarter earnings of 55 cents per share, which was lower than its forecast of 60 cents per share. ConAgra's shares have fallen around 9 percent so far this year even as food stocks have climbed across the board. The S&amp;P Food &amp; Beverage select industry index has gained more than 4 percent year-to-date buoyed by large deals like Tyson Foods Inc's $8.55 billion offer for Hillshire Brands Co. Rodkin previously served as chairman and chief executive officer of PepsiCo beverages and foods in North America.   (Reporting by Olivia Oran and Nadia Damouni in New York; Editing by Bernard Orr) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersBonventre, back-office director for Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, exits the Manhattan Federal Court house in New YorkBy Jonathan Stempel NEW YORK (Reuters) - In a setback for the trustee seeking money for the former customers of imprisoned fraudster Bernard Madoff, an appeals court refused to void two settlements benefiting investors who sued "feeder funds" that sent their money to Madoff. Friday's unanimous decision by a three-judge panel of the 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in New York leaves intact a $410 million settlement with J. Ezra Merkin, a Wall Street hedge fund manager who oversaw the Ariel Fund Ltd and Gabriel Capital LP, and an $80 million settlement with Fairfield Greenwich Ltd. The Merkin settlement had been negotiated by New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman and also resolved claims by Bart Schwartz, the receiver of the Ariel and Gabriel funds. Irving Picard, the trustee liquidating Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, claimed the settlements impeded his ability to recoup fraudulent transfers that Madoff made to Merkin and Fairfield, and which belong to the firm's estate. Writing for the appeals court, however, Circuit Judge Robert Sack said Picard "is incapable of establishing either that the settlements would in fact have an immediate adverse economic consequence for the BLMIS estate, or that the estate is likely to suffer irreparable harm" if the settlements go ahead. Amanda Remus, a spokeswoman for Picard, said the trustee is reviewing the decision, and will keep pursuing his own cases related to Merkin and Fairfield in Manhattan bankruptcy court. The decision upheld rulings last year by U.S. District Judges Jed Rakoff and Victor Marrero allowing the respective Merkin and Fairfield settlements. Picard has recovered $9.83 billion for Madoff customers who lost roughly $17.5 billion of principal in a decades-long  scheme that collapsed in 2008. Madoff, 76, is serving a 150-year prison term. Picard had argued that he could block the Merkin and Fairfield settlements under an "automatic stay" provision in federal bankruptcy law, and a separate federal law protecting investors of failed brokerages. But Sack said Picard had no legal right to any Merkin or Fairfield assets, and that the stay did not cover the question of whether the feeder funds breached duties to their own investors. Sack said it was only "factually likely, as opposed to legally certain," that the settlements affected the Madoff firm's estate at all. A spokesman for Schneiderman had no immediate comment. Merkin's lawyer Andrew Levander did not immediately respond to requests for comment. "The decision makes clear that a trustee like Irving Picard doesn't have the ability to block litigation or settlements of separate claims brought by investors that arise from a complex fraud," Stuart Singer, a lawyer representing Fairfield investors, said in an interview. In March, the 2nd Circuit heard arguments on how much of the "fictitious profits" that Madoff sent to selected customers may be clawed back by Picard. It has yet to rule. The cases are Picard v. Fairfield Greenwich Ltd et al, 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, No. 13-1289; and Picard v. Schneiderman et al in the same court, No. 13-1785.  (Editing by Grant McCool) FREE AppDownload
American college grads are saddled with lots of student debt. With unemployment rates high and delinquencies on the rise, the question is whether student debt is putting the economy at risk of a crisis. In a recent note, Vanguard's Joseph Davis gave some context to this question. He drew up a comparison of student debt levels with mortgage debt levels before the subprime crisis. It's not even close.  At its peak in 2007, mortgage debt to GDP was 62%. Right now, outstanding student debt is just 7%. Davis created a handy table showing further comparisons. VanguardThe drag from increased student debt levels is not nothing — Davis calculates that student debt lowers the probability of owning a home in one's lifetime by 1.5% and that between 2008 and 2012 U.S. housing demand fell by approximately 36,000 homes per year (or 3.5% of first-time home buyers) as a result of growing student debt volumes. But the benefits to income from greater education far outweigh those costs: While the existence of student debt lowers the odds of homeownership, graduating from college increases the likelihood of purchasing a home by 10.8%, relative to not attending college at all. All this debt, then, is presumably leading to a payoff. It may be slower in coming, but we're definitely not heading over a Lehman cliff because of it.  FREE AppDownload
China state TVPeter Humphrey, a British private detective, has been sentenced to two and a half years in prison in China for his role in the investigation of a corruption scandal inside GlaxoSmithKline, according to the South China Morning Post. Humphrey's son previously blamed the drug company for his father's plight, according to The Telegraph. Humphrey, 58, and his wife Yu Yingzeng already languished in a Chinese jail for a year before trial. He was charged with accessing private information on Chinese citizens illegally in the course of his investigation of Vivian Shi, GSK's former government relations manager, and her connections to the Chinese government. You can read a live blog of the Shanghai trial here. Humphrey was commissioned to investigate Shi after a secretly filmed video showing a GSK executive having sex with his girlfriend inside their private apartment was sent to senior GSK executives. The video was apparently a message targeting Mark Reilly, the British chief of GSK's China division, who was conducting his own internal company inquiry into whether Chinese employees of GSK had paid bribes to promote the company's products.But GSK did not tell Humphrey of the existence of the sex tape or the bribery allegations until weeks after he had started his investigation. The company also did not tell him about a series of detailed emails that a whistleblower had sent GSK executives alleging a bribery scheme. Instead, GSK asked Humphrey to find out what Shi's exact links were to China's government. During his investigation — and his work for other companies — Humphrey allegedly gathered thousands of documents on Chinese nationals, and sold that info to Western corporations. The court found both Humphrey and Yu guilty of violating citizens' rights. Here's how the verdict came down, at the end of a one-day trial, according to the Post: 11.07 pm: The couple have five days to appeal this verdict. Court is adjourned. 11.05 pm: The court sentences Yu to two years and in prison on charges of "illegally obtaining private information", and a fine of 150,000 yuan. 11.00 pm: The court sentences Humphrey to two years and six months in jail on charges of "illegally obtaining private information", a fine of 200,000 yuan, and deportation from China after serving the jail term. 10.30 pm: The verdict will be released after the court rests. A company spokesperson told Business Insider, "GSK China hired ChinaWhys [Humphrey's company] in April 2013 to conduct an investigation following a serious breach of privacy and security related to the company’s China general manager. They were not hired to investigate the substance of the allegations of misconduct made by the whistleblower." AP / Mark Reilly / LinkedInMark Reilly, GSK's China chief.Humphrey's son, 19-year-old Harvey, told The Telegraph, "I do not feel different at all about China. I would not blame this on China. The cause is not the Chinese, it is GSK": But GSK allegedly denied to Mr Humphrey and his wife that any of the allegations of bribery in the whistleblower's emails were true. "They said the allegations were untrue," said Harvey. "Then two weeks later they said actually these things did happen. My father would have changed the conditions of the investigation if he had known. He would have investigated the allegations instead of this one person. I do not think as an investigator you would have taken the risk of investigating a whistleblower before you investigated the allegations." ... "When I saw my dad last Friday, I mentioned GSK once. I mentioned Reilly to him once. He expressed a very low opinion of Reilly." GSK fired 20 Chinese staff after the whistleblower emails emerged. GSK says it investigated the claims, but could not verify them specifically. "While some fraudulent behaviour relating to expense claims was found, we did not at that time find evidence to substantiate the specific allegations,” the company said at the time. FREE AppDownload
An Argentine billionaire, Eduardo Eurnekian, is arranging a deal to get his country out of default before it's too late, Bloomberg reports. Deutsche Bank, JP Morgan, Citigroup and HSBC are all said to be in talks with Eurnekian and a group of hedge fund holdout creditors. Argentina owes the holdouts over $1.3 billion worth of sovereign debt dating back to the country's 2001 default, according to a U.S. Court order. The Republic, however, says that it cannot pay the holdouts — led by hedge fund manager Paul Singer, founder of Elliott Management — more than 30 cents on the dollar, which is what 0ver 90% of other holders of the same bonds have accepted. Singer wants 100 cents on the dollar, but Bloomberg reports that his fund might be willing to accept 80 to 85 cents on the dollar in a deal with banks. In an interview with Argentina's Radio Mitre, Eurnekian said: “The banks are working to try to bring people closer. It’s very complex. I don’t know how it gets resolved. It’s an issue for lawyers and financiers. But there’s no doubt that we want to fix this.” Eurnekian runs Corporacion America holding group, which manages businesses ranging from airports to energy. Argentina has said that it cannot pay the holdouts before 2015 because of a clause in its bond contract — the Rights Upon Future Offers, or RUFO Clause. The clause states that if Argentina voluntarily gives some investors a better offer for their investment, others are entitled to the same deal. The RUFO clause expires in 2015. Ideally, banks would purchase the holdout investors' debt — and right to be paid 100 cents on the dollar — for 80 to 85 cents. Then 2015 would come and Argentina would be forced to pay the banks 100 cents on the dollar, making banks a nice tidy profit. But it's hard to trust Argentina here. Investors, attorneys and analysts alike have said that the RUFO clause probably wouldn't be triggered anyway, since it is only triggered in the event of a voluntary deal, and the payment to holdouts under contention would be Court ordered. So if RUFO is just an excuse to force the holdouts into taking a haircut, who is to say the Argentina would pay 100 cents on the dollar to banks later? That said: If the banks do pull this off and manage to win favor with Argentina, they could be the ones to win some amazing business. Since 2001 Argentina has been a pariah in international markets. Lately though, it's been paying some of its debts in order to rejoin the world. It is a rich country, and if it does manage to regain the market's confidence, banks could win big business bringing Argentina back into the fold. In the meantime the rhetoric of Argentine political leaders remains the same. Economy Minister Axel Kicillof has moaned that President Obama should interfere with a U.S. Court's ruling that it pay the holdouts, and is suing the U.S. in the International Court in the Hague. An interesting request from a country that has ignored international Court rulings in the past. Of course, the U.S. has to agree to go to Court in the Hague. So this, more than anything, seems like a classic piece of Argentina political theater. As was this — a two page ad that the Argentine government ran in the New York Times on Thursday, declaring that it was not in default. Judge Thomas Griesa, the man who ruled that Argentina must pay the holdouts, called The Republic's lawyers to Court Friday to discuss it. We are not in default!, says Argentina in 2-page New York Times ad pic.twitter.com/TmAhNi1g1z FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersRobotic arms spot welds on the chassis of a Ford Transit Van under assembly at the Ford Claycomo Assembly Plant in ClaycomoDETROIT (Reuters) - Ford Motor Co  is recalling about 3,000 cargo vans and luxury SUVs in North America in three separate actions to address potential brake hose, sliding door and windshield issues, the No. 2 U.S. automaker said on Friday. Ford is recalling 1,319 Transit cargo vans from model year 2015 for potential brake fluid leak at the joint between the rear brake hose and brake caliper. Any leak could lead to extended stopping distances resulting in an accident. The company said there have been no injuries linked to the issue, but one low-speed accident occurred while vehicles were being moved at the assembly plant. Dealers will replace the sealing washers on both rear brake caliper to brake hose joints at no cost, Ford said. About 1,279 vans sold in the United States, 29 in Canada and 11 in U.S. territories are affected. Ford also said it is recalling 610 of the 2015 Transit cargo vans because the windowless sliding doors were assembled without an epoxy reinforcement that could increase the possibility of the doors becoming unlatched during side impacts. No accidents or injuries have been reported related to this issue, Ford said. Dealers will install a reinforcement plate in the door assemblies at no cost, the company said. About 585 vans sold in the United States, 18 in Canada and seven in U.S. territories are affected. A Ford spokeswoman said 145 of the vans were being recalled for both issues. Ford said it is recalling 1,274 Lincoln MKC SUVs from model year 2015 because there may be bubbles or other defects in the windshields. Air may have become trapped between the layers of glass during the windshield supplier's manufacturing process, which could lead to bubbles developing that could affect driver visibility, Ford said. Ford said it is not aware of any accidents or injuries related to the issue. It will replace the windshield at no cost. Affected are about 1,139 SUVs sold in the United States, 117 in Canada and 18 in Mexico.  (Reporting by Ben Klayman in Detroit; Editing by Grant McCool) FREE AppDownload
The U.S. is a consumer driven economy, with personal consumption making up about two thirds of the Gross Domestic Product. How much people are buying and what they're spending their money on, however, vary across the country. The Bureau of Economic Analysis just released a new set of statistics on personal consumption in each state. While the BEA regularly publishes breakdowns on how much money Americans spend on different things for the whole country, this is the first time they have released this data at the state by state level. Here's how consumption expenditures have changed in each state between 2009, the worst year of the Great Recession, and 2012, the most recently available year: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Bureau of Economic Analysis Expenditures grew over this time period in every state, ranging from just a 6.3% increase over this time period in Nevada, to an incredible oil-boom powered 34.7% in North Dakota. BEA also published stats on the different categories of goods and services that people consume. Here's 2012 per capita spending on health care: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Bureau of Economic Analysis Health care expenditures were higher in the North than in the South. Alaska, with $8,173 spent on health care per person; Massachusetts, having $8,816 in per capita expenditures; and Washington, D.C. at $11,985 had the highest health expenditures in the country. Gas and energy expenditures showed some interesting patterns as well: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Bureau of Economic Analysis Gas and energy expenditures were very high in the Great Plains and Mountain states. North Dakota's per capita expenditure was $3,916, the highest in the country, while New Yorkers spent on average $919 on energy, and Hawaiians just $882. As we have seen many times before, housing is most expensive on the coasts, and much less so in the interior of the country: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Bureau of Economic Analysis For more data, check out the BEA's press release here.
Thomson ReutersFile photo of Adidas soccer shoes before company's news conference in HerzogenaurachBy Emma Thomasson BERLIN (Reuters) - Sportswear firm Adidas  probably thought it had hit the marketing jackpot when Adidas-sponsored Germany beat Adidas-sponsored Argentina to win the Adidas-sponsored World Cup.    But arch rival Nike  may have stolen much of its soccer branding thunder with quirky videos, innovative boots and amusing Tweets, not to mention the odd sponsorship coup of its own such as signing up hosts Brazil.    Adidas said it had secured “victory on and off the pitch” at the soccer tournament, providing the highest-scoring boots and generating 22 percent more discussion on social media than Nike. But more than half the players displayed Nike's brightly-coloured shoes and it was one of Nike's new lightweight "Flyknit" boots worn by Germany's Mario Goetze that volleyed in the winning goal.     Nike has been eating into its German rival's market share and some branding experts and investors don't believe throwing more cash into marketing will necessarily fix the problem.    Instead, Adidas needs to spot and set more trends and create a buzz among fashion and sports-mad youngsters.    "At the moment, Nike is cool, very cool. If you ask a 20-year-old, they are not going to pick Adidas right now," said Tammy Smulders, head of marketing consultancy SCB Partners.    "It is not as easy as just writing a cheque. They need to be doing more of the viral, underground activities which brings out the cool factor of the brand."  MARKETING SPEND    After recently issuing its third profit warning in a year, Adidas said on Thursday it would boost spending on marketing to about 13 percent of sales in 2014 and to between 13 and 14 percent of sales in 2015.     The company also said it would give marketing experts more responsibility and bring them closer to sales and product development staff.    Adidas spent 12.4 percent of its 2013 revenue of 14.5 billion euros ($19.4 billion) on sales and marketing, up from 12.1 percent in 2012 and already well above Nike, which spent 10.8 percent of sales of $27.8 billion in the year to May 31.    Adidas chief Herbert Hainer admitted the company, known for its three stripes logo, was being taken on even on its home turf. But he said second-quarter results – including double-digit growth in Germany, Britain, Spain and Italy and a 41 percent jump in soccer sales – showed Adidas was fighting back.    While Nike can focus on its "swoosh" logo and the "Just do it" slogan it has used since 1988, Adidas has to spread its ad budget across a range of brands such as Reebok, TaylorMade golf and Rockport shoes, as well as its Originals and NEO sports-inspired fashion labels.    "They are fighting fires everywhere. Pouring money into marketing might put out some fires, but they will continue to burn elsewhere," said Ingo Speich, a fund manager at Union Investment which has a 1.2 percent stake in Adidas and has repeatedly criticised management in recent months.    YOUNG CONSUMERS While Nike has encroached on Adidas's home territory, the German firm has failed to make serious inroads in North America. The U.S. firm extended its lead to take a 15 percent global market share in 2013 compared with 10.8 percent for Adidas, according to Euromonitor.    Nike has focused on exploiting social media to target young consumers, while Adidas has relied more on official partnerships with the likes of the FIFA World Cup and the National Basketball Association (NBA).     Nike's animated film "The Last Game", featuring soccer stars Cristiano Ronaldo and Neymar on a quest to save football from the hands of a villainous mastermind, has become one of Facebook's most shared posts ever.    "Nike is the cheeky challenger doing guerrilla ambush marketing, whereas Adidas follows the more orthodox line," said Andrew Walsh at sports marketing research group Repucom.     The value of the Nike brand rose 13 percent in 2013 to $17 billion, making it the world's 24th most valuable brand, according to consultancy Interbrand, more than double the value of Adidas on $7.5 billion.    Even though Adidas was thought to have forked out about $100 million to FIFA to sponsor the World Cup, two Nike World Cup ads are among the top 10 most shared ad videos so far this year, according to marketing technology company Unruly. No Adidas videos feature in that ranking, though it says its videos published during the tournament made it the most-viewed sports brand on YouTube.    "Quite a lot of people thought Nike was the official sponsor. They manage to get the benefits without as large an upfront investment," said Leah Donlan, marketing lecturer at Manchester Business School.    TOP CLUBS Adidas has started to replicate Nike's tactics, setting up a “news room” in Rio during the World Cup to generate a stream of social media chatter on its sponsored teams and players. Investment in social media will be a big part of its increased marketing spending and it plans to open similar news rooms in key cities around the world to continue its engagement with fans. But Nike is also investing, launching an interactive Football app. It is kitting out more of Europe's top clubs, such as Barcelona and Paris St Germain, for the 2014/15 season, even though Adidas is ousting Nike at Manchester United  and Italian champions Juventus from next year. Adidas CEO Hainer said the record $1.3 billion shirt deal struck with Manchester United last month - almost three times per year what Nike has been paying the former English champions - and the signing of four of the top six National Basketball Association (NBA) draft players - showed he meant business. “We have three out of the four biggest symbols in the football club world with Real (Madrid), Bayern (Munich) and ManU. This gives us huge reach,” he said, predicting the ManU deal will generate sales of 1.5 billion pounds ($2.5 billion). But not everybody is convinced.    "The ManU deal is too expensive. It might bring management top-line growth and exposure in emerging markets, but means that the expected margin improvement will be delayed," said Stefan-Guenter Bauknecht, fund manager at Deutsche Asset &amp; Wealth Management, which holds a 1.4 percent stake in Adidas.    "The strategy has changed from profitable growth towards building up the top line and the brand image against Nike."    Adidas acknowledges it has cut its 2014 target for its operating margin - operating income as a proportion of sales - to between 6.5 and 7.0 percent for 2014, from 8.5 to 9.0 percent, partly due to higher marketing spend. Nike recorded an operating margin of 13 percent in the fiscal year to May 31. "We know driving higher levels of profitability is absolutely critical to our long-term success, and we will get there. But we will not get there if we are not constantly winning in the marketplace,” Hainer said.     TREND SETTING     Adidas shares, down 39 percent this year after tumbling since last week's profit warning, trade at 16.9 times forward earnings to 22 times for Nike and almost 62 times for fast-growing U.S. upstart Under Armour Inc . The success of Nike's "Flyknit" shoes worn by Goetze - made out of machine-knitted fibre rather than stitched-together pieces - is just the latest example of the U.S. firm's ability to innovate and set trends after its popular wearable "FuelBand" fitness device and "Free" barefoot-feel running shoes.    The Portland, Oregon-based firm has also arguably been quicker than Adidas to respond to booming demand for sportswear from women that has helped drive the rise of yoga specialist Lululemon . Adidas says it has run campaigns targeted at women in the United States and China in the last year. The biggest recent innovation hit Adidas can boast of - which it will now be marketing even harder - is the "Boost" cushioning technology initially developed for running shoes that it is now rolling out to other sports. It expects to sell 8 million pairs of the shoes this year and 15 million in 2015.    A Cowen survey of 2,500 U.S. consumers published last month showed 43 percent named Nike as their first choice of athletic apparel, compared with just 13 percent for Adidas, 6 percent for its Reebok brand, and 14 percent for Under Armour. More than three-quarters of respondents saw Nike as a cool brand.    Adidas is also struggling to dent Nike's dominance at home despite acquiring golf market leader TaylorMade in 1997 and Reebok in 2006. Euromonitor data showed its U.S. market share falling to 5.4 percent in 2013, while Nike grew to 20.2 percent.    DOMINANT POSITION Adidas has not been helped by repeated injuries to basketball star Derrick Rose, whom it signed in 2012 in a 13-year $185 million deal, the biggest ever. In addition to its latest NBA signings, it plans to spend more on marketing "Boost" in a new basketball range this fall.    But Berenberg analyst John Guy said Adidas - under new Americas president Mark King - would be better off investing in its Originals, Boost and Reebok brands, given Nike's dominance in basketball where it has about a 90 percent market share.    "We continue to question the logic of sizeable investments in basketball, where key-man risk is high and endorsement contracts are expensive," said Guy, who rates Adidas a "sell".    CEO Hainer said Adidas will launch its most ambitious brand campaign to date in 2015 after its current "All in or Nothing" slogan, used since the 2012 Olympics in London.    It will also be pushing new collaborations for its Originals label with celebrities Kanye West and Pharrell Williams and is optimistic for new products like relaunches of classic sneaker brand ZX Flux.    Marketing specialist Donlan says investing in building a brand is a long-term project that could take three to five years. But some investors are becoming impatient.    "Management must be shown a yellow card," said Bauknecht at Deutsche Asset &amp; Wealth Management. "There is not much more room for disappointment."     (1 US dollar = 0.7486 euro)  (Additional reporting by Anjali Athavaley; Editing by David Holmes and David Clarke) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Larry DowningU.S. President Barack Obama at the White House after he talks about the humanitarian relief situation in Iraq on Thursday. U.S. airstrikes on Islamic State positions have begun. Fighter jets also bombed Islamic State militants in northwest Iraq on Thursday night. But it's not clear who the pilots were. The Pentagon immediately denied a New York Times report that the U.S. carried out Thursday's strikes.  Iraqi military officials told CNN and The Wall Street Journal that the Iraqi Air Force had struck ISIS targets near Erbil, which is the regional capital of Iraqi Kurdistan and host to hundreds of U.S. military advisers.  The Iraqi Air Force is poorly equipped, consisting of several Cessna planes carrying American-supplied Hellfire missiles, some American- and Russian-supplied helicopters, and Russian-made Su-25 aircraft.  @MichaelKelleyBI Or at least Russian and Iranian pilots in planes with iraqi insignia (Fittingly, geopolitical expert Ian Bremmer of the Eurasia group told Bloomberg TV this morning that the U.S. was "fighting shoulder-to-shoulder, as it were, with the Russians and the Iranians.") Garrett Khoury, the director of research at The Eastern Project, explained that the Iraqi Air Force "recently acquired around a dozen SU-25 ground attack aircraft from Russia (with more possibly coming from Belarus) ... [which] give them the ability to conduct serious ground-support operations. Thursday's attack came two days after Iraqi jets struck an ISIS convoy near the northern city of Mosul. "[The Su-25s] are Russian jets bearing Iraqi insignia, but possibly piloted by Russians," Khoury continued. "Iraq did use the SU-25 during the Saddam Hussein era, and there are probably former Iraqi pilots who flew them, but it has been at best 12 years since any Iraqi pilot got any significant flying time with the plane." The most probable answer is Iraqi Su-25s, manned by Russian or Iranians — or maybe Iraqis.  "The Iraqi government was just as quick to take credit for the strikes as other governments were to deny their involvement, and so, combined with the fact that the IAF can launch such operations, it actually looks like they managed to do it on their own," Khoury told BI. In any case, Iraq's skies are crowded.  A former high-ranking CIA official in Baghdad told Jeff Stein of Newsweek that Turkish jets carried out the airstrikes. “There’s no question about it,” he said, adding that "certainly we are giving them targeting data.”  Stein notes that Turkish F-16s were reportedly patrolling the skies over the area near Sinjar in northern Iraq, where about 50,000 Yezidis are starving after fleeing ISIS militants.  "Iran has used its own Air Force to attack ISIS since the beginning of the group's offensive, but mostly to keep them away from the Iranian border," Khoury said. "Syria has likewise conducted air strikes on ISIS targets on the Iraqi side of their shared border."  Even U.S. President Barack Obama, while announcing the authorization of airstrikes and humanitarian aid in Iraq, allowed for ambiguity about Thursday night's strike. Obama didn't say airstrikes had already happened. He didn't said they hadn't, either. In any case, ISIS is now getting hit from the sky to push it back from Iraqi Kurdistan. Iraqi Air Force Commander Lt. General Anwar Amin told WSJ that Iraqi forces and American advisers were coordinating in joint command centers in Baghdad and Erbil as the Kurds continue to fight on the ground. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe Zynga logo is pictured at the company's headquarters in San Francisco(Reuters) - Zynga Inc's  investors will have to wait until at least next year to see if the company can grow profitably, analysts said after the "Farmville" creator cut its 2014 revenue outlook. At least eight brokerages cut their price targets on the stock, by as much as $2 to a low of $2.83. "It's now a 2015 story," said Jefferies analyst Brian Pitz, who has a "hold" rating on the stock. Zynga's shares fell as much as 7 percent to a 14-month low of $2.71 in heavy early trading on the Nasdaq on Friday. The company, which has not made an annual profit since going public in 2011, said on Thursday it had delayed the launch of new versions of several titles, including "Zynga Poker" and "Words with Friends" as well as mobile games from Natural Motion, a studio it bought in January for $527 million. Zynga said it now expected to get revenue from the new titles in 2015. "Lowered guidance for 2014 and an accompanying reduction in Street estimates for (2015) may help investors to feel that numbers will now be reset to a point where they are more achievable," Piper Jaffray analyst Michael Olson said in a note. Olson has a "neutral" rating on Zynga's stock. Zynga is also investing in sports games by entering into a licensing deal with the National Football League for its "NFL Showdown" game and has partnered with Tiger Woods to develop a mobile golf game for release in 2015. Janney Capital analyst Tony Wible said that while Zynga's strategy of obtaining expensive rights to develop sports games could help it retain players, it also increased risks for the company. "Zynga cannot afford to pay more money for games that fail," said Wible, who has a "neutral" rating on the stock. Zynga's shares were down 5.8 percent at $2.75, with more than 30 million shares trading in the first 50 minutes, compared with the 50-day daily moving average of about 22 million. Up to Thursday's close, the shares had fallen 17 percent  since the start of the year and about 70 percent since the company went public at $10 per share. Of the 23 analysts covering the stock, two have "buy" or higher rating, 18 have a "hold" or equivalent, and three have a "sell", according to Thomson Reuters data.   (Reporting by Soham Chatterjee in Bangalore; Editing by Ted Kerr) FREE AppDownload
StreetEasyThe Co-Chairman of Goldman Sachs' Investment Banking Division, Gordon Dyal, and his wife, Jillian, have sold their Park Avenue apartment for $17.45 million after over two years on the market, Curbed reported. Dyal's apartment originally went up for sale in April 2012 for $23.5 million. Several price cuts brought it down to $17.85 million before it finally sold. The property is a four-bed, 4 1/2 bath condominium on the sixth floor of 521 Park Ave. A total of 4,500 square feet, Dyal's apartment has a game room, a gym, and a 35-foot long gallery upon entering. It was completely renovated in 2010. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA worker dusts a Volkswagen Passat Blue Motion Concept as visitors look on during the North American International Auto Show in DetroitDETROIT (Reuters) - Volkswagen AG  is more than doubling a three-year-old recall of its Chrysler-built Routan minivans that have ignition switches that can be knocked into the accessory position and shut off the engine, according to documents filed with U.S. safety regulators. VW is recalling about 20,417 Routan minivans from model year 2009 in the United States and Canada, adding to the 2010 models it recalled in 2011 for the same issue and bringing the total number of vehicles affected to about 34,210 vehicles, according to the documents filed with the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. A VW spokeswoman said on Friday there have been no reported accidents, injuries or deaths related to the issue, and no other markets were affected. The automaker expanded the recall after Chrysler in late June sent documents for a recall of its own minivans for the issue, saying 2009 Routan models were affected as well, according to the NHTSA documents. In June, Chrysler, a unit of Fiat , added almost 696,000 minivans from model years 2008 and 2009 to a recall of 2010 models for the ignition switch issue. Attention to the issue of ignition switches that can be inadvertently turned off while driving, causing the loss of air bags, power steering and power brakes, increased after General Motors Co  recalled 2.6 million cars because of a defective ignition switch linked to at least 13 deaths. The crisis at the No. 1 U.S. automaker has led to numerous investigations by NHTSA, the U.S. Congress, the U.S. Department of Justice and several state attorneys general. Like other automakers who have dealt with this safety issue, VW is advising customers with the recalled vehicles to remove all items from their key rings, leaving only the ignition key, according to the NHTSA documents. Volkswagen will notify owners, and dealers will modify the ignition switch at no cost, according to the NHTSA documents. The recall is expected to begin by the end of this month. Of the cars affected in the 2009-model recall, about 18,526 were sold in the United States and about 1,891 in Canada, VW said.  (Reporting by Ben Klayman in Detroit; Editing by Paul Simao) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA Costco shopping cart is shown at a Costco Wholesale store in Carlsbad, CaliforniaWASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. wholesale inventories rose less than expected in June, which could have an impact on the growth estimate for the second-quarter. The Commerce Department said on Friday wholesale inventories increased 0.3 percent after a downwardly revised 0.3 percent gain in May. Economists polled by Reuters had expected stocks at wholesalers to rise 0.6 percent in June after a previously reported 0.5 percent increase the prior month. Inventories are a key component of gross domestic product changes. The component that goes into the calculation of GDP - wholesale stocks excluding autos - increased 0.4 percent. A report this week showed stocks of nondurable goods at manufacturers rose far less than the government had assumed in its advance second-quarter gross domestic product estimate published last week. In that report, the government said inventories contributed 1.66 percentage points to GDP growth, which expanded at a 4.0 percent annual pace. Wholesale inventories in June were held back by a decline in automobiles and nondurable goods. Sales at wholesalers rose 0.2 percent after increasing 0.7 percent in May. There were declines in sales of nondurable goods, hardware and apparel. At June's sales pace it would take 1.17 months to clear shelves, unchanged from May.  (Reporting by Lucia Mutikani; Editing by Andrea Ricci) FREE AppDownload
WikimediaThe Seekonk River Bridge in Providence was recently featured on the Art in Ruins blog. For the better part of a century, Providence, Rhode Island, was known as "the jewelry capital of the world." At its peak, the city boasted an estimated 85% of the precious metals products manufactured in the U.S., and the industry was the state's primary source of revenue.  But by the 1980s, jewelry manufacturing was in a tailspin. Between 1978 and 1996, the number of jewelery employees shrank to 13,500 from 32,500, according to The New York Times. Today, Rhode Island employs just over 3,000 jewelry workers, a 70% drop from 2000. It's called the Ocean State, but Rhode Island might better be considered a satellite of the Rust Belt, as it's been in a state of unending decline for nearly three decades. At 7.9%, it now has the country's highest unemployment rate. A plurality of Rhode Islanders are now employed in either healthcare or tourism, while total manufacturing employment has declined 43% since 2000 to 41,000 workers, less than 10% of the overall workforce.   "Rhode Island became a post-manufacturing economy ... over 25 years ago," Len Lardaro, a University of Rhode Island economist, told Business Insider.   What happened?   Andy Kiersz for Business Insider "Several years ago a major American company offered to buy 100,000 corporate medallions from me if I could match, or even come close to, the unit prices they cost in Taiwan: twelve to fourteen cents each,” a retired Rhode Island jewelry executive told editor Ted Klein in his book on the state published in 2008. “I contacted nearly a dozen firms in Providence, and the cheapest price they could quote me was twenty-eight cents.” And yet the cost of doing business did not come down. The state's 9% corporate tax rate has long been one of the highest in the nation. Between 1988 and 1998, property values in the state's five largest cities declined by 24%, or more than $3.3 billion. At the same time, their effective tax rates went up by 44%, according to a 1999 report. And following the Great White concert disaster in 2003, which claimed 100 lives, the state revised its fire code in a way that Bryant University economics professor Ed Tebaldi says inadvertently made it one of the most expensive in the nation.  So the state put its hopes in housing. And it got clobbered. Property values climbed higher and fell harder than the national average, and have struggled to recover since. FRED Since the crash, lending standards have remained ineffectually high, Moody's Chris Lafakis said in a recent note, as the percentage of first mortgage holders with a credit score above 700 climbed much faster in Rhode Island than nationally. And the state's foreclosure inventory remains massive.  Many economists agree that there's only so much elected officials can do to turn around a state's fortunes. The best strategy is ultimately to limit losses and create an environment where companies can thrive. That has not happened in the Ocean State.  "The mindset of our elected officials is, 'When the economy turns around, when the economy turn around' — because most problems tend to be cyclical," Lardaro said. "But that doesn’t happen in a post-manufacturing economy. You have to reinvent yourself." State officials seemed to recognize this. In 2010, they began holding talks with former MLB pitcher Curt Schilling about investing in a project called 38 Studios, according to Boston Magazine's Jason Schwartz. Schilling's firm planned to create a new massively open online game, like The Sims. Faced with a non-existent industrial base and eager to get a foot in the door on what smelled like a techy, innovative source of growth, Rhode Island committed $75 million in loans to the firm. Two years later, 38 Studios filed for bankruptcy, the victim of poor timing in the business cycle, mismanagement, and, allegedly, fraud.  Schilling himself lost $50 million, but the damage to the state's finances, not to mention psyche, has proven more profound. The state now owes 38 studios bondholders $90 million, and just allocated $12.3 million for its latest interest payment.  "People from all persuasions are disgusted" that they remain on the hook for "a crackpot investment scheme concocted behind closed doors by politicians with possibly dubious motives," the Providence Journal said in a recent op-ed.   Repaying the state's obligations has become a central campaign issue in the race to replace Gov. Lincoln Chafee, who is stepping down. The field of five Providence hopefuls are actually split on the issue.   “38 Studios was a bad deal and a bad investment from the very beginning, and now Rhode Island taxpayers are being asked to take the hit for bondholders who should have known better," Republican candidate Ken Block said in May. "As long as there are serious legal questions still to be decided, we need to stop the repayment process.”  The 38 Studios boondoggle has driven state officials already struggling to turn the state around to distraction, Lardaro said. "Our elected officials are spending too much time there," he said. "They need to be looking to the future and addressing our structural deficiencies."  REUTERS/David McNew Former MLB player Curt Schilling with a reporter at the Electronic Entertainment Expo, or E3, in Los Angeles on June 9, 2011. In 2012, the state charged Schilling, along with Wells Fargo, which helped complete the deal, with misleading officials about 38 Studios' financial health. Lardaro said there was now discussion about whether to continue to make interest payments. The suit has now dragged into its third year.  "There's a lot of people who genuinely believe that if Rhode Island defaulted on its moral obligations, that there would be no consequences ... and that was an eye-opener to me," Lardaro said. "I didn't expect to see that kind of naivete ... They need to be looking to the future and addressing structural deficiencies."  State GDP growth now stands at 1.4%, and even before the financial crisis it had fallen below 2%.  Population is also down 2% from its peak. For all this, Rhode Island may have put its worst troubles behind it. Lafakis observes that food manufacturer Greencore recently signed a 50-year lease at a former military-base-turned business park in Kingstown to build a 400-worker facility that could be expanded later. Electric Boat is also hiring 650 workers to make Virginia-class submarines. And toymaker Hasbro, the state's remaining pillar of manufacturing, continues to see steady growth. Given the debacle involving Schilling, who pitched for the Red Sox, it's ironic that Lafakis says it may take a Boston rally to permanently revive the state's fortunes: The city of Boston's tepid recovery is holding back Rhode Island's growth. Ocean Staters will have to hope Boston finance and tech firms start getting priced out of the city and begin to move south across the border, he says. "Historically, businesses have relocated at a faster pace when office rents are rising strongly in Boston," he writes. "However, job growth in Boston has been sluggish for the past two years, and before rents can take off, office space left vacant during the recession needs to be absorbed. Since Boston’s economy is expected to trail the nation’s until 2016, growth will be lackluster in RI." Until recently, betting on Red Sox Nation was always a bad move. But the state doesn't seem to have much choice these days. Quonset Development Corporation/FacebookThe Quonset Business Park is now home to one of the largest rooftop solar arrays in New England.     FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesPrivate equity queen Lynn Tilton, who runs Patriarch Partners, will be receiving a huge tennis award next month.  Tilton, an alumna of Yale and former women's varsity tennis player, will be awarded with the highest honor bestowed by the Intercollegiate Tennis Association–the 2014 ITA Achievement Award.  "Thrilled [and] grateful to receive this honor," Tilton Tweeted. "[Yale tennis] was a defining time in my life [and] foundation for success." According to the ITA, the award "pays tribute each year to past participants in the world of varsity tennis who have achieved excellence in their cho­sen careers. The spirit of the award honors both professional success and contributions to society, made either as a direct result of a career, or through humanitarian efforts." Tilton will be honored at a ceremony on September 5th at the Grand Hyatt Hotel in New York.  She will also be presented with "a distinctive, personally engraved, Rolex timepiece." (Let's hope it has some diamonds so she'll wear it. She already owns a MASSIVE bejeweled timepiece by Jacob the Jeweler that fits her "dust to diamonds" persona.) During high school, Tilton was a nationally-ranked tennis player. According to a profile in New York Magazine, she would practice every day after school until it got dark. She went on to play varsity tennis for three years at Yale. After college, she began her career on Wall Street. She worked at Goldman Sachs and Merrill Lynch before launching her own firm, Patriarch Partners. ITA  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe U.S.'s largest auto parts supplier Delphi Corp.'s headquarters is seen in Troy, Michigan October..(Reuters) - Auto parts supplier Delphi Automotive Plc  said it would "vigorously contest" pressure by U.S. tax authorities to file taxes in the United States as a domestic company, when its tax base is in the UK. The Internal Revenue Service told Delphi in June that it would be taxed as a U.S. company due to the sale of its assets to Delphi Holdings LLC after it emerged from bankruptcy in 2009, the company said in a regulatory filing on July 31. Delphi said it was reincorporated in the UK as a limited liability partnership, which allows it to save tax. The company said it had filed U.S. federal partnership tax returns between 2009 and 2011. "We will continue to prepare and file our financial statements on the basis that neither Delphi Automotive LLP nor Delphi Automotive Plc is a domestic corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes," the company said in the filing. Delphi, which operates out of Detroit, is one among several American companies locked in a battle with the IRS over the use of offshore tax shelters. The IRS contends that U.S.-based companies operating globally are manipulating tax laws. Under the U.S. tax code, domestic companies must pay tax on total global income, including income generated in other countries. The workaround for companies is to incorporate in those countries. Delphi has also been in the news in recent months because it supplied to General Motors Co  the defective ignition switches that were linked to at least 13 deaths. Delphi's shares closed at $67.31 on Thursday on the New York Stock Exchange.  (Reporting by Sagarika Jaisinghani and Sweta Singh in Bangalore; Editing by Kirti Pandey) FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsThere are people who like music. They turn on the radio, every now and then it grabs their attention at bars, and they sing along to the lyrics of whatever Top 40 song happens to be playing. A gentleman, however, does not like music. A gentleman knows music — what's good, what's bad, what just is ... and why. That said: Not all people grew up exposed to sounds beyond their stereo, so we put together a list of must-know albums that you may have missed while fist-pumping to Journey in your college dorm room. On this list you'll find everything from indie rock to hip-hop, dance music to funk. You'll find some No. 1 hits, but more importantly, you'll find music that has stood the test of time — or is definitely about to. FREE AppDownload
Unit labor costs (ULC) climbed by 0.6% in Q2. This is according to newly released data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics. This was below the 1.0% rate expected by economists. However, revisions to past data suggests wages are trending up at a much faster pace than previously though. Here's Barclays' Dean Maki: ...there were substantial revisions to data for previous quarters due to the incorporation of the recent annual revisions of the National Income and Product Accounts, and the revised data show slower recent growth in productivity and faster growth in unit labor costs. For example, the y/y growth rate of productivity in Q1 2014 was revised to 0.7% from 1.0%, while unit labor cost growth was revised to 2.6% from 1.2%. In Q2 2014, productivity increased 1.2% y/y, while unit labor costs rose 1.9%. This release also includes the broadest measure of compensation per hour growth, and this increased 3.1% y/y in Q2 2014. This suggests that compensation is growing faster than narrower measures such as average hourly earnings or the Employment Cost Index suggest. Overall, we view the rise in compensation and unit labor costs revealed in this report as a modestly positive influence on core inflation in coming months. Last week, traders blamed a 317-point plunge in the Dow on the Employment Cost Index rising faster than expected. "While average hourly earnings and the ECI are more timely measures, the ULC report not only accounts for productivity but also uses the most comprehensive range of compensation, including wages, benefits and other forms (such as stock options)," noted Bloomberg economist Josh Wright. "If average hourly earnings continue to diverge from ULC and ECI, look for the Fed (which showed last week that it still wants to lean dovish) to begin parsing the relationship between inflation and wage versus non-wage compensation." Rising wages are both a sign of inflation and labor-market tightness, two forces that put pressure on the Federal Reserve to tighten monetary policy sooner than later. The prospect that the Fed could tighten monetary policy sooner than expected is frequently blamed for causing market volatility. The idea is that if the Fed tightens, then it pulls liquidity out of the credit markets, which indirectly would pull liquidity out of the stock markets. "The Fed is waiting for wages to pick up before they stop throwing dollars and all their cents at the economy.  Well, wages are back," said Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi's Chris Rupkey. Pantheon Macroeconomics' Ian Sheperdson is a bit more sanguine than today's inflation worrywarts. But he nevertheless acknowledges that inflation risks are present. "Unit labor costs are up 1.9% y/y, which seems unthreatening, but inflation can still rise if, as surveys suggest, firms seek to pre-empt higher wage costs by raising prices now," said Shepherdson. Here's the chart via Shepherdson. Pantheon Macroeconomics FREE AppDownload
Billionaire John Paul DeJoria has a lot to juggle – overseeing an empire that includes Patrón, Paul Mitchell, and his new cellular service Rok Mobile. But he chooses to streamline all communications by not using email... ever. Produced by Justin Gmoser. Additional camera by Graham Flanagan. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
REUTERS/Bobby YipMcDonald's same-store sales fell 2.5% globally in July following a health scare with a food supplier that forced the burger chain to withdraw menu items in China.  The company said the scandal, in which a food supplier was found to be selling expired meat, has put its global sales forecast for 2014 "at risk." Some of the burger chain's restaurants in China were able to sell only soda and fries in the immediate aftermath of the scandal.  Analysts were expecting a same-store sales drop of 1.1% globally. The 2.5% decline is the worst monthly comparable sales drop since March 2003.  McDonald's has been struggling to boost sales amid growing competition from fast casual brands such as Chipotle and better-burger chains like Five Guys. Comparable sales fell 3.2% in the U.S. and 7.3% in China for the month of July.  The company is trying to execute a turnaround by simplifying its menu, speeding up customer service, and adding healthier options to the menu. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsThe recent economic news from Germany, which has the largest economy in Europe and is considered the “locomotive” for the Eurozone, has not been good. Factory orders in June declined  -3.3% from the May level, -2.4% from a year earlier. This followed a -1.6% drop in May.  The purchasing managers index for manufacturing has been flat for three months. Industrial production registered an advance of only +0.3%over the May rate, following declines in the previous three months. Retail sales and car sales were weak in April and May. The German 10 year Bund yield has declined to a record yield of 1.06%. German GDP growth probably ground to a halt in the second quarter, and may have declined, following a quarterly gain of +0.8% in the first quarter. While some pickup is likely in the coming months, the year 2014 growth is likely to fall below the previously expected +2.0%. In the medium term growth should ease to Germany’s full employment growth for Germany, about +1.5% per annum due to a declining labor force. Nevertheless, the German economy will likely grow faster than its Eurozone neighbors. Eurozone growth this year is likely to be only about +1.1% The tensions between Ukraine and Russia have been affecting business confidence, with the latest round of sanctions and counter sanctions adding to the perceived risks for trade. All Europe has been affected by these tensions as well as by the stalling of the German economy. The Italian economy, for example, appears to be slipping into recession. The French economy also has failed to establish sustainable growth. While the Spanish economy is seen as having been transformed by its structural reforms, industrial production in Spain fell by -0.8% month-to-month in June, following a -0.6% drop in May. The euro has slipped to a 9 month low. German equities have under-performed this year. The iShares MSCI Germany ETF, EWG, declined -8.25% over the past four weeks and is down 10.74% year-to-date, substantially below the year-to-date -6.03% decline in the iShares MSCI EMU ETF, EZU, which covers all the equity markets in the European Monetary Union.  In our International and Global portfolios we decided to close our Germany-specific positions which we had held since January of 2012. The fundamental and technical factors for German equities do not appear as attractive now as is the case for some other markets. In Europe, the UK economy continues to out-perform , with growth this year likely to be better than 3%, higher  than that of any other G7 country. We also have positions in the equity markets of Spain, Norway and Belgium. One factor having a negative effect this year on the US dollar returns from equity markets in the Eurozone has been a decline in euro-US$ exchange rate. It is now at a nine month low. We are maintaining a position in the WisdomTree Europe Hedged Equity Fund ETF, HEDJ. It includes a hedge against changes in the euro-US% rate. It also favors European firms paying higher dividends.  This ETF is down only -1.42% year-to-date , far less than the -6.03% decline for the EZU Eurozone ETF cited above. This article originally appeared at Cumberland Advisors.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
The point we make is that the correction began before this week.  Many of the European markets peaked in May and June.  The US S&amp;P 500 set a record high on July 24 and gapped lower the following day.  We had identified that gap as significant and anticipated the subsequent sell-off.  Although the 1895-1900 was the first objective,  there is potential toward 1850-1865.   There are two interesting equity stories that might investors may have missed.  First, the Swiss National Bank has lightened up on its largest US equity holdings.  Yes, the Swiss central bank is one of the few central banks from high income countries that have diversified some of their reserves (around 16%) into equities.  The Federal Reserve, Bank of England, European Central Bank and the Bank of Canada, for example do not have equity investments.  Surveys suggest about 1 in four central banks either have equity investments or will consider doing so.  The Swiss National Bank's SEC filing revealed that it sold about 0.3% of its stake in Apple in Q2 after reducing its holdings by 10% in Q1.  The SNB trimmed its Exxon and Johnson &amp; Johnson  holdings be 0.2% each after cutting its holdings by 8% and 5% respectively in Q1.   While these three companies are the Swiss National Bank's largest US equity holdings, it owns a piece of almost 2500 US companies.  It is a passive investor.  Its goal is to maintain the purchasing power of its reserves by replicating a broad based indices.   In this sense, the SNB is not acting much differently than some sovereign wealth funds, such as the Norway's petroleum fund.   The second equity story that many may have missed is  the activity of the Japan Post Insurance.   There has been much focus this year on the Government Pension Investment Fund (GPIF) and its asset allocation shift, which is anticipated to be toward stocks and away from fixed income.  Exactly when its will do so has been the subject of much speculation.   Japan Post Insurance was created in 2007 when the postal service was privatized.  It is the largest life insurer.  At the end of March 2008, its equity holdings were estimated at JPY1.8 trillion.  Due to market developments and allocation decisions, by March 2010, its equity holdings had fallen to about JPY100 bln.  Now, however, Japan Post is boosting its equity holdings again.   According a report in the Nikkei, Japan Post boosted its equity holdings by about JPY230 bln (~$2.2 bln).  This means that it accounted for an impressive 1/3 of the net shares purchased by the financial institutions in Q2.  Its domestic stock holdings stood at JPY650 bln at the end of June (JPY417 bln at the end of Q1).   Japan Post holds about 60% of its estimated JPY87 trillion assets in government bonds.  Domestic equities do not even account for 1% of its assets.  It is expected to continue to buy domestic stocks going forward, although not at the same pace as seen in Q2.  The Bank of Japan also owns equities, but perhaps not in reserves, like the SNB.  As part of its qualitative and quantitative easing program, it buys ETFs.  Some observers who expect the BOJ to take additional measures early in the second half of the fiscal year, which begins October 1, suspected increased ETF purchases could be announced.         Read more posts on Marc to Market » FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Euroinvestor.comOn Thursday, Russia announced a ban on food imports from the U.S.. the European Union, Canada, Australia, and Norway. The list of banned products included cattle meat, pork, fish, milk and dairy products, vegetables, fruit, and nuts. Some regions and economies are feeling the pinch more than others. Take Norway's Oslo Seafood Index, a stock market index consisting of 13 companies in Norway's seafood industry. It saw its biggest single-day drop on Thursday, and today it's down another 3.6%. It's down by around 9.6% this week. According to the WTO, Russia is the world's fifth largest food importer. So, while non-Russian food exporters face the risk of supply gluts, the exact opposite may be happening locally. Russia's food import ban was a retaliatory response against economic sanctions imposed by the U.S. and the E.U. "There is nothing good in sanctions and it wasn't an easy decision to take, but we had to do it," said Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA passersby walks in front of a help wanted sign at a McDonalds restaurant in the Brooklyn borough of New York(Reuters) - McDonald's Corp  reported lower-than-expected global sales at established restaurants in July after a food scare forced it to temporarily withdraw menu items such as Big Macs and Spicy McWings in China. McDonald's shares were down 0.8 percent in premarket trading. The company said worldwide sales at restaurants open at least 13 months fell 2.5 percent last month. Analysts on average had expected a 1 percent fall, according to research firm Consensus Metrix.  (Reporting by Sruthi Ramakrishnan, Devika Krishna Kumar in Bangalore; Editing by Joyjeet Das) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA trader works on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange in New YorkNEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stock index futures edged up on Friday, reversing sharp losses earlier that came on the back of a U.S. government authorization of air strikes in Iraq, which added to concerns about escalating conflicts in Ukraine and the Gaza Strip. After falling 15 points at its lowest overnight, S&amp;P 500 e-mini futures were up 4 points and fair value - a formula that evaluates pricing by taking into account interest rates, dividends and time to expiration on the contract - indicated a slightly higher open. Dow Jones industrial average e-mini futures &lt;1YMc1&gt; edged up 17 points and Nasdaq 100 e-mini futures rose 6 points.   (Reporting by Rodrigo Campos; Editing by Bernadette Baum) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/KhamA man transports paper replicas of various items to be sold for the Vu Lan Festival out of Dong Ho village, outside Hanoi August 7, 2014.Good morning! Here's what you need to know. 1.  Obama Authorizes Iraq Airstrikes. The Pentagon announced U.S. military aircraft have conducted strikes on ISIS artillery "used against Kurdish forces defending Erbil." White House says it is also running humanitarian sorties to come to the aid of the Yazidi groups trapped on a mountain in the north near the Syrian border. "A senior administration official described the airstrike authorization as 'narrow,' but outlined a number of broad contingencies in which they could be launched, including a possible threat to U.S. personnel in Baghdad from possible breaches in a major dam Islamist forces seized Thursday that could flood the Iraqi capital," the Washington Post reported. 2.  Record Junk Bond Outflows. High yield bond funds have posted $7.1 billion in outflows according to Lipper data, the largest outflows on record. The withdrawals come as investors grow increasingly leery of the "reach for yield" trade amid chatter that the Fed could raise rates sooner than expected. But it also means the value of other assets like stocks could soon also come down.  3.  China Exports Crush Expectations. China saw a record trade surplus in July, with exports climbing 14.5% YOY, the fastest pace in 15 months. That's double the 7.2% rate in June and roundly beating market expectations. "Some analysts attributed the export spurt to delayed shipments caused by recent volatility in the yuan which may not sustain," Reuters said. Imports fell 1.6%, leaving the country with a record trade surplus of $47.3 billion for the month, the wire said. 4.  Global Market Selloff On International Affairs Worries. U.S. futures are in the red, European markets are down by nearly 1%, and Asia closed sharply lower, with Japan's Nikkei plunging 2.9%, BI's Sam Ro notes. "Risk aversion rules: The Ukraine conflict shows no sign of being resolved (rather, there’s far too high a chance of escalation for comfort)," Societe Generale's Kit Juckes said in a note this morning. "Overnight, the US has approved limited airstrikes in Northern Iraq. The conflict on Gaza too, is in danger of re-escalation. Investors have plenty of reasons to take risk off the table and are doing so across the board." 5.  FICO Tweak Will Open Up Lending. The Wall Street Journal's Annamaria Andriotis reports credit score gatekeepers Fair Isaac Corp. will no longer include data reflecting failure to pay a bill in its tabulations if the individual paid or settled with a collection agency. It will also give less weight to unpaid medical bills owed to a collection agency. "The changes are expected to boost consumer lending, especially among borrowers shut out of the market or charged high interest rates because of their low scores," Andriotis writes. 'It expands banks' ability to make loans for people who might not have qualified and to offer a lower price [for others],' said Nessa Feddis, senior vice president of consumer protection and payments at the American Bankers Association, a trade group." 6.  Banks Could Flee Independent Scotland. BI's Jim Edwards explains why 9% of Scottish GDP would be at risk in the event of a successful referendum: "The immediate problem is that Scottish banks would be cut off from the Bank of England as a 'lender of last resort,' the national central bank that props up all other banks and provides a backstop against total collapse (as in the 2007-2008 crisis). Without credible central bank backing, U.K. bank regulators would likely require all banks to register in the U.K. and not Scotland, the report says. This, obviously, could lead to a vast financial exodus from Scotland. About 9% of Scotland's GDP is financial services, and finance is 15% of the country's exports — so the economic damage to to Scotland would be severe. 7.  Ebola Treatment Stock Up 25% Pre-Market. Tekmira shares are soaring after the company announced the FDA has lifted its "hold" designation on the Canadian drugmaker's ebola treatment. 8.  Malaysia Airlines Delisting. The country's sovereign wealth fund will buyout the tragically troubled company's outstanding shares. 9.  Data. At 8:30 we get productivity and costs data. Consensus is for productivity growth of 1.4%, compared with a decline of 3.2% prior, while unit labor costs are expected to have increased 1.6% compared with 5.7% prior. At 10 a.m. we get wholesale trade data. Consensus is for an increase in inventories of 0.7% compared with 0.5% prior.  10.  No Major Earnings Today.  Happy Friday.  FREE AppDownload
China state TVThe son of a British man imprisoned in China for investigating a former GlaxoSmithKline employee's links to the Chinese government has blamed the drug company for his father's plight, according to The Telegraph. Peter Humphrey, 58, a British private detective, and his wife, Yu Yingzeng, have languished in a Chinese jail for a year after he was charged with accessing private information on Chinese citizens illegally in the course of his investigation of Vivian Shi, GSK's former government relations manager, and her connections to the Chinese government. They were to go on trial in Shanghai on Monday. Humphrey was commissioned to investigate Shi after a secretly filmed video showing a GSK executive having sex with his girlfriend inside their private apartment was sent to senior GSK executives. The video was apparently a message targeting Mark Reilly, the British chief of GSK's China division, who was conducting his own internal company inquiry into whether Chinese employees of GSK had paid bribes to promote the company's products.But GSK did not tell Humphrey of the existence of the sex tape or the bribery allegations until weeks after he had started his investigation. The company also did not tell him about a series of detailed emails that a whistleblower had sent GSK executives alleging a bribery scheme. Instead, GSK asked Humphrey to find out what Shi's exact links were to China's government. Business Insider left three messages with GSK spokespersons requesting comment, but we did not immediately hear back. AP / Mark Reilly / LinkedInHarvey Humphrey, 19, told The Telegraph: "I do not feel different at all about China. I would not blame this on China. The cause is not the Chinese, it is GSK": But GSK allegedly denied to Mr. Humphrey and his wife that any of the allegations of bribery in the whistleblower's emails were true. 'They said the allegations were untrue,' said Harvey. 'Then two weeks later they said actually these things did happen. My father would have changed the conditions of the investigation if he had known. He would have investigated the allegations instead of this one person. I do not think as an investigator you would have taken the risk of investigating a whistleblower before you investigated the allegations.' ... 'When I saw my dad last Friday, I mentioned GSK once. I mentioned Reilly to him once. He expressed a very low opinion of Reilly.' GSK fired 20 Chinese staff after the whistleblower emails emerged. GSK says it investigated the claims but could not verify them specifically. "While some fraudulent behaviour relating to expense claims was found, we did not at that time find evidence to substantiate the specific allegations,” the company said at the time. FREE AppDownload
BloombergJapan's Nikkei fell 2.98% on Friday, leading the global market sell-off. This was the biggest single-day loss in in five months. While the Asian markets were open, the Bank of Japan reiterated its easy monetary policy framework, as expected. However, it cut its outlook for exports and industrial output. But we can't ignore the likely effects of geopolitical turmoil on the markets. The Japanese yen, which is widely considered to be a safe-haven asset class, climbed 0.3% against the dollar and 0.1% against the euro. A stronger yen makes Japanese goods less competitive in the global marketplace; in other words Japan's export goods are becoming more expensive. "Risk aversion rules," said Societe Generale's Kit Juckes. "The Ukraine conflict shows no sign of being resolved (rather, there’s far too high a chance of escalation for comfort). Overnight, the US has approved limited airstrikes in Northern Iraq. The conflict on Gaza too, is in danger of re-escalation. Investors have plenty of reasons to take risk off the table and are doing so across the board. Today, with a very thin economic calendar, at any rate, that is likely simply to continue." Juckes warns that the light economic calendar allows traders and investors to focus their attentions to geopolitics, which could make for an ugly day in the markets. "Even investors who want to buy into this weakness only really want to do so in September at the earliest, so the pool of dip-buyers to absorb any selling is tiny," he said. "It’s a cop-out recommendation, but go with the flow. Today’s winners are Bunds, Treasuries, the dollar and the yen." FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA huge euro logo is pictured past next to headquarters of ECB in FrankfurtFRANKFURT (Reuters) - Banks will return 4.15 billion euros ($5.56 billion) in long-term loans to the European Central Bank next week after the ECB started to charge for holding banks' excess cash overnight and promised more long-term loans. The amount that banks will repay on Aug. 13 is more than this week's crisis-loan repayments of 3.21 billion euros and exceeds the 3.0 billion forecast in a Reuters poll. [ECB/REFI] The ECB cut interest rates to record lows in June - the deposit rate is now below zero - and took several steps to boost lending to euro zone companies. It also pledged to do more if needed to fight off the risk of Japan-like deflation. The measures include a new four-year loan scheme, with which the ECB hopes will encourage banks to boost their lending. Banks continue to repay LTRO funds they took from the ECB in late 2011 and early 2012 as they are going through ECB health checks, which are in their final stages now with a Europe-wide bank stress test. On Friday, the ECB said four banks would repay 2.32 billion euros from the first LTROs on Aug. 13 and six banks would pay back 1.830 billion from the second LTRO.  (Reporting by Eva Taylor, editing by John Stonestreet) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersSecurity guards stand inside the Husi Food factory in ShanghaiHONG KONG (Reuters) - U.S. meat supplier OSI Group LLC [OSIGP.UL] is withdrawing products made in a Shanghai factory from undisclosed outlets in the wake of a food safety scare last month that hit fast food chains McDonald's and Yum Brands Inc's KFC. "While there have been no reported illnesses linked to any Shanghai Husi products, recovering this production is an important step in facilitating the investigations and rebuilding the respect and trust of our customers, the government and the people of China," OSI said in a statement late on Thursday. OSI didn't say how much of Shanghai Husi Food Co's production would be withdrawn, nor from which outlets. OSI was not immediately available for comment beyond its published statement, and the Shanghai Food and Drug Administration regulator did not respond to requests for comment. The scare was triggered by an undercover Chinese television report that showed workers at OSI's Shanghai Husi factory using expired meat and doctored food production dates. The factory was a supplier to McDonald's and Yum Brands, which have since said that the Husi scandal will have a material impact on earnings. Yum has cut ties with OSI globally. McDonald's China and Hong Kong are no longer sourcing any products from OSI companies in China, and McDonald's in Japan has moved its sourcing to Thailand. The scare, which has also involved restaurants in Hong Kong, Macau and Japan, is a sensitive issue for China, which has struggled to restore confidence in its $1 trillion food processing industry since six infants died in 2008 after drinking adulterated milk. The withdrawal is a precautionary measure and is different from a recall which indicates a safety concern, said a person with direct knowledge of the situation. The person did not have permission to speak and did so on condition of anonymity. Last month, OSI said an internal investigation had found practices at Shanghai Husi that were "absolutely inconsistent with our internal requirements". Workers at the plant also told Reuters hygiene standards at the factory were lacking, but production lines were temporarily cleaned up before inspectors arrived for pre-scheduled audits. OSI confirmed earlier this week that the Shanghai branch of China's Public Security Bureau has detained six Shanghai Husi employees. It said the Shanghai Food and Drug Administration and Shanghai Administration for Industry and Commerce had launched a joint investigation. (Reporting by Clare Baldwin; Editing by Kenneth Maxwell) FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsThere's not much on the economic calendar Friday to remind us that the economy is in decent shape. And that could be a bad thing. Markets are currently selling off around the world. U.S. futures are in the red, European markets are down by nearly 1%, and Asia closed sharply lower, with Japan's Nikkei plunging 2.9%. "Risk aversion rules: The Ukraine conflict shows no sign of being resolved (rather, there’s far too high a chance of escalation for comfort)," Societe Generale's Kit Juckes said. "Overnight, the U.S. has approved limited airstrikes in Northern Iraq. The conflict on Gaza too, is in danger of re-escalation. Investors have plenty of reasons to take risk off the table and are doing so across the board." None of these geopolitical concerns are coming out of nowhere. Indeed, they've been brewing for much of the year, even as the S&amp;P 500 touched its all-time high of 1,991 on July 24. However, a slew of economic data during much of the summer has had investors and traders distracted. This week, it's been particularly quiet on the economic calendar, which has allowed everyone to focus on the geopolitical turmoil. The S&amp;P is down 1% in the past four days. And those conditions are unlikely to change Friday. "Today, with a very thin economic calendar, at any rate, [the selling] is likely simply to continue," Juckes said. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersU.S. Senator Levin departs following the weekly Democratic caucus policy luncheon at the U.S. Capitol in WashingtonWASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. Senator Carl Levin is preparing a last push to bring Wall Street's big commodity traders to heel during his final months in office, wrapping up a nearly two year-long probe that could potentially reveal abuses in energy and metals markets. Levin's investigators have met with representatives from Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase in recent weeks, according to sources familiar with the matter. Executives from those companies may appear at a hearing as early as September, during which Levin's Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations would present the findings of the probe, the sources said. Spokesmen for Goldman and JPMorgan declined to comment. Specifically, Senate investigators have explored whether Wall Street has abused its commodities holdings at the expense of clients, consumers, the environment or the health of the market, according to the people familiar with the probe. The probe's findings and the possible hearing will add to the scrutiny Wall Street firms have already faced from the Federal Reserve and from other lawmakers over whether it is appropriate for banks to maintain vast holdings in metals warehouses and other physical commodities businesses. Companies including MillerCoors LLC and The Coca-Cola Co, for example, have accused warehouses and their owners of distorting supplies, inflating the prices of aluminum, and costing consumers billions of extra dollars annually. Wall Street has found it lucrative to have a hand in both the trading and delivery of commodities but some investment banks have retreated from parts of the businesses as they have become the focus of lawsuits, regulatory scrutiny and public outrage. JPMorgan has sold its physical trading business and Goldman is selling its metals storage company but the banks have not dropped all such holdings. Banks' commodities businesses is one of the final targets for Levin, who is retiring at the end of this year after serving on the powerful investigations panel for around 15 years. Levin said in an interview on Thursday that he expects to conclude his work on Wall Street and commodity investments before he departs. "We are looking at the physical commodities issue. There may be one other (issue to investigate), but I don't want to say what it might be," said Levin, a Michigan Democrat. He declined to elaborate. Levin's panel began examining the commodities market in late 2012, after several months of growing complaints from metals users and following a Reuters story that highlighted a behind-the-scenes struggle between the banks and the Fed over commodity trading. A front-page New York Times story and a Senate Banking subcommittee hearing in mid-2013 added to the pressure, and the Fed said early this year that it was likely to push forward with new measures to limit banks' involvement in the raw materials supply chain. While the Fed has examined whether Wall Street's broad ownership of mines, wells or other physical assets could present a risk to a bank's solvency, Levin said his questions go deeper. "We are looking at many aspects of physical commodities... It is broader than safety and soundness," Levin said, using a regulatory term for bank stability. The Senate returns from summer recess in early September and sources said a hearing on the commodity issue is likely in the second or third week of that month. Levin took control of the oversight panel for the second time in 2007 and has often excoriated Wall Street executives about their business tactics, use of tax loopholes and other perceived abuses. Over four, politically-charged hearings in April 2010, Levin summoned regulators and Wall Street executives to answer for their behavior during the global financial crisis. In March 2013, he grilled executives from JPMorgan about trades that led to $6.2 billion losses known as the "London whale" trades. Such hearings can shine an important spotlight on regulatory failings and wrongdoing, Levin said. (Additional reporting by Douwe Miedema David Lawder in Washington; Editing by Karey Van Hall and Frances Kerry) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yuya ShinoAn employee of Japanese toymaker CCP Co. looks at the company's "NANO-FALCON", which is the world's smallest infrared remote-controlled helicopter, at the International Toy Show in Tokyo June 13, 2013. TOKYO (Reuters) - The Bank of Japan maintained its view the world's third-largest economy is recovering but offered a bleaker take on exports and output, nodding to a recent batch of soft data that dashed hopes overseas shipments will pick up in time to offset the pain from a sales tax hike in April. BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda remained upbeat about the outlook for the economy, underscoring the central bank's conviction that no fresh stimulus is required even though data next week is expected to show the biggest contraction in economic activity since the global financial crisis.     "Japan's economy is likely to continue recovering moderately with the effect (of an April sales tax increase) seen gradually subsiding," Kuroda told a news conference. "Exports and output have been weakening," he said. "But a positive economic cycle remains in place as job and income conditions steadily improve." The BOJ downgraded its assessment of exports - which it has been counting on to support the economy as the tax hike crimps consumption. "Exports have shown some weakness," the bank said, revising last month's assessment they were moving sideways. The central bank also acknowledged "some weakness" in industrial output. "The BOJ does not need to change its expectations that inflation will accelerate again due to strong domestic demand," said Shuji Tonouchi, senior fixed income strategist at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities. "However, risks from overseas have risen, and this puts the BOJ in a more uncomfortable position." As widely expected, the BOJ maintained its policy framework, under which it has pledged to increase base money by 60-70 trillion yen ($580-690 billion) per year through aggressive asset purchases to reflate the moribund economy and drive inflation toward 2 percent sometime next year. Exports unexpectedly fell in June for a second straight month and output plunged at the fastest pace since the March 2011 earthquake, casting doubt on the BOJ's view the economy will fairly quickly ride out the pain from the April tax hike. A private factory survey showed new export orders grew in July for the first time in four months, although only modestly. Adding to the gloom, Japan's Nikkei share average suffered its biggest fall in five months on Friday on worries that escalating tensions between Russia and the West could hurt global growth.              GROWTH DOUBTSWhile the BOJ already expects Japan's economy to shrink in the second quarter due to the tax hike effect, the contraction may prove to be bigger - and the rebound more modest - than projected given the delay in an export pick-up and weak household spending, analysts say. Some in the nine-member board, such as Koji Ishida, are more cautious about the outlook than Kuroda. Ishida warned last month that structural issues may further delay an export rebound. Heightening worries for policymakers, wages were soft in June with only a modest rise seen in bonuses and regular pay despite Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's calls for companies to raise base salaries so consumers can keep spending. The closely-watched April-June gross domestic product data, due out next week, is expected to show Japan's economy shrank an annualized 7.1 percent due to the tax hike pain, according to a Reuters poll, the biggest contraction since the first quarter of 2009 amid the doldrums of the global financial crisis. Some private-sector analysts say such a big contraction in the second-quarter may mean economic growth in the current business year will far undershoot the BOJ's current projection of an 1.0 percent increase. "We already know the April-June contraction will be quite big. What's more worrying is the overall weakness in June data, which suggests the third-quarter rebound may be moderate," said Hideo Hayakawa, a former top BOJ top economist and now senior executive fellow of private think tank Fujitsu Research Institute. "But I don't think Kuroda minds even if growth remains subdued, as long as inflation keeps accelerating," he said. However, the weak GDP data, as well as sluggish wage growth, could also heighten private economists' scepticism that the BOJ will be able to meet its target of pushing inflation to 2 percent sometime next year without further stimulus.(1 US dollar = 102.1900 Japanese yen)(This story refiles to add the governor's name in the second paragraph)              (Additional reporting by Tetsushi Kajimoto and Stanley White; Editing by Kim Coghill, Shri Navaratnam and William Mallard) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTrucks drive past piles of shipping containers at the Qingdao port in QingdaoBEIJING (Reuters) - China's buoyant exports pushed its trade surplus to a record in July, fuelling optimism global demand will help counter pressure on the domestic economy from a weakening property sector. While manufacturing appears to have picked up in the world's second-largest economy, unexpected weakness in the services sector this week has renewed concerns about the growth outlook. The weak housing market remains China's biggest risk, posing a drag on the broader economy and investor confidence. Recovering global demand may not be enough to bolster a weak internal economy weighed by a cooling property sector and Beijing's anti-corruption drive, suggesting policy support will likely continue to keep economic growth on track, analysts say. Exports in July jumped 14.5 percent from a year earlier - the fastest pace in 15 months, the General Administration of Customs said on Friday, doubling from 7.2 percent in June and roundly beating market expectations. Exports were stronger than expected even after pricing in inflated export data in early 2013, when firms falsified invoices to skirt capital curbs.  Some analysts attributed the export spurt to delayed shipments caused by recent volatility in the yuan which may not sustain. Meanwhile, imports fell 1.6 percent versus a rise of 5.5 percent in June, leaving the country with a record trade surplus of $47.3 billion for the month.  "The (export) data indicates very strong demand externally and less need for a weak currency," said Dariusz Kowalczyk, senior economist at Credit Agricole CIB in Hong Kong. "However, imports contracted 1.6 percent year-on-year, indicating soft domestic demand and a downward pressure on growth. Policymakers are likely to do more to support the domestic economy." A Reuters poll had predicted a 7.5 percent rise in exports, a 3 percent increase in imports and a trade surplus of $27 billion.  Financial markets firmed on the data with the Shanghai Composite Index rebounding. It rose 0.25 percent by midday from its intraday low, when it was down 0.32 percent.  STRONG EXPORTS, WEAK IMPORTS After a weak start this year, China's exports have shown signs of improvement helped by stronger global growth as well as supportive domestic policies and the effects of a weaker yuan. Exports to the United States, China's top export destination, rose 12.3 percent in June, quickening from a rise of 7.5 percent in June, while those to the European Union, the second-biggest market, grew 17 percent, compared with 13.1 percent in June. Exports to ASEAN countries rose 11.9 percent in July, accelerating from 9.7 percent in June, the customs data showed. Customs spokesman Zheng Yuesheng told state television that China exports are likely to stay strong in the coming months. "The external demand is improving as a recovery in major  developed countries underpins the global economy," he said. Imports from China's largest source for resources, Australia, dropped 5.7 percent, partly due to softer commodity prices but the fall adds to questions over the health of domestic demand. Some analysts attributed weak imports to the crackdown on  commodity financing following the Qingdao port fraud probe.  Combined exports and imports grew 2 percent in the first seven months from a year earlier, trailing far behind the government's full-year target of 7.5 percent. The record trade surplus and pressure from capital inflows were seen renewing pressure on the yuan. The currency is poised for its third consecutive day of gains as the central bank signaled it was comfortable with stronger levels as the economy was improving. "With Chinese economic activity improving, we believe that there is scope for RMB to further appreciate, driven by conversion of onshore FX deposits and increased foreign portfolio inflows," analysts at ANZ said in a note.  That could create a fresh headache for China's central bank, which intervened to weaken the currency earlier this year when it punished speculators betting on one-way yuan appreciation. Chinese leaders have pledged to maintain pro-growth policies to help achieve the annual growth target of 7.5 percent.     The government unveiled a burst of "targeted" policy stimulus since April, including cutting reserve requirements for some banks, hastening construction of railways and public housing and allowing local governments to loosen property curbs. The Politburo, a top decision-making body of the ruling Communist Party, said last month that China must maintain a "certain speed" in its development over the long term to help resolve problems in the economy The government is due to release inflation data on Saturday, and industrial output, retail sales and fixed-asset investment on Aug. 13. New loan and money supply data will be issued between Aug. 10-15.              (Reporting by China economics team; Editing by Jacqueline Wong) FREE AppDownload
Banks registered in Scotland would likely flee to relocate themselves in the U.K. if the Scottish vote for independence in their referendum on Sept. 18, according to a report from the National Institute of Social and Economic Research. The report discusses what Scotland's currency and central banking options would be in the event of independence. The country faces a bleak choice of continuing to use the British pound, which it would not control; waiting to join the Euro, which could take years; or printing its own new currency. The immediate problem is that Scottish banks would be cut off from the Bank of England as a "lender of last resort," the national central bank that props up all other banks and provides a backstop against total collapse (as in the 2007-2008 crisis). Without credible central bank backing, U.K. bank regulators would likely require all banks to register in the U.K. and not Scotland, the report says. This, obviously, could lead to a vast financial exodus from Scotland. About 9% of Scotland's GDP is financial services, and finance is 15% of the country's exports — so the economic damage to to Scotland would be severe. Scotland would continue to have banks, of course — but they would be run as mere branches of British banks based south of the border. The summary to the report says: Without a credible solution to the lender of last resort, the Prudential Regulatory Authority is likely to require systemically important banks using sterling to be domiciled in the UK. Shareholders, customers and rating agencies are also all likely to prefer systemically important banks to be located in the UK. Exports of financial services accounts for 15% of total Scottish exports (or almost 9% of GDP), and most of which go to the rest of the UK. The prospects for the financial sector matter for the balance of payments and for Scotland's prosperity. Finding a credible solution to the lender of last resort problem is important if Scotland ends up with dollarization. Part of the solution may require Scotland to have its own currency instead. Sky NewsAlex SalmondThe report argues that there may be one viable solution: For Scotland to create its own new currency backed by a new central bank of Scotland. Unfortunately, Scottish National Party leader Alex Salmond has argued for the opposite — keeping the pound. In that scenario, Scotland as a financial center would essentially be doomed, and all "Scottish" banks would emigrate and become British banks with foreign branches in Scotland. And Scotland doesn't have the financial muscle to back its own banks, one of the reports' authors told the Financial Times. It's “a pretty intractable problem,” Angus Armstrong said. Here are a couple of highlights from the body of the report: Without a credible solution to the lender of last resort, the Prudential Regulatory Authority is likely to require systemically important banks using sterling to be domiciled in the UK. Shareholders, customers and rating agencies are also all likely to prefer systemically important banks to be located in the UK. If Scotland chooses dollarization as its Plan B (because the UK Government refuses to enter into a formal currency union) it would have little scope to offer lender of last resort facilities to its banking sector. While Scottish banks could continue to have access to the Bank of England's liquidity operations under the Sterling Monetary Framework, it is doubtful that a UK Chancellor would be expected to provide emergency liquidity assistance to a non - UK institution. ... Part of the solution to Scotland’s lender of last resort problem may be to have its own currency and a functioning central bank. FREE AppDownload
NASAOn August 6 at 22:30 UTC (6:30 p.m. EDT) NASA's Aqua satellite passed over Hurricanes Iselle and Julio approaching Hawaii. This image was created using three satellite passes.Good morning! Here's what people will be chatting about on Friday. 1. President Barack Obama ordered limited airstrikes into Iraq Thursday night. The aim is "to protect our American personnel and a humanitarian effort to help save thousands of Iraqi civilians who are trapped on a mountain without food and water and facing almost certain death," Obama said in a statement from the White House. 2. The 72-hour ceasefire between Israel and Hamas expired Friday morning and there are already reports of rockets being fired from Hamas. This comes after opposing sides failed to reach an agreement during talks brokered by Egypt. According to the Guardian: "Israeli officials said Hamas had rejected their offer to extend the ceasefire. Hamas did not confirm or deny the claim."  3. It's unclear whether the experimental drug used to treat two U.S. Ebola patients is even effective. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention warns people not to be too optimistic. "We don't know if [the drugs] work and we can't have them in significant numbers," Dr. Tom Frieden, director of the CDC, told a House subcommittee hearing, the Los Angeles Times reported. "I don't want any false hopes out there." 4. Following Russia's ban of food ports from the U.S., E.U., and other countries, European Central Bank president Mario Draghi warned that increasing tensions and sanctions against Russia "remained a risk to the fragile eurozone recovery and could have hit economy already," the Guardian writes.   5. China posted a record trade surplus in July. "Exports in July jumped 14.5 percent from a year earlier — the fastest pace in 15 months, the General Administration of Customs said on Friday, doubling from 7.2 percent in June and roundly beating market expectations," Reuters said. Exports were stronger than expected even after pricing in inflated export data in early 2013, when firms falsified invoices to skirt capital curbs. 6. Australia's Foreign Minister Julie Bishop warned of stronger sanctions against Russia if "Moscow fails to accept responsibility for downed Malaysia Airlines flight MH17," she said, according to The Sydney Morning Herald. The broader sanctions might include banning the sale of uranium.7. Hawaii is bracing for the approach of Hurricanes Iselle, which could become the "first hurricane or tropical storm to hit the island chain in 22 years," ABC News said.  8. Alex Salmond, the first minister arguing for the independence of Scotland, said that an independent Scotland "would use sterling even if a formal sterling zone were rejected by the UK government," the Guardian said. Salmond added: "It's Scotland's pound and we are keeping it." 9. Khazanah Nasional, the majority stakeholder in Malaysia Airlines, wants to remove the carrier from the stock exchange and make it fully state-owned. The airline has been financially crippled by two major disasters in the last year — Flight 370 disappeared in March and Flight 17 was shot down over Ukraine in June,  killing everyone on board. 10. Researchers have developed self-folding robots that shift shape and crawl without the help of humans. The origami-inspired robots have a huge number of design applications from folding home structures to space satellites.   And finally... A toddler caused a brief security lockdown near the White House when she squeezed through the main gates. "Secret Service agents regularly close off the area due to suspicious packages near the White House, but pint-sized intruders are far less common," Reuters notes.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersPedestrians are reflected on an electronic board showing the graph of the recent fluctuations of the exchange rates between the Japanese yen against the euro, outside a brokerage in TokyoTOKYO (Reuters) - Asian shares tumbled on Friday as investors sought out safe-haven assets on growing fears that conflicts in Ukraine and the Middle East could sap global growth, extending losses after U.S. President Obama authorized air strikes in Iraq. Better-than-expected export growth from China pulled markets off their lows, but failed to offset all the gloom, which was expected to cast a long shadow over European shares. Financial spreadbetters see Britain's FTSE 100 opening 45 points lower, or down 0.7 percent; Germany's DAX opening 92 points lower, or down 1 percent; and France's CAC 40 shedding 43 points at the open, or down 1 percent. "It seems only a short time ago that traders were talking corrections, but now it seems only a matter of time before we see technical bear markets" in some European bourses, " IG chief market strategist Chris Weston wrote in a note to clients. Obama said in an address that he authorized targeted strikes to protect the besieged Yazidi minority and U.S. personnel in Iraq, after the Iraqi government requested help. U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and the United Nations Security Council on Thursday called for the international community to help Iraq's government and people as the country struggles against a sweeping advance by Islamist militants. MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan was off its lows but was still down about 0.9 percent, on track for a weekly loss of around 1.6 percent. Japan's Nikkei stock average plunged about 3 percent, giving up the 15,000 level and shedding 4.8 percent for the week. U.S. crude, meanwhile, soared more than a $1 to $98.45 a barrel, after closing at its the weakest level since February on Wednesday. It was last up about 0.6 percent at $97.96, while Brent crude rose 0.9 percent to $106.39 a barrel. "In the big scheme of things the moves feel overdone, but that's because volatility has been so low recently. Everyone said the volatility couldn't stay so low, that something would change it. This seems to be the event," said Richard Grace, chief currency and rates strategist at Commonwealth Bank of Australia. S&amp;P 500 e-mini futures slipped 0.6 percent, which could portend a downbeat day ahead on Wall Street. On Thursday, U.S. shares ended down, erasing early gains marked on data showing the number of Americans filing new claims for unemployment benefits unexpectedly fell last week. [.N] But markets edged away from their session lows after China reported that its exports in July jumped 14.5 percent from a year earlier, while imports fell 1.6 percent, leaving the country with a trade surplus of $47.3 billion for the month. That beat market expectations of a 7.5 percent rise in exports, a 3 percent increase in imports and a trade surplus of $27 billion. Risk-averse investors continued to seek the safety of fixed-income assets, sending U.S. yields to fresh 14-month lows as bond prices rose. The yield on 10-year Treasuries stood at 2.377 percent, down from the U.S. close of 2.424 percent, after dropping as low as 2.375 percent. The yield on German Bunds slid to a record low of 1.069 percent overnight, on heightened fears that Ukraine's conflict with pro-Russian rebels will crimp euro zone growth. The European Central Bank said after its monthly policy-setting meeting on Thursday that it stands ready to take further easing steps to stave off deflation, and warned that the Ukraine crisis poses a serious risk. Russia said on Wednesday it will ban all U.S. food imports and all European fruit and vegetables, in retaliation for Western sanctions imposed for Moscow's support of the Ukraine separatists. A silver lining of the tensions was a weakening effect on Europe's currency, in line with the ECB's hopes. The euro stood close to nine-month lows against the greenback at $1.3361, steady on the day and not far from this week's low of $1.3333 touched on Wednesday. The dollar slumped about 0.3 percent against the yen to 101.75, after the Bank of Japan kept monetary policy steady on Friday and offered a bleaker view on exports and output after recent weak data cast doubts over its optimistic view that the economy is steadily recovering. Japan's current account swung to a deficit in June for the first time in five months, government data showed on Friday, due to a decline in earnings on overseas investments. "With the economic impact of the Ukrainian conflict now drawing more attention and Treasury yields declining, downward bias for the dollar is building," said Masafumi Yamamoto, market strategist at Praevidentia Strategy in Tokyo. The Australian dollar slipped to a two-month low after the Reserve Bank of Australia stuck to its stance of keeping interest rates at a record low for some time yet. The Aussie was down 0.2 percent at $0.9247 after falling to $0.9236, its lowest since early June. Spot gold hit $1,318.80 an ounce, its highest since July 18, and was last up 0.4 percent on the day at $1,319.46. (Additional reporting by Wayne Cole in Sydney and Shinichi Saoshiro in Tokyo; Editing by Eric Meijer) FREE AppDownload
KUALA LUMPUR (Reuters) - Malaysia's state investment fund will pay 1.4 billion ringgit($435.73 million) to take troubled Malaysian Airline System (MAS) private, the airline said on Friday, paving the way for a "complete overhaul" of its loss-making operations following two devastating jetliner disasters this year. Khazanah Nasional [KHAZA.UL] will offer 27 sen for each share in the company it does not own, amounting to 1.38 billion ringgit, a 12.5 percent premium to the closing share price on Thursday, MAS said in a statement after suspending its shares. The move had been expected after the national carrier lost two airplanes this year, sparking a slump in bookings that has hurt its already struggling operations amid intense competition from budget Asian airlines. Khazanah, which owns 69.37 percent of MAS, said it would will take six to 12 months to complete its restructuring of MAS after it has secured approval from shareholders. It said it would give more details at the end of August. The airline and its key stakeholders are in talks with banks for a strategic overhaul that could include the partial sale of its engineering unit and an upgrade of its ageing fleet, sources involved in the discussions have told Reuters. Khazanah said it will need cooperation from all parties to undertake the restructuring, covering the airline's operations, business model, finances, staff and the regulatory environment. "Nothing less will be required in order to revive our national airline to be profitable as a commercial entity, and to service its function as a critical national development entity," it said in a statement. The carrier warned in May of a "dramatic impact" on passenger traffic from the loss of Flight MH370, which disappeared on March 8 with 239 passengers and crew. Its troubles deepened dramatically on July 17, when another jet, Flight MH17, was shot down over Ukraine, killing all 298 people on board. The incident sped up efforts for the government to restructure the airline, sources said. "This is the sensible way forward given that massive surgery is required," said Christopher Wong, a senior investment manager at Aberdeen Asset Management Asia. MAS, which has reported losses for the past three years, has been squeezed by nimbler rivals such as AirAsia Bhd on short-haul routes, and Gulf carriers and AirAsia X in the medium and long-haul market. Hampered by strong trade union resistance to any restructuring, MAS has struggled to cut costs and improve productivity. (1 US dollar = 3.2130 Malaysian ringgit) (Reporting by Al-Zaquan Amer Hamzah, Trinna Leong, Yantoultra Ngui; Additional reporting by Saeed Azhar; Writing by Stuart Grudgings; Editing by Matt Driskill) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA BMW Vision Future Luxury concept car is displayed at Auto China 2014 in BeijingSHANGHAI (Reuters) - German luxury carmaker BMW said on Friday that it would cut the prices of more than 2,000 spare parts sold in China by 20 percent on average in response to the concerns expressed by the country's anti-monopoly watchdog. BMW is adjusting prices following the National Development and Reform Commission's concerns about the country's vehicle and spare parts market, the company said in an e-mailed statement. The price cut will take effect on Aug. 11.   (Reporting by Samuel Shen and Kazunori Takada; Editing by Ryan Woo) FREE AppDownload
