REUTERS/Chip EastPeople stand next to windows, above an animated sign, at the Lehman Brothers headquarters in New York September 16, 2008.The sudden military escalation in Ukraine in recent days has, according to JPMorgan's Alex Kantarovich, reduced the earlier hopes that the high level meeting in Minsk on 26 August would help to defuse the conflict. As Kantarovich warns, the markets are now bracing for the US/EU responses. In the worst case scenario, now appearing more likely, severe pressure on stocks may extend. As he concludes, "we believe that with the significant deterioration in the Ukrainian situation, markets may treat this as a Lehman-style shock." Via JPMorgan Cazenove, Lehman moment. We believe that with the significant deterioration in the Ukrainian situation, markets may treat this as a Lehman-style shock. We note there are substantial fundamental differences between the current situation and the 2008/09 crisis; the oil price is now holding up relatively well and the economic contraction may not be that deep. On the other hand, for traded stocks, the challenges and risks to investability presented by sanctions could be practically open-ended. We demonstrate that revisiting the post-Lehman lows would imply downside of 50% from an index perspective, and ~40% from the forward P/E perspective (Fig. 1 and 2). JPM via Zero Hedge Poor visibility. With several false dawns since the start of the conflict, the markets may no longer assume a quick and easy resolution of the conflict and ‘worse before better’ seems a likely sequence to us; we thus recommend reducing exposure to Russia and differentiating carefully among the sectors and names. Exposure and defenses. We see Financials as particularly badly exposed - both from the sanctions perspective and from the macro perspective. We also highlight the acute pressure on economically sensitive consumers, exposed to the escalating trade wars. We again stress that the best defensive trade comprises exporters with no unwanted political affiliations as these also benefit fundamentally from the weaker ruble. The sell-off on 28 August provides a good illustration of the phenomenon (Fig. 3 and 4). JPM via Zero Hedge *  *  *So Buy US Stocks ... because nothing says 'global growth' like a contagious collapse in a major nations markets... FREE AppDownload
EIAWe all complain about gas prices. But some people pay significantly higher prices than others. The U.S. Energy Information Adminstration released a map that details the price of gasoline in every U.S. county, on Friday. For folks living in the south, southeast, and New Jersey — you're in luck because gas prices are on the lower end. The Gulf Coast has the lowest prices at $3.24/gal. On the other hand, west coasters, Alaskans, and Hawaiians have the highest gas prices in the nation. The highest prices are on the west coast at $3.83/gal. Gulf coast prices are routinely lower than average prices because of the area's proximity to half the nation's refining capacity, according to the EIA. The Gulf Coast doesn't need to worry too much about fuel transport costs. This Labor Day gasoline prices are at their lowest prices since 2010. Average prices are about $0.25/gal lower than they were at the end of June. U.S. Energy Information Administration, Gasoline and Diesel Fuel Update And some additional good news: the EIA predicts that the average retail price of gasoline in the U.S. will "modestly" decline through December — eventually reaching a monthly average low of $3.30/gal. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA staff checks a car parked outside of Toyota Motor Corp's showroom in TokyoDETROIT (Reuters) - U.S. auto industry sales in August will be about even with a year ago, not quite ending the summer in a sizzling fashion but still warm enough to continue the recovery from a recession now five years in the rear-view mirror. Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters expect monthly sales of about 1.5 million new vehicles when automakers report them on Wednesday, with a seasonally adjusted annualized sales rate of 16.6 million. It should be the sixth straight month showing an annualized rate above 16 million, a level reached only twice in 2013. Auto sales are a closely watched indicator of consumer demand, particularly for big-ticket items, and the industry accounts for roughly one-fifth of all U.S. retail spending. While sales would be flat with last August, the annualized rate for the month would be up from 16.1 million a year ago because there was one less selling day this year. Profit-eroding incentives remained high in August, as dealers trimmed prices to help clear lots and make way for 2015 models. Industry research firm Kelley Blue Book said incentives, including rebates and cash-back offers, were on track to end the month between $2,700 to $3,000 per vehicle. The biggest discounts were on mid-size sedans, which are staying on dealer lots more than 80 days before being sold, compared to 47 days for small crossover sport utility vehicles, Kelley Blue Book said. While auto sales have strengthened to nearly pre-recession levels, there is concern among some analysts that longer-term loans and increased lending to subprime buyers may be inflating sales. Some new vehicles are being sold with 7-year loans, which could cause owners to hold onto their cars longer, because equity is not established until late in the pay-off cycle. Chrysler Group LLC, a unit of Fiat SpA &lt;fia.mi&gt;, and Nissan Motor Co &lt;7201.T&gt; once again gained market share in August to the detriment of sales leaders General Motors Co &lt;gm.n&gt;, Ford Motor Co &lt;f.n&gt; and Toyota Motor Corp &lt;7203.T&gt;, according to analysts. Eight analysts polled by Reuters expect Chrysler to show a monthly sales gain of 13.5 percent, while Nissan is seen ending August up 2.4 percent. Among major automakers, the two are expected to be the only winners. Michelle Krebs, an analyst with Kelley Blue Book, expects Chrysler will only enjoy a few more months of double-digit gains. This year's gains by Chrysler have been helped by the fact that sales of Jeep Cherokee SUVs were compared to low sales of a model it replaced in late 2013, the Jeep Liberty. The Reuters poll showed monthly sales declines for GM, down 1.2 percent, Ford, down 1.4 percent, Toyota, down 2.3 percent and Honda Motor Co &lt;7267.T&gt; off 7.9 percent. Hyundai Motor Co &lt;005380.KS&gt; and its affiliate Kia Motors Corp &lt;000270.KS&gt; are seen down a combined 0.8 percent.   (Additional reporting by Ben Klayman in Detroit; Editing by Tom Brown) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersArgentina's Economy Minister Kicillof speaks next to Foreign Minister Timerman during a news conference in Buenos AiresNEW YORK (Reuters) - A U.S. judge overseeing litigation by Argentina and creditors who did not participate in the country's past debt restructurings on Friday scheduled a hearing to assess whether Citigroup Inc  should be forced to comply with a subpoena. U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa in New York scheduled a hearing for Sept. 10 at 2:30 p.m. EDT following a request by a lawyer for Elliott Management's NML Capital Ltd, a creditor suing over Argentine bonds that have been in default since 2002.  (Reporting by Nate Raymond in New York; Editing by Meredith Mazzilli) FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Rosana PradaIrrational investment habits lead to lower returns In an effort to show that even good luck can be planned in advance, the Beijing Olympics kicked off at 8.08pm on August 8th 2008, invoking the supposedly auspicious properties of the number eight. In Chinese, the word "eight" sounds similar to "prosperity". Conversely, "four" sounds quite like "death", and so is believed to bring misfortune. (Many Chinese buildings jump straight from the third to the fifth floor, just as some Western ones omit a 13th floor.) Such superstitions are usually regarded as harmless cultural quirks. They turn out to be very costly, however, if they are used as investment principles. A new paper* looks at how these beliefs affect financial markets by examining limit orders (an offer to trade shares at a given price) in the Taiwanese stock market. The authors measured the strength of traders' superstitions by the regularity with which they chose prices ending in eight, and how strenuously they avoided the number four. Institutional investors and foreigners were generally unbiased in this regard, with no numerical pattern in their prices. Local individuals, however, were more than 50% more likely to place an order ending in an eight than in a four. Such irrationality costs money: the daily returns of the most superstitious quintile of investors were 0.03% lower than the least superstitious on trades ending in an eight. That equates to an annual shortfall of--by coincidence--8.8% a year, according to T he Economist's calculations. Avoiding four was less costly, but still diminished returns by around 2% a year. The cost of the bias extended beyond trades involving the numbers four and eight. An increase in superstitious beliefs of one standard deviation led to a 0.02% decrease in daily returns (4% over the course of the year, another coincidence). This suggests that superstitious beliefs are associated with other biases which lower profits for traders more broadly. Some of these are also numerical, such as investors' preference for round numbers. The paper also alludes to superstitious traders having a "general cognitive disability in financial decision making", a diplomatic way of saying they are nitwits. Small investors are known to succumb to overconfidence, spurious extrapolation and a preference for the familiar. These biases make them an easy target for algorithmic traders, or "quants", who exploit such predictable behaviour. Fortunately for Taiwanese day-traders, the researchers find that digit prejudice abates over time. Perhaps tired of losing money, investors tend to ditch their superstitions as they gain experience. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
AP/LM OteroAmerican Airlines and Orbitz have settled their disagreements. In a statement on Friday, American Airlines and Orbitz announced that they have reached an agreement, with American Airlines flights available on Orbitz sites effective immediately. US Airways flights, which were set to be pulled from Orbitz sites on Sept. 1, will also remain on Orbitz sites. Friday's announcement follows news on Tuesday that American Airlines and US Airways fares would be pulled from Orbitz sites.  This sent shares of Orbitz tumbling on Tuesday. In Friday's statement, Sam Fulton, president of Orbitz.com said, "We are pleased that our long-standing relationship with American Airlines allowed us to quickly resolve business matters and that we continue to offer a broad range of options, including American Airlines and US Airways flights, to the millions of shoppers who book travel on our global sites each day." In after hours trade Friday, Orbitz shares were up about 1%.  FREE AppDownload
Josue MendivilDartmouth CollegeDartmouth College fraternity whistleblower Andrew Lohse released his purported tell-all "Confessions of an Ivy League Frat Boy: A Memoir" this week, and the reviews have not been kind. The Dartmouth — the college's student newspaper — compared it to James Frey's much maligned faux-memoir "A Million Little Pieces," and wrote "towing readers through this slogfest feels like an act of hazing itself." In The Wall Street Journal, Dartmouth alum Joseph Rago writes "The worst hazing rite I can imagine is spending time inside the mind of Mr. Lohse." One of the biggest critiques of the former Sigma Alpha Epsilon brother's first literary effort is that it's unclear how true his claims are. In his book and a previous whistle-blowing column in The Dartmouth, Lohse details much of the hazing he supposedly participated in, including swimming in "a kiddie pool full of vomit, urine, fecal matter, semen and rotten food products." (Check out an excerpt of "Confessions of an Ivy League Frat Boy" here ») Looking through the recent coverage of "Confessions of an Ivy League Frat Boy," as well as previous articles in The Dartmouth and Ivy League gossip blog IvyGate [where I was formerly an editor], it becomes clear that Lohse may not be the most reliable narrator. Here's why: There's Never Been Evidence Of Lohse's Worst Hazing Claims Via Wikimedia CommonsDartmouth's Sigma Alpha Epsilon chapterAlthough colleges tend to be bad at policing their own problems, it's worth noting that Lohse's claims went nowhere at Dartmouth. As noted by The Dartmouth: In 2012, the College launched an investigation into SAE in response to Lohse’s public account. Later that year, the College charged SAE and 27 of its members with hazing violations. Charges against all 27 members were later dropped. College spokesperson Justin Anderson wrote in a statement at the time that "information initially presented to the UJAO supported the charges. Information received subsequently, however, indicated that the initial information contained inaccuracies and was not a sufficient basis for the charges to proceed to hearing." Additionally, while SAE did come forward to confirm some of the more benign hazing claims, another Dartmouth administrator said at the time that the school "did not find a preponderance of evidence that SAE engaged in the most egregious of the allegations detailed in the report and did not find a preponderance of evidence that SAE hazed new members in 2011." Lohse claims he has pictures to support many of his allegations and that he has shown them to Dartmouth administrators. But as IvyGate reported in 2012, "Nobody, except Lohse and the College’s administration, has seen these pictures. (You would know if we had!) Furthermore, they do not depict everything he wrote about — just a lot of beer and someone vomiting. Where are these pictures? Lohse hasn’t provided a single one." Rago, writing in The Wall Street Journal, also raises these concerns in his review of Lohse's book: Trigger warning: These may be the worst, and least trustworthy, confessions in the 16 centuries since St. Augustine's. As an Ivy League frat boy myself, who graduated from that Hanover, N.H., institution not long before Mr. Lohse arrived, I found his story far-fetched, and anyone ought to question the testimony of an aspiring Bret Easton Ellis. ... More to the point, some of the incidents that Mr. Lohse describes are crimes. For that reason, both the Hanover police and the college administration investigated and found no evidence or other witnesses to corroborate his allegations. None. The author claims these same authorities, whom most students and alumni regard as no fans of the Greek system, are part of a conspiracy. Lohse Knows How To Seize An Opportunity In March 2012, a few months after his column in The Dartmouth, Lohse was the subject of a profile in Rolling Stone, written by Janet Reitman. IvyGate called the piece a "comprehensive character assassination of its main subject" who is portrayed as a "violent, pretentious, alcoholic, mentally ill, status-anxious, back-stabbing drug addict." As multiple articles about the new book point out, Lohse has a problematic history with Dartmouth that may have influenced his motivations in writing the book. As Rago writes: But it was only after Mr. Lohse had ruined his education, his job prospects and his health that the aspiring writer followed through on his plan to "blow the lid in a fireworks-laden media display." By trashing the college's character, he hoped to provoke the administration to abolish the fraternity and sorority system. Are his confessions honest—or ex post facto baloney meant to serve his political agenda and, by the way, help land a book deal and (fingers crossed) movie treatment? Likewise, The Dartmouth's review raises a similar point: The shattered beer bottle on the cover should spray dollar signs. It seems that's what this book is for — if Lohse couldn't make it on Wall Street like all of us surely will, he'll make it in print, beating this dead horse until it stops spitting out money. As The Dartmouth's reviewer points out, Lohse's book plays into commonly held stereotypes about two of higher education's most maligned groups — Ivy League preps and obnoxious frat bros. "Confessions of an Ivy League Frat Boy" gives readers a certain sense of a story before the book even begins: The Ivy League — the ultimate name drop — perks up would-be readers' ears. It represents prestige and excellence, and those who sit on its pedestal become the easiest targets ... Now Dartmouth has assumed its place at the guillotine, a public spectacle for the many who have waited for their suspicions of Greek life to be validated. In making himself out to be the prototypical Dartmouth student, Lohse dangerously perpetuates the stereotypes of the legacy, Republican, J. Crew-only, screw-school, coked-up alcoholic. By exploiting these hackneyed labels and founding his stories on them, Lohse prompts audiences to believe him, wave their fists and shake their heads while thinking, "I knew it! Those fraternities are nothing but…(insert cliché)." FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsIt's a long weekend for U.S. investors: time to barbecue some ribs.Stocks went nowhere in a quiet trading session ahead of the Labor Day holiday weekend. As Rich Barry of NYSE put it in his mid-afternoon update on Friday: "Felt like I was the only knucklehead commuting to work this morning." Despite the quiet trading session, the S&amp;P 500 did manage to make a new all-time closing high for the third time this week.  First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Friday: 1. Personal spending unexpectedly declined in July, falling 0.1% against expectations for a gain of 0.2%. Personal income also came in below expectations, growing 0.2% against expectations for a 0.4% increase. The personal income and outlays report also contained the latest personal consumption expenditures, or PCE, data, the Federal Reserve's preferred measure of inflation. "Core" PCE, which excludes the more volatile cost of food and energy, rose 1.5% year-over-year, right in line with expectations. Following the report, Michael Gapen at Barclays said, "Altogether, the report suggests a much softer start to consumption in Q3 and is a negative for our GDP tracking estimate as the level of real personal spending in July is below the Q2 average. After today’s report, we are now tracking 2.2% for Q3 real GDP, down five-tenths from 2.7% prior to the report." 2. The University of Michigan's final consumer confidence survey for August came in at 82.5, topping expectations for a reading of 80.0. This reading was also far better than the 79.2 preliminary reading from earlier this month. The current conditions index ticked up to 99.8 from a preliminary reading of 99.6, the highest reading since 2007. 3. The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago's PMI for August came in at 64.3, blowing away expectations for a 56.5 reading. This was also up signifcantly from July 52.6 reading, which was the lowest reading in a year. Following the report, Dean Maki at Barclays said, "The Chicago PMI had fallen sharply in July after strong readings in Q2 2014; the August rebound suggests that production in this region is on a solid track in Q3 2014 despite a soft July reading." 4. Among the biggest stock gainers on Friday was Splunk, up nearly 20% after the software company on Thursday night reported revenue of $101.5 million, up 52% over the prior year. Splunk also raised its revenue outlook for the current fiscal year to $423-$428 million from a prior outlook of $402-$410 million.  5. The Russian ruble fell further against the U.S. dollar, bringing its losses over the last two months to more than 8% as one U.S. dollar now buys nearly 37 rubles. The most recent slide in the value of the ruble comes after tensions between Russia and Ukraine flared on Thursday. Also on Friday, Oppenheimer Funds, the largest fund shareholder in Carlsberg — which is one of the foreign companies most highly exposed to the Russian economy — cut its stake in the brewer. Earlier this month, Carlsberg said sales volume in its Eastern Europe segment were down 20% in the second quarter.  6. On Friday the U.K. government raised the current terror threat level to "severe," indicating that an attack is "highly likely," though the British government said no intelligence suggests an attack is imminent. British Home Secretary Theresa May said on Friday that, "The increase in the threat level is related to developments in Syria and Iraq where terrorist groups are planning attacks against the West. Some of these plots are likely to involve foreign fighters who have traveled there from the UK and Europe to take part in those conflicts." This is the first time the threat level has been raised to "severe" since 2011.  In the U.S., the Obama administration said it had no plans to follow Britain's lead.  7. U.S. markets are closed on Monday in observation of the Labor Day holiday. U.S. markets won't be closed for a holiday until Thanksgiving, so enjoy the day off Monday and celebrate the unofficial end of summer. Don't Miss: Here's How Little You Earn On Stocks After You Pay The Man, Uncle Sam, And The Invisible Hand » FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersPeople wait to buy medicines at a drugstore in CaracasCARACAS (Reuters) - A government plan to combat Venezuela's food shortages by fingerprinting shoppers in grocery stores has sparked a backlash ranging from violent street protests to social media campaigns ridiculing the idea. Shoppers have for more than a year struggled to find basic goods including cooking oil, powdered milk and corn flour as well as detergent, shampoo and diapers. Apart from a short supply of dollars for imports, the shortages have been blamed on heavy subsidies that allow shoppers to stock up on staples and resell them in neighboring Colombia or on the local black market. President Nicolas Maduro says the biometric system, to be introduced this year, will allow authorities to weed out smugglers, often seen in lines buying conspicuous amounts of goods that are in short supply. "It's absurd. How does a fingerprinting machine help you? It's only more regulation," said Jose Briceno, a pastry chef who was once a fervent supporter of late socialist President Hugo Chavez but says his handpicked successor, Maduro, should resign. "I've reached my limit," said Briceno, 39, adding that he has to go shopping nearly every day to find what he needs for his kitchen. Demonstrators opposed to the fingerprinting scheme clashed this week with police in San Cristobal, a city near the border with Colombia where product shortages are among the worst in Venezuela. Some Caracas residents banged pots and pans on Thursday night in a traditional display of anger although the issue looks unlikely to spark the kind of massive demonstrations that rocked Venezuela for three months this year. "I wanted to strangle Maduro," Esperanza Diaz, a 54-year-old retired government worker, said of the plan. "We can't keep being abused," she added, speaking in front of half-empty shelves as she stocked up on rare sugar at a sprawling government-run Bicentenario supermarket in central Caracas.   'SCAN THIS' Government supporters argue that while stores in this oil-rich South American nation used to be better supplied, the poor could ill-afford to stock up on many consumer items anyway. They blast what they call a pampered, out-of-touch elite for seeking to stir up trouble. "I agree with the fingerprinting system because I see how smugglers are bleeding the country dry," said Ninoska Mazza, 40, a real estate agent waiting behind other shoppers at a Bicentenario meat counter. Venezuelans used to dodging socialist regulations are already joking that "rent-a-fingers" will soon emerge to help duck around the system. A Twitter campaign shows a hand flashing the middle finger with the hashtag #ScanThisFingerprint. The government has in recent days scaled back the fingerprinting plan, saying it will be voluntary and only required for 23 basic goods. Some Venezuelans are skeptical the plan will even be implemented but others see a dark motive behind it. "They want to control us," said Monica Betancour, 43, a dentist looking for turkey at a supermarket in posh eastern Caracas. "Whenever they announce a protest against this, I'll be there," she said.   (Reporting by Alexandra Ulmer; Editing by Brian Ellsworth, Kieran Murray and Tom Brown) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersKraft food products are displayed in a market in San Francisco, CaliforniaNEW YORK (Reuters) - Kraft Foods Group Inc &lt;krft.o&gt; said on Friday it is voluntarily recalling 7,691 cases of some varieties of its Kraft American Singles as a precautionary measure after a supplier failed to store an ingredient correctly. The Northfield, Illinois-based company said the recall affects four varieties of Kraft American Singles Pasteurized Prepared Cheese Product. The recall is for products with "Best When Used By" dates of Feb. 20, 2015, and Feb. 21, 2015. A supplier did not store an ingredient in accordance with Kraft's temperature standards. While unlikely, this could create conditions that could lead to premature spoilage and food-borne illness, the company said. Kraft said that any of the product in question should not be consumed and should be returned to the store where purchased for an exchange or full refund. Kraft said it has had no consumer illness complaints for the product associated with the recall. The cheese was produced at Kraft’s Springfield, Missouri, facility.   (Reporting by Anjali Athavaley; Editing by Leslie Adler) FREE AppDownload
Scott Olson / Getty ImagesNEW YORK (Reuters) - A year after Goldman Sachs &lt;gs.n&gt; bungled a software upgrade and lost tens of millions of dollars from unintended trades, the 12 U.S. stock options exchanges have crafted new rules for dealing with erroneous transactions, according to draft documents seen by Reuters. Under the proposed rules, unintended trades placed by professional traders will usually have their prices adjusted to levels as close to their fair market value as possible, while wrong trades by retail customers will be mainly be undone, five sources with knowledge of the matter told Reuters. The rules are meant to protect investors from algorithms gone wild and other sources of market turmoil. Regulators and exchange operators across equities, commodities and other markets have been taking steps to prevent mistaken trades from spiraling into collapses, a rising concern as trading grows increasingly automated. When market prices are oscillating wildly, technical glitches can create turmoil, said Andy Nybo, head of derivatives research at advisory firm TABB Group. "A cohesive solution for the industry is critical to get in place before we have another technology blowup," he said. In other markets, technical glitches have created big trouble for traders. Knight Capital Group, a stock trading firm now known as KCG Holdings Inc, lost $461.1 million in August 2012 from new software that was improperly installed. The loss forced the company to seek $400 million of rescue capital and eventually led to its sale to a rival firm. But critics say the new stock-option trading rules are hardly perfect. Participants often don't know whether they are trading with a professional or a retail investor. If markets start surging or plunging unexpectedly, traders have no way of knowing if their positions will disappear, or be adjusted. That uncertainty could result in many traders exiting a choppy market just when they are most needed, said Thomas Peterffy, founder and head of Interactive Brokers &lt;ibkr.o&gt;, a brokerage and options market maker. "All of the liquidity goes out of the marketplace and then it will never recover," he said. Although listed stock options markets are a fraction of the size of U.S. equities market, derivatives exchanges are seen as a crucial tool for dealers and other market participants to offload risk from the stock market. The proposed rules come at the behest of U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Chairwoman Mary Jo White, who last September ordered the heads of the exchanges to take specific steps to make the cash equities and options markets more sound, including a unified rule for obvious errors for options trades. Exchanges have been fine-tuning the plan with the help of the SEC since June, and expect to file it with the regulator in four to six weeks, according to one of the people. All of the sources asked to remain anonymous because the details are not yet public. Once the plan is filed with the SEC, it will be made available for public comment, which will later be reviewed by the regulator before deciding on whether to approve the rule. Options exchange operators NYSE, which is owned by Intercontinental Exchange Inc &lt;ice.n&gt;, Nasdaq OMX Group &lt;ndaq.o&gt;, BATS Global Markets, CBOE Holdings &lt;cboe.o&gt;, International Securities Exchange, owned by Deutsche Boerse &lt;db1gn.de&gt;, and BOX Options Exchange, owned by TMX Group &lt;x.to&gt;, declined to comment for this story, as did the SEC. Miami International Holdings Inc did not respond to a request for comment.      ONE PROBLEM, A DOZEN SETS OF RULES Options trade across a dozen different exchanges, and each exchange has its own rules for how to deal with mistaken trades. Those differing rules can create trouble. In August 2013, Goldman's software snafu resulted in its flooding stock options markets with bad trades, pushing the prices of some options down sharply. When Goldman Sachs said the transactions were erroneous, some exchanges canceled the positions, and some did not. Traders that had bought an option from Goldman on one exchange and sold the same position on another could have found themselves holding an option they thought they had sold. Goldman's losses would have been far greater had most of the trades not been canceled. In crafting rules for dealing with mistaken trades, exchanges had originally planned to adjust most obviously erroneous trades, said three people familiar with the matter. But retail brokers objected, and said that their customers tend to make mistakes that professionals don't, such as buying or selling a completely different option from what they had intended to trade. Allowing different treatment for professional traders versus retail investors seemed like a middle ground, the sources said. Retail trading accounted for 24.3 percent of options market volume in the first half, according to TABB Group. Under the rules, a trade is deemed obviously erroneous if its price differs dramatically from the market level for that option soon before and after the transaction was executed. But the rules also allow market participants to change trades that were harmed by unexpected market movements that had nothing to do with technical glitches: a trade can be deemed obviously mistaken even if the price movement that triggered the trade was just a market gyration after a surprising event. After the proposed rules are in place, the exchanges will then consider a second phase of coordination, including appointing a single, uniform source for determining the theoretical prices of options, something that each of the exchanges now does on its own, three of the sources said. The exchanges will also look at implementing a system similar to one in the stock markets where options would be prevented from trading outside a range based on recent prices, the people said. The exchanges have given themselves leeway in the rules that would allow them to cancel all erroneous trades for all participants if they think that doing so would lead to getting the market back to a normal state as quickly as possible.   (Reporting by John McCrank; Editing by Dan Wilchins and John Pickering) FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Market Downturns Are A Perfect Time For Bargain Hunting (AdviceIQ) Market downturns have a way of grabbing attention and fueling anxiety amongst investors. However, "long-term investors should not worry, and instead see opportunity, " writes Lewis Walker, president of Walker Capital Management LLC. "Market downturns are times to buy good bargain stocks. Think back to early March 2009, the low point after the crash. America was on sale. If you bought stocks then, when they were cheap, you more than doubled your money as of now. " Although financial pundits offer a variety of reasons for a market downturn, Walker believes "a simple explanation for the fall perhaps is the most rational of all – that’s what markets do, periodically." What Investors Can Learn From Natural Disasters (The BlackRock Blog) According to Russ Koesterich, chief investment strategist for BlackRock and iShares chief global investment last week's Napa Valley earthquake "was a violent, but good, metaphor for the dangers lurking in financial markets." For Koesterich, a decade-long Bay Area resident, the earthquake was a stark reminder of the risks in living in the region. He equates this experience with financial markets in that "stocks and other risky assets have been doing particularly well the last few years. So well, in fact, that it’s easy to forget there are risks below the surface. While I continue to believe that equities and other risky assets can advance further this year, it’s worth considering what to do when the next shock hits financial markets."  Active Management Is Still The Way To Go In Investing (Advisor Perspectives) As media outlets herald the rise of passively-managed investment vehicles, William Smead, chief executive and chief investment officer for Smead Capital Management believes that actively managed investing should still be the preferred method.  Smead writes, "financial advisors and registered investment advisors feel severe pressure to throw in the towel on manager selection methodologies and accept index returns. Yet, many of these stories forget one central concept: indexes are actually inexpensive actively-managed portfolios. Every actively managed fund is an index itself." He adds, "the recent negativity towards active management invites us to remind readers what we find useful in indexed common stock investing versus the value we find in active management. Under the logic pervaded by the crowd and the media, many managers and organizations are practicing poor performing versions of active management and investors are told, or being shamed into giving up on all efforts to actively manage a common stock portfolio." The 4% Rule For Annuity Withdrawals May No Longer Be Viable (Financial Planning) Traditionally, withdraws from annuities were done based on the 4% rule. Under the rule, explains financial writer Donald Jay Korn, "a retiree can start by withdrawing 4% of accumulated savings, raise withdrawals to match inflation and, with certain assumptions, be fairly confident the money will last for 30 years." “Recent studies indicate the 4% rule may have a high failure rate given today’s low interest rates,” says Ric Runestad, who heads a financial services firm in Fort Wayne, Ind. "The possibility of repeated bear markets adds to the risk of this regimen, as inflation-expanded withdrawals could speed asset depletion," adds Korn. Here's What Is Happening In Market Today (Charles Schwab) "The stock market continues to exhibit great resiliency, with bouts of selling this year stopping short of a correction, and reversing quickly, " writes Charles Schwab chief investment strategist Liz Ann Sonders, director of market and sector analysis Brad Sorenson, and director of international research Michelle Gibley . Although, "stocks suffered a quick 4-5% decline," they recovered fairly rapidly and move to new highs," added the team at Schwab.  In addition, longer-term interest rates labored higher only to plunge again. "We remain optimistic about stocks for the foreseeable future, although we would prefer the kind of grind-higher market we've experienced recently over a melt-up," concluded the trio. "We would also welcome pullbacks and even a correction as it would keep sentiment contained; and could elongate the bull market. " FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersKraft food products are displayed in a market in San Francisco, CaliforniaNEW YORK (Reuters) - Kraft Foods Group Inc &lt;krft.o&gt; said on Friday it is voluntarily recalling 7,691 cases of some varieties of its Kraft American Singles as a precautionary measure after a supplier failed to store an ingredient correctly. The Northfield, Illinois-based company said the recall affects four varieties of Kraft American Singles Pasteurized Prepared Cheese Product. The recall is for products with "Best When Used By" dates of Feb. 20, 2015, and Feb. 21, 2015. A supplier did not store an ingredient in accordance with Kraft's temperature standards. While unlikely, this could create conditions that could lead to premature spoilage and food-borne illness, the company said. Kraft said that any of the product in question should not be consumed and should be returned to the store where purchased for an exchange or full refund. Kraft said it has had no consumer illness complaints for the product associated with the recall. The cheese was produced at Kraft’s Springfield, Missouri, facility.   (Reporting by Anjali Athavaley; Editing by Leslie Adler) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ueslei MarcelinoThe United Kingdom will push the European Union this weekend to consider the most punitive sanctions yet against Russia for its involvement in escalating the crisis in Ukraine. According to Bloomberg, the U.K. plans to propose blocking Russia from the SWIFT banking transaction system, a move analysts say would effectively cut off Russian businesses from the rest of the world's financial system. U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron will put forward the proposal during a meeting with E.U. leaders in Brussels on Saturday. "This would be a major escalation of the sanctions. Most international payments flow through SWIFT. Banning Russian banks and companies from SWIFT would effectively cut off Russian businesses from the rest of world," said Bruce Johnston, a London-based analyst at Morgan, Lewis &amp; Bockius.  "It would also have a major impact on European businesses who need to paid by Russians, and want to consume Russian energy." The move would have a significant effect on Russia's banking sector, as many financial institutions across the world use the system. According to SWIFT's website, it transmitted more than 21 million financial messages per day in July. It helped process payments among more than 10,500 financial institutions and corporations across 215 different countries. Mark Dubowitz, the executive director of the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, compared the potential move to one leveled on Iranian institutions in 2012. "SWIFT is the electronic bloodstream of the global financial system," he told Business Insider in an email. "Cancelling Putin's credit card could have far reaching consequences for the Russian economy as Iran discovered when scores of its financial institutions were expelled from SWIFT in 2012." ReutersDavid Cameron will propose blocking Russia from the SWIFT network.The U.S. and E.U. have imposed multiple rounds of sanctions on Russia over the conflict in Ukraine. Most recently last month, they leveled targeted sanctions on Russia's energy, arms, and finance sectors. But so far, the sanctions have not changed the calculus of Russia or President Vladimir Putin. This week, the conflict has sharply escalated, as Ukraine, NATO, and the West said Russia sent troops across the border to fight with pro-Russian separatist rebels in eastern regions of the country.  This week, the rebels have opened a new front in the cities of Amvrosiivka and Starobeshevo. One fear is that Russia is attempting to create a land link between Russia and the strategic peninsula of Crimea, which Russia annexed with special forces troops in March. Poroshenko said Russian troops are leading a separatist counteroffensive in the east, bringing in tanks and firing artillery from inside Ukrainian territory. President Barack Obama and European leaders have agreed on the need for new "costs" in the wake of the latest escalation, but officials in both areas are questioning the legitimacy of the strategy. In the U.S., multiple Republican lawmakers have called on Obama to provide military assistance to Ukraine, saying a political resolution to the conflict is not possible if Russia continues to pursue its goals through military means. In Europe, geopolitical expert Ian Bremmer of the Eurasia Group told Business Insider he expected there to be high-profile breaks among leaders on the sanctions strategy. "It's hard to see the west holding off for much longer in not calling Russian forces an invasion. That leads to more 'level 3' (sector wide) sanctions on Russia, yes, but we'll now see a real fragmentation of European leaders publicly calling the policy a failure and looking to break from further coordination," Bremmer said. "After all, many Europeans have been deeply skeptical of Russian sanctions from the beginning, and to the extent that the purpose of sanctions was to prevent an invasion. That's clearly failed."Senior Obama administration officials declined to comment about possible new sanctions on Russia during a conference call with reporters Friday about new sanctions leveled on individuals and businesses in relation to Iran's nuclear program. An administration official did not immediately respond to a subsequent request for comment. Ukraine National Security and Defense CouncilThe situation in eastern Ukraine on Friday, Aug. 29. FREE AppDownload
Getty Images/ Rob CarrFrancis Tiafoe.Hedge fund titan Bill Ackman, the CEO of $14 billion Pershing Square Capital, is sponsoring 16-year-old tennis phenom Francis Tiafoe. Tiafoe, a top-ranked junior, won his first Grand Slam main-draw match in doubles this week at the U.S. Open.  ESPN tennis analyst Brad Gilbert told CNBC that Tiafoe was a player to watch. He said there's "a huge, huge hedge fund guy" backing Tiafoe. Gilbert didn't name Ackman explicitly, but we were able to figure it out. We got in touch with Ackman, and he told us that Tiafoe has a great story.  "[Tiafoe] has a very compelling life story and he's super-talented. He's a good kid," Ackman told Business Insider by phone. "I'm in a position to be able to help people, and he's the kind of guy you want to back." Tiafoe's story is unique compared to other players. His father, an immigrant from Sierra Leone, was the janitor at the Junior Tennis Champions Center in College Park, Maryland. The JTCC is a nonprofit tennis academy built by former Goldman Sachs partner, Kenneth Brody. It's known for being one of the top facilities for creating players. Tiafoe and his twin brother, Franklin, would come to work with their dad. Tiafoe pretty much grew up on the tennis courts. The first time he picked up a racket he was only 3 years old.  "He fell in love with the game at a very young age, probably four or five," JTCC's CEO Ray Benton said. "Like most great athletes, he would watch the older kids play and then try to copy what they do. He's just been devoted to the game literally since he was born. He has a real passion for the game." At 15, he became the youngest ever to win the prestigious 18-and-under Orange Bowl. Tennis superstars Andy Roddick and Roger Federer also won the Orange Bowl as teens, but they were older than Tiafoe.  Photo courtesy of Tom NewtonBill Ackman.Tiafoe met Ackman in the summer of 2013. Some of the JTCC's other top juniors were invited to the Hamptons for Kenneth Brody's 70th birthday. Investment banker-tennis player Jeffrey Appel, affectionately known as the "Mayor of New York Tennis," brought the junior players to Ackman's house where they played doubles.  Ackman partnered with Tiafoe and took a liking to him. This summer, Ackman traveled to College Park to play with Tiafoe at the JTCC.  "I'm most appreciative for Bill for supporting Francis and JTCC. We're dependent on the generosity of supporters like Bill to give aid to our youngsters who have been vetted to prove that they have a real financial need," Benton said, adding that he's also thankful for Appel for supporting the organization and making the introduction to Ackman. Ackman is heavily involved in the tennis community on Wall Street. Ackman played in high school at Horace Greeley in the 1980s, but he did not play in college. He returned to the tennis world thanks to the encouragement of Appel. Ackman frequently plays in charity tournaments, and he donates significant amounts of money to various causes.  It's expensive to be a tennis player. It's a sport where you can lose money for a long time before you have a chance of making it. It's a sport where you really do need a backer. It's unclear how much Ackman's sponsorship is, but we're told by another source that it's "a meaningful amount."   FREE AppDownload
Fees, taxes, and even inflation just kill your investment returns. A Thornburg Investment Management study of "real, real returns," which was alerted to us by Cullen Roche at Pragmatic Capitalism, shows how various costs eat into your stock market returns.  Real, real returns take into account expenses (the man), taxes (Uncle Sam), and inflation (the invisible hand). Thornburg's study notes that "nominal returns are a misleading driver of an investor's investment and asset-allocation planning ... because they are significantly eroded by taxes, expenses and inflation." The risk then, as Thornburg sees it, is that a failure to understand real, real returns could lead to investment decisions that miss potential diversification opportunities.  This chart from Thornburg shows how the annualized nominal return of $100 invested in the S&amp;P 500 between 1983 and 2013 is about 11%, making that investment worth $2,346. However, on a real, real basis that investment returns 6%, making it worth just $570. A pretty stark difference between expectations and reality. Thornburg Investment Management FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsIt's a long weekend for U.S. investors: time to barbecue some ribs.Stocks went nowhere in a quiet trading session ahead of the Labor Day holiday weekend. As Rich Barry of NYSE put it in his mid-afternoon update on Friday: "Felt like I was the only knucklehead commuting to work this morning." Despite the quiet trading session, the S&amp;P 500 did manage to make a new all-time closing high for the third time this week.  First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Friday: 1. Personal spending unexpectedly declined in July, falling 0.1% against expectations for a gain of 0.2%. Personal income also came in below expectations, growing 0.2% against expectations for a 0.4% increase. The personal income and outlays report also contained the latest personal consumption expenditures, or PCE, data, the Federal Reserve's preferred measure of inflation. "Core" PCE, which excludes the more volatile cost of food and energy, rose 1.5% year-over-year, right in line with expectations. Following the report, Michael Gapen at Barclays said, "Altogether, the report suggests a much softer start to consumption in Q3 and is a negative for our GDP tracking estimate as the level of real personal spending in July is below the Q2 average. After today’s report, we are now tracking 2.2% for Q3 real GDP, down five-tenths from 2.7% prior to the report." 2. The University of Michigan's final consumer confidence survey for August came in at 82.5, topping expectations for a reading of 80.0. This reading was also far better than the 79.2 preliminary reading from earlier this month. The current conditions index ticked up to 99.8 from a preliminary reading of 99.6, the highest reading since 2007. 3. The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago's PMI for August came in at 64.3, blowing away expectations for a 56.5 reading. This was also up signifcantly from July 52.6 reading, which was the lowest reading in a year. Following the report, Dean Maki at Barclays said, "The Chicago PMI had fallen sharply in July after strong readings in Q2 2014; the August rebound suggests that production in this region is on a solid track in Q3 2014 despite a soft July reading." 4. Among the biggest stock gainers on Friday was Splunk, up nearly 20% after the software company on Thursday night reported revenue of $101.5 million, up 52% over the prior year. Splunk also raised its revenue outlook for the current fiscal year to $423-$428 million from a prior outlook of $402-$410 million.  5. The Russian ruble fell further against the U.S. dollar, bringing its losses over the last two months to more than 8% as one U.S. dollar now buys nearly 37 rubles. The most recent slide in the value of the ruble comes after tensions between Russia and Ukraine flared on Thursday. Also on Friday, Oppenheimer Funds, the largest fund shareholder in Carlsberg — which is one of the foreign companies most highly exposed to the Russian economy — cut its stake in the brewer. Earlier this month, Carlsberg said sales volume in its Eastern Europe segment were down 20% in the second quarter.  6. On Friday the U.K. government raised the current terror threat level to "severe," indicating that an attack is "highly likely," though the British government said no intelligence suggests an attack is imminent. British Home Secretary Theresa May said on Friday that, "The increase in the threat level is related to developments in Syria and Iraq where terrorist groups are planning attacks against the West. Some of these plots are likely to involve foreign fighters who have traveled there from the UK and Europe to take part in those conflicts." This is the first time the threat level has been raised to "severe" since 2011.  In the U.S., the Obama administration said it had no plans to follow Britain's lead.  7. U.S. markets are closed on Monday in observation of the Labor Day holiday. U.S. markets won't be closed for a holiday until Thanksgiving, so enjoy the day off Monday and celebrate the unofficial end of summer. Don't Miss: Here's How Little You Earn On Stocks After You Pay The Man, Uncle Sam, And The Invisible Hand » FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersPeople walk past a Sprint store in New YorkBy Marina Lopes and Alina Selyukh WASHINGTON (Reuters) - With plans for a T-Mobile US Inc merger in tatters, Sprint Corp is expanding a roaming program with rural cellphone companies that could provide a much-needed way for the debt-laden wireless carrier to cheaply increase its footprint. In March, Sprint Chairman Masayoshi Son struck a roaming deal with the Competitive Carriers Association (CCA), which represents many U.S. rural and regional carriers, to use each other's networks for roaming at a mutually attractive price. In June, Sprint announced that a dozen small carriers, covering a population area of 34 million people, had struck roaming deals following the outlines of the CCA agreement. Sprint and CCA plan to announce another batch of individual agreements to expand the roaming partnerships at an industry trade show in early September, CCA President and Chief Executive Officer Steve Berry said this week. When Son announced the mutual roaming agreement, many industry observers shrugged it off as a sweetener to soften U.S. regulators' opposition to a T-Mobile acquisition. Rural carriers have long complained about the difficulty and expense of getting the largest carriers, Verizon Communications Inc and AT&amp;T Inc, to let customers of smaller providers onto their networks. Deals with rural carriers could offer Sprint a lifeline to improve its national presence following the collapse of the merger with T-Mobile. So far, Sprint has  already saved an estimated $1.7 billion in costs of building new towers and other infrastructure, according to a source familiar with the calculations. Sprint's new CEO Marcelo Claure said that the networks of rural carriers "are really important in places where we haven't and don't intend to build our network."  CHEAPER ROAMING The 12 mutual roaming agreements already signed with rural and regional carriers, including Virginia-based nTelos Wireless and Mississippi-based C Spire Wireless, have added 352,000 square miles to Sprint's service territory, which like T-Mobile's has been largely concentrated around metropolitan areas while Verizon and AT&amp;T's coverage stretches nationwide. "It's a business relationship that's frankly bred out of necessity," said CCA's Berry, explaining that the agreement helps rural partners share savings with Sprint while staying competitive. "You've got to have a roaming partner." Claure's challenges are complex and long-term as the company struggles to recover the millions of customers it lost during its messy network overhaul in recent years. The task is particularly tough in a nearly saturated market and with No. 4 T-Mobile pushing to leapfrog Sprint as the No. 3 U.S. carrier. Sprint's debt is equivalent to 147 percent of its market cap, compared with 55 percent at Verizon. Perhaps because Sprint needs rural coverage more than its rivals, its roaming agreements offer the carriers more perks and more flexibility than they have seen from other companies. While T-Mobile has offered some roaming agreements, experts say Verizon's rural program is the only comparable alternative that offers rural carriers nationwide 4G roaming. Verizon's program, however, largely limits partners to building networks that rely on airwaves owned by Verizon, while Sprint's allows them to use their own spectrum. Sprint's partners also say it offers more attractive roaming rates. "It's one thing to get a roaming agreement, it's another thing to get a roaming agreement with non-punitive roaming rates," said Eric Graham, senior vice president of strategic relations at C Spire. Roaming agreements are notoriously secretive, with companies signing non-disclosure agreements about rates. Verizon says its roaming rates reflect the value of its nationwide network. Another major perk Sprint offers is access to devices at cheaper prices negotiated with handset distributors, solving a major problem for smaller carriers who are often stuck paying top dollar for devices because they lack their competitors' scale. Claure's appointment as CEO may lead to even better handset prices. The Bolivian-born entrepreneur made his fortune through a cellular phone wholesale business called Brightstar which has close ties with handset makers and may provide better access to the latest smartphones at decent prices both for Sprint and its partners.  (Editing by Grant McCool) FREE AppDownload
ReutersIt's been a tough year for Abercrombie &amp; Fitch. The teen apparel maker's same-store sales fell 10% in fiscal 2013, and in the most recent quarter, sales were down 7%. The company is struggling to lure fickle teen shoppers, who are spending less on apparel than previous generations. The company is taking three steps to bring back customers. They are: 1. Ditching the logo business. The company said on an earnings call Thursday that its logo business would be reduced to "practically nothing" in North American markets by next spring. This is a seismic change in Abercrombie's business strategy. Loud logos, as pictured below, have been central to the teen apparel maker's fashions for decades. ReutersThe change is already reflected in Abercrombie's fall line. Here are some examples: Abercrombie & FitchAbercrombie's fall line shows a departure from its preppy aesthetic. 2. The company is changing the nightclub aesthetic of its stores to make them more open, light and inviting. Abercrombie is removing the dark shutters (shown below) from its windows to let in more light, turning down the volume on its store music, and cutting back on regimented cologne spritzing inside its stores.  Reuters3. Abercrombie is trying to turn its Hollister brand into a fast fashion retailer, like Zara and Forever 21. The transformation will mean lower prices and more styles for Hollister shoppers. The company is making the transition by beefing up its U.S.-based supply vendors to decrease the turnaround time for new fashions.  FREE AppDownload
CorcoranNice, but worth $300,000!?A family from the midwest dropped an eye-popping $300,000 to rent a mansion in Bridgehampton for a single week this summer, The New York Post reports. That's a new Hamptons rental record, according to the post. The home, dubbed the "Sandcastle" in Bridgehampton, has made headlines before. Jay Z and Beyoncé reportedly spent $400,000 to rent it for a month in August 2012. The Sandcastle was built by well-known Hamptons homebuilder Joe Farrell, and has a movie theater, bowling alley, walk-in refrigerator, wine room, climbing wall, basketball court, private gym, and spa. Still, $300,000 is a ton of money for a week's vacation. Gary DePersia at Corcoran has the rental listing. Callie Bost contributed to this story. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/US Coast GuardAn image from video taken by a U.S. Coast Guard HC-144 Ocean Sentry aircraft shows the oil tanker United Kalavyrta (aka the United Kalavrvta), which is carrying a cargo of Kurdish crude oil, approaching Galveston, Texas, July 25, 2014.A tanker near Texas loaded with $100 million of disputed Iraqi Kurdish crude has disappeared from satellite tracking, the latest development in a high-stakes game of cat and mouse between Baghdad and the Kurds. The AIS ship-tracking system used by the U.S. Coast Guard and Reuters on Thursday showed no known position for the United Kalavrvta, which was carrying 1 million barrels of crude and 95% full when it went dark. Several other tankers carrying disputed crude from Iran or Iraqi Kurdistan have unloaded cargoes after switching off their transponders, which makes their movements hard to track. Days ago, the partially full Kamari tanker carrying Kurdish crude disappeared from satellite tracking north of Egypt's Sinai. It reappeared empty two days later near Israel. And in late July, the tanker United Emblem offloaded part of its cargo of Kurdish crude onto another ship in the South China Sea. Baghdad, which says it has the exclusive right to export the crude, has filed a lawsuit in a U.S. court to reclaim control of the United Kalavrvta cargo and block the Kurdistan Regional Government from delivering it. REUTERS/US Coast GuardThe suit shows Baghdad is stepping up a legal and diplomatic push to stop Kurdistan from exporting crude, which the Kurds say is crucial to their own dreams of independence. The court on Monday threw out an order issued to seize the cargo, saying it lacked jurisdiction because the tanker was some 60 miles offshore. The judge has invited Iraq to replead its case over the rightful ownership of the cargo. Baghdad could file claims against anyone taking delivery of the oil. A Coast Guard official said the vessel in the Gulf of Mexico might have turned off its beacon, sailed beyond antennas that monitor transponders, or perhaps some antennas might have been taken out of service. However, dozens of vessels were visible on Thursday in the Galveston Offshore Lightering Area, where the Kurdish tanker was last seen. [Reporting by Terry Wade and Anna Louie Sussman. Editing by Andre Grenon] REUTERS/Tom DuncanThe oil tanker SCF Byrranga, renamed the United Kalavryta in March 2014 (also known as United Kalavrvta) and is currently off the coast of Texas with a cargo of Kurdish crude oil, seen off the Isle of Arran, Scotland, in Feb. 21, 2014.  FREE AppDownload
Via Wikimedia CommonsDartmouth's Sigma Alpha Epsilon chapter, where Andrew Lohse was a brother.Former Dartmouth College student Andrew Lohse's purported fraternity hazing tell-all "Confessions of an Ivy League Frat Boy: A Memoir" was released this week, and is getting slammed with bad reviews — including a particularly critical one in The Dartmouth, the school's student newspaper. The Dartmouth's review paints "Confessions of an Ivy League Frat Boy" as a pointless rehash of Lohse's college experience, wherein the former Sigma Alpha Epsilon brother repeats tales of hazing so ridiculous they almost force you not to believe them. As The Dartmouth's reviewer writes, "Even if his allegations are true, towing readers through this slogfest feels like an act of hazing itself ... I came to resent Lohse both for his senseless participation in these heinous situations and for the way he put me through them." Check out an excerpt of "Confessions of an Ivy League Frat Boy" here &gt;&gt; Lohse first gained notice in 2012, when a column of his in The Dartmouth chronicled the hazing he reportedly went through as an SAE pledge — and later participated in as a brother. Among the most disturbing details included "a kiddie pool full of vomit, urine, fecal matter, semen and rotten food products" that pledges were forced to swim through, and the pledges' collected demotion to "whale sh*t" in the eyes of the SAE brothers. In "Confessions of an Ivy League Frat Boy," The Dartmouth's review states, "Lohse expands the saga by over 300 pages, filling the gaps with redundant tales of basements, abuse and self-pity." In a separate news article about the book's release this week, The Dartmouth notes that much of the hazing detailed in Lohse's claims was found by the college to be inaccurate and not a solid enough account to bring forth charges: "In a campus-wide email [in 2012], then associate dean of campus life April Thompson wrote that the Organizational Adjudication Committee, a panel of students, faculty and staff, had found SAE responsible for hazing, disorderly conduct and providing alcohol to underage students. SAE admitted to driving blindfolded students off campus and having new members enter a 'splash pool filled with food,' acts that constitute hazing, she wrote. However, she wrote that 'the OAC did not find a preponderance of evidence that SAE engaged in the most egregious of the allegations detailed in the report and did not find a preponderance of evidence that SAE hazed new members in 2011.'" Other reviews have also found problems with Lohse's new memoir, calling into question the validity of his claims. In The Wall Street Journal, Dartmouth alum Joseph Rago writes: "Trigger warning: These may be the worst, and least trustworthy, confessions in the 16 centuries since St. Augustine's. As an Ivy League frat boy myself, who graduated from that Hanover, N.H., institution not long before Mr. Lohse arrived, I found his story far-fetched, and anyone ought to question the testimony of an aspiring Bret Easton Ellis. ... More to the point, some of the incidents that Mr. Lohse describes are crimes. For that reason, both the Hanover police and the college administration investigated and found no evidence or other witnesses to corroborate his allegations. None. The author claims these same authorities, whom most students and alumni regard as no fans of the Greek system, are part of a conspiracy." Dartmouth spokesperson Justin Anderson sent the following statement to Business Insider: Hazing is strictly prohibited by Dartmouth College and by New Hampshire state law. Dartmouth continues to strengthen and clarify its anti-hazing policies and expanded educational programming as part of a comprehensive effort in 2012 to create a safer social environment to support students' academic development. Since becoming Dartmouth College President in 2013, Phil Hanlon has made the issue of campus behavior—and engaging the entire community in improving it—a leadership priority. In the coming months, a Presidential Steering Committee will present recommendations to Dartmouth's Board of Trustees for ways to improve student life across all areas where social activities take place, including fraternities, sororities and residence halls. Moreover, Dartmouth has initiated discussions with other universities and colleges to identify and implement best practices to rid our campus of all extreme behavior. Dartmouth provides many opportunities and strong support for learning and personal growth in and out of the classroom. It is regrettable when a student, like Mr. Lohse, makes poor choices and fails to take advantage of the experience and resources we provide. We are committed to working continually as a community to improve campus life and also to strengthen students’ understanding of the personal responsibilities they shoulder. In 2012, the fraternity in question was investigated and charged with violations of Dartmouth’s hazing policy, resulting in multi-term sanctions. As President Phil Hanlon stated on April 16, 2014 at the Student Summit, "Change will not come from the top down. True and lasting change will come because of a change in ethos by every member of our community." Read The Dartmouth's full review of Andrew Lohse's "Confessions of an Ivy League Frat Boy" here &gt;&gt; FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Patrick T. FallonA pyrotechnic explosion to help simulate a real disaster debris field is seen during the full-scale, LAX Air Exercise aircraft disaster simulation training drill at Los Angeles International Airport (LAX), in Los Angeles, California April 24, 2013. I moved to California with my family nearly 10 years ago. I have never regretted it. But early last Sunday morning, my family and I, along with others living in the Bay Area, were reminded of the downside of life in the Golden State. Fortunately, last week’s earthquake took a greater toll on property than people. But in addition to providing a stark reminder of the costs (beyond sky-high housing prices) of living in San Francisco, it also was a violent, but good, metaphor for the dangers lurking in financial markets. Stocks and other risky assets have been doing particularly well the last few years. So well, in fact, that it’s easy to forget there are risks below the surface. While I continue to believe that equities and other risky assets can advance further this year, it’s worth considering what to do when the next shock hits financial markets. Here are three investing lessons I took away from last week’s earthquake. 1. Shocks, by definition, are unpredictable; their performance isn’t telegraphed to anyone ahead of time. An earthquake is a very visceral reminder of that. In the financial sphere, while it’s true that a few smart (and lucky) investors got ahead of the last financial crisis, most missed the signs and few predicted the magnitude. And market shocks that are more exogenous in nature (think 9/11) are impossible to predict. Even today, while investors focus on the fragility of the Middle East or the conflict in Ukraine the next geopolitical shock could just as easily come from North Korea. When the next real shock, which I’ll define as something lasting more than a week, hits, the odds are few will see it coming. 2.  Have your market downturn plan down on paper. In California, you’re supposed to keep an earthquake kit ready. Ideally, the kit includes food, water, a flashlight and other essentials. Our own earthquake kit is normally missing the first item: food. This isn’t a reflection of my wife’s preparedness; rather, it’s a function of my own bad tendency to raid the kit whenever I can’t find something I want in the kitchen. Going forward, I’ll have to break this bad habit. For investors, the relevant preparation is to have a financial plan, ideally one consistent with your own objectives and risk tolerance. For example, when the next downturn hits, will you sell equities to limit losses or use it as a buying opportunity? The answer depends on your own financial objectives, stage of life and risk tolerance. But regardless of the details of the plan, you should have one ahead of time, and it ideally should be written down. 3. Build your portfolio for bad times as well as good. Portfolios, like houses, need to withstand the occasional shock. In the case of a house, this means retrofitting, earthquake insurance and bolting down the wine rack (as a bourbon drinker, my earthquake-related bottle losses were thankfully limited). Recently, some investors have been ignoring this lesson. No matter how attractive or cheap stocks are, few investors should be 100% in equities, with the possible exception of the very young and very brave. But the longer the bull market goes on, the more tempted many investors are to abandon other asset classes and seek the higher returns of stocks. The problem is this behavior can leave you maximally exposed to markets at exactly the wrong time. Investors need to build a portfolio consistent with their objectives, and for most, that means a portfolio that can offer downside protection as well as upside potential.  This means it’s important to have some long-term strategic allocation to safe-haven assets – Treasuries, cash and gold – that tend to appreciate, or at the very least hold their value, when everything else is collapsing. While these assets may be a drag on returns today, they serve a purpose over the long term. One final, non-financial point. Movies featuring an earthquake invariably have a scene with an animal getting agitated before the quake begins. In retrospect, this seems to be a bit of Hollywood fiction. Every single person I know said the same thing: their dog slept through the entire quake. In our case, the only reaction by our golden retriever was to look visibly annoyed when my wife turned on the lights. It seems we interrupted his sleep. Source: BlackRock FREE AppDownload
Reuters via YouTubeCiti's Tom FitzpatrickThis week, we saw the S&amp;P 500 finish over 2,000 for the first time ever.  This is a whopping 200% gain from its March 2009 low. Tom Fitzpatrick and the technical analysis team at Citi see a chance for this rally to keep going, moving "towards at least 2,150-2,250" and "possibly 2,350-2,400 into Q1, 2015." The team at Citi looked at trading in the S&amp;P 500 earlier this year, and thinks the five months of gains that followed the 6% decline seen January-February could portend a similar rise in the S&amp;P following the 4% "hiccup" in July. The basic setup, as the Citi team sees it, is that August could be another month like those seen in July 2009, October 2011, and February 2014, where market gains outpace the decline seen during the previous month. This is known as an "outside bullish" month. If this pattern holds, which Citi says would be the case if the S&amp;P closes over 1,991 on Friday, prior rallies indicate the S&amp;P could be headed to 2,150-2,250. Citi But Citi sees potential for an even bigger upside move for the S&amp;P 500: 2,400. If the current bull market holds up like the bull market of the 1990s, which saw a 251% low-to-high rally, a move off the March 2009 lows would be an advance to around 2,340. And if we get an "outside bullish" month in August, this trend could be extrapolated to a move toward 2,400, Citi says. Here's what the current trend for the S&amp;P 500 looks like, with the top trend line showing a clear path to north of 2,340. Citi So now, we wait. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jonathan ErnstJanet Yellen has a big stamp collection. According to Yellen's latest financial disclosure, her stamp collection is worth $15,001-$50,000. Yellen, however, did not appear to sell any stamps, as income related to that asset was listed as none, or less than $201.  The disclosure form requires Yellen to list her assets and income, though the amount of each asset held is put into a range bucket, not given a precise figure.  A report from Martin Crutsinger at the AP said the value of Yellen's assets — which include stakes in ConocoPhillips, Pfizer, and Office Depot common stock, as well as a number of stock and bond funds — rose 8% in 2013. Yellen did not appear to hold any social media or biotechnology stocks in her portfolio.  Here's Yellen's full disclosure, which was posted on Scribd by The New York Times' Binyamin Appelbaum.  FREE AppDownload
Essygie / Flickr, CCA scene from the area near the Bank tube station.Bonuses for British investment bankers and finance workers increased by nearly £700 during the 2013-2014 year, to an average of £13,300 ($22,070) per person, according to the Office of National Statistics. By contrast, bonuses for non-banking workers averaged out at £1,500, the same as the year prior. Here are some highlights from the report: Read the whole thing here. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Alexander DemianchukCOPENHAGEN (Reuters) - The largest fund shareholder in Carlsberg &lt;carlb.co&gt;, which has proven vulnerable to deteriorating conditions in Russia and has lowered its 2014 guidance, has cut its stake in the company by a quarter, the brewer said on Friday. Carlsberg said Oppenheimer Funds' &lt;opy.n&gt; stake in the company is now 4.78 percent, down from 6.42 percent. Carlsberg said this month that it expected full-year operating profit to decline by a low-to-mid-single-digit percentage compared with previous guidance of growth of low single-digit growth. Its share price fell almost 7 percent to as low as 502 Danish crowns on Aug. 20 when it announced second-quarter results and cut its forecast. On Friday the shares were trading half a percent up at 525 crowns. The beer seller derives 35 percent of its operating profit from Russia, where its Baltika label is the most popular beer brand. However, sales have been falling as the economy slows, in part because of Western sanctions over Moscow's stance on Ukraine. Carlsberg's dependence on Russia makes it a test case for how European companies are coping with the chill in Moscow's relations with the European Union.   (Reporting by Shida Chayesteh; Editing by David Goodman) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike StoneMichigan fans cheer.Consumer confidence in the U.S. is on the rise. The University of Michigan's consumer confidence index jumped to 82.5 in August, beating expectations for a print of 80.0. This was also much stronger than the preliminary estimate of 79.2, and the 81.8 in July. "Consumer expectations had fallen sharply in early August, presumably due to the stock market swoon early in the month, but most of that decline was retraced in the second half of the month," said Barclays' Dean Maki. The current conditions index ticked up to 99.8 from the preliminary print of 99.6. This is the highest level since 2007. The outlook index was revised up sharply to 71.3 from 66.2. This comes amid an improving U.S. labor market and despite geopolitical turmoil overseas. "The rebound was strongest among high income households, who reported more favorable trends in their income and wealth," Maki said. "Overall, consumer confidence remains in the relatively tight range it has occupied this year and is consistent with continued moderate growth in consumer spending." FREE AppDownload
GetTaxi/InstagramEli has been a professional taxi driver in Tel Aviv for 17 years, and he's been professionally employed by GetTaxi for the past few. The on-demand car service was founded there in 2010 and currently employs 3,500 drivers like Eli. But lately, a competitor has been mucking with Eli's and Gett's business. On Aug. 25, Uber launched its taxi line in Tel Aviv. In the months leading up to the launch, Gett says a few Uber employees have been using its service to schedule hundreds of rides collectively. During the rides, drivers say, the Uber employees have been trying to recruit them. At least 15 drivers, including Eli, have told Gett they had passengers who were Uber drivers. This prompted Gett to send an email to all of its drivers asking them to choose: Uber or Gett. All Gett drivers received a text that roughly translates to: "Drivers that will be found working in parallel with Uber will be disconnected from the service immediately. That decision is based on the effort to keep the taxi industry as is, which is against Uber’s values." Two weeks later, Gett closed an estimated 100 to 160 Gett driver accounts because it thought those drivers had switched over to Uber. Uber doesn't have this policy. Drivers can choose multiple services to work with besides Uber, including Lyft and Gett. The smart yet somewhat invasive tactic Uber allegedly uses to recruit from competitors is internally called Operation Slog, according to a report by The Verge's Casey Newton. Leaked documents Newton received suggest Lyft is Uber's primary poaching target. But abroad, where other services like Gett reign, Uber has been allegedly been targeting other competitors in a similar fashion. For example, two weeks ago, Eli says he was surprised to find Uber's Tel Aviv marketing manager in his car. We interviewed Eli and Gett Tel Aviv manager Iris Hermon about what it's allegedly like to get ambushed by an Uber recruiter. Here's how they explained it to Business Insider. GetTaxiA GetTaxi driverOn Aug. 11, Eli received a destination address from a potential passenger in Tel Aviv. Eli had never been to the destination before, but it was only a 5- to 10-minute drive. So he accepted the trip and went to pick the person up. Eli didn't realize at the time that the Tel Aviv address he had been given was actually Uber's new headquarters. "Right away, I felt like I was being grilled," Eli says of the passenger. The passenger asked how long Eli had worked for Gett, if he was happy there, if he wanted to work for Uber, and if he had any friends who might want to work for Uber, according to Eli. Eli says he politely declined to answer questions posed by the passenger, who soon introduced himself as Uber's marketing manager. But the marketing manager kept asking him questions. "He kept trying to recruit me," says Eli. "He kept trying to tell me I should leave GetTaxi and that I should come to a [recruitment] meeting. He said Uber would be so much better." Still, Eli says he declined the verbal offer. No Uber forms, kits, or wads of cash were thrown at Eli to entice him to switch. Gett says the marketing manager didn't use a fake credit card or burner phone to schedule the pick-up, like The Verge's report on Operation Slog had suggested. Instead, Uber's marketing manager gave his real contact information. When Eli arrived at the destination, the Uber marketing manager paid on the app and got out of his car. Eli hasn't heard from him since. But soon after that incident, Eli had a strange thing happen. He can't say for a fact that Uber is behind it, but he has his suspicions. One day while trying to log in to Gett's tablet app to accept rides, Eli found his account disabled. GettAll of the rides GetTaxi says were allegedly canceled by Uber employees in January, color-coded by employee.Gett had received a tip that Eli had joined Uber, even though Eli rebuffed the marketing manager's offer. Neither Gett nor Eli is sure who gave false information to Gett. It could have been a friend of Eli's who knew about the ride, or it could have been an Uber employee calling anonymously with Eli's information. Gett passengers are supplied with drivers' real names and numbers once they book a ride, unlike on Uber where passengers are given temporary numbers for drivers. It also could have been Gett's aggressive policing against Uber's recruitment that caused Eli to miss a day of work. Other taxi drivers in Tel Aviv have reported Gett workers allegedly hailing Ubers and cross referencing the driver's first name and photo with information in Gett's database to reveal which drivers are working for both companies. Gett denied this claim to Israeli publication Calcalis. But a driver also told Calcalis that Gett representives have hovered outside Uber's headquarters to see which Gett drivers are going in and out of the building.  Either way, the miscommunication cost Eli a full day of fares before Gett let him back on its service. Here's what an Uber spokesperson had to say when asked to comment on this story: "As we have spread the word about Uber to riders and drivers in Tel Aviv, we have received a tremendous response in a very short time. Tel Aviv is now one of the 205 cities around the world where Uber delivers unmatched economic opportunity and flexibility to drivers and safe, reliable rides to users." Eli's experience with Uber and Gett isn't the first time the two companies have butted heads. In January, Gett says it received 134 cancelled rides in New York from Uber employees within a 3-day period (see chart above). Documents reviewed by Business Insider at Gett's NYC headquarters this week seemed to confirm the cancellations. That's contrary to what Uber wrote on its blog this week about Operation Slog: "We never use marketing tactics that prevent a driver from making their living – and that includes never intentionally canceling rides." According to Gett's internal records, Uber's New York Manager hailed a ride from different locations all across Manhattan on Jan. 14, each within a couple of minutes of each other. To do this, Gett speculates that the Uber employee dragged his icon across the mobile map on Gett's app to fake numerous pick-up spots repeatedly. Gett says he used multiple names and a fake credit card for one of the accounts to make the bogus requests. GettUber's NYC Marketing Manager made these ride requests on Jan 14, 2014, between 12:11pm and 1:26pm, according to Gett NY. "It was likely too aggressive a sales tactic and we regret the team's approach to outreach of these drivers," an Uber spokesperson said at the time. Gett says it doesn't mind the competition. And it's actually smart for Uber to scope out its competition, learn how the experience works, and find like-minded individuals (competing drivers) to hire. "Most of the markets we enter or are in now are very competitive, and our philosophy is to compete,” Uber's head of expansion Jambu Palaniappan told Bloomberg. “I’m fully confident we will be relevant in Tel Aviv.” Gett does mind when its drivers are made to feel uncomfortable. "I felt very uneasy," Eli told Business Insider of his ride with the Uber marketing manager. "I'm working for GettTaxi. It damaged [my reputation with Gett]. I was cutoff and I couldn't get work because I was under suspicion...I never approached Uber or expressed interest. I was happy with my work with GetTaxi. If you’re happy with where you work, why do you have to look elsewhere?" Hermon shares Eli's sentiment. "It was uncomfortable for us as well. In simple words, it made a big mess in our system."  She adds, "We welcome every competition. We think it's great that users get more options, just as long as you keep the game going using the official [legal] rules and you respect each other." Disclosure: Business Insider executive editor Joe Weisenthal is the spouse of a Gett employee. He was not involved in the editing of this story. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsBEFORE the financial crisis of 2007-08 low long-term interest rates fuelled an extraordinary house-price boom around the world. That bubble was pricked in the crisis and subsequent recession. Since then, however, central banks' attempts to crank up the recovery by pushing down long-term interest rates to new lows have had a predictable consequence in many property markets. House prices are now rising in 18 of the 23 economies that we track, in eight of them at a faster pace than three months ago (see table). There remain some weak spots, especially in Europe. Prices in Spain, which had one of the biggest bubbles before the crisis, are still falling. They have also been declining in France and Italy, reflecting continuing economic weakness in the euro zone's second- and third-largest economies. In contrast, housing markets are buoyant in some northern European countries, notably Britain. Since some recovery was bound to occur after the housing slump, how worrying are the renewed signs of exuberance? To assess whether house prices are at sustainable levels, we use two yardsticks. One is affordability, measured by the ratio of prices to income per person after tax. The other is the case for investing in housing, based on the ratio of house prices to rents, much as stock market investors look at the ratio of equity prices to earnings. If these gauges are higher than their historical averages then property is deemed overvalued; if they are lower, it is undervalued. The EconomistBased on an average of these measures, houses are at least 25% overvalued in nine countries. Judged by rents, the most glaring examples are in Hong Kong, Canada and New Zealand. The overshoot in these economies and others bears an unhappy resemblance to that prevailing in America at the height of its boom before the crisis. Following an agonizing housing slump, America's property market now looks in good shape. Prices are rising again, but there are few signs yet of history repeating itself. Although low borrowing rates are supporting the market, frothiness seems to be confined to some cities such as San Francisco where the supply of new homes is especially curtailed. This forms part of a broader tendency for property markets to be especially bubbly in big cities, particularly capitals such as London. With global monetary conditions so loose, governments are using regulatory tools to cool overheated housing markets. In Canada, for example, the maximum term of the riskiest mortgages has been lowered from 40 to 25 years. Regulators in both Hong Kong and Singapore have repeatedly raised stamp duties and tightened lending restrictions. The measures seem finally to be working, especially in Singapore, where prices are now falling. China's market is on the turn. Though prices are still higher than a year ago they have edged down over the past three months. Developers are cutting back as a glut of newly-built homes has swamped the market. Since property and construction make up 13% of GDP, a big fall would pose trouble for the economy. But that may be contained since Chinese homebuyers have to chip in big deposits while the government has the fiscal capacity to prop up the market if things turn really nasty. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike StoneMichigan fans cheer.Consumer confidence in the U.S. is on the rise. The University of Michigan's consumer confidence index jumped to 82.5 in August, beating expectations for a print of 80.0. This was also much stronger than the preliminary estimate of 79.2, and the 81.8 in July. "Consumer expectations had fallen sharply in early August, presumably due to the stock market swoon early in the month, but most of that decline was retraced in the second half of the month," said Barclays' Dean Maki. The current conditions index ticked up to 99.8 from the preliminary print of 99.6. This is the highest level since 2007. The outlook index was revised up sharply to 71.3 from 66.2. This comes amid an improving U.S. labor market and despite geopolitical turmoil overseas. "The rebound was strongest among high income households, who reported more favorable trends in their income and wealth," Maki said. "Overall, consumer confidence remains in the relatively tight range it has occupied this year and is consistent with continued moderate growth in consumer spending." FREE AppDownload
David Banks/Getty ImagesChicago PMI crushed expectations. Chicago PMI came in at 64.3, blowing away expectations for the report to come in at 56.5, up from July's 52.6 reading, which was the lowest reading since June 2013.  Friday's report showed the barometer regained all of the ground lost in July. Friday's reading also marked the highest level for the report since May.  According to Bloomberg's Alex Tanzi, six of the report's components rose in August, including prices paid, new orders and inventory. The employment component of the report, however, fell in August. Inventories grew at the fastest pace in eight years, with inventories of finished goods jumping to above 60, the highest since October 2006. Following the report, Philip Uglow, Chief Economist at MNI Indicators said, "We had speculated that July’s downturn would prove temporary rather than signal the start of a downward trend. The sharp bounceback in August, with growth in output at the highest for nearly ten years, suggests that growth in the US economy will continue apace in Q3." This chart from ISM Chicago shows the recent volatility in the report. ISM Chicago FREE AppDownload
You may have always had an inkling that mosquitos had their eye on you. It turns out, they do hunt for certain people, here's what piques their interest. Produced By Matt Johnston.Follow BI Video: On Facebook
REUTERS/Paul RogersBritain's Prime Minister David Cameron (C) and Home Secretary Theresa May (3rd R) speak to Police Sergeant Gerry Harrison (R), during a visit to look at new community police crime prevention initiatives, including targeted CCTV and a new PC based mobile device, in Cheshunt.Britain's government has raised the country's terror threat level to "severe," Home Secretary Theresa May said on Friday.  It's the second highest of five potential threat levels. According to the U.K. government, it means an attack is "highly likely." But there is no intelligence to suggest an attack is imminent. May said the threat level was raised because of the risk from the deteriorating situation in Iraq and Syria, where extremist militants from the group calling itself the Islamic State (also ISIS or ISIL). May said, however, that there was no specific threat to Britain that caused the raise in the terror level. This is the first time Britain's terror threat level has been at "severe" since 2011. "The increase in the threat level is related to developments in Syria and Iraq where terrorist groups are planning attacks against the West. Some of these plots are likely to involve foreign fighters who have traveled there from the UK and Europe to take part in those conflicts," May said in a statement. "The first and most important duty of government is the protection of the British people," May said. "We have already taken steps to amend our powers and increase our capabilities for dealing with the developing terrorist threats we face. That process will continue and the British public should be in no doubt that we will take the strongest possible action to protect our national security." In a statement delivered from Downing Street in London Friday afternoon, U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron said Britain was facing a "greater and deeper threat to our security than we have known before." He said confronting ISIS was part of a generational struggle that he thought could last "decades." "Poisonous ideology of Islamist extremism is the root cause of the terror threat," Cameron said. "We will always act with urgency when needed." In the U.S., the Obama administration said it had no plans to follow Britain's lead and increase its threat level.  In a statement, Jeh Johnson, the secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, said the department had in recent weeks taken a "number" of steps to increase security at airports with direct threats to the U.S. The department has also boosted its tracking of foreign fighters throughout the region. "At present, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security and the FBI are unaware of any specific, credible threat to the U.S. homeland from ISIL," Johnson said. "Plainly, however, violent extremists who support ISIL have demonstrated the intent and capability to target American citizens overseas, and ISIL constitutes an active and serious threat within the region." REUTERS/Osama Al-dulaimiA tribal fighter aims his weapon during an intensive security deployment to fight against militants of the Islamic State in the town of Haditha, northwest of Baghdad.The West — particularly the U.S. and U.K. — have increased their warnings about ISIS in the wake of the group's brutal murder of American journalist James Foley last week. A 23-year-old former British rapper is considered a prime suspect in Foley's beheading. Cameron said Friday that it "increasingly seems to be a British terrorist recorded on that video" of Foley's murder. At least 500 people from Britain have traveled to Middle Eastern regions to join ISIS, Cameron said. Western officials have warned about the possibility of ISIS fighters holding Western countries' passports traveling back to those countries to plan and possibly launch attacks. Cameron said there was "no doubt" in his mind that ISIS is "targeting all of us in Western Europe." He did not commit to joining the U.S. and possibly other allies in taking military action against the group, saying it was just "one element of what we can do." "We must use aid, diplomacy, and our military," he said. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsA Russian ruble.The Russian ruble is getting slammed. It's down 0.6% against the dollar today. In the last two months, the ruble has fallen more than 8%, with 1 U.S. dollar currently buying nearly 37 rubles, up from about 34 in late June. The latest decline in the ruble comes after Russian troops appeared to make additional advances in Ukraine, which Ukrainian president Petro Poroshenko called a "sharp aggravation of the situation in Donetsk region." Following this move on Thursday, geopolitical expert Ian Bremmer of Eurasia Group tweeted, "Russia, Ukraine now at war." This chart from Google Finance shows the decline in the value of the ruble against the dollar, with the ruble pushing new lows in the last few days following the most recent movement of Russian troops into Ukraine. Google Finance And this chart shows the inverse, or how many rubles one dollar buys, with the dollar making new highs against the ruble in the last few days. Google Finance FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Cisemail LONDON (Reuters) - European asset managers cut their exposure to stocks in August as expectations of rate hikes in the United States pushed many to book profits while shares remained near record highs, a monthly poll shows. A Reuters survey of 11 European chief investment officers and fund managers found the average recommended allocation to equities in balanced portfolios dropped to 45.7 percent from 49 percent a month earlier - the lowest since September 2013. The pullback in equities benefited alternative investments, such as hedge funds, private equity and commodities. They rose to 7.2 percent from 5.6 percent. Property allocations rose to 1.7 percent from 0.5 percent. "We decided last week, with equities actually not too far off their highs for the year, was a better time to lower our still constructive stance on equities," said Steven Steyaert, a portfolio specialist at ING Investment Management. Steyaert said a combination of geopolitical threats, such as the conflict in Ukraine, and mounting speculation the U.S. Federal Reserve will soon tighten monetary policy had prompted ING's new stance on stocks. The MSCI World Index &lt;.MIWO00000PUS&gt;, which tracks stocks from developed economies, is currently at 1,748, less than 1 percent off the record high of 1,765.77 points reached in July. But even if U.S. interest rates rise soon, they are likely to remain low enough for investors to keep up their search for yield, Steyaert said, to the benefit of asset classes such as real estate. Elke Speidel-Walz, the chief investment strategist at Deutsche Bank's asset and wealth management arm, also highlighted the tension over Ukraine as leading both to greater risk aversion and to as well as a misfiring economic recovery in Europe. "As recent macro indicators in the Eurozone have surprised on the weak side, this could lead to a new evaluation of the outlook for ongoing recovery in the Eurozone and hence impacting financial markets," Speidel-Walz said. Within global equity portfolios, the poll showed European investors allocating more to emerging markets and the U.S. at the expense of Europe and the UK. One respondent cited uncertainty over a referendum on Scottish independence next month as making British assets less attractive. The average allocation in global equity portfolios to North America, where growth prospects look brighter than they do in Europe, rose more than a percentage point in August to 40.7 percent, the poll showed, the highest since July last year. Meanwhile, allocations to the euro zone fell more than two percentage points to 30.2 percent. Those to the UK dropped to 6.3 percent from 7.5 percent a month earlier. Allocations to Asia excluding Japan rose to 6.3 percent from 5.8 percent in July.   (Editing by Larry King) FREE AppDownload
Personal spending unexpectedly declined in July. The latest personal income and outlays report from the BEA showed that personal spending fell 0.1% in July, missing expectations for spending to rise 0.2%.  Personal income rose 0.2% in July, slightly less than the 0.3% that was expected.  Core PCE, the Fed's preferred measure of inflation, rose 1.5% year-over-year in July. This was in-line with expectations. The report showed that private wages and salaries increased $12.9 billion in July, less than the $25.6 billion increase seen in June, while supplements to wages and salaries rose $3.7 billion July, which compares to a $4.8 billion increase in June.  Following the report, Paul Dales, senior U.S. economist at Capital Economics, said the decline in personal spending, "confirms our suspicion that consumption was weak at the start of the third quarter." "The recent strength of the business surveys, however, suggests that overall annualized GDP growth could still get close to 3%," Dales said.  FREE AppDownload
Alberto E. Rodriguez/Getty ImagesThe Apple co-founder Steve Wozniak has spoken out against wearable technology, slating most smartwatches as no more than smartphone accessories that could be relegated to the same category as Bluetooth headsets. Apple is expected to release its first smartwatch on 9 September in California, alongside a new larger iPhone. Samsung and LG released two new smartwatches this week, joining a growing number from various manufacturers. “I feel that wearables are a hard sell,” Wozniak told technology site CNET. “They are go-betweens for your smartphone but are an extra piece and need special advantages that the smartphone doesn’t have, in my opinion.” “If they are just a Bluetooth go-between then it could wind up in the category of Bluetooth headsets: fun to wear and show off for a day,” said Wozniak, describing the derision that Bluetooth hands free voice calling headsets suffer and their propensity to be bought and played with for a day or two before being abandoned or left for trips in the car. Esben OxholmA potential design of the iWatch.Despite sales data suggesting that consumers are tiring of current feature-light, Bluetooth-based wearables, Wozniak said he would expect Apple to offer something more akin to a mobile phone. Samsung has also just announced a Gear S smartwatch which has built-in data capability, and can be used for phone calls and messages rather than just relay notifications from a paired smartphone. “Apple works very hard to produce exceptionally great products and doesn’t quickly release things like a wearable. So if one is introduced I expect it to have a chance to set the direction and make the product category finally viable,” Wozniak said. Apple confirmed that it will hold its highly anticipated iPhone 6 launch event on 9 September in a specially built large auditorium at the Flint Centre in Cupertino, where there company has its headquarters. Its invitation included the cryptic words “wish we could say more”. Apple has dropped hints in the past about what it is set to unveil with its invites, placing multiple colours on the card for new colours of iPhones, for example. It is unknown, what the current invite hints but the event is expected to be the biggest launch in Apple’s history. • Apple confirms 9 September event - expect new iPhone and wearable • iPhone 6 screen could be sapphire-glass blend, says expert This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidSpecialist trader Michael Pistillo (L) gives a price for a stock just after the opening bell on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange August 28, 2014. JonesTrading's Dave Lutz has a roundup of what traders are talking about right now: Good Morning, and Happy Friday.   Global Futures are ticking higher, despite Ukraine - Putin made comments applauding the recent gains for the rebels after NATO claimed Russia has ‘well over 1,000 troops’ in Ukraine.  Micex, which lost 1.7% yesterday, is down another 50bp+, Ruble on all-time lows.  Ahead of the 3day weekend in the States, it’s no shock volumes are pacing light, as we wrap up the month of August.   The sound of printing presses has the doves excited – with S&amp;P marked up 25bp early – overnight we had a Slew of data suggesting Abenomics is failing to gain traction, while EU data showed price growth falling to its weakest in five years.  In Asia, the Nikkei fell small before the data dump, while Shanghai bounced from the recent IPO fundraising weakness.  Hong Kong was held back by weakness in casino Stocks (Macau Strike concerns).  Easing Tensions in Pakistan help the Sensex pop, while Aussie closed flat despite the Ore Miners getting hit again overnight.  Watch the EU Airliners as Iceland closes airspace and raised its aviation warning level to red as the Bardarbunga volcano erupted overnight. The 10YY is unch, as we continue to have Europe flooding toward credit on deflation concerns.   EU’s benchmark lending rate (EONIA) closed negative for the first time ever yesterday, but FX players said no cause for alarm (yet) – EUR is gaining small against $.  The Yen is breaking down as data came in quite weak in Japan - We continue to see money moving into EEM as Emerging-market stocks head for the longest streak of monthly gains since 2005.   Looking at commodities, WTI Oil is set for First Weekly Gain in Six, While Natty slides off post-expiry.   Keep an eye on Gold, it’s resting right on the 200dma – Copper is up 50bp, but she’s your worst performing metal over the last week.   Keep an eye on AG – specifically the Grains.   Wheat in rally mode again – big short out there.    At some point, NATO is holding an emergency summit today on Ukraine – other scheduled Catalysts today include Personal Income at 8:30, ISM Milwaukee at 9 – at 9:45 we get Chicago Purchasing Manager (Available 9:42 for $$$) – at 9:55 we have Univ. of Michigan Confidence.  There is NO POMO at 11, and we get the Baker Hughes Rig Count at 1.  Not sure if “Commitment of Traders” data will be published at 3:30 as normal. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Maxim ZmeyevA man walks past a closed McDonald's restaurant, one of four temporarily closed by the state food safety watchdog, with the Kremlin seen in the foreground, in Moscow, August 21, 2014.MOSCOW (Reuters) - McDonald's &lt;mcd.n&gt; said on Friday that a total of 12 of its branches in Russia had been temporarily closed over the state food safety regulator's allegations of sanitary violations. The U.S. fast-food chain, which has 440 restaurants in the country, also said that more than 100 inspections were underway at its restaurants in various regions of Russia. "We are studying the essence of claims in order to determine the necessary actions for the swift re-opening of restaurants for visitors," it said in a statement.   (Reporting by Maria Kiselyova; Editing by Pravin Char) FREE AppDownload
AFPWang Jianlin, head of conglomerate at Wanda Group, is the richest man in China.China's Wanda Group, headed by the country's richest man, is joining Internet giants Baidu and Tencent to set up an e-commerce platform costing more than $800 million, it said Friday. The three Chinese companies will initially invest five billion yuan ($813 million) in the project, Wanda chairman Wang Jianlin told a news conference in Shenzhen, adding their total funding could reach 20 billion yuan within five years. Wanda will hold a 70 percent stake in the joint venture, while Baidu and Tencent will take 15 percent each, he added. China's online shopping market is dominated by Alibaba, the Internet behemoth that is planning a huge US flotation, but Wanda denied the new platform was intended to challenge existing e-commerce operators. The new entity aims to integrate Wanda's offline retail business with search, location and communication services offered by Baidu and Tencent to build an online-to-offline (O2O) platform, a Wanda statement said. Wang is China's richest man with a net worth of $16 billion and owns 75 department stores, 85 shopping plazas and 51 five-star hotels, according to publisher Forbes. His private conglomerate bought US cinema chain AMC in 2012 and last year acquired British yacht maker Sunseeker.AFP Baidu operates a Chinese version of Google while Tencent owns the country's most popular messaging app WeChat, which had 438 million monthly active users as of June. "O2O could be the biggest cake in the e-commerce area but we haven't seen any single O2O platform," Wang said at the news conference, according to an online transcript. "In that regard, there's an equal opportunity for all." Wanda expects the venture to attract more than 40 million customers this year, and surpass 100 million next year. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Tony GentileItalian actress Cristina Capotondi attends the red carpet for the movie "La Rancon de la gloire" (The Price of Fame) at the 71st Venice Film Festival August 28, 2014. Good morning! Here's what you need to know: Eurozone Inflation Inches To Zero. Consumer prices inflation in the 18-country eurozone slowed to a five-year low of 0.3% in August, a slight tick down from 0.4% in July. "Euro-area inflation fell closer to zero in August," said Bloomberg economists Maxime Sbaihi and Niraj Shah. "The releases add weight to speculation the European Central Bank could announce further monetary stimulus as soon as next week." Eurozone Unemployment Still Stinks. The unemployment rate was unchanged at 11.5% in July. "Joblessness remains elevated in the euro area, but the recent signs of improvement should  not be ignored," said Pantheon Macroeconomics' Claus Vistesen. "The unemployment rate in the eurozone has declined steadily this year, and is down 0.5% from a peak in 2013. This is significant, but the main story is that overall growth is still too low to make a meaningful dent in unemployment." Italy Is In Deflation. Italy revealed consumer prices actually fell 0.2% year-over-year in August, a sharp deterioration from 0.0% in July. In other words, Italy is in deflation. German Retail Sales Tumble. Retail sales in Europe's largest economy plunged 1.4% in July, missing economists' expectations for a modest 0.1% increase. This was the biggest month-over-month decline since December. "The monthly data are extremely volatile, and we should expect a reversal  next month, but with German retail sales down 0.42% quarter-on-quarter in Q2, this is hardly the best start to the third quarter," said Pantheon's Vistesen. Abenomics Is Failing Japan. The world's third largest economy released a slew of disappointing data. Household spending plunged by 5.9% in July, which was worse than the 2.9% decline expected. The unemployment rate unexpectedly ticked up to 3.8% in July; economists were expecting it to be unchanged at 3.7%. Industrial production climbed by just 0.2% in July, which was much more modest than the 1.0% expected. Markets Are Up Ahead Of The 3-Day Weekend. Asia closed mixed with Japan's Nikkei down 0.2% and Hong Kong's Hang Seng up a fraction of a percent. Europe is modestly in the green with Britain's FTSE up 0.2%, France's CAC 40 up 0.2% and Germany's DAX up 0.2%. U.S. futures are up with Dow futures up 37 points and S&amp;P futures up 5 points. Get Ready For U.S. Data. There are three big economic reports coming today, starting with the July personal income and spending report at 8:30 a.m. ET. Economists estimate income jumped by 0.3% while spending climbed by 0.2%. "Weekly earnings for production and nonsupervisory employees from the BLS employment report increased in July," noted Nomura economists. "As for personal spending, core retail sales hit a soft patch, increasing by only 0.1% in July as most categories showed a decline or lackluster growth. Moreover, energy spending likely slowed in July as the weather was more moderate than usual, leading to less demand for air conditioning." A Midwest Economic Update. The Chicago Purchasing Managers index report will be released at 9:45 a.m. ET. Economists estimate this regional activity index jumped to 56.5 in August from 52.6 in July. "This would be a rebound after a sharp fall in July and consistent with the upward move in the Philadelphia Fed index in August," said Barclays economists. American Confidence. The University of Michigan's consumer confidence report will be released at 9:55 a.m. ET. Economists estimate this index of sentiment to registered at 80.0 in August, down from 81.8 in July but up from a preliminary estimate of 79.2. " If [79.2] sustained for the month as a whole, this would be the lowest level on the consumer sentiment index since November 2013," noted Credit Suisse economists. "But if equity markets continue to recover from their early-month swoon and geopolitical fears stabilize, we may see a slightly higher final sentiment reading for August. Lower gasoline prices probably are still helping to boost sentiment, as well." Malaysia Airlines Is Getting Smaller. "Malaysia Airlines will cut 30% of its workforceas part of a restructuring that will cost 6 billion ringgit ($1.90 billion), majority investor Khazanah Nasional said on Friday," reported Reuters' Al-Zaquan Hamzah. "Khazanah said the carrier will trim its staff by 6,000 to 14,000 as it seeks to stem long-running losses worsened by two aircraft disasters this year." FREE AppDownload
AFPA group of Japanese publishers have lashed out at Amazon's new book sale rules, after US and European authors accused the online retailer of using strong-arm negotiating tactics. Several Tokyo-based publishers said Amazon recently unveiled a four-point system that rates them based on the size of the commission they pay for selling books on the US company's vast website, among other criteria. Amazon then pushes hardest to promote books from publishers who agreed to the most favourable contract terms, which directly impacts how a book sells, they said, confirming a report by Japan's Asahi newspaper this week. "Many publishers are in talks with Amazon to renew their two-year contracts, but this time they're facing heavy demands from the company, which has grown rapidly here," one publishing source told AFP on condition of anonymity. "Some smaller publishers are facing demands to accept a surge in commission fees... or see their contract terminated. "If this kind of practice continues, small Japanese publishers who have created a diverse publishing culture here will be forced to go bankrupt," he said. Amazon was abusing its increasingly dominant position in Japan's books market, the publishers alleged. "We're not sure if linking promotion and commission fees to book circulation... is a fair business practice," another source said. In response, Amazon's Japanese unit described the matter as a private one between the company and publishers. "We decline to comment on this issue as it is linked to contracts," it said. The criticism comes after a German minister last week threw her weight behind authors battling Amazon over claims it was employing heavy-handed tactics with publishers. German-language authors have accused Amazon of delaying the release of books and boycotting authors signed to publishing houses in dispute with the US company. American writers have also protested over Amazon's dispute with publishing conglomerate Hachette which represents authors including JK Rowling, Malcolm Gladwell and James Patterson, accusing the company of "taking writers hostage" in its e-books pricing battle. In France, a new law aimed at supporting small bookshops bans online giants such as Amazon from delivering books without charge, but it allows them to set discounts of up to five percent, the maximum allowed under existing French legislation. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through his personal investment company Bezos Expeditions. FREE AppDownload
fxstreet.com The first week of September is the traditional return to desk, after a long summer break, for many traders and investors as the northern hemisphere ends its summer slumber and gets ready to re-enter the market. But this year’s return to desk coincides with the release of some massive data release both here in Australia and across global markets. Australia also has an RBA Board meeting and Governors announcement next Tuesday afternoon and we’ll be watching retail sales on Thursday closely to see if Australians really are caving at the moment. So by week’s end we’ll know where the economy was in Q2, we’ll know how it is going in Q3 (retail sales) and we’ll have a strong sense of where it is headed as we await the employment data, NAB Business survey and Westpac consumer confidence the week after. What a fortnight coming up at home let alone the ECB and BoE decision and US non-farm payrolls in the US next week. And do not forget the HSBC Chinese PMI. It’s going to be huge. And we’ll be covering it all here on BI. This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Startup BusPitching ideas on the Startup Bus.An estimated 90 per cent of startups fail and after four hours on the StartupBus hack-a-thon today I think I know why. Somewhere past Goulburn, rumbling down the highway from Sydney towards Melbourne, 23 entrepreneurs had finished pitching their ideas and begun recruiting team members ahead of a weekend-long road trip during which they need to build a viable startup that can be pitched in front of more than a thousand people at SydStart on Tuesday. After listening to over 20 potential ideas it became very apparent why the startup fail rate is so high. Just because you have an idea doesn’t mean you should launch a startup. People are full of ideas. They really are like seagulls circling a stray chip – never in short supply. On the bus, ideas pitched included: The key here is weeding out the good ones from the average or blue sky ones. And that takes a lot of talking and even more coffee. “A lot of people will look at a product as ‘here’s a features set’ rather than ‘here’s a problem which should be solved’,” StartupBus assistant conductor and former Huffington Post director of community Justin Isaf said. While it’s unrealistic to think you can create a billion dollar company in 72 hours on a bus, it is a good test situation which puts some of the big problems startups encounter over extended periods of time in a super-concentrated environment. There is a theme amongst early-stage startup entrepreneurs of keeping the idea on the down low for fear of someone stealing their concept and running off with it. Big mistake. “If you’re not talking to people you’re going to build the wrong the thing,” Isaf said. StartupBus founder and chief Elias Bizannes said: “You spend so long on unimportant things and what really matters is getting market validation. “You should always be breaking things and doing something different.” Garnering opinion and airing out a concept can be the difference between a startup idea with traction and one that stays solidly dragging in the dirt. “Put yourself in the shoes of someone that uses it,” Isaf said. “Most ideas I listen to, I think ‘you’re so detached from reality’…fur coats for dogs is not a good idea. “The danger is getting caught up in your own world. “Everything has been done the difference is how well you do it. It all comes down to how you can execute it.” So the first lesson from StartupBus is if you have an idea, don’t build it and don’t write it down – if you come back to it in six months then maybe it was a good idea – if you don’t think of it again it probably wasn’t. Alex Heber is on the road with the Australian StartupBus, a three-day trip in which a group of entrepreneurs will try to build a set of innovative technology companies over the course of a three-day bus ride. The journey finishes next week back in Sydney in time for the SydStartfinals. This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
AFPThirty gold bars have been buried on a beach in Britain by a German artist, prompting a flood of bounty hunters with metal detectors to seek their fortune Friday. The gold bars, worth a total of £10,000 (13,000 euros, $17,000), were buried in Folkestone, southeast England, by Berlin-based Michael Sailstorfer as part of an upcoming arts festival. Members of the public will be allowed to keep any of the 24-carat bullion which they find. "There are 30 gold bars buried there, along with a lot of washers, so if you bring your metal detector you will find a lot of washers before you find any gold," festival curator Lewis Biggs told the BBC. "We will never know if the gold has been found or not." One treasure hunter, John Coker, told the Guardian newspaper: "It is the first art in the world where I've hopped in a car and drove to see it straight away, so that's something." The bars, worth around £300 each, are a few centimetres long. The Folkestone Triennial's website said the German artist behind the project was interested in "the disruption of the everyday". "Sailstorfer is intent on expanding the notion of classical sculpture and Folkestone Digs is a continuation of his aim 'to make art that comes less from the head and more from the stomach,'" it said. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/China DailyAn E150 EV electric car is seen along a production line at a factory of Beijing Automotive Industry Holding Co (BAIC) on the outskirts of Beijing, July 23, 2014.SHANGHAI (Reuters) - China said on Friday it would offer tax breaks on purchases of electric cars predominantly made by Chinese automakers, in its latest policy measure to boost green vehicles in the world's biggest auto market, amid rising concern over pollution. Last month, the official Xinhua news agency reported the government would stop levying sales tax on approved models of green cars from Sept. 1. The Ministry of Industry and Information Technology posted on its website on Friday a list of 17 vehicles from 11 automakers, including one model each from the China joint ventures of Nissan Motor Co Ltd, General Motors Co and Daimler AG. The moves comes as China renews its push to popularize all-electric cars and heavily electrified so-called plug-in hybrid cars. The tax breaks aim to spur purchases of those electric cars in China, whose sales have already been subsidized by official purchase rebates. China last year renewed private-buyer subsidies for "new energy" or electric-powered vehicles for another three years, in part to fight air pollution. Under that program, Beijing now provides up to 60,000 yuan ($9,767) for the purchase of an all-electric battery car and up to 35,000 yuan for a "near all-electric" plug-in vehicle. Last month, China also ordered government officials to use more electric and plug-in hybrid cars as part of its drive to cut pollution by putting 5 million such vehicles on the road by 2020. President Xi Jinping has been urging government agencies to buy domestic brands, key ones among them being BYD Co Ltd and SAIC Motor Corp. Major Chinese cities including Beijing, Shanghai and Tianjin this year opened their markets to electric car makers based in other cities, as China moves to stamp out protectionist barriers within the country.  (Reporting by Kazunori Takada, Norihiko Shirouzu and Shanghai newsroom; Editing by Clarence Fernandez) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersEuropean Central Bank President Draghi speaks during the bank's monthly news conference in FrankfurtTwo years ago, euro zone government leaders hung on Mario Draghi's every word. Now the European Central Bank chief is struggling to get through to them. What has happened to 'Super Mario's' mojo? For financial markets, Draghi's words still count. But therein lies a problem - his promise in 2012 to do "whatever it takes" to save the euro has reassured investors and driven down government borrowing costs to near record lows. Euro zone governments, however, seem to have forgotten the caveat. Draghi delivered his famous "whatever it takes" speech, and backed it up with a plan to buy "unlimited" amounts of bonds issued by stricken euro members - but only after governments agreed to his call for a "fiscal compact" on tougher budget discipline. Now he is trying to cajole governments into agreeing a common approach to reforming their economies - a drive he sees as necessary to allow the stagnant euro zone to grow with verve. "The essential cohesion of the (European) Union depends on it," Draghi said in July, repeating the plea on Aug. 7. He is having a hard time selling the message. Like a groom dieting for his wedding day, many euro zone countries shaped up to gain entry to the euro zone, only to let themselves go once that big day was behind them. With their borrowing costs now low thanks to market reaction to Draghi's bond-buy offer, governments feel less pressure than at the height of the euro zone crisis to give him what he wants. Draghi is seeking "common governance over structural reforms" - or a coordinated push to shape up by, for example, liberalizing labor markets. Passing structural reforms is a tricky business at the best of times. But doing so under the banner of closer European cooperation is trickier still after voters' noisy 'no' to deeper EU integration at European parliamentary elections in May. There are also vested interests to contend with. France's new economy minister ran into trouble with trade unions on Thursday for suggesting companies be allowed exemptions to the French 35-hour week. "All these structural reforms involve challenging and defeating lobbies. They're small, but they're powerful - they have big voices," said Richard Portes, professor of economics at London Business School. Sharon Bowles, who worked with Draghi as chairwoman of the European Parliament's Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee until July, said his push for governments to coordinate reforms and "to learn to govern together" was too much too soon. "But I think he's got to keep pushing so that there is no slip back," she added.   CHANGE OF TACK The experience of the euro zone crisis has shown that only when faced with the prospect of 'divorce' - or the currency union breaking up - do governments get serious about budget tightening and reform. In Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi, Draghi faces a young man in 'dash-for-growth' mode who wants to reframe the debate. Renzi holds the rotating EU presidency for the second half of this year and has led calls to move from austerity to looser European budget rules. Draghi has cut him some slack. After months of pressing governments - principally France and Italy - to reform with little effect, the ECB president has changed tack. Speaking at the annual conference of central bankers in Jackson Hole, Wyoming, on Aug. 22, Draghi said it would be "helpful for the overall stance of policy" if fiscal policy could play a greater role alongside the ECB's monetary policy, adding: "and I believe there is scope for this". Translated from opaque central banker-speak, the comments indicate that having cut ECB interest rates to record lows and injected money into the economy to support a recovery, Draghi is now also ready to back fiscal stimulus over austerity. Fiscal stimulus could boost growth, facilitating reform. "It's much easier to introduce these (structural) reforms, to get people to accept these changes, if you have growth," said Portes. "And at the moment it's really tough, and everybody is out there trying to defend their special interests." In effect, Draghi extended a thinly veiled invitation to those countries with the room - such as Germany - to pursue a more expansionary fiscal policy as part of a three-pronged policy approach including ECB stimulus and structural reforms. Sarah Hewin, head of research for Europe at Standard Chartered, said Draghi was in a tough position because "there is very little leverage to accelerate this reform process." BARGAINING POWER Draghi is not having much luck with his reforms push - yet. German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble has insisted the ECB president was "over-interpreted" in suggesting that fiscal policy could play a greater role in promoting growth. In France, President Francois Hollande has reshuffled his government to boost his reform agenda but is struggling to galvanize his Socialists behind the plan. He also complains about the euro's strength, pressing the ECB to do more. In Italy, Renzi has yet to deliver break-through reforms, though he has made many promises and taken some small steps. Draghi has one trump card: quantitative easing (QE) - essentially printing money to buy assets. The ECB is preparing other stimulus measures, but markets have factored those in. It is the possibility of QE that excites them, and some governments - even if its merits are disputed. Departing from his Jackson Hole speech text, Draghi noted "significant declines at all horizons" in inflation expectations - a hint he is concerned, and may act. At 0.3 percent in August, euro zone inflation is far below the ECB's target of just under 2 percent. The ECB is not ready for QE yet, but signs of serious progress on reforms in France and Italy could smooth the way. "It may be hard to get a consensus within the (ECB Governing) Council to launch QE if the politicians are seen to be dragging their feet on reforms," said RBS economist Richard Barwell. "But with the bond market no longer threatening to tear the (euro zone) marriage apart and a growing consensus that the ECB will be forced to launch QE, Draghi is playing with a much weaker hand now. Politicians may be willing to call his bluff."   (Writing by Paul Carrel Editing by Jeremy Gaunt) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA pumpjack brings oil to the surface in the Monterey Shale NEW YORK (Reuters) - Morgan Stanley has quietly filed plans to build and run one of the first U.S. compressed natural gas export facilities, the first sign the bank is plunging back into physical commodity markets even as it sells its physical oil business. In a 23-page application to the U.S. Department of Energy's Office of Fossil Energy submitted in May, the Wall Street bank outlined a proposal to build, own and operate a compression and container loading facility near Freeport, Texas, which will have capacity to ship 60 billion cubic feet a year of compressed natural gas (CNG). While the size of the project is small compared with bigger liquefied natural gas (LNG) projects, the plan highlights the bank's ability to exploit its status as one of two Wall Street banks which are allowed to own and operate infrastructure for the manufacture, storage and operation of raw materials. The other one is Goldman Sachs. Their physical commodities activities were both "grandfathered" in when they became bank holding companies during the financial crisis more than five years ago. It also showcases a nimble and novel approach to exporting cheap domestic gas that could replace oil for power plants in Caribbean nations, as the United States pumps out record amounts of gas from its fracking revolution. The strategy skirts the multibillion-dollar upfront investments, long lead times and stringent application processes associated with building liquefied natural gas (LNG) terminals in favor of using readily-available containers and inexpensive container ships, in one of the first projects of its kind. The bank plans to ship CNG to countries with which the U.S. has free trade agreements, including the Dominican Republic, Panama, Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras and Costa Rica, according to the filing, which has not been previously reported. Those countries now mainly use oil for their power plants. Natural gas, which in the U.S. is often used to power trucks and buses, could provide a cheaper alternative. "You can collect U.S. gas at $4, it costs you $1 to ship it and gasify it, you bring it in at $5 and the equivalent that they are paying for fuel is $20 plus," said a person familiar with the project. "There is a lot of money to be made." A spokeswoman for Morgan Stanley declined to comment on the plan beyond the contents of the filing.   "VERY SIGNIFICANT" The boom in natural gas production in the U.S. has pushed prices down to $4.02 per million British thermal units. Natural gas contracts sold outside of the U.S. are often linked to higher-priced oil, which can inflate the cost of the gas. The U.S. Energy Information Administration projects total domestic natural gas production to hit 73.9 billion cubic feet per day, portending sustained low prices going forward. About 1,000 cubic feet of natural gas yields 1 million BTU. One barrel of oil is roughly equivalent to 5,800 cubic feet of natural gas. Billions of dollars are being poured into sophisticated export terminals for LNG, which require specialized equipment to cool the fuel to turn it into a liquid, as well as infrastructure to warm it at the receiving end, and take years to build. Cheniere Energy, for example, is investing $5.6 billion to expand its Sabine Pass terminal in Louisiana to export LNG, which is expected to be operational by 2015. The permitting process is also lengthy, with almost two dozen applications awaiting approval. By contrast, the source familiar with Morgan Stanley's plans estimated the cost of building the plant at $30 million to $50 million, with minimal investment needed on the receiving end. The bulk of the expenditure would be in buying thousands of containers to ship the gas. "They'll lease some land, buy some cranes," he said. "But you need literally thousands of these containers." It will take 12 months to complete the plant from the time Morgan Stanley receives final regulatory approvals, according to the filing. In November 2013, Florida-based energy company Emera CNG LLC applied to export 9.125 billion square feet a year; the status of its application is not clear and its lawyers and executives did not return calls for comment in time for publication. Andy Weissman, an energy lawyer at Haynes Boone in Washington, said the Morgan Stanley proposal was one of the first such CNG export projects he was aware of. "This could be something very significant, and if it was done successfully, there would undoubtedly be more of these," he said.   LOGISTICS NIGHTMARE The 50-acre proposed site in Texas is currently being inspected for suitability, according to a second source familiar with the plans. Freeport is a deepwater port on the Gulf of Mexico with a 45-foot draft, and already receives large container ships carrying tropical fruits imported by Dole and Chiquita. Morgan Stanley will lease pre-existing loading docks there, but plans to supply the containers itself, said the second source. According to the filing, gas would be piped into the proposed facility on an 11-mile third-party pipeline connected to the Brazoria Interconnector Gas Pipeline (BIG), which moves natural gas within Texas. Gas that travels in a pipeline is already compressed. After further compressing and containerizing the gas, Morgan Stanley can load the pressurized natural gas containers on standard container ships. "It's a logistics nightmare, putting [the gas] in containers and shipping them around - it's hard to do. Most people can't figure out how to make money doing it," said the second source.  "For once, the price of gas is low enough that it makes sense."   GRANDFATHER STATUS The project marks a new foray into the physical commodity market for Morgan Stanley after it sold the bulk of its physical oil operations, ending its long run as the biggest physical oil trader on Wall Street amid intense regulatory pressure. The assets included oil storage and transport company TransMontaigne Inc [TMG.UL] as well as its global physical oil trading operation, which it has agreed to sell to Russia's Rosneft. Thanks to a provision in the 15-year-old Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs alone among Wall Street banks enjoy "grandfather" status for any commodities activities they engaged in before 1997, although the provision has never been publicly interpreted by the banks' regulators at the Federal Reserve. It was unclear whether the bank was using its grandfathered status to undertake the natural gas plant. However, the appointment of two of its commodities executives as officers of the natural gas subsidiaries indicates they could have more day-to-day control than in an arm's-length investment done under merchant banking authority. The application is filed under the name Wentworth Gas Marketing LLC, a Delaware company with a business address in Purchase, New York, home to Morgan Stanley Capital Group, its commodities group. Wentworth Gas Marketing and another company, Wentworth Compression LLC, are both wholly owned by Wentworth Holdings LLC, which is indirectly owned by Morgan Stanley. The filing contains an agreement that Wentworth Compression will sell CNG to Wentworth Gas Marketing , which is signed by two Morgan Stanley commodities executives, Deborah Hart and Peter Sherk. Hart, whose LinkedIn profile lists her as Morgan Stanley's chief operating officer North American Power &amp; Gas, is a vice president of Wentworth Compression. Sherk, a managing director and co-head of commodities trading, is a vice president of Wentworth Gas Marketing. The Federal Reserve declined to comment on the natural gas project, and Morgan Stanley did not answer questions about what authority it was using to pursue it. The filing for the project landed just months before the bank bought Deutsche Bank's North American natural gas trading book.   (Reporting by Anna Louie Sussman, editing by Josephine Mason and John Pickering in New York) FREE AppDownload
@ericbeeboA slew of fresh ugly economic reports out of Europe has economists speculating that the European Central Bank will soon announce a further monetary stimulus to spur growth and stoke inflation. On Friday, we learned the unemployment rate in the 18-country eurozone was unchanged at 11.5% in July. Consumer prices climbed by just 0.3% in August, a slight tick down from 0.4% in July. Both stats, while in line with expectations, confirm worries that things aren't getting better in Europe. "Euro-area inflation fell closer to zero in August," said Bloomberg economists Maxime Sbaihi and Niraj Shah. Italy released inflation data that revealed consumer prices actually fell 0.2% year-over-year in August, a sharp deterioration from 0.0% in July. In other words, Italy is in deflation. "The releases add weight to speculation the European Central Bank could announce further monetary stimulus as soon as next week," argued Sbaihi and Shah. "This prospect is reinforced by a simultaneous release indicating that the euro area's third-largest economy [Italy] fell into deflation." Pantheon Macroeconomics' Claus Vistesen, however, approaches the inflation report with a bit more caution. "Price pressures in the eurozone remain very subdued, but it is important to note that energy prices are the main culprit for the very low inflation reading," Vistesen said. "The energy component plunged to -2.0% year-over-year in August from -1.0% in July, adding a significant drag to the headline number;  excluding energy, inflation would have been 0.6% year-over-year." Still, Vistesen believes that the numbers overall are ugly enough to force the ECB's hand. "Coupled with a recent lurch lower in market-based inflation expectations, it continues to indicate that more stimulus is forthcoming from the ECB this year," he said. "We stand ready to adjust our policy stance further," said Mario Draghi, president of the European Central Bank (ECB). Draghi made this statement at the Kansas City Fed's Economic Policy Symposium in Jackson Hole, Wyoming earlier this month. His speech came after the eurozone economies reported a string of of disappoint reports suggesting that growth had stalled and prices were falling. Based on recent moves in interest rates, it appears bond traders are betting more monetary stimulus is coming. As you can see below, the prospect for more intervention in the European bond markets has pushed yields in the eurozone to record lows. Yardeni Research FREE AppDownload
@ericbeeboA slew of fresh ugly economic reports out of Europe has economists speculating that the European Central Bank will soon announce a further monetary stimulus to spur growth and stoke inflation. On Friday, we learned the unemployment rate in the 18-country eurozone was unchanged at 11.5% in July. Consumer prices climbed by just 0.3% in August, a slight tick down from 0.4% in July. Both stats, while in line with expectations, confirm worries that things aren't getting better in Europe. "Euro-area inflation fell closer to zero in August," said Bloomberg economists Maxime Sbaihi and Niraj Shah. Italy released inflation data that revealed consumer prices actually fell 0.2% year-over-year in August, a sharp deterioration from 0.0% in July. In other words, Italy is in deflation. "The releases add weight to speculation the European Central Bank could announce further monetary stimulus as soon as next week," argued Sbaihi and Shah. "This prospect is reinforced by a simultaneous release indicating that the euro area's third-largest economy [Italy] fell into deflation." Pantheon Macroeconomics' Claus Vistesen, however, approaches the inflation report with a bit more caution. "Price pressures in the eurozone remain very subdued, but it is important to note that energy prices are the main culprit for the very low inflation reading," Vistesen said. "The energy component plunged to -2.0% year-over-year in August from -1.0% in July, adding a significant drag to the headline number;  excluding energy, inflation would have been 0.6% year-over-year." Still, Vistesen believes that the numbers overall are ugly enough to force the ECB's hand. "Coupled with a recent lurch lower in market-based inflation expectations, it continues to indicate that more stimulus is forthcoming from the ECB this year," he said. "We stand ready to adjust our policy stance further," said Mario Draghi, president of the European Central Bank (ECB). Draghi made this statement at the Kansas City Fed's Economic Policy Symposium in Jackson Hole, Wyoming earlier this month. His speech came after the eurozone economies reported a string of of disappoint reports suggesting that growth had stalled and prices were falling. Based on recent moves in interest rates, it appears bond traders are betting more monetary stimulus is coming. As you can see below, the prospect for more intervention in the European bond markets has pushed yields in the eurozone to record lows. Yardeni Research FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yves Herman Dutch Brigadier-General Nico Tak, head of NATO's crisis management centre, attends a news conference at Supreme Headquarters Allied Powers Europe (SHAPE) in Mons August 28, 2014. It's Friday! Here's what people will be talking about.  1. NATO is holding an emergency meeting on Friday over the crisis in eastern Ukraine, estimating that more 1,000 Russian soldiers have invaded the region.  2. Russian president Vladamir Putin praised the success of pro-Russian separatists fighting in Ukraine, while asking for the release of trapped Ukrainian forces.  3. The White House is taking heat after President Barack Obama said in a press briefing that the administration does not have a strategy yet for dealing with ISIS.  4. The World Health Organization said the Ebola virus could infect more than 20,000 people before the outbreak is controlled.  5. Three million Syrians have been forced to flee their homes in what the UN says has "become the biggest humanitarian emergency of our era." 6. Iceland's Bardarbunga volcano began erupting early Friday, though the small fissure appears to have died down. 7. A major landslide in China's mountainous southwestern region on Friday killed at least 14 people. 8. Malaysia airlines said its slashing 30% of its workforce, or 6,000 jobs, in a drastic cost-cutting measure.   9. Tesco, Britain's biggest retailer, cut its profit outlook to £2.4 billion from £2.8 billion, sending its share price tumbling by more than 8% on the news.  10. For the second time this week, a plane was diverted due to an argument over reclining seats between two passengers.  And finally... California surfers are rushing to take advantage of humongous waves generated by a hurricane in the Pacific.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFiat logo is seen on a Fiat vehicle displayed outside Chrysler World Headquarters during the FCA Investors Day in Auburn HillsBy Stephen Jewkes and Valentina Za MILAN (Reuters) - Fiat  said on Friday its merger with Chrysler was on track to go ahead as planned in October since it did not expect a 500 million euro ($658.3 million) cap on the money it set aside to pay off any dissenting shareholders would be breached. Chief Executive Sergio Marchionne wants to incorporate the two carmakers into a Dutch-registered company called Fiat Chrysler Automobiles (FCA), paving the way for a U.S. stock market listing, key to help fund an ambitious investment plan. In a statement, Fiat said it was finishing a count of the number of shares for which cash exit rights had been validly exercised and would give final details by Sept. 4. Based on data received so far, Fiat said it calculated that the 500 million euro limit has not been exceeded. "Fiat has determined that even if all remaining unmatched notices and unmatched confirmations were to be matched, the maximum number of shares for which cash exit rights have been validly exercised will yield an aggregate exposure that is below the cap," it said. The creation of FCA and the planned October flotation would be delayed if enough dissenting shareholders decide to sell their stock, exercising a legal right triggered by the carmaker's decision to move its registered offices away from Italy. The carmaker said it expected the merger to be completed on time at around mid-October. Under the terms of the merger, any dissenting investors can sell their shares for 7.727 euros each. "The period for any creditor opposition to be submitted will expire on October 4, 2014," Fiat said, adding it did not see any risk of prejudice to creditors from the merger.  (1 US dollar = 0.7595 euro)  (Editing by David Holmes) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Aly SongInvestors look at computer screens showing stock information at a brokerage house in ShanghaiSHANGHAI (Reuters) - Chinese fund managers will cut the proportion of their portfolios invested in stocks over the next three months, following July's upward trend, as hopes for a quick economic recovery falter, a Reuters poll shows. "China's recovery is not at all stable. It is still possible that things will get worse, so market sentiment is volatile," a fund manager based in south China said. Chinese fund managers reduced their suggested equity allocation for the next three months to 77.2 percent from 81.9 percent a month earlier, according to a poll of nine China-based fund managers conducted this week. Funds sharply increased their suggested bond allocation to 10.1 percent from 4.5 percent a month ago, while lowering their cash weightings to 12.7 percent from 13.6 percent in July. Growth in China's vast factory sector slowed to a three-month low in August as output and new orders moderated, a preliminary private survey conducted by HSBC showed last week, heightening concerns about increasing softness in the economy. Eight of the fund managers said their most serious short-term concern was the cooling of the domestic real estate market, which could have knock-on effects on the financial system and potentially cause a spike in bad debts. This month, suggested allocations to financial services and real estate fell sharply, while consumer and electronic technology stocks were in favor. The average recommended allocation for financial services fell to 14.8 percent from 18.5 percent last month, while recommended weightings for real estate shares dropped to 6.1 percent from 10 percent in July. For electronics, the average recommended allocation rose to 16.1 percent from 14.4 percent last month, as weightings for consumer goods rose to 23.7 percent from 20.4 percent in July.   (Reporting by David Lin and Engen Tham; Editing by Jacqueline Wong) FREE AppDownload
