FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Federal ReserveBoard of Governors meeting, January 1, 1922The policymaking arm of the Federal Reserve (Fed), the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meets this week (Tuesday and Wednesday, March 18–19, 2014), with Fed Chair Janet Yellen leading the meeting for the first time. At the conclusion of the meeting, Yellen will also hold her first post-FOMC press conference as Fed Chair, and the FOMC will release a new set of economic and interest rate projections. On the policy side, financial markets do not expect anything new from this week’s FOMC meeting. The Fed has made it clear that there is a relatively high hurdle to suspend, speed up, or reduce its plan to taper quantitative easing (QE) by $10 billion at each of the eight FOMC meetings this year. If followed, the plan would see the Fed exit quantitative easing altogether in the fourth quarter of 2014. Although still a long way off, and currently off the stock market’s radar for now, three key topics on what the Fed does after QE ends will see an increasing focus by market participants in the coming months: A great deal of that conversation will revolve around the FOMC’s unwieldy post-meeting statement, an item we have long considered to be at the top of Janet Yellen’s to-do list early in her term as Chair of the Fed. The statement released at the end of the January 28–29, 2014 FOMC meeting was 867 words long and covered six paragraphs. In a world where many of us communicate in text messages and on social media using as few as 140 characters, 876 words seems a bit much, especially since most Fed statements have been around 100–200 words [Figure 1]. LPL FinancialIn early to mid-2007, prior to the onset of the financial crisis and Great Recession, the FOMC statements contained around 150 to 200 words across five paragraphs. The first time the FOMC released a statement after an FOMC meeting was in January 1994. That statement was 99 words long. During the 2001 recession in the aftermath of the bursting of the tech bubble and concerns around deflation, the FOMC statements were generally between 175 and 200 words long. 10 years ago, the March 2004 FOMC statement was 200 words. While more complex economic, financial, and market conditions brought on by the financial crisis and Great Recession clearly warranted a more complex FOMC statement, the length and complexity of recent FOMC statements have become an issue for those inside and outside the Fed. With the worst of the financial crisis and the Great Recession in the rear view mirror, markets seeking some additional clarity about the path of monetary policy in the years ahead are now looking for the Fed to simplify the statement, perhaps as soon as this week. A failure by the Fed to simplify the FOMC statement may lead to even more market uncertainty (and ultimately more volatility) around Fed policy in the months and quarters ahead. In December 2012, the FOMC modified the statement it released at the end of its policy meeting to include the following language: ...the Committee decided to keep the target range for the federal funds rate at 0 to 1/4 percent and currently anticipates that this exceptionally low range for the federal funds rate will be appropriate at least as long as the unemployment rate remains above 6-1/2 percent, inflation between one and two years ahead is projected to be no more than a half percentage point above the Committee’s 2 percent longer-run goal, and longer-term inflation expectations continue to be well anchored. This passage, which contains the oft discussed “thresholds” for keeping rates low has remained part of the statement ever since, and has become known as the Fed’s “forward guidance” on rates and monetary policy. As we have noted many times in recent months, forward guidance is likely to replace quantitative easing as the Fed’s main policy tool. With QE likely ending by the end of this year, the Fed has to begin to prepare markets for what that forward guidance will look like, especially since the unemployment rate (at 6.7%), is so close to the Fed’s threshold of 6.5%. The Fed has several options when it comes to the reworking of its forward guidance on rates, and how this guidance is communicated to the markets and the public in the FOMC statement:<U+0083> Our view is that the Fed is likely to pursue the first course of action noted above. Whichever course the Fed chooses to pursue with its forward guidance (and there are many beyond the ones detailed here), the market is also at a point where it will want to know—once the Fed decides to raise rates—at what pace and over what time period rates will move higher. This suggests more emphasis on the so-called FOMC dots, which are made public four times a year (including at this week’s meeting as part of the Summary of Economic Projections), and aim to capture the views of each of the FOMC members on both the appropriate timing and pace of interest rate hikes. Whatever the Fed chooses to do this week, we seem to be on the cusp of a new era of Fed communication after more than five years of more and more wordy and more and more complex communications from the FOMC. Financial markets, of course, do not like abrupt change and the uncertainty it brings. Although we don’t expect any abrupt change from the Fed this week, the transition from the Fed’s easy monetary policy over the past six and a half years to a more normal policy will likely be accompanied by bouts of market volatility, as witnessed during the run up in market interest rates caused by the “taper scare” in the spring and summer of 2013. Thus, the Fed faces a difficult task on the communication front over the next several months and quarters as it continues to prepare markets for the inevitable unwinding of all the monetary stimulus now in the system. This article originally appeared at LPL Financial.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Issei KatoWorkers load a container onto a truck at a port in Tokyo April 18, 2013.Japan just published some disappointing trade numbers. Exports climbed by just 9.8%, missing expectations for a 12.5% increase. Imports increased by 9.0%, which was higher than the 7.2% increase expected. These numbers made for an ¥800 billion trade deficit, which was much wider than the ¥600 billion expected by economists. Japan's policymakers led by Prime Minister Shinzo Abe have been pushing easy monetary and fiscal policies in their efforts to stimulate growth and fan inflation. "Abenomics," as it's called, has also come with a weaker yen, which was intended to make exports more attractive to overseas customers. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mary F. CalvertFederal Reserve Chairwoman Janet Yellen.On Wednesday, the Federal Open Market Committee concludes its first policy meeting under the leadership of new Federal Reserve Chairwoman Janet Yellen. The FOMC began winding down it's quantitative easing program of large-scale asset purchases in December, taking the monthly pace of purchases of mortgage-backed securities and U.S. Treasuries to $75 billion from $85 billion. In January, the FOMC reduced the monthly pace further to $65 billion, and of the 81 market economists polled by Bloomberg News, 78 of them expect the FOMC to make another $10 billion reduction in March. Beyond "tapering," the next big question is what the Committee will decide with regard to its forward guidance on the likely future path of short-term interest rates. The current guidance dictates that the FOMC will keep rates pinned near zero until "well past the time that the unemployment rate declines below 6.5%, especially if projected inflation continues to run below the Committee's 2% longer-run goal." In recent months, as the unemployment rate has tumbled toward 6.5%, Fed officials have sought to downplay the importance of the 6.5% threshold, saying the headline unemployment rate does not sufficiently reflect the true health of the labor market, and that other indicators, such as long-term unemployment and part-time employment, offer evidence of significant slack. Despite the already-ambiguous wording of the Committee's current guidance and recent proclamations that the 6.5% threshold doesn't really mean much anyways, the consensus view on Wall Street seems to be that the FOMC will modify the language of the guidance to stress its "qualitative" nature. "Citi economists suggest that the language could shift to 'rate hikes are unlikely until well past the time that asset purchases are completed', the well past being a signal that a late Q3/early Q4 end to QE would have be followed by a period of several meetings before policy hikes were on the table," says Englander. "It would be a very hawkish surprise for the Fed not to change the language of forward guidance away from the 6.5%. This would suggest that the FOMC could not find agreement on a language change, and would be viewed as suggesting as more vigorous loyal opposition." The minutes of the most recent FOMC meeting revealed that as of the end of January, Committee members had not yet come to an agreement on how to proceed: Participants agreed that, with the unemployment rate approaching 6-1/2 percent, it would soon be appropriate for the Committee to change its forward guidance in order to provide information about its decisions regarding the federal funds rate after that threshold was crossed. A range of views was expressed about the form that such forward guidance might take. Some participants favored quantitative guidance along the lines of the existing thresholds, while others preferred a qualitative approach that would provide additional information regarding the factors that would guide the Committee's policy decisions. Several participants suggested that risks to financial stability should appear more explicitly in the list of factors that would guide decisions about the federal funds rate once the unemployment rate threshold is crossed, and several participants argued that the forward guidance should give greater emphasis to the Committee's willingness to keep rates low if inflation were to remain persistently below the Committee's 2 percent longer-run objective. Additional proposals included relying to a greater extent on the Summary of Economic Projections as a communications device and including in the guidance an indication of the Committee's willingness to adjust policy to lean against undesired changes in financial conditions. Moreover, unseasonally harsh winter weather is believed to have put a damper on economic activity in the first few months of 2014, causing those betting on higher interest rates to close out their trades for now and wait until an acceleration in economic activity materializes again. Now, with market interest rates trading in line with the FOMC's staff forecasts for the likely path of the fed funds rate, there may ultimately be little impetus for the Committee to make any changes to the language of its statement this month. However, the FOMC will also release updated staff forecasts following this meeting, which market participants will be paying closer attention to going forward, regardless of what the Committee decides to do with forward guidance. "The shift to qualitative guidance will put more focus on the Fed’s Summary of Economic Projections (SEP), particularly the 'dots' that reflect participants expectations for the funds rate at the end of 2015, 2016 and over the longer term," says Michelle Gerard, chief economist at RBS. "Movements in the 'dots' will provide further insight as to how thinking among FOMC participants has evolved both with respect to the timing of the first rate hike and also the pace of tightening after lift-off. In December, the median forecasts for the year-end fed funds forecasts came down by 25 basis points in both 2015 (from 1.0% to 0.75%) and 2016 (from 2.0% to 1.75%). It is possible (though not necessarily likely at this point in time) that December's move lower could get reversed in March." Gerard says the new SEP projections are unlikely to project an earlier or faster path of rate hikes given the recent weather-induced swoon in economic activity. Along those lines, market participants will also be watching closely for any indication that Committee members think there is more to the recent slowdown than just transitory factors, like the weather. The FOMC will release its decision in a statement at 2 PM ET on Wednesday afternoon. Janet Yellen's first FOMC press conference as Fed chairwoman ensues at 2:30 PM. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Sergei KarpukhinPedestrians walk past a Raiffeisen Bank branch in Moscow May 19, 2013.Over the weekend, the Ukrainian region of Crimea held a referendum about the option of secession and unification with Russia. Almost 97% of the voters support secession, but the outcome has not been recognized by leaders of the European Union, who on Monday agreed on a first wave of sanctions against 21 officials deemed responsible for the vote. The Russian response and the following EU moves will determine how the early seeds of this geopolitical crisis will blossom and what the consequences will be on the European economy. This post takes a look at the financial exposure of European banks to Ukraine and Russia, an issue that until now has been relatively less debated compared to trade and energy exposures. BIS and BruegelBIS data for September 2013 shows reporting European banks had claims in the amount of $156 billion in Russia, against less than $40 billion of the US (Figure 1). Within the EU, France is certainly the most exposed, at $51 billion (see Figure 3). Italy comes second with $28.6 billion, followed by Germany at $23.7 billion, the UK at $19 billion, the Netherlands at $17.6 billion and Sweden at about $14 billion. BIS and Bruegel Individual bank-level data on operations abroad are not always publicly available, but a recent report by the Economist Intelligence Unit compiled a list of the top 15 banks operating in Russia, finding that Raiffeisen Bank International (Austria) and UniCredit (Italy-Austria) are the European banks that could be more at risk in Ukraine. Operations in the country are relatively small. Both banks have operations for an amount of 5-5.5bn of USD in assets at the beginning of 2014 and relatively to the size of group assets these figures are very small. According to EIU, the Ukrainian operations constitute about 3% of total assets of the Austrian parent company for Raiffeisen, and less than 0.5% of total assets for Unicredit). BNP Paribas is also present in Ukraine, with operations limited at 3bn USD.   The exposure of European banks to Russia is significantly more sizable. Table 1, taken from the same EIU analysis, shows that Italy, France and Austria have a non-negligible financial stake in Russia. The most exposed is Unicredit Bank, with 24bn USD (or 2% of the total group assets). Rosbank, the Russian subsidiary of French Société Génerale, follows suit with 22bn USD (or 1% of the total group assets). Austrian Raiffaisenbank has Russian operations for 20bn USD, which correspond to a worrying 12% of the total group assets. Table 1 – Top 15 banks operating in Russia (1st October 2013) Bank Ownership Total Assets (US $mn) Sberbank Local 466,792 VTB Local 148,837 Gazprombank Local 100,703 VTB-24 Local 54,547 Rosselkholzbank Local 53936 Bank Moskvy Local 51715 Alfa-Bank Local 42777 UniCredit Bank UniCredit, Italy-Austria 24,394 Rosbank SocGen, France 22,375 Promsvyazbank Local 22,181 Nomo-Bank Local 22,180 Raiffaisenbank Raiffaisen Bank Int.l, Austria 20,092 Bank UralSib Local 13,104 Moskovsky Kreditny Bank Local 12,639 Rossiya Local 12,418 SOURCE: Economist Intelligence Unit According to data reported in the New York Times, SocGen Russia made operating income of 239 million euros last year, despite a 41 percent jump in losses from bad debts. The bank said it had 13.5 billion euros of outstanding loans in Russia and deposits of 8.5 billion in the country at the end of 2013. UniCredit said revenues from Russia were 372 million euros in the fourth quarter of 2013, up 80 percent from a year earlier, whereas Raiffaisen made 507 million euros in the first nine months of last year. European banks operating in Russia could be affected by the present situation in several ways. In the early phase of the Ukrainian crisis, the main worry was that the country could be led to default on its sovereign debt, a significant part of which is held as assets by the banks. At the moment, this scenario seems to be less likely to materialize and markets have reacted positively to the negotiations of a programme with the IMF and Europe. Nevertheless, the effect of the geopolitical turmoil on the regional financial markets has proved to be potentially large, and the exchange rates have also been volatile recently. The National Central Banks of both Russia and Ukraine had to take significant measures already to counteract the risk of sharp currency depreciation. For European banks operating in the region, devaluation reduces the value of the assets they hold in local currency. Moreover, as pointed out by EIU, the effect on default rates on loans (especially those in foreign currency) could be a significant risk for these banks. A sensitivity analysis conducted by Morgan Stanley (European Banks: looking at Russia-related risks) suggests that earnings risk would be limited. For 2014, earnings risk is estimated at 7% for Unicredit and 3% for Societé Generale. The impact could raise to 13% and 7% respectively, in a more negative scenario. The sanctions imposed by the international community are also an element of potential risk, if they were to limit in any way the operations of European banks in the country. The sanctions imposed by the EU today are limited to specific political and military personalities, so are unlikely to affect the general operation of European Banks in Russia. But if the crisis were to intensify and/or if Europe were to introduce stronger and broader-based sanctions, these banks could be affected. On top of that, an element of potential uncertainty is linked to the role that Russia has had (and can still potentially have) in the management of crisis in Cyprus. Cyprus has benefitted from Russian aid, and the management of (dubious) Russian deposits in the country has been an issue of fierce discussion one year ago, when the banking crisis turned the small island into a geopolitical hot spot. The possibility that this geopolitical crisis spills over from the Eastern Europe to the (closer) Mediterranean and even the core of the EU cannot to be ruled out. An escalation of the sanctions game could play out against Europe’s financial system. It’s far from clear which barrel holds the bullet over Ukraine and Crimea. FREE AppDownload
 REUTERS/Mike SegarFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Retirement Confidence Is Bouncing Back But Only For A Few (FA Mag) Many have warned that the U.S. isn't prepared for a looming retirement crisis. A new survey from Employee Benefit Research Institute (EBRI) suggests that retirement confidence is actually improving. 18% of those surveyed are "confident of a comfortable retirement," reports Kathy Lynch at FA Mag, up from 13% last year. But the increased confidence was largely true in households with incomes over $75,000, "and was also strongly correlated to respondent’s participation in a retirement plan."  "In fact, workers reporting they or their spouse have money in a defined contribution plan or IRA or have a defined benefit plan from a current or previous employer are more than twice as likely as those without any of these plans to be very confident (24 percent with a plan vs. 9 percent without a plan),” Jack VanDerhei, EBRI research director said. That being said, 35% said they have not saved any money for retirement. Daily costs, existing debt, and low income were cited as key reasons that workers couldn't save enough. How To Make The Most Of Meetings With Investment Managers (The Wall Street Journal)  It's common for investment managers to pitch financial products to advisors. But often these blind pitch meetings end up being a waste of time for everyone concerned, writes Michael Gauthier, CEO of Arizona-based Strategic Income Group in a new WSJ column. To overcome this hurdle, Gauthier writes that his firm has started setting aside a week, every 90 days, when 10 investment managers visit the office to make their pitches. "Before the meeting we send each company an agenda that outlines what we're interested in hearing about, as well as information about our clients' current investments," he writes. "One important improvement we've made to these quarterly meetings over the past five years is to open them up to current and prospective clients. We send out postcards with scheduling information a month or so in advance, and clients may attend the meetings that interest them. …It's a practice that has brought us new clients and created a lot of client loyalty," Gauthier writes.  A Breakdown Of S&amp;P 500 Company Costs Since 1994 (Goldman Sachs)  Corporate profit margins are at record highs. Some argue that profit margins can fall going forward, others argue that they have room to expand further.  "Firms have enjoyed a secular increase in the productivity of labor and capital as well as technological innovations such as real-time inventory management, reducing both fixed and variable costs," Goldman Sachs' Amanda Sneider wrote in a note to clients. "Low inflation in terms of commodity inputs and labor costs have been tailwinds. Taxes and interest rates have never been more favorable for the profitability of firms." Here's a look at how each of the components of the income statement has impacted margins. Goldman SachsWhy Investors Should Avoid Talking To Management (Investment News)  Institutional investors typically meet with management for a deeper insight into a company's strategy, but Eric Heyman, portfolio manager of the Olstein Strategic Opportunities Fund, says his firm does not. "Unlike most investors, we steer clear of such meetings, for two essential reasons: to reduce the emotional aspects of investment decisions and to avoid the short-term outlook that often underscores earnings guidance," he writes in Investment News.  16 Competing Factors That Could Move Markets In The Months To Come (LPL Financial)  "In three of the past four years the S&amp;P 500 raced higher in March only to reverse all of those gains in a pullback of about 10% that began in late March or April," writes Jeff Kleintop at LPL Financial. With that in mind he points out the sixteen factors that could move markets in coming months. Each of these sixteen factors fall into one of four factors, economy, policy, fundamentals and sentiment. LPL Financial FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsBorschtThe recent activity between Ukraine and Russia has brought volatility to the capital markets. Indeed, Russia’s activities in Crimea has beleaguered equities and the currency ever since the crisis first sent the benchmark MICEX index down almost 11 percent on March 3. As the U.S. and European Union announced fresh sanctions against Russia on Monday, the index had fallen 14.7 percent so far this year. But Credit Suisse analysts do not consider the sudden decline a broad-based buying opportunity, saying that the potential reward is outweighed not just by the risks of the crisis deepening but by more prosaic concerns as well: namely, the Russian economy isn’t in very good shape. They suggest this despite what can be described as ‘mouth-watering’ valuation differentials: Russian equities are trading at a 51 percent discount versus emerging markets as a whole. That’s close to the 56 percent discount Russian markets registered at the worst point of the global financial crisis, Credit Suisse analysts Alexander Redman and Arun Sai said in a report entitled “Russian Equities: Mispriced Either Way.” Russian equities are also trading at a 59 percent discount versus emerging markets on a trailing price-to-book-value basis, the largest gap since the 80 percent discount posted during the 1998 Russian financial crisis, according to Redman and Sai. On Monday, U.S. and European Union officials announced travel bans and asset freezes against some Russian and Ukrainian officials believed to have played a role in a Sunday referendum in which Crimeans voted to leave Ukraine and become part of Russia. But Russian stocks gained ground as markets appeared to have interpreted the new sanctions as mild because they only affected individuals rather than hurting international trade or the Russian economy. Accordingly, the MICEX index rose 3.9 percent to 1,285 points on Monday, its first rally in five days. The ruble, which depreciated 2.1 percent in the first two weeks of March, strengthened 1 percent to 36.27 against the dollar. The rally could prove short-lived, however, as President Barack Obama also threatened more severe sanctions if Russia continued to escalate tensions with Ukraine. Former Russian Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin said last week that financial sanctions against Russia could trigger capital outflows of $50 billion per quarter, or an annualized 9.4 percent of GDP. The only time Russia has reported outflows of a greater magnitude was in the fourth quarter of 2008, when capital flight caused the currency to weaken to 41 rubles against the central bank’s target basket comprised of the U.S. dollar and euro. If Kudrin’s projected outflows come to pass, Credit Suisse thinks the currency could weaken to 44 rubles against the dollar-euro basket, down from 42.70today. In other words, “Russia” may not be a buy. But for the adventurous investor, there are a number of individual equities trading at depressed valuations that just might be. Credit Suisse’s report lists a handful of stocks that are trading at less than 80 percent of their five-year average forward earnings multiple and at least 15 percent below their 200-day moving average price. They include Outperform-rated LSR Group Limited and Etalon Group (both real estate companies), Dixy Group and Magnit (food retailing), Globaltrans (transportation), M Video (retail), TMK (energy) and Sberbank (financial). For these stocks, this could prove to be a solid buying opportunity. Then again, it might not be. That’s the thing about the future: you can never know what it’s going to be until it happens. The Financialist is a digital magazine presented by Credit Suisse that looks at the trends and ideas that drive markets, businesses and economies. FREE AppDownload
Sotheby's International RealtyThe Hamptons summer season stretches just 14 weeks from Memorial Day to Labor Day, but renters can spend some serious dough in that brief period. While many Hamptons rentals cost six figures or more for a summer, some take it to another level. This home, a 12-bedroom Southampton estate on 10 acres with an indoor pool and grass tennis court, is one example. It was initially listed for $1.3 million for Memorial Day to Labor Day, making it the priciest rental out east. But even with a price cut to $950,000, it's still one of the most expensive Hamptons houses still available. Michaela Keszler at Douglas Elliman and Harald Grant at Sotheby's International Realty are handling the rental. FREE AppDownload
FinVizWheat!Wheat futures are on a two-month-long tear, and are now back to $0.69/bu, a level not seen since last fall. This is a 25% increase since the beginning of February. The reason? Ukraine.  We've mentioned this before, but Ukraine and Russia both comprise an enormous chunk of global wheat exports. This is arguably the market that's been most directly impacted by the turmoil in that region. So as long as it it remains a hotspot, expect volatility to continue. Below is a chart from Morgan Stanley showing Ukraine's presence in the global grain markets. Morgan Stanley   FREE AppDownload
RippleMost people know Bitcoin as a digital currency, with a value that has fluctuated wildly over the past six months. But there's more to Bitcoin than just the currency.  Bitcoin has gotten an equal amount of attention for its novel technology. You don't need a third party to perform a transaction (although as a practical matter many now use one of the various consumer wallet sites). All transactions are noted on a ledger, meaning you're no longer subject to the-check-is-in-the-mail risk. And unlike a real bank, Bitcoin is basically neutral on the price and time that it takes to process an overseas or large transaction. Even Goldman Sachs analysts — who in a recent report otherwise came off pretty bearish on the currency aspect of Bitcoin — said the technology could prove useful. So it was only a matter of time before someone carved out all the meaty parts of Bitcoin while leaving the gristle for others.  Enter Ripple, which indeed captures the three aforementioned elements of the cryptocurrency's underlying structure. But it does more than that: Its technology allows users to execute a transaction from any currency into another simultaneously, while eliminating exchange-rate risk. Users are also able to hang onto their fiat, rather than having to separately purchase Bitcoin. This helps eliminate the security problems experienced by some Bitcoin wallet service users.  And whereas Bitcoin transactions take at least 10 minutes to confirm, Ripple confirmations are instant, thanks to its use of a consensus algorithm; the Ripple network is a closed system, so only approved "nodes," which would approve the transaction, can access it.  "Bitcoin solved the double-spend problem," Ripple CEO Chris Larsen told BI recently. "The key problem was payment confirmation without central clearing. Bitcoin's solution was ingenious but wasteful — it's fairly slow, and you can't put other things on it. It's premised on forcing the world to adopt to Bitcoin, which is like making everyone switch to Esperanto." Susan Athey, a Stanford economist and paid adviser to Ripple, explained another key distinction between Bitcoin and Ripple. While the former is based on a community, the latter is designed to solve problems of commerce. "Bitcoin is sort of an open-source movement that is bootstrapping and getting big through the enthusiasm of a whole variety of different communities. It's a user-driven phenomenon. That's a great way to get a platform going, but another way to build a platform is to solve problem of a particular customer extremely well, and if it's a large customer, then all in one go you get a lot of adoption and utilization. Then smaller users follow." She continued: "With Bitcoin, we know it's amazing, and they can both be very effective. But what parts of [Bitcoin] are really necessary? Do I really need the mining ... the anonymity [is problematic] ... what is the essence of the system?" Ripple's pedigree is impressive. Google Ventures and Andreessen Horowitz are both backers. The CEO of China-based IDG Capital, which invests in some of China's largest tech firms, said upon completing his round: "We are excited about the prospect for a global payments system that powers instant, free, and secure transactions in any currency." It's extremely early in Ripple's life span, as far as widespread use goes. The basic structure of the technology is a decade old, but Ripple Labs (originally known as OpenCoin Inc.), the corporation that now owns Ripple, was only launched in 2012. And they only opened it up for developers to build on top of last fall. Though at $1.4 billion Ripple has the No. 2 market cap in the digital currency world, that's only because all Ripple coins have been 'pre-mined,' meaning all the coins that will ever come into existence have been created, by Ripple itself. (And again, the coins are largely perfunctory for users simply looking to use the network to send payments — they're basically just temporary vehicles for your fiat).  As a result, it's hard to find folks running Ripple. The largest is actually Bitstamp, now the world's largest dollar-traded Bitcoin exchange. This appears to show that the two technologies can coexist (if it wasn't clear already, you can also send Bitcoin over the Ripple network). Another is SnapSwap, an online transaction gateway. Founder Denis Kiselev told us what he saw on Ripple: "If you look at the cryptocoin universe available now, you see whole families of cryptocurrencies derived from Bitcion — they use the same technology," he said. "Ripple is the only one that's substantially different, with a different mechanism of transaction confirmation, that allows you to do instant transactions across currencies, and only cryptocurrencies. I see it as a major step forward, a major advancement."  You can watch the Ripple network live here » But Athey outlined clear uses of Ripple that are much harder to articulate for Bitcoin. One is that whole banking networks could be created based on trust using Ripple.  "Local banks could agree to only talk to other customers of their own, check their identities to know if they're a legitimate business, to know they're not in North Korea," she said. "That is potentially a much more palatable way for bank to enter the system. They have a lot of control on who they interact." The other is that the cost of tracking payments can go down precipitously. "Companies are spending a lot of money for keeping ledgers of international currency flows. That's a business service. Some firms do that themselves, some hire external service providers, to help manage international flows. It's a big investment that's very important, and these systems are very complicated." Ripple's Larsen said they have begun preliminary discussions with mega financial institutions to see about using it as their primary "payment rail" for executing in-house transactions.  "If you were executing a transaction involving all kinds of hedge funds, a path could be directed that instead of 20 hops would take one instant hop," he said. Again, it's still early, but definitely something to watch. FREE AppDownload
AP PhotoNew York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman speaks during a news conference Monday, Oct. 28, 2013, at City Hall in Philadelphia.This morning, New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman declared war on high-frequency traders, or HFTs, and what he called the "fundamentally unfair – and potentially illegal – situations that give elite groups of traders early access to market-moving information at the expense of the rest of the market." Of course stopping this activity would require major changes — not just on the part of traders but also on the part of newswires that give HFTs an early leg up on information, and exchanges like the NASDAQ and the New York Stock Exchange. To his credit, Schneiderman went to war armed with at least one strong suggestion — one that could drive exchanges completely up a wall. "[S]tock exchanges as well as the Securities and Exchange Commission and other regulators should review the feasibility of the recommendations recently put forward by economists at the University of Chicago School of Business – an institution renowned for its commitment to free markets," Schneiderman said Tuesday. The recommendations he refers to are actually a radical new way to match stock buyers with sellers called "frequent batch auctions." Professors Eric Budish, Peter Cramton, and John Shim laid it out in a paper titled "The High-Frequency Trading Arms Race: Frequent Batch Auctions as a Market Design Response" [PDF] in Decemeber. Instead of trading stocks constantly throughout the day, with this method exchanges would sell them in auctions at intervals, such as once per second or once every tenth of a second. Traders would not be able to see the prices at each auction; rather, the exchanges would collect the orders at the time of auction and execute them where bids match offers, thus consistently finding the right price without manipulation, according to the professors. The hope is that this would reduce the arms race going on at high-frequency trading firms and the constant need to come up with faster and faster ways to trade, all of which complicate systems and gum up communication between exchanges and can, many say, cause flash crashes. "I don't know if it would work," said Themis Trading's Sal Arnuk, an advocate of slowing down the speed of trading on stock exchanges. "It would certainly find resistance, as the majority of volume (not the same as liquidity) depends on arbitrage of the plumbing [communication between exchanges], and is such a substantial part of the exchanges’ revenues." In other words, exchanges may not want to implement a change that would reduce the number of orders (filled or not filled) that go through their pipelines, because they make money on the orders they get. Arnuk added: "I think that many tools are in place that, if regulated properly, allow all players to coexist peacefully. HFT plumbing arbitrage would arbitrage itself into extinction without payment for order flow like maker taker and retail order buying." That's one issue. Another is what market-research firm Nanex CEO Eric Hunsader calls "the show-stopper," the fact that exchanges would have to invest in rewriting their systems to deal with a new batch auction regime. That rewriting comes with additional problems beyond just cost. Lev Lesokhin, of software risk analysis firm CAST, told Business Insider that putting the brakes on the "unconstrained" race for speed is long overdue but that rewriting exchange systems to deal with auctions could make software more complex. "If I have to build my systems to work with that kind of regiment, it makes my systems that much more complicated," said Lesokhin. "Now I have to think about — 'What does that mean in terms of trading?' ... If I'm trading, I'm going to want to know when is that [auction] second is happening because there's value to me to wait until that very last sliver of time before the trading happens." In other words, traders could still want to wait until that last brief period before the auction happens to place their order. That in itself could lead to a whole new arms race. "I think there's going to be ways to get around that speed limit," Lesokhin said. "And it's going to make systems more complex. This is problem with regulation. Once you think about how it's really going to get deployed, it's not as clear as regulators would like." Remember, there's always the law of unintended consequences. FREE AppDownload
J. Crew/FacebookJapan's Fast Retailing is no longer in talks to buy J. Crew, according to reports by Reuters and the Wall Street Journal. Fast Retailing, which is worth a staggering $36 billion, approached J. Crew about purchasing the company late last month. J. Crew was seeking as much as $5 billion in the deal, the Journal reported at the time, citing sources close to the deal. But the talks ended shortly after they became public, according to the Journal's sources.  "While it isn't clear exactly why the talks broke down, some of the people said the fact that they became public played a role," the Journal's Mike Spector reports. Fast Retailing is the parent company of Uniqlo, which has exploded in the past decade, becoming Asia's biggest clothing retailer. The company also owns clothing brands Theory, J Brand, Comptoir Des Cotonniers and National Standard. We will update when we have more information.  FREE AppDownload
The NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc.SolarCity just reported its Q4 financial results, and at first glance the numbers don't look good. The company reported an adjusted loss of $0.46 per share. This was actually narrower than the $0.58 expected by analysts. This was on revenue of $47.3 million, which was higher than the $45.1 million expected. Guidance, however, was a bit weaker than expected. Management expected to report a Q1 loss of $0.70-$0.80 per share. Analysts were looking for a $0.50 per share loss. Last month, management announced it would be delaying this earnings announcement due to accounting related delays. The stock is down by around 1% in after-hours trading. FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ Jonathan Ernst Bloomberg's Editor-In-Chief Matthew Winkler has released the 25th anniversary edition of "The Bloomberg Way."  The style book is full of rules for Bloomberg's reporters and editors.  Some of the guidelines are unique to the news organization, particularly Winkler's ban of the word "but."  "Clauses that start with although, but, despite or however often confuse more than clarify, because the words connect dissimilar ideas in a single sentence," Winkler writes.  Instead, his solution is to break up the sentences into shorter ones.   The bow-tie wearing editor is also known for his disdain for adjectives and adverbs. He writes that they should be avoided.  "Show, don't tell is a simple rule for writing well," Winkler writes. "Rely on facts, anecdotes and examples, rather than characterizations and modifiers, to convince readers and listeners that we were there or know what we write is true."  He goes on to write, "The best reporter assembles the details, anecdotes and comments and then let the readers decide who's right, wrong, guilty or innocent. They don't rely on phrases such as raises questions or raises eyebrows."   The newest edition of "The Bloomberg Way" is currently available on Amazon Kindle. Hard copies will come out at a later date. FREE AppDownload
Oracle just reported quarterly earnings. It reported revenues of $9.32 billion (a slight miss) and adjusted earnings per share of 68 cents (another miss). Analysts on average expected Oracle's revenue to rise 4%, to about $9.36 billion. They were also expecting adjusted earnings of 70 cents a share, up from 65 cents in the year-earlier quarter. Oracle posted a nice and much needed beat last quarter, after having a rough go of it for the previous three quarters, missing on revenue. Despite falling short of what Wall Street wanted, there was some good news in here. New software licenses and cloud software subscriptions revenues were up 4% to $2.4 billion. Oracle has been investing heavily in its cloud business, so analysts are looking for growth there. Software license updates and product support revenues were up 5% to $4.6 billion. This is really Oracle's bread and butter business. And finally, hardware systems products revenues were up. They rose 8% to $725 million. Maybe the promised turnaround for the hardware business has begun. Oracle's Engineered Server Systems, including the high-end products called Exadata and SPARC SuperClusters, grew 30%, Oracle CEO Larry Ellison says in the press release. This is important. Ellison has previously said that the reason Oracle bought Sun Microsystems was to create these "engineered systems," servers specifically designed to run Oracle software. Since the purchase of Sun, Oracle has been letting sales decline on many of the lower-margin hardware products focusing instead on the more profitable engineered systems. Analysts have been waiting for evidence that this strategy will pay off for Oracle. FREE AppDownload
BRUSSELS (Reuters) - Mocked by Moscow, the European Union needs to impose far tougher sanctions over Crimea to make President Vladimir Putin sit up and pay attention, but its ability to agree to them is limited - and may not be achievable at all. Russia's response to the first phase of EU sanctions - travel bans and asset freezes on 13 Russian and eight Crimeans - has been dismissive. Deputy PM Rogozin took to Twitter to ridicule the EU and the United States, calling their steps weak and meaningless. Some EU foreign ministers quietly agree and are frustrated. They wanted harder-hitting sanctions, but EU restrictions have to be agreed unanimously, which means the measures are only as strong as the country with the deepest reservations will allow. Austria is among the doubters. "Sanctions don't solve problems," said Chancellor Werner Faymann. "The solution can only be getting to negotiations." EU leaders meet in Brussels on Thursday, when they will discuss widening the net, adding names to the 21 already on the travel-ban and asset-freeze list, possibly including oligarchs or people close to Russian President Vladimir Putin. Resistance to escalating sanctions, which aim to stall Putin's drive to bring the Ukrainian region into Russia, is strong. At a small lunch held a few days before the first phase of sanctions was imposed on Monday, one EU ambassador cautioned against moving too quickly or aggressively on Moscow. "We don't want to end up on an escalator where we don't know where it's going," he said, arguing that once you take the first step on sanctions, there are immediate calls for more substantial measures to increase the pressure. "What do you do when sanctions run out?" he asked, leaving hanging the inference that the EU does not want - and could not afford - a more physical confrontation with Russia. In the end, the ambassador's country joined the rest in unanimously agreeing the measures which were less tough than sanctions imposed by the United States. "We have done what we said we could do, but, yes, the U.S. is from Mars, we are from Venus," said Polish Foreign Minister Radoslaw Sikorski, who wanted at least four more names on the EU list but was rebuffed by other member states. "I would suggest that we are not overly enthusiastic when it comes to introducing sanctions, because we will pay for it." While it may be possible to secure agreement among all 28 member states this week for an expansion of the list - diplomats have told Reuters there are up to 100 names under consideration - it is unlikely to deter Russia very much. Instead, the critical question is whether the EU can agree on the step that would come after, the escalation of sanctions to include finance and trade, measures that would directly harm Russian exports, businesses and banks - and the EU as a result. The third stage - which EU leaders agreed on March 6 they would move to if Russia took further steps to destabilize Ukraine - would be akin to sanctions the EU and United States have imposed on Iran over its nuclear program. It really would carry serious consequences for Moscow. The problem is very few member states want to contemplate it, so serious are the possible consequences, both from the impact on bilateral business and likely retaliation by Moscow. From Finland, with 1,300 km (800 miles) of shared border with Russia and a history of war enmity, to Cyprus, which has close banking, property and investment ties with Russia, there are reasons for nearly every EU country to have concerns. Germany is among those most determined to stand up to Moscow, but it takes 40 percent of its gas from Russia. Britain wants to be tough, but Russian businesses and oligarchs use London as their financial center. France has nearly $50 billion of exposure to Russia. Spain, Portugal, Italy, Romania, Bulgaria, Greece and the Baltics have similar or related reasons to be reluctant, along with Austria. "We will reach the stage where those EU countries who have interests and investments in Russia will be heavily penalized," said Nigel Kushner, chief executive of W Legal, a London law firm, who sees little chance of escalation working. That leaves the EU in a quandary. It can add more names to existing sanctions this week and just about maintain unity, even if it does nothing to bring Moscow into line. But going any further - the step that's required to hurt Moscow - may prove too difficult and divisive, and Russia knows it. Instead, the EU may be left looking for diplomatic ways to admonish Moscow, while quietly having to accept that Crimea is in Russia's hands and the territorial integrity of Ukraine - the catchphrase of the last month - has been shattered. (Additional reporting by Angelika Gruber in Vienna and Steve Stecklow in London; editing by David Stamp) FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsMcPherson Square station, Metro, Washington, D.C.Things were looking up today. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
Some perspective here: This winter, the Bloomberg Economic Surprise Index (which captures the extent to which economic data is performing against economic expectations) has fallen to its lowest level since the 2011 debt ceiling fight. Thanks weather! Bloomberg   FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TelevisionJohn SilviaThere are many questions about the labor market that remain unanswered. Why is the labor force participation rate so low, why are employers complaining about talent shortages, why aren't wages growing, etc. In recent months, wage growth has begun to tick up. However, it continues to remain very low. Some economists have attributed low wage growth to labor market slack. But Wells Fargo economist John Silvia thinks this is only part of the story. Another urban legend that does not fully capture the labor market of today is the assertion that weak wage growth has been due to a large amount of slack in the labor market. While an excess of labor relative to demand is indeed part of the slow wage growth story, a less cited reason is lower labor productivity in recent years. Wages are reflective of the marginal product of labor. Therefore, lower labor productivity is typically accompanied by weaker income growth, as illustrated in the bottom chart during different eras of productivity growth. During the post 2005 period, productivity gains and real income gains are fairly matched — as they have been in prior periods. What makes the current period interesting is that both productivity and income gains are low and are reminiscent of the adjustment challenges in the U.S. economy during the oil embargo era. A similar, non-oil, adjustment is going on today. Another piece of the U.S. labor market puzzle. Wells Fargo FREE AppDownload
For the last several weeks, activist investor Carl Icahn, eBay, and board member Marc Andreessen have been exchanging increasingly dramatic open letters, with Icahn insisting that eBay needs to replace its board of directors — in particular Andreessen and Scott Cook. Icahn doesn't think that eBay should have sold part of Skype to an investment group that Andreessen was part of. Today, Icahn released another open letter, reiterating his claims against Andreessen and Cook, accusing eBay of purposely withholding evidence of wrong-doings and bad decision making, and making it clear that he believes that "eventually the truth will out."  This week, Lions Gate had to pay $7.5 million to the SEC because it failed to fully and accurately disclose information about the company to shareholders when it was on the brink of a major decision — and when Icahn was waging a war against the company similar to the one he is waging now on eBay. He uses this recent case to prove that he's not "easy to defeat" and claims that Andreessen and eBay's CEO, John Donahoe, who have called his previous statements "false and misleading," will have to eat their words. "While the board and its advisors may try to use tricks and technicalities to keep documentary evidence of malfeasance out of the hands of stockholders, I believe that ultimately truth will win out," he writes. "It may not be in time for this year’s annual meeting and it may even take years, but I believe that we will ultimately be successful in forcing eBay to come clean with its stockholders and disclose publicly all documents relating to the Skype affair, only some of the sordid details of which we recently exposed. And when that day comes, I believe that eBay, CEO John Donahoe, director Marc Andreessen and Chairman and founder Pierre Omidyar will be forced to recant their statements that my claims were “false and misleading." Here's the whole post:  Little did I know when I wrote on March 12th that “NOTHING STAYS BURIED FOR LONG” how quickly those words would turn out to be prophetic. On March 13, 2014, the SEC charged Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. with failing to fully and accurately disclose to investors a key aspect of its effort to thwart our 2010 takeover bid and Lions Gate agreed to pay $7.5 million and admit wrongdoing to settle the SEC’s charges.[1] “Lions Gate withheld material information just as its shareholders were faced with a critical decision about the future of the company,” said Andrew J. Ceresney, director of the SEC’s Division of Enforcement. I believe this long overdue vindication of our claims highlights just how far companies and their “defense” counselors are willing to go in order to prevent stockholders from having a voice in the boardroom and “interfering” with management. As Forbes stated: “It isn’t easy to defeat Icahn and on Thursday Lions Gate Entertainment admitted that in order to beat him, the company had committed some wrongdoing.”[2] It seems that nothing is out of bounds these days – including crossing clear legal boundaries into lying, cheating and, as we have seen in some highly public cases, even conduct not much different than outright theft – when management feels threatened by stockholders who are not satisfied with the choice of either accepting the status quo or voting with their feet. And there also seems unfortunately to be no shortage of “advisors” willing to breach ethical standards to devise and bless these schemes for management. Which brings me to the case of eBay. While the board and its advisors may try to use tricks and technicalities to keep documentary evidence of malfeasance out of the hands of stockholders, I believe that ultimately truth will win out. It may not be in time for this year’s annual meeting and it may even take years, but I believe that we will ultimately be successful in forcing eBay to come clean with its stockholders and disclose publicly all documents relating to the Skype affair, only some of the sordid details of which we recently exposed. And when that day comes, I believe that eBay, CEO John Donahoe, director Marc Andreessen and Chairman and founder Pierre Omidyar will be forced to recant their statements that my claims were “false and misleading.” The Skype debacle represents in my mind a complete and utter breakdown in the system of checks and balances that a properly functioning board should provide and proves to me that new blood is needed in the boardroom immediately. Sadly, it is not the only example of poor judgment on the part of eBay’s board of directors – who refer to themselves as “world class.” Maybe I’m missing it. What exactly is “world class” about being a large stockholder of a direct competitor and interfering, as alleged by the Department of Justice, with eBay’s hiring practices on behalf of said direct competitor (current board nominee, Scott Cook)? What exactly is “world class” about participating in a consortium that buys assets from the company and flips them for a quick and massive profit (current board member, Marc Andreessen)? What exactly is “world class” about failing, as alleged by the SEC, to take steps to ensure that the accounting for stock options was proper and agreeing to disgorgement and civil penalties amounting to over $3.5 million (current board nominee, Fred Anderson)? eBay’s board has stated that our director nominees are “not qualified candidates.” Why are they not qualified? Let’s compare them to the individuals currently serving on the board. Our nominees have not been accused of improprieties by the Department of Justice or the Securities and Exchange Commission. Can the same be said for the sitting directors? Our nominees will not have massive investments in direct competitors. Can the same be said for the sitting directors? Though I cannot predict the future, I am comfortable assuring stockholders that our nominees will not buy assets from eBay and flip them for a quick profit. Can the same be said for the sitting directors? The question of whether eBay and PayPal should be separated is now legitimately before the stockholders and is being debated by many in the media and academia. Maybe our proposal will garner majority stockholder support and maybe it will not. But I believe that if it is left as a division of eBay, PayPal may well go the way of other former technology greats such as Blackberry, Dell, Eastman Kodak, Polaroid, Nintendo, Xerox, Sony, Palm, and AOL – the same way that Motorola Mobility may have gone had we not been able to convince Motorola’s board to bring in a new CEO and separate the companies – ultimately resulting in a sale to Google. Sadly in our opinion and the opinion of others eBay does not have years to wait. Disclosure: Marc Andreessen is an investor in Business Insider. FREE AppDownload
This is interesting: the Richmond Fed owns two vintage Thompson submachine gun, aka Tommy Guns. "U.S. General John T. Thompson developed this iconic firearm in 1919," wrote the Fed in a blog post. "It eventually went into full production in the 1920s and became a favorite weapon of the military and law enforcement groups throughout the United States. The Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond’s Law Enforcement Unit still possesses two vintage “Tommy” guns." One of our vintage "Tommy" guns, favored by law enforcement starting in the '20s. http://t.co/EfeBhDNtBC #FedHistory pic.twitter.com/B7jcnrOyUF FREE AppDownload
Before you fill out your March Madness bracket, take a look at the historical data. Should you pick one of the top-seeded teams to win the tournament? How many upsets are there likely to be? We did the math. Produced by Sara Silverstein and Sam Rega. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Kevin Winter/GettyEllen knows to buy the large pizza.One of the great things about mathematics is its ability to bring together apparently completely unrelated phenomena, and explain them all with the same simple concept. It turns out that a very basic mathematical idea — power laws — describes the economics of pizza, limitations on the sizes of insects, income inequality, and countless other things. We recently looked at why it makes sense to buy a large pizza rather than a small. As mentioned in that post, the area of a pizza increases as a function of the square of the radius. Formally, the area of a pizza with radius R is, as we all saw in high school, given by the formula A = pR2. The area of the pizza — the actual amount of pizza you get — grows much more quickly than the width. As the NPR piece on pizza prices points out, a 12 inch pizza is 50% wider than an 8 inch pizza. Plug those values into the area formula, and the 8 inch pie gives you about 50 square inches of pizza, but the 12 inch pie gives you about 113 square inches of pizza — a 125% increase, or more than twice as much pizza. The relationship between the area and width of a circle is an example of a power law: the area is proportional to the width raised to some power, in this case the power of 2. Power laws are somewhat counterintuitive at first, because we are used to linear relationships. If you work for an hourly wage, you get paid the same amount of money for each hour you work, and so the total amount of money you make in a week is linearly proportional to the number of hours you work in that week. Power laws grow non-linearly. If you were paid according to a power law, you would get more money per hour for each hour you work, just as you get more pizza per inch of width the wider the pizza is.  REUTERS/Bobby Yip8 feet 3 inch tall Sultan Kosen (C) from Turkey, walks at the Golden Bauhinia Square outside the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre in Hong Kong June 7, 2012.Power laws show up in many different contexts. Just as the area of a circle is proportional to the width of the circle squared, the volume of a sphere is proportional to the width cubed, or raised to the third power. The formula for the volume of a sphere with radius R is V = (4/3)pR3. Suppose you have two balls, both made out of the same material, but with one ball twice as wide as the other. Then the larger ball will not weigh twice as much as the smaller ball, but will instead weigh eight times as much. This has serious implications in biology. Take a six foot tall human, and double his height to twelve feet, keeping all of his other proportions the same. His mass, which has a cubic power relationship to his height, will be eight times more than when he was six feet tall. However, the cross-sectional area of the muscles and bones in his legs is proportional to the square of his height, and so at twelve feet tall, he will have only four times as much bone and muscle area, putting far more pressure on his legs. So, in nature, we see differently sized animals developing different proportions for anatomical features. Rhinoceroses have disproportionately larger leg bones and muscles than do mice. The study of these differences, which tend to follow power laws, is called allometry. Allometry can help explain one of the stranger moments in the history of life on Earth. In the Carboniferous period, a little over 300 million years ago, the planet was covered with vast rain forests. This caused the amount of oxygen in the atmosphere to be far higher than it is today. Wikimedia CommonsArthropleura: not a pleasant neighborThe Carboniferous also featured enormous insects and other arthropods, like the six foot long centipede-like Arthropleura to the left. Scientists have long speculated that the gigantic arthropods and plentiful oxygen of this period are related. Arthropods do not breathe using lungs and transferring oxygen with blood the way vertebrates do. Instead, they have a series of small breathing tubes, or trachea, running along their bodies, directly bringing air to internal tissues. A 2007 study of modern beetles showed that the sizes of these breathing tubes grows following a non-linear power law with the size of the insects. As the bugs get bigger, they have to dedicate proportionally more and more of their internal volume to their respiratory systems.  This limits the size of modern insects — at some point, they get so big that, if they kept following the power law governing breathing tube size, they would run out of room for other muscles and organs. Back in the oxygen-rich Carboniferous period, arthropods might have been able to get away with relatively smaller breathing tubes, following a more forgiving power law relationship between overall size and the amount of internal space needed for breathing. This might have allowed them to grow to the absurd sizes the fossil record shows. Income Inequality Power laws also show up in economics and sociology. The Pareto distribution, which shows, among other things, how wealth and income in a society are distributed, follows a power law. The percentage of the population that makes more than a particular amount of money is proportional to the reciprocal of that amount, raised to some power. This means, as you go up the income scale, you very quickly get fewer and fewer people making at least that much money. This explains the wide inequalities we see in income and wealth — the largest part of the population falls on the lower end of the income spectrum. Power laws — relationships between two quantities where one quantity is proportional to the other, raised to some power — describe a huge number of phenomena in our universe. In addition to the examples above, power laws describe the sizes of cities, the strength of gravity on other planets, the frequencies of earthquakes of different magnitudes, and much more. FREE AppDownload
With the exception of last year’s steady rise, March has been maddening for investors. In three of the past four years the S&amp;P 500 raced higher in March only to reverse all of those gains in a pullback of about 10% that began in late March or April. It later took stocks at least five months to climb back to the peaks of March. As the NCAA tournament gets down to its own sweet sixteen while the rest of March plays out, it is a good time to reflect on the competing drivers of the markets that may make for an exciting showdown in the weeks and months to come.   LPL Financial As we narrow down stocks’ “sweet sixteen” potential drivers again this year, the four “regions” of market-moving factors vying for investor attention are: economy, policy, fundamentals, and sentiment. Economy Policy Fundamentals Sentiment There are quite a few listed here, but these certainly are not all the factors that are influencing the markets. The key message for investors in considering these factors is: do not be too confident in any particular outcome. It is a time to nibble at opportunities as they emerge; it is not a time to jump in with both feet, or for indiscriminate selling. Investing is not a game, but it is important also to remember that forecasting is not an exact science, and many factors can affect outcomes that are hard to predict. For example: The markets rarely offer perfect clarity on their direction because they are driven by these factors as well as many others. Even this week’s NCAA March Madness can be seen as a reminder of how it can be notoriously hard to predict winners; historically, a team’s ranking has meant nothing after getting down to the elite eight. There will likely be some upsets that result in volatility and pullbacks as these factors face off against each other. In the end, we expect positive fundamentals and economic growth to win out and a potentially rewarding year for investors. This article originally appeared at LPL Financial.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
BIICatch up on the latest e-commerce industry news with E-Commerce Insider, a daily email newsletter that tracks the biggest changes in the e-commerce industry, highlighting the technologies and companies that are transforming retail.  As e-commerce continues to take a much bigger slice of total retail sales — and as browsing for products online becomes integrated into every consumer's shopping behavior — there's a lot at stake for physical and digital retailers, consumer brands, and the payments industry. We'll follow all the top trends, companies, and people spurring the biggest innovations.   Signing up is quick and easy. Click on this link, enter your email address, and click, "Submit." You'll receive it every morning in your inbox.  The newsletter is produced by BI Intelligence, Business Insider's subscription industry news and research service. Any comments or suggestions, please email mballve@businessinsider.com.   FREE AppDownload
Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg)Chart 1: The Chinese yuan falls sharply. This week, the Chinese yuan has suffered its biggest two-day loss against the U.S. dollar since December 2008. The sharp drop follows an announcement over the weekend that the People's Bank of China would widen the trading band around the official reference rate it sets each day for the value of the yuan against the dollar. This daily "fix" governs where the yuan can trade in spot markets. The new band allows the yuan to trade within 2% of the reference rate in either direction, while the old band only allowed the yuan to fluctuate within 1% of the fix. The PBoC began lowering the fix about a month ago, reversing a long-running trend of higher daily reference rates and causing the yuan to depreciate rapidly as speculators closed out bets on continued appreciation. For much of the past year, it was trading near the top of the 1% band as capital inflows poured into China, putting upward pressure on the currency. Today, it finally traded a full 1% below the fix — the edge of the previous band — for the first time since July 2012 (chart 2). Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg)Chart 2: The yuan is now trading at the bottom of the PBoC's previous trading band for the first time since July 2012.And if the yuan falls again tomorrow, it may trade into the widened band announced by the PBoC over the weekend for the first time. The Chinese central bank has been guiding the reference rate lower in recent weeks to ready the marketplace for a wider trading band, an intermediate step toward eventually ceasing to set daily reference rates altogether and allowing market forces to fully determine the currency's value. The PBoC had to engineer a depreciation of the yuan before widening the trading band because of the massive capital inflows China has received over the past year. In a recent report, a team of JPMorgan analysts led by Nikolaos Panigirtzoglou estimated using foreign exchange reserves and current account data that China received $100 billion in capital inflows between May and February, mirroring $100 billion in outflows from other emerging markets (EM) over the same period. As the U.S. dollar rose against freely-floated EM currencies and interest rate differentials narrowed, popular "carry trading" strategies designed to profit on wider yield spreads lost their luster. This was not the case in China, where the dollar continued to depreciate against the yuan, and the result was perhaps a rotation out of EM and into China. Now, especially as recent Chinese economic data points have shown weakness relative to consensus forecasts, analysts are concerned about the potential for capital outflows, and say this will determine the direction of the yuan going forward. The picture is further complicated by the proliferation of structured products called target redemption forwards designed to profit on yuan appreciation, which pose the risk of "non-linearity" in dollar-yuan exchange rate movements if the yuan continues to fall. Geoffrey Kendrick, head of Asian FX and interest rate strategy at Morgan Stanley, estimates Chinese corporates currently hold around $150 billion of these products, and could face severe losses should yuan depreciation continue. According to Kendrick's analysis, every 0.10 move above 6.20 in the dollar-offshore yuan exchange rate would result in losses of $200 million per month for those corporates as long as the rate stays above that level (today, the rate rose to 6.18). Furthermore, between 6.15 and 6.20, Kendrick says banks that sold these products need to hedge their positions by selling dollars for yuan. However, above 6.20, banks no longer need to sell dollars and instead need to buy volatility. That's where the risk of a "non-linear" yuan depreciation comes in. All of this has been top of mind for China investors in recent weeks as the PBoC has guided the fix lower. Now, however, the big question is what happens next, especially given the exchange rate's proximity to this "danger zone" that could trigger non-linear yuan depreciation. Kit Juckes, head of currency strategy at Société Générale, met with clients across Asia last week, and his big takeaway, which he detailed in a blog post, is that many expect yuan appreciation to resume. "The investor community in Singapore listened politely to views about Europe, the U.S., and financial markets in general, but the conversation pretty quickly turned to the renminbi," said Juckes. "Singapore is the private banking hub for Southern Asia, and benefiting from the combination of an ever-appreciating renminbi and higher yields than are on offer in either U.S. or Singapore dollars is one the most popular investment strategies for their high net worth clients. The general view or hope of these investors is that the current PBoC-induced volatility in the USD/CNY rate is just a blip, which will not stand in the way of their investment strategy." Likewise, in mainland China, "when the talk turned to the domestic currency, I sensed nervousness and uncertainty," said Juckes. "That is unusual in Beijing, a place where there is usually certainty about the authorities' goals and little doubt that they will be successfully achieved." Finally, in Hong Kong, "we were back to talking about China," said Juckes. "I was asked how far I think the USD/CNY rate may rise and retorted that if the idea was to reduce the appeal of the 'carry trade,' then what I learned in Singapore is that those buying the renminbi are not feeling dissuaded yet. The glib remark that from the current 6.15, we are more likely to see the rate at 7 than 5 in the coming years caused real concern until I qualified it by saying that neither of these levels is likely. What I did learn is that a 2.5% depreciation is causing more anguish than a fall of that magnitude should — and by association that there is more leverage in the trade than I had realised. That increase in leverage makes me concerned, particularly in the wake of the announcement this weekend that the daily trading band for USD/CNY is being widened." Morgan Stanley's Kendrick and others — like Goldman Sachs analysts Themistoklis Fiotakis and Kamakshya Trivediare — are advising clients to pay close attention to incoming economic data out of China, which could determine the fate of portfolio flows (and thus, the currency itself, at least for the time being).  "It is likely that the tighter financial conditions in China at the end of last year and early in 2014 caused activity to slow, along with the weaker-than-expected external demand and heightened anti-corruption initiatives," say Fiotakis and Trivediare. "The softer recent data also help to explain the ongoing easing in financial conditions, through a much lower 7-day repo rate and measures to encourage currency weakness in recent weeks. A clear shift back towards CNY appreciation may not occur until activity recovers from these weak levels." FREE AppDownload
YouTube/ South Bay DigsThe real-life "Wolf of Wall Street" Jordan Belfort — who is now a motivational speaker — has lived in this luxurious oceanfront home in California. [via @BoydRoddy] Belfort's business, JB Global Holdings LLC, was registered to an oceanfront home located at 3423 The Strand in Hermosa Beach, Calif. His fiancée is also listed as a member.  Click to see the house » Belfort is the author of a bestselling, tell-all memoir that chronicled his boozy, drug-fueled high-flying Wall Street lifestyle running '90s-era boiler room Stratton Oakmont. The convicted felon's book was recently adapted into a film directed by Martin Scorsese starring Leonardo DiCaprio. Belfort was arrested in 1998. In 2003, he was convicted for securities fraud and money laundering. He served a 22-month prison sentence after being sentenced to four years. He was also ordered to pay $110.4 million in restitution to victims of Stratton Oakmont. He hasn't finished paying them back yet either.  While the nearly 4,000 square-foot California home is much smaller compared to his former palatial Long Island home, it's still incredibly nice.  Now we're going to take a tour.  Clarification: It's unclear if Belfort currently lives in the home.  FREE AppDownload
Borrowing money against your home to buy stocks at multi-year highs? What could go wrong? From MSN: MSN FREE AppDownload
We've heard it hundreds of times: the U.S. has the highest corporate income tax rate in the developed world. Combining the federal and weighted average state corporate income tax rates gives U.S. companies a 39% statutory rate. However, companies don't really pay that. "[T]he S&amp;P 500 median effective rate of 30% is almost 10 percentage points below the statutory rate," wrote Goldman Sachs' Amanda Sneider. "Over the last 10 years, fewer than 10% of S&amp;P 500 firms have paid the statutory rate or higher." The United States' extremely complicated tax code is riddled with loopholes that allow businesses to enjoy lower rates. But in its effort to rein in deficits and debt, the government may get more aggressive about ending that party. "The tax preferences that create the gap between effective and statutory rates will likely receive scrutiny from policymakers as they attempt to reform the tax code," said Sneider. "By closing the gap between effective and mandated tax rates, the government could raise revenues while lowering the statutory rate, thus presenting the change as a tax cut." Here's the chart from Goldman. Goldman Sachs FREE AppDownload
Corporate profit margins are right at record highs. Coming out of the financial crisis, fattening profit margins have helped corporate profits surge despite lackluster revenue growth. "Firms have enjoyed a secular increase in the productivity of labor and capital as well as technological innovations such as real-time inventory management, reducing both fixed and variable costs," said Goldman Sachs' Amanda Sneider in a new research note. "Low inflation in terms of commodity inputs and labor costs have been tailwinds. Taxes and interest rates have never been more favorable for the profitability of firms." Economists and analysts are split as to what happens next. Some think there's room for further expansion. Others think they're doomed to collapse. "Looking forward, the forces that influence margins are equally balanced between upside and downside," said Sneider. "We forecast trailing four quarter net margins will remain at peak levels in 2014 before rising to a new peak of 9.0% in 2015." For some historical context, Sneider offered this chart showing how each expense component contributed to widening margins. "Rather than one major factor pushing margins to record levels, over the last 20 years almost every component of the income statement has shrunk relative to sales," she noted. Goldman Sachs FREE AppDownload
  If you must know only one fact about the U.S. economy, it should be this chart:houseofdebt.orgThe chart shows that productivity, or output per hour of work, has quadrupled since 1947 in the United States. This is a spectacular achievement by an advanced economy. The gains in productivity were quite widely shared from 1947 to 1980. Real income for the median U.S. family doubled during this time just as output per hour of work performed doubled. The rising tide was lifting all boats. However, what we want to focus on today is the remarkable separation in productivity and median real income since 1980. While the United States is producing twice as much per hour of work today compared to 1980, a small part of the gain in real income has gone to the bottom half of the income distribution. The gap between productivity and median real income is at an historic all-time high today. So where are all of the gains in productivity going? Two places: First, owners of capital are getting a bigger share of GDP than before. In other words, the share of profits has risen faster than wages. Second, the highest paid workers are getting a bigger share of the wages that go to labor. The net result is that families at the higher end of the income distribution have received more of the income produced by the economy since the 1980s. The latter fact has been documented meticulously by the brilliant research of Thomas Piketty and Emmanuel Saez. The widening gap between productivity and median income is a defining issue of our time. It is not just about inequality – important as that issue is. The widening gap between productivity and median income has serious implications for macroeconomic stability and financial crises. Our forthcoming book takes up these issues in more detail. FREE AppDownload
 Canadian Bitcoins, an Ottawa-based Bitcoin exchange, was defrauded of more than $100,000 worth of the digital currency in a comically low-tech heist, reports the Ottawa Citizen. The Bitcoin thief started a customer service chat session with Granite Networks, the company hosting Canadian Bitcoins' server, and claimed to have a problem with it. The server was rebooted in safe mode, which bypassed the all-important security measures that would normally keep it safe. The rest was a cinch: According to a text copy of the chat session obtained by the Citizen, at no point during the nearly two-hour-long conversation was the caller asked to verify his identity. After being asked, the technical support worker gained access to Grant’s locked server pen, plugged in a laptop and then manually gave the fraudster access to Canadian Bitcoins servers, where he cleaned out a wallet containing 149.94 bitcoins, valued at around $100,000. James Grant is the proper owner and he's obviously displeased with how the situation was handled. "It’s completely ridiculous," he told the Citizen. "All they did was go on the chat session and say, ‘Hi, I’m James Grant and I have a server with you’ and the data centre said, ‘Yes you do, what can we do for you?" The unfortunate irony here is that the Citizen describes Granite Networks' server facility as being "built to some of the highest security standards in the industry." Yet the story effectively boils down to this: a thief claiming to be the rightful owner of a server containing Bitcoins asked for access and was pretty much granted it. After that he did what thieves do and took off with the loot. Parent company Rogers Communication issued a statement surrounding the incident:  The situation surrounding this customer is unique to this customer, and does not apply to any other customer of Rogers Data Centres. Rogers has been fully co-operative with authorities in the investigation.  Rogers Data Centres provides the highest level of security in the Canadian data centre industry. Its security protocol is operationally certified and in accordance with industry best practices. We have reviewed our security processes and continue to work with our customers to make sure they take advantage of all of our security features. FREE AppDownload
No one can escape March Madness, not even the Masters of the Universe. With that in mind, Bloomberg TV's Stephanie Ruhle collected final four picks from some of the biggest names on Wall Street. Of all of them, only JP Morgan CEO Jamie Dimon wouldn't share his entire final four, just his top pick (Duke). Here's the rundown, and you can watch Ruhle talk about their picks (and some helpful hints on how to build your bracket) in the video below. Appaloosa Management's David Tepper: Pine River Capital Management's Steve Kuhn: Oaktree Capital Management's Howard Marks: Fortress Investment Group's Mike Novogratz: Goldman Sachs' Gary Cohn: Greenlight Capital Inc's David Einhorn: 12th Avenue Management's Marc Lasry: and … JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co's Jamie Dimon: Check out the video below:  FREE AppDownload
On April 8, Microsoft will end its support for Windows XP, leaving up to 95% of bank ATM machines vulnerable to hackers. Machines running outdated operating systems, unbacked by corporate security updates, are the easiest types of computers to hack. And most ATMs run Windows XP. Microsoft is expecting hackers to go to work on machines running XP as soon as the April 8 deadline passes: “The probability of attackers using security updates for Windows 7, Windows 8, Windows Vista to attack Windows XP is about 100 per cent,” Timothy Rains, Microsoft’s director of trustworthy computing, said recently. Windows XP was originally launched in 2001 and is widely regarded as the best version of Windows ever. Just under 40% of PC users still run Windows XP on their desktops. Microsoft is trying to force all those users to upgrade to newer, more secure versions of Windows. The company originally tried to migrate everyone off XP back in 2007, but people liked it so much many refused to upgrade. So Microsoft begrudgingly kept up support for XP for seven more years. Now, Microsoft is finally pulling the plug, and bank ATMs still running XP are about to become Target No.1 for hackers. The world of bank ATMs moves even more slowly than personal computer users. NCR estimates that up to 95% of ATMs run XP, and that only a third of them will have been converted to new systems by April 8. Many banks are paying Microsoft to extend support for XP on cash machines while they make the switch to Windows 7, according to Reuters. Part of the problem is the very ubiquity of ATMs. Because cash machines are everywhere, operated by dozens of major banks and dozens more small companies that provide standalone machines to delis and corner stores, it's difficult to get everyone on board with the new system all at once, Bloomberg says: The many offshoots of the country’s jumbled ATM network, ranging from convenience stores that operate a single antiquated cash machine to national banks that oversee tens of thousands of terminals, are feeling the deadline in different ways, says Suzanne Cluckey, the editor of ATM Marketplace, a news site that serves the industry. More advanced ATM fleets can do the update over their networks. Older ATMs must be upgraded one by one or even replaced entirely if they don’t have enough computing power to run the newer, more demanding software. “My bank operates an ATM that looks like it must be 20 years old, and there’s no way that it can support Windows 7,” says Cluckey. “A lot of ATMs will have to either have their components upgraded or be discarded altogether and sold into the aftermarket—or just junked.” Aravinda Korala, CEO of ATM software provider KAL, believes only 15 percent of ATMs in the U.S. will be upgraded by April 8, he told Bloomberg: “The ATM world is not really ready, and that’s not unusual,” he says. “ATMs move more slowly than PCs.” FREE AppDownload
There's a big new trend when it comes to selling enterprise tech, a concept called "social selling." One of the gurus of social selling is former Eloqua star salesperson Jill Rowley. Until last week, Rowley was leading an effort to train about 23,000 Oracle salespeople in the technique, which uses social networks like LinkedIn, Twitter and Facebook to work with prospects and customers. Social selling is all about "social proximity," or degrees of separation based on social networking, she tells Business Insider. But, Oracle fired her after she talked to a reporter at Advertising Age for a story about how Oracle is training its salespeople to use their Twitter accounts to interact with customers, Rowley told Business Insider. "Just because he was a reporter, I violated the social media participation policy and I was fired," Rowley told us. Oracle declined to comment on the situation. Rowley has developed a pretty good following in this new world of social selling and will instantly land on her feet. On Tuesday she'll launch her own consultant company, and she's not at all bitter. In fact, she says she's got Oracle to thank for her new company. "I spent an amazing 10 months and 17 days there. I'm proud of what I was able to accomplish in terms of designing and deploying adoption of a global social selling program," she says. "At Eloqua I trained 100 reps. At Oracle, 23,000. What’s next is 200,000 and then maybe 2 million? I see a major revolution in the sales world and I get to be the forefront and I thank Oracle for that." Rowley believes that social selling is "transforming the sleazy, slimy, slicked-back hairdo image of sales" into one where salespeople are there to help companies solve their IT problems. It's the next big thing in the enterprise tech world because IT professionals lean heavily on social networks to research tech products and to work with vendors, research finds.  It's also really important to selling cloud-computing services. Traditional software contracts tend to be focused on closing a sale and then getting out. The opposite is needed for the cloud: Software-as-a-service is a long-term partnership thing, so sales incentives need to be structured around making customers happy so they stick around and keep paying for the service.  As we previously reported, Oracle isn't the only one trying to figure out this transition. Microsoft has got similar issues with its own salesforce.  We understand from a source that there are some people who might want to hire Rowley as a consultant for Oracle, even if she's no longer a full-timer. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Petar KujundzicChinese property developer, Zhejiang Xingrun Real Estate Co, is unable to repay 2.4 billion yuan (about $400 million) in loans, report Dinny McMahon and Esther Fang at the Wall Street Journal. Xingrun owes banks 2.4 billion yuan, and owes another 1.1 billion yuan (about $178 million) to other creditors. The People's Bank of China, and one of China's big four banks, China Construction Bank, were reportedly holding "emergency talks" about bailing out a property developer, Jamil Anderlini reported in the Financial Times. China Construction Bank was the biggest lender to Xingrun. But Bloomberg is now reporting that the PBoC was not involved in any emergency talks concerning Xingrun. The real estate developer had reportedly tried to offer paying creditors annual interest rates of as much as 18-36% for loans after banks began to turn it down. The chairman and son have both been arrested for illegal fund raising. But if the property developer were to default, this would raise concerns not just about shadow banking, but about the health of China's property sector as well. China's overheated property sector has been under the scanner for a long time. Xingrun took a beating as prices for local land and apartments in Fenghua have fallen. Officials in Fenghua, a city in Zhejiang province where the developer is based, have been trying to calm fears about another default. Stocks and bonds issued by Chinese property developers fell on the news. Markets are nervous after the default of a corporate bond (Chaori Solar Energy Science and Technology Co's 11 Chaori bond). Even though the default was expected, copper prices plunged following the news, as concerns began to mount about copper-backed loans. Speaking after the National People's Congress, premier Li Keqiang said when it comes to defaults of financial products, "avoiding a few individual cases would be difficult, but efforts must be taken to make sure regional and systemic financial risks do not occur." Societe Generale's Wei Yao has previously warned that "government efforts to engineer a deleveraging could lead to a hard landing in China, if the policy response is misjudged." As China pushes through reforms and tries to rebalance its economy away from investment led growth, it needs to tread carefully. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Alexander ZemlianichenkoRussian President Vladimir Putin smiles during a meeting with German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier (not pictured) in the Kremlin in Moscow Dec. 18, 2007.They say you shouldn't kick a man when he's down, but that's exactly what Russia tried to do back in 2008 when the United States was at its lowest point in recent history. You'll remember the housing crisis, of course. In a recent BBC documentary called "How China Fooled The World" then-Treasury Secretary Hank Paulson recalls doing all he could to ensure that mortgage insurers Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac's biggest outside investors — the Chinese — didn't sell their stake in the companies. At the same time, however, Paulson learned that Russian officials were working to ensure the opposite. They were trying to get the Chinese to join them in selling Fannie and Freddie holdings to gang up on the U.S. Here's what he said in the documentary: "Here I'm not going to name the senior person, but I was meeting with someone… This person told me that the Chinese had received a message from the Russians which was, 'Hey let's join together and sell Fannie and Freddie securities on the market.' The Chinese weren't going to do that but again, it just, it just drove home to me how vulnerable I felt until we had put Fannie and Freddie into conservatorship [the rescue plan for them, that was eventually put in place]." The Chinese didn't end up doing any of that, but this just goes to show how ready and willing Russia has been to hurt the United States at any point. A year later, then-Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and her counterpart would hit the "reset button" on Russia-U.S. relations. It's hard to imagine that button coming out again any time soon.   FREE AppDownload
According to the article, the plan was ready about a year ago, but was delayed by “deep divisions between government departments and dissatisfaction from Li Keqiang, the Chinese premier, who has been a strong champion of the scheme.” Apparently, last week’s batch of weak economic indicators convinced the government that now is the time to go public with the stimulus plan. The China MSCI index is down 10.6% ytd in US dollar terms. Both industrial production and crude oil usage have flattened out over the past few months. Retail sales rose 11.8% y/y during February, the slowest since February 2011. The article also notes that while China’s central planners are committed to growth based on more consumption and less infrastructure spending, “they insist that they must keep investment levels high in the short term to guarantee employment and political stability.” I’ve made this point in the past. Transitioning from export-led growth to consumer-led growth is easier said than done, especially after 30+ years of the former. While Chinese officials are struggling to make the transition, they are likely to rely on the same old formulas to sustain growth. The problem is that debt was an important ingredient in the old formula, and it is no longer as stimulative as in the past. The latest central plan aims to increase urbanization from 54% of the population to 60% by 2020. Most developed countries are at around 80%. There are about 270 million migrant workers who are required to have hukou permits to work in the cities. They are not eligible to use any social services, including health, housing, education, or pensions in their new urban homes. This system will have to be dismantled over time to allow these workers to permanently urbanize. Ed Yardeni Today's Morning Briefing: Peace In Our Time. (1) The bull’s dance routine. (2) China and Crimea were bearish last week, but bullish yesterday. (3) China’s latest central plan. (4) More urbanization and fewer migrant workers. (5) Transition is easier said than done. (6) Back in the USSR. (7) Kerry’s Chamberlain press conference. (8) Chauncey Gardner’s forecast for the spring. (9) More fairy dust coming from Yellen. (10) Ali Baba and his friends. (11) Bubbles and macro-prudential policies. (12) Focus on over-weight-rated S&amp;P 500 IT. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Danny MoloshokGoldman Sachs has set an estimated date for when they believe residential solar power becomes competitive with existing electric across the U.S. It's relatively soon. Here's the timeline from Cleantech analysts Brian Lee and Thomas Daniels, included in Goldman's latest note on Tesla: CleanTechnica "This puts LCOE at $0.20 by 2033 which would be at parity with the US grid price," Goldman says. And this could happen even sooner in New York, California, and Hawaii, where electricity is more expensive and especially in places like Hawaii where costs are $0.36 per KWh, the note. What's more, Goldman says this will all go down even without credits: While the ITC runs only through 2016, our Clean Energy team believes the number of households hitting grid parity will continue to grow as the cost of the systems comes down...SolarCity has seen a 40% decline in the per watt cost of PV panels since the second quarter of 2013 driven by improved scale which is expected to continue. This has been true for Tesla’s battery costs as well, which have declined from of $500/KWh in 2008 to $250/KWh for the Model S to potentially $125/KWh at the gigafactory. As a result we should note that the quantitative grid parity and return calculations we show above are arrived at without any Federal or state credits. They go on to invoke the two scariest words in the world for utilities: grid defection (people leaving the grid). And they lay out three reasons why, though nothing is imminent, we are heading in that direction.  Ultimately the holy grail of solar is to move to a situation where the customer is no longer tied to the grid at all. This may be far off, aside from entailing a much more expensive solar/battery system, this is also potentially out of people’s comfort zone entailing a 100% reliance on a new system for their electricity needs. That said, decreased reliability from an aging distribution infrastructure, a broadening desire to reduce the carbon footprint, and perhaps most importantly, the reduction of solar panel and battery costs could also work together to make grid independence a reality for many customers one day. They conclude: "As this is a very high-level exercise, we do not quantify the addressable market in this report, but to us the conclusion is very clear – the potential for this application could be very large."   FREE AppDownload
Reddit user "Leeburg" has written a post on his nine months and counting of experience in running a Bitcoin-only storefront online. The site is called CoinsForTech, and it deals in smartphones, computers, and all order of electronic gadgets wanted by people all over the world. Leeburg is able to serve these people because Bitcoin is a geographically agnostic digital currency. Rather than get a bank involved in converting obscure currencies, CoinsForTech simply waits for confirmation that a customer's payment has arrived at the appropriate Bitcoin wallet. At that point, it can convert to U.S. dollars or do whatever else it would like with the Bitcoins — the payment's arrived and the irreversible nature of Bitcoin transactions means it's here to stay. Here's a visual for just how international the site's reach is, which nine months' worth of orders denoted by Bitcoin logos over their destinations (you can view an interactive version here): Screenshot Other relevant details from Leeburg's post: "If you are an international merchant you should be accepting Bitcoin. I cannot stress this enough," Leeburg writes. "Incredibly low start-up and ongoing costs, clear market from Bitcoiners wanting to spend, irreversible and instant payments worldwide — what have you got to lose?" FREE AppDownload
CNBC screenshotAfter venture capital billionaire Tom Perkins caused collective uproar after comparing the rich to Jews on Kristallnacht, you would think that billionaires might think twice before throwing out Nazi Germany comparisons. Not so. In a Politico piece about the super wealthy mobilizing for mid-term elections, billionaire Ken Langone figured the comparison was worth another go. “I hope it’s [the populist strategy] not working,” Ken Langone, the billionaire co-founder of Home Depot and major GOP donor, said of populist political appeals. “Because if you go back to 1933, with different words, this is what Hitler was saying in Germany. You don’t survive as a society if you encourage and thrive on envy or jealousy.” This isn't the first time that Langone has gone out of his way to attack an idea, person, or institution with liberal leanings, of course. Back in 2011 he said that President Obama was "petulant", a year later he trashed the New York Times for one of its articles on the Wal-Mart bribery scandal. Most recently, Paul Krugman caught the side of Langone's tongue. Krugman is well known for believing that the federal deficit is not an issue. Langone disagrees, and believes that the government's budget should be cut. Taxing the rich, he argued, has its limits. Though he does paint a rather scary picture of how the government could turn him and his peers into paupers.  "The thing about 1% like me there's a limit. What's the limit 100% of my income. Unless you say now he's got no income let's go after his assets. We may get there ... The money either comes from taxes or other activities... or a willing and compliant Fed saying how many bars you got? $1 billion? Turn the presses on! This is simple stuff! My problem with the Krugmans of the world is that they're brilliant ... they just may be too brilliant ... Losing weight is not a very scientific endeavor you consume less calories than you burn you lose weight ... so let's stop all this crap with all of these high fallutin' thoughts and ideas. You know what happens to people their eyes glaze over, I don't know what the hell he's saying." Oh, and there was that time he called former New York Governor Eliot Spitzer a "spoiled kid" — which produced the gif below:    SEE ALSO: Eliot Spitzer Tells Maria Bartiromo 'You Are Under Oath Right Now' During An Unbelievably Tense Interview &gt; FREE AppDownload
Flickr.com/RichardLandAnother investment banker has died in an apparent suicide.  The New York Post reports 28-year-old Kenneth Bellando died after apparently jumping from the roof of his six-story Upper East Side apartment building last week.  Bellando worked as an associate at Levy Capital Partners, according to his LinkedIn page. He previously worked at Paragon Capital Partners and JPMorgan Chase.   He graduated from Georgetown University in 2007, his Facebook page shows.  Over the past couple of months, there's been a spate of suicides among financial services employees.  FREE AppDownload
YouTubeThe Maytag Repair ManIn a fascinating new 47-page research note, Goldman Sachs analyst Patrick Archambault raises his 6-month price target on Tesla to $200. Tesla closed at $233.98 on Monday. It's tempting to value Tesla relative to other automakers and original equipment manufacturers, but it's clear that the market is trading the stock like it belongs to a true game-changing company. With that in mind, Archambault takes a somewhat unorthodox approach to deriving his price target. "We quantify the option value of Tesla shares through a deep dive into the lessons learned from past disruptive technologies as well as the opportunity from stationary storage," he said. "To measure what is truly transformational, we need draw on the experience of past technologies like the iPhone, the Ford Model-T, and selected consumer durables like refrigerators/laundry appliances/dishwashers." Here's a summary: If Tesla’s auto business were to be truly disruptive (to the whole auto industry, not just luxury vehicles), then there would be considerable upside. Keying off the history of the iPhone, (adjusting for the replacement cycle) would imply 3.1mn units by 2025 and a PV of $442 per share. The Model-T trajectory implies 3.3mn units and $478 per share; and the volume implied by a basket of transformative durable goods (laundry appliances/dishwashers/refrigerators) gets us 1.8mn units and $329 per share. However, this is offset by our base case (broadly unchanged from our previous forecast) and a downside case where Tesla’s present value is lower and hence we arrive at probability weighted share price of $180 for the auto business alone. And then there's Tesla's hopes to change the energy storage industry: We think the opportunity in stationary storage is significant. With plans to bring battery pack costs down to $125/KWh once the gigafactory is fully ramped, the math works to get to positive NPV projects on the commercial side, and widespread grid parity on residential solar may not be that far off, even without ITC and state tax credits. Based on the economics of the 15 GWh of capacity devoted to storage, we get to $1.33 of earnings accretion, from which we derive an additional PV of $20, bringing our six-month price target to $200. With all that in mind, the $200 price target implies 14.5% downside. Here's a summary of Archambault's model: Goldman Sachs
Solar is booming across the country, even in the most unlikely of places — New York City.  According to ConEd data provided to Business Insider, solar capacity in the five boroughs, plus Westchester County, grew 93% in 2013 to 35.3 megawatts, the most ever. ConEd Westchester led the way overall in 2013, while Queens took the No. 1 spot among the 5 boroughs. ConEd What's going on in Queens? Mostly the prevalence of low, flat roofs, especially among commercial buildings, which comprise the majority of the borough's solar installations. This is also why Manhattan came in dead last.  Here's a screenshot of the scene from the NYC Solar Map made by CUNY: NYCSolarMap But overall the city has benefitted from beefed up incentives from the New York State Energy Research and Development Authority, according to ConEd director of research and development Margarett Jolly. From 2011 to 2013, NYSERDA provided a total of $58.9 million in PV incentives to businesses and homeowners in the five boroughs. Most of that, in turn, grew out of NY-Sun, a 2012 Governor Andrew Cuomo project to significantly increase the amount of solar capacity in New York State. Cuomo has already announced 10 new large (over 200 kilowatt) solar projects in New York City this year. Some of the major NYSERDA projects include:   Of the Jetro site — the largest in the city — Jolly said, "We've added some two-way communications, to give operators the ability to control the network protector and allow certain amount of back flow."  For now, in the short-run, the new customers won't see any benefit on their electric bills unless they can help meet demand during peak usage times. And the city is also inherently limited in the amount of solar it can install by the shape of its rooftops. But the trend is unmistakable.  FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Mike GrollHousing starts fell 0.2% to an annualized pace of 907,000 in February. Economists were looking for a 910,000 level. Building permits, however, jumped 7.7% to 1.01 million. This was much stronger than the 960,000 level expected. "We think poor weather conditions continued to weigh on housing activity in February, limiting the strength of the payback," said Bank of America Merrill Lynch economists ahead of the report.  "Moreover, building permits were weak in January and the NAHB housing index declined in February. Looking forward, we expect a solid gain in activity in the spring season along with a gain in demand." FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Cheryl RaveloConsumer prices rose 0.1% in February, matching January's pace and the consensus forecast of market economists. The year-over-year change in the consumer price index, however, slipped to 1.1% from 1.6%. Economists were expecting a slightly smaller drop to 1.2%. Consumer prices excluding food and energy also rose 0.1% in February, matching January's pace and the consensus estimate, while the year-over-year core inflation rate remained unchanged at 1.6%. Medical care prices rose 0.3% in February, while owners' equivalent rent climbed 0.2%. "The big story is the apparent slowdown in owners' equivalent rent, which alone accounts for 31% of the index," says Ian Shepherdson, chief economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics. "OER rose 0.17% in February after a 0.20% gain in January, below the solid and accelerating prior trend of about 0.22-0.25% per month. But this is a technical effect; OER slows when utility costs rise. This effect will reverse in due course. The underlying pressure on rents is upwards." Many trades are benefiting from continued low inflation and status quo monetary policy, so any surprise in these data points in the next few months has the potential to alter the market landscape. FREE AppDownload
In June 2008, I sat for my CFA Level I exams in Hong Kong. While drunk, after an all-nighter of clubbing. And miraculously passed. I didn't plan on showing up drunk. In Part I of my story, I've detailed the sequence of circumstantial scenarios that led to a very memorable and enjoyable night. Which so happened to coincide with the night before my CFA Level I. So yeah, it wasn't really my fault. Not entirely. Honest. For Part II, here's how the actual CFA exam went. After the full night out, we headed back to our rented apartment in Wanchai. My friends plopped on the sofas whilst I gathered up my pencils and calculator and got a taxi to Central station. From there I got the airport express to the convention centre where the exam would be held at 9am.  Sitting in the early morning train, I could identify some of my fellow test takers, who had obviously had a full-night’s sleep and were doing last minute reading preparation. Dead on my feet, I even fell asleep on the train, but was thankfully woken by somebody who must have noticed I was carrying a TI BAII Plus calculator. And so I found myself with 10,000 HK Chinese and mainland Chinese who had made the journey just for the exam. Still in my clubbing gear, I spent the next hour chain-smoking outside the convention centre rueing not bringing any of my carefully prepared notes. Ignoring the looks of my fellow candidates, I mentally steered myself to stay awake for the 3 hour morning session. Post the first session, I realised that I had not pre-booked my lunch. Beautiful. Thus, I was forced to sit outside the convention centre in ignominy, chain-smoking again and eating candy bars from the vending machine. In addition to that, during the very useful 2 hour break allotted to candidates where one can swot up on last minute revision, I was forced to stare at a wall, given my notes lay somewhere beneath the sofa under my blissfully sleeping friends. (One of who had been meant to sit the exam with me but bailed when he realised that 10 Jägerbombs had pushed him from focused to gibbering wreck.) But the reality was, Level I was multiple choice and very broad-based financial knowledge. If you did not know the answer, you probably were not going to have more than a 50/50 guess.  So midway through the afternoon session, I packed up my pencils, TI BAII Plus calculator, handed in my paper and called it a day. Making it home, I found my friends cheering me, slept on a couch for 3 hours, then headed back out to enjoy one more night in a city that truly never sleeps. Why waste a perfectly good night? The postscript? I passed my exam, no thanks to my pre-exam antics, but rather to good luck and good preparation (in the months before obviously). I also decided (wisely) not to do the same thing for Level II.This is a honest-to-God account of my admittedly less-than-exemplary tale of my CFA Level I. You can read Part I here. I'd love to hear what you think in the comments below! This article originally appeared at 300 Hours.  Copyright 2014. Follow 300 Hours on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
    Ben Horowitz, co-founder of Andreessen Horowitz, talks about the reality of having to demote a friend at work. Horowitz is the author of a new book, "The Hard Thing About Hard Things." Produced by Justin Gmoser Disclosure: Marc Andreessen, co-founder of Andreessen Horowitz, is an investor in Business Insider. FREE AppDownload
In another sign of improving momentum in the US economy, the active oil and gas rig count started rising in recent weeks. This is after a major decline in 2012 and a stagnant 2013. Baker Hughes, Sober Look A big part of the drop in 2012 was due to the sharp decline in natural gas prices. Production in certain situations became unprofitable - particularly for some of the more leveraged projects.  Sober Look Now that gas prices have firmed up and likely to stay that way (see post), some of the extraction projects make sense again - especially as technology improves. Should conversion from gas to liquids become less expensive (see story), rig count will increase further. Like it or not, oil and gas jobs tend to be high-paying - which should help with US wage stagnation. The industry also generates a decent job multiplier effect through the various peripheral sectors that support it (housing, manufacturing, transportation, etc.) If sustained, this jump in rig count could therefore provide a meaningful contribution to the US economic expansion. FREE AppDownload
Moscow ExchangeIn ruble terms.Russian President Vladimir Putin isn't backing down. Following Sunday's Crimean referendum to join Russia, the U.S. responded by announcing sanctions. But in a speech today, Putin reiterated his commitment to annex the Ukrainian region. "We all used to belong to the same country: The Soviet Union," he said. "The Soviet Union has collapsed. The events happened in such a fast way that many of the countries didn't realize ... When Crimea ended up in a different state, Russia realized that not only Russia was robbed, but Russia was robbed in broad daylight." "Crimea is a Russian land." The Russian stock market is rallying today. It's currently up by around 1.5% in dollar terms. Still it's down 13% since the beginning of the year. Thanks to a rebounding ruble, Russian stocks are up 2.2% in Russia.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlos Eduardo RamirezAn anti-government protester holds a stone in front of a burning bus during a protest against Nicolas Maduro's government in San Cristobal March 17, 2014. Since early February, students and hardline opposition leaders have been calling supporters onto the streets to protest against Maduro and his socialist government. Good morning. Here's what you need to know. Putin to annex Crimea. Russian President Vladimir Putin told the Russian parliament Tuesday that the country would move forward on plans to annex Crimea, the Ukrainian region home to many ethnic Russians that ostensibly declared independence from Ukraine over the weekend in a disputed referendum. The move is sure to draw further ire from Western leaders and the broader international community and will likely be met with increasing sanctions and rhetoric in the coming days, which strategists say could cast a shadow over global risk appetite. February inflation data. Monthly consumer prices data are released by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics at 8:30 AM ET. Market economists predict the consumer price index rose 0.1% in February, matching January's pace, but was up only 1.2% from a year earlier, down from 1.6% in January. Prices excluding food and energy are also expected to have risen 0.1% in February, matching January's pace, and the year-over-year core inflation rate is expected to remain unchanged at 1.6%. Many trades are benefiting from continued low inflation and status quo monetary policy, so any surprise in these data points in the next few months has the potential to alter the market landscape. Markets are quiet. S&amp;P 500 futures and U.S. Treasury futures are little changed, and the U.S. dollar is flat against the euro and the Japanese yen. European stock indices are down slightly, while most Asian indices advanced overnight. More cracks in China. Chinese property stocks fell Tuesday after Zhejiang Xingrun Real Estate became the latest Chinese corporate to face a potential default on its debt. Meanwhile, official data revealed a slowdown in house price growth to just 0.2% from the previous month in February, marking the slowest pace since October 2012. At the same time, the breadth of price gains in the housing market is beginning to deteriorate — prices were up in only 57 of the 70 Chinese cities tracked in February, down from 62 in January. China foreign direct investment. Foreign direct investment in China rose 4.1% from a year earlier in February, marking a sharp slowdown following January's 16.1% year-over-year advance. The data were said to be distorted by the Lunar New Year period, as many other January and February economic data releases out of China have been. Over the combined January-February period, foreign direct investment was up 10.4% from a year earlier. Euro zone trade. The euro zone trade surplus shrank to €900 million in January from €13.8 billion in December, falling well short of economists' consensus forecast for a €12 billion surplus. The number still compares favorably with January 2013, when the euro zone recorded a €5.4 billion deficit. Export growth slowed to 1% in January from 4% in December, while imports fell 3% in January after rising 1% in December. German ZEW. The German ZEW survey of investor confidence saw its economic sentiment index tumble to 46.6 in March from 55.7 in February, erasing all of its gains since August. Economists expected a smaller moderation to 52. The survey's current situation index, however, rose to 51.3 from February's 50 reading, but failed to reach consensus estimates for a rise to 52. Karlsruhe clears ESM. Germany's constitutional court ruled that the European Stability Mechanism — the euro zone's permanent bailout fund — did not breach the German constitution. "Despite the liabilities assumed, the budgetary autonomy of the German Bundestag is sufficiently safeguarded," said Andreas Vosskuhle, the court's president. "However, arrangements under budgetary law must be made to ensure that possible capital calls pursuant to the ESM Treaty can be met fully and in time within the agreed-upon upper limits, so that a suspension of Germany's voting rights in the ESM bodies is reliably excluded." Housing starts and building permits. Monthly U.S. housing starts and building permits data are released at 8:30 AM ET. Economists predict starts rose 3.4% in February to 910,000 units at a seasonally-adjusted annualized pace following a 16% slide to 880,000 in January. Permits are expected to have risen 1.6% to 960,000 units at a seasonally-adjusted annualized pace after falling 4.6% to 945,000 in January. TICS. The U.S. Treasury will release monthly TICS data at 9 AM ET. The report will show data on capital flows in January and provide updated information on international holders of U.S. Treasury securities, and could be interesting given the drop in Fed custody holdings observed since the Fed began tapering as foreign central banks have liquidated reserves in order to prop up falling currencies. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mary F. CalvertFederal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen testifies before a House Financial Services Committee hearing on "Monetary Policy and the State of the Economy." at the Rayburn House Office Building in Washington, February 11, 2014. Citi FX analyst Steven Englander has an interesting observation about tomorrow's big FOMC decision (which culminates a two day meeting that starts today). What's unusual and interesting about the meeting is that there is the potential for both a hawkish and a dovish surprise. He explains: The potential dovish surprise would be either a downward revision to GDP and inflation growth, showing a slower tendency to return to the twin mandate targets (however defined). This would make more concrete the view that the economy continues to face substantial headwinds over an extended period. The argument against is that it is hard to see the new evidence that makes a downward revision so compelling, especially when data have been hard to read on a cyclical basis. They could also make clear that they see full employment as far away from current levels, rather than the baseline which is that we are some distance from it – the more concrete, stronger the dovish thrust. ... On the hawkish side, it would be a very hawkish surprise for the Fed not to change the language of forward guidance away from the 6.5%. This would suggest that the FOMC could not find agreement on a language change, and would be viewed as suggesting as more vigorous loyal opposition. Similarly, but less likely, any reference to the pickup in wages, even to say the gains are welcome, would be a hawkish surprise. Any ambiguity on the view that there is a lot of labor market slack – even to say that the Fed is trying to assess with more precision the extent of slack would be a hawkish shift from the confidence that the labor force would respond with additional supply to additional demand. We'll have much more analysis today and tomorrow. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
AP PhotoNew York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman answers a a question during a news conference in his New York City office, Friday, March 18, 2011.(Reuters) - New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman is investigating whether U.S. stock exchanges and alternative trading venues provide improper advantages to high-frequency traders, Bloomberg reported, citing a person with direct knowledge of the matter. Schneiderman's office is examining the sale of products and services that offer faster access to data and richer information on trades than what is typically available to the public, the report said The attorney general's staff has discussed his concerns with executives of the Nasdaq and the New York Stock Exchange and requested more information, the report said. The stock exchanges are the latest parties to come under scrutiny as part of Schneiderman's campaign to ensure a level playing field for all investors. In January, BlackRock Inc, the world's largest asset manager, agreed to end its analyst survey program worldwide as part of an agreement with the Attorney General's office. After the agreement with BlackRock, Schneiderman had said his office would continue the crackdown. High-frequency traders use computer algorithms to generate numerous, lightning-speed automatic trades that make money from tiny price differences in the market. A favored tool of hedge funds and other institutional traders, high-frequency trading has been in regulators' sights now for years, but experts have remained divided on whether the practice helps or harms markets. Reuters reported last month that Berkshire Hathaway Inc's Business Wire would no longer sell potentially market-moving press releases directly to high frequency-trading companies, after months of discussion with the Attorney General's office. Schneiderman's office, NYSE and Nasdaq could not be reached for comment outside regular U.S. business hours. (Reporting by Supriya Kurane and Chris Peters in Bangalore; Editing by Saumyadeb Chakrabarty) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Samsul SaidA visitor looks at a screen showing weather updates and flight-departure information (R) at the Kuala Lumpur International Airport (KLIA) in Sepang on March 18, 2014.  Over the past 10 days, investigators and observers have come up with ever more elaborate theories for what might have happened to Malaysia Airlines Flight 370. What was originally assumed to have been a tragic midair explosion or mechanical problem soon bloomed into a criminal investigation of a meticulously planned hijacking, commandeering, or otherwise stealing of a fully loaded commercial 777 in midair. The perpetrator(s) knew the plane so well, one of the latest theories goes, that they climbed through a trap door outside the cockpit to reach circuit breakers necessary to shut down one of the communications systems. They shut down the transponder. They made the plane disappear and fooled the world into thinking it had crashed. They flew one of two "arcs" for seven hours — a "southern route" over the Indian Ocean on which, eventually, they crashed the plane in the ocean in a complicated suicide, and a "northern route" in which, perhaps, they slipped past land-based radar, flew to a destination in central Asia, and landed, perhaps preparing to use the plane again soon for a terrorist attack or other mission. This latter plan was executed so flawlessly, one observer theorized, that Flight 370 slipped in behind another commercial airliner for much of the route so as not to be noticed on radar. The pilots' houses have been searched. Terrorist connections have been investigated. Passenger backgrounds and possible motives have been scrutinized. And still, 10 days after the plane disappeared, we know nothing. Perhaps that's because we're overthinking it. A few days ago, a former pilot named Chris Goodfellow articulated an entirely different theory on Google+. This theory fits the facts. And it's one of the most plausible yet: This theory fits the facts. It makes sense. It explains the manual course change as well as the "pings" that a satellite kept hearing from the plane. It requires no fantastically brilliant pre-planning or execution or motives. Here's Chris Goodfellow: A lot of speculation about MH370. Terrorism, hijack, meteors. I cannot believe the analysis on CNN - almost disturbing. I tend to look for a more simple explanation of this event. Loaded 777 departs midnight from Kuala to Beijing. Hot night. Heavy aircraft.  About an hour out across the gulf towards Vietnam the plane goes dark meaning the transponder goes off and secondary radar tracking goes off.  Two days later we hear of reports that Malaysian military radar (which is a primary radar meaning the plane is being tracked by reflection rather than by transponder interrogation response) has tracked the plane on a southwesterly course back across the Malay Peninsula into the straits of Malacca. When I heard this I immediately brought up Google Earth and I searched for airports in proximity to the track towards southwest. The left turn is the key here. This was a very experienced senior Captain with 18,000 hours. Maybe some of the younger pilots interviewed on CNN didn't pick up on this left turn. We old pilots were always drilled to always know the closest airport of safe harbor while in cruise. Airports behind us, airports abeam us and airports ahead of us. Always in our head. Always. Because if something happens you don't want to be thinking what are you going to do - you already know what you are going to do. Instinctively when I saw that left turn with a direct heading I knew he was heading for an airport. Actually he was taking a direct route to Palau Langkawi a 13,000 foot strip with an approach over water at night with no obstacles. He did not turn back to Kuala  Lampur because he knew he had 8,000 foot ridges to cross. He knew the terrain was friendlier towards Langkawi and also a shorter distance. Take a look on Google Earth at this airport. This pilot did all the right things. He was confronted by some major event onboard that made him make that immediate turn back to the closest safe airport.For me the loss of transponders and communications makes perfect sense if a fire. There was most likely a fire or electrical fire. In the case of fire the first response if to pull all the main busses and restore circuits one by one until you have isolated the bad one.If they pulled the busses the plane indeed would go silent. It was probably a serious event and they simply were occupied with controlling the plane and trying to fight the fire. Aviate, Navigate and lastly communicate. There are two types of fires. Electrical might not be as fast and furious and there might or might not be incapacitating smoke. However there is the possibility given the timeline that perhaps there was an overheat on one of the front landing gear tires and it blew on takeoff and started slowly burning. Yes this happens with underinflated tires. Remember heavy plane, hot night, sea level, long run takeoff. There was a well known accident in Nigeria of a DC8 that had a landing gear fire on takeoff. A tire fire once going would produce horrific incapacitating smoke. Yes, pilots have access to oxygen masks but this is a no no with fire. Most have access to a smoke hood with a filter but this will only last for a few minutes depending on the smoke level. (I used to carry one of my own in a flight bag and I still carry one in my briefcase today when I fly). What I think happened is that they were overcome by smoke and the plane just continued on  the heading probably on George (autopilot) until either fuel exhaustion or fire destroyed the control surfaces and it crashed. I said four days ago you will find it along that route - looking elsewhere was pointless.   This pilot, as I say, was a hero struggling with an impossible situation trying to get that plane to Langkawi. No doubt in my mind. That's the reason for the turn and direct route. A hijack would not have made that deliberate left turn with a direct heading for Langkawi. It would probably have weaved around a bit until the hijackers decided on where they were taking it ...  Chris Goodfellow's full explanation for his theory is here. It's the simplest and most compelling I've heard yet. UPDATE: We reached out to a couple of 777 pilots to ask what they thought of this theory. They were skeptical. They said the first course of action on a "smoke and fumes" checklist is to put on an oxygen mask — even before turning the plane toward a runway. More details here... FREE AppDownload
Nicholas CarlsonHONG KONG (Reuters) - Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba Group Holding Ltd will hold the kickoff meeting for its planned U.S. initial public offering on March 25, setting in motion the most high-profile listing since Facebook Inc's offering nearly two years ago, sources familiar with the plans said on Tuesday. The company, whose platforms handle more goods than EBay Inc &lt;EBAY.O&gt; and Amazon.com Inc &lt;AMZN.O&gt; combined, will meet with the six main banks arranging the deal, as well as lawyers and other professionals working on the IPO. In the meeting in Hong Kong, Alibaba will discuss their roles and outline plans for the listing, added the sources, who were not authorized to discuss the matter publicly. Alibaba said on Sunday it decided to hold its long-awaited IPO in the United States. It is in discussions with Citigroup &lt;C.N&gt;, Credit Suisse &lt;CSGN.VX&gt;, Deutsche Bank &lt;DBKGn.DE&gt;, Goldman Sachs Group &lt;GS.N&gt;, J.P. Morgan &lt;JPM.N&gt;, and Morgan Stanley &lt;MS.N&gt; for lead underwriting roles. A separate roster of banks to take on second-tier positions on the deal is also expected to be unveiled on Tuesday, one source added. The listing will be closely watched by Alibaba's two largest shareholders - Yahoo Inc &lt;YHOO.O&gt;, which owns 24 percent, and Japan's Softbank Corp &lt;9984.T&gt;, which controls 37 percent. Alibaba's founders and some senior managers jointly own about 13 percent of the company. Alibaba declined to comment on the IPO kickoff meeting. (Reporting by Elzio Barreto; Editing by Denny Thomas and Ryan Woo) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
George Guina of Fort WashakieGood morning! Earlier this morning, markets were basically flat. Not things are turning more red. German stocks are off 0.7%. The UK is off 0.4%. US futures are down a tiny bit. The Chinese stock market was flat. Japan rallied .9%, and Russian stocks, after surging yesterday, are up another 0.6% today. Gold and silver are getting whacked a bit.  In the US we get housing starts and CPI data, both of which are always worth paying attention to. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersBurges, a self-styled cryptocurrency trader and former software engineer from London, holds a placard to protest against Mt. Gox in Tokyo(Reuters) - Mt. Gox, a leading bitcoin exchange that late last month filed for bankruptcy protection, updated its website on Tuesday to allow customers to log in and verify their wallet, or account, balance. The website, which went blank just over three weeks ago, had previously posted occasional updates on Mt. Gox's civil rehabilitation process - a legal procedure that may allow Mt. Gox to rebuild and pay back some of its creditors - as well as a warning that some spam or phishing emails purporting to be from the exchange were in circulation. Mt. Gox filed for bankruptcy protection in Japan on February 28, saying it may have lost 850,000 bitcoins - worth around $520 million at current prices - to hackers. A spokesperson reached via a helpline for Mt. Gox creditors confirmed that Mt. Gox set up the log-in, based on the last available data from the exchange's servers before they shut down. Leaked information from various hacking attacks on Mt. Gox servers and CEO Mark Karpeles' personal blog and Reddit account have been released in recent weeks, and one file purporting to be the company's internal database contained malware that could steal bitcoins once downloaded. Besides the log-in option, the Mt. Gox homepage carried a statement in English and Japanese saying: "Please be aware that confirming the balance on this site does not constitute a filing of rehabilitation claims under the civil rehabilitation procedure and note that the balance amounts shown on this site should also not be considered an acknowledgment by Mt. Gox of the amount of any rehabilitation claims of users." (Reporting by Chris Peters in Bangalore and Sophie Knight in Tokyo; Editing by Ian Geoghegan) FREE AppDownload
