APLONDON (Reuters) - GlaxoSmithKline &lt;GSK.L&gt; on Sunday confirmed the existence an intimate video recording of its former China head Mark Reilly, which the Sunday Times reported kicked off a bribery investigation that has damaged the drugmaker's business in China. The Sunday Times said the recording was shot without Reilly's knowledge or consent at his Shanghai flat and showed Reilly, who is separated from his wife, with his Chinese girlfriend. It was not clear who shot the video or with what motivation. A GSK spokesman confirmed the tape existed but did not comment on how it related to the alleged bribery scandal in which Chinese police have accused Britain's biggest drugmaker of transferring as much as 3 billion yuan ($482 million) through travel agencies to bribe doctors and officials. Reuters was not independently able to verify the link between the tape and the bribery case. Reilly, who last month was charged with corruption, was not available for comment. GSK, which described the bribery allegations as "shameful" when they came to light last year, said on Sunday that it was continuing to cooperate fully with the Chinese authorities on the ongoing investigation. "The issues relating to our China business are very difficult and complicated," it added in a statement. ($1 = 6.2251 Chinese Yuan Renminbi) (Reporting by Ben Hirschler; Editing by Jane Barrett and Diane Craft) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Issei KatoA traffic controller at a constructing site is reflected on a stock quotation board at a brokerage in Tokyo, October 1, 2013.The weekend is over and stocks are up. Japan's Nikkei opened up 0.4%, as did Korea's Kospi index. Australia's S&amp;P/ASX 200 is off 0.3%. U.S. futures were marginally higher. Joe Weisenthal believes the coming blizzard of economic data we get this week could determine the fate of America's future. Click here to read why » FREE AppDownload
ShutterstockGet ready: This week is going to be huge. This holiday-shortened week is going to be jam-packed with economic data, culminating with the grand finale at 8:30 a.m. ET on Thursday, when we get the latest jobs report, and the weekly Initial Jobless Claims report. Earlier in the week we'll be getting construction data, housing data, auto sales data, and manufacturing numbers, all of which will give us a fresh lens through which to see the economy. Now the first week of every month is always packed with data, so in a sense it's a normal week. The fact that the data will be compressed into four days as opposed to five marginally adds to what will make this week so exciting. The real story is that this is truly do-or-die time for the economy. Last week we discovered that in Q1, the U.S. economy shrank a staggering 2.9%, but observers like myself and others, including Goldman Sachs top economist Jan Hatzius, have suggested that current conditions appear to show an economy lifting off and turning in its best performance since the financial crisis. If this week's data is bad, it will suggest that the U.S. economy is not ready for liftoff. And if the U.S. economy isn't ready now, when will it be? There's no particular drag happening from government these days. Much of the economy has normalized? If things are still crappy, and there's actually no strong bounceback from Q1, a re-assessment of the current U.S. economic potential might be in order. If this week's data is good, then it's a different story. Either way, by Thursday afternoon, we'll know much more about what's going on. FREE AppDownload
APASXGood morning! It’s a huge week ahead – here’s what you need to know… 1. On the global front it’s a four-day week for the US with the July 4th holiday falling on Friday. This means the usual busy first week of the month is squeezed into four days, leading up to the jobs report on Thursday night – meaning the Asian markets will be trading on the data while it’s still hot on Friday morning. This and other data this week, including the Chicago PMI tomorrow, should indicate whether the solid leading indicators of recent weeks really are pointing to the big upswing in the US economy that we’ve been waiting for. Also on Thursday night, there’s the ECB rate decision and Mario Draghi’s accompanying press conference where we’ll get an update on progress in Europe. 2. In Australia and Asia we are also getting a flood of data, including AiG PMI tomorrow, May retail sales on Thursday, and of course the RBA’s decision on interest rates tomorrow. There’s no change in the target cash rate expected but as usual the markets will be watching the governor’s statement closely for any indications on shifts in the board’s thinking on the economy’s progress, especially the continuing strength of the dollar. This morning the battler was trading at US94.24c. 3. The retail sales data for May will be of particular interest in Australia: the month was an exceptionally warm start to the summer, and it was also the month of the spectacular fall in consumer confidence triggered by the federal budget. Several retailers have sounded warnings about the potential impact of the fiscal tightening on their business. A Bloomberg survey of economists late last week found the market expecting a rise of 0.1% for the month. We’ll see on Thursday. 4. To the markets and ASX futures are pointing to a slight rise on the open, after the US markets clawed their way into the black in Friday trade. The Dow was flat, the S&amp;P up 0.2% and the Nasdaq up 0.4%.The big move on Friday was in the Nikkei, which fell almost 1.4% on Friday thanks to a big break in USDJPY triggered by strong May retail trade data and national CPI hitting 3.7%. 5. Tony Abbott’s next policy challenge will be dealing with a huge push from his backbenchers for a change to the Renewable Energy Target, which is currently under a review led by Dick Warburton. The Australian reports this morning that 25 Coalition MPs will write to Abbott urging him to consider dramatic revisions to the scheme which would exempt power-intensive industries. The RET current aims to have 20% of Australia’s power requirements come from solar and wind by 2020. 6. Middle East power struggles. After the “Arab Spring”, we now have “Jihadi Spring”, with Libya devolving into lawlessness, Egypt reverting to dictatorship, and the conflict in Syria spilling into a sectarian civil war in Iraq. The ISIS militants who have been capturing towns across Iraq and carrying out mass executions have now declared the creation of an Islamic State, or Caliphate, with ISIS leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi as its leader. It’s a direct challenge to the primacy of al-Qaeda, and ISIS is well-funded. There’s more here. 7. Todd Carney’s NRL career is over. Surely. Please. This prince of football idiots has been released from Cronulla after allowing himself to be photographed “ bubbling” at the urinal in Sutherland Shire nightclub Northies. He had three years to run on his $650,000 a year contract. So what is bubbling? WARNING: The thought alone is scarring enough, but the picturecannot be unseen. (Really, you don’t need to see it.) 8. World Cup update. The Dutch are through to the quarter-finals after beating Mexico 2-1 thanks to a hugely controversial stoppage time penalty. Arjen Robben took a fall in the box after contact with a Mexican defender – he made a bit of a meal of it, but the ref blew the whistle and pointed to the spot. In today’s other game, Costa Rica just beat Greece on penalties. 9. Drones and privacy. Drones are a booming growth sector, with the technology already delivering huge benefits to the military and film-making, and great promise for delivering industrial-scale wireless internet connectivity as well as delivery systems for everything from books to pizzas. But authorities are grappling with the regulatory requirements and here’s a great example of the kinds of issues it raises: a woman in the US who saw a drone hovering outside her apartment while she was getting changed. 10. Memes that make money. They’re the stars of YouTube who, for the most part unwittingly, have a steady flow of income rolling in from eternally rising view counts. Here’s how much money viral stars such as Grumpy Cat, Double Rainbow Guy and Tay Zonday have earned from their brush with fame. Also, Technoviking bonus update. Have a cracking day. I’m on Twitter:@colgo FREE AppDownload

REUTERS/Yves HermanPeople leave BNP Paribas Fortis headquarters in Brussels September 18, 2013.PARIS/NEW YORK (Reuters) - The U.S. Justice Department is expected to announce on Monday a settlement with BNP Paribas &lt;BNPP.PA&gt; involving a record fine of nearly $9 billion over alleged U.S. sanctions violations by France’s biggest bank, sources familiar with the matter said.  The penalties, which the sources said may also include a temporary ban on some dollar-clearing business, could hit BNP's dividend payout, regulatory capital ratios and its investment banking targets, analysts say. BNP is expected to plead guilty to a criminal charge in Manhattan Federal Court on Monday and the U.S. Justice Department is planning a news conference in Washington to announce a deal the same day, sources said. However the lender is expected to retain its banking license from the New York state banking regulator after negotiations which, according to sources close to the matter, at one point raised the prospect of an even bigger fine up to $16 billion. "I want to say it clearly here: we will receive a heavy penalty," BNP Chief Executive Officer Jean-Laurent Bonnafe told staff in an internal message sent on June 27 and seen by Reuters. "However, the difficulties that we are currently experiencing must not affect our plans for the future." The bank has not commented publicly on the case since it warned shareholders on May 14 that the fine could be stiffer than the $1.1 billion for which it originally provisioned. A BNP spokeswoman declined to comment. U.S. authorities are examining whether BNP evaded U.S. sanctions relating primarily to Sudan between 2002 and 2009, sources have said. A $9 billion fine, not far short of BNP's entire 2013 pretax income of about 8.2 billion euros ($11.2 billion), would be the largest penalty paid by a European bank to date for violations of sanctions imposed by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, Morgan Stanley analysts said. BNP has only said publicly that it is in discussions with U.S. authorities about "certain U.S. dollar payments involving countries, persons and entities that could have been subject to economic sanctions". Last month it said it had improved control processes to ensure mistakes did not occur again. 'FAIR AND PROPORTIONATE' French President Francois Hollande has appealed to his counterpart Barack Obama to ensure any penalty is fair and does not have repercussions for Europe's economy. Obama has replied that it is purely a matter for the judiciary. "If there are sanctions, the government wants them to be fair and proportionate. It's important," French Economy Minister Arnaud Montebourg told French broadcaster BFM TV on Sunday. The investigation of BNP operations has turned up billions of dollars of transfers involving the bank that specifically violated U.S. sanctions, one source has said. Bonnafe inherited a bank that emerged relatively unscathed from the economic crisis and sought to raise revenues outside its traditional European markets just as tougher financial regulation made banking a less profitable business. The New York State Department of Financial Services, headed by Benjamin Lawsky, proposed the suspension of dollar-clearing operations as one condition for not revoking the license, Reuters reported last month. BNP is likely to be suspended from converting foreign currencies to dollars on behalf of clients for some businesses as long as a year, sources have told Reuters. A source familiar with the matter said on Sunday this would mainly involve oil- and gas-financing. Two sources said on Sunday the ban would not go into effect for another six months in order to let the bank and clients arrange other plans. One source said the settlement would include termination of about a dozen employees and disciplinarian action for others.  Shares in BNP have fallen 17 percent since it first announced a $1.1 billion provision for the fine in mid-February on concerns the penalties could be big enough to restrict its dividends and hit its capital ratio to below 10 percent - a level seen as key to staying out of the danger zone under tighter post-financial crisis guidelines. (Additional reporting by Sybille de la Hamaide and Matthias Blamont in Paris, Steve Slater in London, Aruna Viswanatha in Washington and Richard Leong in New York; Editing by Mark John and Paul Simao) FREE AppDownload
Getty ImagesDeeb Salem may well emerge as the poster child for how not to negotiate a great salary and bonus. The former Goldman Sachs mortgage-backed securities trader was extraordinarily well-paid, even by Wall Street standards. During six years as a mortgage-trading wunderkind at Goldman, he walked away with some $35 million — yes, that's in American dollars — in compensation. In one memorable year Salem earned $15 million — even more than more than the $9 million bonus of CEO Lloyd Blankfein. But while Salem was a savvy enough trader to make billions of dollars for Goldman, he was a crap negotiator. He believes his bonus was $8.25 million too low — much less, he complains, than the $13 million he promised his mother he would earn. That’s why the New York supreme court is hearing his plea that the bank owes him another $16 million. You don't need to be worried about your $8.25 million bonus to learn something from the cautionary tale of Deeb Salem. Even if we win the lottery, odds are most of us will never see the kind of money that Salem has pocketed at the tender age of 35. He can afford to make foolish mistakes when it comes to negotiating his pay, like trusting the whispered promises of superiors who sidle up beside him, cocktail in hand, to tell him that he is a “steal” at $15 million a year in bonus money. (Hearing that you're underpaid at $15 million a year can really corrupt a person's view of his contribution.) He can afford to alienate current and former employers by suing Goldman Sachs for what he believes he’s owed, and claiming Blankfein didn’t understand what Salem’s trading desk was doing. We can’t. What we can do is to learn from the mistakes that Salem has made as we try to negotiate our way to better compensation packages — even if they’re smaller than his by several zeroes. First of all, watch out for the ego factor. It’s true that some of us may go into salary negotiations undervaluing ourselves — that, along with a failure to do enough research, is one of the most frequently cited reasons for the gender pay gap. But it’s just as common for an employer to become wary of a candidate who strikes them an egotistical and entitled jerk. That’s one thing on Wall Street — where the stakes are more expensive — but it's true in your workplace too. Elsewhere, warning signals will flash for managers if you start demanding business-class travel when everyone else flies coach, insisting on a certain title, or a week more of vacation than anyone else in the company earns. Salem couldn't convince himself to work for less than $8.25 million, the same way Linda Evangelista once humblebragged that she wouldn't get out of bed for less than $10,000 a day. By all means, know what your “no go” number is — the salary figure below which switching jobs, or taking this job, simply doesn’t make financial sense. You don’t want to settle for too little. On the other hand, you don’t want establish unrealistic salary requirements and not budge. It’s called a negotiation for a reason: you have to go back and forth. Don't trust the great things your bosses say at cocktail parties, or by the watercooler. Don't trust the promises made in passing that get your hopes high. Get it in writing, whether “it” is the promise of a bonus or a full-on job offer. All Salem had in writing was the employment offer he signed when he joined Goldman that stated bonuses were paid at the firm’s discretion. He was never going to get a written promise of that $15 million he was supposedly worth, and he shouldn't have counted on it. It was all talk: that’s why he got a “mere” $8.25 million on bonus day. In his arbitration hearing, he claimed other investment banks were lining up to hire him almost from the day he started working on Wall Street. Where were those written offers? One member of that panel later called Salem’s case “bulls--t”. A written job offer is a statement of your market value: how much your talents are worth. When you’ve got a written offer, you’ve got leverage. Your possible future employers have shown their hand: they have demonstrated that they want to hire you and told you how much they value you. They’ve made the first move. Someone I know was just recruited for a job that she was genuinely ambivalent about taking on. She dithered after receiving the formal offer, for reasons that had nothing to do with money. That just made the company more eager to hire her. It was clear to them that she wasn’t playing games — that she was genuinely uncertain. So they sweetened the pot. Again and again. When she finally came aboard, the CFO told her — to her astonishment — that he’d never encountered a tougher negotiator. All of this requires careful maneuvering, as does eliciting a counteroffer from your current employer – which you can then accept, or use to parlay into a still higher offer from the potential new company you’ve been talking to. If you try the latter strategy, remember that your employer may well decide not to counter the offer, so (a) don’t bring them an offer that is only verbal; (b) don’t do it unless you’re prepared to walk out the door (there’s nothing worse than having to confess that actually, you’d rather like to keep your current job and salary, thanks very much); and (c) don’t do it repeatedly. Someone I know pulled this off three times in a row, staying put each time at a progressively higher salary. But she won the wrong kind of reputation for herself, alienating prospective employers and making her current boss feel resentful and manipulated. She ended up leaving her company for a different industry altogether. In any company, you have a few windows during which you can try to renegotiate your compensation levels. The first — and biggest — of these opportunities is when you first join the company, so don’t squander it by not doing your research before you start those negotiations: all your raises and bonuses will be based on how well you do in those negotiations. After that, there will be smaller opportunities from time to time: when you have a competing offer, in the wake of an extremely good performance review or if you’ve been asked to take on significant new responsibilities. Use them carefully and well — and don’t throw a temper tantrum over a few million dollars if you’ve already been out-earning your CEO. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk.  FREE AppDownload
Everyone is debating how long the Fed will continue to hold rates down.  Pantheon Macro's Ian Shepherdson is out with a chart showing that for the past 25 years, it's actually been quite simple to predict when the central bank is likely to do so: wage growth acceleration. He explains why: From the Fed’s perspective, the logic is simple enough. In a cost-push inflation model with a 2% target, unit labor costs need to be contained in the medium-term to 2% growth. Allowing for productivity growth of about 2%—the average since 1960 is 2.1%—that means wage growth can’t run above 4%. Here's a fitted plot of month-over-month average hourly earnings versus the benchmark rate, with Shepherdson's forecast. Pantheon So, what can we expect right now? Because things have been so bad and strange since the Great Recession, Shepherdson says, we may start to see some disconnect in this correlation even as wage growth has begun to tick up recently. But not that much:  We get the idea that the initial uptick in wage gains won’t prompt an immediate policy response because the Fed has been unnerved by the persistent sluggishness in the numbers. Dr. Yellen has made it clear that some pick-up in wage gains would be welcomed. But that does not mean the Fed will be able to maintain its extraordinarily accommodative stance if wage growth accelerates as rapidly as we expect.   We recommend reading this piece from the Wall Street Journal on the full state of the rate-raising debate.  FREE AppDownload
Harvard UniversityThe ancient Greek mathematician and engineer Heron of Alexandria designed the earliest known wind turbine in the first century AD. For all that’s happened in the ensuing two millennia, his technology hasn’t changed much. Now, though, a team of Harvard researchers has found a way to update the turbines, which these days are being increasingly used to generate electricity. The blades of the new turbines look like metal, but what you see is merely a sheath over a core of extremely low-tech balsa wood. The point of using balsa, even today, is that it’s very light yet very stiff, which is ideal for a wind turbine. But although the balsa tree grows quickly, its wood is rare, and like many other trees it’s getting rarer, and therefore more expensive. Fully 95 percent of the wood comes from the forests of Ecuador. And being a natural product, it’s structure isn’t perfectly geometrical. Variations in its grain can interfere with the ever-increasing need for the blades to operate smoothly and precisely. After all, some turbine blades are more than 80 feet long and have to be virtually maintenance-free to generate electricity without interruption. In a paper published online in the journal Advanced Materials, the researchers report that they’ve developed cellular composite materials that mimic balsa wood. They are extremely light and extremely stiff and actually appear to be better than balsa for wind turbines. In fact, the teams from the Harvard School of Engineering and Applied Sciences (SEAS) and the Wyss Institute for Biologically Inspired Engineering say they outperform even the highest-quality polymers and polymer composites now being made by 3-D printers. Related Article: When the Wind Doesn’t Blow Harvard UniversityThe Harvard and Wyss researchers used special fiber-reinforced, epoxy-based resins that, when heated, can be molded only once. Then, for the first time, they ran them through a 3-D extrusion printer. Until now, such printers have been used only for the kinds of resins and plastics that aren’t considered suitable for structural applications. “By moving into new classes of materials like epoxies, we open up new avenues for using 3-D printing to construct lightweight architectures,” says principal investigator Jennifer A. Lewis, the Hansjörg Wyss Professor of Biologically Inspired Engineering at Harvard SEAS. “Essentially, we are broadening the materials palate for 3D printing.” Lewis said the key to balsa’s light weight and great strength is that the wood is mostly empty space, and what’s not empty is its rigid cell walls: “We've borrowed this design concept and mimicked it in an engineered composite.” Harvard UniversityThe report says the 3-D printing process can be used to create many other valuable materials with applications in many fields, including the automotive industry, where strong, light materials can help in the design of vehicles with greater fuel efficiency. One estimate says removing 110 pounds from each of the 1 billion cars on the planet could save $40 billion in fuel costs. FREE AppDownload
Last year I was one of the very few who suggested that the implementation of Obamacare could cause a recession (see more below). Such a suggestion was universally dismissed by all right-thinking economists, and for very good reasons based in sound economic theory, I might add. But sometimes the real world neglects to adhere to our models and theories, and that was my concern. While I doubt we’ll see a recession – classically understood as two quarters in a row of negative GDP – this rather large bump in the road offers a number of teaching opportunities. This week’s letter will look at the actual numbers; and then, rather than try to spin the numbers to fit some preconceived political agenda, we will examine what actually happened in the spending data and why. And while it may surprise some of you, I actually think a few good things did happen, things I find encouraging. Anytime I write about healthcare it’s controversial, and I expect this letter will be received that way as well. However, as I (and many others) have clearly established, the healthcare system in the United States is massively dysfunctional. We are simply spending too much money on healthcare and are on a path to spending an unsustainable amount of money by the end of the decade. Things are going to change no matter what. The Affordable Care Act (ACA or Obamacare) was one way to try to address the problem. The majority of the country now feels this might not have been the best way, but that really doesn’t make any difference. It is going to be the basic law for another three to four years. My job, at least in this letter, is not to discuss policy but rather the economic effects of the policies we have chosen to implement, and what those effects may mean for our investment portfolios. GDP Shocker: a Drop of 2.9%! First, let’s look just at the facts as given to us by the BLS. US Q1 GDP Q/Q was revised much lower, to -2.9% on an annualized basis, down from the -1.0% previously reported (which itself was revised lower from the +0.1% initially reported) and well below the expected decline of -1.8%. How did we go from barely positive to down 2.9%? When the BLS gives us its first estimate of previous-quarter GDP, it is forced to use models based on previous trends until the actual data comes in. This is why we get two monthly revisions and in future years will get even further revisions. (Sidebar: don’t you wish the US Bureau of Labor Statistics could be as good as their Chinese counterparts? The Chinese never have to revise their numbers. Obviously they are very good at this type of thing.) And we all know that assumptions will sometimes bite you in the derrière. Look at this chart of projected healthcare spending from the original release of first-quarter GDP data in April. Notice that the projected spending was almost double what it had been just the previous quarter and over four times the previous year’s average. I’m not quite certain how trend models got to that number, but then I’m not a mathematician. In any event, here’s the chart, courtesy of Zero Hedge:  Now fast-forward to last week’s revision and notice that the healthcare spending number has dropped from the previous quarter, not doubled. In fact, it dropped an enormous 6.4%. Rather than contributing 0.62% to GDP is it did in the fourth quarter of 2013, in Q1 2014 it subtracted 0.16% from GDP growth.  Just for the record, here are the actual numbers from the BLS data. Roughly 2/3 of the negative revision in Q1 GDP was from healthcare spending, and the rest was from falling exports and rising imports (from an accounting standpoint, imports are a negative in figuring GDP).  I want us to look quickly at two charts to get some historical perspective on growth in the US. The first is GDP quarter by quarter for the last seven years. Notice that only two quarters ago we had a 4.1% positive quarter. During the 19 quarters since the current expansion began in June 2009, the economy has grown at an annual rate of 2.1%, compared to the 4.1% average in every other expansion since 1960.  In fact, rather than the comfortable +3% from 1950 through 2000, growth fell to +1.9% for the entire decade of the aughts and has not risen appreciably above that in the last four years. Here is a chart showing the rolling four-quarter average for GDP growth since 1980. With last quarter’s negative revision included, we’ve only grown 1.6% for the last 12 months. Dude, who stole my productivity?  The New Normal of Healthcare Spending On October 6, 2013, I penned a rather lengthy discussion of the economic impact of the Affordable Care Act. I still think it was one of the better pieces I have written. You can read it here. I offered an analysis of what healthcare will look like within a few years. Essentially, we are moving to a three-tiered system. Somewhere between 3 to 5% of people will have what is coming to be known as concierge care, another 20% or so will have what we think of as traditional insurance, and the remaining 75% will get by with some form of government-mandated and -controlled healthcare (with high deductibles and increasing costs). I titled the letter I wrote back in October “The Road to a New Medical Order.” Business Insider, which posts my letter each week (a surprising number of people think I actually write for them, which is fine by me, I guess) generally tries to come up with impactful and somewhat controversial headlines to attract readers. Their headline over my piece was “Obama Care Will Change Everything – And I Think It Might Cause a Recession.” And yes, buried deep in the article I did write: When I am asked what keeps me up at night about our economy, my ready answer for the past few months has been the unknown transition costs associated with the ACA. I hope Jack Rivkin is right and that the transition to Obamacare proves to be just another Y2K. I truly believe that healthcare will be significantly better in 10 years, largely due to advances in technology, but also as we streamline our healthcare delivery. So I’m a long-term optimist, though I have to confess that, in the short term, which would be through the last half of 2014, I am quite concerned that dislocating 1 to 2% of the economy could be enough to push us into recession. I have nothing factual to base that on – no inverted yield curve, no evident bubble getting ready to burst – so I will stop far short of a prediction. Let’s just say that these issues need to be right up front on our radar screens. And it wouldn't hurt to keep our fingers crossed. Let’s run through a quick summary of my analysis then – which is the same as how I see things today. We are going to reduce the amount of money we spend on healthcare by around 1% of GDP a year for the next four years, or about 5% per year in actual reductions. While right-thinking economists will point out that that money will be spent elsewhere, and they are correct, my concern was – and it is evidently turning out to be pretty correct – that the transition will be messy. I simply do not believe that you can change the “plumbing” of how healthcare dollars are spent, totally change the incentive structure, and demand more service for 20% fewer dollars while reducing the number of workers at hospitals, without serious short-term dislocations. Like we saw last quarter. Will all this wash out over the next few years? Absolutely. We are not on some permanent healthcare spending death march where quarter by quarter healthcare spending will keep dropping. It is just, to borrow a phrase from my friend Mohamed El-Erian, that we are entering into a New Normal of Healthcare Spending. And eventually that money that we are not spending on healthcare will get spent on something else, and those people that are not employed in the healthcare industry will find other jobs or end up taking less pay for doing the same job. But it is the turmoil created in the midst of that process that is going to create some ups and downs in the economy (more on that later). I have regular conversations with numerous friends about what’s happening in the healthcare world, as I think that is where the real action is. For an economist, this is a wonderful experiment in incentive structures. And if you are an economist worth your salt, you know that economics is all about incentives. Individuals have an incentive to maximize their healthcare services and reduce their actual out-of-pocket expenses. Healthcare businesses have an incentive to make sure that expenses don’t exceed revenues. And the ACA is nothing if it is not an enormous incentive-changing machine. Jack Rivkin sent me a note yesterday detailing a conversation he had recently with a healthcare provider. (I’ll remove names, just in case.) Had a great 3 hour dinner discussion in Chicago three weeks ago with the head of the … Hospital. He realizes he’s at the bottom of the food chain but is very excited about what is happening. First dinner with him was three years ago when he was just beginning. He’s substantially changing the mix of his work force. That includes doctors who are now employees, not independent business folks. He has made the switch to outcomes-oriented medicine and is looking to become his own insurance company where he believes the big ripoff has been taking place. You should hear what he has to say about Blue Cross/Blue Shield and the people running it. He is tired of getting paid for procedures as opposed to outcomes, e.g., [he’s] down from using 7 different types of hip replacements to 3, based on those with the best long-term success. The doctors were told you either switch to what we have chosen or find another hospital. Actually “fired” some doctors when the data showed what a high rate of repetition [their] patients had. That complaint about insurance companies is showing up a lot. Here’s a section from a great little article by Jake Novak at CNBC called “An Obamacare bailout? Insurers already got one!” Whether the ACA has actually helped more citizens than it's hurt has turned into a partisan war of statistics. That war will be waged for years to come. While I believe the new law will ultimately hurt more people than it helps, I realize those on the other side of the political spectrum will never agree with that assessment. So let's not have that fruitless argument. Instead let's focus on something the two major political camps can agree on, even if it is something that will make both of them very angry. Based on the non-partisan, hard numbers, the big winners in Obamacare America are… drumroll please… the insurance companies! Yes, those greedy, heartless, bureaucratic, and anti-competitive health-insurance companies that President Obama kinda sorta blamed for his mother's death and Republicans blasted for seeking a bailout, and doctors accused of interfering with their medical judgment are all still alive and kicking in the 2014 world of the ACA. Of course, insurance companies would simply argue that they’re playing by the rules and that they’re having a really difficult time making profits. Most insurance plans under Obamacare are going to rise significantly in cost later this year or next year. Again, we find out something about incentives. It should be no surprise that a significant number of people with serious health issues who had no insurance have now signed up for the new healthcare programs. Lanhee Chen on the BloombergView site sees it this way: At its base, the data show that people insured through the law’s exchanges have higher rates of serious medical conditions. Of the enrollees who have seen a doctor or other health-care provider in the first quarter of this year, 27 percent have significant medical problems, including diabetes, cancer, heart trouble and psychiatric conditions. That rate is substantially higher than that for patients in nonexchange market plans over the same period. And it’s more than double the rate of those who were able to hold onto their existing individual market insurance plans after President Barack Obama was forced to allow them to keep them. This outcome should not surprise anyone. The law’s one-size-fits-all regulatory regime, which requires insurers to offer coverage to all comers and prohibits pricing of coverage based on an applicant’s health status, was bound to increase the number of relatively sicker people purchasing insurance through the exchanges. Moreover, Obama’s executive action, which effectively allowed many people who had individual market plans to remain in them through at least 2016, bifurcated the insurance markets such that healthier people remained in the plans they already had, while relatively sicker patients were left to acquire coverage through the Affordable Care Act’s exchanges. Some of the bad risk in the exchanges has been offset by the enrollment of relatively healthy people who acquired coverage because of the law’s generous subsidies. Yet the numbers make clear that the exchanges remain a haven for those who may consume more medical services than others. (Bloomberg) The ACA is going to be enormously contentious, as the rules are conflicting as to how insurers can make up their losses. President Obama would like to do it one way that he thinks is allowed within the rules, but there are many in Congress who think that’s a bailout for insurance companies and is against the rules. However it plays out, the ACA is going to cost someone, whether it’s taxpayers or those buying insurance, a great deal more money than initially budgeted. And the insurers will continue to be everybody’s favorite whipping boy. As an aside, I find it an enormously intriguing idea that a healthcare hospital group is seriously thinking about setting up its own insurance company. You gotta love America, 100 different experiments going on at once. Some of them are sure to be game changers. Why Healthcare Spending Went Down My contacts in hospitals and elsewhere in the healthcare industry confirm that healthcare spending was down dramatically (though perhaps not quite the 6.4% in the data) in the first quarter. These same sources suggest that healthcare spending has rebounded during the second quarter. The first week of June was actually the best week ever for one major healthcare provider, but the overall trend is still for somewhat lower healthcare spending than last year. So what happened in the first quarter? Evidently, several things. Number one, if you haven’t noticed, the deductibles for most of the ACA programs were quite high, often running as much as $5000 (which, for what it’s worth, is the deductible on my own insurance program – buying a lower deductible is significantly more expensive than simply paying the higher deductible. Go figure.) The high deductibles were a shock to many people who were used to more-traditional health insurance. They postponed some services and started looking for transparency of pricing for the more expensive services. It is no longer uncommon for a patient to ask for a prescription for an MRI that they can take to another provider across the street who will charge them half of what the hospital provider will. If you’re paying it out of pocket, you begin to pay attention to what you’re paying. I think we should applaud that increase in transparency. To those points, Dr. Toby Cosgrove, CEO of Cleveland Clinic, recently noted: The entire healthcare system will have less money coming into it – we are taking costs out, so will all hospitals.... Obamacare is accelerating the process.... but this is due to transparency of costs and consumer[s] with high-deductible plans. This is a huge social experiment involving almost 18% of GDP and 100% of people... this will take four to five years to shake out.” Further, there were a lot of people who didn’t get Obamacare insurance in the first few months and had to wait until March or April for their insurance to kick in. Other people have lost their insurance inexplicably because insurers are losing control of their internal management systems amid all the turmoil. People are postponing what they can until their insurance kicks in or gets reinstated. Apparently, some of this has gotten sorted out in the second quarter, and healthcare spending is on a trajectory to the “new normal,” which may eventually be about 20% less than what we spend today. Muddle Through Economy Redux  I still think the next shoe to drop may be in the third and fourth quarter when hospitals begin to realize that they have significant cash-flow problems. Estimates are that we have about 10% too many hospitals, and the creative destruction of the new healthcare system is going to relieve us of that excess. Only the strong and well-managed will survive. This is of course going to create turmoil in the whole healthcare employment world, etc., etc. Further, Obamacare is the largest middle-class tax increase in history. Yes, enrollees are getting healthcare for their additional expenditures, but you get extra government services for an increase in regular taxes. Call it a premium or call it a tax, it still amounts to a reduction in disposable income for individuals and families. Tax increases have a negative effect on the economy equal to roughly three times their actual amount. We have gone over that research numerous times. And that negative effect doesn’t come all at once but is actually spread out over about three years, so the Obamacare taxes will still be creating a headwind to growth this year and next. Further, although the president has postponed some of the “features” of the ACA, such as the business mandates, they are going to kick in eventually. We’ve already seen a rather large rise in temporary employment as employers shed full-time employees so they don’t have to cover their insurance. We’re going to see more such unintentional consequences, because that’s just where the incentives are. This will of course create even more headwinds for growth and productivity. We would have to achieve 3% GDP growth in each of the next three quarters simply to average 2% for 2014. If you go back and look at the chart on US real GDP growth, you will notice that we haven’t grown that consistently since the recovery began in 2009. GDP growth has been rather noisy. We are at best in a slow-growth Muddle Through economy. And the problem is that consumers are getting hammered from all directions: incomes are roughly flat and core expenses are rising. Returning to the BLS GDP report, we see that inflation was 1.3% in the first quarter as measured by personal consumption expenditures (PCE). One of the “checks and balances” I like to look at when thinking about PCE is what the Dallas Federal Reserve calls the “trimmed mean PCE inflation rate.” Basically they take all the components of inflation in the PCE (which is the Fed’s preferred measure of inflation) and remove the “outliers” (trimming them off, as it were) to smooth out the noise. And sure enough, when you go back and look at the one-month PCE inflation rates for the first quarter, 1.3% seems to be close enough for government work. But then when you look at the chart of what’s happened since then, you see a rather sharp rise in PCE. If that inflation shows up in the BLS statistics next quarter, in their first measure of Q2 GDP (which we will see in late July), it could reduce overall real GDP growth by about 1%. Just saying.  Sidebar: It is all well and good for Janet Yellen to talk about how noisy inflation is and therefore ignore it, but in the things that you and I buy there are what economists call “inelastic” items, which means that we have to buy them no matter what the price – things like food and gas and healthcare. We can talk about whether the overall inflation rate for the entire economy is low, but for the mass of consumers in the middle, inflation is running considerably higher than 1.3%. All this is to say that while I don’t think the US will fall into an “official recession” next quarter, we are extremely vulnerable to “exogenous shocks.” If either China or Europe has a serious problem, or the price of oil increases dramatically for this or that geopolitical reason, then, with the economy flying barely above stall speed, it wouldn’t take much to push us into a recession. We need to have our antennae up in a world where the biggest bull market seems to be in complacency. Let’s wrap this session up with a cautionary note from my friend Rich Yamarone (aka Darth Vader) According to the latest data from the Bureau of Economic Analysis, there has never been a time in history that year-over-year gross domestic income has been at its current pace (2.6 percent) without the U.S. economy ultimately falling into recession. That’s more than 50 years of history, which is about as good as one could ever hope for in an economic indicator. Stay tuned. The Frontiers of Life Extension Science Since we are on the subject of healthcare, let me throw in an additional “bonus note” that my friend Pat Cox, who writes Transformational Technology Alert for Mauldin Economics, sent out to the readers of his free technology updates. Pat and I have regular discussions about the latest discoveries on the very cutting edge of technology and especially biotechnology. This is one of the things that keeps me optimistic, because I think that in 10 to 15 years technology will have totally transformed our healthcare delivery systems and significantly reduced the cost in the system, because we will be healthier and there will be cures for some of the most expensive diseases – we’ll actually be fighting back against the ravages of old age. At least that’s my hope as I approach my 65th birthday in a few months. So let’s look at this fascinating and rather optimistic piece of research that Pat has come across. (More and more, biotechnology is coming to resemble the science fiction that I read.) By the way, if you like what you read, you can subscribe to get his regular updates for free at this link. By Patrick Cox In the article below, I discuss work on the frontiers of life-extension science, including the importance of growth differentiation factor 11 (GDF11), and my friendship with the brilliant writer Robert Heinlein. There’s an obscure reference to me in Robert Heinlein’s (RAH) book To Sail Beyond the Sunset. It came about due to something I said to him in the home he built in Bonny Doon, California. RAH had asked me to write an article about him and his soon-to-be-published book, The Cat Who Walks Through Walls, for the Wall Street Journal. So I chose the wine, and his wife Ginny cooked several meals that day as the conversation extended into the morning hours. Pixel, the cat that inspired the book title, was there as well. If you’re interested, I'm pretty sure the article I wrote can be found online if you search for my and his names. The Cat Who Walks Through Walls is interesting for several reasons. One is that it may be viewed as a sequel to Heinlein's The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress, though it also continues story lines found in The Number of the Beast. As such, one of the main characters in the book is Lazarus Long, who first appeared in Methuselah’s Children. As the name of that book implies, it involves extremely long-lived characters. Heinlein gave two explanations for his characters’ longevity. One was selectively bred genetics. The other was periodic blood transfusions from very young donors. Of course, we’re talking about science fiction, so nobody really believed that young blood could extend lives. If they had, it would have certainly been a simple hypothesis to test. In fact, 73 years after Methuselah’s Children was serialized in Astounding Science Fiction, the experiment was performed last month at the Stanford University School of Medicine – using mice.  Interestingly, the senior author of the Stanford blood study, Tony Wyss-Coray, PhD, noted that the experiment could have been done 20 years ago. Actually, it could have been done long before that. The procedure was relatively simple. The team gave 18-month-old mice components of blood from 3-month-old mice eight times in 24 days. Then they gave the aged mice a kind of rodent IQ or memory test, which showed significant improvements. The overview of the study, published in the journal Nature, states: As human lifespan increases, a greater fraction of the population is suffering from age-related cognitive impairments, making it important to elucidate a means to combat the effects of aging. Here we report that exposure of an aged animal to young blood can counteract and reverse pre-existing effects of brain aging at the molecular, structural, functional and cognitive level. Genome-wide microarray analysis of heterochronic parabionts – in which circulatory systems of young and aged animals are connected – identified synaptic plasticity–related transcriptional changes in the hippocampus of aged mice. In other words, the brains of the older mice given transfusions of plasma (the cell-free portion of blood from the young mice) did not simply perform better, they exhibited physical signs of a reversal of aging. Clearly, this is a pretty big deal. To reiterate the last sentence of the summary: “Our data indicate that exposure of aged mice to young blood late in life is capable of rejuvenating synaptic plasticity and improving cognitive function.” Many of the stories about the Stanford study focused on the likelihood that specific factors in the young blood responsible for the rejuvenation can probably be isolated and used on their own. A prime suspect is the protein expressed by the growth differentiation factor 11 (GDF11) gene. GDF11 protein production decreases with age; prior research has shown that it has rejuvenating effects in parts of the body other than the brain. I’ve written several times in my weekly alerts, for example, about the Amy Wagers and Richard Lee Harvard experiment. Reported in Cell, it showed that age-related damage to heart muscle in older mice will reverse when GDF11 proteins are transferred from younger mice. This is of enormous interest to researchers because, as you probably know, heart muscle does not normally regenerate in older animals. It’s not surprising, therefore, that Wyss-Coray is the cofounder of Alkahest, a biotech startup exploring the possibility of commercializing some therapy based on his experiments. I don’t think that Alkahest is likely to be the leader in this field, however. The reason is that therapies based on the Wyss-Coray experiments would be less than optimal. If you are given an exogenous dose of a naturally occurring protein, it tends to upset the regulatory axis that balances all the interactive and complex forces at work in our bodies. I’m convinced, therefore, that there are better ways to restore rejuvenating GDF11 to youthful levels. One way is to introduce youthful stem cells, engineered from the patient’s own induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs), which express GDF11 at high levels. Induced Pluripotent Stem Cells One of the most exciting developments in modern medicine is the creation of induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells. As it happens, I’ve had skin cells taken from inside my left arm transformed into iPS cells by one of the companies in our portfolio. Those iPS cells are identical to the embryonic stem cells that I came from. Because they have my DNA, there’s no chance of immune rejection, which is one of the advantages they have over cells derived from embryonic stem cell lines. My iPS cells were then engineered to become youthful heart muscle cells. Based on animal experiments, we have every reason to believe that those cells would become part of my body and repair any damage that my heart may have suffered. Here’s a shot of my youthful cardiomyocytes beating in the lab.  Those same iPSCs, however, could also be engineered to become the type of cell, already developed and patented, that produces high levels of GDF11. Placed into my circulatory system, they would replicate and produce their rejuvenating proteins permanently. This would eliminate the need for periodic transfusion or pills. Another method, owned by a different company in the portfolio, is to put DNA plasmids engineered to express GDF11 into a group of cells so that they permanently produce the protein. This type of therapy is inevitable. Friends of mine who keep track of high-end anti-aging clinics tell me that extremely wealthy clients are paying for youthful blood transfusions right now. The cost, they tell me, is astronomical. Superior results, however, could be attained using induced pluripotent stem cells or DNA vaccines for far less money. It’s ironic that most ancient cultures and religions seemed to treat young blood as a sacred symbol of power and life. Historically, there are many stories about victors and vampires who drank blood to acquire youth and strength. Ancient instincts were correct, however, in that youthful, healthy blood does have power, as the ancient kings and warlords of mythology believed. There’s a race going on right now to see who delivers that power and life first. As Dr. Wyss-Coray noted in the paper about his experiment, “As human lifespan increases, a greater fraction of the population is suffering from age-related cognitive impairments, making it important to elucidate a means to combat the effects of aging.” Personally, I suspect that Alzheimer’s and other sources of cognitive impairments will be cured in the next decade. The human desire for increased health and time, however, is limitless, so we’ll continue to follow these life-extending biotechnologies closely as they develop. (To learn more about Pat’s Breakthrough Technology Alert and other Mauldin Economics publications, click on this link, where you will find an offer to subscribe to all of our publications at a significant discount. This is a permanently low price, and the offer will go away after Monday.) The Strategic Investment Conference Presentations The first group of presentations and select videos from the 2014 Strategic Investment Conference is now available! Videos of two of our most popular speakers, Kyle Bass and David Rosenberg, are available, as well as numerous other presentations and summaries. If you are a Mauldin Circle member, you can access the videos by going to www.altegris.com to log in to your “members only” area of the Altegris website. Upon login, click on the “SIC 2014” link in the upper-left corner to view the videos and more. If you have forgotten your login information, simply click “Forgot Login?” and your information will be sent to you. If you are not already a Mauldin Circle member, the good news is that this program is completely free. In order to join, you must, however, be an accredited investor. Please register here to be qualified by my partners at Altegris and added to the subscriber roster. Once you register, an Altegris representative will call you to provide access to the videos, presentations, and summaries from selected speakers at our 2014 conference. Nantucket, New York City, Maine, and San Antonio What would be considered a normal schedule for me would see me doing all of the above-named cities in less than a month, rather than according to my current travel schedule, which lets me spread them out over three months! I will be in Nantucket at a private conference in the middle of July, then in New York July 13-16. Then, as always, I (along with my son Trey) will be in Grand Lake Stream, Maine, the first Friday in August. I think this will be my eighth annual summer expedition to northern Maine and Leen’s Lodge for David Kotok’s big to-do. Then in the middle of September I will join a number of friends and a great roster of speakers at the Casey Research Conference in the Hill Country outside of San Antonio. I’m sure there will be other trips here and there, but I am anticipating being at home a little more for the next few months. One of the benefits of being home is that I can get into a regular routine at the gym. I and a partner are working with a personal trainer at the gym in our building. His training style is a little different for us and has me doing things that I quite frankly haven’t thought about doing in 40 years. Wind sprints, steps, all sorts of novel ways to torture the body and get your heart rate up, and yes, old-fashioned weights now and then. This morning he introduced me to boxing gloves. The last time I had on boxing gloves, I was a sophomore in high school when our gym coach had us put on gloves and I went into a ring for about three minutes. I took them off with a vow to never touch them again. It was an exhausting three minutes trying to avoid getting pummeled. At least this morning the big brute wasn’t hitting back, but it was quite the workout. I really do need to get in better shape. I’m cooking for a group of friends and family, so I need to hit the send button and get the prime rib started. Have a great week. Your wishing I could avoid the healthcare system altogether analyst, John Mauldin, Editorsubscribers@mauldineconomics.com   This article originally appeared at Thoughts From The Frontline.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
APPresident Obama signs the Ex-Im reauthorization into law in 2012.House Majority Leader Eric Cantor's stunning loss in his Republican primary introduced a number of potential unpredictable macroeconomic events into the 2014 calendar. But perhaps nothing stands to lose more than a bank that came into existence in the New Deal era of the Franklin D. Roosevelt administration. The movement toward the death of the Export-Import Bank, first targeted by conservative grassroots as a priority in 2012, has finally appeared to hit its stride. The bank provides direct loans, guarantees, and credit insurance to aid foreign purchasers in buying American-made goods. Its charter expires at the end of September, unless Congress acts to renew it. Cantor was largely responsible in 2012 for brokering a deal to extend the Bank's charter and raise its lending authority to $140 billion. But on Sunday, incoming House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy signaled a major shift when he called for the closure of the bank.  "One of the biggest problems with government is they go and take hard-earned money so others do things the private sector can do," McCarthy, who voted for the Bank's reauthorization in 2012, told Fox News' Chris Wallace on Sunday. "That's what the Ex-Im Bank does. The last authorization with the Ex-Im Bank directed the president and the Treasury secretary to wind down the Ex-Im Bank, negotiate with the other countries to wind them down so we have a level playing field." When asked directly by Wallace if he thinks the bank should close, McCarthy said, "Yes, because it's something that the private sector can be able to do." The Ex-Im Bank, as it is typically called, was established under a 1934 executive order from Roosevelt as part of his desire to expand trade with the newly established Soviet Union and with Cuba. The bank became an independent entity in 1945.  It is the official export agency of the U.S. And its mission, according to its website, is to "assist in financing the export of U.S. goods and services to international markets." The Ex-Im Bank has been deeply involved in historically significant projects and transactions, including the constructions of the Pan-American Highway and Burma Road. Essentially, the Ex-Im Bank assists U.S. companies in their exports to provide them with an advantage against foreign companies, particularly if those foreign companies receive their own subsidies from their governments. This includes direct loans and loan guarantees to foreign buyers of U.S. goods and services, working capital guarantees, and export-credit insurance. Some of the biggest U.S. beneficiaries of the bank include companies like Boeing, General Electric, and Caterpillar. In its latest annual report, the Ex-Im Bank said it was responsible for supporting up to 1.2 million jobs over the past five years. In 2013 alone, that number was 205,000, according to the bank. (The bank employs fewer than 500 people.) Its reauthorization throughout history has not been controversial. Fourteen of the 16 times its reauthorization has come up for a vote, it has passed by either unanimous consent or voice vote in at least one chamber of Congress.  But over the last two years, the bank has come under increasingly intense scrutiny because opponents have latched on to the cause the bank provides "corporate welfare."  The Club for Growth, Heritage Action, and other conservative groups have launched campaigns calling for it to shut down. In the House, the powerful House Financial Services Committee Chair Rep. Jeb Hensarling (R-Texas) has led the charge against reauthorization. McCarthy, soon to be the No. 2 House Republican, became the most significant member of Congress to join the bandwagon.  "We're starting to see the Republican Party as a whole not reflexively saying, 'If this is good for big business, I'm in favor of it,'" Dan Holler, the communications director for Heritage Action, told Business Insider on Monday. The Tea Party-supported argument, one advocated by Heritage Action and others, centers around claims the Bank is a form of "crony capitalism" and "corporate welfare." In many ways, it embodies the larger fundamental dispute within the Republican Party. Though many in the establishment view the bank as a good function of government, conservatives see it as an overreach. They compare it to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the two entities that were taken over by the U.S. government in 2008 amid the financial crisis. "We had this sea change in 2012 where people saw the Bank as this perfect example of everything that's wrong with Washington," Holler said, referring to the 93 votes against the Bank's reauthorization back then, the most since the administration of President Richard Nixon. Jonathan Ernst/Reuters"You can have big companies going to this Bank, which is backed by taxpayers, and using this Bank to help themselves. This isn't the proper role of the federal government. We're kind of on the hook here like Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, if things go wrong." Cantor's shocking loss and McCarthy's unexpected rise progressed the issue from a potentially bitter fight to one in which the Tea-Party types in the GOP seem to have the upper hand in the battle.  The White House and the Republican establishment-friendly Chamber of Commerce both pressed the case for the bank's renewal on Monday, one day after McCarthy's comments re-ignited the debate. The National Association of Manufacturers has also been lobbying on behalf of the bank, arguing manufacturing would be crushed by the bank's expiration. And on Monday, a group of more than 40 Republican members of Congress had signed off on a letter urging House leadership to take action to renew the Ex-Im Bank's charter. There are 60 other countries that have credit export agencies, which supporters of the bank say would be more than happy to scoop up sales and jobs from U.S. companies by being willing to offer similar support.  "What do we want to do? Give this business to the Europeans and the Chinese?" Tom Donohue, the president of the Chamber of Commerce, told reporters in a conference call on Monday.  Added a spokesperson for Caterpillar in a statement: "For the U.S. to close the Ex-Im Bank in this environment is surrendering export markets and economic growth in the U.S." The bank says it provided $27 billion to support an estimated $37.4 billion in U.S. export sales in fiscal year 2013, which helped sustain the more than 200,000 jobs. And it says it is a self-sustaining agency, claiming it has sent $1.6 billion back to the U.S. Treasury since 2008 in excess revenue.  Facebook/ Turkish AirlinesOne of the leading advocates for the bank is Tony Fratto, a former Bush administration White House and Treasury official who is now a partner at Hamilton Place Strategies. Fratto was described by a NAM official on Monday's conference call as one of a "dream team" of advocates for the bank, along with former House Majority Leader Dick Gephardt and former Mississippi Gov. Haley Barbour. Fratto told Business Insider on Monday that about three-fourths of Ex-Im Bank critics have "no idea what they're talking about." Why? The single biggest thing every critic gets wrong, Fratto said, is the claim McCarthy made Sunday — that the private sector can and will pick up the slack. That's because no one in the private sector is currently structured to do what the Ex-Im Bank does. "That is flat-out wrong," Fratto said. "That will not happen. There is no private-sector response to what Ex-Im does. There are structural problems with our financial system and the needs of small and medium exporters. They will not do that business. Not because it's not good business, but because it's not their business. They can't do it." The problem is twofold. Using the bank SunTrust as an example, Fratto said smaller banks don't have the expertise to do what the Ex-Im Bank does. It doesn't have enough knowledge of the global landscape to facilitate deals in countries as diverse as Venezuela, Nigeria, Turkey, and Vietnam at the same time.  (For reference, the Ex-Im Bank's portfolio includes a range of 170 countries, and the Bank says about 90% of its transactions are to small businesses.) The second problem, according to Fratto: The big banks and insurers that do have that expertise have no interest in facilitating the small transactions that are the bread and butter of the Ex-Im Bank. "In no one's imagination is SunTrust going to come in and cover 40 countries just to do some trade finance deals. And it will never be profitable for Bank of America, or HSBC, or these other global firms who do possess the knowledge and reach and scope to do these one-off, little deals for some U.S. exporters," Fratto said. APOne real-world example cited by representatives from the Chamber and from NAM on the conference call Monday was FirmGreen Inc., which makes equipment used to purify biogas. Donohue said on the conference call that its CEO, Steven Wilburn, told lawmakers in April that his company lost a $57 million contract to a South Korean company because of the Ex-Im Bank's uncertain future. "We are hearing from large and small companies alike who are realizing that the numbers of competitive offers on big projects and on small ones would fundamentally change if this type of financing is not available," Donohue said. And the big beneficiaries of the bank, like Boeing, are worried about the possibility of its charter expiring. The company told Business Insider in a statement it would "be placed at a competitive disadvantage" to companies like Airbus, which has similar backing from export-credit agencies in France, Germany, and the U.K. "The airplane market is highly competitive, and every deal is won or lost by the slightest of margins. Any uncertainty in financing availability could unnecessarily tilt the field against Boeing, putting thousands of manufacturing jobs at risk," the company said in the statement. In all, the vast majority of companies want the Ex-Im Bank to continue. Delta, which has been a corporate outlier on the issue, says it wants the charter to be renewed, even as it presses for reforms to be on more of a level playing field with Boeing. Opponents of the bank are already declaring near-certain victory ahead of the Sept. 30 deadline. The incoming No. 2 House Republican, McCarthy, has now announced his opposition. A spokesman for House Speaker John Boehner told Business Insider he has made clear the debate should be left to members and, especially, the Financial Services Committee, which is chaired by Hensarling.  "Folks laughed at me when I was talking in March and April that, yes, the Ex-Im Bank was going to expire this year," Heritage Action's Holler said. "And each and every month since, we've gotten more and more momentum. There's no doubt that in the past couple weeks, things have really accelerated. And you'd be hard-pressed to find somebody who's talking optimistically about the Bank being reauthorized." About the only source of optimism left for backers is the fact the Ex-Im Bank supports more than 3,000 small businesses, which are included in every single district in the U.S. But on the contrary, there have been a number of recent Chamber-supported issues that haven't found their way through the House, including one of its biggest — immigration reform.  When asked if there would be "consequences" for lawmakers who resisted extending the Ex-Im Bank's charter, Donohue demurred. And he knew it. "I suppose you have to ask the voters. And if you think I ducked your question, you’re exactly right," Donohue said. For its part, a spokesperson from the Ex-Im Bank said it didn't have a reaction to McCarthy's comments, other than that it was still "optimistic that Congress will do what it has always done and reauthorize the Export-Import Bank." FREE AppDownload
Chase InternationalThe historic Nixon Mansion in Reno, Nevada, is on the market for the $20.4 million, making it the most expensive publicly listed property in the city. This Italian villa spans 17,964 square feet and was built by Nevada Senator George S. Nixon in 1907. Since then, the 2-acre estate has been home to the daughter and granddaughter of Nevada senators and a couple of doctors.  The mansion was destroyed by fire in 1979, but the current owners completely restored the estate both inside and out. Home owners will enjoy views of downtown Reno, Peavine Mountain, and the Truckee River. Stand-out amenities include an 860-square-foot kitchen, a river-view bar, an 1,800-bottle wine cellar, and more.
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidA specialist trader points at the price movement of a stock while working on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange June 13, 2014. "The rally in stocks in the face of an appalling US GDP print again emphasizes the importance of future expectations vs. past facts." - Jan Loeys, Chief Market Strategist at JPMorgan On Wednesday, we learned that the U.S. economy contracted at a 2.9% rate in Q1, which was much worse than the -1.8% expected by economists. Compared to the initial estimate of +0.1% and the Q4 rate of +2.6%, this looks like a total disaster. Yet, not only did stocks not collapse, they actually rallied on the day of the report. "If investors had been told in January that US Q1 growth would disappoint by 5%, they would probably have sold stocks heavily," said JP Morgan's Jan Loeys on Friday. But it's not January anymore. While the bad news about Q1 has been confirmed, we have all kinds of other information about the present, which makes us a little more confident about a brighter future. And don't forget: Q1 ended back in March. "The rally in stocks in the face of an appalling US GDP print again emphasizes the importance of future expectations vs. past facts," said Loeys. Here's more from Loeys: ...Why are they then not selling now on the successive official downgrading of Q1 growth over the past two months? The reason is likely that there is no clear smoking gun for Q1 weakness (in this case uncertainty helps), and Q2 data so far suggest Q1 was a one-off with little implication for the coming quarters aside from underlining how weak growth is in this cycle... ...On the economy, there is strong agreement that growth is picking up from this year’s appallingly weak start to just over 3% over the next six quarters and that global inflation is set to rise about 0.3% over 2013-15. Most investors we see think risk on growth is biased to the upside. There is little interest in discussing or protecting against secular stagnation or stagflation... On Wednesday, Renaissance Macro's Neil Dutta sent out a brief note titled "GDP=USELESS." In it, he homed in on the more up-to-date indicators. Here's an excerpt. If GDP were truly so weak, we would not expect aggregate hours worked to climb 3.7% annualized through May, jobless claims to remain near cycle lows, consumer confidence to hit a cycle high, industrial production to climb 5.0% at an annual rate over the first five months of the year, core capital goods orders to be up 5.8%, ISM to be above 55, and vehicle sales to hit their strongest annualized selling pace for the year. GDP is the outlier in these data points. I will roll my eyes and move on. Most of the data we just mentioned is consistent with underlying growth over 3.0%. It can't be emphasized enough that stocks and the economy are not the same thing. Importantly, stock values are largely based on future expectations, not the past. So, if there's any relationship that exists, it's between stocks and expectations for the future of the economy. This coming week, we'll get new June data on the state of global manufacturing and the U.S. labor market. Surely, this stuff will be much more likely to move markets than 3-month-old GDP data. FREE AppDownload
 Richard Chilton has been on Wall Street since 1978. In that time he's built his hedge fund, Chilton Investment Company, into a firm with about $4 billion assets under management. To do that, he's had to learn to sniff out who will make an excellent employee and who will not. In a recent interview with Skiddy von Stade, the CEO of the finance career site OneWire, Chilton offered some invaluable tips for working at a hedge fund — and what might ruin your chances of getting hired. Specifically, he mentioned three things he never wants to hear someone he's interviewing say. Check them out below: For more insight from execs, subscribe to OneWire's YouTube channel. FREE AppDownload
Jed Kolko, chief economist at Trulia argues that U.S. home prices are 3% undervalued compared with their long-term fundamentals.  To gauge whether home prices are over- or undervalued, Kolko considers "the price-to-income ratio, the price-to-rent ratio, and prices relative to their long-term trends using multiple data sources." But housing is as much a regional story as it is a national one — and regional markets are markedly different. The most overvalued housing markets are largely located in California, but again, Kolko doesn't think these are in bubble territory.  "Orange County, today’s frothiest market, is just 17% overvalued now versus being 71% overvalued in 2006 Q1," he writes. "Among the most overvalued markets today, only Austin looks more overvalued now (13%) than in 2006 Q1 (8%) – and that’s because Austin (and Texas generally) avoided the worst of last decade’s bubble and bust." TruliaMeanwhile, home prices are the most undervalued in Ohio. "But in several of the most undervalued markets, including Detroit and Chicago, prices are now rising year-over-year in the double digits," writes Kolko. "But those markets are unlikely to stay on the most-undervalued list for many more quarters." Trulia FREE AppDownload
Check in early. Stay hydrated. Bring hand sanitizer. Consolidate credit card and hotel points. Thanks Condé Nast or USA Today; should I be taking notes? The only thing missing are the words ‘life hack.’ Simply put, there’s nothing glamorous or exciting about commercial air travel, especially domestically in the US. Although sitting between a Lager Lout and a ginger Scouse on an EasyJet flight from Luton Airport to Barcelona is hardly any better – except that you end up in Barcelona, instead of in Cleveland. So I thought I’d share with you the accumulated wisdom of my years spent traversing the globe – a definitive guide to make air travel palatable for you and those around you: John LeFevre is the creator of the @GSElevator Twitter feed and the author of the soon-to-be-released Straight To Hell: True Tales of Deviance, Debauchery, and Billion-Dollar Deals. <U+2028> FREE AppDownload
Associated Press For a country where everyone drives, America has shoddy roads The Pulaski Skyway is a bridge of beauty, a lattice of steel held high above the river that separates Newark from Jersey City. It is also a bit rickety. Some of its struts have begun to resemble the pastry on a millefeuille. Its structure is described as "basically intolerable" by the National Bridge Inventory. The thousands of motorists who cross it each day probably agree. With no money to pay for its maintenance, New Jersey re-classified the Pulaski as an entrance to a tunnel that maps suggest lies miles to its north, so that the Port Authority could be tapped for funds. For this, Chris Christie, the state’s governor--who has had other troubles with bridges recently--finds his administration under investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission and New York’s District Attorney. The EconomisNew Jersey’s scramble to find money for basic repairs is not unusual. The Highway Trust Fund, a pot of federal cash that covers a quarter of spending by states on infrastructure, will have to start withholding money this summer to keep its balance above zero, as required by law. "The problem with the trust fund," says David Walker, a former head of the Government Accountability Office, "is that it’s not funded and you can’t trust it." A short-term fix may be found: Congress has already passed ten of these, shifting money from elsewhere to make up for a persistent shortfall in revenue from fuel taxes, which have been held constant since 1993. But such hand-to-mouth financing makes planning difficult and encourages city, state and local governments to put off repairs for as long as possible. America saw two great booms in infrastructure spending in the past century, the first during the Great Depression, when the Pulaski skyway was built, and the second in the 1950s and 60s, when most of the interstate highway system was. Since then, public infrastructure spending as a share of GDP has declined to about half the European level. America is one of the most car-dependent nations on earth, yet it spends about as large a share of GDP on roads as Sweden, where public transport is pretty good (see chart). The federal government scrimps on airports and sewage pipes so it can pay for pensions and health care. Something similar is unfolding at the state and local level, where three quarters of all spending on infrastructure occurs. States cut their budgets by 3.8% in 2009 and 5.7% in 2010--and have not made up the lost ground. Meanwhile bills for repairs are coming due. Much of what was built after the war was only designed to last for 50 years and now needs replacing. That includes almost half the country’s bridges. Signs of the shortfall are everywhere. Airports are funded by passenger fees and another trust fund. Neither has kept up with the increase in air traffic. The last big new airport was opened almost 20 years ago, in Denver. Everything about America’s major airports is too small, starting with the gates for parking planes. Last year Boeing began offering aircraft with folding wing-tips because so many are damaged while trying to squeeze in. At the busiest international airports, clearing customs can take hours. At New York’s JFK the average wait is about 30 minutes, but some poor souls wait four hours. This is relatively efficient compared with what is going on in the sky. Most air- traffic control systems are less advanced than the technology found in smartphones. Alaska’s Juneau airport, which is smothered by low-lying cloud, is an exception. Its airport introduced GPS navigation after there were threats to move the state capital to Anchorage because it was so hard to land. The result has been 2,000 fewer flights cancelled each year. Other airports still treat planes as if they were galleons crossing an ocean, travelling between fixed points on a two-dimensional map. With interest rates low and companies sitting on $2 trillion in cash, this should be a good time to bring in private money to make up for the lack of public investment. That cause has not been helped by some high-profile flops: the consortium that took over a stretch of road in 2006 that runs from Chicago to the Ohio turnpike and is operated by Ferrovial of Spain and Macquarie of Australia is near bankruptcy. The involvement of two foreign infrastructure finance companies is telling: because America has been slow to adopt public-private partnerships its companies have little experience of them. The Port of Miami tunnel, a billion-dollar project which is due to open shortly, was financed by Europeans and used a boring machine built in Germany and shipped across the Atlantic in pieces to dig the tunnel. Jeff Immelt, the boss of GE, an industrial conglomerate, reckons that big public infrastructure projects require some government involvement, whether through subsidies, loan-guarantees or public-private partnerships. To this end John Delaney, a congressman from Maryland, has proposed a bill that would give firms a tax break on repatriated foreign profits if part of the money brought back was spent on infrastructure bonds. The bill has 35 Republican and 33 Democratic co-sponsors in the House and the support of seven Republicans and six Democrats in the Senate. Despite this, it remains stuck in Congress. Because the problem is so big, people assume that the federal government must be responsible, says Robert Puentes of the Brookings Institution, a think-tank. In fact, he argues, other levels of government are going to have to find the money required. This is starting to happen. Some states add their own petrol taxes to the federal government’s one. Eight of them, including some deep-red places such as Wyoming, put them up last year. Virginia has increased its sales tax to pay for infrastructure. Michigan’s governor, Rick Snyder, proposed raising taxes to spend an additional $1 billion a year on infrastructure. When voters are asked about infrastructure projects in ballot initiatives they back them about 75% of the time, according to the Center for Transportation Excellence, which keeps count. For more of this to happen, Republicans--who control most statehouses and governorships--will have to stay their urge to shrink government and cut taxes. The party often argues that the federal government should spend less and let the states make more decisions about how to tax and spend. On infrastructure at least they have got their wish. Now is the time for them to show that they mean it. FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Mike Ehrmann If you wanted to describe the housing market in 2014 in one word, it would be meh. Prices are still on the rise, and activity is above crisis levels. But the pace of activity still seems sub-normal, which is being attributed to a combination of: lack of supply, the difficulty of getting a mortgage, and subdued activity among tradition first-time homebuyers. The missing "first-time homebuyers" is a big source of discussion, as people theorize that the new generation just isn't interested in homeownership. Or maybe they are interested in homeownership, but due to student loan debt and lack of jobs, they just can't make it happen. So what will get them into the housing market? Simple, strong job growth. On his company's quarterly conference call this past week (via Calculated Risk), Jeff Mezger, the CEO of homebuilder KB Home, said that there was some slight signs of renewed first-time homebuyer activity. During the Q&amp;A portion of the conference call, Mezger was pressed on what specifically he was seeing. Here's the key back and forth, where an analyst from JPMorgan asks for clarification on first-time homebuyer activity. Note the bolded part of Mezger's answer: Michael Rehaut - JPMorgan That’s great. I appreciate that. And I guess second question for Jeff Mezger, as there are two Jeffs I have to distinguish. Jeff, you mentioned that in your opening remarks that there was evidence of a reemergence of the first-time buyer and I was hoping you could expand on that a little bit in terms of that if that’s something you are seeing in your own business itself and particularly given that you continue to perhaps shift to maybe away from the historically traditional first-time buyer more of a financially – more financially a stronger type of first time buyer that’s more financially able and more perhaps the move up community, so I was just wondering if this was something that you kind of saw specifically within your own business or if it was more just kind of general comments as it relates to perhaps mortgage lending standards or other trends that you see out there? Jeff Mezger - Chief Executive Officer Mike, it’s part of why I split it into the two different business dynamics we are dealing with today. In the higher income with land constrained areas I don’t know that our first-time buyer mix has changed. It’s a different first-time buyer I know it’s a higher income buyer than we would have seen 10 years ago. What I was trying to point out in the cities pick a Texas City because all four of the larger cities has solid job growth and real population growth going on today. And it’s a because of the job growth we are seeing more first-time buyers. They are not – it’s a well healed first-time buyer, but it’s not the high income first-time buyer like you would see in Orange County or up in the Santa Clara County. So I think it’s because you have job growth going on in those cities and that’s within our own business we are seeing this. So it's fairly simple. Where the economy is booming, like it is in Texas, you're starting to see first-time home buyers. This may seem head-smackingly obvious, but there's an important point here about the state of the housing market in 2014. Earlier this week, Stan Humphries the chief economist at real estate site Zillow said the housing market was no longer characterized by the distortions we saw during the crisis. The crash is over. The snapback is over. The era of large investors scooping up tons of distressed properties is over. And so forth. Now what's left is a normal market, influenced by normal factors. And unfortunately, there aren't too many places yet there are booming like Texas is. If the economy picks up in more parts of the country, then the first-time homebuyer will really begin to re-emerge. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Luke MacGregor Residents Nigel and Jane Gray look out from their front door after the river Thames flooded the village of Wraysbury, southern England February 11, 2014. The Bank of England has sounded the alarm on the U.K. housing market. The central bank has announced two new lending rules and standards for mortgages in the U.K, with the goal of, "[limiting] the risks to financial stability and the economy from a significant increase in the number of highly indebted households." The first is a stress test of a borrower's ability to pay a mortgage if rates rise, and the other limits how many of a lender's mortgages can be more than 4.5 times a borrower's income. Last week, the U.K.'s Office for National Statistics reported that housing prices increased 9.9% in April, up from an 8% increase in March. And the London housing market was up significantly, with annual home prices rising 18.7%.  The BoE said mortgages represent 80% of household debt in the U.K., but added that it, "does not believe that household indebtedness poses an imminent threat to stability." Here's a chart showing the annual increase in home prices. ONS This chart shows the increase in U.K. home prices since 2002. ONS And this break down by region shows the change in the London market, which is exploding. ONS These new rules from the BoE come about two weeks after BoE Governor Mark Carney suggested that interest rate increases could come sooner than the market expects. A change in interest rates would make those who hold variable rate mortgages particularly vulnerable. The BoE said it is "prudent" to insure against housing market risks, positioning the rules as preventing a problem rather than reacting to one.  But Baroness Jo Valentine, chief executive of London First, told the BBC: "If anyone thinks these tighter rules on mortgage lending will somehow make London prices more reasonable then they are mistaken." The U.K. housing market is undeniably booming, but whether this boom has led to a bubble-like situation that will end badly remains to be seen. The Bank of England is clearly paying very close attention. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Rick WilkingLennar Corporation, the second largest US home builder in 2013, reported that net home orders in the quarter ended May 31, 2014 totaled 6,183, up 8.4% from the comparable quarter of 2013. Sales per active community were down about 7.5% from a year ago. Home deliveries last quarter totaled 4,987, up 11.7% from the comparable quarter of 2013, at an average sales price of $322,000, up 13.8% from a year ago. The company’s order backlog at the end of May was 6,858, up 11.3% from last May, at an average order price of $343,000, up 13.6% from a year earlier.Here is a comment from Lennar’s CEO in its press release. With respect to land, the company said in its conference call that it owned or controlled bout 164,000 homesites at the end of May, up 18.3% from last May ... That lot inventory was 7.6 times Lennar’s expected level of home deliveries in 2014 – which is a lot!In its conference call officials said that the company’s sizable land/lot position left it “well positioned” to take advantage of an increase in demand from first-time home buyers, but officials said that demand from first-time home buyers last quarter remained very weak – which officials attributed mainly to continued very tight mortgage lending standards. Officials also highlighted the company’s relatively new multifamily rental segment, which it apparently started on concerns that a higher share of householders, especially young adults/new householders, may be more likely to be renters and/or live in urban areas than has been the case in the past.KB Home, the fifth largest US home builder in 2013, reported that net home orders in the quarter ended May 31, 2014 totaled 2,269, up 4.9% from the comparable quarter of 2013. Net orders per community last quarter were down 2.2% from a year ago. Home deliveries last quarter totaled 1,751, down 2.6% from the comparable quarter of 2013, at an average sales price of $319,700, up 10.1% from a year ago. The company’s order backlog at the end of May was 3,398, up 8.6% from last May.In an excessively long opening remark on the company’s earnings conference call, KB Home’s CEO Jeff Mezger made two observations that raised analysts’ eyebrow: he said that (1) while mortgage credit remained tight, the company has seen evidence of easing in credit standards; and (2) the company has seen some “re-emergence” of first-time home buyers. Not surprisingly he faced questions on these observations in the Q&amp;A session. On mortgage credit standards, Mezger pointed to “still high” but lower average credit scores on mortgage bonds issued, and to “anecdotal” reports of reduced “credit overlays” from “some lenders.” (No story here!). On the re-emergence of first-time home buyers, Mezger said that there’s been an increase in first-time home buyer purchases in some areas of Texas where job growth has been strong.Here are net orders for the quarter ended May 31, 2014 for three large home builders. (Note: Hovnanian reported result for the quarter ended April 30, 2014, but it showed net orders for May 2014 in its earnings presentation). Earlier this week, Census estimated that new SF home sales in the first five months of 2014 totaled 194,000 (not seasonally adjusted), up just 0.5% from the first five months of 2013.Net, the “spring” new home buying season, while not really a “bust,” fell considerably short of “consensus” forecasts at the beginning of the year. While results varied considerably among large publicly-traded builders, overall net home orders appear to have fallen considerably short of builder expectations as well, and net order per community appear on aggregate to have declined about 6% YOY. The 13 large publicly-traded home builders I track in aggregate increased the number of lots they owned or controlled from the fall of 2011 to the fall of 2013 by about 30% -- with the bulk of the gain occurring since the middle of 2012 – and in aggregate these companies planned to increase both community counts and sales by 15-17% this year. One reason net orders have been below consensus is that many builders raised prices aggressively last year. Now that builders have substantially larger land/lot inventories – and a lot more of it is developed now compared to a year ago – it is a pretty good bet that builders’ “pricing power” has fallen sharply, and that new home prices will on average (and adjusted for mix) show little if any increase for the remainder of this year. FREE AppDownload
Take this Wall Street word challenge to test your knowledge of finance lingo. Produced by Sara Silverstein and Justin Gmoser. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
REUTERS/Philip BrownIndia is one of the world's largest economies, and it has the second largest population. This means things in India tend to be fairly large-scaled — consider its network of roads, consumer spending, or its youth population. But it also experiences some problems on a large scale like suicides and road accidents. We pulled together some staggering statistics from the sub-continent. FREE AppDownload
Melia Robinson/Business InsiderLeaning forward while standing shows you're engaged and in a position of dominance.It's the cheapest, most low-tech life hack you'll find. Power posing: the act of taking a posture of confidence, even when you don't feel so confident, to make yourself more dominant. Social psychologist Amy Cuddy struck a chord in the business world at TEDGlobal 2012 when she gave a talk about the scientific evidence behind power posing. Her research showed that standing or sitting a certain way triggers immediate changes in your body chemistry. It can affect the way you do your job and interact with other people. It might even have an effect on your chances of success. Here's how it works: High-power posing is about opening up, Cuddy says. You stretch and expand your body to take up as much space as possible. It's similar to how primates behave in the wild. They puff out their chests and extend their limbs to make themselves appear — and feel — big. After assuming a high-power pose for just two minutes, your testosterone levels (the "dominance" hormone) can rocket 20% while your cortisol levels (the "stress" hormone) fall sharply. This allows you to better handle stressful situations. We decided to test out some of the poses. Some of them have names created by Cuddy; others we came up with. We'll break down which to use in eight common situations that affect your work success.  FREE AppDownload
MTVLooking back on it now, the years leading up to the Lehman collapse seem like a fever dream. This was the era when: -- Your friend who had majored in English went to work for an investment bank. -- Your parents thought it would be a good idea to buy a second (or third!) home upstate. -- "My Super Sweet 16" came into existence. We wanted to go back to see just how absurd this moment was. So we've scoured American (and a slice of global) culture and society from 2003 to 2008 to find the most absurd examples and reflections of financial excess.  In retrospect, it is now ludicrously clear that we should've seen it all coming... FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Renato GuerreiroBank of America Merrill Lynch is out with a note giving long-run projections for key economic variables.  The list includes predictions for 20 economic data points, ranging from GDP to inflation to the Federal Reserve's benchmark interest rate, for each year through 2020, and then for 2021-2025. Some of BAML's interesting long-term predictions for 2021-2025 include a 3.75% benchmark interest rate, a 4.5% yield on a 10-year Treasury note, and 4.2% nominal GDP.  BAML also sees the Fed keeping interest rates low through 2016. BAML expects a 1.5% interest rate in 2016, below where all but three FOMC participants projected interest rates to be at year-end, according to the Fed's latest Dot Plot.  BAML also sees the Fed overshooting its inflation target once the economy fully recovers, with core inflation running a bit above 2% later this decade. Here's a full table of BAML's predictions: Bank of America Merrill Lynch FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Larry Downing Former Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner was one of the more controversial figures of both the financial crisis, and the subsequent first years of the Obama administration, having been perceived as too close to Wall Street. Many also said he failed to do enough to provide relief to homeowners hit by the crash. In his new book "Stress Test", Geithner addresses all these issues. He makes a compelling case that the first accusation was definitely not true, and that Treasury did all it reasonably could to address the latter the situation. The main lesson Geithner teaches provides is the nature of decision making in Washington — which will leave you even more depressed about how things get done there. With that in mind, here are the nine related things we learned in our reading. The principal criticism of Geithner during his term at Treasury was that he was too close to the banks. Many pointed to his term as head of the New York Fed. But some would point to a non-existent stint at Goldman Sachs as the most firm evidence.  In fact, Geithner has only spent a few years of his entire career in the private sector, and they were right at the beginning of his career: As an Asia specialist at Henry Kissinger's consulting firm. This was followed by getting asked by Larry Summers to come on as a Treasury functionary, then a stint at the IMF, then the New York Fed, and finally back to Treasury.  Geithner says the idea of an eight-figure salary never inspired him, and that he preferred the career of a problem solver. He asserts he found much of what Wall Street did before and during the crisis, like AIG's decision to pay out bonuses, totally amoral. But he remains furious at the accusations of conflicts of interest.  "I was sick of the insinuations, so prevalent in Washington, that any advocates of using emergency authorities to quell the panic must be acting at the behest of big banks," he writes. "The stability of the entire banking system was at risk. The economy was already hurting badly."  Geithner is effusive with praising his team both at the New York Fed and at Treasury. There are a few people in particular who he says were indispensable: Current: Senior Vice President and Director of the Office of Financial Stability &amp; Regulatory Policy at the New York Fed. Anecdote: "Meg has a feel for the dark side of any situation." Current: Senior Managing Director, Centerbridge Partners "The stress test would end up having many other virtues I didn't foresee at the time. Kabaker later dubbed it "the gift that keeps on giving." Current: CEO of Alliance Partners Anecdote: "Lee kept saying he could feel the markets tremble with every exploratory call to New York from a White House staffer." Current: Unknown (most recently Acting Treasury Secretary) "After Oxford and Yale Law School, Neal had worked for Bob Gates at the CIA; he had been Treasury's general counsel during the Clinton administration; he had run a major insurance business; and how he was a deputy White House counsel. Rahm immediately told him to get the fuck over to Treasury to help me, without even specifying a job." Obama's former chief is staff (he now works at a law firm) is described as the man responsible for getting Elizabeth Warren to run for senate instead of heading up the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. Cohen, the chairman of megafirm Sullivan &amp; Cromwell, is described as "Wall Street's trauma surgeon," having represented basically every firm that went critical during the crisis.  Geithner found many of the Senate Minority leader's beliefs and methods offensive, but appreciated his unusual candor, and willingness to recognize un-winnable battles.  Geithner reserves special praise for John Boehner, whom he says did the best he could to keep the House wolves calling for a U.S. default at bay. "I kind of liked Boehner," Geithner writes. "He had an easygoing manner, and he seemed lonely in his new position as a pragmatic conservative surrounded by extremists."  Maybe it's the height thing — but Geithner humorously (and also occasionally ragefully) — drops a fair amount of obscenities. Here's the count according to an Amazon search (which may undercount): Fucking: 8* Fuck: 6 Clusterfuck: 2 Fucked: 1 Shit: 2 Shitty: 1 *Also includes "NFW", abbreviation of "no fucking way." An example: "I'm the fucking Treasury secretary and I can't see these numbers?" Geithner screams — at New York Fed employees — his former colleagues, no less — over their unwillingness to show him very preliminary stress test data (he concedes the numbers were prone to shifting at that point). Geithner provides multiple examples of just how craven, idiotic and generally pathetic elected officials can be. The most memorable is anecdote about Mark Kirk, the Senator from Illinois who ultimately took over the seat Gov. Rod Blagojevich was convicted of trying to sell. While in Beijing on his first trip as secretary, Geithner heard that Kirk had told Chinese officials not to buy U.S. Treasuries because runaway government spending was driving us towards default and that the Fed was creating hyperinflation. "I couldn't believe it," Geithner writes. "Not only were those fears delusional, but he was undermining American interests on foreign soil."  In debating the financial reform bill, he encountered freshly elected Sen. Scott Brown. "When the conversation finally turned to substance, he said he liked the idea of financial reform and expected to be with us," Geithner writes. "But without any irony or self-consciousness, he said he needed to protect two financial institutions in Massachusetts from the Volcker Rule's restrictions. Then he furrowed his brow and turned to his aide. 'Which ones are they, again?' he asked." The most consequential is Sheila Bair, the head of the FDIC during the crisis. Geithner says Bair dropped the ball on numerous occasions: By not taking advantage of the emergency powers Congress extended to the FDIC to guarantee Washington Mutual 's, sending the cost of insuring against corporate defaults skyward and, Geithner says, dooming Wachovia to a shotgun marriage-buyout by Citi. She is ultimately given a reprieve in the acknowledgments section — and Bair herself said she was fine with Geithner's characterizations of their disagreements. But it's clear Geithner believes she made some serious tactical errors, including ones that remain a of the financial system today.  The same privilege was not bestowed on Neil Barofksy, the former prosecutor appointed by Hank Paulson as the special inspector general for the troubled asset relief fund. In July of 2009, Barofsky released a report saying TARP had exposed taxpayers to $23.7 trillion in potential losses. This was merely the size of the market the government had backstopped. But for losses ever to mount that high would require every mortgage backed by Fannie and Freddie to default, and home prices to collapse to zero. Despite the absurdity of this claim, it got picked up in most media outlets.   Geithner obliterates Barofsky for this claim, and his overall attitude in his role. "Barofsky's desire to prevent perfidy was untainted by financial knowledge or experience. He assumed our motives were self-evidently sinister, as if we had helped banks for fun and profit rather than to cure a metastasizing financial crisis." Geithner adds: "Hank Paulson apologized to me twice during our work together — once for initially failing to persuade the House to pass TARP, and once for bequeathing me Barofksy." Oh my god.  Geithner admits that the numbers he put out for how many homeowners could be helped by the HAMP and HARP relief programs were wildly off the mark. At one point they did consider granting permanent loan modifications to anyone with a trial mod, but decided against it as it would create too much opportunity for fraud, given everything that was coming out at the time about "no-doc loans" and "liar loans." The programs were also overly reliant on the same mortgage servicing industry that had caused the crisis — but there was no way Treasury would be able to create and hire for an agency to do it for them, Geithner said. Still, he argues Treasury successfully put a floor under home prices by ending the broader crisis, and that allowing values to start rising again did provide major relief. Mainly, Dodd-Frank actually eliminated the FDIC's debt guarantee authority, as well as the Fed's ability to intervene with specific firms, as it did with Bear Stearns, AIG, Citi and BofA. "That power wouldn't be necessary if the FDIC still had broad guarantee authority, but losing both could be disastrous." For anyone who would say that such powers create moral hazard, Geithner quotes Stanley Fischer that "condoms don't cause sex."  Here's Paul Krugman: Geithner also makes some demonstrably false statements about the public debate over stimulus. “At the time,” he declares, “$800 billion over two years was considered extraordinarily aggressive, twice as much as a group of 387 mostly left-leaning economists had just recommended in a public letter.” Um, no. A number of economists, including Columbia’s Joseph Stiglitz and myself, were warning that the package was too small; so was Romer, internally. And here's Ed Harrison: I think the Geithner world view is heavily skewed by his having been surrounded by self-interested elites in New York and Washington who were understandably pleading their case, a case that was banking-centric and less focused on the competing interests of homeowners, wage earners and the voting public. It's true that Geithner moved mountains to rescue the banks, and you can thus ague that he did not demonstrate the same force in getting a larger economic stimulus through Congress. But the crisis had the misfortune of occurring soon after an election. Geithner argues that "Politics ultimately determine what gets done" on fiscal policy, "and you can't afford to get bogged down in a protracted fight." Given what we see out of Congress these days, you're inclined to say it's amazing he got through anything at all.  FREE AppDownload
The nearly 3% contraction of the US economy in Q1 (at an annualized pace) is simply shocking.  It has shaken the faith. The US 10-year bond yield fell back under the downtrend line drawn off the January and June highs. This news was followed by disappointing consumption data (contraction in real terms for the second consecutive month in May). Some economists revised down their estimates for Q2 GDP and some even talked of the probability that with more than 2/3 of the economy contracting for 2/3 of the second quarter, the entire economy probably contracted. The decline in the US 10-year yield did seem to be a critical factor behind the dollar's fall below its 200-day moving average against the yen on a weekly basis, for the first time in more than a year and a half,  but monetary policy is still diverging. The BOJ is buying two times the amount of assets the Federal Reserve will until August when it will be buying nearly three times more. Moreover, the Japanese economy is about a third of the size of the US (on both nominal and PPP terms, according to IMF data).. Similarly, the ECB has just cut its deposit rate to zero and warned investors its balance sheet may expanded by as much as 400 bln euros by the of the year (assuming full take down of the TLTROs) The euro has shown itself to be fairly resilient and finished last week in the upper end of its recent trading range. The euro is close its best level since Draghi announced the ECB's new initiatives (just shy of $1.3680). The 200-day moving average comes in near there and does the top of the Bollinger Band. The 5-day moving average is above the 20-day average. The RSI is neutral, though the MACDs have turned up. The record low volatility means that sustained upticks may still be hard to come by. The $1.3735 area may be the most that can be reasonably hoped for ahead of the ECB meeting and US jobs data (Thursday, July 3rd for each as the US Independence Day brings forward by a day the employment report). Above there, $1.3800 may prove formidable and, if it is approached, look for official rhetoric to be dialed back up. Just as telling of the deterioration of the dollar's tone is the heaviness of the Dollar Index. Important technical support is seen between 79.70-80.00. A break of this would signal losses toward 79.00. The 200-day moving average, just below 80.30, offers initial resistance. Although the Dollar Index is mostly the euro and currencies that move within its orbit, a little more than a fifth of is accounted for by the Japanese yen and Canadian dollar. They were two of the strongest major currencies last week, appreciating about 0.65% and 0.85% against the greenback respectively. Indeed, this quarter the Canadian dollar is the strongest, advancing 3.6% and the yen is in third place with a 1.8% gain (after sterling’s 2.25% rise). The technical indicators for dollar-yen, like the RSI and MACDs are not generating particularly strong signals, but the break of the 200-day moving average (~JPY101.70) is notable, and if it sustained in the coming days, more yen shorts might be forced to cover. The dollar also finished the week just below the lower Bollinger Band (~JPY101.44). While the JPY101.00 may offer some support, the May low was set closer to JPY100.80 and the year's low has, thus far, been set just below there in early February. The Canadian dollar has been on a run since early June. On June 5, the US dollar was testing CAD1.0960, and it is now testing support near CAD1.0650. It is below its 200-day moving average for the first time since the Q3 13-Q1 13 period. The recent CPI and retail sales reports provided extra fundamental impetus behind the move that was already underway. The next level of support is seen near CAD1.06, which was a congestion area last December and into early January. The market is a bit over-extended, and that support area may not be easily violated on the first attempts. Sterling is looking a bit tired, and BOE Governor Carney is giving investors indigestion. Still, investors believe that the BOE will be the first of the G7 to hike rates and the market still appears to be more inclined to buy dips. Initial support is seen in the $1.6950 area and then $1.6900-20. It may require a break of the $1.6850 area to spur talk of a top in the $1.7050-60 area. The Australian dollar seems stuck around $0.9400. Support is seen in the band between $0.9350 and $0.9370. The RBA can be expected to try some more jawboning at the policy meeting next week, but clearly it has marginal impact at best. On the other hand, weak retail sales data may provide fodder for those who are not convinced that Australia will make the transition away from mining very smoothly, especially, with the tightening of fiscal policy. The Mexican peso is particularly interesting from a technical point of view. The dollar appears to have carved out a head and shoulders pattern this month, and it finished last week at the neckline (~MXN12.9660). The head was formed by the spike to MXN13.12 on June 17-18. A convincing break of the MXN12.96 area would project dollar losses back toward MXN12.80. Ahead of expectations for another 200k rise in non-farm payrolls, it may be difficult to justify a move below the 2.50% level in the 10-year US Treasury. Some consolidation is likely ahead of the report, with the downtrend line capping the upticks in the 2.56%-2.58% area. Observations from the speculative positioning in the futures market: 1.  Position adjustment in the reporting period ending June 24 were mostly minor.  Only the gross short Canadian dollar positions were adjusted by more than 10k contacts and just barely at that.  Some 10.2k short contracts were bought back, leaving a still substantial 45.9k contracts.  At the same time, gross longs rose by 6k contracts to 40.6k, which is the largest of the year.  The gross short position of 5.3k contracts ist the smallest since last October.   2.  The net long Swiss franc position swung back to the short side (5.4k contracts).  This was a reflection of 6.2k contract reduction of gross long positions to 9.1k contracts, and the addition of 2.7k short contracts to 14.4k.   3.  The euro, Australian dollar and Canadian dollar futures saw a similar pattern of speculators adding to longs and reducing shorts.  The yen and peso saw both long and shorts reduced.  Sterling and the franc saw longs cut and shorts grown.   4.  The net short speculative position in the 10-year Treasury futures fell to 27.3k contracts from 85.8k in the previous week.  The longs were feeling their oats and this was before the GDP shocker.  They added 37k contracts  to 402.7k.  The shorts may have gotten nervous and cut 21.5k contracts (to 430k).            Read more posts on Marc to Market » FREE AppDownload
YouTube/MITNewsOfficeDespite record student debt, the benefits of a college degree still outweigh the costs, according to a new report from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. But the real message to students — especially if you are borrowing is: stay in school. The study, published by Jaison Abel and Richard Deitz, found that the return on a college degree has remained at 15%. (As a point of comparison, Abel and Deitz note that since 1950, investing in stocks or bonds have yielded annual returns of 7% and 3%, respectively.) And though college graduates now make less on an inflation-adjusted basis than they did a decade ago, wages have fallen for all workers regardless of their level of education. In short, you get about as much of a leg up, wage wise, now as you did a decade ago. Federal Reserve Bank of New York Federal Reserve Bank of New YorkAbel and Deitz also find that "net tuition," which they compute as the "sticker price" of attending college minus the aid students receive that doesn't need to be paid back, isn't rising as quickly as gross tuition numbers suggest. They find that the while "sticker price" of a bachelor's degree has increased from $4,600 per year in the 1970s to about $15,000 in 2013, "net tuition" rose from $2,300 a year in 1970 to about $6,500 per year in 2013. Federal Reserve Bank of New YorkAbel and Deitz, however, note that their findings pertain only to students who finish college. They write: "Significantly, our rate of return estimates pertain to those who complete a college degree; the estimates do not account for the risks associated with not completing the degree and dropping out of college. Indeed, while college dropouts incur at least some of the costs associated with going to college, they enjoy far fewer benefits." This message is an often overlooked part of the debate about student loan debt and the effects it will have on our economy going forward.  In addition the Fed's report, yesterday The New York Times discussed a recent study by the Brookings Institute that found debt burdens from student loans have not risen sharply. Among Brookings' findings were that the mean — or simple average — of student debt held has increased over the last decade; however, the median — or midpoint — of all debt held actually decreased from 2007-2010. In other words, there are more outliers taking on massive amounts of debt, but not enough to lift the average Brookings InstituteThe Times' piece caused a bit of a kerfuffle on the internet. Brookings fellow Matthew Chingos, one of the authors of the Brookings study, told The Times' David Leonhardt, "We are certainly not arguing that the state of the American economy and the higher education system is just great. But we do think that the data undermine the prevailing sky-is-falling-type narrative around student debt." Leonhardt also noted the problem with dropping out of college after taking out loans, writing that, "The vastly bigger problem is the hundreds of thousands of people who emerge from college with a modest amount of debt yet no degree. For them, college is akin to a house that they had to make the down payment on but can't live in." There is no denying that there are lots of students taking on lots of debt to attend college. But where some see a growing burden that will hamper the economy long-term, others see a clear message that college is still a sound investment. At the very least, finish your degree. FREE AppDownload
Bespoke Investment GroupWe've been talking a lot about volatility in the market. Or more specifically, the lack of volatility in markets. The S&amp;P 500 hasn't moved more than 1% up or down during any session this month, and the Dow has only gained or loss 100 points three times.  U.S. investors, and particularly folks on Wall Street, may want more volatility, but be careful what you wish for.  Bespoke Investment Group has put out a list of the 40 most volatile stock markets in the world. The markets seeing the most volatility these days have dealt with government debt defaults, overheated housing markets, bank runs, and nearly 27% unemployment. Topping Bespoke's list over the last month is Argentina, with two United Arab Emirates markets, Greece, Bulgaria, and Russia also experiencing large gyrations. Argentina, which had been embroiled in a fight with hedge funders over debt it had been refusing to pay, had its case tossed by the Supreme Court and will be forced to pay. The day of the Supreme Court's decision, Argentina's stock market fell 12%. Dubai has been dealing with an overheated property market, and earlier this week saw its stock market sell off sharply. Last Friday, Bulgaria was forced to takeover its fourth-largest bank, Corporate Commercial Bank, following a run on the bank. Russia has been dealing with the situation in Ukraine. And Greece is still, well, Greece. Investors may be clamoring for more action in the market, but this kind of serious volatility typically comes at a steep price. FREE AppDownload
Sean Gallup/Getty ImagesChancellor of Germany Angela MerkelEurope's fragile recovery is stalling, a batch of economic data showed this week, with analysts warning that France, with the eurozone's second-biggest economy, could be slipping into another downturn. Even the eurozone's economic powerhouse Germany -- whose performance is increasingly divergent from laggard France -- is starting to show signs of slowing growth and posted the lowest inflation for four years at 0.9 percent. This adds to concerns that the spectre of eurozone deflation is coming closer. Just a month ago, EU Economic Affairs Commissioner Siim Kallas sounded the all-clear for the bloc's economic health, saying that a "recovery has taken hold". With Portugal joining Ireland in exiting a billion-euro bailout programme, and even Greece successfully raising money on the markets, the eurozone was looking to put its debt crisis behind it. Analysts have backed this up from the standpoint of monetary policy, saying that decisions by the European Central Bank in the last two years to underpin the eurozone debt market have doused the debt crisis. But, almost as quickly, data has emerged suggesting that the fallout from that crisis still weighs heavily on confidence, investment and growth. The outlook for the French economy suffered several setbacks this week: official data showed a high payments deficit, a leading survey suggested that output is shrinking, and the state statistics agency forecast weaker growth than expected for 2014. On Friday, the agency said the economy stagnated in the first quarter, and on Thursday official data showed a new rise in unemployment to a record 3.388 million people. "France risks getting left behind in the eurozone economic recovery," said Christian Schulz, a Berenberg bank analyst. "While the former crisis countries in the south have caught up with the Eurozone average in sentiment indicators, France has fallen behind," he said, referring to a survey on overall eurozone business activity. The survey found that leading indicators across the zone had slipped from 53.5 points on the index in May to 52.8 points in June, still above the 50-point expansion level, but a setback at a point in the recovery cycle when it should be rising. Chris Williamson, the chief economist at Markit Economics, which ran the survey, said: "France appears to be entering a renewed downturn after GDP (gross domestic product) stagnated in the first quarter." That survey showed business activity in France slumping to 48.0 points from 49.3 points, below the 50-point line which marks the difference between expansion and shrinkage of the economy. On the other side of the scale, heavyweight Germany was still in expansion territory, at 54.2 points. But even Germany was starting to flag, as the Ifo economic institute's closely-watched business climate index tumbled to a six month low in June. It was also the third drop in four months. "The further decline in expectations suggests that businesses have been unimpressed by the ECB's recent actions and bodes ill for actual activity in the coming months," said Capital Economics economist Jennifer McKeown. "These early signs of a slowdown are a disappointing indication that the eurozone's main engine is sputtering long before the region's spare capacity has been eroded. "This adds to the risk of deflation in the single currency area," she added. Inflation has been weak across the bloc: as well as hitting a four-year-low in Germany, it is unduly weak in Spain and Italy. The trend of low inflation had pushed the ECB to roll out an unprecedented package of measures early in June, including negative interest rates, as it sought to head off the spectre of deflation, a potentially crippling downward spiral of falling prices. Analysts warn that the threat of deflation, which can delay investment and household purchases, cut demand and raise unemployment, still lurked. Bank of America Merrill Lynch analysts see the biggest danger for Spain, Ireland and Portugal, followed by Italy, France and Germany. "Market-based measures of inflation expectations seem to be stabilising at very low levels while firms are not displaying signs of a changed perception of their pricing power," they said. Tom Rogers, senior economic advisor at EY Eurozone Forecast, also cited deflation as a "significant risk". "Although the ECB remains alert to the threat of deflation, some governing council members' aversion to the use of unconventional measures such as quantitative easing suggests that the ECB will remain loathe to taking more decisive action," he said. At Capital Economics in London, senior European economist Jennifer McKeown commented that the latest EU business and consumer survey "adds to signs that the eurozone recovery could be nearing a peak when it has hardly begun". This, together with weak inflation, would raise pressure on the ECB which was likely eventually to resort to a "full-blown" programme of quantitative easing, she said, meaning a programme to buy up government debt. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved. This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsBlackjack, also known as 21, seems like it's one of the easiest card games out there. The objective is to get a higher score than the dealer without surpassing 21. And, ideally, you want to get blackjack. But if you think that blackjack is easy, that probably means that you don't actually know all of the rules, or how to maximize your strategy. There are lots of variations of blackjack, usually depending on the casino, but we're going to go over some of the universal rules and strategies in the game. And if you start to feel a bit confused while reading this - well, that just means that you're starting to understand the game. First thing's first. The cards' values. Cards with the numbers 2 through 10 have their face value - that's pretty easy. Jacks, queens, and kings are valued at 10 points. Aces can be 1 or 11 points. What 'blackjack' actually means. Surprisingly, lots of people think that blackjack is any card total that sums up to 21. But "blackjack" - also called "natural 21" - is only when you add up to 21 on the first two cards that you are dealt. You need to get an Ace and one of the 10-value cards for this to happen. Basic rules of betting in blackjack. There are always minimum and maximum bets in blackjack. In some casinos, like Caesars, you can go all the way up to $50,000. But the fun stuff comes after you've made your bet. Let's say that you bet $100. If you lose, the dealer gets your $100. If you win, you get your original $100 bet back, plus the dealer gives you $100. If you draw (or push) you keep your bet money. And if you get blackjack, you get your original $100 bet back, plus $150 from the dealer because for blackjack, you get 1.5 times your bet. Blackjack is fundamentally a two-person game. Sometimes players get too caught up in what the other people at the table are doing. But it is important to remember that you are only playing against the dealer. If you lose that mindset, it will affect your play. Understand what "Blackjack 3 to 2" means. Somewhere on the blackjack table there will be a sign that says, "blackjack pays 3 to 2". All this means is that you, the player, will get $3 for every $2 you wager. This is standard, and gives the house slightly elevated odds. If you see "Blackjack pays 6 to 5" run away from that casino. Be careful. Sometimes the house has different odds. A lot of rookie players make the mistake of thinking that 6 to 5 is more profitable that 3 to 2. They see that they get $6 from the 6 to 5, and $3 from the 3 to 2, and think, "Hey, $6 is more than $3 - great news for me." But the important thing to consider is the ratios. In this case, 6 to 5 is smaller than 3 to 2 - which means that the house is great odds. Bottom line, you're going to lose a lot of money. If you see "Blackjack pays 2 to 1", that's good news for you. This doesn't happen often anymore because most casino owners have figured out that 2 to 1 actually gives the player better odds than the house. But in case you do stumble upon a casino like this, make the most of it. Hit versus stand. Let's say that the first two cards you are dealt are a 2 and a 7. This adds up to 9, which is far from 21. You have the option of getting a hit, or an additional card. Let's say that the next one you get is a 10. Now your total is 19, which is close to 21. Here, you should choose to stand, which means that your final score for the round is 19. Remember that you don't want to go over 21 or else you will bust because then you automatically lose. Double Down. If after you've received your first two cards you are fairly confident that you're going to beat the dealer, you can increase your original bet by as much as 2 times the bet (It depends on the casino, though - sometimes you can only increase by exactly 2 times the bet.) This can be one of the more profitable options in blackjack, but don't let overconfidence get the best of you. Split. If you are initially dealt two cards of equal value, you can split them. After they're split, you play as though you have two hands. This is an especially smart choice if you are dealt two 8's because they total to 16, which is the worst number to get. This way you can increase your odds on a particularly bad pair. Note: make sure to check with the casino if you are allowed to split all 10-values. Sometimes you can split pairings like Ten-Queen. Surrender. After you have been dealt the first two cards, if you feel as though you have a lousy hand compared to the dealer, you can surrender. This means that you will reclaim half of your bet and the dealer will keep the other half of your bet. It's smart to do this in a situation when you have a bad combination (again, some sort of combination that gives you 16) and the dealer is showing either an Ace or a 10. Make sure you don't surrender too often though, because then you're just losing money. Insurance. Insurance confuses a lot of people, but basically all it means is that you are insuring yourself against the dealer having blackjack. After you see that the dealer's upcard (or his visible card) is an Ace, you can create a side bet betting that the dealer will get blackjack. This side bet is completely independent of your original wager. The idea is to even out the money you would lose if the dealer got blackjack, versus the money you would gain from your bet. Be careful, though, because this bet is designed to lose in the long run. A dealer is only supposed to have blackjack less than 1/3 of the time when his upcard is an Ace. Now that you're armed with basic knowledge and some playing strategy, you're ready to face the dealer. Get out there and see what you can do. FREE AppDownload
Note from dshort: The NYSE has released new data for margin debt, now available through May. I've updated the charts in this commentary to include the latest numbers. The New York Stock Exchange publishes end-of-month data for margin debt on the NYXdata website, where we can also find historical data back to 1959. Let's examine the numbers and study the relationship between margin debt and the market, using the S&amp;P 500 as the surrogate for the latter. The first chart shows the two series in real terms — adjusted for inflation to today's dollar using the Consumer Price Index as the deflator. I picked 1995 as an arbitrary start date. We were well into the Boomer Bull Market that began in 1982 and approaching the start of the Tech Bubble that shaped investor sentiment during the second half of the decade. The astonishing surge in leverage in late 1999 peaked in March 2000, the same month that the S&amp;P 500 hit its all-time daily high, although the highest monthly close for that year was five months later in August. A similar surge began in 2006, peaking in July 2007, three months before the market peak. The latest data puts margin debt in its second month of decline following a record high.  Click for a larger image The next chart shows the percentage growth of the two data series from the same 1995 starting date, again based on real (inflation-adjusted) data. I've added markers to show the precise monthly values and added callouts to show the month. Margin debt grew at a rate comparable to the market from 1995 to late summer of 2000 before soaring into the stratosphere. The two synchronized in their rate of contraction in early 2001. But with recovery after the Tech Crash, margin debt gradually returned to a growth rate closer to its former self in the second half of the 1990s rather than the more restrained real growth of the S&amp;P 500. But by September of 2006, margin again went ballistic. It finally peaked in the summer of 2007, about three months before the market.  Click for a larger image After the market low of 2009, margin debt again went on a tear until the contraction in late spring of 2010. The summer doldrums promptly ended when Chairman Bernanke hinted of more quantitative easing in his August, 2010 Jackson Hole speech. The appetite for margin instantly returned, and the Fed periodically increased the easing until the beginning of tapering purchases now underway. The latest Margin Data Unfortunately, the NYSE margin debt data is about a month old when it is published. Following its February peak, real margin declined sharply for two months, -3.9% in March -3.2% in April. However the May data shows a slight increase, 0.3%, in the debt level. It will be interesting to determine in the months ahead if February remain the all-time high or the May reversal will pick up steam. NYSE Investor Credit Lance Roberts of STA Wealth Management analyzes margin debt in the larger context that includes free cash accounts and credit balances in margin accounts. Essentially, he calculates the Credit Balance as the sum of Free Credit Cash Accounts and Credit Balances in Margin Accounts minus Margin Debt. The chart below illustrates the mathematics of Credit Balance with an overlay of the S&amp;P 500. Note that the chart below is based on nominal data, not adjusted for inflation.  Click for a larger image Here's a slightly closer look at the data, starting with 1995. Also, I've inverted the S&amp;P 500 monthly closes and used markers to pinpoint the monthly close values.  Click for a larger image As I pointed out above, the NYSE margin debt data is a several weeks old when it is published. Thus, even though it may in theory be a leading indicator, a major shift in margin debt isn't immediately evident. Nevertheless, we see that the troughs in the monthly net credit balance preceded peaks in the monthly S&amp;P 500 closes by six months in 2000 and four months in 2007. The most recent S&amp;P 500 correction greater than 10% was the 19.39% selloff in 2011 from April 29th to October 3rd. Investor Credit hit a negative extreme in March 2011. There are too few peak/trough episodes in this overlay series to take the latest credit-balance data as a leading indicator of a major selloff in U.S. equities. But we'll definitely want to keep an eye on this metric in the months ahead. Note on the data: The NYSE website only posts the Free Credit Cash Accounts data back to 2003. The Free Credit Cash Accounts data back to 1980 is available on a fee basis from Haver Analytics. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersCalifornia Governor Jerry BrownCalifornia Governor Jerry Brown on Saturday signed into law a bill that clears away possible state-level obstacles to alternative currencies such as bitcoin. The legislation repeals what backers said was an outdated California law prohibiting commerce using anything but U.S. currency. Democratic Assemblyman Roger Dickinson, the bill's author, said earlier this week the bill reflects the popularity of forms of payment already in use in California like bitcoin and that even rewards points from businesses, such as Starbucks Stars, could technically be considered illegal without an update to currency law in the nation's most populous state. California lawmakers approved the measure on Monday, just days after the failed Tokyo-based bitcoin exchange Mt. Gox received court approval to begin bankruptcy proceedings in the United States as it awaits approval of a settlement with U.S. customers and a sale of its business. Mt. Gox was once the world's leading exchange for trading the digital currency, but shut its website earlier this year after saying that in a hacking attack it lost some 850,000 bitcoins, worth more than $500 million at current prices. The firm later said it found 200,000 bitcoins. Brown, a Democrat, in his office's written announcement did not comment on the currency bill he had signed into law along with other legislation. An analysis of the bill prepared for lawmakers mentions "community currencies", which are created by members of a local area along with participating merchants and are sometimes designed as a protest of U.S. monetary policies, among the forms of alternative payment methods now in use in certain parts of the United States. The U.S. Marshals Service on Friday auctioned off about 30,000 bitcoins seized during a raid on Silk Road, an Internet black-market bazaar where authorities say illegal drugs and other goods could be bought. FREE AppDownload
