Thomson ReutersA United Airlines' Boeing Co's 787 Dreamliner plane taxis after landing following its flight from Los Angeles, at New Tokyo international airport in NaritaBy Alwyn Scott SEATTLE (Reuters) - The U.S. aviation safety regulator has proposed requiring operators of some Boeing Co  787 Dreamliners to replace parts near the plane's lithium battery in an effort to improve the plane's ability to fight an on-board fire. In a directive issued on Tuesday, the Federal Aviation Administration said it had received reports that some 787-8 planes did not have foam-like plugs properly installed as required to keep a fire-suppression chemical in an electrical compartment in the plane. In the event of a fire, the FAA said, the condition could cause loss of the suppression chemical, known as Halon, in cargo areas, "and result in the inability to extinguish a fire and consequent loss of control of the airplane." The compartment, known as the forward electrical equipment bay, is where one of the 787's two lithium batteries is located. The plugs go into "stringers," structural elements that run along the length of the fuselage. The fix doesn't affect the plane's battery system, Boeing said. Boeing's 787 was grounded for three months last year after lithium batteries overheated, prompting Boeing to redesign the battery, charger and containment system. The FAA rule applies to three U.S. planes but is likely to influence foreign operators. Boeing said it had already advised operators to update the plugs "to ensure they are secured in the desired design configuration." Boeing recommended in May that operators fix the problem within two years. On Thursday, the Chicago-based company said it agreed with the FAA's proposal to require operators make the fix within a year. The problem affects 88 planes of the 183 delivered through August, Boeing said. "An engineering review determined that this improper configuration does not present an immediate safety concern for several reasons, including redundancies designed into the system and the extremely low likelihood of system activation," Boeing said in a statement. "Regardless, it is important to return airplanes to their proper configuration," it added. "We support the FAA’s proposed rule, which would make mandatory the recommendations we provided to our operators four months ago," Boeing said.   (Reporting by Alwyn Scott; Editing by Jeremy Laurence) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA man looks at an electronic board displaying Japan's Nikkei average and the stock price indexes of various countries outside a brokerage in TokyoBy Lisa Twaronite TOKYO (Reuters) - Asian shares got off to a rocky start on Friday after a sharp drop on Wall Street, which curbed enthusiasm for the dollar even after the U.S. unit touched multi-year highs in the previous session. U.S. stocks ended sharply lower, as Apple Inc broke under key technical levels after the tech giant withdrew an update to its new operating system. That pushed the S&amp;P 500 to its biggest one-day decline since July. MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan was down 0.3 percent in early trade, poised for a weekly loss over 2 percent. Japan's Nikkei stock average skidded 1.6 percent, on track to shed more than 1 percent for the week, as a stronger yen exacerbated the risk-averse mood. Data released before the market opened showed Japan's annual core consumer inflation eased in August, in another sign that the Bank of Japan could be forced into additional easing steps to meet its 2 percent price goal sometime next fiscal year. The dollar index, which tracks the greenback against a basket of major currencies, edged down about 0.1 percent to 85.115, after it rose to a four-year high of 85.485 on Thursday. The dollar is on track for its 11th successive weekly rise, something it has not achieved in four decades. "The dollar index strengthened to a new post-2010 high, although it gave back some of its gains amid a tech-driven sell-off in U.S. equities," strategists at Barclays wrote in a note to clients. The yield difference between 10-year U.S. Treasuries and German Bunds widened the most in nearly 15 years on Thursday, putting pressure on the euro. The European unit edged up about 0.1 percent to $1.2759, after falling as low as $1.26955 on trading platform EBS on Thursday, its lowest since November 2012. The dollar was about 0.2 percent lower on the day against its Japanese counterpart at 108.56 yen, pulling away from last week's six-year peak of 109.46. Oil edged higher after the strong dollar weighed on it overnight, with Brent slightly higher at $97.01 a barrel. Spot gold was steady on the day at $1,223.90 an ounce, after rebounding off Thursday's session low of $1,206.85 an ounce, its weakest since Jan. 2.  (Editing by Eric Meijer) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jonathan ErnstUS President Barack Obama looks on as Treasury Secretary Timothy GeithnerNEW YORK (Reuters) - A federal judge said former U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner must give Standard &amp; Poor's documents he used when writing his best-selling memoir, a ruling that could help S&amp;P defend against the government's $5 billion fraud lawsuit over its credit ratings. In a ruling made public on Thursday, U.S. District Judge David Carter in Santa Ana, California said the McGraw Hill Financial Inc &lt;mhfi.n&gt; unit may force Geithner to turn over unedited versions of the documents. S&amp;P believes the documents may support its claim that the February 2013 lawsuit was filed in retaliation for its having downgrading the country's debt 18 months earlier. Carter reviewed the documents before ruling and said the government will have a chance to invoke White House privilege before Geithner must turn them over to S&amp;P. "A former executive official cannot, with one hand, withhold information implicated in a case of significant public importance while, with the other, collect money from sales of a tell-all book containing much the same information," Carter wrote. "The public has a right to every man's evidence." Carter also reviewed dozens of unredacted documents that S&amp;P had sought from the government. He ordered that all but five be turned over to S&amp;P, saying the rating agency had demonstrated a "compelling" or "substantial" to obtain them for its defense. Geithner's book "Stress Test: Reflections on Financial Crises" spent the month of June on the New York Times' hardcover nonfiction best-seller list, ranking fourth in its first week. Jenni LeCompte, a spokeswoman for Geithner, declined to comment. Geithner is now president at Warburg Pincus LLC. A spokesman for the private equity firm did not immediately respond to a request for comment. The U.S. Department of Justice had no immediate comment. "We're pleased that the court is making available to us additional materials," S&amp;P spokesman Edward Sweeney said. The lawsuit accused S&amp;P of inflating ratings to win more fees from issuers and then failing to downgrade debt backed by deteriorating mortgage-backed securities fast enough. Carter's decision is dated Sept. 24. In seeking to keep S&amp;P from seeing Geithner's book notes, lawyers for the former treasury secretary had in court papers said his "privacy, confidentiality, and proprietary interests" should take precedence over full disclosure. S&amp;P has been seeking more information about the government's response to its Aug. 5, 2011 decision to take away the United States' "triple-A" credit rating. It has said Geithner angrily told McGraw Hill Chairman Harold "Terry" McGraw on an Aug. 8, 2011 phone call that he was "accountable" for an alleged $2 trillion math error, and S&amp;P's conduct would be "looked at very carefully." The case is U.S. v. McGraw-Hill Cos et al, U.S. District Court, Central District of California, No. 13-00779.   (Reporting by Jonathan Stempel in New York; Editing by Lisa Shumaker) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Danny MoloshokDennis Lockhart, President, Federal Reserve Bank of AtlantaJACKSON Miss (Reuters) - Atlanta Federal Reserve President Dennis Lockhart said on Thursday that the Fed's main policy statement will almost certainly shift in October as its bond-buying program winds down. The current statement says the Fed will wait "a considerable time" after the end of its bond-buying program before raising interest rates. The end of the bond-buying program means that phrase will have to change, Lockhart said, though the committee may just drop the reference to the asset purchases and keep the rest of the language. With the softening economy, Lockhart, for one, said he thinks "considerable time" should remain. He does not currently vote on the Fed's rate committee but will do so next year. "Some adjustment will come because of the reference to the end of asset purchases. That does not mean necessarily that the use of the phrase considerable time will be dropped," Lockhart said. "Whether we like it or not any change in language will be viewed as a signal. As policymakers the question I have to evaluate is do I now want to make that signal?... I would prefer to see a little more time pass to confirm that we are on the path that we think we are on and that we are going to start normalization with our statutory objectives in sight.” He also said that global trends may keep that dollar at its current high levels, particularly the continued weakness in Europe. From the rise in the dollar alone "it is hard to disentangle whether we are getting a vote of confidence or whether the rest of the world is showing more trouble or weakness," he said.   (Reporting By Howard Schneider; Editing by Andrea Ricci) FREE AppDownload
Sooner or later, the Federal Reserve will begin normalizing monetary policy, which means higher interest rates are coming. This has investors rightfully worried because higher rates mean higher interest costs, which should be bad for profits and ultimately stocks. Deutsche Bank Chief US Equity Strategist David Bianco examined the history of Fed rate hikes and their impacts on stocks. "Stocks typically sell-off on the first of a series of rate hikes, but the magnitude and duration of the sell-off depend on conditions," Bianco writes. "During early cycle hikes the initial sell-off was generally small, quickly recovered and further S&amp;P gains came in next three months and longer (like 2004, 1983, 1972). But many sell- offs on late cycle hikes became corrections or even bear markets." Unfortunately, it's only in hindsight do we know where we are in the cycle. "Determining whether it’s early or late in the cycle is subjective, but the shape of the curve, inflation measures, years since the last recession can help," Bianco said. "Next year is likely another mid-cycle year and we don’t expect a severe S&amp;P reaction to hikes, but the risk is the Fed hikes too late or too little and inflation accelerates requiring the Fed to hike to levels higher than expected." Bianco's 27-page research note is riddled with exhibits. But we thought this one was pretty elegant. It's the average price move of the S&amp;P 500 during the four months before and the six months after the first rate hike. It's the average of the last seven hikes. It's not the most helpful chart for people who enjoy obsessing over the details. It does, however, show that the general direction of the stock market tends to be up. Deutsche Bank FREE AppDownload
Derek Halpern/YouTube I was running the sort of fund where people gave me money and then I invested it in other funds. The only problem was, I couldn’t figure out what funds were total scams and what funds were legit. In retrospect, I think about 9 or 10 of the 12 funds I was invested in were total scams. For instance, and this is all in the SEC filings, one fund manager stole $10 million from his fund that I was invested in. He then paid a $50,000 fine when he was caught. Now he’s nowhere. I mean, he’s somewhere but I can’t find him. We’re Facebook friends but the last update was him sitting on a beach and it was updated about five years ago. My investors were furious. They had been making money every month with me. They didn’t want their money back. When I told them I was going to give them their money back, with profits, they were so upset many of them didn’t want me to take a fee. In every business I had ever started, even ones that had totally failed, I had kept good relations with the investors. Except for this one. Not a single relationship survived even though I had made money for everyone. When you can’t figure out how you are making money. It’s time to change. In 1998 when kids in high school were learning how to make websites, I sold my website design business for $15 million. Two years later almost all website design businesses were out of business. And now in 2006, when no matter how hard I tried to figure it out it seemed like the world economy had gone crazy and I didn’t understand how these funds were making money. I pulled out all the money. But I needed something to do or I would quickly go broke. I don’t want to act here like I was totally altruistic. I was so miserable all the time. I felt like I had failed and I was also having problems in my marriage. The sort of problems where you’d get in an argument and get kicked out of a car in the middle of nowhere. I decided to do the only thing I knew how to do and the only thing that has ever made me money ever. I took one thing I loved and married it to another thing I loved. And, thus, created a new thing. I loved Internet businesses, having built and sold one. And I loved the financial business, despite the fact that it was almost all a scam. I shut down my fund. Then, each step that follows was critical to success. If I missed one of these steps I would’ve failed. Each step was a small step. If you focus on big steps, you’ll slip on the small steps. I could’ve used other examples. I could’ve used the debit card business I started. The delivery service I started. The mental health hospital I was involved in. The billion revenues business I’m on the board of directors of and the many other businesses I’ve advised and consulted with and invested in. But the lessons are all the same. Even when something is scalable, don’t be afraid to get down on your hands and knees and be the first part of that scaling. Don’t expect anonymous users to do all your initial hard work. Don’t expect computers to do all your initial hard work. YOU do all your initial hard work. I had so much free content available it obscured the design. Everyone cares too much about design. Value is 10x more important than design. First we designed pages, then after we knew we were going to get big distribution, we made the rest of the site. Then, based on user feedback and more ideas, we designed four more versions before an official launch. The site changed drastically from version 1.0 to version 5.0. Although there was one primary source of distribution (thestreet.com) where I was getting traffic from, I also worked out deals to get traffic from AOL. Yahoo, Forbes, Reuters, and basic advertising. I had competition but they were doing the “build it and they will come” technique. 95% of businesses forget that it’s important to be the first heavy users of your product. A restaurant is a great example of this. The initial success of a pizza restaurant doesn’t depend just on how good the pizza is, but how many of your friends and their friends come in the door to buy it. Don’t be afraid to call everyone in your rolodex to come on over and try the pizza. Actually, this is not quite true either. When I first realized I had competition, I cried. I actually called the developers in India and told them it was all over. They had to cheer me up. One thing I learned ultimately, was that the biggest asset the business had was the passion my partner and I had for it. That passion was much higher than the passion of our competitors so we ended up creating and implementing the best ideas. End of competition. I cold-called Yahoo, AOL, and Forbes to get on their radar. In fact, I had a “negative network”. The first guy I called at Yahoo said he knew me. “Oh yeah?” I said because I had no idea who he was. He said, “Yeah, I invested in your wireless internet business and lost my investment.” You would think that would have hurt my chances. Yahoo became one of my biggest sources of distribution after that call. That guy became my biggest advocate within Yahoo. The key is to anticipate what they might want, show them how it will cost them nothing but they will get huge benefit from it, and then just simply do it. Make it as easy as possible for the other side to say “yes” before you ask them. If you want someone to say “yes”, show them exactly what “yes” looks like and show them that it is already made. I had been 20 years already in the technology business (since I was in college). And I had been in the financial industry for about seven years then. So I combined interests and made the best financial website. Nobody else was as well-placed in this intersection as I was. I wanted a site with no news, but tons of interesting ideas, perspectives, ideas, and community. Investing based on news is the fastest way to poverty but it is very common in the hedge fund business for professional investors to call each other and exchange ideas. Hedge fund managers are on the phone all day with each other. I made it very simple for everyone, and not just hedge fund managers, to do that online. Even though I had a 50% distribution partner right from the beginning I was constantly meeting with companies and people to see what extra deals I could make. I would come up with ideas about the value I could deliver them and then I would offer up that value. Maybe they needed a white label version of my site. Maybe they needed content from my site. Maybe they needed their blog to be distributed on my site, maybe they wanted their newsletter sold on my site. I did any deal I could do. Until finally I sold the site. But that wasn’t even the final deal. I stuck with it and the site continued to grow. There were constant cases where the code was bad on the site and the site would crash if it had too many users at the same time. Every other week I thought I was going to have a heart attack because the site kept crashing. And some companies were very slow to do deals with me. Some companies outright rejected me (Google). You can’t be bitter or burn bridges. There may come another day, another company, or all the people at Google might move to other places where you do business with. The key here is to always stay in touch and provide monthly updates showing how you are improving things. Always be willing to help people no matter what. Every step of the way I was willing to give up if I didn’t see some form of traction. Sometimes that meant more users. Sometimes that meant more profits. Sometimes that meant more technology that I really liked and ideas implemented that people wrote great reviews about. I traveled around the country holding meetups with the most active users so I could see with my own eyes how the site was helping people. It was exciting to me. As long as I had that excitement, I knew something was working. The people who showed up at those meetups became almost like ambassadors for the site. They were so active they used the site more than me. Nothing beats face to face meeting to build your ambassadors. Why did I go myself to most of these meetups? There’s a saying in Argentina, “When the CEO is looking, the cow grows fatter.” A business builds fastest when the CEO is looking at it. There’s a thousand details that the CEO sees. There’s 100 details that the COO sees. There’s 10 details that the regular employee sees. And details slip through the cracks when there is nobody. At the same time I had also started a dating site (or four) and none of them got traction even though the sites were beautiful and I had smoked my own crack and thought the businesses were great. But no users equals no traction. Perseverance is like a fire that needs oxygen. Love is the oxygen for perseverance. You can love it. Users can love it. Partners can love it. Investors can love it. There are a lot of sources of love. Businesses and humans need love to live. Ultimately, you create value for people and that’s how you build the love. Business is just the delivery mechanism of that love. Then love + perseverance = abundance. I sold that business for $10 million and then two years later I was dead broke because once again I forgot all about love. I squandered the love. I forgot my small successes and made them into a big failure. So I had to start from scratch again. Which I did.    This article originally appeared at The Altucher Confidential.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Visual CapitalistThe market for precious metals is not as big as you might think. One year's worth of mined platinum is only the size of a car. But it's worth about $8 billion. Visual Capitalist took one year's production of eight commodities, lumped each of them into a three-dimensional cubes, and put them next to landmarks around the world.  They also calculated the value of each cube. FREE AppDownload
APFounder of Bridgewater Associates Ray Dalio.Bridgewater Associates founder and chair Ray Dalio is one of America's most powerful investors and has an estimated net worth of $15.2 billion. It's safe to say he understands success. He and fellow self-made billionaire and Harvard Business School alum Michael Bloomberg talked about that subject at the Bloomberg Markets Most Influential Summit on Monday. At one point moderator Stephanie Ruhle asked the two how they deal with an accomplished new hire's huge ego. Dalio said Bridgewater's culture always breaks them down because the new hire sees really quickly that no one is resting on their laurels. He says that's the key to being successful. "Everybody's struggling. If you're not struggling then you're not operating at a high enough level. Right? As you go to a new job, as you go to higher and higher levels, you're gonna be struggling, you're gonna fall," he said. To Dalio, arrogance can become an excuse to be lazy. "[I]f you want to be powerful, you have to have humility," Dalio said. In an earlier comment, Bloomberg said that the most successful people never lose a constant, exhausting drive, whether they're just starting out or decades into their career. "From the moment you get up to the moment you go to bed, you want to be overscheduled and rushing from one thing to another. There's no greater high," Bloomberg said. You can watch the full interview over at Bloomberg. FREE AppDownload
YouTubeA scene from Wednesday's "The Five."  During the Wednesday airing of "The Five," co-hosts Greg Gutfeld and Eric Bolling made fun of Arab Emirates Maj. Mariam Al Mansouri, who is participating in the coalition airstrikes against the Islamic State jihadist group. “Problem is, after she bombed it, she couldn’t park it," Gutfeld said. "Would that be considered boobs on the ground, or no?" asked Bolling. Update (8:32 p.m.): Bolling apologized during the show's Thursday program. View the original segment below.  (h/t Politico)    FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Noah BergerInvestors poured cold water on stocks on Thursday.Markets got crushed on Thursday with the Nasdaq logging the largest percentage losses. Stocks gave up all of their gains, and then some, from Wednesday. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Thursday: 1. Stocks had an awful day. The market opened lower and quickly fell towards its worst levels as the market gave up all of its gains from Wednesday. In a note near noon, Dave Lutz of JonesTrading wrapped up some of the reasons traders were citing for the sell-off, including rumors of a hedge fund in trouble, a technical breakdown in the S&amp;P 500, and hawkish comments from Dallas Fed president Richard Fisher, among other things. As the NYSE's Rich Barry said, "They are throwing everything at this market today, and we're not very happy about it." 2. On Thursday morning, we got several pieces of economic data, including the weekly report on initial jobless claims. The report showed that claims rose to 293,000 from last week's revised 281,000, which was better than the 296,000 expected by economists. Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro called the report, "a modest rebound," and added that, "claims have dropped dramatically over the past couple of years, and might even still be declining. The key point, though, is that claims are already low enough to signal big payroll increases, other things equal." 3. Durable goods orders in August fell a record 18.2%, but this followed the record increase of 22.6% seen in July, and Shepherdson said to ignore the headline number, as the core durable goods number which strips out transportation spending — responsible for both the huge rise and sharp fall in the last two months — rose 0.7%. 4. Markit's flash service sector PMI reading for September came in at 58.5, below expectations for 59.2 but indicating that strength in the sector remains strong. In a release, Markit said, "A further strong increase in business activity reflected steep and accelerated growth of incoming new work in September. The latest rise in new business volumes was the sharpest since June and one of the fastest seen over the five-year survey history." 5. Earlier this week we highlighted the so-called "Death Cross" in the Russell 2000, a technical indicator that many see as a clear reversal in the market's trend. And while some may view technical analysis as not the best way to look at stocks, Business Insider's Joe Weisenthal noted that after some of the ugly market action this week, it looks like the Death Cross was really something worth paying attention. So far, at least.  6. Apple shares had a terrible day, falling more than 3% as the iPhone maker continues to deal with the fallout from Wednesday's failed software update and concerns over the durability of its just-released iPhone 6 and 6 Plus models. Apple, which is the largest company by market cap on the US markets, is the largest component of both the S&amp;P 500 and the Nasdaq Composite and weighed on both of those indexes.  7. Oil has had a terrible summer, and on Thursday, market guru Ed Yardeni highlighted the waning demand in global crude oil supply. Yardeni wrote: "Demand growth among the advanced economies of the OECD remained slightly negative for the fifth consecutive month. It has been mostly negative since September 2011. Among the other economies, growth was 1.9% during August, the lowest since September 2009." Don't Miss: This Basic Investing Strategy Is The Best Way To Buy Stocks If You Fear A Market Crash » FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesMarc AndreessenNetscape founder and Andreessen Horowitz partner Marc Andreessen has joined the chorus of people warning that startups are taking on too much risk and burning too much cash. The so-called startup burn rate conversation was sparked by Benchmark's Bill Gurley, who recently told The Wall Street Journal that "Silicon Valley as a whole ... is taking on an excessive amount of risk right now." He believes startups are burning a dangerous amount of cash — an amount that resembles 1999 just before the dotcom bubble burst. Here was Andreessen's own warning on Twitter: "When the market turns, and it will turn, we will find out who has been swimming without trunks on. Many high burn rate companies will VAPORIZE."  Over the past few years, it's been relatively easy for startups to raise money from venture capitalists. In some cases, they're raising hundreds of millions of dollars to keep their companies afloat. But behind the scenes, they're plowing through that money either on marketing, overhead, or some other expense, which results in high burn rates. These bloated companies are using their millions to hide serious flaws in their business models. Union Square Ventures' Fred Wilson agreed with Gurley, stating: "We have multiple portfolio companies burning multiple millions of dollars a month. Thankfully its not our entire portfolio. But it is more than I’d like and more than I’m personally comfortable with." Wilson's firm has invested in companies such as MongoDB, Twitter, Foursquare, Zynga and Tumblr. Gurley's has invested in Snapchat, Uber, OpenTable and Yelp. Now Andreessen, who's an investor in Pinterest, Foursquare and Fab, also says the tech world should be worried. High burn rates are dangerous for a few reasons. Andreessen explains:  Andreessen's final message to the tech industry: "Worry." Here's the complete 18-Tweet tweetstorm, below. Disclosure: Marc Andreessen is an investor in Business Insider. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Vincent WestFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Even Families Making Greater Than $250,000 Shouldn't Retire Early, But They Sometimes Don't Have A Choice (Financial Advisor Magazine) "Even among the affluent, retiring early can be dangerously risky," Ted Knutson who cites the work of Katherine Roy, chief strategist at J. P. Morgan Asset Management. "For families who make $250,000 or more per year, retiring two years early would require an annual lifetime savings rate 2% higher or a 15% cut in projected retirement spending." Knutson notes that "every additional year of work adds financial assets that help support an additional five years in retirement." However, people are often forced into early retirement. Over 50% of retired seniors cited health problems or disabilities as the main reason for early retirement. 23% said that they needed to take care of a family member. And 17% said that their employers were downsizing or bankrupt. In other words, even though it is the financially responsible decision to retire later, that is often not an option for seniors. Investors Should Be Wary Of Treasuries With 2-5 Year Maturities (BlackRock Blog) Last week Janet Yellen announced that when the Fed ends its monthly bond purchases, then short-term interest rates will remain from 0 to 0.25% for "a considerable time." The discrepancy between the market and the Fed rate expectations has short and long-term implications for investors, according to BlackRock's Matthew Tucker. "First, they should be aware that the gap between the Fed's rate guidance and the futures market may be reconciled, but it's too early to tell which will move and when. Given this uncertainty, we remain cautious on Treasuries with 2 to 5 year maturities as they may re-price quickly if the Fed's tone changes." Tucker adds that he will be closely watching the Fed's October statement for any signs that rates will increase. Historically, floating rate notes are a popular investment when rate increases. Therefore, in the long run, when the Fed eventually starts to raise rates, investors will probably "move out of fixed rate bonds and into floating rate notes, such as the iShares Floating Rate Bond ETF," according to Tucker. During the last "tightening cycle" floating rates not only outperformed fixed rate bonds, but they were also less volatile. Advisers Have Come Up With Several Strategies In Light Of The New IRS After-Tax Rollover (Investment News) The IRS recently indicated that it would "allow savers to break out the after-tax portion of money they've contributed to a retirement plan and convert it to a Roth IRA free of taxes," which will affect distributions starting January 1, 2015. Financial advisors have several strategies in order to take advantage of this new rollover. High-earning client should consider what Jim McGowan (of Marshall Financial Group) calls the "mega backdoor Roth contribution", where clients will add the after-tax dollars to a 401(k) and then roll over the after-tax contributions after they leave the employer. The other option is to take advantage of plans that allow in-service distributions instead of waiting for a job change or retirement. "Move that after-tax money to a Roth IRA using an in-service distribution," McGowan said. However, there is "a massive obstacle": there needs to be a workplace program that allows clients to save the after-tax dollars in the plan. And advisers have said that "after-tax savings programs aren't a common feature at the employers they're working with." Some companies have actively moved away from these programs. The Largest US Aggregate Dividend Payers Are Large-Cap Companies (Financial Planning) The largest US aggregate dividend payers are large-cap companies. This is unsurprising because they have "the financial strength to pump out cash to shareholders on a regular basis," according to Financial Planning. Several of the top 10 have been increasing dividends for years, and others are relative newcomers. The three long-term giants are Exxon, Johnson &amp; Johnson, and Proctor &amp; Gamble. Exxon is the largest publicly traded international integrated oil and gas company, and "over the past 31 years Exxon's dividend has increased at an average annual rate of 6.3%." Johnson &amp; Johnson has increased its dividend for 52 consecutive years, and P&amp;G has increased its annual dividend for the past 58 years. Some of the newer companies are AT&amp;T, and Microsoft. AT&amp;T's dividends have increased about 4.5% annually over the last decade, and Microsoft's dividend has risen 1,450% since 2003. Companies With Women On The Board Outperform Companies That Only Have Men (Credit Suisse) Companies with a market cap greater than US$ 10 billion that have at least one woman on the board of directors outperformed those that have no women, according to a new report by Credit Suisse. For the six years leading up to 2011, companies with at least one woman outperformed others by 26%. And from 2012 to June 2014, those same companies outperformed by 5%. Since 2005, that's a compound excess return of 3.3%. Countries in the Asia-Pacific saw the greatest outperformance with 55% excess cumulative return. They were followed by the US with 20% outperformance and Europe with 18% outperformance. Credit Suisse FREE AppDownload
Sometimes it seems like the world is falling apart. Between Ebola, climate change, Russia's invasion of the Ukraine, and the ongoing war in Iraq and Syria, there's bad news everywhere you look. Yet while speaking at the UN on September 24, President Obama said that he often tells young people in the United States "that this is the best time in human history to be born, for you are more likely than ever before to be literate, to be healthy, and to be free to pursue your dreams." So, is this really be the best time to be born? Absolutely, by many measures — whether you are born in the US or the rest of the world. Despite the fact that plenty of problems exist, people are healthier now than ever, the world has become significantly less violent, and education is more available now than it ever has been. Here are 23 charts that show why this is the best time to be born. We've made this graphic that shows how both have changed since then.  The countries are color-coded by region: red is East Asia and the Pacific, orange is Europe and Central Asia, yellow is the Americas, green is the Middle East and North Africa, light blue is South Asia, and dark blue is Sub-Saharan Africa. (An interactive version is available here.) Health Resources and Services Administration Richard Peto, Alan D. Lopez, Ole F. Norheim Bill Gates uses this chart to help demonstrate the ways that vaccines have transformed our world.  This chart shows the change in morbidity from various diseases in the US from the pre-vaccine era to the modern era. Leon Farrant In 1988, the World Health Assembly decided to start tyring to eliminate polio from the world through comprehensive vaccination programs. Look at the progress so far. CDC This charts shows changes in the US since 1960. Health Resources and Services Administration World Health Organization Global income distribution has shifted so that many people who were making $1 a day are now more likely to make $10 a day.  This chart divides the world into those above the middle class, the middle class, the near poor, the moderately poor, and the extremely poor. Obviously, there's still room for progress, but the percentage of workers that are middle class and above has grown. International Labour Organization Harvard psychology professor Steven Pinker explains that violence of all sorts has been declining for years — by most measures, we're living in the most peaceful time in human history. Human Security Report Project/2013 Report The CDC shows that youth homicides are less than 50% of what they were in the mid 1990s. CDC Human Security Report Project Thought there have been some fluctuations, there's a clear trend towards fewer homicides over time. Claude Fischer, professor of sociology, UC Berkeley Steven Pinker It's Getting Better All The Time / Stephen Moore & Julian Simon  UNESCO Better Angels Of Our Nature/Gates Notes "The Improving State of the World" (c) Cato Institute 2007. Used with permission It's Getting Better All The Time / Stephen Moore & Julian Simon   Internation Telecommunications Union/Wikimedia Commons Bill Gates has said "We're on this rising tide that's not recognized. It's overwhelming how prosperity is spread around the world." The world is far from perfect, and there are plenty of areas of improvement needed. But is now the best time in history to be born? We'd say so. FREE AppDownload
Metropolitan life is never dull, but not everyone is cut out for a big city.  City data resource Livability determined the 10 best small towns in America as part of its 2015 list of the Top 100 Best Places to Live. Looking just at "micropolitan" areas with populations of fewer than 20,000 people, the folks at Livability factored in cost of living, health care spending, diversity, crime rates, civic engagement, natural resources, as well as visitor and resident opinions of the towns to come up with the ranking. Here are the 10 best small towns in America. Wikipedia Hailey is a big cycling town with a combination bike shop/restaurant called Power House serving as a neighborhood hub for outdoorsy locals. Of the 10 cities on this list, Hailey had the highest level of employment and the greatest income distribution. Flickr/marada Traverse City is known for its great schools, stable economy, and high home values. The "emerging beer town," which is home to craft breweries like Mackinaw Brewing Company and Jolly Pumpkin Brewery &amp; Distillery, also appears on Livability's list of the best foodie cities. Flickr/Edgar Zuniga, Jr. Heber City's economy, thanks to its mountainous location, is driven by tourists who come for great skiing and hiking. The town is full of fun and culture, with frequent music and arts festivals, parades, and rodeos. Wikipedia Spearfish is surrounded by national parks and picturesque views, and has a lively college town vibe thanks to Black Hills State University. The town has a low carbon footprint and a tons-to-do downtown area full of restaurants, bars, and shops. Glenwood Springs is steeped in "Wild West" history — it remains Doc Holliday's final resting place — and is also home to the world's largest hot springs pool. Residents of Glenwood Springs live mainly healthy lifestyles, and take advantage of good public schools and medical facilities. Wikipedia Port Angeles is, naturally, a port city with great seafood — especially Dungeness crab — and lots of neighborly camaraderie. The environmentally friendly residents are privy to low costs of living and lots to do in the area. Wikimedia Commons Sitting just one hour east of Portland, Hood River receives a lot of the larger city's recent college graduates. Residents of Hood River are treated daily to views of Washington across the river, and one of the largest ski destinations on the west coast — Mt. Hood. Hood River is the place to be for both coffee and craft beer lovers. Google Earth This quintessential New England town borders Vermont and is the perfect destination for local crafts and breathtaking fall foliage. Major companies with facilities in town — like Novell, Microsoft, and Merck — employ many people who live in Lebanon. Wikimedia Commons Northfield is a scenic town, with great running, hiking, and ski trails. Notable in this town's history is the 1876 raid on First National Bank, which residents of Northfield re-enact every year during the Defeat Jesse James Days Festival. Google Earth Secluded but comfortable, Los Alamos is where the first atomic bomb was constructed. Mexican culture and cuisine is prevalent here, and community involvement is the highest of all the towns on this list. Los Alamos also has the lowest crime rate of the 10. FREE AppDownload
The ECB's plan to boost the prospects of small and medium size companies in Europe by purchasing asset-backed securities is likely to fail due to the fracturing of the region's economies. ECB/Gareth Davies JP MorganPeripheral issuers have been excluded from the market. With the announcement of the ABS program it looked as if ECB President Mario Draghi's famous pledge to do "whatever it takes" to save the euro was finally being demonstrated rather than just promised. However, the divergence in economic performance between core countries like Germany and (until recently) France and the periphery including Italy, Greece and Portugal could scupper the central bank's ability to improve the Eurozone's prospects. The problem is that the peripheral economies have been locked out of the securitisation market because they are unable to offer investors enough of a yield to cover the risks they would be taking on. Although the ECB's plan should ease funding costs for these businesses, it is unlikely to be able to make a significant difference unless it can encourage a damaged banking system to take on significantly more risk despite existing financial stresses of borrowers and growing concerns about the broader macroeconomic outlook. As Gareth Davies, credit analyst at J.P. Morgan, said in an interview with the Wall Street Journal: If the ECB buys only ABS backed by SME debt then the stock of bonds available on the open market – about €10 billion – is far too small to have any meaningful impact. For the program to be successful, the ECB would need to buy non-corporate assets, such as ABS backed by residential mortgages, or encourage the issuance of SME-linked deals on a scale never seen before. Non-corporates are private firms or partnerships that do not have access to corporate debt markets. This means that they have not benefitted from the so-called reach for yield by investors that has helped depress debt yields across much of the developed world, leading to a record negative yield on German government debt earlier this month (effectively lenders were paying the German government to borrow). ECBSMEs in distressed countries continue to view access to finance as a very pressing problem. This chart from the ECB shows the funding problems facing small companies in the periphery. SMEs in Greece, Spain, Italy and Portugal all report serious concern surrounding their ability to access finance while Finland, the Netherlands, Austria and Germany all report a far healthier economic environment. What this suggests is that even if the ECB manages to increase the size of its balance sheet through the ABS purchase program, it is likely to benefit the core more than the periphery. Stagnant economies and the threat of deflation across the Eurozone are helping to increase perceived risks for both borrowers and lenders. Though it may seem an odd suggestion considering the events of the recent financial crisis one way to address this problem could be the creation of a supranational mortgage guarantee body — a sort of Eurozone Freddie Mac or Fannie Mae. Mortgage debt traditionally accounts for a large percentage of non-corporate funding and a paper last year suggested that buoyant asset prices could offer one route to an increase in entrepreneurship: We find that an increase in collateral value leads to a higher probability of becoming an entrepreneur. Conditional on entry, entrepreneurs with access to more valuable collateral create larger firms, more value added and are more likely to survive, even in the long run. Of course, with states guaranteeing lending on the one side and central banks purchasing the resulting assets some analysts would argue that it amounts to the housing market "effectively been socialized". That may be true, but unless and until governments are willing to take a share of the risk of funding small businesses directly a socialized housing market may be a necessary evil. FREE AppDownload
In his new book "The Virgin Way," Richard Branson reveals that he loathes speaking in public. This is quite surprising given that the Virgin Group founder is one of the most active business people, doing countless public and media appearances.  Find out how he got over his fear of delivering speeches and his tips on a making a great speech.  Edited by Justin Gmoser. Produced by Graham Flanagan.  Follow BI Video: On Facebook
REUTERSThis will work.Investing in the stock market  can be extremely frustrating for those who look back on the big rally they missed and nerve-wracking for those who believe the may be putting money into the market at the top. The S&amp;P 500 has roared almost 200% from its March 9, 2009 low close of 676 to its high of 2,011 on September 18. With today's big market selloff, some are worrying that we've seen the market peak. This obviously would make investors extremely hesitant to buy stocks for fear of a big decline or perhaps a crash. However, obsessing over this risk could lead to analysis paralysis because you can never know with certainty if the market will indeed crash. And those who constantly stay out of the market for fear of losing money will miss out on some of the best opportunities to buy. Fortunately, there is a very basic investing strategy that can save investors from losing too much hair as they make the decision to buy stocks. It's called dollar-cost averaging. The stock market is great for investors who have the benefit of long-term investing horizons. It's also better-suited for investors who aren't concerned about perfectly-timing market tops and bottoms.  Having said that, taking a longer term view is good for investors worried that they may be buying at the top of the market. A classic strategy called dollar-cost averaging can help reduce risks surrounding an asset falling in price. The concept is straightforward - you invest a fixed amount of money in an asset once every fixed time period. If the asset's price drops, you will be getting more shares of the asset for the same amount of money, and so if and when the price recovers, you will have spent less per share, on average, than if you had bought the shares at their peak, pre-fall price. Dollar-cost averaging isn't about losing money as the stock market falls. It's about buying increasing amounts of shares at cheaper prices, which means bigger returns during the rally. To see this in action, we came up with a simplified thought experiment. We considered what would have happened to an investor jumping into the stock market at the last peak: October 2007. This was arguably the worst time to buy. Our hypothetical investor puts $50 into a S&amp;P 500 index fund at the start of every month, starting in October 2007 — the last stock market peak before the beginning of the great recession. Here is what happened to the S&amp;P 500 starting at that peak: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Yahoo Finance The index dropped more or less steadily until the worst moments of the financial crisis in fall 2008, causing the full on crash, and only began to turn around in March 2009. The key to our investor's experiment is that they are staying consistent. No matter how stock prices move, they will always put $50 every month into the index fund. Based on changes in the value of the S&amp;P 500 index, we calculated our investor's price return, less the $50 monthly cost: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Yahoo Finance The value of our investor's portfolio as of September 1, 2014 is $6,563.97. If they instead had taken their $50 each month and held it as cash, they would have just $4,200. So, the price return on this investment — even though they started at the last peak, just before the market started to go downhill — is $2,363.97. This is a respectable 56% return. That averages out to about a 6.5% annual rate of return. To get another perspective on this, here is the percent gain or loss, compared to taking $50 each month and holding it as cash: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Yahoo Finance Things start out looking pretty dire, as the economy fell into its deep recession through mid-2009, with the S&amp;P 500 reaching a minimum in March of that year. At the lowest point for our investor, at the start of February 2009, she would be down about 36%. Because human beings are often overly risk-averse, our hypothetical investor might have been tempted to abandon their investment plans during the bad months. That is, they might look at this chart and panic about the drop: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Yahoo Finance But, if our investor sticks with their plan and keeps putting $50 in every month, even through the dark times, once the market bounces back, they end up doing quite well: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Yahoo Finance Unfortunately, dollar-cost averaging isn't sexy. It's much sexier to sell at the top and buy at the bottom. Obviously, your returns would be much higher if you win the stock market lottery by perfectly timing the tops and bottoms of the market. However, almost everyone who tries to do this will find themselves losing money and lots of it. If you are investing for the long haul, and can hang on through watching your portfolio's value drop temporarily in bad times, starting to invest in stocks, even near a peak, may not be as terrifying as it looks. The market has always bounced back sooner or later, so if you can hold on until that later, don't panic. FREE AppDownload
equip-bid.comA "Doc Johnson Black Rose Whipping Willow"Auctioned sex toys are reportedly set to help Kansas' state budget woes. According to the Kansas City Star, thousands of adult items — "from lingerie to handcuffs" — are available in an online auction after a chain of erotic tores failed to pay various state taxes. "The items – all new and in the original packaging – will be available for inspection Monday at a warehouse in Kansas City’s West Bottoms historic district," the article, published Thursday morning, said. "The merchandise was seized in July by the Department of Revenue from five adult stores in Kansas City, Kan.; Topeka; Wichita and Junction City. The owner, United Outlets LLC, doing business as Bang, owes the state $163,986." Democrats immediately pounced on the news as a sign that voters need to get rid of Gov. Sam Brownback (R), who is facing a surprisingly competitive re-election fight this November despite the conservative tilt of his state. “Brownback is so desperate to fill the massive hole in the state budget caused by his reckless income tax cuts that the state of Kansas is now in the porn business," Kansas Senate Democratic Leader Anthony Hensley said. However, the state government denied it is actually involved in the sale. "The property was released back to the owner, who then contracted with the auction company to sell the items and then that money will be used to pay the taxes," Jeannine Koranda, spokeswoman for the Department of Revenue, told the Kansas City Star. (h/t Olivier Knox) FREE AppDownload
Flickr/SchenDodge MagnumDETROIT (Reuters) - Chrysler Group LLC, a unit of Fiat SpA &lt;fia.mi&gt;, said it will recall about 350,000 vehicles from the 2008 model year because of a condition that may cause the ignition key to get stuck or inadvertently move. In some cases, the ignition switch could upon startup not stop at the "on" position and instead go to "accessory" or "off" positions, which could kill the engine and keep the front air bags from working, the company said. A more likely occurrence in the affected vehicles, Chrysler said, is that the ignition key may not fully return to the "on" position from "start," which could keep the windshield wipers and defroster from working. Air bags will continue to work if this situation occurs, the company said. Chrysler said it knows of no injuries or deaths related to the issue in the recalled vehicles, and knows of one reported "minor" crash. Affected vehicles are the 2008 model year Dodge Charger and Magnum, Chrysler 300 and Jeep Grand Cherokee and Commander.   (Reporting by Bernie Woodall; Editing by Meredith Mazzilli) FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's BlogThe latest global crude oil demand and supply data from Oil Market Intelligence (OMI) provides additional evidence of the slowdown of global growth this year. While world oil demand rose during August to a record high of 92.7mbd (using the 12-month average to smooth out the volatile monthly data), it was up just 0.8% y/y. That’s down from a recent peak of 1.7% last September, and the lowest growth since May 2012. Demand growth among the advanced economies of the OECD remained slightly negative for the fifth consecutive month. It has been mostly negative since September 2011. Among the other economies, growth was 1.9% during August, the lowest since September 2009. By the way, I also track the ratio of global crude oil demand to supply using the OMI data. It starts in 1994. Our ratio tends to track the y/y percent change in the price of a barrel of Brent crude oil. It has been edging lower in recent months, coinciding with the weakness in Brent. Dr. Ed's BlogToday's Morning Briefing: Cyclical Sectors &amp; the M-PMI. (1) US is hot. Europe is not. (2) Germany’s indicators are falling. (3) US flash M-PMI strong and could be bearish for P/Es of cyclical sectors, or not. (4) Valuation multiples more likely to move sideways for cyclicals, which could be driven higher by earnings. (5) Global oil demand at record high, but growth is decelerating. (6) Both OECD and non-OECD oil demand growth rates slowing. (7) Demand/supply ratio for crude oil has turned bearish lately. (8) Focus on underweight-rated S&amp;P 500 Energy. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
Ralph Orlowski/Getty ImagesThis year, the most influential books cover topics from inequality to digital privacy.Each year, dozens of books detailing business strategies and profiling success stories are published, making it difficult to discern which ones are worth your time. Luckily, an esteemed panel of judges for the annual Financial Times' and McKinsey Business Book of the Year Award (previously Goldman Sachs was a partner) have released a short list of the six most influential books of the year. The topics range from inequality to digital privacy, and the judges hope they will inspire creative thinking and help readers deepen their understanding of today's world, says Lionel Barber, editor of the Financial Times. Panel members include Steve Coll, dean of the School of Journalism at Columbia University and a staff writer at The New Yorker magazine; Steve Denning, chairman of General Atlantic, LLC; and Rik Kirkland, director of publishing for McKinsey &amp; Company. Here are the books that made the list: "Dragnet Nation: A Quest for Privacy, Security, and Freedom in a World of Relentless Surveillance" By Julia Angwin Times Books/Henry Holt "The Second Machine Age: Work, Progress, and Prosperity in a Time of Brilliant Technologies" By Erik Brynjolfsson and Andrew McAfee W. W. Norton Ltd Amazon"Creativity, Inc. Overcoming the Unseen Forces that Stand in the Way of True Inspiration" By Ed Catmull Bantam Press/Transworld Publishers (UK), Random House (US) "Hack Attack: How the Truth Caught Up With Rupert Murdoch" By Nick Davies Chatto &amp; Windus (UK), Faber &amp; Faber (US) "House of Debt: How They (and You) Caused the Great Recession, and How We Can Prevent It from Happening Again" By Atif Mian and Amir Sufi University of Chicago Press "Capital in the Twenty-First Century" By Thomas Piketty Belknap Press/Harvard University Press The winning book will be announced on November 11. Previous winners have included Brad Stone's "The Everything Store: Jeff Bezos and the Age of Amazon" (2013); Steve Coll's "Private Empire: ExxonMobil and American Power" (2012); and Abhijit V. Banerjee and Esther Duflo's "Poor Economics" (2011). FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTexas investor Samuel Wyly exits the Manhattan Federal CourtNEW YORK (Reuters) - Texas tycoon Sam Wyly and his late brother Charles' estate must pay $187.7 million to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for a fraudulent offshore scheme, a U.S. judge said on Thursday. U.S. District Judge Shira Scheindlin in New York ruled that the Wylys brothers must also pay an undetermined amount of interest that appears likely to add significantly to the total. A jury found the Wylys liable for fraud at a trial in May. The brothers were accused of constructing a complex system of trusts in the Isle of Man that netted them $553 million in profits through more than a decade of hidden trades in four companies they controlled: Sterling Software Inc, Michaels Stores Inc [MSII.UL], Sterling Commerce Inc and Scottish Annuity &amp; Life Holdings Ltd, now Scottish Re Group Ltd.   (Reporting by Joseph Ax; Editing by Meredith Mazzilli) FREE AppDownload
Chip Somodevilla/GettyYou've sat through recruiting sessions, and you've networked with bankers. But you're still completely unprepared for what it's actually like to work on the street. Business Insider is here to help. We've put together a list of great advice from Wall Street legends, seasoned professionals and young analysts in order to prepare you for your first year on the street. Maybe take notes if you want to. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ahmed JadallahMarka surged 59% in its first day as a public company in Dubai.  According to Bloomberg's Sarmad Khan, this was first IPO on the Dubai Financial Market in five years. Data from the Dubai Financial Market shows that shares of Marka were priced at 1 U.A.E. dirham, debuted at 1.77, and closed at 1.59 dirhams in their first day of trading. Marka says it hasn't started operations yet but, "its principal activities will be operation of retail stores dealing in luxury apparel, accessories, sports merchandise and airport concessions, as well as restaurants and cafes of mid to high end dining options across global cuisines." So they want to open malls.  You could also call this company a SPAC, or special-purpose acquisition company. (Update: This article, citing a report in Gulf News, previously said Chimera Investment holds a 5% stake in Marka. Chimera Management told Business Insider in a statement that this report is incorrect: Chimera holds no stake in Marka or any other foreign company.) The company's most recent financial statements are pretty sparse, with the company reporting a net loss for the period from June 23 to August 31 of 1.2 million dirhams.  One US dollar is worth about 3.7 dirhams.  The Wall Street Journal's Asa Fitch gives a great overview of the Dubai markets in her report on Marka's IPO. Fitch writes: "The fast start to trading 'reflects the trust of the investors in the company' [the company's chairman said]...It also may reflect the general mood in the market. The DFM was one of the world’s worst-performing markets during the global financial crisis, but has recently seen its fortunes turn in dramatic fashion. The index more than doubled last year, and is up by a further 50% so far this year." But: "Many of the U.A.E.’s investors are individuals whose strategies involve little more than seeking quick gains based on technical charts and market rumors – speculators, basically," Fitch writes. And so while stocks in Dubai might be up broadly this year, the market also saw several huge sell-offs during the summer.  FREE AppDownload
Matthew Rutledge on FlickrMistakes made decades ago are hurting Sears' business today. The company is running out of cash after losing money for nine straight quarters.  For decades, Sears was ubiquitous.  But industry analyst Robin Lewis writes that Sears made a few crucial mistakes that ran business into the ground.  Sears' unraveling started back in the late 1970s and unfolded over three decades, according to Lewis. Here are the mistakes that led to business declining. By 1980, Sears had saturated the marketplace with stores in nearly every U.S. city. Instead of focusing on the quality of product in stores, the company began investing in ventures not directly related to retail. The company used profits from the retail business to invest in real estate, finance, and auto businesses.  "This did not have to be fatal; however, it actually starved those resources (capital and management ) from the retail business, leaving it unable to respond and adapt to the needs of the evolving consumer and marketplace," Lewis writes.  Yahoo! FinanceSears shares have fallen 57% in the past 5 years.  As Sears grew, the company created many different divisions. This was detrimental because it left Sears unable to react to changing consumer tastes.  Having too many managers is a frequent mistake in retail, Lewis writes.  "Sears’s culture became characterized by infighting and significant strategic redirects," Lewis says. "This cultural sclerosis is a disease that cripples many large, older companies in need of change for survival." Nicholas EckhartSears is in the process of closing 100 stores. Sears felt invincible, and didn't respond to competitors like Wal-Mart, TJ Maxx, and JCPenney, according to the book The New Rules Of Retail co-authored by Lewis and Michael Dart.  Between 1998 and 2010, the number of competitors within a 15-minute drive from any Sears grew from 1,400 to 4,300 stores, according to Lewis.  Sears could have fended off competitors by altering its strategy. Instead, the company became complacent, leading to a massive loss of market share.  Today, the department store "just doesn’t have the same resonance, it doesn’t have the same level of importance to people as it had 30 years ago," Matt McGinley, managing director at International Strategy &amp; Investment Group, told Bloomberg News. Morgan StanleySears and K-Mart still have a huge retail footprint, but the company is closing stores and hurting for cash.    FREE AppDownload
Markets are tanking today, and traders have various theories about why. But here's one thing that technical analysts and other fans of chart-reading will be interested in. Just a few days ago, the Russell 2000 (an index of small-cap stocks) made a "death cross." That's when the 50-day moving average (the average of the last 50 days of the index) fell below the 200-day moving average (the slower-moving average of the last 200 days of the index). Here's what it looked like. Stockcharts.com For purists, the definition of "death cross" is defined by Stockopedia as: "On a stock chart, the Death cross occurs when the 50-day MA falls below the 200-day MA. As the name implies, a Death Cross is associated with sharp downward price" Of course, there are other fundamental explanations for the selloff, including the recent rise in short-term interest rates. And Dave Lutz of JonesTrading cited these things that traders are talking about: FREE AppDownload
Vivien Killilea/Getty Images Howard Lindzon has made a lot of money trading for other people as a hedge fund manager. Now he's putting nearly $1 million dollars behind Robinhood, an app that lets people trade stocks whenever they want, with no commission fees. Lindzon told Business Insider that this is the largest ever contribution his early stage investment fund,  Social Leverage, has ever made. On Tuesday, Robinhood announced that Snoop Dogg, Jared Leto and Nas also invested in their $13 million Series A funding. Co-founder Baiju Bhatt says that fees are "the worst part of trading," in this Google hangout with Lindzon. Online brokerage firms charge up to $10 per trade. Robinhood is cheaper overall, but it will charge for trading stocks listed outside the US, wire transfers and a few other things.  "People have been like 'well you need millions of dollars to buy and sell stocks,'" Bhatt says in the video. "That sort of idea was thrown out of the window with online brokerages like E*trade and Fidelity, and today, we think that you don't even need thousands of dollars to trade stocks." Bhatt said he started working on the app in mid-2012. The app won't launch until early 2015 (that's the target) but Lindzon has been testing it, and he believes it will steal a swath of the market that online brokerage firms could get. “I think the customers that Robinhood will get at the beginning are younger, smaller accounts that are too hard for Schwab and E*trader to make money off anyway. They’ve neglected that market ... the ability to open a brokerage account in like 10 minutes is cheap, especially for a younger generation." He had a warning for the over 500,000 that are on the app's waitlist, and anyone else who thinks easy stock trading means easy money. “This is not for children. This is not meant to make the stock market easier … it doesn’t mean you’re suddenly going to make money because of trading. It’s just the idea that I can plug into this and I can execute a trade and I don’t have to click 50 buttons."  We'll let you know when Robinhood launches, so you can check it out. Other investors include Andreesen Horowitz and Google Ventures. Disclosure: Marc Andreessen, co-founder of Andreessen Horowitz, is an investor in Business Insider. FREE AppDownload
ReutersOn Monday Argentina must appear before Judge Thomas Griesa and explain why it has ignored a Court order to pay hedge fund creditors over $1.3 billion. If it fails, it will be ruled in contempt of Court and fined $50,000 a day. To a country, $50,000 should be a drop in the bucket — a blip on the radar screen. But Argentina is running out of cash, and dollar reserves are at a 4 month low of $23 billion. Inflation is high, investor confidence is low, a peso devaluation — like the one we saw in January — could be coming soon. Barclays estimates that at this current rate, the country might have $10 billion in the bank by this time next year. Barclays Most developed countries sweat $10 billion, so you can see how this little $50,000 a day thing could be a problem. Think of it as an annoying ATM fee while you're unemployed.  Argentina defaulted at the end of July after failing to pay a group of hedge fund creditors for sovereign debt they bought for pennies on the dollars after Argentina's last default in 2001.  For years the creditors insisted on being paid 100 cents on the dollar for their investment, but Argentina refused, insisting that they should take a haircut like over 95% of other investors. That fight went all the way up to the Supreme Court, and Argentina lost. In reality, even $1.3 billion should be a blip for an economy like Argentina's. In fact this whole hedge fund debacle is a side show. The real extravaganza is the race against time the country's economy is facing as commodities exports get crushed and the government seems paralyzed, without a save-the-day policy to speak of. "I would say by the end of the year, or the beginning of next year — that's the most they can have in terms of margin," Dr. Claudio Loser, founding member of Centennial Group Latin America, told Business Insider earlier this month. "Maybe sooner." All across Wall Street investors have been warned. Argentina is no place for money until President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner is out in 2015. The very adventurous can by on the cheap and hold out until then, when a more market friendly government takes power. Those with patience could be rewarded. Or they could not. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Luke MacGregorStocks are lower, and traders think some or all of these things could be why.Stocks are selling off. At the halfway point of Thursday's US trading session, the Dow was down 220 points, the S&amp;P 500 was down 26 points, and the Nasdaq was down 75 points. At a loss of 1.6%, the Nasdaq was logging the largest percentage losses. The small-cap Russell 2000 index was also lower, falling 16 points, or 1.4%.  Apple is among the big losers on Thursday, with shares of the iPhone maker down almost 3%. Dave Lutz of JonesTrading just circulated an email giving a quick overview of some things traders are looking at, writing that it seems like a "perfect storm of headlines — most them 'well known' — but the Holiday conditions accelerating fears." Via Lutz, here are eight things that traders are watching during Thursday's big sell-off: So there's that.  FREE AppDownload
Yahoo Finance Apple is down more than 3% this morning, taking shares to $98.11 as of this writing.  We're really not sure why the stock is dropping. There's no immediately obvious reason.  Apple has had some hiccups in the past couple of days — the iOS 8 update messed up people's phones, and the iPhone 6 Plus has been bending for some users.  Both of those seem like minor blips for Apple. The iOS 8 update is embarrassing, but Apple quickly addressed it. The bending issue feels like a nontroversy. A few people are claiming it happens.  The market overall is down, so it makes sense that Apple is also falling.  FREE AppDownload
If you've ever listened to yourself speak in a voicemail or video, you've probably wondered aloud "is that what I really sound like?" The unfortunate truth is: yes, that's what you really sound like. Find out why your voice sounds so different from what you hear in your head. Produced by Will Wei Follow BI VIDEO: On Facebook
Hedge fund research firm Preqin has released a graphic showing how the hedge fund industry has changed since the 2008 financial crisis.  In the years following the financial meltdown, there has been an uptick in the number of hedge funds that have launched despite an increase in industry regulation. There's also been an increase in industry assets under management in the last six years.  Post-crisis, hedge funds have been running money for even more institutional investors. What's more is 72% of the investors think hedge funds have "met or exceeded" expectations in the last six years compared to 62% pre-crisis. While that sounds great, it really hasn't been the best time for all hedge funds. Before the crisis, macro was the best performing strategy. Lately, it's been one of the worst performing, the graphic shows. Earlier this year, macro legend Paul Tudor Jones said  macro trading "has probably been as difficult as I have ever seen it in my career."  Here's the graphic:  Preqin FREE AppDownload
Mario Tama/Getty ImagesStocks are getting crushed. In afternoon trade on Thursday, the Dow was down 240 points, the S&amp;P 500 was down 27 points and the Nasdaq was down 77 points. The Nasdaq was logging the day's largest percentage losses, falling 1.7%, while the Dow and S&amp;P were down 1.4%. The drop in stocks on Thursday comes after Wednesday saw the market rally following three straight losing sessions. The tech-heavy Nasdaq is seeing the largest percentage losses with Apple down more than 2% as the iPhone maker deals with some fallout from its botched software update on Wednesday.  Yahoo shares are also down 2.3% as investors sort through the value of the company following the sale of some of its stake in Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba last week. Alibaba shares were also down 2.3% on Thursday. On Thursday morning we got three pieces of economic data, with initial jobless claims rising to 293,000 from 281,000 last week, though this was better than expected.  Durable goods orders fell by 18.2%, but this followed July's historic 22.6% increase, and excluding transportation, which was responsible for much of the rise in July, durable goods orders rose 0.7%.  Markit's services flash PMI came in at 58.5, which was worse than expected but still indicated strength in the US services sector.  In Fed speak, Dallas Fed president Richard Fisher said in comments made in Rome on Thursday that the Fed could raise rates "sooner rather than later." FREE AppDownload
Hubert Burda MediaScott Galloway at DLDBack in May, NYU business school professor Scott Galloway gave a presentation at a conference in New York called DLD. It was called “Zero or One: Winners &amp; Losers in a Digital Age.” A senior industry source who saw the presentation told us we absolutely had to track it down and share it with readers. It turns out we weren’t the only ones hot after “Zero or One.” On the phone yesterday, Galloway told us that of all the presentations and reports he’s ever put together for his consulting firm L2 (“Business Intelligence for Digital”), “Zero to One” has by far gotten the most attention. People like the report because it’s blunt. It calls out stinkers. Galloway told us he’s heard from about 50 hedge fund managers who wanted a copy. A few of them wanted to see which companies Galloway believes will be “winners" in the "digital age," so they could go long on them in trading. More of the hedge fund managers wanted to see which companies Galloway thinks are “losers” — so they could go short and bet against them. Galloway also heard from all of the “losers” he mentions in the report; each wanted to update him on their progress. It’s probably best to just dive into the presentation, but Galloway’s basic premise is this: Everyone thinks the “digital age” is a rising tide that will lift all boats. But really, it’s a shift in tides that favors a few super yachts and will leave everyone else stuck in the sand or worse. With this perspective, he examines the players in three arenas: Social media, retail, and the world economy.
The labor market is extremely complex and it's constantly evolving. There are two big themes we've seen in recent decades: 1) companies have increasingly outsourced tasks overseas and 2) companies have increasingly automated functions. These themes have been devastating for those at the middle-skill level. Wells Fargo Securities' Eugenio Aleman and Anika Khan recently published a paper that included a chart showing job growth by skills level from 2003 to 2013. It's jarring. Wells Fargo Securities As you can see, jobs have been expanding at the low and high-skill levels. Middle-skill jobs have actually contracted. "The decline in the share of middle-skill jobs has largely been driven by technological advancements and outsourcing of jobs overseas," Aleman and Khan explain. "Middle-skill jobs are classified as those that require some routine set of tasks, while high- and low-skill jobs perform non-routine tasks. Workers in routine professions have been increasingly displaced by the widespread use of computers." Someone has to make those computers. "With the increase in technology, the demand for high-skill workers continues to expand," the economists write. It may be counterintuitive that low-skill jobs aren't being replaced by robots. But the world just isn't that simple. "High-skill jobs are typically those that require some post-secondary education, while low- skill occupations, including food preparation and building and grounds maintenance require face- to-face interaction," they add. "These factors make these functions very difficult to outsource or automate." Among other things, this has implications for inequality. "Occupations that are high-skill are those that have an annual wage greater than $60,000," they note. "The top occupations in this category include management, computer and mathematical, legal, and architecture and engineering. Middle-skill occupations are jobs that bring home an annual median wage of $25,000 to $59,000, while low- skill occupations are jobs with an annual median wage of less than $25,000." FREE AppDownload
 MPI/Getty ImagesFor the past year, I have been worrying out loud about US stock valuations and suggesting that a decline of 40% to 50% would not be a surprise. I haven't predicted a drop like this, though I certainly think one is possible. I also haven't made a specific timing call: I have no idea what the market will do over the next year or two. But I do think it is highly likely that stocks will deliver way below-average returns for the next seven to 10 years. So far, the market has shrugged off these concerns: The S&amp;P 500 is up about 8% from last fall's 1,850 level. That's good for me, because I own stocks. But my concerns haven't changed. And I'm not expecting this performance to continue. I am feeling increasingly alone, however. Over the past year, one by one, most cautious pundits have capitulated and started arguing that valuations don't matter, that the US economic recovery is only just really getting started, and that stocks are going to keep going up for years. I hope so. But it's not just price that concerns me. There are three reasons I think future stock performance will be lousy: Below, I'll discuss those concerns one at a time. Before I do, though, a quick note: Sometimes people are confused by my still owning stocks while getting increasingly worried about a sharp price decline. If I think the market might drop, they ask, why don't I sell? Here's why I don't sell:  Yes, if stock prices decline 40% to 50% over the next couple of years, and then we enter a Japan-like scenario in which they continue to drop for two decades, I'll feel like an idiot. But otherwise, I'm OK with sharp price declines. I'm a long-term bull. And crashes create the opportunity to buy stocks with much higher likely future returns. Here's more on those three big concerns... In the past year or two, stocks have moved from being "expensive" to "very expensive." In fact, according to one historically valid measure, stocks are now more expensive than they have been at any time in the past 130 years with the exception of 1929 and 2000 (and we know what happened in those years).  The chart below is from Yale professor Robert Shiller. It shows the cyclically adjusted price-earnings ratio of the S&amp;P 500 for the past 130 years. As you can see, today's PE ratio of 26X is miles above the long-term average of 15X. In fact, it's higher than at any point in the 20th century with the exception of the months that preceded the two biggest stock-market crashes in history. Robert Shiller Does a high PE mean the market is going to crash? No. Sometimes, as in 2000, the PE just keeps getting higher for a while. But, eventually, gravity takes hold. And in the past, without exception, a PE as high as today's has foreshadowed lousy returns for the next seven to 10 years. But is it "different this time?" Now, it's possible that it's "different this time." The words "it's different this time" aren't always the most expensive words in the English language. Sometimes things do change, and investors clinging to old measures that are no longer valid miss decades of market gains before they realize their mistake.  One example of this is the famous bond yield / stock yield inversion in the 1950s. For decades, stock yields had been higher than bond yields. This seemed to make sense: Stocks were more risky than bonds, so of course they should have higher yields. But then stock prices rose so much that stock yields dropped below bond yields. This caused many panicked investors to rush to the sidelines. Alas, stock yields stayed below bond yields for half a century. And the bears got clobbered by inflation and missed decades of gains. Why did the stock yield / bond yield relationship no longer work? Because the US had gone off the gold standard. For the first time in the country's history, inflation became the norm. And inflation clobbers the value of bonds. That fundamental change was obvious in hindsight. But it wasn't obvious at the time. So is it possible that it's different this time, too, that Professor Shiller's PE ratio is no longer valid? Yes, it's possible. A smart market analyst, the anonymous financial blogger "Jesse Livermore," analyzed Professor Shiller's PE last year and made a compelling argument that it's no longer valid because accounting rules have changed. Livermore makes a persuasive point. It certainly seems possible that the future average of Professor Shiller's PE ratio will be significantly higher than it has been in the past 130 years. But it would take a major change indeed for the average PE ratio to shift upward by, say, 50%. So, yes, it's possible that it's a bit different this time. But I doubt it's entirely different. While we're at it, please note something else in the chart above. Please note that, sometimes — as in the entire first 70 years of the past century — PEs (blue line) can be low even when interest rates (red line) are low. That's worth noting, because today you often hear bulls say that today's high PEs are justified by today's low interest rates. Even if this were true — even if history did not clearly show that you could have low PEs with low rates — this argument would not protect you from future losses, because today's low rates could eventually regress upward to normal. But it's also just not true that low rates always mean high PEs. And in case some of your bullish friends have convinced you that Professor Shiller's P/E analysis is otherwise flawed, check out the chart below. It's from fund manager John Hussman. It shows six valuation measures in addition to the Shiller PE that have been highly predictive of future returns. The left scale shows the predicted 10-year return for stocks according to each valuation measure. The colored lines (except green) show the predicted return for each measure at any given time. The green line is the actual return over the 10 years from that point (it ends 10 years ago). Today, the average expected return for the next 10 years is slightly positive — just under 2% a year. That's not horrible. But it's a far cry from the 10% long-term average. John Hussman, Hussman Funds And, lastly, lest you're tempted to dismiss both Shiller and Hussman as party-pooping idiots, here's one more chart. This one's from James Montier at GMO. Montier, one of Wall Street's smartest strategists, is also very concerned about today's valuations. He does not think it's "different this time." Montier's chart shows that another of the common arguments used to debunk Professor Shiller's PE chart is bogus. Bulls often say that Professor Shiller's PE is flawed because it includes the crappy earnings year during the financial crisis. Montier shows that this criticism is misplaced. Even when you include 2009 earnings (purple), Montier observes, 10-year average corporate earnings (blue) are well above trend (orange). This suggests that, far from overstating how expensive stocks are, Prof. Shiller's chart might be understating it. Jamies Montier, GMO In short, Montier thinks that all the arguments you hear about why today's stock prices are actually cheap are just the same kinds of bogus arguments you always hear in the years leading up to market peaks: Seemingly sophisticated attempts to justify more buying by those who have a vested interest in more buying. So, go ahead and tell yourself that stocks aren't expensive. But be aware of what you're likely doing. What you're likely doing is what others who persuaded themselves to buy stocks near previous market peaks (as I did in 2000) were doing: Saying, "it's different this time." That's price. Next comes profit margins. One reason many investors think stocks are reasonably priced is that they are comparing today's stock prices to this year's earnings and next year's expected earnings. In some years, when profit margins are normal, this valuation measure is meaningful. In other years, however — at the peak or trough of the business cycle — comparing prices to one year's earnings can produce a very misleading sense of value. Profit margins tend to be "mean-reverting," meaning that they go through periods of being above or below average but eventually — sometimes violently — regress toward the mean. As a result, it is dangerous to conclude that one year of earnings is a fair measure of long-term "earning power." If you look at a year of high earnings and conclude these high earnings will go on forever, for example, you can get clobbered. (It works the other way, too. In years with depressed earnings, stocks can look artificially expensive. That's one reason a lot of investors missed the buying opportunity during the financial crisis. Measured on 2009's clobbered earnings, stocks looked expensive. But they weren't. They were actually undervalued.) Have a glance at this recent chart of profits as a percent of the economy. Today's profit margins are the highest in history, by a mile. Note that, in every previous instance in which profit margins have reached extreme levels like today's — high and low — they have subsequently reverted to (or beyond) the mean. And when profit margins have reverted, so have stock prices. Business Insider, St. Louis FedAfter-tax profits as a percent of GDP. Now, again, you can tell yourself stories about why, this time, profit margins have reached a "permanently high plateau," as a famous economist remarked about stock prices just before the crash in 1929. And, unlike that economist, you might be right. But as you are telling yourself these stories, please recognize that what you are really saying is "It's different this time."  For the past five years, the Fed has been frantically pumping more and more money into Wall Street, keeping interest rates low to encourage hedge funds and other investors to borrow and speculate. This free money, and the resulting speculation, has helped drive stocks to their current very expensive levels. But now the Fed is starting to "take away the punch bowl," as Wall Street is fond of saying. Specifically, the Fed is beginning to reduce the amount of money that it is pumping into Wall Street. To be sure, for now, the Fed is still pumping oceans of money into Wall Street. And if you limit your definition of "tightening" to "raising interest rates," the Fed is not yet tightening. Yet. But, in the past, it has been the change in direction of Fed money-pumping that has been important to the stock market, not the absolute level.  In the past, major changes in direction of Fed money-pumping have often been followed by changes in direction of stock prices. Not immediately. And not always. But often. Let's go to the history ... Here's a look at the past 50 years. The blue line is the Fed Funds rate (a proxy for the level of Fed money-pumping.) The red line is the S&amp;P 500. We'll zoom in on specific periods in a moment. Just note that Fed policy goes through "tightening" and "easing" phases, just as stocks go through bull and bear markets. And sometimes these phases are correlated. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed Now, lets zoom in. In many of these time periods, you'll see that sustained Fed tightening has often been followed by a decline in stock prices. Again, not immediately, and not always, but often. You'll also see that most major declines in stock prices over this period have been preceded by Fed tightening.  Here's the first period, 1964 to 1980. There were three big tightening phases during this period (blue line) ... and three big stock drops (red line). Good correlation! Business Insider, St. Louis Fed Now 1975 to 1982. The Fed started tightening in 1976, at which point the market declined and then flattened for four years. Steeper tightening cycles in 1979 and 1980 were also followed by price drops. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed From 1978 to 1990, we see the two drawdowns described above, as well as another tightening cycle followed by flattening stock prices in the late 1980s. Again, tightening precedes crashes. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed And, lastly, 1990 to 2014. For those who want to believe that Fed tightening is irrelevant, there's good news here: A sharp tightening cycle in the mid-1990s did not lead to a crash! Alas, two other tightening cycles, one in 1999 to 2000 and the other from 2004 to 2007 were followed by major stock market crashes. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed One of the oldest sayings on Wall Street is "Don't fight the Fed." This saying has meaning in both directions, when the Fed is easing and when it is tightening. A glance at these charts shows why. On the positive side, the Fed's tightening phases have often lasted a year or two before stock prices peaked and began to drop. So even if you're convinced that sustained Fed tightening is now likely to lead to a sharp stock-price pullback at some point, the bull market might still have a ways to run. I'm still nervous about stock prices and think stocks are likely to deliver lousy returns over the next seven to 10 years. I also would not be surprised to see the stock market drop sharply from this level, perhaps as much as 30% to 50% over a couple of years. None of this means for sure that the market will crash or that you should sell stocks (Again — I own stocks, and I'm not selling them.) It does mean, however, that you should be mentally prepared for the possibility of a major pullback and lousy long-term returns. SEE ALSO: Anyone Who Thinks Stocks Will Go Up If The Economy Grows Should Read This Buffett Quote  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Marcos BrindicciArgentina's President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner gestures next to Argentina's Economy Minister Axel Kicillof (L)With Argentina's private sector in disarray, Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner's government has been forced to increasingly bail out failing businesses, particularly importers that are critical to Argentina's stability. The nation's fiscal problems are escalating rapidly as it undertakes what amounts to a form of nationalization. Goldman Sachs A great deal of hard currency now goes to support domestic importers (that are forced to sell at a loss to keep prices under control) and the country is becoming desperate for dollars needed to import the products the population needs. In the past, some of the greatest sources of foreign currency for Argentina have been grain exports, particularly soy. Except now there is a problem ... Barchart With fiscal deficit growing rapidly and access to international markets shut off due to the recent default, Argentina's central bank has been doing the only thing a central bank can do in this situation - monetize the deficit by printing more pesos. This has resulted in inflation levels of over 36% this summer and probably even higher currently. Not quite Zimbabwe levels yet, but moving in that direction.  In response to such inflationary pressures and fully aware that further currency devaluation by the Fernandez regime is inevitable, businesses and households are hoarding dollars. One US dollar now trades at over 15 pesos in the unofficial ("blue") exchange market - some 80% premium to the official exchange rate. Dolar BlueThere are no easy answers at this juncture. With foreign reserves expected to dwindle and risks rising of foreign bondholders accelerating full debt repayment - which they can do now that they are no longer receiving their coupon payments - Argentina is running out of options. The authorities are becoming increasingly desperate as Fernandez, in search of someone to blame other than her own failed policies, turns on Argentina's private sector. New legislation that resembles Venezuela's heavy handed socialist style has now made strong corporate profit margins in Argentina illegal. The Washington Post: - One of South America's largest countries has passed new measures to cap consumer prices of goods, set profit margins for private businesses and levy fines on companies found to be making "artificial or unjustified" profits. If that sounds like something they would do in Venezuela, well, that's because they already have. Now it's Argentina that wants to use the heavy hand of the state to grip the invisible hand of the market. Earlier this year hopes were rising for a better future in the post-Fernandez Argentina (see post). Those hopes have now been dashed. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucy NicholsonMarkit's flash US services PMI came in at 58.5. Expectations were for the reading to come in at 59.2, down slightly from last month's 59.5 reading. The latest report from Markit said, "A further strong increase in business activity reflected steep and accelerated growth of incoming new work in September. The latest rise in new business volumes was the sharpest since June and one of the fastest seen over the five-year survey history." This report follows Markit's flash manufacturing PMI earlier this week, which showed manufacturing activity in the US remains strong. This chart from Markit shows the trend in services PMI over the last five years. Markit More to come... FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ Lucas JacksonThe famed author Michael Lewis is criticizing Wall Street culture again. This time, instead of talking about a specific firm as he did in his iconic book "Liar's Poker," he has listed several "occupational hazards" of working on the Street in a Bloomberg View column. In it, he accuses Wall Streeters of being charlatans who pretend to know more than they do. He also says they're incapable of making deep attachments and don't challenge or question existing arrangements. Everyone in the finance business — "at least at first" — will feel the necessity to pretend to know more than he does, Lewis says, but ultimately, Wall Street is basically pretending to know the unknowable. The business, he muses, requires more luck than skill. "Much of what Wall Street sells is less like engineering than like a forecasting service for a coin-flipping contest — except that no one mistakes a coin-flipping contest for a game of skill," he writes. Ouch. He goes on to say that financiers will "find it surprisingly hard" to form "deep attachments" to anyone and anything greater than himself. "The primary relationship of most people in big finance is not to their employer but to their market." He writes that "people who work inside the big Wall Street firms have no serious stake in the long-term fates of their firms. If the place blows up, they can always do what they are doing at some other firm — so long as they have maintained their stature in their market." Maintaining stature, in fact, ends up being everything. "One of our financial sector’s most striking traits is how fiercely it resists useful, disruptive entrepreneurship that routinely upends other sectors of our economy ... The intense pressure to conform, to not make waves, has got to be the most depressing part of all, for a genuinely ambitious young person. It’s pretty clear that the government lacks the power to force serious change upon the financial sector," he adds. All these problems, however, don't mean that Wall Street is going anywhere. It offers two things, Lewis says, that Silicon Valley can't — the ability to succeed without having original ideas and the ability to "offer the sort of people who wind up at elite universities what a lot of them obviously crave: status certainty." "'I'm going to Goldman,' is still about as close as it gets in the real world to 'I'm going to Harvard,'" he writes. Read the whole takedown at Bloomberg&gt; FREE AppDownload
AP PhotoJPMorgan &lt;jpm.n&gt; was the top-performing investment bank in the first half of the year, making $11.5 billion in revenue and ranking first for both its fixed income and deals advisory businesses, data showed on Thursday. The US bank ranked ahead of Goldman Sachs &lt;gs.n&gt; and Deutsche Bank &lt;dbkgn.de&gt;, who shared second place, according to industry analytics firm Coalition. They were followed by Bank of America Merrill Lynch &lt;bac.n&gt; and Citi &lt;c.n&gt;, then Morgan Stanley &lt;ms.n&gt; in sixth, Credit Suisse &lt;csgn.vx&gt; seventh, Barclays &lt;barc.l&gt; eighth, UBS &lt;ubsn.vx&gt; ninth, and then BNP Paribas &lt;bnpp.pa&gt;. The result, which is closely watched by the industry, puts JPMorgan on track to keep its top slot in the full-year league tables. It has ranked first since Coalition began publishing its rankings in 2010. JPMorgan was joined by Deutsche Bank and Citi in first place in fixed income, currencies, and commodities (FICC). The three banks each brought in about $5.9 billion in revenue from that business in the six months to end-June. That compares with $7.6 billion made by JPMorgan last year, when it was also the top bank in FICC, and reflects the structural and cyclical pressures that have dogged FICC divisions in recent years. FICC trading has been steadily falling since the 2008 crisis, partly because of a collapse in interest rates across the developed world that has crushed volatility. New rules forcing banks to hold more capital against the business have also driven down returns. Coalition expects that full year FICC revenue at the top 10 investment banks globally will fall 9 percent this year to $67.4 billion. But the outlook could improve as the prospect of interest rate increases in the United States and political tensions have caused volatility levels to edge higher. In an earlier report, Coalition said it expected full-year revenues at the world's top 10 investment banks to fall 2 percent year-on-year to $150.7 billion. In equities, Morgan Stanley came first for a second year running, having earned $2.8 billion in revenue in the first half. JPMorgan and Goldman, who had held the top spot with Morgan Stanley last year, were joint second. Goldman moved up one place to lead the rankings of banks' investment banking divisions, whose staff advise on deals, alongside JPMorgan and Bank of America. The three each made revenue of about $3 billion in the period.     (Reporting by Clare Hutchison. Editing by Jane Merriman) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brian SnyderRichard FisherROME (Reuters) - The U.S. Federal Reserve may start raising rates around the spring of 2015, at the earlier end of market expectations, Richard Fisher, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas said on Thursday. "It's assumed in the market place that we'll start our liftoff in raising interest rates some time between the spring and the summer," Fisher, a member of the Federal open Market Committee, the Fed's main policy making body said at a conference in Rome. "I won't say what we're saying internally, that would not be appropriate, but maybe sooner rather than later," he said. Financial markets will eventually test European Central Bank President Mario Draghi's commitment to do "whatever it takes" to protect the euro, Fisher said. "There used to be a saying, 'Don't fight the Fed'. Well now it's 'Don't fight Draghi' and the question is will markets test that," Fisher, a member of the Federal Open Market Committee, the Fed's main policy making body, said at a conference in Rome.    "I've always assumed that markets will test the Fed or the ECB and you can't just assume it will go on forever," he said.     Referring to the United States, Fisher also said that ultra-accommodative monetary policy had fueled a boom on financial markets that risked creating bubbles in some areas. "We're beginning to see extreme risk taking in the junk bond markets," he said. (Reporting by Gavin Jones and James Mackenzie) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Will BurgessDurable good orders 18.2% in August, a record decline but in-line with expectations after July's historic increase. Expectations were for orders to fall 18% in August, a sharp reversal after July's record 22.6% increase in orders. July's 22.6% surge was largely related to a massive increase in aircraft orders.  Excluding transportation, durable good orders rose 0.7% in August, up from a -0.8% decline in July.  Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro expected that excluding transportation, durable good orders would rise 0.5% month-on-month. In a note to clients following Thursday's report, Shepherdson wrote, "In one line: Ignore the Boeing-shredded headline; core is solid... The headline plunge reflects the return to more normal orders numbers for Boeing after their massive July jump... What matters is the trend, and orders in the three months to August rose at a huge 17.2% annualized rate compared to the previous three months, and the y/y rate is 7.5%. We still have to be cautious about corporate capex, given sluggish earnings growth, but these numbers are hugely encouraging." FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Alan DiazInitial jobless claims rose to 293,000. Expectations were for claims to rise to 296,000, up from 280,000 last week. Last week's report was the lowest reading in 14 years when excluding the week of automaker shutdowns in July. Last week's report was also revised up slightly, to 281,000 from 280,000. The four-week moving average of initial claims fell slightly from last week to 298,500.  This chart from Calculated Risk shows the four-week moving average of initial claims, which is back near pre-financial crisis levels. Calculated Risk FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Alexei NikolskyiRussia's President Vladimir Putin visits a Rosneft refinery in the Black Sea town of Tuapse in southern Russia October 11, 2013.LONDON (Reuters) - Rosneft &lt;ROSN.MM&gt;, Russia's biggest crude oil producer, may back out of a deal to buy Morgan Stanley's oil trading unit because Western sanctions make it virtually impossible to finance day-to-day operations, three sources close to the state-controlled company said. The people said the chances of the deal going through range from "possible" to "highly unlikely." A spokesman for Rosneft said that "the work over the deal is still ongoing." The business in question trades actual barrels of oil instead of just contracts linked to the price of crude. Morgan Stanley is under U.S. pressure to sell the unit because regulators regard physical oil trading as too risky for a major bank to own because unpredictable events like oil tanker leaks could expose it to billions of dollars in liability. A spokesman for Morgan Stanley declined to comment. Ruth Porat, the bank's chief financial officer, said in July she expected the deal to close later this year. Rosneft declined official comment. Rosneft agreed to buy the unit in December. Since then, the United States and the European Union have imposed wide-ranging sanctions on Russia's energy and military sectors to punish Moscow for its incursion into Ukraine. APPutin with Igor Sechin (right)Rosneft's chief Igor Sechin, a close ally of Russian President Vladimir Putin, has been on the U.S. sanctions list since April. Rosneft itself was added to the list in July. Rosneft has enough cash to buy the Morgan Stanley unit, which sources said carries a price tag of between $300 million to $400 million. But to operate day-to-day, the business requires billions of dollars of bank lines of credit, funding that is difficult to secure given the sanctions. Reuters could not learn the precise size of these credit lines, but trading houses that compete with Morgan Stanley such as Vitol, Mercuria and Trafigura each have $30 billion to $40 billion worth of credit lines with dozens of banks. "This deal just cannot go through. It is not an issue of finding $300 million to buy the business. Rosneft has the money. But it won't be able to operate it," one Russian-based source with direct knowledge of the matter said. One remaining obstacle for the deal is approval from the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, a regulatory group that vets mergers and acquisitions that may affect U.S. security. CFIUS has asked Rosneft and Morgan Stanley for more information about the deal, without approving or rejecting it, a step that lawyers said is not unusual for a transaction under review. One Rosneft source said talks with CFIUS continued: "The U.S. bureaucracy has simply asked for more information. We are still in the game." Others were less sure. A Western banking source who works with Rosneft said the company believes it could not do much with the assets of a U.S.-regulated bank - even if it was allowed to buy them - because of sanctions. In August, Rosneft applied for a $42 billion loan from a state wealth fund to help it weather sanctions. Last week, a Russian deputy prime minister said the government is considering the applications. For now, Rosneft, which generates $30 billion in cash flow a year, is meeting its financing needs from internal resources. It can also borrow from China, which has made available billions of dollars of credit lines to Russia. Morgan Stanley has been trying to sell its oil trading division for almost two years. Previous attempts to sell to buyers in the Middle East and Asia failed due to price and operational differences, according to market sources. The failure to sell the unit may benefit the bank because revenue in commodity trading businesses has been rising this year as markets have gyrated.    Sources told Reuters in July that after more than a year of scaling back, Morgan Stanley has started expanding its commodity division again with plans to hire traders, sales staff and other professionals in the United States. (Reporting by Dmitry Zhdannikov in London, additional reporting by Lauren LaCapra in New York, editing by Dan Wilchins and John Pickering) FREE AppDownload
PayPal cofounder and billionaire investor Peter Thiel has a new book "Zero to One: Notes on Startups or How to Build the Future," but he also gave us insight into a company that could just be the next big thing. Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Thomson ReutersA huge euro logo is pictured past next to headquarters of ECB in FrankfurtBy Eva Taylor FRANKFURT (Reuters) - Lending to euro zone households and companies contracted for the 28th month in a row in August, though at a slower pace, putting a keener spotlight on European Central Bank efforts to get credit flowing again. Euro zone banks, particularly in the crisis-stricken countries, have tightened up on lending as they adapt to tougher capital requirements and undergo health checks, while companies are holding back on investments, unsure of the future. The euro zone economy ground to a halt in the second quarter and with inflation in what ECB President Mario Draghi has called the "danger zone" below 1 percent for almost a year now, the ECB saw the need to add new stimulus steps in June and September. The ECB has now started to offer banks four-year loans at ultra-cheap rates and plans to buy asset-backed securities and covered bonds from October to lighten the weight on banks' balance sheets and entice them to lend. But economists in a Reuters poll are skeptical about whether the plan will work, saying bank lending to private euro zone businesses needed to grow at a 3-percent annual rate on a sustained basis to stir inflation. August lending rates are nowhere near such levels. In August, loans to the private sector continued to fall, down 1.5 percent from the same month a year earlier after a contraction of 1.6 percent in July, ECB data showed on Thursday. Private sector loans have not grown since April 2012. "It remains questionable as to how much all the liquidity measures announced by the ECB will encourage banks to lift their lending," IHS Global Insight economist Howard Archer said. "...it is also questionable how much businesses' demand for credit will pick up while the economic and political outlook looks so uncertain," he said.  WEAK LENDING IN IRELAND Draghi told Lithuanian business daily Verslo Zinios in an interview published on Thursday a continued weakness in credit growth was likely to curb the euro zone recovery. Euro zone companies rely mainly on bank funding rather than capital markets, which is why it is so crucial to fix lingering problems in the sector. For that purpose, the ECB is putting the bloc's top banks through a thorough review of their balance sheets to weed out bad loans, update collateral valuations and adjust capital. The picture varies across the euro zone. While lending to companies in Ireland fell at an annual rate of 11.8 percent in August - the fastest decline in three years - and 8.8 percent in Spain, it rose in Finland, Germany and France. Euro zone M3 money supply - a more general measure of cash in the economy - grew at an annual pace of 2.0 percent in August, up from 1.8 percent in July.  (Editing by Louise Ireland/Ruth Pitchford) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/David MdzinarishviliUkrainian servicemen at a checkpoint near the town of Horlivka in eastern Ukraine on Sept. 18.Good morning! Here's what you need to know: The Euro Is At Its Lowest Against The Dollar Since 2012. The euro has now broken well below $1.28, and with the ECB expected to keep easing while the Fed starts to consider a rate hike, we probably haven’t seen the last of this decline. Commodity Prices Are Slumping, Too. A lot of commodities are hovering at a four-year low, and market-watcher Mark Dow provides one theory why that's happening. Lufthansa Pilots Are Threatening To Strike. The German airline’s pilots say talks over retirement rights have broken down, and they may follow Air France’s pilots and go on strike.  China Might Boot Its Central Bank Chief. There’s no end to the rumors that Zhou Xiaochuan may be replaced as the head of the People’s Bank of China.  Glaxo Just Appointed A New Chairman. GlaxoSmithKline has hired Philip Hampton, the chairman of Royal Bank of Scotland. He doesn’t take up the role until September next year.  The US Is Bombing ISIS Oil Fields. The strikes have now spread to ISIS’ attempts to refine and sell oil. The Netherlands is the latest country to join the fight against the group in Syria and northern Iraq.  The Nikkei Got A Big Boost. The Japanese index closed up 1.28% overnight, after some speculation that a new boss at the People’s Bank of China would mean more easing. European stocks were mixed Thursday morning, with the FTSE 100 down 0.18%, the CAC 40 up 0.22%, and the DAX up 0.32%. Rosneft May Back Out Of A Deal With Morgan Stanley. The massive Russian crude oil producer may back out of an agreement to buy Morgan Stanley’s oil trading unit because sanctions now make it hard to finance.  Initial Jobless Numbers Are Out At 8:30 AM ET. Claims for the week of Sept. 19 will be released, while Markit’s services PMI is out at 8:45 a.m. The Kansas Fed’s manufacturing survey follows at 11 a.m. Ukraine May Temporarily Close Border With Russia. Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko says he’s considering closing the border with Russia to stem Moscow’s military intervention in his country. FREE AppDownload
Henry Romero/ReutersA refinery worker carts out debris from an underground water tunnel being constructed at the site of the future Tula Bicentenario refinery, in Tula November 21, 2013Mexico overcame 75 years of nationalist pride to reform its flagging, state-owned oil industry. But as it prepares to develop rich shale fields along the Gulf Coast, and attract foreign investors, another challenge awaits: taming the brutal drug cartels that rule the region and are stealing billions of dollars' worth of oil from pipelines. Figures released by Petroleos Mexicanos last week show the gangs are becoming more prolific and sophisticated. So far this year, thieves across Mexico have drilled 2,481 illegal taps into state-owned pipelines, up more than one-third from the same period of 2013. Pemex estimates it's lost some 7.5 million barrels worth $1.15 billion. Pemex director Emilio Lozoya called the trend "worrisome." More than a fifth of the illegal taps occurred in Tamaulipas, the Gulf state neighboring Texas that is a cornerstone for Mexico's future oil plans. It has Mexico's largest fields of recoverable shale gas, the natural gas extracted by fracturing rock layers, or fracking. Mexico, overall, is believed to have the world's sixth-largest reserves of shale gas — equivalent to 60 billion barrels of crude oil. That's more than twice the total amount of oil that Mexico has produced by conventional means over the last century. The energy reform passed in December loosened Mexico's protectionist policies, opening the way for Pemex to seek foreign investors and expertise to help it exploit its shale fields. It hopes to draw $10 billion to $15 billion in private investment each year. The attractiveness of the venture may hinge on bringing Tamaulipas under control. "The energy reform won't be viable if we aren't successful ... in solving the problem of crime and impunity," said Sen. David Penchyna, who heads the Senate Energy Commission. "The biggest challenge we Mexicans have, and I say it without shame, is Tamaulipas."Two rival gangs, the Zetas and the Gulf cartel, long have used Tamaulipas as a route to ferry drugs and migrants to the United States and, in recent years, diversified their business: stealing gas and crude and selling it to refineries in Texas or to gas stations on either side of the border. Geo-MexicoAt least twice a day, the gangs pull up to one of the hundreds of pipelines that crisscross the state. Workers quickly shovel down a couple of yards (meters) to uncover a pipeline and siphon their booty into a stolen tanker truck, said army Col. Juan Carlos Guzman, whose troops have raided a number of such illegal taps. A dirt farm road led down to one site outside Ciudad Victoria, 180 miles southwest of McAllen, Texas. About a half-mile from a nearby highway, thieves had dug out a pit and inserted a large needle-like device into the pipeline. By the time soldiers arrived, the gang members had fled, and only the driver of the half-loaded gasoline truck was arrested. The knowledge needed to tap into the pressurized pipelines leads authorities to suspect the gangs have infiltrated Pemex or co-opted company workers. "It is impossible to do this without information on the timing and level of flows," said Marco Antonio Bernal, a federal congressman from Tamaulipas who is drafting legislation to toughen punishment for pipeline thefts. The suspicions were reinforced earlier this month when detectives nabbed a Gulf cartel leader who was found carrying a fake Pemex employee credential, complete with his photo and a false name. Pemex is installing more automated pipeline shut-off valves operated remotely from a control room in Mexico City. Such controls allow them to not only stop spills often caused by illegal taps but to avoid having to send workers out to unpopulated, dangerous areas to turn off valves manually. With thousands of miles of pipeline stretching over far-flung regions of Tamaulipas, stopping oil theft is proving hard to do. Mexico has taken steps to rein in the cartels, putting military leaders in charge of the state's security and sending in soldiers, marines and federal police to patrol key cities. Arrests and violence have taken out so many key Zetas leaders that the cartel's members have taken to camping out in the bush, dragooning Central American migrants into their ranks. They live off the land and change campsites constantly to avoid detection. Henry Romero/ReutersExcess natural gas is being flared, or burnt off, at a flare stack at the refinery in Tula November 21, 2013. "They don't have structures. They sleep under the trees, near rivers to get water," said Gen. Mario Lopez Miguez, who commands nearly 600 soldiers at a base in the once cartel-dominated town of Ciudad Mier. The Gulf cartel, for its part, remains in control of Tamaulipas' largest city, Reynosa, which sits across from McAllen, although the military has increased its patrols, making some residents feel safer. "The situation has gotten a lot better," said Nora Gonzalez, who runs a secondhand furniture shop near downtown Reynosa. Still, just a few blocks away, Reynosa remains dangerous. A reporter asking residents about the crime situation was quickly approached by a young man driving a battered car with no license plates. "Where are you from? What are you doing here? Identify yourself," said the young man, using language similar to that of drug cartel lookouts, known as "halcones," or falcons. "How much money are you carrying? Pull over," the man demanded, as the reporter opted to drive away. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
The dollar is the hottest currency in the world, and it's booming again. Major counterparts are all getting slammed. Here's the aussie dollar, sliding against the US dollar all night. FinViz  And here's the dollar gaining ground against the yen. FinViz The main story here is that the US is seen as heading into a tightening cycle, while other countries are still easing more, and so the relatively higher interest rates in the US benefit the US dollar. Anyway, it's the big story of the year, and it's showing no letup. Meanwhile, one of the big losers of the day is the New Zealand dollar, following comments from the New Zealand central bank chief that the currency was overvalued. FREE AppDownload
U.S. Air ForceAn F-35 Lightning II completes a series of night flights, testing the ability to fly the jet safely in instrument meteorological conditions in which the pilot has no external visibility references.Lockheed Martin expects the cost of the F-35 fighter jet to drop to its target level by 2019 and still sees the first version of the aircraft combat-ready by mid-2015, despite an engine fire that still needs a fix, the firm said on Thursday. The F-35 is the most expensive weapons system ever built. A decision by South Korea on Wednesday to order 40 F-35s for about $7 billion further lowers the program's cost, and Lockheed sees the per-unit cost down to $80 million to $85 million by 2019 from the current rate of about $115 million, Jeff Babione, Lockheed's deputy general manager for the F-35 program, told reporters in Oslo. Lockheed, engine maker Pratt &amp; Whitney, a unit of United Technologies Corp, and other suppliers are investing heavily to drive down the program's projected $400 billion cost, making it more affordable for cash-strapped governments looking to buy over 3,100 aircraft over the next decades. Flickr/US Air ForceU.S. Air Force Tech. Sgt. Brian West watches an Air Force F-35 Lightning II joist strike fighter aircraft approach for the first time July 14, 2011, at Eglin Air Force Base, Fla."The cost reduction will come with the increase in orders," Babione told Reuters on the sidelines of a news conference. "We anticipate that there's a market out there for 4,000 airplanes ... and the biggest risk to cost is if we don't get the orders we showed. That will significantly erode our ability to take advantage of economic order quantities and reduce cost." The F-35 program was set back earlier this year when the Pentagon grounded its entire fleet after a June 23 fire on an Air Force F-35A jet, an all-new aircraft with advanced stealth capabilities, improved maneuverability, and advanced sensors. Lockheed is still investigating the issue and expects to determine the root cause this month or early October, and it sees a fix implemented on aircraft already in service in early 2015, said Chris Flynn, a Pratt &amp; Whitney vice-president for the F-35 engine program. "We understand what fundamentally happened ... and we have tremendous confidences in the timeline," Flynn said. "We think it's a fairly straightforward fix." Though no longer grounded, the fleet of over 100 F-35s already delivered flies under restrictions, pending the engine fix. Lockheed added it was also confident that the U.S. Marine Corps would declare the first version of the jet combat-ready by mid-2015 and said that beside the engine issue, the integration of the communication systems and the subtle changes to flight controls were its main issues. (Editing by Mark Potter) FREE AppDownload
Sports Direct’s billionaire founder is betting on a Tesco recovery. Eccentric plutocrat Mike Ashley took a big punt on the recovery of floundering retailer Tesco this morning, entering into a put option with Goldman Sachs. Sports Direct exposed to the tune of £43 million ($70.15 million) if it's wrong.  That’s just 0.28% of Tesco’s share capital, highlighting the colossal size of the business. Accendo Markets head of research Mike van Dulken gives a succinct explanation of the put option Sports Direct has entered into: "The contract has seen him, in return for a premium, write/sell a contract giving investment bank Goldman Sachs the right to sell him (oblige him to buy) Tesco shares at an agreed price in the future and is essentially him placing a bullish bet on the Tesco share price recovering from its recent 11-year lows. If the shares are trading above the agreed price on the contract’s expiry Ashley pockets the difference but if they are below he will have to pay out the difference."  Effectively, Ashley — an incredibly private executive who never gives interviews and uses a plastic bag instead of a briefcase — is betting this is the bottom, or close enough, for the world’s second biggest retailer. That’s on the morning that Sky News revealed that  CFO Laurie McIlwee hasn’t been involved in the running of the company since April, during which time its £250 million accounting blunder was made. Just yesterday ratings agency Moody's put Tesco on review for a downgrade too.  Tesco shares still aren’t enjoying any relief. They’re flat this morning, down at £1.9485, down by nearly a quarter in the last month, and 48% lower than their level a year ago.  Ashley is probably best know for his controversial ownership of Newcastle United, during which time he renamed the club's iconic St James' Park "Sports Direct Arena," and was spotted drinking with fans in local pubs before matches. The naming decision which was later reversed. FREE AppDownload
The euro is down 0.3% Thursday morning, breaking into territory last seen in November 2012. At the time of writing, it’s sitting at $1.2738. The single currency is down more than 8% since May this year. BloombergThe euro has been dropping against the dollar since a recent high in May. The euro has been dropping since spring, during which time the ECB has cut interest rates twice, and announced a new cheap credit scheme for banks. It’s not clear yet whether Mario Draghi will push for full-blown QE, but markets now know the ECB is only likely to ease further.  In an email Thursday morning, Stefan Koopman and Philip Marey at Rabobank noted that Draghi told French radio on Wednesday that “exchange rate movement reflects the different path of monetary policies.” In short, the ECB boss knows that the Fed is likely to raise interest rates at some point in the middle future, increasing the dollar's strength.  Translation? Expect more of this in the future.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThai Airways plane prepares to land at Bangkok's Suvarnabhumi AirportBy Jessica Jaganathan SINGAPORE (Reuters) - Airlines in Asia are stepping up jet fuel hedge volumes after oil prices fell below $100 a barrel this month, with some locking in fuel purchases as far out as 2016, suggesting airlines see oil prices bottoming. Airlines have been cautious about fuel hedging since 2008, when several large carriers scrambled to lock in fuel needs as oil prices surged above $100 a barrel for the first time – only to see them plummet to less than $50 by year-end as a global recession hammered travel demand. But fuel traders at several regional banks have noted a widespread pick-up in hedge interest as oil prices have dropped, and volumes could rise in the next quarter if oil prices keep falling, they said. "Volumes increased when Brent crude was at $100 a barrel, and they increased last week when [oil prices] fell further and now [airlines] are waiting for prices to drop to below $95," one trader said, speaking on condition of anonymity, as he was not authorized to speak with the media. Jet fuel can account for anywhere between 20 and 50 percent of an airline's operating costs, so swings in oil prices can hit their bottom line and have an influence on fare prices. Airlines have different hedging policies with Australia's Qantas Airways  hedging as much as 94 percent of its fuel needs for the first half of next year, while Singapore Airlines  is hedged at around 52 percent for its 2014-2015 financial year. The amount of hedging eased after the 2008 crisis but has picked up pace recently with prices on a downward trend. Brent crude oil prices  fell below $100 a barrel on Sept. 8 before sliding to a 26-month low of $95.60 a barrel on Wednesday due to a soft global economic outlook. Singapore jet fuel prices – widely used as a regional benchmark – have fallen from around $125 a barrel in late June to about $109 currently, and have averaged $119.44 a barrel so far this year, down from last year's average of $122.86, Reuters data showed.   PURCHASING TO 2016 Many airlines are locking in contracts as far ahead as 2015 and 2016, a second trader said, suggesting they view the current oil price level as potentially attractive over the near to medium term. "They've been quiet for the first six to seven months of the year and their hedge ratios were low, but they're now coming out to hedge. They are hedging at $112 to $113 a barrel for jet fuel flat prices for next year," he said. Thai Airways International Pcl  has raised its jet fuel hedging to 63 percent of fuel needs in late 2015, compared with 53 percent until the middle of next year, a senior company official said. "As long as jet fuel prices are still in the range of $100-$125, we will not post losses," the official said. Others are taking a more cautious approach. Japan's ANA Holdings  and Japan Airlines Co Ltd  do not plan to change their fuel hedging strategies just yet, they said.     Any airlines that locked in long-term contracts at the start of the year, when oil prices were about 10 percent higher, might be facing losses in the second half of this year unless they raised fares, traders said. "It's better for airlines to do a consistent fixed percentage of regular hedging rather than capturing ups and downs as they usually lose big money because of this," said Kelvin Lau, an analyst at Daiwa Securities Markets (Hong Kong). ANA did not disclose the price level it hedged, but its business plan for this year assumes a level of $125 a barrel for Singapore jet fuel prices, the company said.  (Additional reporting by Manunphattr Dhanananphorn in BANGKOK, Jane Wardell in SYDNEY, Timothy Kelly in TOKYO, Fang Yan in BEIJING and Anshuman Daga in SINGAPORE; Editing by Gavin Maguire and Richard Pullin.) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas Jackson British Prime Minister David Cameron announces that the UK will join the air campaign against ISIL as he addresses the 69th United Nations General Assembly at the UN headquarters in New York City on Wednesday. Hello! Here's what you need to know for Thursday.  1. Two days after authorizing airstrikes against Islamic State militants in Syria, President Barack Obama called on the world to unite to dismantle the "network of death" of the extremist group, also called ISIS and ISIL, during an address at the UN general assembly.  2. Obama also said the US would lift sanctions in Russia if the government supported a peace deal between Ukraine and pro-Russian separatists.  3. British Prime Minister David Cameron will meet with Parliament on Friday to debate "the UK’s response to the request from the Iraqi government for airstrikes to support operations against ISIL in Iraq," Downing Street said in a statement. Cameron made clear he was ready to join US-led airstrikes in Iraq in a speech at the UN general assembly.   4. French President Francois Hollande confirmed that a French tourist kidnapped in Algeria was killed by an Islamic State-linked jihadist group known as Jund al-Khilafah in response to French airstrikes in Iraq.  5. India's first probe to enter Mars' orbit has snapped its first picture of the red planet. It's OK.  6. Apple pulled the iOS 8.0.1 update following widespread reports that it was messing up people's phones. 7. Reports that the new iPhone 6 Plus bends when tucked into a pants pocket has sparked internet hysteria, although there's little to suggest that the phone's malleability is related to its structural design.  8. Three suspected Islamic State terrorists turned themselves in after French police went to the wrong airport to retrieve them.  9. China is considering replacing central bank chief Zhou Xiaochuan "amid disagreements over the direction of financial policy," the Wall Street Journal reports.  10. A new report from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention tracks infant mortality in the world's most developed nations, showing that the US falls behind most European countries as well as Japan, Korea, Israel, Australia, and New Zealand. And finally ... David Cameron will say sorry to the Queen in person after he was overheard on a microphone telling former New York mayor Michael Bloomberg that she "purred" in response to learning that Scotland voted No to independence.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersPedestrians walk past a Tesco store in Bow, east LondonLONDON (Reuters) - Executives from Tesco , the world's No. 3 retailer, could be grilled by a British parliamentary committee of lawmakers over its overstatement of profits, BBC radio reported on Thursday. Adrian Bailey, chairman of the parliamentary business committee, told BBC Radio 5 Live Tesco executives could be asked to explain the firm's 250 million pounds ($408 million) misstatement of first-half profits which wiped 2 billion pounds off its stock market value. Bailey said Tesco's overstatement was a "stratospheric error", adding that any probe could be extended to the wider UK grocery industry. "We may well as a committee want to look at this. Not just at Tesco but at what is going on in the retail industry and in the relationship with the suppliers to see if the issues we came across two years ago are still there," he said.  (Reporting by James Davey; Editing by Karolin Schaps) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFile photo of the corporate logo of financial firm Morgan Stanley on a building in San DiegoBy Dmitry Zhdannikov LONDON (Reuters) - Rosneft , Russia's biggest crude oil producer, may back out of a deal to buy Morgan Stanley 's oil trading unit because Western sanctions make it virtually impossible to finance day-to-day operations, three sources close to the state-controlled company said. The people said the chances of the deal going through range from "possible" to "highly unlikely." The business in question trades actual barrels of oil instead of just contracts linked to the price of crude. Morgan Stanley is under U.S. pressure to sell the unit because regulators regard physical oil trading as too risky for a major bank to own because unpredictable events like oil tanker leaks could expose it to billions of dollars in liability. A spokesman for Morgan Stanley declined to comment. Ruth Porat, the bank's chief financial officer, said in July she expected the deal to close later this year. Rosneft declined official comment. Rosneft agreed to buy the unit in December. Since then, the United States and the European Union have slapped wide-ranging sanctions on Russia's energy and military sectors to punish Moscow for its incursion into Ukraine. Rosneft's chief Igor Sechin, a close ally of Russian President Vladimir Putin, has been on the U.S. sanctions list since April. Rosneft itself was added to the list in July. Rosneft has enough cash to buy the Morgan Stanley unit, which sources said carries a price tag of between $300 million to $400 million. But to operate day-to-day, the business requires billions of dollars of bank lines of credit, funding that's difficult to secure given the sanctions. Reuters couldn't learn the precise size of these credit lines, but trading houses that compete with Morgan Stanley such as Vitol, [VITOLV.UL] Mercuria and Trafigura [TRAFGF.UL] each have $30 billion to $40 billion worth of credit lines with dozens of banks. "This deal just cannot go through. It is not an issue of finding $300 million to buy the business. Rosneft has the money. But it won't be able to operate it," one Russian-based source with direct knowledge of the matter said. One remaining obstacle for the deal is approval from the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, a regulatory group that vets mergers and acquisitions that may affect U.S. security. CFIUS has asked Rosneft and Morgan Stanley for more information about the deal, without approving it or rejecting it, a step that lawyers said is not unusual for a transaction under review. One Rosneft source said talks with CFIUS were still continuing: "The U.S. bureaucracy has simply asked for more information. We are still in the game." Others are less sure. A Western banking source who works with Rosneft said the company believes it could not do much with assets of a U.S.-regulated bank - even if it was allowed to buy them - because of sanctions.  BORROWING FROM CHINA In August, Rosneft applied for a $42 billion loan from a state wealth fund to help it weather sanctions. Last week, a Russian deputy prime minister said the government is considering the applications. For now, Rosneft, which generates $30 billion in cash flow a year, is meeting its financing needs from internal resources. It can also borrow from China, which has made available billions of dollars of credit lines to Russia. Morgan Stanley has been trying to sell its oil trading division for almost two years. Previous attempts to sell to buyers in the Middle East and Asia failed due to price and operational differences, according to market sources. The failure to sell the unit may benefit the bank because revenue in commodity trading businesses has been rising this year as markets have gyrated.    Sources told Reuters in July that after more than a year of scaling back, Morgan Stanley has started expanding its commodity division again with plans to hire traders, sales staff and other professionals in the United States.   (Reporting by Dmitry Zhdannikov in London, additional reporting by Lauren LaCapra in New York, editing by Dan Wilchins and John Pickering) FREE AppDownload
