Good morning! It’s jobs day in Australia. Here’s what you need to know… 1. Australia’s employment report for May is out this morning at 11.30am AEST. After a crash in consumer and business sentiment around the federal budget, the market will be looking for evidence in this number that those leading indicators are mood swings – not kidding – rather than something translating into real decisions by businesses to start sacking people, or postpone hiring. The market median expectation is for 10,000 jobs added for the month. We’ll have live coverage of the number and analysis when it’s out. 2. Sentiment in Australia has stabilised but remains in a slump, according to surveys from ANZ and Westpac which now show there hasn’t been much of a bounce from the big plunge associated with the federal budget. The Westpac index rose from 92.9 in May to 93.2 in June and the ANZ-Roy Morgan survey, which we’ve been describing as the scariest chart in Australia, was flat in its weekly update yesterday. 3. To the markets and a downgrade to the global growth outlook from the World Bank triggered some selling: stocks in the US came off a little with the Dow losing 0.6% to finish at : 16,843.88. The S&amp;P 500 was down 0.35% and the Nasdaq lost 0.14%. New Zealand has raised its key interest rate by 25 basis points this morning. 4. The Uber valuation. Are you using Uber taxis? You’re part of an extraordinary global story. Business Insider editor-in-chief Henry Blodget writes today that he’s been told the 4-year-old taxi company is doing $US10 billion in gross revenue. The company keeps 20% of gross revenue and gives the rest to drivers, so that equates to $US2 billion in net revenue. And that revenue, Blodget writes, is reportedly doubling every six months. So a recent $US18 billion valuation suddenly doesn’t look so crazy. 5. American politics is in chaos following the shocking defeat of one of the rising stars of the Republican party, Eric Cantor, to Tea Party candidate David Brat in his district’s primary. Cantor has this morning announced he will be resigning his position as House Majority Leader next month. This has really rocked the Republican establishment – Cantor was leading by 34 points in internal polling just weeks ago – just as we’re about to get started on the selection process for the candidates for the 2016 presidential election. Watch this space. 6. The difference between 3G and 4G mobile connections is stunning – but we may be waiting some years before moving to the next level. The fifth-generation mobile connectivity platform may take another six years to come about, according to Ericsson’s Erik Dahlman – but when it does, it’ll be delivering 10GB per second to your phone. More here. 7. The World Cup excitement is building. But with less than 24 hours to go, here’s the stadium in São Paulo: AP We’ve all had times when the relatives are coming around for dinner and the house isn’t in order… 8. A timely reminder on the incredible performance of Australia’s economy. CommSec’s Craig James has a report out this morning looking at what might happen if the tournament was played according to key economic metrics. Australia wins. 9. The season finale is coming. “Perhaps the finest hour” of Game of Thrones hits our screens next Monday. It’s a big call from the hit series’ producers David Benioff and Dan Weiss, particularly given the amazing run of Whoa Moments it’s had in Series Four. Monday’s finale – “The Children” – is a biggie, running to 66 minutes, and Benioff and Weiss say it’s their best series finales yet. There’s not much we can add to that without spoilers. Except this: 10. The truth about The Voice. Here’s why will.i.am really joined The Voice in Australia. “I have a label, through Universal, and it’s a great fishing pond, if you will, to find artists,” he told News Corp. The Black Eyed Peas frontman added that you’re kidding yourself if you think the actual best voice wins, because the viewers “always vote via emotions”. Finally, someone said it. Have a great day. I’m on Twitter: @colgo Follow Business Insider Australia on Facebook, Twitter, and LinkedIn This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersGoldman Sachs Group Inc will pay $67 million and Bain Capital Partners LLC will pay $54 million to settle their portions of a lawsuit accusing several big private equity firms of conspiring not to outbid each other in takeovers. The preliminary settlement with former shareholders of companies acquired in leveraged buyouts from 2003 to 2007 was disclosed in papers filed on Wednesday in Boston federal court, and requires approval by U.S. District Judge William Young. Goldman and Bain did not admit wrongdoing in agreeing to settle. Five defendants remain: Blackstone Group &lt;BX.N&gt;, Carlyle Group &lt;CG.O&gt;, KKR &amp; Co &lt;KKR.N&gt;, Silver Lake Partners and TPG Capital Management. A trial is set for Nov. 3. The December 2007 lawsuit, which has shined a light on how Wall Street operates behind the scenes, accused private equity firms of running an "overarching" conspiracy not to outbid, or "jump," each other after transactions were announced. Goldman was a defendant because of buyouts involving its private equity arm. Eight buyouts totaling more than $100 billion were part of the case: movie theater chain AMC Entertainment Inc, food service company Aramark Corp, chipmaker Freescale Semiconductor Inc, casino operator Harrah's Entertainment Inc, hospital chain HCA Inc, pipeline operator Kinder Morgan Inc, software maker SunGard Data Systems Inc and power company TXU Corp. TXU later changed its name to Energy Future Holdings. "The plaintiffs saw an LBO market that was not working competitively, and shareholders were not receiving competitive prices," said Christopher Burke, a partner at Scott &amp; Scott representing the plaintiffs, in an interview. He added: "It is harder to settle multi-defendant lawsuits in one fell swoop, and this may portend breaking the logjam." Goldman spokeswoman Andrea Raphael said the bank is pleased to settle. Bain spokesman Ernesto Anguilla in a statement said it was best to "put this matter behind us in light of the costs and distraction of six years of litigation." Blackstone and Carlyle declined to comment. A KKR spokeswoman said the lawsuit lacks merit. A TPG spokesman said that firm disputes the allegations and expects to prevail at a trial. Silver Lake did not respond to a request for comment. The lawsuit originally accused the defendants and other firms of conspiring to deflate prices in 27 buyouts worth about a quarter-trillion dollars. Another federal judge in March 2013 found a lack of evidence for that claim, and narrowed focus to jumping. Much of the case was has been built on emails. In one, Blackstone President Hamilton "Tony" James emailed KKR co-founder George Roberts that he would "much rather work with you guys than against you," and that "in opposition we can cost each other a lot of money." The plaintiffs' lawyers may seek fees of up to 27.5 percent of the settlement funds, plus up to $10 million for costs. Goldman and Bain agreed to help the plaintiffs authenticate documents that could be used at trial. The case is Dahl et al v. Bain Capital Partners LLC et al, U.S. District Court, District of Massachusetts, No. 07-12388.   (Reporting by Jonathan Stempel in New York; Editing by Chris Reese and Cynthia Osterman) FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Three Reasons We're Seeing A Disconnect Between Stock Markets And News Headlines (BlackRock Blog)  Global and U.S. stock markets have been hitting record highs, despite the "disturbing" headlines writes Russ Koesterich at BlackRock. He sees three key reasons for this disconnect. "First, there’s no clear link between these events and near-term economic or earnings growth. Yes, an escalation of violence in Ukraine could lead to increased sanctions against Russia and potentially slower growth in Europe, but thus far none of the parties involved in the crisis seem inclined to up the ante. "Second, over the past five-years investors have been conditioned to “buy the dips.” Anyone who bought equities during the U.S. debt ceiling debacle or the showdown over European sovereign debt has been well rewarded. Finally, while these issues are obviously significant from a geopolitical perspective, some have little systemic significance for the global economy. The events in the Ukraine and Thailand are national in nature, and together these countries account for less than 3% of the MSCI Emerging Market Index." The Top Three Reasons Families Avoid The Wealth Transfer Conversation (Vanguard)  Kristin Barry, Vanguard Financial Advisor Services, highlights the top three reasons that families fail to have the wealth transfer conversation. 1. "Fear of a negative effect on the work ethic of their heirs. If my heirs know what level of wealth they stand to inherit, will they continue working as hard as they do today?"2. "Second is that we were never really taught to discuss wealth. It hasn’t been a topic that we bring to the dinner table dialogue. So it’s just that upbringing of never being taught to discuss this topic."3. "And the third is a fear that the heirs aren’t mature enough to handle this conversation." It's difficult to have talks about wealth transfer and inheritance with family members but it is also necessary. A study by the Institute for Preparing Heirs, cited by Vanguard, found that 70% of wealthy families lose a chunk of their assets during the process because of a lack of communication and trust in the family. Here Are The Six Things That Worry Nouriel Roubini (CNN Money)  Nouriel Roubini spoke at an event hosted by Aberdeen Asset Management in New York and said there are six things that worry him now. Ben Rooney at CNNMoney sums up Roubini's top concerns.1. A Chinese bumpy landing — Roubini doesn't think China will have a hard landing but he does think growth will "surprise to the downside." 2. The Fed acts too quickly — Investors largely expect the Federal Reserve to hike rates sometime in 2015, but if inflation ticks up and depending on how the new members of the FOMC vote, rates could tick up sooner.3. The Fed is too slow to act — If the Fed waits too long it could create a stock market bubble. 4. New risks for emerging markets (paraphrased from Rooney) — "Many of the factors that had supported these economies in the past are now working against them."5. The Ukraine crisis continues — Roubini thinks investors are too lax about the threat of another "cold war."6. The rise of China — Roubini thinks there is a risk of geopolitical conflicts in Asia as China continues to rise. "The risk of an outright conflict is one you cannot discount," Roubini said. The Importance Of Revenue Sharing Relationships With CPAs And Attorneys (The Wall Street Journal)  High-net worth clients typically rely on a range of experts, including financial planners, accountants and attorneys. In a new WSJ column, Paul Saganey, president and founder of Integrated Financial Partners, writes that if these various experts don't work together, it can actually be a disservice to the client. "I've found that the best results are achieved by building a team-focused dynamic with these professionals," writes Saganey.  "We do this by engaging CPAs and attorneys in a revenue-sharing relationship, where all revenue derived from the financial-planning process is shared with the CPA or attorney and disclosed to the clients in advance. Not only does this lead to more efficient and effective service for the client, but it also unlocks a potent new source of referrals for advisers and provides an opportunity to significantly grow their practice." Eric Cantor's Defeat Could Mean Stricter Oversight For Advisors (FA Mag) House Majority Leader Eric Cantor suffered a surprising loss to Dave Brat, a Tea Party-backed professor on Tuesday. This shakeup of the House could lead to stricter oversight of financial advisors. "Changes in Republican leadership could elevate Rep. Jeb Hensarling, chairman of the Financial Services Committee, to a higher post and result in his chairmanship being filled by Rep. Randy Neugebauer of Texas or Rep. Ed Royce of California, who are viewed as receptive to stricter SEC advisor regulation, according to advisor industry sources," writes Ted Knutson at FA Mag. But two other potential candidates have an anti-regulation stance similar to Hensarling and they might not be as open to stricter regulations for advisors, sources told Knutson. FREE AppDownload
Flickr via Fortune Live MediaTravis Kalanick, CEO and co-founder of Uber.People are still gawping at Uber's last round of financing, a $1.2 billion deal that valued the company at $18.2 billion (post-money). Most observers view that valuation as a sign of obvious insanity — further confirmation of "a new tech bubble." That seems unlikely. Uber's new investors could obviously lose money, just like any investors. But, for two reasons, the investment is likely a more reasonable bet than it might initially appear. First, Fidelity and the other Uber investors almost certainly bought preferred stock, not common stock. When you buy preferred stock, your downside is usually limited. Preferred investors are higher in the capital structure than common investors (thus the "preferred"), so in a liquidity event, they usually get all their money back, even if the company sells for a much lower valuation than the one at which they invested. In many cases, including, possibly, this one, preferred investors also get a guaranteed return. For Uber's latest investors to lose money, in other words, Uber would likely have to sell for a valuation of less than $1.2 billion, more than 90% below the $18.2 billion valuation of the latest deal. Things would have to go horribly, catastrophically wrong for that to happen. Second, and more important, Uber's financial performance may easily justify the $18.2 billion valuation. An industry friend has heard that Uber's recent revenue growth has been so spectacular that those who have seen the four-year-old company's projections are talking about $10 billion in gross revenue. $10 billion! Uber keeps 20% of gross revenue and gives the rest to its drivers. So $10 billion of gross revenue would equate to $2 billion of net revenue. It's not clear whether the $10 billion figure is a current run-rate or a projection for this year or next (I'm assuming it's a forward projection), but if it's even close to accurate, it's astounding. For what it's worth, the number is in the range of numbers that one smart industry analyst, Paul Kedrosky, extrapolated from some information that leaked at the end of last year.  If Uber is on track to do $2 billion of net revenue, the $18 billion valuation would be about 10 times revenue. Ten times revenue isn't a low revenue multiple, certainly, but it's also not a sky-high one. Especially for a company that has few costs other than software development, training, marketing, and lobbying (the latter to stop taxi organizations and local governments from banning it). There's no reason to think that Uber couldn't eventually have a profit margin of 20%, 30%, or even more. And with that kind of profit margin, a 10X revenue multiple on a fast-growing revenue stream is perfectly reasonable. To put the 10X multiple in context, it's in the same range as the forward multiples for some other hot tech stocks. Facebook is trading at about 10X projected 2015 revenue. LinkedIn is trading at about 8X.  This is a point that Kalanick himself made recently in the Wall Street Journal, that Uber's deal was actually priced below the multiples of comparable public-market companies. Uber's revenue, moreover, is growing astoundingly quickly—much faster than these other companies. Few companies in history, if any, have grown as fast as Uber has. Travis Kalanick, Uber's CEO, recently said that Uber's revenue is doubling every six months. Even if Uber's revenue growth suddenly slowed, so it only doubled once a year, or once every two years, the $18 billion valuation wouldn't seem extreme. And then there's another statistic that my industry friend has heard: Most of Uber's current revenue comes from only five cities. Why is that startling? Because Uber is now operating in 130 cities. If Uber were operating mature businesses in all of those cities, and were unable to generate much revenue in them, this statistic might be cause for concern. But the Uber operations in most of those 130 cities are relatively new. And if Uber is generating most of its ~$10 billion of gross revenue from only five cities, imagine how big the company will be when the operations in the 125 other cities really kick in. Not to mention the operations in all the other cities Uber will likely launch in in the next several years. (In San Francisco, Uber's first city, the company is now doing several hundred million of revenue. Kalanick has not specified whether this is gross revenue or net revenue, but, either way, it's impressive. San Francisco is a relatively small city.) Yes, you say. But taxi companies hate Uber. And they're busy trying to shut it down in some of those cities. Yes, taxi companies are fighting Uber. But so far, Kalanick tells The Wall Street Journal, Uber has been shut down in only one of those 130 cities. And given how much Uber users love Uber — as evidenced by the company's supernatural growth rate — it seems safe to say that it won't be easy for many more cities to shut Uber down. (A dozen or two? Maybe. But that would still leave 100-plus cities). And all this revenue, of course, is coming from Uber's taxi business. Uber recently launched a delivery business. We don't yet know how successful that new business will be, but if it is even a fraction as successful as the taxi business, it will create another massive new revenue stream.  Then there's one last startling fact. Kalanick says that Uber is growing even faster now than it was last year, when everyone was ridiculing the $3 billion valuation that Uber's prior round of investors paid. In other words, far from slowing, Uber's revenues are accelerating. From 2004 to 2012, industry observers ridiculed every successive increase in Facebook's private-market valuation. They dismissed its investors as stupid and declared the price the investors paid as proof of a new tech bubble. And they did the same with Twitter's valuations, and Google's valuations, as well as the valuations of many other Internet companies. And yet, in the end, many of these valuations proved cheap. If Uber's revenues are anything close to the figure my industry friend is hearing, Uber's $18 billion valuation may end up looking quite reasonable. SEE ALSO: No, Really, Uber Could Be A $100 Billion Company FREE AppDownload
TripAdvisorNew Zealand has increased its key interest rate to 3.25% from 3%.  The Reserve Bank of New Zealand said it expects the Kiwi dollar to decline with commodity prices. The country is a major agricultural exporter. The Kiwi currency was slightly higher Wednesday. It's always big news when a country's central bank raises rates, since it determines the cost of borrowing in that country's currency. The New Zealand dollar is the 10th-most traded currency in the world. The RBNZ said in its statement that current exchange rates are not sustainable.  In Morgan Stanley's Summer Global Macro Outlook report filed this past weekend, economist Sung Woen Kang said the firm expected the central bank to raise rates by 25 basis points at both its June and July meetings. Kang: "We expect the RBNZ to hike 25bp in June and July to 3.5% (with downside risks in July), before taking an extended pause ahead of the September elections. A cumulative 100bp increase early on would place the RBNZ ahead of the curve and it may use the June MPS to signal a lower rate profile for the rest of the forecast horizon. The bank may be unwilling to pause in the very near term, as it could bring down fixed mortgage rates further and exacerbate the declining floating-fixed loan ratio, hence impeding the policy transmission mechanism. This would make the bank’s job more difficult down the line." Morgan Stanley expects that after taking its benchmark interest rate to 3.5%, the RBNZ will not tighten until the second quarter of next year. Morgan Stanley FREE AppDownload
Wiki CommonsShares of luxury home goods retailer Restoration Hardware are up more than 11% after hours following a better-than-expected earnings report. Restoration Hardware reported first quarter adjusted earnings of $0.18 per share against expectations for $0.14, on revenue of $366.7 million against expectations for $347.7 million. The company also raised its fiscal-year adjusted earnings view to earnings per share $2.24 to $2.30 on revenues of $1.86 billion to $1.89 billion.  "RH continued to outperform the home furnishings industry by a wide margin in the first quarter of 2014," CEO Gary Friedman said. Net revenues increased 22% on top of a 38% increase last year. Comparable brand revenues increased 18% on top of 39% last year, with a 57% two-year growth period that is tops in the industry. Friedman added that once the company's real estate transformation in North America is complete, it expects to deliver sales of $4 billion to $5 billion annually, with operating margins in the mid-teens and "significant" free cash flow. FREE AppDownload
NASAMajor negative effects of climate change are here now and they're only getting worse, as shown by recent reports from the United Nation's Intergovernmental Panel On Climate Change (IPCC) and the White House among others. The greenhouse gas emissions that drive warming "now substantially exceed the highest concentrations recorded in ice cores during the past 800,000 years," the IPCC said. Atmospheric carbon dioxide levels, which primarily come from the burning of fossil fuels, have risen 40% since pre-industrial times.  We've gathered some notable effects of climate change below. Unless otherwise noted, each effect assumes a temperature rise of 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 F) by 2100, a number the IPCC has suggested we are "more likely than not" to exceed, and a sea level rise of 0.5 meters (1.5 feet) by 2100, about the average of all the IPCC's most recent climate scenarios. This is a conservative estimate as other studies have suggested that sea level rise will be much greater if climate change continues unmitigated. Asset destruction, forced relocations, droughts, extinctions, and all of the other bad things we're going to discuss will add up in costs to the global economy. Already the Natural Resources Defense Council estimates that the U.S. Climate Disruption Budget — i.e., stuff related to drought, storm, and growing climate disruptions — was nearly $100 billion. And that's just the start. By 2030, climate change costs are projected to cost the global economy $700 billion annually, according to the Climate Vulnerability Monitor. As climate change continues, costs will go up. Indeed, the release of a 50-billion-ton reservoir of methane from melting Arctic ice, which may advance global warming by 15-to-35 years, could by itself cost $60 trillion to the global economy, researchers told Nature last summer. Stopping the damage won't be cheap either. For instance, putting the world on a path for sustainable energy production will cost $53 trillion, according to the International Enegy Agency's World Energy Investment Outlook. International Displacement Monitering Centre"98% of all displacement in 2012 was related to climate- and weather-related events," according to the Internal Displacement Monitoring Center. Climate change may become the biggest driver of displaced people, according to António Guterres, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. In 2008, 36 million people were displaced by natural disasters. At least 20 million of those people were driven from their homes by disasters related to climate change like drought and rising sea level, Guterres said. He anticipates that countries in the Southern Hemisphere will be most affected by displacement in the future. If this happens, "not only states, but cultures and identities will be drowned," Guterres said at a 2009 conference. The Internal Organization for Migration estimates that 200 million people by 2050  could be forced to leave due to environmental changes. Even more alarming, a 2014 study published in Environmental Research Letters predicted that sea level rise created by a temperature increase of 3 degrees C would force more than than 600 million people to find new homes. CDCThe deadliest vector-borne disease is malaria, claiming 627,000 lives in 2012 (A vector-borne disease is one carried from one person to another through a third organism, like a blood-sucking bug). "However, the world's fastest growing vector-borne disease is dengue, with a 30-fold increase in disease incidence over the last 50 years," the World Health Organization wrote. As summers become longer, temperatures go up, and rainfall patterns change along with species patterns. Mosquitoes carrying diseases will likely have a longer season in a wider area, according to the Natural Resource Defense Council. "The same is true on a global scale: increases in heat, precipitation, and humidity can allow tropical and subtropical insects to move from regions where infectious diseases thrive into new places," they wrote. Increases in international travel, "means that the U.S. is increasingly at risk for becoming home to these new diseases." Wikimedia Commons/David S. RobertsFires burn east of San Diego in 2007.  For each one degree Celsius of warming, the area burned by western wildfires will increase by a factor of two to four, according to a report by the National Academy of Sciences. Temperatures in the southwest have increased over one degree Celsius since the 1970s, according to the National Climate Assessment. The major fire increases will occur in the northern Great Plains, the Rocky Mountains, and the Southwest, according to a 2012 report for firescience.gov. The fire season could also become several months longer.  California Department of Water ResourcesThe California water crisis, in one photo. In 2013, about 1.3 billion people lived in water scarce regions, according to one study. The researchers calculated that an additional 8% of the population would enter a state of "new or aggravated water scarcity," solely due to climate change with a temperature increase of 2 degrees C by 2100. The National Climate Assessment detailed some of our Nation's record breaking droughts. In 2011, Texas and Oklahoma saw more than 100 days over almost 28 degrees C, and also set records for hottest summer since 1895, when people began keeping reliable climate records. "Rates of water loss, due in part to evaporation, were double the long-term average. The heat and drought depleted water resources and contributed to more than $10 billion in direct losses to agriculture alone," said the Assessment. When parched areas do get rain, it does not necessarily make it into groundwater supplies since dry ground is not good at absorbing water, according to the convention report. While some places are becoming drier, others are in danger of serious floods (see 8 and 13). NOAA NCDCThe primary billion dollar disaster for coastal states is hurricanes.  Northern and interior states are hit mostly by winter storms and tornadoes, said NOAA.The recent National Climate Assessment found that Category 4 and 5 hurricanes (the strongest) have increased in frequency, intensity, and duration since the 1980s. It's not yet clear how much can be attributed human or natural causes but scientists said the "the trend is projected to continue," and that climate change is not going to help the situation moving forward. One of the factors responsible for this increase in hurricane intensity is warmer waters, which make great fuel for storms. "Hurricanes tend to be self-limiting, in that they churn up deeper (usually cooler) water that can stop them from gaining strength and also weaken them. So since global warming also warms the deeper ocean, it further helps hurricanes stay stronger longer,"according to climate writer Joseph Romm. One model predicts up to an 11% increase in hurricane intensity, as well as about a 20% rain increase within about a sixty mile radius of the storm's center (these numbers are based on a climate scenario with an average of 2.8 degree Celsius warming). Climate.gov One day, New York City, may have flood days the way it has snow days, Malcolm Bowman, oceanography professor at Stony Brook University in Long Island, warned on WNYC. The graphic above shows what the Federal Emergency Management Agency flood zone might look like should extreme sea level rise occur (2.5 feet or about 0.8 meters by 2050). "Areas in the 100-year flood zone have a 1 percent chance of being flooded annually and are particularly vulnerable to rising sea levels," NOAA said. This zone includes several areas devastated by Hurricane Sandy, including the Brooklyn-Queens Waterfront, the East and South Shores of Staten Island, South Queens, Southern Brooklyn, and Southern Manhattan. NOAAHigher sea levels mean higher tides and surges.   Since the mid-1800s, the chances of storm tide over topping the Manhattan sea wall have increased 20%, according to one recent study, as storm water levels have risen. The researchers expect the seawall to be submerged about once every four to five years. In the 19th century that only happened once every 100 to 400 years. "What we are finding is that the 10-year storm tide of your great-, great-grandparents is not the same as the 10-year storm tide of today," the lead author of the study said in the press release. Assuming a sea-level rise of .5 meters by 2070, with an extra .5 to 1.5 meters to account for storms, a 2008 study ranked the most exposed cities in the world. The analysis found staggering potential losses in cities around the world. Calcutta, India, may be the most exposed, with 14 million people and $2 trillion in assets at risk. Miami is also in big trouble with 4.8 million people and $3.5 trillion at risk. If global temperatures rise one degree C, more than 40 of the more than 700 UN world heritage sites will be seriously threatened by water within the next 2000 years, according to a study published in Environmental Research Letters. If temperatures rise 3 degrees C, that number rises to 136 sites. Historical city centers like Venice, Istanbul, and St. Petersburg, would be among those impacted. "Loss of cultural world heritage and currently inhabited places to sea-level rise," by Ben Marzeion and Anders LevermannThe rainbow scale labeled <U+0394>T, refers to a rise in degree Celsius.  The open black circles are the sites which have already been impacted today <U+0394>T = .8. While warming temperatures might initially help certain crops, the overall picture is negative. Global crop yields are slowing down as a result of events related to climate change, like reduced rainfall and higher temperatures. Wheat and maize have already been negatively affected in certain regions, as shown in the chart below. The IPCC points out several scenarios in which food and cereal prices have rapidly increased following extreme weather events since their last report in 2007. The new report predicts continued drops in global wheat and maize production, which could lead to food scarcity and political unrest. IPCC Low-lying islands in the tropics are particularly vulnerable to sea level rise. "It has been suggested that the very existence of some atoll nations is threatened by rising sea levels associated with global warming," the IPCC said. Out of the 10 nations rated with the highest protection cost compared to their GDP, eight were island nations, according to the IPCC. Some of the threats to these islands are less obvious such as "airborne dust from the Sahara and Asia, distant source ocean swells from mid high latitudes, invasive plant and animal species and the spread of aquatic pathogens," the report said. Sea-level rise leads to flooding, stronger storm surge, and erosion, which can cause even more damage to small islands and coastal regions. Climate change will also hurt, fisheries agriculture, and tourism in these regions. NOAA Coral Reef Ecosystem Division When reefs die...Climate change creates unfavorable conditions for the survival of coral reefs. If global and local reef threats continue, including those related to climate change, all reefs could be at risk of disappearing by 2050, according to the key findings of the World Resources Institute. Rising ocean acidity created by higher carbon dioxide levels means fewer carbonate ions, a key ingredient for coral skeleton building. Since pre-industrial times, ocean carbonate levels have dropped by 25% according to the report. "Corals cannot survive more than a 2 degree global average temperature increase over pre-industrial levels before coral is no longer able to replace itself faster than coral bleaching will destroy it," the report said. Temperatures are expected to rise at least that much by 2100. IPCC The Physical BasicsWelcome to our warming world. Losing the reefs will also take a major toll on tourism and industry, according to the World Wildlife Fund and Earth Hour report. Coral reefs provide tourism-related income to at least 94 countries, according to the World Resources Institute. Australia faces loses of up to $6 billion dollars and over 63,000 jobs, from Great Barrier Reef damage. Seventy percent of the 27 countries and territories most vulnerable to reef damage are small-island states. The nine countries most vulnerable to reef degradation, including Haiti and Fiji, are very dependent on the reefs and "have limited capacity to adapt to reef loss," wrote the World Resources Institute. Besides being biodiversity hotspots and holding potentials for medicine, coral reefs act as a buffer to storms and erosion. One-hundred countries could lose coastal protection along almost 100,000 miles of shoreline, according to the World Resources Institute. NOAA State Of The Coast"Along the Northern Gulf Coast, an estimated 2,400 miles of major roadway and 246 miles of freight rail lines are at risk of permanent flooding within 50 to 100 years as relative sea level is expected to rise in the range of 4 feet," according to NOAA. Since 1993, mean world sea level rise has gone up between 0.11 to 0.14 inches a year, according to NOAA. As this trend continues, coastal areas of the world will be inundated with water. This is especially disconcerting considering nearly 40% of people in the U.S. live in these coastal areas. Eight out of the 10 largest cities in the world are near the coast. (The percentages above are based on a New York Times interactive, which used a five-foot sea level rise, a number that is expected to occur within 300 years.) Using daily precipitation data from 28 models, a 2014 study published in the journal Nature projected the frequency of dry days around the world. It found that the Mediterranean Sea region, parts of Central and South America, and western Indonesia would suffer greatly, with up to 30 extra dry days a year compared to the 1960 to 1989 averageby the end of the century. "Short-term (seasonal or shorter) droughts are expected to intensify in most U.S. regions. Longer-term droughts are expected to intensify in large areas of the Southwest, southern Great Plains, and Southeast," according to the National Climate Assessment. Droughts could pose a variety of threats, the IPCC said. In areas of higher drought, water stores will not be replenished and water pollutant concentrations could rise. "Climate change is projected to reduce raw water quality and pose risks to drinking water quality even with conventional treatment."U.S. Drought MonitorThis month, nearly 15% of the country was in extreme drought, according to NOAA. As temperature rises many of our current wine producing regions will become unsuitable for vineyards. The number above uses a 1.8 degree C warming and is from a 2012 study in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. Problems could be compounded as owners relocate their vineyards to higher elevations — an ecosystem destroying process. Establishing a vineyard requires "removal of native vegetation, typically followed by deep plowing, fumigation with methyl bromide or other soil-sterilizing chemicals, and the application of fertilizers and fungicides," said the study. Since "[v]iticulture is famously sensitive to climate," the study said, it "may be illustrative of conservation implications of shifts in other agricultural crops." While not all agree with the percentages above, scientists have shown repeatedly that climate change will cause a variety of habitats to become unsuitable for their current inhabitants. This will send many plants and animals in search of new homes, invading those of others. Wikimedia/The Canadian Organization for Tropical Education and Rainforest Conservation (COTERC)He may soon have way more sisters than he bargained for.Because many reptiles rely on ambient temperatures to regulate physiological processes, they will be directly affected by global temperature change. For turtles, nest temperature determines the sex of the offspring. A cooler nest hatches only males while a warmer nest is all females. Changes in sex ratio could effect the potential to produce offspring as well as the evolutionary fitness the species, according to the Forest Service, both factors which do not bode well for the survival of the reptiles. One study in the Cape Verde Islands found that as rising temperatures heated sands in which sea turtles laid their eggs, the nest produced more females. While this may lead to an initial increase in population, 100 years in the future it could spell disaster, study author Graeme Hays told The Guardian. "You have so few males left that it's likely to be a problem. There will be heaps of female but not enough males to fertilize all those eggs," he said. Animals with similar problems could include other turtles, alligators, crocodiles, and some lizards. NASA Earth ObservatoryThis map compares the summer thunderstorm potential change from 1962-1989 with 2073-2099.One study found that when greenhouse gases increased, conditions prime for intense thunderstorms in the eastern and southern U.S. also increased. Other climate studies have suggested there will be "robust increases in the occurrence of severe thunderstorm environments" in the eastern U.S., often occurring before the 2 degrees C global warming baseline. One key factor that fuels thunderstorm formation is how much "raw energy" — called convective available potential energy or CAPE — is available. CAPE is affected by how much heat and moisture is in the air, as well as that air's tendency to rise, explains NASA's Earth Observatory. "CAPE can provide storms with the raw fuel to produce rain and hail, and vertical wind shear can pull and twist weak storms into strong, windy ones," meteorologist Harold Brooks of NOAA's National Severe Storms Laboratory told the Earth Observatory. Signs indicate that CAPE will be increasing as the climate warms. USGSWhat it looks like when a glacier dies. Over one billion people worldwide rely on glaciers and snow for freshwater as they melt, according to the IPCC. When glaciers are in equilibrium with the climate, they act as valuable and stable sources of freshwater for many regions including the Andes, Bolivia, Ecuador, Peru, and parts of India and China. They store water during cold or wet years and release it during warm years as they melt. "As glaciers shrink, however, their diminishing influence may make the water supply less dependable," the report said. Because glaciers are currently out of equilibrium, "total meltwater yields from stored glacier ice will increase in many regions during the next decades but decrease thereafter," the IPCC said. This can lead to floods in the immediate future, but result in a lack of meltwater in the long-term. Adverse conditions associated with a changing climate could worsen Southern California's air quality, the state's clean air progress report suggested. "The higher number of extreme heat days and heat waves predicted to occur as a result of climate change will increase smog formation, increase the number and severity of wildfires, worsen heat island effects in urban areas, and increase adverse health effects due to the public's increased exposure to harmful air pollutants," the report said. Air pollution has been linked to a to a long list of health ailments, including asthma, heart and lung damage, respiratory and cardiovascular diseases, and heatstroke, the report noted. Fine particulate matter is the "greatest risk to public health." This pollutant has been linked to heart disease, premature mortality and perhaps even diabetes, autism, and cognitive impairment. When the IPCC modeled about 1,000 marine species, it found almost a 50% decrease in catch in certain areas by 2060, using a scenario with a estimated 2.8 degree C temperature change. These analysis were without even considering ocean acidification or overfishing. IPCC Danielle Byerly, University of FloridaAn artist's rendering of the early horse Hyracotherium (right) alongside a modern-day horse. Researchers found that Hyracotherium body size decreased 19 percent during a global warming event about 53 million years ago.Fossil evidence tells us that when the planet was last at its warmest — about 55 million years ago during the Paleocene-Eocene Thermal Maximum — many animals got smaller. For example: One horse, Hyracotherium, usually the size of a small dog, shrunk in size by 30%. The horse returned to its normal size when the temperature went back down. But two million years later, during another smaller global warming event, Hyracotherium shrunk by 19%. "The fact that it happened twice significantly increases our confidence that we're seeing cause and effect," said University of Michigan Paleontologist Philip Gingerich, who presented his preliminary findings at the end of 2013. Past global warming, he said, appears to have caused many mammals to shrink. Scientists are now starting to see history repeat itself. Studies have shown that many animals, including polar bears and some reptiles, have started shrinking as carbon dioxide levels increase. A report from the World Food Program expects extreme weather events like floods, droughts, forest fires, and tropical cyclones to damage farmlands, threatening food security for millions of people. Climate impacts on crop yields will increase the number of malnourished children by around 11 million in Asia, 10 million in Africa, and 1.4 million in Latin America, the report said. By 2050, crop yields in Asia are expected to fall by 50% for wheat 17% for rice compared to 2000 levels, according to the report. This will threaten billions of people who rely on agriculture for their livelihoods. FREE AppDownload
Kevork Djansezian/Getty ImagesStocks were lower, as the Dow and S&amp;P 500 had their worst day since May 20. The defeat of House Majority Leader Eric Cantor dominated the headlines.  First, the scoreboard: Dow: 16,843.88, -102.04, -0.6%S&amp;P 500: 1,943.89, -6.9, -0.35%Nasdaq: 4,331.93, -6.1, -0.14% And now top stories of the day: Don't Miss: The Finance Case Of The Decade Will Come Before The Supreme Court Tomorrow » FREE AppDownload
Connecticut-based research firm Hedgeye is being very vocal about how upset its employees are about not being included on our Biggest Hockey Players Working On Wall Street list. So what's this about?   @delangedotcom @SallyPancakes #Joey told Sally no Hedgeye Hockey Players   "Joey," is a (rude) reference to our site editor, Joe Weisenthal. But it would be remiss for us not to say that he had little to do with the reporting of this piece, merely the final edit. This was a finance page project. And this? What's this about? This is an e-mail we got earlier today. Business Insider   And here are the jerseys he's talking about. Business Insider  
Yik YakIt's intern season on Wall Street, and some of those on the inside (and outside) are taking to anonymous social media app Yik Yak to post about their experiences and to bash other firms.  Similar to an anonymous Twitter, Yik Yak gained notoriety after being banned from high schools and middle schools for cyber bullying. The app features different threads with topics ranging from Harry Potter, The Hunger Games, Mario and the Mushroom Kingdom. You get the idea—it's popular with the younger kids. There's also now a thread on Yik-Yak dubbed "The Interning Wolves of Wall Street", full of references to major banks, jokes and intern culture. Daily Intelligencer's Kevin Roose pointed out two days ago that NYU students have been using the app to make fun of Goldman Sachs interns.  Since the app is anonymous and open to everyone, there's no actual way of knowing if these are coming from real Wall Street interns or not. Still, it's an amusing way for users to pass the time, poke fun at banking interns, and hate on rival firms. Posts range from talking about work:   To play: Yik Yak  Yik Yak To taking shots at other investment banks (mainly Goldman Sachs):      Screenshot On the chance that any Wall Street interns are actually using it to share thoughts or complaints, it's conveniently anonymous! Just remember to turn off your location, and post away.  FREE AppDownload
Stringer/ReutersCivilian children stand next to a burnt vehicle during clashes between Iraqi security forces and al Qaeda-linked Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) in the northern Iraq city of Mosul, June 10, 2014.The Islamic State of Iraq and al-Shams (Isis) has become the richest terror group ever after looting 500 billion Iraqi dinars - the equivalent of $429M (£256m) -- from Mosul's central bank, according to the regional governor. Nineveh governor Atheel al-Nujaifi confirmed Kurdish televison reports that Isis militants had stolen millions from numerous banks across Mosul. A large quantity of gold bullion is also believed to have been stolen. Following the siege of the country's second city, the bounty collected by the group has left it richer than al-Qaeda itself and as wealthy as small nations such as Tonga, Kiribati, the Marshall Islands and the Falkland Islands. Richest Terror Factions in the World (as of 2011) 1) Taliban - $70m - $400m 2) Hezbollah $200m - $500m ($120m from Iran) 3) Farc - $80m - $350m 4) Hamas - $70m 5) Al-Shabaab - $70m - 100m Source: Money Jihad The financial assets that Isis now possess are likely to worsen the Iraqi governement's struggle to defeat the insurgency, which is aimed at creating an Islamic state across the Syrian-Iraqi border. The Islamist militants took control of Mosul after hundreds of its fighters overwhelmed government  military forces in a lightening attack on Monday, forcing up to 500,000 people to flee the city and Iraqi prime minister Nouri al-Maliki to call a national state of emergency. The militants freed up to 1,000 inmates from Mosul's central prison, according to senior police officials. They are also in control of Mosul airport and local television stations. They also seized considerable amounts of US-supplied military hardware. Photos have already emerged of Isis parading captured Humvees in neighbouring Syria where they are also waging war against President Bashar al-Assad's regime. via IBTimes In a televised news conference, Maliki said "Iraq is undergoing a difficult stage" and urged the public and government to unite "to confront this vicious attack, which will spare no Iraqi." The US State Department has released a statement saying that it is "deeply concerned" by the Islamist militants' siege of Mosul. "The situation remains extremely serious. Senior U.S. officials in both Washington and Baghdad are tracking events closely in coordination with the Government of Iraq," the statement read. "The United States stands with the Iraqi people," it continued. IBTimesMosul lies in northern Iraq near the Syrian border.Google Maps Isis captured the city Falluja, 40 miles west of Baghdad, in January and currently controls large swathes of northern Iraq. The Iraqi government has launched a number of failed assaults on the city leaving hopes of retaking Mosul slim.  An Iraqi army officer told the Independent: "We can't beat them." "They're trained in street fighting and we're not. We need a whole army to drive them out of Mosul. They're like ghosts; they appear to hit and disappear within seconds." FREE AppDownload
In 1792, 24 stockbrokers and merchants signed the Buttonwood agreement on Wall Street, agreeing to trade on a commission basis. But the very first scrip (acknowledgment of debt) exchanged hands on Wall Street in 1674, according to Phil Mackintosh, the head of trading Credit Suisse.  The stock market has come a long way from the early days. "Many of the seemingly 'modern' issues in today’s markets – including latency, fragmentation and regulation – have in fact been affecting the evolution of the market for many decades," writes Mackintosh. This chart from Credit Suisse offers a timeline of the key market, regulatory, and technological events in the U.S. stock market. (h/t JC Parets at All Start Charts) All Star Charts FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlos BarriaA scandal surrounding metals-wear housing is rocking Asian markets. At issue are numerous loans that have been made with copper and aluminum pledged as collateral. The growing concern is that the same copper and aluminum has been pledged multiple times improperly. A subsidiary of a Chinese aluminum producer, Dezheng Resources, is being investigated for allegedly pledging the same stock of aluminum and copper against multiple banks, to access cheap funding, reports Lucy Hornby at Financial Times. Qingdao Port said last week that there were ongoing investigations into commodities held at Dagang Port, which is under Qingdao's management. Chen Jihong, founder of Dezheng was detained as part of a different investigation, and this prompted banks to check their exposure to Dezheng. CITIC Resources has asked courts in Qingdao to secure alumina and copper stored at the port Port. Citigroup Standard Chartered and other international banks also have exposure to such commodity backed deals. Goldman SachsGoldman Sachs explains how the repo business in China's Commodity industry works.How does this work? Remember, commodity financing is very common in China, as companies failed to secure traditional bank loans. Companies offer metals like copper and aluminum as collateral. Basically, a commodity owner imports commodity using letters of credit and stores it at a warehouse. It then borrows against the commodity offshore, in U.S. dollars. This is a way for commodity owners to gain access to short-term liquidity, it also lets them lend the money inside China for a higher rate and profit from the difference in interest rates. In Qingdao, the main concern is that there have been more warrants than the amount of underlying commodities, and that company in turn defrauded various banks. What does this mean for markets? Banks are now struggling to ensure whether these warehouses do in fact have the stock of collateral they claim to. And the Qingdao issue is expected to act as a catalyst that prompts banks to unwind their Chinese commodity financing deals (CCFDs). "In our view the developments in Qingdao are likely to continue the significant scaling back of FX inflows from foreign banks into China via commodity financing business,"Goldman analysts Roger Yuan and Max Layton wrote in a note out earlier this week. "...As foreign banks reduce their exposure to Chinese commodity financing deals (CCFDs), the profitability of these could be reduced meaningfully (via an increase of US rates and/or a lower FX loan quota to CCFD participants), more physical metal previously tied up in financing deals would be freed up for the physical market, helping ease the current temporary regional tightness." That basically means, as more supply is unleashed in the market, commodity prices are expected to decline. What's more? As more international banks are moving their offshore businesses from Hong Kong to Singapore, the risks from these commodity financing deals is spreading. FREE AppDownload
Flickr/davidjleeExpedia has become the first major travel website to accept Bitcoin for hotel reservations. The company suggested its large internet footprint was responsible for the decision to accept the the digital currency. Expedia partnered with Coinbase, a third-party payment processor, to allow customers to select bitcoin as a payment method alongside options like Visa, American Express, and PayPal. Despite Expedia's commitment to providing its customers an array of payment options, executives are unclear as to how many people will take advantage of the new service.  "I'd be lying if I said I had a good prediction for you," Expedia VP Michael Gulmann told The Washington Post. "The minute I give you any number, I know I'm going to be wrong." For its part, Coinbase seems to think allowing customers to pay in bitcoin will open Expedia up to a whole new swath of consumers. Expedia may be the first travel website to accept bitcoin, but it's hardly the first e-commerce site to do so. Overstock.com, Reddit, OKCupid, and other mainstream sites and services already accept the digital currency. FREE AppDownload
Bing MapsOwning a big apartment in New York City is great, but having a mansion in the Hamptons is a privilege only the 1% of the 1% can enjoy. Last year, then-Forbes reporter Morgan Brennan broke down the who's who of one of the most exclusive streets in the Hamptons — Southampton's Meadow Lane. Not only does it have access to a long stretch of private beach, but the median sale price of a home here was just under $18 million in 2012, according to PropertyShark, making it the most expensive street on the East End. The five-mile road even has a helipad to whisk its famous residents off to Manhattan. FREE AppDownload
AP PhotoIn the name of $1.7 billion, a group of hedge funds has followed Argentina from Ghanaian ports to Belgian bank accounts and even into space. On Thursday, the group will make the final stop on its odyssey: the front door of the U.S. Supreme Court. Argentina is asking the court to hear this peculiar case, which stretches back more than a decade, when the hedge-fund group first bought debt as Argentina teetered on the brink of financial ruin. The court will likely make a decision favoring the country or the hedge funds before its session is over at the end of the month. The group or Argentine bondholders, headed by Elliott Management's Paul Singer, want to be paid 100 cents on the dollar. In response, the Argentine government has called the holdouts "vultures," vowed never to pay them what they're asking, and put on a show of political theater Tony-winning proportions. Judge Thomas Griesa, of the Second Circuit Court in New York, decided back in November 2012 that the holdouts were right. "The fact is that the amount owed to plaintiffs by Argentina is the accelerated principal plus accrued interest," he wrote. "Argentina owes this and owes it now." Unwilling to cede, Argentina has appealed to the highest court in the United States, again pleading that favoring the holdouts is a violation of its deal with all bondholders. According to its contract, it says, it cannot negotiate the terms of its bond prospectus until the end of 2014, regardless of what the holdouts feel they're entitled to. So Argentina will not pay now. In fact it believes it cannot pay now, if it is to honor its contract with bondholders who did restructure — exchange bondholders. And it may not pay, ever: In May, a memo between the country and its lawyers was leaked. It outlined a plan to avoid paying the holdouts even if the Supreme Court maintain Griesa's ruling. This kind of intransigence has come with consequences. Despite making inroads paying collapse-era debts to organizations like the Paris Club and making nice with nemesis the International Monetary Fund, this fiasco with the holdouts is still locking Argentina out of international markets. Buenos Aires canceled a bond issue last month as interest rates on the bonds were too high. Argentina's Central Bank reserves are at its lowest point since the last crisis — about $28 billion. The country needs cash. But as long as Paul Singer is chasing it around the world, it will not have it. So the holdouts do not get their money, and Argentina's assets are chased all over the world. You can see how this got ugly. Wikimedia CommonsLa Fragata Libertad. The Boat Most people started paying attention to this case in the fall of 2012. That's when the hedge fund holdouts pulled off a spectacle the likes of which Wall Street had never seen. Argentina's naval vessel, La Fragata Libertad, was sitting in a harbor in Ghana. In what was for all intents and purposes a total pirate move, the holdouts managed to get a Ghanaian court to impound it for them as collateral. For months the ship and its crew sat while the International Maritime Court of the Sea deliberated the issue. In Argentina, President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner was spitting fire. And that fire stayed burning. Almost a year later, in August 2013, after having to fly commercial to avoid the holdouts impounding her plane, after appealing to courts that the holdouts should not be able to discover where the country's assets were kept outside the U.S. — a violation, she maintained, of the law governing this case, the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act — she still invoked anger over La Fragata Libertad in one of her most epic speeches. "When we had the issue with our the La Libertad, we held on, and we didn't give an inch to the vultures. When others said, 'pay the vultures to recuperate La Libertad'... to recuperate it with dishonor? Never. And as an Argentine, and the commander of the armed forces, we could only get it back with honor. And for that, Argentines, we must understand that there is a lot at stake." YouTubeMeanwhile In New York Argentina appealed to Judge Griesa's Second Circuit, arguing that the court was setting a dangerous precedent for international bond markets. If anyone could just hold out and sue instead of restructuring their debt, why would anyone ever restructure again? But again, Argentina lost. In rejecting this appeal, the Judge was even more brutal. He wrote:  "[T]he proposal submitted by Argentina ignored the outstanding bonds and proposed an entirely new set of substitute bonds. In sum, no productive proposals have been forthcoming. To the contrary ... counsel for Argentina told the panel that it “would not voluntarily obey” the district court’s injunctions, even if those injunctions were upheld by this Court. Moreover, Argentina’s officials have publicly and repeatedly announced their intention to defy any rulings of this Court and the district court with which they disagree ...  "What the consequences predicted by Argentina have in common is that they are speculative, hyperbolic and almost entirely of the Republic’s own making ... " The Financial Times' editorial page joined the chorus: "Ms Fernández has spent too long behaving like a sulky adolescent. It is time to grow up," it wrote. But there are those who agree with Argentina. While most bond agreements now come with Collective Action Clauses (CACs) that compel all bondholders to restructure if the majority of them do, there are agreements that slip through the cracks. According to economist Nouriel Roubini, one of those agreements is in Greece. He says that CACs don't go far enough there because they need aggregation clauses — clauses that would apply terms accepted by a majority of creditors across an entire series of debt (think: Argentine bond 1 and then the new reissued bonds). Greece's financial crisis era debt was issued in a number of different jurisdictions, and Roubini believes that makes it vulnerable to a lawsuit like this one. The International Monetary Fund, while unwilling to file a formal brief on the issue, has said that it "remains deeply concerned about the broad systemic implications that the lower court decision could have for the debt restructuring process in general." WikimediaForks Near The End Of The Road The only move left for Argentina was to go to the Supreme Court with a two-pronged attack — one arguing that the holdouts had to stop chasing Argentine assets around the world, the other asking the Supreme Court to hear its case. Both should be decided by the time the court ends it session at the end of the month. If the Supreme Court decides to hear Argentina's case, the country at the very least will have bought itself time until 2015, when its bond prospectus says it can negotiate with the holdouts. In this case, Cristina Fernandez will probably go on an epic shopping spree. Most likely, though, the Supreme Court will ask for advice and call for an opinion from the Solicitor General. The Solicitor General has sided with Argentina in the past, but given the country's leaked memo and continued intransigence, who knows what could happen this time around. This could still be good for the country though, because again, this could buy it more time. But then there's this: "The worst thing that could happen for exchange bond holders is that the Supreme Court says there's no federal case, no issues, no U.S. government opinion and lifts the stay on payment," says Federico Zaldua an Argentina-based trader on Itau BBA's Latin America bond desk. In that case, Argentina will find itself either in violation of its prospectus, or in violation of a U.S. judge's ruling. Think of it like an explosion going off. "If this happens many questions will be raised," said Zaldua, "but what I'm sure of is that prices will go down very sharply in the beginning and then go up. If the worst case scenario happens I'm buying Argentina bonds." Zaldua says he'll buy because, while there will be chaos in the immediate aftermath of the decision, eventually Argentina will be forced to negotiate with the holdouts. Being forced to negotiate isn't a violation of its prospectus — but it has to be forced. Or maybe it won't negotiate at all. Argentina could — against all rationality — maintain that it will not pay "the vultures." Cristina Fernadez will make some epic speeches, and the few Argentine's left with the stomach for this will be mollified. The country will remain a pariah of international markets, unable to replenish its coffers through bond sales. "Of course, the disaster window is always open in Argentina," said Zaldua. All the government has to do is climb through it. AP Photo FREE AppDownload
APTed Cruz, United States Senator from Texas.House Majority Leader Eric Cantor's shocking defeat isn't likely to have much effect on U.S. financial markets -- unless his departure emboldens Tea Party Republicans to again threaten a government shut-down over the debt ceiling next year, investment strategists said. Even though most of the items on Wall Street's legislative wish list, particularly corporate tax reform, were already viewed as non-starters over the next two years, Cantor's departure may roil the relative calm that's prevailed since the bipartisan budget deal of December 2013. "It underscores total political dysfunction," said Doug Kass, president of Seabreeze Partners Management in Palm Beach, Florida. "At some point the danger of no deal on the debt limit or increased wrangling raises the likelihood of a major repricing in stocks." The Tea Party Republicans who supported the 2013 government shutdown may believe that Cantor's defeat opens the door to another such battle, according to Greg Valliere, chief political strategist at Potomac Research Group in Washington. Dave Brat, the professor of economics who beat Cantor in Virginia's 7th Congressional district, has said in the past that he doesn't support raising the federal debt limit. "An ugly, market-rattling debt ceiling fight now looms in March 2015," potentially undermining the record-breaking run the S&amp;P 500 has put together over the last couple of years, Valliere said in a Wednesday note. Stocks slumped during the last debt ceiling battle in October 2013, only rebounding once negotiations to pass a budget and "suspend" the debt ceiling turned more constructive. Since Oct. 10, 2013, the S&amp;P 500 has gained 17.3 percent. The 2013 deal set spending limits through the end of 2015, and the 2011 Budget Control Act also set spending caps through the end of the decade. Still, the Tea Party's focus on the debt limit as a symbol of government spending run amok serves as a key rallying point. Cantor is stepping down as House majority leader at the end of July. Other investors were less sure that new House leadership would want to risk losing more public support by fighting the debt ceiling again, saying that they would more likely focus their battle on the growth in entitlement spending. "I don't think there's any consensus in the House to try to take on that (debt limit) again," said Dan Alpert, managing director at Westwood Capital in New York. "Most people are focused on maintaining the pressure on entitlements going forward." Issues such as immigration reform or a corporate tax holiday allowing companies to repatriate overseas earnings without penalty were already long-shots, and a re-energized Tea Party smelling possible November victories in Senate races in Mississippi or Iowa could move the GOP even further right. "There's this tangible disquiet and Cantor's loss shows a lot of discontent among Republican voters on spending, debt, and budget issues," said Loren Smith, research analyst at Capital Alpha Partners in Washington. Though most investors don't see a real problem for the broader stock market, unless a debt battle materializes, Wall Street is losing one of its favorite politicians. With contributions of $1.4 million, Cantor received more donations from the finance, industry and real estate sector in the 2014 election cycle than any other House member other than House Speaker John Boehner, according to the Center for Responsive Politics. Top donors include Goldman Sachs Group Inc, Citigroup, Blackstone Group and hedge fund Canyon Partners. "I thought it was stunning," Goldman Sachs chairman and CEO Lloyd Blankfein told CNBC this morning. "I hope it doesn't mean that it'll be impossible from this point forward to compromise on issues like the budget, on immigration policy or on any of the other issues wracking the economy." To be sure, Cantor's potential replacement as majority leader, Jeb Hensarling of Texas, the current chair of the House Financial Services Committee, isn't far behind with contributions of $1.09 million for this cycle. His top contributors come from insurance companies, as well as banks including JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co and Zurich-based UBS AG. "A basic lesson of markets is that all politicians are replaceable instantly, except the President who is replaceable almost instantly," said Ken Fisher, founder and president of Fisher Investments. "Cantor? He will be forgotten faster than you can say [former Virginia Representative] Tom Bliley (his predecessor you may recall)." (Reporting by David Gaffen; additional reporting by Andy Sullivan in Washington, editing by John Pickering) FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsTreasury DepartmentThe U.S. budget deficit narrowed to -$130.0 billion in May. That's down from -$138.7 billion in May 2012. Expectations were for $-130.5 billion.   It's the third-largest deficit in the past 12 months. Full release »    FREE AppDownload
David Ryder/ReutersBoeing lost a friend in Eric Cantor last night. Shares of Boeing are down more than 2% following the primary defeat of Republican House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, reports Bloomberg.  Cantor's loss could put reauthorization of the Export-Import Bank — which assists in financing the export of U.S. goods to international markets — at risk.  Financing from the Export-Import Bank would support $10 billion worth of Boeing's 2014 sales, Bloomberg said.  Chris Krueger, senior policy analyst at Guggenheim told Bloomberg in an email that Boeing was the "biggest loser" besides Cantor. In its first-quarter earnings release, Boeing said 37% of its $67 billion of backlog order in its defense, space, and security segment were with international customers. Boeing is the biggest loser in the blue-chip Dow Jones industrial average.  FREE AppDownload
The Northeast is failing to pull its weight in America's economic recovery story. New BEA data show the growth in the region was practically non-existent last year. Between New England and the "Mideast," real GDP averaged 1%. Washington DC contracted 0.5%, and growth in Maryland went nowhere.  Every other region of the country saw growth of at least 1.5%, with the Mountain West (or "Rocky Mountain" region) topping all at 4.1%. Last bit to note: Alaskan GDP shrank 2.5%. We warned last year that Alaska was getting left behind by the shale boom, and this seems to indeed be reflected here.   BEA Bonus chart: regional real GDP comparisons by recent years. It sure looks like whatever growth the shale boom has left in it, it will never surpass what Texas and the rest of the Southwest were able to extract out of it in 2012. BEA FREE AppDownload
It doesn't matter what's at stake - nobody wants to lose Rock-Paper-Scissors. Now a mathematician has cracked the code. Watch, listen, and dominate. Produced By Matt Johnston.Follow BI Video: On Facebook
MagnisesA private dinner at the Magnises townhouse in the West Village.Billy McFarland, 22, was a kid tech whiz who started his first outsourcing company at 13. "I had no friends ... I had my computer," said McFarland, the CEO of Magnises, a credit-card social club for young professionals in New York City. Today the college dropout and entrepreneur, who is also founder and CEO of Spling, an online ad platform, regularly hosts five-course meals and hotel parties for some of the city's young upper crust. The idea for Magnises came about in the summer of 2013. McFarland was out to dinner with friends when they started talking about their credit cards. He thought about how much better the plastics could be if they were used in more personalized ways. His idea? “Take this thing you’re using five times a day, make it more community-based, and then build perks around it that affect your everyday life,” said McFarland.MagnisesThe scene at the Magnises launch party.Hence Magnises, a young and inevitably chichi club that operates through a metal credit card. And out of a West Village townhouse. Which is precisely where I went to meet the young entrepreneurs in charge. As soon you climb the entrance steps and see the palatial main floor, you can’t deny the cool factor. With labeled artwork, funky decor, and a mash of bold patterns, it looks like a rich guy's bachelor pad. Open seven days a week from noon to 9 p.m., the rented townhouse is the epicenter of Magnises' cocktail parties, elaborate dinners, art shows, and lectures. But the company encourages members to stop by anytime, to network or just hang out.MagnisesFrom left: Robert Willenbrock (CTO), Callie Katt, Trevor Gopnik, and Billy McFarland.As they gave me a tour, McFarland and Trevor Gopnik, a co-founder and VP of Business Development, told me about designing the townhouse and showed me the tiny nook where most partygoers congregate at the end of the night. When we got to the upstairs bathroom, I asked if anyone’s actually used the shower. They thought about it for a second, and answered in amusement that they've never been asked that before. Later, VPO Callie Katt said, "I hope not!" Then there's the card itself. The black metal card is essentially a stylized form of club identification — linking to your existing bank account (but not creating a new one). As McFarland explained, “It’s not really about some showy card. It’s about the people that have it.” Basically, it's like dressing up your existing credit card with Magnises' logo. Aside from townhouse access, the membership card has other perks. A flash of the metal gives members access to last-minute reservations and deals at trendy restaurants such as ACME and Catch, clubs like Finale and Goldbar, and room upgrades at Grandlife Hotels.MagnisesRapper French Montana takes a photo of his Magnises card.Later, as we sat down to lunch at the neighboring Rosemary’s — their townhouse literally overlooks the restaurant's green roof — McFarland, Gopnik, and Katt describe Magnises' 1,200 members (roughly 30% of applicants are accepted) in a more plebeian way than I'd anticipated. They stress the diversity of their members, explaining that their jobs run the gamut from finance to fashion to technology. They want outgoing people, they want groups of friends, they want everyone from "all walks of life." They're aiming for those between 25 and 35, not post-grads. But when asked what qualities their members share, they’re less specific, using labels like “experience seekers” and those looking for “community.” Friday-night Netflix binge watchers need not apply. According to Magnises' business deck, over half their members attended top 50 schools, with 80% raking in over $75,000 a year.MagnisesThe townhouse is like a glorified bachelor pad.Their event photos show rapper French Montana rallying a fresh-faced crowd dressed in button-downs and miniskirts. However, they seemed visibly irked when I asked about their reputation as a "cool kids' club." "It's just not true. People who apply to Magnises don’t think they’re above it all. They want to be in the thick of things, and they’re working really hard," Gopnik said. "If you lay something as an elitist organization, you're saying you accept people who are just sitting back and spending their trust funds. And that’s not what we’re going for." But while they say they encourage diversity and believe the $250 annual membership fee won’t “class” anyone out, the new May members featured on their blog include a professional ski racer, a high-ranking Google employee, and a fashion model. They also dished that several Rangers players have applied. "We definitely have wealthy members ... there are a lot of wealthy people in New York," Gopnik said. "I think we’re a very good cross section of what New York is."MagnisesMagnises members pose for a photo.Many of the company's services sound like there straight out of "Gossip Girl." This summer they’re hosting a Mariner III Yacht Party, offering private drivers to the Hamptons and all over Manhattan, and setting up appointments for members to get custom wardrobes. The founders say that applications are now flowing in, growing from a few a week in December 2013 to about 70 a day today. When the company launched, The New York Times reported that during the application process Magnises asked applicants to hang out at their townhouse to see if they're “cool enough,” as during a fraternity rush. But McFarland says that couldn’t be further from the truth. He says The Times reporter came to interview them in the fall, before Magnises was fully formed. “If that’s what we did, I would not be working here,” Katt said.MagnisesMcFarland with rapper Wale.In reality, the online application is brief and asks questions like where you shop, what your favorite restaurants are, and what you like to do for fun. It makes applicants rank their reasons for applying, and asks them to provide their annual income. The next step is a phone interview (and a Google name search).  Katt said the process lasts between five days and two weeks. Magnises is searching for a second townhouse in Midtown and ultimately wants to expand membership until New York is “tapped.” The next stop is D.C., and one enthusiastic member is already talking about Istanbul.Facebook/MagnisesGuests at the Magnises launch party. As lunched winded down, the trio joked about getting a club pet (maybe a black Lab) and watching HBO's "Silicon Valley." They pondered whether there’s anything to do with the shower in their townhouse. After some half-serious considerations, they decide to just let it be. It was probably best left for show. FREE AppDownload
ReutersAn unmanned Falcon 9 rocket blasts off from Cape Canaveral Air Force Station on Florida April 18, 2014. TSelling groceries is likely to be huge for Amazon, Goldman says in a new note. The firm added shares of Amazon to its "Conviction List," this morning, saying the company currently represents, "one of the best risk/reward propositions" in the tech sector. Goldman is particularly bullish on Amazon's investment in AmazonFresh, its grocery delivery service currently available in Southern and Northern California, and Seattle. Goldman says AmazonFresh, "could prove a major catalyst for revenue growth and long-term profitability at Amazon." The firm says Fresh is a chance for Amazon to increase its sales volume, adding that online sales in grocery currently comprise just 0.5% of the $1 trillion industry.  New players have also made significant gains in the grocery space before. Goldman points out that since 1996, Walmart has grown grocery sales from 0% to 56% of its total sales. Goldman notes that since 1998, grocery has represented 64% of Walmart's total growth each year.  Bringing Fresh to up to 25 cities over the next five years could require investment of up to $1 billion per year, Goldman said. But the firm says Amazon has one of the best track records in the market in getting high returns on its investments, also noting that, "ongoing investment in fulfillment and infrastructure will widen Amazon's competitive lead."  Goldman said that Amazon's network of trucks for AmazonFresh could also improve margins in its last mile fulfillment network. Goldman said that from current levels, Amazon shares have about 20% upside. Shares of the tech giant have underperformed the S&amp;P 500 over the last year. They were trading up 1.5% Wednesday. Goldman Sachs Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through his personal investment company Bezos Expeditions. FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/DEAIn this Monday, June 9, 2014 photo provided by the Drug Enforcement Administration, Samantha Barbash, center, is escorted by law enforcement officers following her arrest in New YorkNEW YORK (AP) — A crew of New York City strippers scammed wealthy men by spiking their drinks with illegal synthetic drugs, then driving them to strip clubs that ran up tens of thousands of dollars on their credit cards while they were too wasted to stop it, authorities said Wednesday. A banker and a real estate attorney were among four victims who lost at least $200,000. None was identified by name in court papers. Drug Enforcement Administration and New York Police Department investigators arrested four women — all described as professional strippers — earlier this week on charges including grand larceny, assault and forgery, according to papers provided to The Associated Press. One of the women was expected to appear in state court in Manhattan later Wednesday following appearances Tuesday by the other three, including suspected ringleader Samantha Barbash. Barbash's attorney, Stephen Murphy, said Wednesday that his client denies the charges. He declined to comment further. A strip club manager also was facing potential charges. The roundup followed an undercover investigation that found that the women joined in a scheme to rip off the men by drugging them with the stimulant methylone, commonly known as "molly," or other drugs after arranging to meet them at upscale bars in New York and Long Island, authorities said. The impaired victims were driven to Scores in Manhattan and the RoadHouse in Queens, where they were charged for private rooms, expensive meals, drinks and other services, they said. The clubs paid the women for the visits, but the establishments were not facing criminal charges, authorities said. The men reported waking up in their cars or in hotel rooms with little or no memory of the encounters. Those who tried to dispute the strip club bills received texts from the strippers threatening to go public with their transgressions, authorities said. Last month, Scores sued a cardiologist, saying he owed the club $135,303 for unpaid services. According to the lawsuit, the doctor disputed the charges by saying "he was drugged by plaintiff's employees and thus did not authorize the charges" - a claim the club says is contradicted by security video showing him freely showing up there on four separate occasions. There was no immediate response to phone messages left Wednesday at Scores and the RoadHouse. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
Sometimes bankers have to do ridiculous things to win deals. And as M&amp;A activity picks up, they’re having to wear ridiculous things as well, says the Wall Street Journal.  Banks competing to underwrite Lululemon’s IPO in 2007 showed their commitment by shedding their suits and donning the company’s signature outfits to meetings. From the story: But yoga isn't for everyone. The stretchy bottoms were tight, remembers one banker who pitched the company. "It was pretty embarrassing, actually," says the banker, who remembers leaving his hotel the morning of the pitch and feeling goofy as people in business suits walked by. Even though they were determined to wear the pants, the bank didn't get a piece of the deal. In uptown Manhattan, UBS AG's bankers were planning an elaborate stunt of their own for the Lululemon pitch. The bank outfitted around 75 of its employees in Lululemon gear and had them descend upon Central Park for a "flash mob" yoga session. They photographed the event and presented it to Lululemon's management during their pitch. UBS was named as one of the deal's underwriters. "Our sales went down when we stopped interviewing investment banks," jokes Robert Meers, Lululemon's CEO at the time, who was stunned by the number of bankers who loped into meetings sporting his product. Wearing the right brand can make or break a deal, as Karen Goodman, a managing director at Financo, recalls. She lost a deal with one retailer after showing up wearing a competitor's shoes. Unfortunately for the investment bankers who pay thousands of dollars out of pocket for these clothes and accessories, wearing the gear isn't a guarantee that you'll get the deal. Rough. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Soe Zeya TunMasterCard Inc, the world's second-largest debit and credit card company, sees business booming from selling data to retailers, banks and governments on spending patterns found in the payments it processes, a top executive told Reuters. MasterCard, which handles payments for 2 billion cardholders and tens of millions of merchants, uses that information to generate real-time data on consumer trends, available more quickly that regular government statistics. "It is an incredibly fast growing area for us," Ann Cairns, who heads MasterCard's business outside North America, said in an interview, stressing that the company respects cardholder privacy, using anonymous data rather than personal information. MasterCard does not give figures for its information services products but "other revenues", which include the sale of data, grew 22 percent in the first quarter of 2014 to $341 million, outpacing the growth of total revenue dominated by payments processing, which rose 14 percent to $2.177 billion. Cairns said clients for the data include retailers, banks and governments, with MasterCard tailoring it to their needs. "Retailers are fantastic at using the data they have available about how people shop in their store, how their inventory turns over, but what they don't know is what happens outside their store," she said. "The data we've got is ubiquitous across the whole market. We can help retailers see what they need to do to capture more sales." Cairns, 57, a statistician by training who joined MasterCard in 2011 after helping manage the disposal of Lehman Brothers assets in Europe, revels in the insights real-time card data can provide, such as London's popularity as the world's top travel destination and a rise in spending on experiences such as eating out or going on holiday rather than shopping in stores. MasterCard has recorded a spike in spending in Brazil on groceries and a drop in spending on luxury goods as the price of food has risen ahead of the World Cup, she said, the kind of insight valued by companies such as Nike and Adidas that are hoping to sell $300 soccer boots during the competition. While MasterCard expands in "big data", Cairns sees no slowdown in its traditional business of processing payments, with plenty of potential for growth as 85 percent of consumer transactions are still made by cash or cheque. "Moving money and doing it safely and securely is so deeply cared about by so many people around the world that it will be a business that has fantastic value now and for years to come," said Cairns, who previously worked at Citigroup and ABN Amro. London-based Cairns, whose division accounts for 60 percent of MasterCard's business, said the expansion of e-commerce and emerging markets is driving growth, noting that 2.5 billion people are still without access to financial services. She predicted that shoppers in many developing economies will leapfrog plastic cards and go direct to payment via smartphone - adding MasterCard is providing "digital wallet" technology to retailers and banks and does not see their own moves into the payments field as a competitive threat. She also played down the challenge from other new rivals such as Kenya's money transfer service M-Pesa, owned by Safaricom, and eBay's online payments unit PayPal, which is trying to move into physical transactions. "We run at such a sub-infrastructure level around the world. It is very difficult to replicate our network," she said, adding that M-Pesa had built a branch network to receive and make payments in Kenya, but that would not work in countries where there is more established financial infrastructure. "Most counties in the world have ATM networks and point of sale networks. Because they are so ubiquitous, that model won't fly," she said. Meanwhile, MasterCard is entrenching its technology in other emerging markets, for example developing a biometrics-based card used for benefits payments in South Africa and working with the Nigeria government on a pilot to overlay payment technology on a new national identity card.   (Reporting by Emma Thomasson, editing by Louise Heavens) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Rebecca CookGoldman Sachs CEO Lloyd Blankfein had a long chat with Charlie Rose last night on Bloomberg TV, and a portion of the interview was dedicated to something you've probably imagined but will probably never do — borrowing money from Warren Buffett. You'll recall that during the darkest days of the financial crisis, Buffett loaned Goldman $5 billion. Not a lot of money for either side all things considered, but certainly a risk considering the times. For his trouble, the bank gave Berkshire Hathaway warrants to buy 43.5 million Goldman Sachs common shares at $115. Buffett made more than $3 billion off this deal by the time it was all said and done last year. That's when he gave up his option to purchase more shares in exchange for a stake in Goldman. Back to last night: "So you took $5 billion of his money, didn't you," Rose asked Blankfein. "I borrowed it, yes," Blankfein responded. "I wish I had taken it, but unfortunately, I had to give it back." Blankfein went on to say that negotiations lasted 35 seconds. Buffett outlined the terms — something Goldman was in no position to do — and they were "reasonable" anyway. "But, I mean, why did you make the deal," asked Rose, "because you needed the money or you needed the idea of his confidence?" "I needed both. The fact of the matter is a number of people came to us after," said Blankfein. "...now, this was -- this was the week after Lehman Brothers when everybody was fretting about whether the capital markets were open. And this was before TARP. And we did a transaction with Warren Buffett... And the very next day did a common equity deal in the market so the markets were open to us. And with Warren's money, we got more than just money. We got the validation of somebody who's regarded as a terrific -- as a terrific investor and somebody who knew our firm....People called us up afterwards and said, "Gee, I would have done that." That would have been great, but with you, I would have just gotten money. With Warren, I got something that was more important." Watch the full interview below:  FREE AppDownload
Charlie RoseBeing the CEO of Goldman Sachs sounds stressful. Lloyd Blankfein called himself "a highly functional paranoid" on Charlie Rose last night.    "...when the phone rings too late at night or too early in the morning I'm going, "Oh, my God, what happened?" He continued: "...I spend about -- I have the unhappy life of having to spend about 98 percent of my time worried about the 2 percent worst contingencies."  Here's a partial transcript:  ... Lloyd Blankfein: Well, I'm in the risk management business, so I don't take it for granted that I can see behind -- I don't think I can see four inches into the future.  I'd say that most of my -- Charlie Rose: [laughs] Yeah, but your firm has a reputation of being pretty good at understanding the future and being able to make some analysis as to about what risks to take. Lloyd Blankfein: Well, I'll confess to you that what I think we aspire to is less foresee the future and more be a great contingency planner because -- and sometimes you contingency plan really well and you can respond very fast to what's happening because you thought through all the possibilities, you can get off the mark so quickly it looks like you false started, it looks like you anticipated the start when all you've really done was listen so closely and knew what you were going to do that you got off the mark quickly.  I think it's hard enough to -- I think it's hard enough to predict the present.  You know, think about it, perspective, it's very hard to step out of your context and see what is happening.  I have views about the future but I will tell you we're not in the – you wouldn't be a very good risk manager if you let what you think was going to happen have too great an influence on what you plan for and protect it against.  What we really do is we really contingency plan, what might happen, what could happen. Charlie Rose: What is your core competence? Lloyd Blankfein: Personally? Charlie Rose: Yes. Lloyd Blankfein: You know, I think I am -- I think I have -- I am a highly functional paranoid. Charlie Rose:[laughs] Lloyd Blankfein: And if I'm -- if I've taken some -- if I've overstated [unintelligible] highly functional part, I'm sure I'm a paranoid. Charlie Rose: [laughs] Paranoid about what? Lloyd Blankfein: Well, I have to worry about stuff, you know, every -- listen, when the phone rings too late at night or too early in the morning I'm going, "Oh, my God, what happened?" Charlie Rose: "I don't want to answer it." Lloyd Blankfein: "What is somebody --" no, I have to answer. And, in fact, if it stopped ringing I'd call everybody I knew at work to find out what I missed. Charlie Rose: [laughs] Lloyd Blankfein: No, I'm -- you know, I spend about -- I have the unhappy life of having to spend about 98 percent of my time worried about the 2 percent worst contingencies. Perhaps that's why sometimes he prays for a rainy weekend so he can just lie on the couch.  Watch below:   FREE AppDownload
Don McCullough/flickrStocks are set to open lower, with Dow futures down 67 points (0.4%), S&amp;P 500 futures down 9 points (0.5%), and Nasdaq futures down 17 points (0.5%). U.S. stocks are taking their lead from international markets, which are also lower, with Germany's DAX down 0.9% and London's FTSE down 0.5%. The biggest story of the day is from the U.S. political arena, as Republican House Majority Leader Eric Cantor lost his primary election in Virginia last night. Its one of the most surprising losses in recent U.S. politics, and may spell bad news for Cantor's supporters on Wall Street.  Treasuries edged up for the second session in the last 10 days. There were no major economic reports from the U.S. this morning. In Europe, unemployment in the U.K. fell to a 5-year low of 6.6%.  In corporate news, touchscreen maker Synaptics is up 19% after announcing plans to acquire Renesas SP Drivers for $475 million. The company also raised its fourth quarter revenue outlook to $300 million to $310 million from $275 million to $295 million.  Beauty products retailer Ulta Salon is also up 11% after reporting better than expected first quarter results.  FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsB. Riley &amp; Co's Scott Tilghman cut his RadioShack price target to $0 after the company reported massively disappointing quarterly results.  The chances RadioShack files for bankruptcy are now over 50%, Tilghman said:  "The company continues to burn cash at a rapid rate as steep sales declines persist and cost savings are difficult to achieve. Merchandising changes (30%-40% change by the end of 3Q) and store updates are underway, but the company’s lack of capital and the necessity to move quickly without fully vetting decisions means turnaround hopes seem to rest on crossed fingers rather than hard data. We expect July/August to be very telling as the company will need to build inventory to support back-to-school, which ultimately means the company will have to maintain the support of its vendors, which we think may prove challenging. We think the odds of a bankruptcy filing are now over 50% and therefore are maintaining our Sell rating and cutting our PT to $0 as we view recovery for the company as unlikely." Yesterday, we noted that RadioShack's inability to close stores as quickly as had hoped put it in a precarious position. Tilghman said that the company's amended store closure plan, closing 200 stores per year as opposed to 1,100, won't have any benefit and could actually make matters worse for RadioShack. Tilghman adds that, "given the lack of attention the company has received during the last two years as it burned through $500 million," a bid from a third party, like a private equity firm or another public company, to prevent the company from going into bankruptcy is unlikely. Ahead of the market open, RadioShack shares are down 2%. FREE AppDownload
AP PhotoLast night, when Eric Cantor lost his seat as House Majority Leader, Wall Street lost a buddy. The kind of guy who bankers could hang out with on K-Street, and then take to a steakhouse (Cantor spent $168,637 on them during his campaign, after all). The kind of guy the industry could throw $1.2 million dollars in 2013 and 2014. But perhaps more important than any of that, when Cantor lost, Wall Street was yet again reminded that it faces the horrible prospect of being attacked by populists on the left and the right. Cantor lost to a little-known economics professor and Ayn Rand disciple named Dave Brat. In Brat's victory speech, he might as well have called out The Street by name.  “I will fight to end crony capitalist programs that benefit the rich and powerful,” he said. He made his views clear on the campaign trail as well.  "I am running against Cantor because he does not represent the citizens of the 7th District, but rather large corporations seeking insider deals, crony bailouts and a constant supply of low-wage workers,” he wrote in an op-ed in The Times Dispatch. He went on: "The truth is, Cantor has voted to raise the debt ceiling 10 times... and is the leading force in the House pushing for amnesty for illegal immigrants. He also voted for TARP... The debt is over $17 trillion and the unfunded liabilities are over $127 trillion, all under Cantor’s leadership. Last quarter the economy shrank by 1 percent. We are off course. We need positive free-market leadership." This is "free-market" Tea Party talk,  not "free-market" Wall Street talk. Wall Street loved TARP. It wants a more liberal stance on immigration, and it absolutely does not want another silly, pointless battle over the debt ceiling. Cantor on the other hand. Now that guy was a friend. A source told Politico that he was “one of the few remaining House Republicans who understood the complicated and nuanced issues facing the financial services community." And when Republican Dave Camp turned on the Street over carried interest — a private equity tax loophole — Cantor reportedly went to bat for his friends, attacking Camp. He had to. Cantor was the top recipient of political donations from private equity and the finance industry in 2013 and 2014 according to the Center for Responsive Politics, after all. A few months ago, when all this primary hullabaloo started, it seemed like the Tea Party was dead. Wall Street breathed a sigh of belief. People often forget that the Tea Party and Occupy Wall Street had some very key beliefs in common. Remember in 2011 when people were passing around this Venn Diagram from blogger James Sinclair? howconservativesfrovemeaway.com Now take that all in. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yuri GripasTreasury Secretary Jack LewU.S. Treasury Secretary Jack Lew said on Wednesday the economy was gaining traction but that the lack of progress on wages and employment remains disappointing. In remarks to the New York Economic Club, Lew said that for the high numbers of unemployed, and those whose wages have stagnated, "this hardly feels like a recovery." "The ultimate test for all of us will be how inclusive tomorrow’s economy becomes and how widely our economic gains flow," he said. "The crisis we face today is the need to make sure the economy is expanding fast enough to support a growing middle class." A dismal start to 2014, with businesses hampered by a harsh winter, has given way to optimism about the course of growth for the rest of this year. Lew noted, as well, that political feuding in Washington over health care, the debt ceiling and budget issues has receded. That, he said, should pave the way for a broader discussion about how to tackle structural economic issues - how to spur infrastructure investment, strengthen alternatives to four-year colleges to train workers, and tackle immigration reform as a way to reverse the decline in labor force participation. The drop in participation rates has been one of the more perplexing economic issues to grow out of the recent crisis and recession. Though some of the decline is the result of the aging of the U.S. population, some of it remains unexplained. "We cannot repeal the Baby Boom," Lew said of the large cohort of Americans who are reaching retirement age, "but we can address the resulting decline in the labor force by addressing our outdated, economically backwards immigration system." He said that businesses also needed to "come off the sidelines" and start putting the record stocks of cash held in corporate coffers to work. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jonathan Ernst House Majority Leader Eric Cantor's stunning loss Tuesday night to Tea Party-aligned challenger Dave Brat figures to embolden grassroots conservatives on multiple fronts. Deal-making is out. Immigration reform is dead, at least this year. And it could mean an "ugly" fight over raising the nation's debt ceiling when it comes up again next spring, analyst Greg Valliere said Wednesday.  "Forget about any other deal-making; an ugly, market-rattling debt ceiling fight now looms in March of 2015," Valliere said in a research note. Cantor's loss throws everything out of whack, in an election season that was largely shaping up along a narrative of establishment Republicans striking back against grassroots challengers.  Brat's upset of Cantor will send House leadership scrambling to replace him. It could embolden one of the many members of the House Republican caucus to make a play to join leadership. And it will likely inspire many Tea Party challenges to incumbents.  "Business groups like the Chamber of Commerce were vilified by Cantor's opponent; "crony capitalist" is the new insult. But perhaps the biggest loser is the GOP brand as the House careens further to the far right -- good luck winning the White House in 2016," Valliere wrote. The debt-ceiling fight could become even more pronounced if Republicans recapture control of the U.S. Senate in November. It would give the GOP control of both chambers of Congress, and it would make President Barack Obama's stance of not negotiating over the debt ceiling somewhat untenable. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mian KhursheedA soldier briefs the media as he walk through a cave, which the Pakistan Army said was built and used by the Pakistan Taliban.KABUL (Reuters) - The most pressing challenge awaiting Afghanistan's new leader may not be the worsening violence, fractured U.S. relationship or declining aid, but an international blacklist hanging over the country's banks. At issue: Afghan banks' failure to do enough to combat money laundering and terrorist financing. The Financial Action Task Force (FATF), an international money laundering watchdog, says Afghanistan has failed to implement its recommendations and will be blacklisted unless laws that meet global norms are passed before it meets on June 23-27. This could cut off its banks from the global financial system, disrupting up to $10 billion worth of annual imports by the time the next president takes power. If the blacklist is enforced, all sectors of the aid-dependent economy will be put under further strain, market players say. "The Afghan economy will be in crisis. It would seriously affect traders, government revenue and even employment," said Afghan International Bank's CEO, Khalil Sediq. The new laws are being rushed through parliament but even if both houses pass them in time, outgoing President Hamid Karzai seems likely to block their passage, according to banking executives who met him recently. "The president does not want any changes to the law," said one CEO who attended the closed-door meeting. "He believes this threat of blacklisting is another ploy by the West and the U.S. to put pressure on Afghanistan." A spokeswoman for Karzai's office declined to provide details from the meeting but said the president's decision would be made in the national interest. Karzai's final months in power have been marked by a growing hostility towards the United States, particularly his refusal to sign a security deal allowing U.S. troops to stay in the country beyond a 2014 deadline for foreign combat troops to leave. The drawdown of foreign forces coincides with an upsurge in insurgent attacks over the past 18 months. The last two men in the race to succeed Karzai have vowed to repair international ties, including signing the bilateral security agreement, but the final results of the second round will not emerge until late July at the earliest - over a month past the FATF deadline. Afghanistan's nascent economy is already under massive stress, with domestic revenue down sharply this year, and international institutions forecasting GDP growth to fall from a high of about 14 percent in 2012 to about 3.2 percent in 2014. At the same time, foreign donors, who fund the lion's share of the budget, are pulling back amid concerns over rampant government corruption and growing insecurity as foreign combat forces pack their bags. Many Western banks already refuse to deal with Afghanistan because of weak regulation, fearing they may inadvertently be embroiled in money laundering or terrorist financing. Afghan banks route payments through Turkey or China instead, but this loophole has been gradually closing since FATF downgraded Afghanistan to "dark grey" in February. Turkish banks have moved to close Afghan accounts and last month Chinese banks halted dollar transactions with most Afghan banks for reasons that remain unclear. Chinese banks had been used as a gateway by Afghan banks to process dollar transactions with other parts of the world to pay for imports of everything from household goods to industrial machinery to university tuition. The Afghan Chamber of Commerce and Industries says some commodity prices have risen 10-15 percent due to the imminent threat hanging over the banking system. "The prices of goods and products will increase because traders will have to pass on the higher prices," said Afghan United Bank CEO Hedayatullah Yahya. The impact could be greater still if traders fail to quickly negotiate deals to pay for orders in other currencies as shortages of some staples, like cooking oil, could hit as early as July, the start of the holy Muslim month of Ramadan. "I used to route payments through banks in Afghanistan to import cooking oil from Turkey and Indonesia, but that is no longer possible because banks are not transferring my money," said one trader with imports of around $1 million per month. How quickly the blacklist may be lifted under a new government is unclear. "It's a million dollar question, " said Shehzad Haider, the former chief executive of Afghan United Bank, who is now based in Pakistan. "Both candidates will have to pass this amended anti-money laundering law at the earliest. They have no other choice." (Additional reporting by Mirwais Harooni; Editing by Maria Golovnina and Jeremy Laurence) FREE AppDownload
Just because you were able to schedule a phone interview over an in-person, doesn't mean it's time to slack off. Here are the things you need to keep in mind while you take the call. Produced by Justin Gmoser. Follow BI Video: On Facebook    
AFPSouth Stream, the multi-billion-euro pipeline intended to bring Siberian gas to Europe, has become an economic pawn in the Ukraine crisis, analysts say, after Bulgaria halted work under pressure from Brussels and Washington. The pipeline project backed by Russian giant Gazprom Italy's ENI and France's EDF, is intended to bring an annual 63 billion cubic metres of Russian natural gas to Europe. But following pressure from the US and Europe, Sofia announced over the weekend that it is halting preparations on its part of the pipeline, which was to begin construction in the middle of the year. Analysts say South Stream has essentially become a political and economic pawn in the EU-Russia standoff over Ukraine, but that it will not be blocked forever. Resumption of work on will depend upon finding a solution to the unrest in Ukraine and on the ongoing EU-brokered Russia-Ukraine gas talks, they say. Moscow and Kiev are currently engaged in tough negotiations in Brussels to avert a gas cut-off to Ukraine if it fails to cover a debt of nearly $4.4 billion (3.2 billion euros). "It depends if there is a political solution in Ukraine. If there is a political solution then I think they can find a regulatory solution for the pipeline," said Jonathan Stern of the Oxford Institute for Energy Studies. This was a reference to Brussels' argument that Bulgaria might be breaking EU rules if it went ahead with the project. "South Stream is being used to nudge Russia to make concessions in the Ukraine crisis in general and notably in the gas talks," said Gerhard Mangott, a Russia expert at Austria's University of Innsbruck. For Martin Vladimirov from the Sofia-based Centre for the Study of Democracy: "It is too early to speak about a freeze." "A big Gazprom-EU agreement might be expected in the coming days," he noted. "The question is if Europe's geostrategic interests will take the upper hand over the purely economic interests of the South Stream partners such as Italy's ENI, France's EDF and the big consumers from Germany's chemical industry." Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov lashed out at Brussels on Monday for pressuring Bulgaria on South Stream, claiming the pipeline was being used to seek revenge on Moscow for the Ukraine crisis. "Sometimes Brussels is guided by a desire to punish, a desire to take revenge," Lavrov said. The EU already urged in mid-April that South Stream be scrapped as a rebuke to Moscow for its actions in Ukraine. But it has refrained from pushing for an outright cancellation and has instead engaged in a legal showdown with Gazprom and Bulgaria over regulatory details of the project. "The EU wants to pause before being seen to allow a new piece of infrastructure which might substantially increase Russian exports to Europe," Stern noted. In a sign that the project was far from dead however, Serbian Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic said Monday that Belgrade was continuing work on South Stream as planned, despite a report that it might follow in Sofia's footsteps. Even Bulgaria's Economy and Energy Minister Dragomir Stoynev said Tuesday that "South Stream seems quite irreversible as a European project." "The question is not if but how exactly it will be implemented," he added. The EU's poorest member and a country that relies almost entirely on Russia for energy, Bulgaria has been a staunch supporter of South Stream, which it sees as vital in diversifying its gas routes -- which currently run via Ukraine, causing several supply issues in the past. Neither ENI, nor France's EDF have issued comments on the project's hold-up. But sources close to the French company said its long-term engagement in South Stream was not in doubt. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yuriko NakaoBloomberg is reporting German conglomerate Siemens has approached Mitsubishi Heavy, a unit of Japan's Mitsubishi, about coming on as a partner in its bid for French firm Alstom's energy business. That business was initially sought after by GE. But a minor rebellion in the French government scuttled GE's overtures, allowing Siemens to come in as a rival that some in France find more favorable, since it would keep control of Alstom on the continent. But GE is still very much in the running. "French Industry Minister Arnaud Montebourg had initially said he would favor a proposal by Siemens," Bloomberg's Jacqueline Simmons, Aaron Kirchfeld and Alex Webb report. "He has since acknowledged that GE’s offer is much improved after the U.S. company promised to create 1,000 French jobs. Siemens has meanwhile promised to guarantee French jobs for three years from completion of any deal." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jonathan AlcornGaming enthusiasts watch a Nintendo Super Smash Bros. invitational tournament at the 2014 Electronic Entertainment Expo, known as E3, in Los Angeles, California June 10, 2014.  Good morning! Here's what you need to know.  Eric Cantor Loses Primary. The man many believed could succeed John Boehner as speaker of the House lost to a conservative economics professor in the Virginia primaries. BI's Brett LoGiurato says immigration reform is likely dead. But commentators say it probably doesn't portend much else for November. Stocks Sink Worldwide. In Europe, Germany's DAX was down most at 0.8%. Most stocks in Asia were lower — only Japan's Nikkei was up. U.S. futures were down.  Lufthansa Shock Profit Warning. In an unscheduled announcement, Lufthansa has cut its 2014 operating profit to €1 billion, and its 2015 target to €2 billion. The German airline cited weaker revenues across the board, rising costs tied especially to pilot strikes, and the devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar. Shares fell 13%.   Brent Breaks Out. Oil futures topped $110 a barrel ahead of Wednesday's OPEC meeting. "There’s a strong market consensus that OPEC will maintain the current 30.0 mmbpd quota," Citi's Timothy Evans writes, "suggesting the contest following the summit will be over just what the implications will be for prices." We wrote yesterday why the deteriorating situation in Iraq appears ominous for oil exports.  UK Unemployment Hits Five-Year Low. The unemployment rate hit 6.6% for the period from February through April.  London Uber Strike. Up to 12,000 hacks are expected to demonstrate in Trafalgar Square over the red-hot start-ups incursion into the UK. Google's Energy Push. Google plants to invest in tools that help utilities deliver electricity more efficiently, Bloomberg said. EU Apple And Starbucks Probe. The EU is launching a probe into whether certain EU countries gave unfair tax credits to major American firms.  Japan Pension Fund Coming Alive. The Wall Street Journal says Japan's $1.26 trillion public pension fund will likely begin ramping up investment into stocks and foreign bonds, "potentially sending tens of billions of dollars into new markets." No major data. We get the monthly Treasury Budget report at 2 p.m. FREE AppDownload
AFP / Omar TorresWorkers remove the drilling tool with a sample of the marine seabed at La Muralla IV exploration oil rig, operated by Mexican company 'Grupo R' and working for Mexico's state-owned oil company PEMEX.Mexico's senate began discussions Tuesday on enabling legislation to implement historic constitutional reform opening the country's oil industry to foreign investment for the first time since 1938. President Enrique Pena Nieto had already signed the controversial measure after it was approved by Congress and ratified by a majority of states, but lawmakers must now pass "secondary" laws to implement it. That process began Tuesday with the energy and legislative affairs committees holding an extraordinary session on the basis of a draft drawn up by two of the country's leading parties, the Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI) and the conservative National Action Party (PAN). Foreign oil giants are keen to get a glimpse of the legislation because it will detail how the contract system will work. But a third party, the left-wing Democratic Revolution Party (PRD), vehemently opposes the reforms and issued a statement Tuesday reiterating its stance. It is hoping to hold a referendum in 2015 to overturn the measures and has accused the ruling PRI of "political opportunism" by seizing on the public's passion for football and scheduling debates during the month-long World Cup that kicks off Thursday. The clash of calendars sparked a political storm, with opponents of the legislation crying foul. The government contends the reform will allow for modernization and more economic autonomy for state oil company Pemex. Mexico's oil production has seen a significant drop over the past decade. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsRob told me JB was dead. JB was my best friend growing up. We sat next to each other on the bus. After school we’d play ping pong or pinball or monopoly or ride bikes. Every single day we did this for eight years. Then we drifted apart. Rob said, The last time I spoke to him he sounded like a ghost. It was like there was nothing there, Rob said. I hadn’t seen JB in 20 years. He dropped out of college, Rob said, and never really had a job. His parents gave him money to live. He didn’t want to do anything. He changed his phone number every few weeks, Rob said. So he was hard to keep in touch with. I didn’t understand. Why did he change his number every few weeks? He’d meet a girl, and then a few weeks later he’d get tired of her but not want to deal with it. He’d change his number so the girl couldn’t reach him, Rob said. And he moved a lot. He had no Facebook page, no internet presence, it was hard to track him down, Rob said. And it’s true. I had never found him on the Internet. JB hurt his leg a few years ago, Rob said, and had no insurance because he never had a job. So got addicted to painkillers. He was into the drug scene, Rob said. So no job, drifting phone numbers, a hazy identity, drug, nerve damage, pain killers. One day he never woke up, Rob said. He was 39. I don’t feel sad about this. People die. I haven’t seen him since we were 18 and on graduation day. But I wonder about one thing Rob said. “He was like a ghost the last time I spoke with him.” We know when the body and mind are giving up. We know when spirit is exhausted. When the emotions don’t care. He never had anything he wanted to do, Rob said. Is that all it is? Do we just need something to do? Something that we want to scratch just a tiny bit so we continue one more day? We don’t have to save the world. Or invent warm ice. Or time travel. Or even have a passion or a purpose. When I was dead broke and crying I wanted to die just so my kids could have my life insurance policy. What got me to get up and go again? And then later, when it happened again. And then again. Why didn’t JB do that? I call it “the push”. You’re riding the bicycle up the hill all the time in life. Everything in life wants you to decay. To be subjugated. To be violated. To be tired. To become a ghost. To roll back down the hill just when you thought you were close to the top. It’s fucking tiring to live. What can give us THE PUSH? I don’t know. For me, today, it’s just this post. Some days, it’s to see my 11 year old smile. Sometimes, I just want to take a walk. Or help Claudia. Or do something fun and creative. What’s your PUSH today? A little bit, every day, compounds. A little push today turns into a big life tomorrow. My one requirement: I have to give something. I have to enjoy it. Else, it’s too draining. It’s a shit stain. I slip back on the hill. A deep breath. You can do it, I tell myself. One more turn of the pedals. THE PUSH! Get over the hill! I want to live. FREE AppDownload
The political world was rocked last night when House Majority Leader Eric Cantor unexpectedly went down in flames in his primary against Tea Party-backed candidate David Brat. Despite outraising his opponent by about 25-to-1, Eric Cantor's position on immigration and other perceived conservative sellouts cost him his seat. So who's David Brat? Well, it turns out he's an economics professor at Randolph Macon College, and on his personal website he even has a picture of John Maynard Keynes: David Brat The guy on the other side is Hayek, so he has both sides of the spectrum represented. One look at Brat's research shows he has some interesting areas of study. Here are a few titles of his research: Interestingly, the guy Brat will be up against in November, the Democrat, is a professor at the same college. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Michael MacSweeneyApple Operations International, a subsidiary of Apple Inc, is seen in Hollyhill, Cork, in the south of Ireland in this October 6, 2011 file photo.DUBLIN (Reuters) - The European Commission will launch a formal investigation on Wednesday into Apple Inc's &lt;AAPL.O&gt; tax arrangements in Ireland, Irish state broadcaster RTE reported, without naming its source. The EU's competition authority said last year that it was looking into corporate tax arrangements in several member states and had requested information from Ireland. Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for competition issues at the Commission, declined to comment on the RTE report. Ireland's finance ministry said it had not been informed of any investigation. Irish Prime Minister Enda Kenny declined to comment on whether the Commission might be preparing to open an investigation but said he was confident of the legality of Ireland's tax system. "We believe that our legislation ... is very strong and ethically implemented and we will defend that very robustly," Kenny told journalists in Dublin. A U.S. Senate subcommittee investigation revealed last year that Apple had cut billions from its tax bill by declaring companies registered in the Irish city of Cork as not tax resident in any country. Senator Carl Levin, chairman of the subcommittee, said the Apple structure represented "the Holy Grail of tax avoidance." Apple in the United States entered into deals with the Irish subsidiaries whereby the Irish units received the rights to certain intellectual property that were subsequently licensed to other group companies, helping ensure almost no tax was reported in countries such as Britain or France. Apple's Irish arrangement helped it achieve an effective tax rate of just 3.7 percent on its non-U.S. income last year, its annual report shows – a fraction of the prevailing rates in its main overseas markets. The focus of the investigation will likely be tax regimes that are favorable to certain companies, including Apple, rather than the companies themselves. Technology companies such as Google Inc &lt;GOOGL.O&gt; and Microsoft Corp &lt;MSFT.O&gt; have cut their overseas tax rates to single digits by establishing Dublin-registered subsidiaries, which they have designated as tax resident in Bermuda. An Apple representative had no comment. The company has previously said it complied with the law. "We pay all the taxes we owe - every single dollar," Apple Chief Executive Tim Cook testified to U.S. Senate committee investigators last year. Apple shares ended up 0.6 percent at $94.25 on the Nasdaq on Tuesday. Analysts say that the investigation is unlikely to have a major impact on Apple's share price. Piper Jaffray analyst Gene Munster said investors are currently "hyper-focused" on new product speculation. "I don't think it will be a problem unless Apple did something illegal," said Munster. (Reporting by Conor Humphries; Additional reporting by Barbara Lewis in Brussels and Christina Farr in San Francisco and; Editing by Louise Heavens and David Evans) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ralph OrlowskiLufthansa shares were down more than 13% in European trading Wednesday after the German airline unexpectedly announced a profit warning. The firm cut its operating profit to €1 billion for 2014 and to €2 billion for 2015, citing weaker revenues across the board, rising costs tied to pilot strikes, and the devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar. European stocks were lower across the board, with Germany's DAX down most at 0.8%. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/HandoutLONDON (Reuters) - Canny caution or bumbling oversight, the world's richest people have retained huge stockpiles of zero-yielding cash throughout the recent surge in financial asset prices. Their persistence may have, counter-intuitively, prolonged the buoyancy of those very assets in the process - helping to inflate the outsize wealth of the super-rich further. With the debate about rising inequality re-invigorated this year by French economist Thomas Piketty's best-selling book on ballooning wealth gaps, the spending and savings behavior of the so-called "plutonomists" has rarely seen more scrutiny or had more influence on the economy and markets. Political clamor for redress through greater taxation of asset incomes, rents, gifts and inheritances may well build. But few expect much change in the rising wealth of the richest 1 percent of households or the 0.1 percent deemed 'high net-worth individuals.' Yet as stock markets barreled to record highs - with the MSCI's all-country index up almost 30 percent over the past 18 months - investment advisors estimate up to 40 percent of their money remains un-invested and is still parked in deposits. As the latest equity market surge began early last year, a benchmark survey by CapGemeni and RBC Wealth Management had average cash or deposit holdings among those global wealth investors at almost 28 percent - more than the 26 percent held in equity or some 20 percent in real estate. Defining the richest 12 million savers as those with more than $1 million in investible assets - excluding their primary residences and collectibles - the survey's high cash holdings may simply reflect a preference for banking large slices of wealth rather than risking it in volatile markets. And, to be sure, returns on the 70 percent of other investments would have paid handsomely enough anyway. The richest have always tended to hold relatively high levels of cash. Liquid holdings are preferred for wealth protection, tax-avoiding mobility, inheritances or gifts. Yet the survey's cash levels are more than twice the levels registered in the equivalent survey from the height of the pre-crisis go-go years in 2006 and 2007. And with near-zero interest rates meaning deposits are losing money adjusted for inflation and with broad market volatility at multi-year lows, the caution is remarkable. What's more, other surveys and anecdotal evidence suggest cash holdings remain elevated or have actually risen over the past year. A survey of more than 4,000 rich investors - those with more than $200,000 to invest - conducted at the turn of this year for asset managers Legg Mason showed 26.5 percent held in cash. An estimate by Wells Fargo puts cash holdings among the wealthiest clients as high as 40 percent. Brian Jacobsen, portfolio strategist at Wells Fargo Asset Management, said equity markets rallied so quickly after the credit crash that by the time many of these individual investors felt comfortable enough going back in, both equities and bonds had reached levels they felt were unsustainable. Retirement and other demographics added to that caution. "I can't tell you how many times I go to client events where people say after a 10 percent correction, then I'm going to allocate," Jacobsen said. "But you might be waiting for Godot. "Precisely because there are so many people waiting for that pullback, it may become a self-destructing expectation. You see a five percent move like we did have and people just jump in - and you don't ever get to the 10 percent move down."  Piketty's book envisages soaring inequality and wealth gaps as returns on assets outstrip economic growth to such an extent that the ratio of private wealth to national income rises to 1910 peaks of 500 percent by 2030 from about 440 percent now. To the extent that asset inflation has been stoked by the easy-money policies designed to stabilize the world economy after the crash, central banks find themselves squarely in the firing line for fueling inequality for the sake of job creation. The cash-hoarding behavior of the rich tends to blunt that accusation. Yet, how central bank policies in turn affect that behavior may still have far-reaching consequences. For a start, a headlong dash by wealthy investors to pumped- up markets at this juncture could well create the sort of bubble they and central banks may have good reason to fear. Already the top 0.1 percent of the U.S. spectrum own some 23 percent of U.S. wealth - the equivalent of bottom 90 percent put together. According to the U.S. Labour Department, the top 20 percent of the income bracket has the average pre-tax income equal to the sum of the bottom four quintiles together and average expenditures of the bottom 60 percent combined. Bank of America Merrill Lynch strategist Ajay Kapur coined the term 'plutonomy' in 2005 when he was at Citi and describing economies dominated by a growing but small cohort of super rich. He reckons any easing of post-crisis caution among the plutonomists could have a profound effect on the world economy. "If plutonomists get over the shock of the global financial crisis, take comfort in their vastly expanded wealth from QE-driven asset inflation - and reduce their saving rate that doubled to 38.2 percent after ... 2008 - the U.S. current account deficit could expand again - a big positive for emerging markets."   (Additional reporting by Chris Vellacott. Editing by Larry King) FREE AppDownload
The US Dollar’s status as a reserve currency seems to be a perennial concern for many people these days.  I think this concern is often dramatically overstated.  I was reminded of this point as I was reviewing the slides from Jeff Gundlach’s presentation yesterday which showed the following chart: DoubleLine As you can see, no one maintains reserve currency status forever.  That shouldn’t be remotely surprising.  The global economy is dynamic and market shares shift.  And at the end of the day that’s what reserve status is really all about.  Think about it – nations accumulate reserves of US dollars today because the US economy is the dominant player in global trade. Of course, the US Dollar isn’t the only currency that nations maintain reserves of.  The Euro is also a major reserve currency and the Yuan is fast becoming a major reserve currency.  But since the USA produces 22% of all world output it happens to play a particularly special role in the global economy.  By virtue of being the largest economy in the world the accumulation of US dollar denominated financial assets happens to dominate the global financial system.  It’s sort of like being the top market share producer of a particular product in a particular industry.  Other entities accumulate your products because you’re the top producer.   And that changes over time.  Market shares change and regimes shift with the evolving economy. So, will the USA lose its reserve currency status at some point?  Yes.  In fact, it’s already starting to lose its reserve status to Europe and China.  Will it be the end of the world and will it cause everyone to suddenly ditch the dollar?  Probably not.  It just means the USA will produce a lower proportion of global output and therefore, as a matter of accounting, the rest of the world will hold a lower percentage of US dollar denominated financial assets as a percentage of global output.  It’s not the end of the world.  It’s just a sign that market shares change and when you’re #1, well, there’s only one direction to go. Read more at http://pragcap.com/how-much-longer-will-the-dollar-remain-the-reserve-currency-of-the-world#Hf32B3eFTdcXt9B0.99 FREE AppDownload
flickr: klaus.dominik The data out of the UK continues to be hot. The unemployment rate just fell to a 5-year low of 6.6%. Here's some stats from the UK's Office of National Statistics: Comparing February to April 2014 with November 2013 to January 2014, there was a large increase in employment and a large fall in unemployment. There was a further fall in the number of economically inactive people aged from 16 to 64. These changes continue the general direction of movement over the past two years. There were 30.54 million people in work, 345,000 more than for November 2013 to January 2014 and 780,000 more than a year earlier. 72.9% of people aged from 16 to 64 were in work, up from 72.3% for November 2013 to January 2014 and up from 71.5% a year earlier. The latest figure of 72.9%, for February to April 2014, is 0.1 percentage point lower than before the downturn of 2008-09. There were 2.16 million unemployed people, 161,000 fewer than for November 2013 to January 2014 and 347,000 fewer than a year earlier. The unemployment rate was 6.6% of the economically active population (those in work plus those seeking and available to work), down from 7.2% for November 2013 to January 2014 and down from 7.8% a year earlier. FREE AppDownload
Business InsiderGood morning. Markets are in the red. The selling isn't too dramatic — nothing's too dramatic these days — but it is noticeable. Germany's DAX is off 0.46%. UK stocks are off 0.33% (meanwhile UK unemployment has just fallen to a 5-year low of 6.6%). US futures are down over 0.1%. In Asia, Japanese stocks gained 0.5%. We continued to be in the midst of a very slow week for economic data. FREE AppDownload
