Almost every corporate profit margin chart you'll see since the financial crisis will share one characteristic: they go up. Ever since the financial crisis, corporations have managed to deliver robust profit growth by offsetting the drag of weak sales growth with widening profit margins. These fatter profit margins come from cutting costs, which usually means getting more productivity out of a fewer number of workers. With profit margins at historic highs, there are plenty of very smart folks warning that these margins will revert to a mean, which could also come with tumbling profits. However, Morgan Stanley's Adam Parker joins a handful of experts who believe profit margins, at least for those companies listed in the stock markets, are on a long-term upswing. While most margin bulls focus on company specific structural changes like lower tax rates, falling interest costs, and less pressure on wage costs due to the waning of labor unions, Parker focuses 1) the resilience of the mega-cap behemoths and 2) the fact that margin mean reversion for small-cap companies mean rising margins. From Parker (emphasis ours): ...Why do we think margins can remain elevated? This will become clear if you look at net margins for US companies broken into four cohorts by market capitalization (Exhibit 12). Mega cap companies (the largest 50 by size) have been able to pull their margins away from the smaller companies through globalization, productivity, scale, cost of capital, and taxes, among other reasons. We argue against frameworks that call for near-term mean reversion and base equity return algorithms off the concept of overearning. Why? The margins for the mega cap cohort in the last two downturns of 2001 and 2008 were well above the HIGHEST margins achieved during the 1974-1994 period. To us, this is a powerful indication that the mega cap cohort is unlikely to mean revert back to the 1970s to 1990s average level. Further, what probably isn’t universally known is that small cap margins are below their long-term average today. If our house view is correct – that this turns out to be one of the longest expansions ever – then we don’t see why small caps that still have low margins can’t also ascend over the next several years. In the end, our suspicion is that margins remain elevated for some time. As noted above, mega caps benefit from globalization, productivity scale, cost of capital, and lower taxes, among other phenomena, that have led to this 20-year trend of increased profitability vs. small companies. Like others, Parker also acknowledges that companies have moved a lot of their operations to low-cost countries. Additionally, many of the biggest corporations are like Google, which carry no inventory and therefore their cost structures are very lean. But Parker nevertheless acknowledges that margins can't just go straight up forever. "Ultimately, however, it is likely that margins will experience some mean reversion, and that is our base case on a ten-year view, but we do not think margins will revert all the way back to the long-term average," he writes. FREE AppDownload
It appears it is time for some Hillary-Clinton-esque backtracking and Liesman-esque translation of just what the former Federal Reserve Chief really meant. As The Wall Street Journal reports, the Fed chief from 1987 to 2006 says the Fed's bond-buying program fell short of its goals, and had a lot more to add. Mr. Greenspan’s comments to the Council on Foreign Relations came as Fed officials were meeting in Washington, D.C., and expected to announce within hours an end to the bond purchases. He said the bond-buying program was ultimately a mixed bag. He said that the purchases of Treasury and mortgage-backed securities did help lift asset prices and lower borrowing costs. But it didn’t do much for the real economy. “Effective demand is dead in the water” and the effort to boost it via bond buying “has not worked,” said Mr. Greenspan. Boosting asset prices, however, has been “a terrific success.”... He observed that history shows central banks can only prick bubbles at great economic cost. “It’s only by bringing the economy down can you burst the bubble,” and that was a step he wasn't willing to take while helming the Fed, he said.... The question of when officials should begin raising interest rates is “one of those questions I cannot answer,” Mr. Greenspan said. He also said, “I don’t think it’s possible” for the Fed to end its easy-money policies in a trouble-free manner.... "Recent episodes in which Fed officials hinted at a shift toward higher interest rates have unleashed significant volatility in markets, so there is no reason to suspect that the actual process of boosting rates would be any different, Mr. Greenspan said.... “I think that real pressure is going to occur not by the initiation by the Federal Reserve, but by the markets themselves,” Mr. Greenspan he said. And finally - while CNBC's audience is told what a terrible thing gold is, "The Maestro", having personally created the financial cataclysm the world finds itself in following a lifetime of belief in fiat, Keynesian ideology and "fixing" one bubble with an even greater and more destructive asset bubble, has suddenly had an epiphany and now has a very different message from the one he preached during his decades as the head of the Fed. Mr. Greenspan said gold is a good place to put money these days given its value as a currency outside of the policies conducted by governments. What Greenspan failed to add is that it is thanks to his disastrous policies (subsequently adopted by Bernanke and Yellen) that gold is the "place to put money." And now, paging Scott Nations. FREE AppDownload
SamsungAnalysts said the Galaxy S5 smartphone launched in April did not sell well.SEOUL, South Korea (AP) — Samsung Electronics Co. says its third-quarter income has plunged 49 percent to the lowest level in nearly three years as its handset business slows down. Samsung said Thursday its net income for the July-September quarter was 4.2 trillion won ($4 billion), a sharp decline from 8.2 trillion won a year earlier. The income was the lowest since 2012 but above market expectations. Analysts polled by Factset expected 3.7 trillion won income. Sales fell 20 percent to 47.4 trillion won while operating income shrank 60 percent to 4.1 trillion won. Samsung warned earlier this month that its handset profit declined despite a marginal shipment increase. Analysts said the Galaxy S5 smartphone launched in April did not sell well while many consumers held off upgrading their phones instead waiting for new iPhones. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. FREE AppDownload
Medical costs rose at an official rate of 1.7% year on year this past September, but the average increase in medical expenses individuals actually paid could easily be far larger. Most importantly, the CPI, as a pure price index, may not reflect the increased cost of living for families who lose employer paid health care coverage. That’s an all too common predicament, given the substantial fraction of part-time jobs created during the current economic recovery. Nor does the CPI make it easy to see how reduced healthcare benefits raise the cost of living for those who still enjoy employer sponsored plans. As Aflac reports, 56% of employers offering health plans hiked the employees’ share of premiums or copays in 2013, and 59% expected to do so in 2014. Furthermore, the Affordable Care Act (ACA, or Obamacare) encourages this sort of cost shifting from employer to employee through its 40% excise taxon “Cadillac” plans.  The BLS does not measure insurance costs directly when compiling CPI-MED, the CPI’s health care component (h/t Doug Short). Instead BLS assumes that insurance costs rise commensurately with the prices of medical goods and services, plus or minus a margin for profit and administrative costs. Since CPI-MED measures changes in medical prices faced by consumers, it calculates changes in net prices charged to consumers after insurers, if any, have paid their share. As individuals and families pay an increased percentage of their healthcare costs, the BLS will account for that by increasing the weight of CPI-MED within the overall CPI; currently CPI-MED accounts for 5.825% of the overall CPI. Increases in the share of medical expense paid by individuals (as opposed to their insurers), will not affect CPI levels.  Therefore, when the BLS re-benchmarks the CPI this coming February, we can probably expect CPI-MED to carry a larger weight than in the past. An increase in the weight would then tell us how much BLS estimates that the average consumer’s medical care expenses increased as a percent of his or her total expenses.  To state the obvious: when a family loses their coverage, they could easily go from paying a $300 monthly share of an employer’s plan, to paying $1,200 or more monthly for a “gold” plan, depending on the parents’ ages and number of children. Alternatively, the family could buy a less expensive plan (or no plan at all), and consequently pay more of their medical bills out of pocket. Again, that shock, if experienced by enough people, will eventually show up in weight changes, but not in the CPI level.  Either way, for many if not most families, the resulting increase in health care costs works out to a double digit percentage increase in total monthly expenses. Increases in deductibles, premiums or copays for those who have employee coverage presumably hurt less, but would also boost the employee’s health care costs over and above this year’s 1.7% increase in CPI-MED. And let’s not talk about those who lose employer paid coverage but whose income is low enough to qualify for the Obamacare insurance premium subsidy. In that situation, one can’t afford the out of pocket cost for much non-emergency treatment, and emergency treatment cost may put one at risk for bankruptcy.  In sum: while the BLS tells us how fast medical costs are rising, the CPI’s headline numbers may not reflect how healthcare costs actually affect the cost of living. If you want to know why many people feel that they are falling behind despite benign official statistics, here’s one place to look.  FREE AppDownload
As news broke on Wednesday that part three of Microsoft's huge multi-phase layoffs had occurred, employees at the company are having mixed feelings. Not surprisingly, all this change "wears on" a lot of Microsoft's employees, said a former employee who left the company shortly before the big layoff was officially announced in July. Remember even before it was announced, employees spent months waiting for news of a layoff as a consequence of the company's $7.2 billion, 25,000-employee acquisition of Nokia. They were initially "shell shocked" by the size of the cuts, although most employees liked new CEO Satya Nadella for the changes he was making, sources told us. But it's not really the layoffs per se dragging employees down. "Constant change is not healthy when you have an organization of over 100,000 people," our source explained. "There's a whole set of people that can't deal with that constant change and at Microsoft there has definitely been a lot to deal with. Remember right before Ballmer left, he announced a bunch of stuff, the One Microsoft strategy, the Nokia acquisition. He had a plan that was to take us through the next few years," the source added. This employee describes Nadella as "awesome" but said that he's now "putting his own plan in place and when you have these transitions and they keep continuing, that sort of thing wears on a lot of people." And this isn't just about if they will keep their job or not. It's also about if the projects they care most about will continue or be cancelled and if their teams and co-workers will change. Most importantly, it's about if they feel their work will be important both to the company and the world. On the other hand, other employees, particularly long-term folks are kind of happy with all this change. Some people feel that "change is good, particularly change that takes you in the right direction," this source said. And right now, it does look like there is a "new" Microsoft going in a better direction. Nadella is striking up partnerships with its former rivals, changing the way products are built, and trying to overhaul the corporate culture.  Competitor-turned-new-partner Salesforce.com CEO Marc Benioff says he's delighted and shocked by the changes.  Although CEO Satya Nadella still has to prove he can make a new direction work, he is starting to better articulate it. He says Microsoft's goal is to "reinvent productivity." That means creating new software and cloud services that work across any mobile device, as well the PC and in the living room. He's defining "productivity" loosely as stuff we accomplish at home and at work. So it's a little hazy as to what our lives will look like once Microsoft reinvents it for us. Some new products in this theme are starting to trickle out. One example is a new tool for Office 365 called "Delve" which sifts through our inboxes and documents hoping to showcase the stuff we really need to see. But the bottom line is that the company is changing, and for many people change is scary.  Microsoft had no comment. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsA kiwi bird.The New Zealand dollar, affectionately known as the "kiwi," is getting crushed in late trade on Wednesday after the Reserve Bank of New Zealand said the kiwi's current level is "unjustified and unsustainable." In its latest policy announcement, the RBNZ said: "Lower commodity prices and increased global financial market volatility have taken some pressure off the New Zealand dollar. However, its current level remains unjustified and unsustainable and continues to constrain growth in the tradables sector. We expect a further significant depreciation." This last sentence is the one that really got the kiwi moving lower, as the RBNZ made clear it wants the kiwi to fall.  The RBNZ also kept its benchmark interest rate unchanged at 3.5%, which was in-line with the market's expectations.  Near 5:00 pm ET on Wednesday, the kiwi was trading below 0.78 against the dollar, down from around 0.795 earlier in the day. The kiwi weakened significantly against the dollar after the Fed's announcement that it would end its QE program this month, and legged lower following the RBNZ's announcement.  So, all in all, the not the biggest monetary policy announcement of the day, but this kind of stuff pings around world markets and is worth taking note of.  Here's the drop in the kiwi today.  FinViz You can read the RBNZ's full statement here » FREE AppDownload
Barclays chief economist in Mexico thinks a 25 basis point rate cut is coming at Banco de Mexico’s meeting on Friday. He’s the lone wolf on this one. While most other economists think the central bank will keep interest rates at 3%, where they’ve been since a 50 basis point rate cut in June, Marco Oviedo, who previously worked as chief economic adviser for the staff of President Felipe Calderon, is forecasting that rates will decrease to 2.75% on Friday. Barclays’ latest weekly economic report included several reasons for the rate cut forecast: Formal employment is up a bit and both IMEF surveys (Mexico’s business surveys on manufacturing and non-manufacturing activities) are at their highest levels since April 2013. However, car production is down, as is retail consumption (5.2% in September from August). This suggests “that the external push could be getting softer while the domestic market might still be fragile.” Further, a contraction in the services sector caused the Mexican GDP proxy, the IGAE index, to decline by 0.2% month-over-month in August. In an interview with Business Insider, Oviedo explained that the services sector and consumption data led him to conclude that the Mexican economy isn’t growing as quickly as many forecasts expected in the second half of the year. “Even with the US growing at a very good pace, the economy [here] is not getting any better,” he said. “Given that the Fed will maintain rates for a long period of time, Mexico has room to make another cut.” FREE AppDownload
Thomson Reuters(Reuters) - Kraft Foods Group Inc &lt;KRFT.O&gt; said quarterly profit fell nearly 11 percent as price hikes, designed to offset higher commodity costs, hit demand for its popular products such as Velveeta cheese and Jell-O desserts. Kraft's shares were down 1.8 percent at $55.87 in after-hours trading. The company, which also makes Oscar Mayer meats and Kool-Aid beverages, said gross margin fell to 29.3 percent in the third quarter ended Sept. 27, from 33.8 percent a year earlier. The company said sales growth at its cheese foods business, which makes up 21 percent of total revenue, was slower than that of the U.S. cheese market as it raised prices to counter "an unrelenting dairy cost environment". Kraft has been raising prices on more than half its products. At the same time, it has been offering discounts to boost sales at its meals and desserts business, where revenue fell 6.7 percent as consumers increasingly reach for healthier, organic food over desserts and processed items. Rival General Mills Inc &lt;GIS.N&gt; reported a lower-than-expected quarterly profit last month on weak demand for its packaged foods and beverages such as Green Giant canned and frozen vegetables and Progresso soup. General Mills CEO Ken Powell told Reuters at the time that sales of non-durable goods, which include food and beverage items, have been flat to down for the industry. Kraft's net income fell to $446 million, or 74 cents per share, in the third quarter, from $500 million, or 83 cents per share, a year earlier. Revenue edged up 0.1 percent to $4.40 billion. Analysts on average had expected a profit of 74 cents per share on revenue of $4.47 billion, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.              (Reporting by Ramkumar Iyer in Bangalore; Editing by Robin Paxton and Maju Samuel) FREE AppDownload
(Reuters) - MetLife Inc &lt;MET.N&gt;, the largest U.S. life insurer, reported a better-than-expected quarterly profit, helped by higher premiums and gains tied to its derivatives program. The company's shares were up about 3 percent at $53.49 in extended trading. Premiums rose 7 percent to $9.69 billion, while total operating revenue rose 6.5 percent to $17.92 billion in the third quarter ended Sept. 30. "We delivered both top and bottom line growth, investment margins remained strong, and expenses were well controlled," Chief Executive Steve Kandarian said in statement. MetLife said earlier this month that it would fight a plan by the U.S. risk council to designate it as a firm whose demise could risk global finance, a tag that brings far greater regulatory scrutiny. The U.S. risk council is considering designating MetLife as a non-bank systemically important financial institution (SIFI), the third insurer to be tapped for such a designation. AIG &lt;AIG.N&gt; and Prudential Financial Inc &lt;PRU.N&gt; were designated as systemically important last year. On an operating basis, MetLife earned $1.60 per share in the third quarter, topping the average analyst estimate of $1.38, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. MetLife has tried to scale back on capital-intensive businesses such as annuities to focus more on traditional life insurance and pension products. The company's net profit rose to $2.06 billion, or $1.81 per share, in the quarter, from $942 million, or 84 cents per share, a year earlier. MetLife's profit in the latest quarter benefited from a $311 million derivative gain. MetLife, like other insurers, is heavily exposed to persistently low interest rates. But it has long had a substantial derivatives program designed to smooth out that risk.              (Reporting By Neha Dimri in Bangalore; Editing by Maju Samuel) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Claro Cortes(Reuters) - Visa Inc &lt;V.N&gt;, the world's largest credit and debit card company, reported a better-than-expected adjusted quarterly profit as improving consumer confidence worldwide encouraged more shoppers to use plastic. Visa's shares rose 4.6 percent to $224.59 in extended trading. On an adjusted basis, the company's net income rose 14 percent to $1.4 billion, or $2.18 per Class A share, for the quarter ended Sept. 30. Consumer confidence in the same period improved globally as concerns about the economy and job prospects eased, according to a survey by global information company Nielsen. U.S. consumer confidence also rose in August to its highest since October 2007. Visa's total operating revenue rose 8.6 percent to $3.23 billion. Analysts on average had expected a profit of $2.10 per share on revenue of $3.19 billion, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. Net income fell to $1.07 billion, or $1.72 per Class A share, in the fourth quarter from $1.19 billion, or $1.85 per Class A share, a year earlier, as Visa booked a pre-tax $450 million litigation provision. Visa's payment volume growth on a constant dollar basis rose 11 percent to $1.2 trillion in the quarter.              (Reporting by Tanya Agrawal; Editing by Saumyadeb Chakrabarty and Robin Paxton) FREE AppDownload
AP/Fernando VergaraDeutsche Bank's David Bianco thinks stocks go higher from here as long as a few conditions are met. "The S&amp;P should climb to 2000 or higher by yearend if confidence remains solid in at least low single-digit EPS growth next year," Bianco wrote on Sunday. His forecast for 4.5% year-over-year earnings growth in 2015 assumes oil at around $85 per barrel and the Euro falling to $1.20 by the end of 2015. Bianco's research note included a list of 50 large-cap stocks to buy now. They're all rated Buy by Deutsche bank's analysts. They all have PE ratios below 22, expected earnings growth rates above 3%, and market caps above $10 billion. FREE AppDownload
 EUTERS/Lucas JacksonStocks fell after the Federal Reserve announced that it will end its quantitative easing program at the end of this month. The Fed also kept interest rates pegged at 0%-0.25% and said that it expects there will be a "considerable time" between the end of QE and its first interest rate hike. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Wednesday: 1. QE is over. The Federal Reserve on Wednesday announced that at the end of this month, it will end its quantitative easing program, which included the purchase of Treasury and asset-backed securities. The Fed made its final purchase under the program, which was down to $15 billion a month, earlier this week, and now the countdown is on to the Fed's first rate hike. In an email following the Fed's announcement, Chris Rupkey, chief financial economist at MUFG, said he thinks the Fed could raise rates sooner than expected given the strength in the labor market.  2. Following the announcement, markets sold off, but regained most of those losses and finished slightly lower on the day. The dollar, however, staged a big rally after the announcement, gaining against the yen, the euro, and the pound. 3. In stock news, Facebook was a big loser on Wednesday, falling more than 6% after saying on its Tuesday earnings conference call that 2015 would be a year of investment for the company with expenses expected to rise 50%-70% during the year. But as Business Insider's Henry Blodget wrote on Wednesday, this is exactly what the company should be doing: investing for the long term.  4. Also in tech news, IBM and Twitter announced a new partnership wherein IBM will help businesses use Twitter data to understand their customers and other business trends. The deal has three parts, and Business Insider's Julie Bort has the full breakdown here.  5. A big loser on Wednesday was Orbital Sciences, which fell more than 15% after its unmanned rocket set to bring supplies to the International Space Station exploded shortly after take off on Tuesday night in Virginia. No one was hurt during the accident, which Orbital said was caused by a "catastrophic failure." 6. Alibaba shares fell about 1% on Wednesday, but a number of analysts initiated coverage on the stock on Wednesday, and most all of them were giving the Chinese e-commerce giant a big thumbs up. Business Insider's Jay Yarow has the full rundown of who is saying what about Alibaba, but among the notable comments were those out of JPMorgan, which said the company could be worth up to $178 a share under its "best case" scenario.  7. Fiat Chrysler shares gained more than 11% on Wednesday after the company said it would spin off its Ferrari unit. Business Insider's Matthew DeBord has everything you need to know about the move here.  Don't Miss: A CEO Called Out An Analyst On Its Earnings Call Because His Price Target Is Too Low » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kacper Pempel FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisers.  The Drop In Oil Prices Is A Godsend For China (Merrill Lynch Wealth Management) Everyone's been abuzz over China's slowing economy.  "In China, investors are coming to terms with a lower level of economic growth. Government authorities there are balancing the need to maintain growth above 7% a year while managing a credit crunch and a highly levered financial system," writes Ashvin B. Chhabra. However, there is one bit of good news for the Chinese economy: the decline in oil prices. It is "a boon to oil-importing nations such as China," writes Chhabra. Muni Investors Should 'Do Their Homework' With Pension Funds (Charles Schwab)  "Rating agencies have begun to pay more attention to the rising costs of pension benefits, which represent a burden on the municipal bond market," write Cooper J. Howard and Rob Williams. This has several implications for investors. First, investors should "do their homework" and go through recent financial statements and disclosures. Additionally, if they own more than 10 individual issuers, diversification will help limit the idiosyncratic, individual credit risk, write Howard and Williams. Investors should also consider municipal bonds that are not affected by pensions, and should also think about outsourcing to professionals — particularly if they don't have "the desire and interest to monitor individual credit conditions." Investors Can Still Outperform In EM (AllianceBernstein) Back in the day, most investors were nervous about going for emerging markets. EM companies were considered significantly inefficient and not transparent. As a result, the few investors who could get around these "obstacles" would make a killing. Nowadays, EM companies are well covered by analysts. Many assume that this improved coverage now makes it harder for investors to outperform in EM than in the past.  "But broader evidence suggests otherwise," writes Sammy Suzuki. "[T]he median EM manager has continued to beat their benchmark over one-, three-, and five-year periods. The magnitude of the outperformance over rolling three-year periods suggest that EM is still less efficient than the US market and similarly inefficient versus developed markets excluding the US." Old Advisors Aren't Connecting With Young Investors, And Their Industry Is Suffering (Financial Advisor Magazine) "Things are probably going great in your practice today because investor confidence has been improving. But five or 10 years from now, a new generation of investors could wreck it," writes Gregory Bresiger. Although asset growth is "booming," many older advisers aren't connecting with the next generation of investors. In fact, broker-dealers have been going out of business every two days since 2007. The current group of advisers is not being replaced fast enough, and firms need to start developing training programs to attract young advisers. "It's estimated that we'll need 237,000 advisers over the next 10 years to serve new investors," Ron DeCicco, the CEO of Pershing, said. Brokerage Firms' Flat-Fee Push Was Paying Off, But Now It's Starting To Slow (The Wall Street Journal) Big brokerage firms have been pushing more clients into flat-fee assets — and it was paying off until now. Firms including Merrill Lynch Wealth Management and Morgan Stanley were "reporting bigger chunks of revenue from those pools," according to Michael Wursthorn. However, the momentum appears to be slowing down. Over the last 10 years, these assets have been growing year over year. But this year, "thanks in part to market performance," some firms are reporting flat or lowered flows in this segment. "[A]s far as significant growth, we probably already saw the biggest chunk of that take place already," said Edward Jones analyst Shannon Stemm. FREE AppDownload
Edgar Su/ReutersThe skyline of Singapore's central business district is seen at dusk as operations continue at a PSA International port terminalSingapore has retained its top spot in the World Bank's ranking of the best countries to do business in, while China and the UK both improved their positions. The UK rose to eighth place from 10th, swapping with Finland which dropped to ninth, but the rest of the top 10 remained the same, with the US staying put in at seventh. China improved its ranking by three spots, after the World Bank rated the world's second-biggest economy as the 90th best place to do business. Japan, however, slipped two spots to 29th, according to the report. Overall, the Doing Business 2015 report showed that it is becoming easier to business across the world overall, including advanced economies and those considered to be emerging and frontier economies. International Business Times"The countries with the worst business practices, with the most difficult and costly procedures, with the weakest institutions" are catching up with the best performers, according to World Bank director of global indicators and analysis Augusto Lopez-Claros, as quoted by Bloomberg. "This is the most encouraging." Among the top 10 most improved destinations were five Sub-Saharan countries, while the region scored highly for implementing regulatory reforms aimed at facilitating business. New Zealand was ranked as the second-best place to do business, followed by Hong Kong, Denmark and South Korea, while Singapore remained the top-ranked destination for the ninth year in a row.     FREE AppDownload
Since 1935, the Social Security Administration has been issuing numbers to permanent residents of the United States.  Nine simple digits distinguish each American from his or her fellow residents.  Today, assigned randomly and never recycled, a social security number is as unique an identifier as your fingerprints. (Although, in the past, duplicates are known to have been issued accidentally.) Early on, SSNs were issued through the states, and the first three digits designated the state where the person obtained the number; some states had more than one number, and this continued through 1972. Beginning in 1973, the numbers and cards were issued centrally, from the Social Security Administration (SSA) in Baltimore, MD, with the first three digits being assigned based on the zip code included on the application. Most people can verify that their number coincides with the place where they obtained their number here. There is a general east to west pattern, although not perfect, in the assignment of the first three digits, with several exceptions. For example, New Hampshire is 001-003, Maine is 004-007 and Hawaii is 575-576. Places that fall even further out of the pattern include D.C. (575-576), Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands (580-584, 596, 599), and Mississippi and Florida (both received 587-589 and 595 after they exhausted their initial assignments). The remaining digits of the social security number have little significance, other than as a unique identifier. The second two digits were initially designed to be the holder’s date of birth, but this was quickly abandoned in place of using those as a group number to ensure the accuracy of the issuing process. The last four digits are simply a serial number. Flickr/5waThis all changed in June of 2011. In order to help protect the integrity of SSNs and to address the problem of insufficient new numbers in some states, the SSA stopped issuing numbers based on location in lieu of a system of “randomization” that included the following changes: To date, 450+ million SSNs have been issued, but with just under 1 billion possible number combinations, there has never been a need to recycle numbers, and the SSA notes that it does “not reassign a Social Security number (SSN) after the number holder’s death.” Of course, at some point the numbers will run out and some change will need made to keep up that policy, perhaps adding a digit. But, for now, the answer to “What happens to your SSN when you die?” is absolutely nothing. It remains yours. FREE AppDownload
pegappp / FlickrThe Federal Reserve announced on Wednesday that it will conclude its QE program at the end of this month. This was in-line with market expectations, and now the countdown is on to the Fed's first rate hike. Amid recent volatility in the markets and declining future inflation measures, expectations for the Fed's first interest rate hike got pushed from the middle of 2015, (read: June), to the third quarter of next year, or the September 2015 FOMC meeting. But following today's statement, the general feel on Wall Street is that the statement was "hawkish," or implied that the Fed is looking to raise rates sooner than maybe the market expects. In an email shortly after the announcement, Chris Rupkey, Chief Financial Economist at MUFG wrote that Wednesday's statement shows that the first rate hike is coming sooner rather than later.  "'Solid job gains,' they actually said that," Rupkey wrote. "Hallelujah, this sounds like a first. Unemployment is coming down and coming down for the right reasons. It sounds like they have capitulated and finally admitted there is real improvement in the economy out there... It doesn’t sound like too low inflation is going to hold back the rate hikes next year either as the likelihood of inflation remaining below 2% is also diminishing even though they expect inflation near term will be held down by lower energy prices." Rupkey also notes that the lone dissenter this time around was the Minneapolis Fed's Narayana Kocherlakota, who thought the Fed should keep its $15 billion per month QE program in place, and Rupkey said this dissent "favors those in the early liftoff camp." But Rupkey's central argument is that this is all about the labor market. Recently, the market has been fixated on declining inflation expectations, but even with inflation expectations, Rupkey thinks that a strong labor market is going to see a Fed that looks to take action on interest rates.  "They are putting the market on guard here by saying if the data coming in show greater progress in meeting the Fed’s employment and inflation objectives, the increases in rates are likely to occur sooner than currently anticipated... Today’s statement shows the Fed believes the economy is nearing the final stages of full recovery. They halted the QE purchases today, and tomorrow, rate hikes are coming. Bet on it. The economy is better than you think." So there you have it. FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ DEA Ecstasy pills Investment banker Sage Kelly — the global head of healthcare investment banking at Jefferies — is involved in a divorce and custody battle with his estranged wife Christina Di Mauro Kelly, and a recent affidavit she filed about their marriage alleges a lifestyle of rampant drug abuse and extramarital sex. A top Wall Streeter told Business Insider that tons of folks in the finance community have been passing the affidavit around. And even in a place where messy divorces sometimes happen, it's an astonishing read. Perhaps the worst part of all this is that the affidavit also accuses and names a handful of investment bankers and company executives of using drugs themselves. Wikimedia CommonsThe apartment building where Sage Kelly resides.  Christina Kelly alleges Sage Kelly has abused cocaine, alcohol, and other illicit substances such as ecstasy, molly, and mushrooms while their two daughters, now ages 10 and 6, were present in their NYC apartment and Hamptons home. She also alleges that Kelly has been using cocaine for more than a decade and allegedly has a "special" relationship with his dealer. Christina, who was charged with a DWI in the Hamptons back in 2010 that injured her kids, says that she was first introduced to cocaine on her first date with Sage back in 2000. She alleges that it became a central part of their relationship. Sage, who makes $7 million per year, filed for divorce earlier this year. Initially, they were seeking joint custody of the kids.  But since August, Sage has had custody of the children, according to a complaint filed last week by Christina's attorney William Beslow. This was granted to Sage after he says he caught Christina using cocaine in the family apartment with hidden cameras during the last two weeks of July.  This affidavit was filed, in part, to show that Sage does not deserve full custody of the kids. Christina says that she hasn't used the drug since July, has been seeing a psychiatrist and is attending Alcoholics Anonymous meetings. More importantly, Sage, she says, was just as abusive with drugs as she was. She also claims high-level Wall Streeters who belonged to their social group abused drugs. Specifically, Christina accused Jefferies executive Ben Lorello — the global head of investment banking and global markets — of using drugs with her husband. A Jefferies rep told the New York Post that Lorello "categorically denies all the allegations." Christina Kelly also accused Marc Beer, the CEO of publicly traded pharmaceutical company Aegerion, of using cocaine. Bloomberg TV Marc Beer, the CEO of Aegerion Pharmaceuticals, said he does not use illegal substances. She claims that each pair began having sex in their respective beds. She also alleges that Beer suggested that they switch partners. She also alleges that she had sexual contact with Beer's girlfriend, while the two men watched. "Mindful of his goal of securing business from Marc, I felt responsible not to disappoint Marc," Christina says in her affidavit.  "Ms. Kelly’s accusations as to me are categorically false and baseless.  I do not use cocaine or any other illegal substance.  All of the allegations which Ms. Kelly has made regarding me and my girlfriend are ridiculous, baseless and grossly irresponsible," Beer said in an emailed statement to Business Insider.  Aegerion Pharmaceuticals also said that the board supports Beer. "Marc categorically denies the allegations. The board fully supports Marc, and has confidence in his leadership and his character. The board takes its governance responsibilities very seriously, but does not comment publically on internal governance matters," Aegerion said in a statement to Business Insider. There was another instance where Christina alleges that she, Sage, his Jefferies colleague Dung Nguyen and his wife Jessica used cocaine and alcohol and went for a nude swim at the Sag Harbor home. According to her affidavit, Dung went to his bedroom and Sage allegedly had sex with Jessica in the pool, which is located outside one of their daughters' bedrooms. A Jefferies rep for Nguyen told the New York Post that he "categorically denied the allegations made about him by Ms. Kelly." Sage Kelly acknowledged in an August court filing that he and his wife both used recreational drugs in the past, but "the 'Wolf of Wall Street' tale she tells this court is a work of fiction," the New York Post reports. She alleges that were instances where Sage allegedly "passed out at the marital residence — sometimes having defecated in our bed or on the floor next to the bed or having urinated on a bedroom wall."  ZillowHere's a shot of the Sag Harbor home.  "We were all stunned, therefore, at the sight of Sage — with his own blood purposefully smeared on his face in several long lines — walking towards us outside the home. After exclaiming, 'I found the bag!,' Sage popped yet another mushroom into his mouth," according to her affidavit.  A few years before that alleged incident, Christina claims that during another party at the Sag Harbor home Sage ingested Ketamine (a.k.a. "Special K").  "... Sage started to act crazily. At one point, Sage exclaimed, 'Help, help me; I'm dying,'" the affidavit states. "[Our daughter] was very upset. She said, 'Daddy, what is wrong?' Sage held [our daughter] and said that holding her was the only thing that could make him feel better. So, he held [our daughter] for about an hour. Then, thankfully, Sage emerged from the 'K-Hole,'" the affidavit states.  She also alleged that one of Sage's friends left a bag of cocaine on the pool table in the basement of the Sag Harbor home and their daughter put her finger in it. Here's the complaint: Complaint by Adam Leverone   FREE AppDownload
Billionaire energy mogul T. Boone Pickens didn't earn his fortune without the help of others. Most notably, he finds that some of his best advice came from his father.  Produced by: Justin Gmoser; Reporter: Julia La Roche Follow BI Video: On Facebook     
U.S. News &amp; World Report released their inaugural "Best Global Universities Ranking" on Tuesday, naming Harvard University the best school in the world — somewhat of a surprise, considering that Harvard ranked second on the publication's recent list of top American universities. U.S. News is known for its national universities and liberal arts college rankings, which this year named Princeton University and Williams College as the top schools in America. Last year, U.S. News changed its methodology to emphasize "outcome-related measures" — such as graduation and retention rates — which now account for 30% of a school's ranking. As The Washington Post points out, it's a little odd for U.S. News to have Princeton at the top of its national universities list, but only ranked 13 for global universities, while former number two Harvard tops the list. For their new ranking, U.S. News emphasized research prowess and global reputation, while omitting factors such as undergraduate admissions data and graduation rates. "This is about faculty productivity and prestige ... It is meaningful for certain things and not necessarily meaningful for other things. We get that. This is about big muscular research universities doing what research universities claim is their mission," U.S. News Editor Brian Kelly told The Washington Post. Here are the top 2o universities in the world, according to U.S. News &amp; World Report: 1. Harvard University 2. Massachusetts Institute of Technology 3. University of California, Berkeley 4. Stanford University 5. University of Oxford (United Kingdom) 6. University of Cambridge (United Kingdom) 7. California Institute of Technology 8. University of California, Los Angeles 9, University of Chicago 10. Columbia University 11. Johns Hopkins University 12. Imperial College London (United Kingdom) 13. Princeton University 14. University of Michigan 14. University of Toronto (Canada) 14. University of Washington 17. Yale University 18. University of California, San Diego 19. University of Pennsylvania 20. Duke University FREE AppDownload
The Federal Reserve just announced that at the end of this month it will conclude its quantitative easing program. Following this announcement the dollar is rallying against other major currencies.  In afternoon trade the dollar was at highs against the yen, the euro, and the pound. Meanwhile, US stocks were lower as bond yields were rising.  Here's a chart of the dollar's rally against the yen.  FinVizAnd the euro and pound both falling against the dollar.  FinViz FinViz FREE AppDownload
 EUTERS/Lucas JacksonStocks fell after the Federal Reserve announced that it will end its quantitative easing program at the end of this month. The Fed also kept interest rates pegged at 0%-0.25% and said that it expects there will be a "considerable time" between the end of QE and its first interest rate hike. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Wednesday: 1. QE is over. The Federal Reserve on Wednesday announced that at the end of this month, it will end its quantitative easing program, which included the purchase of Treasury and asset-backed securities. The Fed made its final purchase under the program, which was down to $15 billion a month, earlier this week, and now the countdown is on to the Fed's first rate hike. In an email following the Fed's announcement, Chris Rupkey, chief financial economist at MUFG, said he thinks the Fed could raise rates sooner than expected given the strength in the labor market.  2. Following the announcement, markets sold off, but regained most of those losses and finished slightly lower on the day. The dollar, however, staged a big rally after the announcement, gaining against the yen, the euro, and the pound. 3. In stock news, Facebook was a big loser on Wednesday, falling more than 6% after saying on its Tuesday earnings conference call that 2015 would be a year of investment for the company with expenses expected to rise 50%-70% during the year. But as Business Insider's Henry Blodget wrote on Wednesday, this is exactly what the company should be doing: investing for the long term.  4. Also in tech news, IBM and Twitter announced a new partnership wherein IBM will help businesses use Twitter data to understand their customers and other business trends. The deal has three parts, and Business Insider's Julie Bort has the full breakdown here.  5. A big loser on Wednesday was Orbital Sciences, which fell more than 15% after its unmanned rocket set to bring supplies to the International Space Station exploded shortly after take off on Tuesday night in Virginia. No one was hurt during the accident, which Orbital said was caused by a "catastrophic failure." 6. Alibaba shares fell about 1% on Wednesday, but a number of analysts initiated coverage on the stock on Wednesday, and most all of them were giving the Chinese e-commerce giant a big thumbs up. Business Insider's Jay Yarow has the full rundown of who is saying what about Alibaba, but among the notable comments were those out of JPMorgan, which said the company could be worth up to $178 a share under its "best case" scenario.  7. Fiat Chrysler shares gained more than 11% on Wednesday after the company said it would spin off its Ferrari unit. Business Insider's Matthew DeBord has everything you need to know about the move here.  Don't Miss: A CEO Called Out An Analyst On Its Earnings Call Because His Price Target Is Too Low » FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesFederal Reserve Board Chair Janet Yellen.Quantitative easing is over. Expectations were for the Fed to end its current quantitative-easing program and keep interest rates pegged at 0%-0.25%.  Both of these things came through. Following the report, markets were lower, with the Dow down 85 points, the S&amp;P 500 down 12 points, and the Nasdaq down 40 points. The Fed's latest statement showed that the Fed sees labor market conditions improving further since its last meeting, with solid job gains and a lower unemployment rate. The Fed also continues to see that "considerable time" will elapse between now and its first interest-rate hike.  All Committee members voted in favor of Wednesday's announcement, except for Minneapolis Fed President Narayana Kocherlakota. Kocherlakota, a noted dove, saw the need for the Fed to commit to "keeping the current target range for the federal funds rate at least until the one-to-two-year ahead inflation outlook has returned to 2 percent and should continue the asset purchase program at its current level." Here's the full statement from the Fed: Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in September suggests that economic activity is expanding at a moderate pace. Labor market conditions improved somewhat further, with solid job gains and a lower unemployment rate. On balance, a range of labor market indicators suggests that underutilization of labor resources is gradually diminishing. Household spending is rising moderately and business fixed investment is advancing, while the recovery in the housing sector remains slow. Inflation has continued to run below the Committee's longer-run objective. Market-based measures of inflation compensation have declined somewhat; survey-based measures of longer-term inflation expectations have remained stable. Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum employment and price stability. The Committee expects that, with appropriate policy accommodation, economic activity will expand at a moderate pace, with labor market indicators and inflation moving toward levels the Committee judges consistent with its dual mandate. The Committee sees the risks to the outlook for economic activity and the labor market as nearly balanced. Although inflation in the near term will likely be held down by lower energy prices and other factors, the Committee judges that the likelihood of inflation running persistently below 2 percent has diminished somewhat since early this year. The Committee judges that there has been a substantial improvement in the outlook for the labor market since the inception of its current asset purchase program. Moreover, the Committee continues to see sufficient underlying strength in the broader economy to support ongoing progress toward maximum employment in a context of price stability. Accordingly, the Committee decided to conclude its asset purchase program this month. The Committee is maintaining its existing policy of reinvesting principal payments from its holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed securities and of rolling over maturing Treasury securities at auction. This policy, by keeping the Committee's holdings of longer-term securities at sizable levels, should help maintain accommodative financial conditions. To support continued progress toward maximum employment and price stability, the Committee today reaffirmed its view that the current 0 to 1/4 percent target range for the federal funds rate remains appropriate. In determining how long to maintain this target range, the Committee will assess progress--both realized and expected--toward its objectives of maximum employment and 2 percent inflation. This assessment will take into account a wide range of information, including measures of labor market conditions, indicators of inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and readings on financial developments. The Committee anticipates, based on its current assessment, that it likely will be appropriate to maintain the 0 to 1/4 percent target range for the federal funds rate for a considerable time following the end of its asset purchase program this month, especially if projected inflation continues to run below the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal, and provided that longer-term inflation expectations remain well anchored. However, if incoming information indicates faster progress toward the Committee's employment and inflation objectives than the Committee now expects, then increases in the target range for the federal funds rate are likely to occur sooner than currently anticipated. Conversely, if progress proves slower than expected, then increases in the target range are likely to occur later than currently anticipated. When the Committee decides to begin to remove policy accommodation, it will take a balanced approach consistent with its longer-run goals of maximum employment and inflation of 2 percent. The Committee currently anticipates that, even after employment and inflation are near mandate-consistent levels, economic conditions may, for some time, warrant keeping the target federal funds rate below levels the Committee views as normal in the longer run. Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were: Janet L. Yellen, Chair; William C. Dudley, Vice Chairman; Lael Brainard; Stanley Fischer; Richard W. Fisher; Loretta J. Mester; Charles I. Plosser; Jerome H. Powell; and Daniel K. Tarullo. Voting against the action was Narayana Kocherlakota, who believed that, in light of continued sluggishness in the inflation outlook and the recent slide in market-based measures of longer-term inflation expectations, the Committee should commit to keeping the current target range for the federal funds rate at least until the one-to-two-year ahead inflation outlook has returned to 2 percent and should continue the asset purchase program at its current level. FREE AppDownload
instagram.com/kimkardashianThis is one instance in which marriage did probably make both people a lot richer.A new report released by W. Bradford Wilcox and Robert Lerman at the American Enterprise Institute suggests that more marriage is a possible solution to income inequality.  “For richer, for poorer: How family structures economic success in America” makes the case that growing income inequality, and many of the economic problems faced by low income Americans, can be helped by promoting marriage as a means to a more stable economic situation. Young people who come from two-parent households are better off economically than their peers from single-parent households, according to the report. Also, "men obtain a substantial 'marriage premium' and women bear no marriage penalty in their individual incomes, and both men and women enjoy substantially higher family incomes, compared to peers with otherwise similar characteristics." AEI This may be true, but it's a silly distraction from the real problems in our economy. The idea that marriage is somehow a ticket out of poverty — pushed hard by this report — is deeply problematic. The data between single parenthood and poverty is correlated, but there's no way to prove causation. It's just as likely that growing inequality has caused stress in the lives of middle and low income people which has caused the decline in marriage (in addition to, you know, the growing cultural acceptance of women to have agency over their own lives). It's also problematic in its implication that growing inequality is somehow something that poor people have created for themselves through changing cultural norms. Let's look at this chart from Emmanuel Saez and Gabriel Zucman's Vox EU post from earlier this week on rising wealth inequality. The share of wealth held by the top 0.1% in the US — which hasn't seen much in the way of changes to the family structure — has skyrocketed in exactly the time period that Wilcox and Lerman are linking marriage to income inequality. Saez/Zucman  This has nothing to do with family structure. It has to do with asset structure (and tax policy structure). Saez and Zacman find that "the combination of higher income inequality alongside a growing disparity in the ability to save for most Americans is fuelling the explosion in wealth inequality." Sure, dual incomes allow of efficiencies that would probably allow for greater saving (although also greater mortgage debt, another issue that Saez and Zacman point to as problematic). But talking about forcing unions on people instead of addressing the drivers of income inequality is a waste of time. FREE AppDownload
Gary Kaminsky Early mornings, high-powered meetings, and and peanut butter oatmeal, it's all par for the course in the life of Gary Kaminsky, Morgan Stanley's vice chairman of wealth management and former capital markets editor at CNBC. Kaminsky left CNBC for Morgan Stanley last year, joining the ranks of one of the hottest teams on The Street. It's an increasingly demanding business — wealth management has become one of finance's most profitable sectors — but Kaminsky remains energetic as ever, preparing for his sixth New York City Marathon and putting in those long hours with style. If you would like to participate in our "Day In The Life" on Wall Street series, feel free to send an email and a brief description of why you would be a great candidate to jlaroche@businessinsider.com or llopez@businessinsider.com.  FREE AppDownload
If there's anything we've learned about the over $1.3 billion debt saga between a group of hedge funds and Argentina it's that just when you think something is over... There could always be more. And so it is with a tiny incident that occurred in 2012. Ghanaian legal documents reviewed by Argentine paper Clarin's Ana Baron say that, La Fragata Libertad, a war vessel impounded in the Ghana at that time "escaped" before it was legally released. Additionally, says the Ghanaian Court, the Argentine government owes $15 million to the group of hedge funds that had the boat impounded in the first place. Yes, this is completely bizarre so let's back track. In the fall of 2012, the group of hedge funds, led by Elliott Management's Paul Singer, obtained a Court order from a Judge in Ghana confirming that Argentina did indeed owe them over a billion worth of unpaid sovereign debt. And as such, said the Court, La Fragata Libertad — then docked in a Ghanaian harbor — could be impounded where it sat and used as collateral. This is all part of a saga going back to 2001. That's when Singer and company bought Argentine sovereign bonds for pennies on the dollar after the country defaulted on its debt. While most investors in that debt took haircuts in 2005 and 2010, Singer held fast asking for 100 cents on the dollar for the bonds. Argentina refused — insisting that they should be paid less like everyone else. An epic legal battle ensued — one which ended this summer with Argentina losing and going into default as it continued to refuse to pay. Before all that and outside the Court room, though, Singer and company chased Argentina's assets all over the world, arguing that they had the right to discover anything the country owned that could be used as payment for its debt. That's how the hedge funds found La Libertad and got it impounded. It stayed in Ghana for months, manned by a skeleton crew that sometimes found itself in aggressive spats with Ghanaian naval officials. The boat went back home when the International Maritime Court of the Sea ordered its release. The problem is, Baron reports, that Ghana did not ratify the IMCS's order until months later. That means it wasn't actually legal in Ghana. Which also means La Libertad high-tailed in back to Argentina illegally. "As these Court proceedings remained pending, La Libertad, the Argentine war ship, left Ghana in violation of the Supreme Court," said the Ghanaian Court order. The Court also said that Argentina still owed the hedge funds $15 million in damages. Put it on their tab maybe? FREE AppDownload
Cliffs NaturalCliffs Natural CEO Lourenco Goncalves. On Cliffs' earnings conference call on Tuesday morning, Goncalves told Wells Fargo analyst Sam Dubinsky that he wouldn't answer Dubinsky's questions because "you already know everything about my company." "You have a $4 price target and you think we can't sell assets, so I'm going to take the next question, I'm not going to answer you," Goncalves said.  It is a jarring exchange. Here's the audio.  In a note to clients following the report, Dubinsky wrote that Goncalves was "pretty bold" on the earnings call. It was also Goncalves' first earnings call as CEO since being named to the position on Aug. 7.  And the exchange, or really just the shutting down of Dubinsky's questions by Goncalves, shows some of the complications inherent in the relationship between companies and analysts.  It is Dubinsky's job, as a research analyst, to publish his assessment of the companies in his coverage area and, based on this work, publish a recommendation on how he believes the stock will perform going forward.  But as for his assessment of the company's quarter and outlook, Dubinsky wrote: "Cliffs reported upside to Q3 estimates and set a pretty high bar across the board when discussing the outcome of Canada, cost reductions, and dividend safety. We're cautious on shares due to our bearish stance on iron ore pricing, skepticism over asset sales, and the high debt load." He added that there was "too much uncertainty in both the macro backdrop and Cliffs' strategy to change our rating." Dubinsky has an "Underperform" rating and valuation range of $4 to $7 on the stock, though he did raise earnings estimates for Cliffs' fourth quarter. In broad strokes, Wall Street recommendations break down into Buy, Sell, and Hold ratings, which are pretty much exactly what they sound like. And while lots of firms have different names for these ratings, the spirit is the same.  But again, this is just an outline. These recommendations are also usually — but not always! — about a stock's performance relative to a benchmark that isn't uniform across all stocks. But at any rate, this is basically what we're looking at when we're looking at "analyst recommendations." Sometimes analysts also put price targets on shares of a company, which is the price an analyst expects a stock to trade at in 12 months. But this target could also be for more or less than 12 months, which the analyst will specify in a note. (And again, for technicalities sake, Dubinsky's "Underperform" rating and valuation range of $4 to $7 on shares of Cliffs is essentially a "Sell" rating and $4 price target on the stock, but not exactly. Either way.)  A nice example of how this all gets sort of confusing and occluded is from Jay Yarow's recent post on how analysts see Alibaba, which includes a thrice-qualified scenario from analysts at Morgan Stanley.  From Jay's post: JPMorgan Chase put out a 158-page report on Alibaba. It thinks Alibaba has the potential to blast to the moon. In a "best-case scenario" it thinks Alibaba could be worth $178/share. In the "worst case" it could be $60. For now, it has a $114 price target. So, again, this is tricky territory for both analysts and companies. How is Alibaba or Cliffs supposed to feel when an analyst thinks its stock could either: rise 100%, fall 50%, or go nowhere? The idealist answer is that the company is supposed to be focused on its business and let the Wall Street analysts do their Wall Street analyzing. But part of what these Wall Street analysts get, as much as anything else, is access to company management that shareholders (and journalists) can't really get.  Analysts usually get an individual call with company management after their quarterly report, or even more often, and can meet with management during investor meetings, etc.  The idea is that these analysts, because of their expertise, training, and access, are then able to make the best possible assessments of a company.  This paper from March 2013 gives a good overview of how the whole analyst thing works (or doesn't).  But executives are still people, too. And being the CEO of a public company is a hard job with a lot of public visibility and a lot of public stress, and if you look at the stock price of Cliffs over the past year, it probably hasn't been the most fun thing to be in charge of. (The stock is down about 58% year-to-date.) Google Finance So imagine that you're answering to your employees, your shareholders, your suppliers, customers, other executives and board members, and on top of this there is an equity analyst who thinks your company is worth about one-third of its current stock price. Under this outline, it seems easy enough to understand why Goncalves was comfortable dismissing Dubinsky's question in public.  But also, he was dismissing an analyst's question in public.  And while no analyst is ever expected to be a "cheerleader" for a company, or for management, there is also a somewhat tenuous relationship between analysts and companies. In the aforementioned academic report looking at the relationship between companies and sell-side research analysts, one analyst told the researchers that, "We're sort of like a megaphone [for company management]." And so if part of your value, as an analyst, is to let the market know what a company is thinking, wouldn't it be in the best interest of that company that the message be not, you know, terrible? But read any research report and there will be a few pages of disclosures and legal stuff that says, basically, as an analyst this report reflects my view of the company and I won't be paid based on the recommendation made in this report.  For better or worse.  FREE AppDownload
Note from dshort: The NYSE has released new data for margin debt, now available through September. I've updated the charts in this commentary to include the latest numbers. The New York Stock Exchange publishes end-of-month data for margin debt on the NYXdata website, where we can also find historical data back to 1959. Let's examine the numbers and study the relationship between margin debt and the market, using the S&amp;P 500 as the surrogate for the latter. The first chart shows the two series in real terms — adjusted for inflation to today's dollar using the Consumer Price Index as the deflator. I picked 1995 as an arbitrary start date. We were well into the Boomer Bull Market that began in 1982 and approaching the start of the Tech Bubble that shaped investor sentiment during the second half of the decade. The astonishing surge in leverage in late 1999 peaked in March 2000, the same month that the S&amp;P 500 hit its all-time daily high, although the highest monthly close for that year was five months later in August. A similar surge began in 2006, peaking in July 2007, three months before the market peak. Debt hit a trough in February 2009, a month before the March market bottom. It then began another major cycle of increase. Margin debt hit an all-time high in February of this year. The latest Margin Data Unfortunately, the NYSE margin debt data is about a month old when it is published. Following its February peak, real margin declined sharply for two months, -3.9% in March -3.2% in April and was flat in May. It then jumped 5.7% in June, its largest gain in 17 months. July saw a 0.9% decline, but number has drifted higher the two subsequent months, up 0.6% in August and 0.2% in September. It is now only is 0.4% below the February peak.  Click for a larger image The next chart shows the percentage growth of the two data series from the same 1995 starting date, again based on real (inflation-adjusted) data. I've added markers to show the precise monthly values and added callouts to show the month. Margin debt grew at a rate comparable to the market from 1995 to late summer of 2000 before soaring into the stratosphere. The two synchronized in their rate of contraction in early 2001. But with recovery after the Tech Crash, margin debt gradually returned to a growth rate closer to its former self in the second half of the 1990s rather than the more restrained real growth of the S&amp;P 500. But by September of 2006, margin again went ballistic. It finally peaked in the summer of 2007, about three months before the market.  Click for a larger image After the market low of 2009, margin debt again went on a tear until the contraction in late spring of 2010. The summer doldrums promptly ended when Chairman Bernanke hinted of more quantitative easing in his August, 2010 Jackson Hole speech. The appetite for margin instantly returned, and the Fed periodically increased the easing until the beginning of tapering purchases now underway. NYSE Investor Credit Lance Roberts of STA Wealth Management analyzes margin debt in the larger context that includes free cash accounts and credit balances in margin accounts. Essentially, he calculates the Credit Balance as the sum of Free Credit Cash Accounts and Credit Balances in Margin Accounts minus Margin Debt. The chart below illustrates the mathematics of Credit Balance with an overlay of the S&amp;P 500. Note that the chart below is based on nominal data, not adjusted for inflation.  Click for a larger image Here's a slightly closer look at the data, starting with 1995. Also, I've inverted the S&amp;P 500 monthly closes and used markers to pinpoint the monthly close values.  Click for a larger image As I pointed out above, the NYSE margin debt data is a several weeks old when it is published. Thus, even though it may in theory be a leading indicator, a major shift in margin debt isn't immediately evident. Nevertheless, we see that the troughs in the monthly net credit balance preceded peaks in the monthly S&amp;P 500 closes by six months in 2000 and four months in 2007. The most recent S&amp;P 500 correction greater than 10% was the 19.39% selloff in 2011 from April 29th to October 3rd. Investor Credit hit a negative extreme in March 2011. There are too few peak/trough episodes in this overlay series to take the latest credit-balance data as a leading indicator of a major selloff in U.S. equities. But we'll definitely want to keep an eye on this metric in the months ahead. Note on the data: The NYSE website only posts the Free Credit Cash Accounts data back to 2003. The Free Credit Cash Accounts data back to 1980 is available on a fee basis from Haver Analytics. This article originally appeared at Advisor Perspectives.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
EUTERS/Suzanne Plunkett A Tesco store in the UK. LONDON (Reuters) - Britain's Serious Fraud Office (SFO) is to launch a formal criminal probe into accounting errors at troubled supermarket Tesco &lt;tsco.l&gt;, Sky News reported on Wednesday. Britain's biggest retailer, which has suffered a string of recent profit warnings and management exits, is already being investigated by accounting watchdog, the Financial Reporting Council, after the firm overstated first-half profits by $263 million pounds (424 million). Tesco, whose shares slipped half a percent on the news, declined to comment. A SFO spokesman said it was still doing a preliminary investigation of Tesco but declined to say whether it had launched a full probe. "When we do have something to announce in terms of a next stage, that will be announced," he said.  (Reporting by Neil Maidment and Kirstin Ridley; Editing by Kate Holton) FREE AppDownload
A civil racketeering lawsuit against Donald Trump can proceed as a class action, a federal judge has ruled, in a major incremental victory for a former student accusing him of running a bogus investment university. The ruling by Judge Gonzalo Curiel means that a California businessman named Art Cohen can sue Donald Trump on behalf of anybody who bought seminars from Trump University after January 2007. That lawsuit accuses Donald Trump and his university of violating federal racketeering law by scheming to defraud students into paying thousands of dollars for useless real estate investing classes. Curiel's ruling is a big deal because it is generally not worth a lawyer's time to pursue a case like this on behalf of one person. Now, Cohen is representing thousands of people who were allegedly duped by Trump University, according to court documents filed by his attorneys. Here's what Trump's lawyers said in a statement emailed to Business Insider: "We are taking action to immediately appeal the Court’s decision to certify a class in this case.  However, we are confident that Mr. Trump will ultimately prevail on the merits once all the evidence is considered." Trump University stopped operating in 2011 but has been the subject of continuous litigation. New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman sued Trump University last year for allegedly failing to deliver on promises to teach real estate investment techniques and defrauding students of $40 million. Cohen also filed his suit last year after he allegedly spent $34,996 on Trump University's "Gold Elite" program. Trump misled students into believing they would learn investment secrets from both him and his "handpicked professors," the lawsuit claims. Instead, Cohen said, Trump had no real role in choosing instructors and didn't give students access to any of his real estate investing secrets. "The misleading nature of the enterprise is embodied by its very name," the complaint said. "That is because, though Defendant promised 'Trump University,' he delivered neither Donald Trump nor a university."   FREE AppDownload
FerrariNow for sale to investors. This move caps a wild run of weeks for the maker of exotic, bright-red sports cars and four-wheeled objects of desire. Prior to FCA listing on the New York Stock Exchange and fully merging Fiat and Chrysler, longtime Ferrari Charmian Luca di Montezemolo stepped down after more than two decades at the helm. It was widely speculated at the time that he had been, if not exactly forced out, definitely pressured to leave by FCA CEO Sergio Marchionne, who moved swiftly into the head spot. The strategic dispute between Marchionne and Montezemolo went right to the core of the Ferrari brand, which defines power, prestige, performance, and exclusivity — at least as Montezemolo saw it. STR/AFPTime to go, Luca. Marchionne had other ideas: He saw Ferrari producing 7,000 cars a year and felt that he was staring into the face of untapped opportunity. Montezemolo, an automotive aristocrat with no shortage of the politician's common touch, believed that he understood better the Ferrari DNA — and that building more cars would destroy the nearly meticulous recovery for the carmaker that he had engineered after taking over in the late 1990s. Obviously, Montezemolo lost that argument. In a statement, FCA announced the nuts and bolts of the deal: In effect, this is a second IPO for FCA. The merger and listing on the NYSE, which took place several weeks ago, converted Fiat shares and formed a new entity, enabling investors to buy into Fiat, Chrysler, and the group's other brands (it wasn't a real IPO, but it did create a market value for FCA).  Even though the float will be fairly limited for Ferrari, the move to spin it off reprises a discussion from mid-2011, when there was chatter that Fiat-Chrysler — then still a mashup of the Italian carmaker and the post-bankruptcy Detroit icon — would stage a Ferrari IPO. (And for the record, FCA doesn't own Ferrari entirely. Ten percent of the company belongs to Piero Ferrari, the once-illegitimate son of founder Enzo Ferrari who still works for the carmaker.) At the time, a valuation for Ferrari of $7 billion was being talked about. For what it's worth, the entire market cap of FCA, even with a 20% boost in share prices since the merger, it just over $12 billion. And as of Wednesday morning, a full 10% of that jump in FCA shares can be attributed to the Ferrari spin-off announcement. The only way to buy Ferrari before was to buy FCA. But now investors will be able to buy Ferrari outright. To be sure, FCA is worth in total substantially more than Ferrari alone. But Ferrari is worth a lot. There's a wrinkle on the finance side — and that's where the risk resides. FCA isn't just spinning off Ferrari, it's also issuing $2.5 billion in debt. Reuters reported that the only way for investors to get in the Ferrari deal was to participate in the bond deal. So buying Ferrari equity also means buying FCA debt.  You could call it the ultimate risk-reward proposition: How can you miss out on buying Ferrari, just because you're worried about the future of Fiat and Chrysler? Financial complications aside, this all extremely logical from a management standpoint. Over the next year, Marchionne will surely push Ferrari to up production and introduce new models — in all likelihood, models that compete in different segments, that cost less (the cheapest Ferrari, the California, is priced at $200,ooo), and that expand the brand's aura of exclusivity into quarters that are just a bit less exclusive. FerrariOnly $200,000. Ferrari fans are now going to have to brace themselves for the inevitable creation of a Ferrari SUV. Maybe Marchionne — a Ferrari fan himself, he owns seven — will consider that a bridge too far. But then again, he has to be looking at the tremendous success Porsche has enjoyed with its Cayenne SUV, a vehicle that the Porsche enthusiasts said the carmaker would be insane to build. Marchionne is now moving forward relentlessly. He senses his moment on two fronts.  First, the US auto market is surging, recovering to heights not seen since before the financial crisis. Americans are buying SUVs and trucks again, and FCA make plenty of those. Additionally, the Chinese auto market — where Marchionne wants FCA to be in a bigger way — continues to help automakers make up for weakness in Europe, Russia, and Latin America. Second, the luxury auto market is projected to grow rapidly over the next decade. To put it bluntly, Marchionne sees thousands of newly rich consumers who want a Ferrari but can't currently have one because Montezemolo thought they weren't quite ready. In the former chairman's defense, exclusivity is the lifeblood of luxury brands — erode it and you can easily struggle mightily to get it back. But Marchionne, having contrived a remarkable renaissance for Chrysler, a brand that was left for dead in 2009, and having brought Fiat back from the brink, isn't one to leave money on the table. Montezemolo, with his background in racing, knew that Ferrari is as much a state of mind as it is a carmaker. If you weren't worthy of ownership, it was perhaps because you didn't grasp that you hoped to own a car that longed not for the valet line but for the track. REUTERS/Albert GeaThis is where Ferraris are supposed to be. However, Marchionne knows that global auto companies need cash and gobs of it. He doubtless imagines that Ferrari is strong enough to be milked now while the milking is good, at least in the short-term. Once its contribution to the balance sheet is "rightsized," so to speak, then Marchionne can turn his attention to protecting the brand. In the end, a question of priorities. And the beginning of what could be a remarkable era for Ferrari.    // <!--[CDATA[OO.ready(function() { OO.Player.create('ooyalaplayer', 'xnYzc2cTptuq5EHsOyKUXsDzc9JMre3p'); });// ]]--> FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesAlibaba CEO Jack Ma.Analysts from all the big banks started coverage of the e-commerce company Alibaba on Wednesday.  All of them, with one exception, love the stock. Street Insider says that 12 of 13 analysts have a positive rating. Only Goldman Sachs is neutral on the stock. (And even Goldman is actually bullish, which you will see below.) The positive analyst reports aren't doing much for the stock, though. It's down 2% Wednesday morning to $97.60.  In mid-September, Alibaba priced its IPO at $68 per share, raising $21.8 billion in the biggest public offering in history. The shares have soared past the $100 mark since then. JPMorgan Chase put out a 158-page report on Alibaba. It thinks Alibaba has the potential to blast to the moon. In a "best-case scenario" it thinks Alibaba could be worth $178/share. In the "worst case" it could be $60. For now, it has a $114 price target. (This is fairly typical for the analysts. They cover their bases with a lot of price target options.) "Alibaba has profoundly changed Chinese consumers' purchase behavior, and is one of the most profitable and fast-growing large cap Internet companies globally," JPMorgan says. "We believe its sustainable growth outlook and impressive profitability on an already large-scale makes it a highly sought-after Internet asset for global investors." How does it get to $178? This is the wonky explanation from JPMorgan: "Our best-case scenario indicates stronger revenue growth through CY2018 (13-18E CAGR of 41% vs. 31% of base case). We estimate Alibaba will generate RMB272bn total revenue in 2018 under this scenario, which converts to CY2015E valuation of US$463bn (or US$178 per share), implying 79% potential upside to the current value." Here are the two reasons JPMorgan is high on Alibaba: Here is RBC's take on the company: China’s Internet Utility — Just as Google, Amazon &amp; Facebook have become Internet Utilities in the US, Western Europe, and some other markets, Alibaba has become an Internet Utility in China. With an expected $360B in GMV in CY14 and with almost 300MM Active Buyers, BABA is THE dominant Chinese ecommerce platform. Highly profitable too, with an expected $6B in EBITDA (49% margin) in CY14. We have tracked Alibaba for a decade and have been impressed with the vision and discipline of the mngmt team and the development of the platform. In terms of the stock call, we are positive on BABA’s Total Addressable Market, Business Model, Management Team &amp; Competitive Moats (our 4M structure), and we view current valuation as reasonable. And here is Evercore: We are initiating on Alibaba with a Buy rating on the thesis that China consumers and sellers are experiencing several secular tailwinds that stand to benefit the Alibaba platform and its unique combination of assets, including dominant reach and seller efficiency. Our Buy rating contemplates manageable estimate expectations in addition to several valuation methodologies that all point to upside from where shares currently trade. Here is Goldman, the only bank that feels meh. It expects the stock to crash all the way up to $133. Alibaba dominates the world’s fastest growing e-commerce market, with 279mn buyers and 8.5mn merchants across 118 product categories. It drives globalization of sourcing and distribution, and its proprietary data technology, powered by an industry-leading cloud computing system, supports outsized transaction flow in its various marketplaces. Near-term prospects appear well discounted, so we launch with a 12 month TP of US$102; however, with steady growth, we estimate equity value could appreciate to $133/share in two years, or a $350bn market capitalization. FREE AppDownload
 Venture capitalist Peter Boyce II weighed in on whether to get an MBA in the second part of his interview with OneWire CEO Skiddy von Stade. Boyce has founded businesses without the prestigious degree. In high school, he created his first company fixing computers after helping his mom with hers. In college, he cofounded two groups that helped bring young entrepreneurs together. And today he's an early-stage investor in student startups through Rough Draft Ventures, a company he cofounded. So what does he think about investing in an MBA? "I almost feel like I'm getting my MBA on the go right now in a lot of ways. A lot of the programs are fantastically powerful, especially for helping folks understand "how do you take a company from 50 to 100 people internationally?" So that management skill is not easy to necessarily do if you've never run a company that size before. So I think it's an interesting compliment or supplement for someone that operates a company. I think for myself, being in venture [capital], you get to see early stage entrepreneurs go through those different phases and go through those different steps, and so I almost feel like I've gotten kind of a taste of it."  Watch the full interview above and subscribe to the Open Door series to receive upcoming interviews. FREE AppDownload
The CEOs on the Inc. 500, an annual ranking of the fastest-growing private U.S. companies, are as savvy as entrepreneurs come, so it's no surprise then that in our annual survey, a majority (87 percent) of them said they rely on the career network LinkedIn, or that 63 percent keep a social media expert on payroll. With companies such as Google, Apple, and Elon Musk-led Tesla on their radar, it's clear that this year's class of chief execs are keenly interested in staying on top of tech trends. Among the revealing stats: nearly half of the CEOs surveyed (46 percent) said cloud computing will transform their business the most, while 43 percent expect 3-D printing to shake things up. Which will win out? Only time will tell, but Inc. entrepreneur of the year and Box CEO Aaron Levie probably has some opinions on the subject.  Check out the graphic below to see where Inc. 500 CEOs stand on technology. Inc FREE AppDownload
Once again, Facebook is doing exactly what it should be doing: Investing for the long term. And, once again, Wall Street is appalled. Last night, the moment Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg announced that Facebook would invest aggressively next year and therefore generate modestly less profit in the short-term, the stock tanked. Never mind that this year of investment will almost certainly increase Facebook's long-term profits and value. Wall Street has become so obsessed with short-term profit maximization that it no longer understands the concept of "present value of future cash flows" — a concept that includes not just next year's cash flows but ALL future cash flows. This short-term profit obsession, by the way, isn't just hurting Facebook's stock. It's hurting great companies. And it's hurting the economy. In deciding once again to invest aggressively for the future, Facebook is striving to create the most possible long-term value for its four important constituencies: Customers (users), employees, shareholders, and society. More American companies should be doing this. But most American companies have become so hijacked by short-term Wall Street traders, and so obsessed with annual bonuses tied to stock prices, that they think about little more than "beating analysts' estimates" next quarter. In so doing, they often under-invest in opportunities that could create vastly more value over the long term. Instead of making big, bold bets on projects that won't pay off for 5-10 years, for example, companies cut research and development to squeeze out a couple more pennies for this quarter's bottom line. Instead of investing in redeploying and retraining talented employees, they fire them. Instead of paying good employees well enough that the employees don't have to be poor, they "control labor costs." (Hello, Walmart. Hello, Starbucks and McDonald's). And so on. Business Insider, St. Louis FedBig American companies now have the highest profit margins in history.As the accompanying charts show, the profit-maximization obsession has led to the country's biggest companies earning the highest profits in history, both in absolute terms and as a percent of the economy. Meanwhile, the companies are paying the lowest wages in history. And the companies are investing in capital equipment at one of the lowest rates in history. Business Insider, St. Louis FedBig American companies are also paying the lowest wages in history--that's why their profits are so high.If you talk to companies about this, they will say they obsess about short-term profits because they have a "duty to shareholders" to deliver the highest stock-price possible, at all times. Importantly, however, the companies do not say this because it's some immutable law of business. (It isn't.) The companies say it because it's what they've been told by short-term traders, who are worried about how their funds are going to perform week, next month, and next quarter. Business Insider, St. Louis FedBig American companies are investing at one of the lowest rates in history. (Capital investment to GDP) There are lots of causes of Wall Street's obsession with short-term profits, so it's not worth trying to pin the blame on any one participant. The important point is this: Our collective short-term profit obsession is hurting companies, hurting average Americans, and hurting the economy. Why? Because the "cost-savings" that companies get when they don't invest in attractive long-term projects represent lost wages for American consumers and lost sales for other American companies. And those lost wages and lost sales constrain the economy's growth rate. In other words, our obsession with "maximized short-term profits" is one reason the economy is suffering through this interminable period of slow growth.  That brings us back to Facebook. Over the last two years, to Wall Street's short-term dismay, Facebook has frequently announced that it was going to reduce its profits by investing aggressively for the long term. Each time Facebook has done this, Facebook's stock has temporarily tanked. And each time, as the investments have paid off, the stock has then recovered and moved on to a new high. In other words, by ignoring Wall Street's short-term profit obsession, Facebook is building its business — and stock value — for the long term. And, in the meantime, Facebook's aggressive investment is pumping cash back into the economy in the form of wages and the purchase of equipment and services from other companies. That last trend is not just good for Facebook. It's good for the global economy. So we should all tip our hats to Facebook. In short, Facebook isn't just dancing on Wall Street's puppet strings. It is focusing on creating value for the four constituencies that every great company should create value for: That's a great thing.  Not just for Facebook's customers, employees, and shareholders. But for the global economy, too. More companies need to think this way. And we should all celebrate the ones that do. SEE ALSO: Sorry, It's Not A "Law Of Capitalism" That You Pay People As Little As Possible Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through hispersonal investment company Bezos Expeditions. FREE AppDownload
There are a few truisms when it comes to music: Your parents will hate your musical choices as you will hate your kid's choices, and all songs could use more cowbell. However, when it comes to the business of music, there's been no worse time for the industry ever. Even the payola scandals of the 1950s cannot compare to the problems facing the music industry today: Nobody wants to pay for its product. The music industry has always been one of disruption in both content and delivery. Right now, music delivery is facing an epic battle. On one side is the digital download market dominated by Apple, and on the other is the streaming market led by Pandora, along with a host of other providers. The music industry — and artists — desperately need Apple to win. In short, Apple has the future of music in its hands. A shocking report from The Wall Street Journal gives insight into the digital download industry. According to insiders familiar with the matter, digital music sales at Apple's iTunes store has fallen 13%-14% worldwide during 2014. When compared to last year's global download revenue drop of 2.1%, it signifies that, not only is the dive continuing, it's accelerating. It isn't as if humans have stopped listening to music. Rather, they have found a new way to consume music — streaming-based music has disrupted the download/ownership model. The industry and artists are paid better from the download model. A recent Time article indicated that independent acts can make around $0.005 from music streamer Spotify as opposed to $0.07-$0.10 per download on iTunes — around 14-20 times more. Physical CD sales pay more, but have been falling for a decade. One reason for the low payments is the company's business model. Although Pandora has a premium subscription-based service, the vast majority of its users opt for the free version. The company monetizes those listeners by ad-based revenue, and has to balance this against its costs (read: artist payments). And with those costs pushing $300 million a year, the company is reticent to raise payments to artists. In addition to stepping up its marketing for its iTunes music download store --something bold, think free U2 record -- Apple has the ability to pay artists more per streaming song. And it does. When iTunes initially launched, it paid labels $0.01 more than Pandora paid. In addition, Apple agreed to pay labels 15% of net advertising revenue. And while iTunes Radio hasn't been the type of success that Apple fans are accustomed to, you can bet the music industry wants it to succeed. Apple also purchased a streaming-music service, Beats Music, with its purchase of Beats Audio. Apple is looking to integrate this subscription-only service into its iTunes Radio in some respect going forward. Industry executives fear digital downloads are declining due to a streaming model that is currently mostly ad-revenue based. One way to offset this decline is for streaming users to pay subscription fees that are ultimately more lucrative for labels and artists than ad-based streaming customers. Although Apple currently has an ad-free model for iTunes Radio, it really isn't a subscription model as far as the music industry is concerned. If Apple puts its weight behind the subscription-based model that Beats espouses, it may reinvigorate subscription-based music, which would benefit the music industry. The music industry is struggling, and it really needs the biggest seller of music in the world to execute. Tim Cook once said that, "music's always been at the heart of Apple." The music industry hopes Apple remembers that and returns the favor. One thing's for sure: The music industry is in desperate need of a positive disruption. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Library Of CongressThe stock market crash of October 29, 1929 is probably the scariest Halloween story you can tell a trader. On Wednesday, UBS's veteran trader Art Cashin recounted the tale of the infamous crash in his "Cashin's Comments" newsletter. He talked about how right before the crash, everyone (and most notably, "Harvard boys") assured everyone else that there was nothing to worry about. And then, the market completely bombed. You can read his whole scary, Halloween-themed tale here: On this day in 1929, there occurred what was, for more than half a century, possibly the most dramatic day in Wall Street history. The day before, a Monday, has been a disaster. (Monday's have a lousy record but the final Monday in October is the champion stinkeroo.) As you may recall, markets had originally been reassured by Thursday's dramatic bids into a falling market by Richard Whitney, on behalf of the Morgan inspired bankers' pool. And, they were further assured by calming words from "The Harvard Economic Society". Bank on the 19th they said — "... if recession should threaten serious consequences for business (as is not indicated at present) there is little doubt that the Reserve System would take steps to ease the money market and so check the movement." And, the day after Whitney's efforts the Harvard boys said about the severe slump in stocks "... will prove an intermediate movement and not the precursor of a business depression..." (It would appear that the belief in a "Fed Put" may be as old as the Fed itself.) Despite that, prices collapsed on Monday and Tuesday, the Harvard Economic Society doubted really dire consequences.  As late as October in 1931, their Journal foresaw "... an end of the decline and revival for the remainder of the year."  They might have said more but on this day (-2) in 1931 the Harvard Economic Society stopped publishing their Journal — for lack of funds. At any rate, on this Tuesday, traders were beginning to feel anxiety rather than reassurance.  Monday, as noted, had seen prices melt below the levels where the bankers’ pool had bot during Thursday's selloff. Piercing those levels had in fact brought in new nervous selling.  Later testimony would assert that the bankers pool, seeing capital evaporate, had pulled back to plug future air holes.  (Someone should read that record to regulators and academics who feel sell offs are a function of capital not sentiment.) With the 1929 version of a circuit breaker having been overrun, selling became intense.  Within the first half-hour volume exceeded 3 million shares.  After two hours it was over 8 million.  The selling was mindless.  "White Sewing" which had sold at "48" weeks before and had closed at 11 3/4 Monday traded at one dollar per share.  (Wall St. legend says the buyer was a page boy on the exchange floor who had put a "fun bid" in before the opening never dreaming he might actually "buy".)  With prices in near free-fall, exchange officials called a secret meeting of the Governing Committee at noon.  To preserve secrecy the meeting was held in the basement offices of the President of the Clearing House.  They had invited two Morgan Bank partners to hear the views from the bankers’ pool.  Unfortunately, to preserve secrecy they failed to tell security and the Morgan men were halted by a guard for over an hour.  "We're from the House of Morgan" the reply was probably "and I'm the king of bloomin' Siam".   By the time the Morgan partners were admitted, the market had begun to rally and trading was never halted. When the day ended, the tape was over four hours late and the volume over 16 million, a record that would stand for decades... "Luckily for the markets, the only resemblance between yesterday's inaction and 1929 was their position in the last week of October," Cashin said. "There was no crash on Wall Street yesterday.  For most of Tuesday, you needed a searchlight and a magnifying glass to find a downtick." FREE AppDownload
The ruble fell to a record low against the dollar and euro in early trading Wednesday despite a $2.5 billion intervention from the Russian central bank to prop up the currency. BloombergRuble vs the dollar. The Russian central bank has been forced to intervene once more in currency markets by using foreign exchange reserves to purchase rubles as the currency continued its slide. The ruble has fallen about 20% since January. Elvira Nabiullina, head of the bank, acknowledged earlier this month that if markets turned against the ruble it would not "be able to restrain them" but is nevertheless compelled to act to protect Russian businesses from the impact of sharp falls. Sharp falls hurt firms with foreign suppliers or foreign currency debt obligations and could further undermine already weak economic growth in the country. The Russian central bank has tried to smooth the transition to a weaker exchange rate through its interventions, but it is paying a high price. Russia's international reserve stockpile has fallen from $464.2 billion at the start of September to $443.8 billion as of Oct. 17, and it will have dropped even lower because of further intervention in recent days. As a signal of how big a problem the ruble's collapse has become for policymakers, the central bank announced plans to pump an additional $50 billion into the country's banking system through currency repo auctions (whereby the central bank exchanges rubles for dollars at a fixed rate). The first auction is scheduled to be held Wednesday. FREE AppDownload
ReutersJPMorgan CEO Jamie Dimon.JPMorgan Chase will not be building a $6.5 billion campus on the west side of Manhattan, reports Charles Bagli of the NY Times. It was going to be a thing of beauty. Two high-rise towers at Hudson Yards overlooking the river, accelerating the transformation of 10th Avenue from a wasteland of warehouses to another part of the city's pulse.  There were two problems with the deal. Firstly, Mayor Bill de Blasio said that the $1 billion package of tax breaks and incentives JPMorgan asked for was a "non-starter." The bank, in exchange, was to keep 16,000 people working in the city. "There was a discussion put forward to the city of a substantial amount of subsidy and, as deputy mayor (Alicia) Glen made very clear publicly, that's not on the table from the city's point of view," de Blasio said last week. So there was that. Secondly, and perhaps more importantly, was the deal for the land JPMorgan's headquarters would occupy. The two parcels in question were owned by Related Companies. But (from the NYT) ... Ultimately, Chase was unable to strike a deal with Related for the two parcels, known as 50 and 55 Hudson Yards. Related set an Oct. 15 deadline during weeks of negotiations. Rather than wait, Related struck a deal to sell a major stake in 55 Hudson Yards to a Japanese company. Related suggested that the bank build one tower and occupy half of a second skyscraper that Related is building nearby for Time Warner. And that would not do for JPMorgan. So the bank will stay where it is for now. For the full story, head to the NYT&gt; FREE AppDownload
YouTube/DRIVEFiat Chrysler is spinning off Ferrari and now its stock is surging. Shortly after the market open, shares of Fiat Chrysler trading in New York were up better than 15%.   In a statement, Fiat Chrysler said it will offer a 10% stake of Ferrari on the market and distribute the rest of the company to its shareholders.  Fiat CEO Sergio Marchionne said, "As we move forward to secure the 2014-2018 Business Plan and work toward maximizing the value of our businesses to our shareholders, it is proper that we pursue separate paths for FCA and Ferrari." Fiat Chrysler's board also mandated that management complete the spin off in 2015, and shares of Ferrari will be listed in both the US and another European market. FREE AppDownload
 Orbital Sciences' Antares rocket exploded shortly after takeoff Tuesday night. And now the company's shares are crashing as well. In premarket trade on Wednesday, Orbital Sciences shares were down more than 15% after the company's unmanned Antares rocket exploded shortly after taking off for the International Space Station with about 5,000 pounds of supplies. In a statement, Orbital Sciences said that shortly after takeoff the rocket experienced a "catastrophic failure." No was hurt in the incident.  This was the third mission for Orbital under an eight-mission, $1.9 billion contract with NASA.  In a statement, NASA official William Gerstenmaier said: "While NASA is disappointed that Orbital Sciences' third contracted resupply mission to the International Space Station was not successful [on Tuesday], we will continue to move forward toward the next attempt once we fully understand today's mishap. The crew of the International Space Station is in no danger of running out of food or other critical supplies." Gerstenmaier added: "Orbital has demonstrated extraordinary capabilities in its first two missions to the station earlier this year, and we know they can replicate that success." Here's the video of the explosion.   FREE AppDownload
  REUTERS/StringerA model presents a creation at the QIAODAN Yin Peng Sports Wear Collection show during China Fashion Week in Beijing on Tuesday. China's smog has seeped into high culture. Several fashionable gas masks made the runway at China Fashion Week in Beijing. The Chinese capital is currently at an orange air-pollution alert, which is the second-highest warning in the city’s color-coded alert system. Authorities monitor PM2.5 particulate matter, or tiny particles in the air that are the most hazardous to health. "Under orange-alert conditions, workers are ordered to stop construction, while factories must reduce emissions by at least 30%. Fireworks and outdoor barbecuing are also banned," The Wall Street Journal explained recently. "Children and the elderly are advised to stay indoors, and residents are encouraged to use public transportation instead of cars. Schools are urged to reduce outdoor activities." That says little about stylish civilians, who need to protect themselves while in public. QIAODAN Yin Peng Sports Wear is here to help: REUTERS/StringerREUTERS/StringerREUTERS/StringerREUTERS/Stringer And when one thinks about it, there is good reason to make surviving smog sexy. Just check out the smog:  REUTERS/Barry HuangThe sun sets above residential buildings on a hazy day in Beijing, Sept. 20.REUTERS/China Daily A half-naked participant wears a gas mask as he takes part in the "Guangzhu (naked) Run" with others on a hazy winter morning at the Olympic Forest Park in Beijing on Feb. 23.REUTERS/StringerAn electronic screen is seen on a building amid heavy smog in Shenyang, Liaoning province, on Tuesday. REUTERS/StringerA security guard next to a flower bed during a hazy day in Hefei, Anhui province, on March 30.REUTERS/Kim Kyung-HoonA woman on a hazy day in central Beijing on Oct. 9. (h/t @ChuBailing) FREE AppDownload
The stock is down 7.7% to $74.52 in early-morning trading.  Facebook reported that it earned $0.43 per share on $3.2 billion in revenue for the third quarter of the year. That was ahead of analyst expectations for $0.40 per share on $3.12 billion in revenue. The stock was fine on the earnings but started to slide during the company's earnings call. On the call, new CFO David Wehner delivered two bits of unpleasant news.  First, he said revenue for Q4 would be up by only 40% to 47% compared with the year prior. At the midpoint, that would be below analyst expectations. It's also a steep deceleration in growth. This quarter, revenue was up 59%, and the quarter before revenue was up 60%.  Next, he said that expenses would increase by 55% to 75% next year. The increase in expenses should hit Facebook's profitability, but it's part of Facebook's plan to invest for the future. This shouldn't be a surprise, but it was a jolt to investors. On the call, founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg said he had a three-year, a five-year, and a 10-year plan for various business lines at Facebook. To execute on those plans, Facebook will need to invest.  FREE AppDownload
JonesTrading's Dave Lutz has the run down of what traders are chatting about right now: Good Morning, and Happy Fed Day – announcement at 2pm (No presser), Street expecting dovish and will retain the ‘considerable time’ language.   Right now futures are off slightly, led by a 25bp drop in Nasdaq as FB off 7%, GILD 2% on #s.   EU Stocks remain near 3week highs and the DAX is adding 70bp, and volume slightly better, but still 10% light to recent averages as Financials still see selling pressure from stress tests, with SX7E on lows, off 1.4%.    Over in Asia, Russia’s MICEX is up 70bp, despite the ruble falling to yet another low against the dollar - China popped 1.5% to 5week highs on reports the PBoC injected liquidity - Nikkei jumped 1.4% as Japanese IP came in better, and Aussie closes lower despite a bounce in the miners, as the big banks were under pressure.  The 10YY is off small in the USA – more telling is the continued tightening of PIIGS paper to Bunds.   The DXY remains just below 4Y highs, rallying above Y108 (watch for gaps from stops above 108.4), but losing ground small against Euro (Positioning trimming into Fed).  Looking at some metrics into the Fed – US 5Y Breakevens still around 3Y lows, and Fed Fund Futures remain at Dec ’15 for the 1st hike (Was Sept last meeting).   We are finally seeing the Europeans and Asians buying Oil, with Brent and WTI up 1% into DOE inventories – More reports of heavy Chinese buying.    Keep an eye on the worst energy commodity over the last week, Natty Gas, as contracts expire today, and reports are for possible snow this weekend in the Northeast (Crowded Short).    Metals are mixed, and we continue to see the cover happening in Grains and Beans – both still very crowded shorts as well….  Scheduled catalysts include U.S. Housing Vacancies at 10, DOE data for Crude at 10:30, 1 $15B 2Y floater auction at 11:30, a $35B 5Y auction at 1, and the FOMC Rate Decision (No Presser) at 2.   After the close, Brazil and New Zealand update interest rates.  Some trades I’m watching for:  DXJ/EWJ into Friday’s BOJ economic assessment – expected to downgrade economy, putting the next consumption tax hike at risk – Bullish, but starting to get crowded // EUFN probably getting a bit washed out - PIIGS paper tightening to Bunds shows the Credit Market not worried about systemic risk from Stress tests // Keep watching the cover in Oil Stocks (OIH, XOP and XLE) - Total, Statoil both disappointed, but shares in rally mode // Builders (ITB) keep making legs over 200dma, and nearing high end of its recent range. FREE AppDownload
The Russian ruble fell to record lows against the euro and the dollar on Wednesday. Bloomberg TV's Tom Keene uses Dostoevsky's "Crime and Punishment" to describe what's going on. When Business Insider asked Keene for what he considered to be the most important chart in the world, he sent us a long-term chart of the crashing ruble. It goes all the way back to the 1998 Russian financial crisis. In his words: "Here is USD-RUB with a decimal-point-shift depreciation, call it 4.10 to 41.0. Much was accomplished within the yellow rectangle ... a painful devaluation. From here? My particular question with currency angst always, always comes from domestic surprise. With Russia, the calculus is evermore complex. For 2015, USD-RUB 45 or 50 or 55 may be crime and punishment, enough." Tom Keene FREE AppDownload
The Westpac MNI Chinese consumer sentiment survey is out and it shows that the fall in confidence has “accelerated” over the past month. The index showed that consumers had “further downgraded their views on employment, the housing market and the state of their personal finances,” Westpac said in the release accompanying the survey results. In a clear sign that the consumer sector, perhaps the broader Chinese economy, is faltering the survey showed broad-based weakness across all 5 components of the survey. The best performing sector was respondents view of their current personal finances – but even it fell 1% on the month while “consumers’ willingness to buy large household goods hit a series low.” This is an unequivocally poor outcome for the series and shows the challenges ahead for the Chinese economy and a growing need for the PBOC to consider broader stimulus measures if growth is not going to slip below 7% soon. Indeed the fact that “Employment Outlook Indicator” fell for the fifth month in a row, to levels not seen since the Chinese New Year period in 2009 – when reports were that more than 20 million workers went home for the holidays and didn’t return to work – highlights just how weak the outlook might have become. Westpac’s senior international economist Huw McKay said that with the deterioration in sentiment the economy was reliant entirely on export as the engine of growth and the time for stimulus was now. This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
It’s one of the few certainties of life: Every generation is somehow baffling to the one that came before it. To help us older folks better understand kids today, Credit Suisse’s fifth annual Youth Barometer Survey asked more than 1,000 people between the ages of 16 and 25 in Brazil, Singapore, Switzerland, and the United States about their goals, ambitions, and preferences. Some of the findings are exactly what you’d expect from the first generation of digital natives – more than 40 percent of young people in Brazil, Singapore, and the U.S. spend more than three hours per day online, for example. But a closer look reveals some truly surprising insights. Materialism lives – but not everywhere.  Young workers are idealistic about their careers, both in terms of where and how they want to work.  Money still talks – just more loudly in some places than others. Fifty-nine percent of Singaporean youths say making as much money as possible is an important career goal, while 70 percent of Brazilians value achieving a better standard of living than their parents. Ask Swiss youth the same questions, though, and just 29 percent and 31 percent of them, respectively, feel the same way. Switzerland’s 8.4 percent youth unemployment rate, the lowest of the four nations, surely makes it easier to emphasize other priorities, but the difference is still stark. There’s more agreement, mind you, when it comes to those other priorities. Youth in all four countries say achieving work-life balance is their most important career goal, while more than 70 percent say it is important to work for an environmentally friendly firm. No apron strings here.  In the West, young people have often been characterized as spoiled and sheltered by overprotective parents. But only 30 percent of respondents in Brazil, Singapore and the U.S. say they can fall back on their parents if they fail to achieve their goals. Switzerland, where 53 percent of youth can ask mom and dad for help if they need it, is an outlier. Americans are looking inward…  American business may be going global, but American youth are less interested than others in doing the same. Just 67 percent of U.S. youngsters say they want to work at a company that offers training or job placements abroad, compared to around 90 percent in the other three countries. Likewise, just 42 percent of Americans want to work for a large, multinational corporation, compared to 73 percent in Switzerland, 79 percent in Brazil, and 81 percent in Switzerland. …and Brazilians are fed up.  The widespread student-led protests before the World Cup weren’t an anomaly. Eighty-six percent of young Brazilians aren’t proud of their country, 81 percent believe the government often fails on important issues, and 78 percent say the political system is in need of fundamental reform. Fully half of Brazil’s young people agree that the future of society is “rather bleak.” American cynicism ranks a distant second, with 33 percent of young people saying they aren’t proud of their country, 42 percent saying the government often fails on policy, and 28 percent wishing for fundamental reform.  So much for sex, drugs, and rock ‘n’ roll. Youth has always been more focused than their elders on what’s cool and what’s not. So what’s “in?” What’s “out?”  Smoking made the Top 10 list of uncool behavior in all four countries, with sentiment particularly strong in Brazil (60 percent) and Singapore (55 percent). Thirty-two percent of Brazilians say engaging in many sexual encounters is passé, whereas twice that — 64 percent — said the same of taking drugs. The digital realm, however, is unquestionably cool. Smartphones, email, and downloading music get high marks in every country. And authenticity still counts. “Being yourself and not pretending to be someone else” made the top 10 “in” list everywhere but Singapore. Texting is so 2013.  Messaging service WhatsApp has exploded in popularity since last year’s survey – except in the United States, where the company was founded and has its headquarters. Fully 80 percent of Swiss youth say it’s their favorite or second-favorite way to communicate, up from 66 percent in 2013, and compared to just 4 percent in the U.S. Don’t call them uninformed.  At least 60 percent of respondents in all four countries say they check in on current events at least once a day. But only Switzerland’s young people have held on to the quaint tradition of newsprint – 29 percent list free and paid newspapers as their favorite news sources. FREE AppDownload
Most people know they should ask questions at the end of a job interview, but what do you ask? We found some answers. Produced by Matt JohnstonFollow BI Video: On Facebook  
Vasily Fedosenko/ReutersUkraine may be close to an agreement on gas with Russia.Good morning! Here are the major stories making waves in global financial markets early Wednesday.  The Fed Decision Is Coming. The Federal Reserve announces its latest monetary policy decision at 2 p.m. ET, with the final tapering installment and the end of QE3 expected.  The Ruble Is Pushing To Fresh Lows. The ruble fell to a record low against the dollar and euro in early trading Wednesday despite a $2.5 billion intervention from the Russian central bank to prop up the currency. Algeria Has Started Selling Light Crude Oil To Venezuela. That’s helping to prop up demand for oil as the price falls from Algeria’s perspective, but it’s a clear symbol of Venezuela’s decline.  Facebook Is Taking A Beating. Facebook execs warned that 2015 would be a big year of investment for the company, and the share price dropped 10% in after-hours trading.  Deutsche Bank Just Posted A $117 Million Loss And Replaced Its CFO. Deutsche Bank reported a quarterly net loss of 92 million euros on Wednesday as heavy legal costs outweighed a rise in investment banking earnings. There’s A 50% Chance Of Russia-Ukraine Gas Deal. Guenther Oettinger told Germany's ZDF TV that a lot had been achieved so far in the three-way negotiations, but when asked what the chances were of a breakthrough, he answered: "Fifty percent." Nintendo Beat Analyst Forecasts. The long-struggling Japanese video game maker Nintendo eked out an unexpected operating profit in its fiscal second quarter, bolstering hopes it may be on track for its first annual profit in four years. Hitachi Profits Surged. Hitachi said Wednesday its net profit for the six months to September nearly tripled to $850 million as the Japanese giant hiked its full-year earnings forecast. Volkswagen Recalls Over 270,000 Audi Cars. Volkswagen’s Chinese joint venture will recall 270,635 Audi cars in China because of an air bag software issue, China's quality watchdog said Wednesday.  Markets Are Rallying. In Europe, Germany’s DAX is up 0.77%, France’s CAC 40 is up 0.33%, and the UK’s FTSE 100 is up 0.75%. Asian markets saw significant gains, with the Nikkei up 1.46% and the Hang Seng up 1.27%. FREE AppDownload
What a difference a week makes. After a significant sell-off the week before, stocks staged a strong rebound last week. Now, with a seeming shift in sentiment, where do we see value in the market as we look ahead? As I write in this week’s commentary, I would point to two areas to watch. One is a country we have favored for some time, while the other is a sector that looks more attractive following the sell-off and lower energy prices and interest rates. Japan. We have had a preference for Japan for some time. Japanese stocks surged last Monday (up nearly 4%) and continued to build on those gains throughout the week. We think the rally can continue. Here’s why: The rally was sparked by news that Japan’s Government Pension Investment Fund (GPIF), the world’s largest pension fund, would more than double its allocation to domestic stocks, from 12% of its portfolio to 25%, potentially as soon as this month. Other Japanese institutions are likely to follow suit. Stock purchases by major institutions should cause prices to rise and be a catalyst for further gains. As such, we remain positive on Japanese equities. Consumer discretionary stocks. Meanwhile, investors also might want to take a new look at the U.S. consumer discretionary sector. We have been cautious on this sector all year. Indeed, a combination of sluggish income growth, below-trend spending and high valuations has resulted in significant under-performance: The sector is down year-to-date versus a 6% gain for the S&amp;P 500. However, even though income growth is likely to remain lackluster, consumer spending could well be boosted going forward by lower energy prices and the recent drop in interest rates, which has pushed 30-year mortgage rates back down to 4%. These developments, coupled with stronger economic growth in the second half, suggest that consumer stocks are likely to come under less pressure, prompting us to move back toward a benchmark weight in this sector. There was no single catalyst for the rally last week. Equities benefited from new stimulus from the European Central Bank (ECB), positive economic data out of China, the expectation for more equity purchases by Japanese pension funds and better-than-expected earnings in the United States. But going forward, I think stocks can make further gains, and would continue to favor Japanese equities while adopting a more positive stance on U.S. consumer stocks. FREE AppDownload
UK Land RegistryClick to enlarge.The Bank of England released new figures Wednesday providing more evidence that fears of a bubble in housing prices have been overblown. Property prices in the UK have risen sharply since hitting post-crisis lows in 2011. Over the past year alone prices have risen by 7.2% across the country, with London prices up an astonishing 18.4%. Much of this is due to deferred demand from the crisis, with many people putting off home moves while the economy was weak, and over-enthusiasm that we could be returning to the halcyon days of the pre-crisis housing market boom. However, September saw a reversal of this trend with a modest monthly fall in prices, and new data from the Bank of England suggests there may be further weakness to come. The number of loans granted against dwellings in September fell to 101,008, down from 105,816 in August. The value of mortgage loans over that period fell to £10 billion from £10.3 billion, with remortgages falling by a similar amount. Bank of England The slowdown should come as little surprise. Other than a short-lived pickup in the middle of the year, the number of home loans granted in the UK has been in decline since the start of 2014. This was initially attributed to the market's response to tighter lending standards imposed under the Financial Conduct Authority's Mortgage Market Review, which came into effect in April. Under the regulation, lenders are responsible for assessing whether a customer can afford the loan they offered at average interest rates, and banks are required to verify the customer's income before the loan can be granted. (Previously, buyers simply stated their income with little verification.) The regulator has subsequently been backed up the Bank of England's own Financial Policy Committee, and that committee has been given the power by the chancellor to place limits on loan-to-value and debt-to-income levels in residential mortgage lending if it sees fit. The gradual cooling is precisely the kind of impact that the new regulation is supposed to lead to as tighter lending standards prevent market over-enthusiasm becoming self-fulfilling. However, they cannot address underlying mismatches between supply and demand in highly desirable areas of the country like London. Nor do they help buyers overcome the rising affordability problem — house price growth is outstripping wage rises. As the Bank of England put it earlier this month: It is not the FPC’s role to control house prices, nor can it address underlying structural issues related to the supply of houses. Its role, as set out by Parliament, is to manage risks to financial stability, including from the build-up of unsustainable levels of leverage, debt or credit growth. The recommendation in this statement will allow it to fulfill that role in relation to the housing market. FREE AppDownload
Alex Wong/Getty ImagesMary Jo White, chairwoman of the SEC.(Reuters) - Hedge funds and other rapid-fire investors get access to market-moving documents before other users of the Securities and Exchange Commission's system for distributing company filings, giving them a possible edge on the rest of the market, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing two independent studies. The two sets of researchers have been examining when paying subscribers receive SEC filings compared with when they become available on the agency's website, the newspaper reported. They found a wide variation in the lag time, from no delay to one lasting more than a minute. The ability to get the information before it is on the SEC website can give traders extra seconds to act on the news, WSJ said. The studies focus on the SEC's Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval system, or Edgar, which is used to disseminate earnings reports and other documents filed to the regulator. Representatives for the SEC were not immediately available to comment on the report outside regular U.S. business hours. However, an SEC spokeswoman told the Journal that the agency has reviewed the working paper and was conducting a thorough assessment of the dissemination process to make necessary systems modifications. A book by best-selling author Michael Lewis that asserted equities markets are rigged by high-frequency traders - who can dip in and out of markets in fractions of a second - triggered renewed regulatory scrutiny earlier this year. The SEC for the past few years has been investigating high-speed traders and others for potential concerns about manipulation or other practices that may give some market players an unfair advantage. (Reporting by Supriya Kurane in Bangalore; Editing by Gopakumar Warrier) FREE AppDownload
A new video shows what it’s like to be a woman who is harassed by catcallers just walking down the street. The video, which we first saw on Gothamist, was shot to draw attention to Hollaback!, a nonprofit dedicated to ending street harassment, and was directed and produced by Rob Bliss Creative.  He filmed New York-based actress Shoshana B. Roberts with a hidden camera walking through New York City over the course of 10 hours wearing jeans and a crew neck T-shirt. As she walks down the street — minding her own business — men feel entitled to yell things at her, telling her to “smile,” “have a good day,” and “God bless you."  One of the scariest moments in the two-minute video is when a man walks silently alongside her for over five minutes, even though she says nothing the entire time and is visibly uncomfortable.  In total she encounters over 100 instances of verbal street harassment during her 10-hour walk through NYC. The video says this doesn’t include the winks, whistles, and non-verbal harassment Roberts also faced.  The project is a shocking reminder of how common street harassment is and offers a glimpse of what women face on a daily basis. Written by Megan Willett. Check out the work of Robert Bliss Creative here &gt; And follow the Hollaback! campaign &gt;
If there had been any doubt, the third quarter seems to have proved what many investors have been fearing all year long: the Chinese economy is experiencing a structural slowdown. Data released this week showed year-on-year growth of 7.3 percent in the July-to-September period. On the one hand, it’s quite impressive; few countries boast growth levels anywhere near that. On the other, it’s a reversal; after unexpectedly accelerating in the previous quarter, during which it grew 7.5 percent, and third-quarter growth was the weakest in more than five years, a reflection of a sluggish real estate market and weakening domestic demand. It also increases the likelihood that the world’s second-largest economy will miss its annual growth target—set by the government at 7.5 percent—for the first time since 1998. Two key parts of the economy—namely, exports and a property market that represents around one quarter of GDP—are simultaneously slowing after a decade of growth. Residential property sales are in complete reversal, and fell 10.8 percent in the first nine months of this year. Worse, there are no new sources of growth in the economy to compensate for the weakness. E-commerce is growing and renewable energy could spark the economy down the road, but neither is sizeable enough at present to act as a counterbalance. As a result, China’s economy will likely keep decelerating—fourth-quarter growth is forecast at 7.2 percent—and will continue on that path next year, according to Credit Suisse analysts Dong Tao and Weishen Deng. “The problems in the economy remain unsolved,” they write in an October 21 report. The silver lining in it all: the main challenge for Chinese policymakers today is managing the adjustment to a new paradigm of lower growth, rather than preparing for a crisis. Economic growth has slowed gradually, rather than crashing, suggesting that the country might yet avoid a hard landing. Concerns at the start of the year that trusts and wealth management funds could default have fallen away, as there appear to be no looming issues that threaten to destabilize the financial system. One confidence booster: the government has both the motivation—and the means—to arrest any steeper decline that might materialize with a substantial stimulus package. It has room, for example, to cut either its reserve requirement ratio or real interest rate. The central government could also take on large amounts of debt if necessary, which would make up for the more limited borrowing capability of local governments. Credit Suisse actually expects the central bank to cut the reserve requirement ratio or increase the loan deposit ratio in the fourth quarter, which could help make up for more tepid investment by local governments and bank lending. A handful of short-term indicators are also blinking positive. Exports rose a better-than-expected 15.3 percent in September from a year earlier, while imports rose 7 percent, suggesting China is both benefitting from a strengthening U.S. economy and experiencing domestic demand that’s not as weak as anticipated. Industrial production rose a better-than-expected 8 percent in September, as auto production and computer manufacturing improved from August. All the while, the government continues to implement economic reform measures aimed at boosting private investment, government revenue and productivity. Credit Suisse expects the government to start more rail and subway projects in the fourth quarter, which would mean increased investment and more jobs. The bottom line? Chinese equities may not be as unattractive as the bears might think. Indeed, the bulls have been in charge of late, as the Shanghai Composite Index rose 16 percent between July 21 and October 8, and hit an 18-month high earlier this month amid optimism about the government’s reforms. There also remain a few straight-up growth stories in the equity market, including “new economy” stocks in healthcare, Internet and some consumer sectors. Still, it’s important to be realistic. China was never going to be able to maintain the breakneck growth trajectory that had already lasted longer than expected. And the transition is now. “China’s growth,” Tao and Deng point out, “is moving to a new norm.” FREE AppDownload
MOSCOW (Reuters) - An offer by Gazprom to help rival Rosneft salvage an Arctic oil project shows how tightly sanctions have bound Russia's political and business elite together in the Ukraine crisis - an unintended consequence of the West's punitive measures. Some Gazprom executives now say this month's little noticed proposal to loan Rosneft a drilling rig was "theoretical". It was quietly made after U.S. sanctions put in doubt a project with ExxonMobil to drill for oil in the Kara Sea. The offer was certainly surprising. The relationship between the two state run firms has long been strained. Most recently Gazprom, successor to the Soviet gas ministry, has been worried by Rosneft's ambition to increase its gas output having become Russia's biggest oil producer, borne out in an intensifying price war for domestic gas consumers. The mere suggestion that such rivals could cooperate to reduce the impact of sanctions is one of the strongest signals yet of how, after seven months, Western measures are having the opposite effect to the one intended. Far from dividing those closest to President Vladimir Putin, they have forced the main players in the energy sector to rally behind him. This circle has by necessity become more focused, Western and Russian businessmen, diplomats and politicians said. "They are defiant," said a senior Western businessman who has access to some of the business and political leaders targeted by sanctions. He asked not to be identified because of the political sensitivity of the subject. "The sanctions have brought consolidation and have made his inner circle only more dependent on him." The influence of more liberal thinkers in the government has been curtailed, sources close to decision-making say, including in the vital energy sector. The already small inner core of decision-makers has shrunk even further. "We underestimated the Russian reaction," said a Western envoy based in Moscow who spoke on condition of anonymity. This envoy and some other Western diplomats say, however, the U.S. and European Union sanctions have not had their full impact yet. As evidence, they point to Russia's growing economic problems as the rouble slides and recession looms.  REUTERS/Sergei KarpukhinRussia's Prime Minister Vladimir Putin (L) speaks after a document signing ceremony as Gazprom's Chief Executive Alexey Miller (C) and then-Deputy Prime Minister Igor Sechin (R) stand behind in Moscow, January 19, 2009. When the West took aim at Russia's energy producers, the sanctions struck at the heart of Putin's economic powerbase. Russia, the world’s largest energy exporter, relies on oil and gas exports for about half its federal budget. Even before coming to power, Putin had outlined his vision of "national champions" - resource companies under the control of the state - that could fund the reconstruction of Russia's military and society after the chaos of the 1990s. Gazprom was already in place, a Soviet-era monolith. Putin started installing a new team at the company a year after coming to power in 2000. He drafted in Dmitry Medvedev, now Russia's prime minister, and Alexei Miller, now Gazprom's CEO. Putin also helped build Rosneft, mostly from Yukos, the oil firm that the courts seized from Mikhail Khodorkovsky in 2003. Rosneft and Gazprom are both headed by Putin allies - Miller at Gazprom and Igor Sechin at Rosneft. Both men hail from St Petersburg, where Putin started his political career after serving in the KGB. But there is no obvious friendship between the men. They barely look at each other at public functions and are conspicuously silent about each other. In a surprising commentary four years ago, Sechin criticized Gazprom for being too slow in Asia and said it should raise its game. While the sanctions are unlikely to end the underlying tensions that have long defined Putin's small team of advisers, they are concentrating minds, the businessman said. With no access to funds from Western banks or companies, those running the main state oil companies are bound even closer to Putin as they hope to win money from some of Russia's rainy day funds. APPutin with Igor Sechin (right) A U.S. official who spoke on condition of anonymity in September said the U.S. and EU sanctions targeting delivery of oil technology, goods and services to Russia were intended to make it all but impossible for Moscow to tap new oil sources. The sanctions were the latest in a package of moves by the United States and the EU over Russia's policies in Ukraine. They also targeted those closest to Putin, labeled "Putin's cronies" by one senior U.S. official. These included Sechin, who was subject to asset freezes and visa bans. Washington and Brussels hoped to create rifts in Putin's inner circle and persuade his allies to press for a change in policy towards Ukraine, where Moscow has annexed the Crimea peninsula and backed separatists in the east. Though the euphoria that rallied Russians behind Putin over Crimea is expected to wear off, most in Putin's inner circle have said they wear the badge of sanctions with pride. For his part, Putin showed his contempt for the West and determination not to bow to sanctions in a speech on Friday, accusing Washington of putting the world order at risk. In May, Sechin dismissed the sanctions imposed on him as "theoretical" saying he did not have property or accounts in the United States. But measures affecting exploration in the Arctic and development of shale deposits have incensed him, several gas executives have said. He believes politics should not be mixed with business, said a source close to the Rosneft boss. The fact the sanctions so clearly targeted the drilling project with ExxonMobil in the Kara Sea was not lost on the Russian oilman. After continuing work following earlier rounds of sanctions, the round in September sent a clear message that Exxon must finally stop its work, said one U.S. lawyer who spoke on condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity. The source close to Sechin said Rosneft and Putin were determined "the show will go on" to prove to the West they can drill for new oil without U.S. or EU expertise. Russia's Energy Ministry was told "to do anything to make it work", the source said, meaning that work would continue on the Bazhenov shale deposits in west Siberia and the offshore fields in the Arctic. Rosneft said it would continue drilling in the Kara Sea and it could develop 99 percent of its tight (shale) oil reserves by itself "thanks to having the necessary expertise and technology, and also preferential tax treatment". Dmitry Peskov, Putin's spokesman, also said the sanctions could not stop drilling in the Arctic. "They may influence it in a negative way, but they are unable to stop it." REUTERS/Aleksey Nikolskyi/RIA Novosti/Pool Russia's President Vladimir Putin (R) meets with Gazprom's Chief Executive Alexei Miller at the Novo-Ogaryovo residence outside Moscow, October 29, 2012. Even if the sanctions are lifted late this year or early next, Exxon may not be able to resume work quickly in the Kara Sea because of the long lead times for getting contracts ready. The company would need to start that process now - getting the logistics in place - to be able to drill in the two/three-month window from August to October next year when the ice melts allowing Exxon to bring a rig in and also to drill. Exxon declined to comment. Since winding down its operations to comply with sanctions, Exxon has now towed the rig, called West Alpha, away. According to satellite images, the rig returned to its yard in western Norway on Oct. 17. Without a rig built to work in the freezing environment of the Arctic, Putin's and Sechin's ambition of developing Arctic oil reserves that could cost hundreds of billions of dollars would be have to suspended. Enter Gazprom. Earlier this month, the company was quoted as saying by Russian media that its Arkticheskaya rig could be used to continue drilling in the Kara Sea next year if it was needed. Vsevolod Cherepanov, a member of Gazprom's management board, later said there was a technical possibility but that the rig was now working for Russia's second largest oil producer Lukoil. Other Gazprom executives said they could probably not spare it. Sechin avoided answering when asked by Reuters whether Rosneft would take up the offer, but said: "We will continue drilling in any case, on our own ... If partners take part - that's good, if they can't - we will carry on alone." Council on Foreign Relations (Additional reporting by Vladimir Soldatkin, Denis Pinchuk and Alexei Anishchuk, and Gwladys Fouche in Oslo; editing by Janet McBride) FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's BlogAll of a sudden, everyone seems to be bearish on oil and bullish on its implications for the economy. That’s fine with me since I started to speculate about a big downside move in the price of a barrel of Brent crude oil to $75 in mid-September. It was around $95 back then. On Monday, with the price around $85, I discussed some reasons why it might not have much more downside. Lower prices might be even too painful for the Saudis, who might reduce their output. The Chinese have been bargain hunting at these prices. In any event, the drop in the price of gasoline and heating oil is a nice and early holiday present that could boost holiday retail sales. The national average pump price of gasoline has dropped 53 cents from this year’s peak of $3.70 a gallon during the week of July 2 to $3.17 in mid-October. The futures price suggests it will fall below $3.00 in the next couple of weeks. That’s certainly helping to boost the Consumer Confidence Index. I average it with the Consumer Sentiment Index to derive our Consumer Optimism Index. My derived index rose during October to the highest reading since September 2007. Interestingly, the Consumer Confidence Index among respondents under 35 years old soared during October to the highest since December 2006. This group’s confidence typically exceeds that of the older groups. I’m not sure why it surged so much for the younger crowd. Maybe they drive more. Maybe they are happier than others that jobs are less hard to find. In any event, they tend to form households. They buy houses, furniture, and cars, especially when they are optimistic. Dr. Ed's BlogToday's Morning Briefing: Considerable Time. (1) FOMC likely to treat rather than trick. (2) Fed officials were probably spooked by recent market turmoil. (3) QE has been terminated, until further notice. (4) FOMC has to fear stoking current melt-up. (5) Fed policy is market dependent. (6) Rosengren denies Fed’s role in wealth and income inequality. (7) No exit for central banks from ultra-easy monetary policy for a considerable time. (8) The “one and done” scenario. (9) Long expansion scenario would justify higher P/Es until it doesn’t. (10) Focus on market-weight-rated S&amp;P 500 Industrials. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
Get ready to say goodbye to QE3. The Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) concludes its meeting on Wednesday. Almost all analysts are expecting an on-time end of the taper of asset purchases to be announced, as well as the Fed to keep its “considerable time” language regarding the period before the first rate increase. This is despite the fact that earlier this month, St. Louis Fed President James Bullard suggested that the Fed could consider continuing quantitative easing past the end of the month (when it has previous said it will wrap up the taper).  Quantitative easing, or QE, is the Fed's program of buying up a ton of assets to stimulate the economy more than a central bank could normally do through interest rate policy.  Before Bullard’s comments, the San Francisco Fed’s John Williams told Reuters that he would be open to another round of asset purchases if inflation did not start moving higher. "If inflation isn't moving above 1.5 (percent) and we get stuck into that gear, that would argue for a later liftoff," he said, also noting that a continued lack of wage growth might be a factor in the decision. In an Oct. 17 interview, the Boston Fed’s Eric Rosengren said that, regarding worries of sluggish economic growth, “it’s not clear to me that continuing QE would necessarily be the best way to address concern.” In a Bank of America Merrill Lynch note, Ethan Harris says, “The bottom-line is: fade Bullard; follow Rosengren.” Expectations on wages and inflation is a point of disagreement among FOMC members. From the minutes of the committee’s September meeting: “Participants' views on the responsiveness of inflation to the level and change in resource utilization varied, with a few seeing labor markets as sufficiently tight that wages and prices would soon begin to move up noticeably but with some others indicating that inflation was unlikely to approach 2 percent until the unemployment rate falls below its longer-run normal level.” Since then, BLS reported that real average hourly earnings fell 0.2 percent in September from August. Here’s what inflation looks like, using both CPI and PCE, which the Fed prefers:  Federal Reserve Other economic indicators are strong, though. The economy added 248,000 jobs in September, and the unemployment rate fell below 6% (to 5.9%) for the first time in more than six years. The latest revision of second-quarter GDP growth was up to 4.6%. Capital Economics projects that third-quarter GDP growth was probably about 3.3% annualized. Jan Hatzius at Goldman Sachs generally thinks the Fed will stay the course, only slightly revising its language on the labor market more positively. He wrote in a note that “our analysis suggests that recent developments should have a limited effect on the Fed’s baseline expectation for growth in the near-term, although downside risks to inflation are more pronounced.” Analysts generally expect that the fed funds rate will stay between zero and 0.25%. There will be no news conference with Fed Chair Janet Yellen. FREE AppDownload
But marketers and advertisers had plenty of reasons to be excited by the future Facebook the company described in both its earnings release and call. Here’s a few of the key outtakes: DAILY ACTIVE USERS Facebook’s daily active users continue to grow all over the world. Overall, DAUs were up 19% year on year to 864 million. Facebook had 1.35 billion monthly active users, up 39% year over year.Facebook MOBILE GROWTH  That growth continues into mobile. Facebook posted its first billion dollar mobile quarter. Mobile revenue represented 66% of advertising revenue in the third quarter, up from approximately 49% of revenue in the same quarter last year. Think mobile-first if you're advertising on Facebook. THE COST OF ADS  The average price per ad rose 274% year on year, while total ad impressions were down 56%. Basically, although it's becoming more expensive to buy any single ad, that means each of those ads is becoming more effective because there are fewer of them. Advertisers love that. Facebook says the increase in the price of ads was driven primarily by the redesign of its right-hand column ads, which it claims “resulted in larger, more engaging ads that delivered more value to marketers and thus had higher reflective prices.” Those right-hand column ads were also fewer in number, partly due to the shift in usage to mobile where those ads don’t appear. What makes that takeaway all the more interesting is that Google’s advertising has been working in the opposite way. In Q3 the average cost per click across Google sites decreased 2% year on year, while the number of paid clicks increased 17%.  FacebookFACEBOOK GROUPS  One of the often-overlooked facilities of Facebook is performing really well: Groups. More than 700 million people are using Groups ever month. Groups may seem like archaic forums (and Facebook may eventually be trying to eradicate Groups altogether with the launch of its standalone Rooms app) but the majority of its users are using them in some way. It could be a key area for marketers to start thinking about using to have conversations with their consumers — not least because organic reach of pages is now so low. INSTAGRAM ENGAGEMENT  Globally, Instagram users are on the app 21 minutes a day on average. That is a massive engagement figure for a single app that has limited use cases and highlights why brands should begin looking at their Instagram strategies, if they haven’t already. But, Facebook once again reiterated that it is continuing to roll out advertising deliberately “slowly.” The same slow pace will be mirrored for Facebook’s auto-play video advertising rollout. The company doesn’t want to upset users by ramping up advertising too quickly, it would rather they get used to these kinds of brand ads first. TARGETING  Facebook claims its age and gender targeting is “45% more accurate than the industry average.” Most targeting on the internet is largely based on guesswork, but the fact that users share lots of information when they register with Facebook, means it has a far more accurate idea of who they are. AtlasThe Facebook Atlas conversion funnelATLAS  On the earnings call, Facebook spent a fair chunk of time promoting Atlas, the platform bought from Microsoft and relaunched in September this year to implement and measure their ads’ effectiveness across the web and multiple devices. Atlas is one of Facebook's steps toward what it calls "people based marketing." Facebook highlighted the efforts it is undertaking to improve measurement for marketers, using Atlas. COO Sheryl Sandberg derided measurement systems that “over emphasize” the value of the last click. “This does not make sense, given that studies of Facebook campaigns show that over 90% of ad-driven in-store sales come from people who saw an ad but didn’t click on it.” Atlas identifies as a user skips from device to device then ultimately — and securely, without passing on to Facebook or marketers who an individual person is — links marketing to in-store sales. Facebook says it has had “productive conversations” about Atlas with many marketers and agencies and it is “pleased” with their interest. FURTHER ADTECH INVESTMENTS  Elsewhere, Facebook also plans to make additional investments in improving other areas of its adtech stack, like the LiveRail video ad platform it bought earlier this year, which allows publishers to personalize ads via their apps and websites using Facebook data. Sandberg wanted to emphasize the investments it is making in adtech are large and strategy investments for the long-term. Facebook is a huge, but limited in terms of inventory. Its adtech investments help it expand its presence beyond the Facebook platform across the entire stretch of the desktop and mobile web. She added: “We recognize that by staffing engineers in these strategic adtech areas, we forego shorter-term product improvements which would generate revenue quickly.” SEARCH  Search is not a short-term priority, so marketers should continue concentrating their search strategies outside of Facebook for now. CEO Mark Zuckerberg said its products only become “interesting” once they reach 1 billion+ users, and search is not there yet and that the company would not try to aggressively monetize it for at least two years. VIDEO  Despite saying video advertising will continue on its slow trajectory, “video is a very big priority,” according to Zuckerberg. In particular, it looks as though Facebook will be trying to encourage more public figures and news outlets to use the Facebook platform to distribute their videos — great for brands with celebrity ambassadors. Zuckerberg said Facebook will share more video stats soon (video views on Facebook reached 1 billion in Q3). FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersNEW YORK (Reuters) - The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is examining how private equity firms report a key metric of their past performance when they market new funds to investors, as the regulator boosts its scrutiny of the industry, according to people familiar with the matter. At issue is how private equity firms report how they calculate average net returns in past funds in their marketing materials, the sources said. Net returns, also known as the net internal rate of return (IRR) and an indicator of investors' actual profits, deduct private equity fund investors' fees and expenses from a fund's gross profits. Private equity fees are not standard and different investors in the same fund can pay different fees. Fund investors such as pension funds, insurance companies and wealthy individuals – known as limited partners - pay the fees to the private equity firm. The private equity firm and its managers, called general partners, also typically invest some of their own money into the funds, but don't pay any fees.   Including the general partner's money in the average net returns can inflate the fund's average net performance figure, and the SEC is investigating whether private equity fund managers properly disclose whether they are doing that or not, the sources said. An SEC spokeswoman declined to comment. The SEC's focus on the average net IRR disclosures, which has not been previously reported, marks a new phase in the agency's efforts to regulate private equity and comes at a time when the industry is already under pressure from investors to simplify its fees and expenses structure. The emphasis on performance figures is likely to cause many buyout firms to review their regulatory compliance measures and force them to increase disclosures and make their numbers more intelligible to investors.There is no standard practice for calculating average net IRRs among the roughly 3,300 private equity firms headquartered in the United States. A Reuters review of regulatory filings and interviews with people familiar with different firms' practices show the calculation varies widely even among the top private equity firms. Blackstone Group LP, Carlyle Group LP and Bain Capital LLC, for example, do not include money that comes from general partners in average net IRR calculations, while Apollo Global Management LLC does, the review shows. Fund marketing documents are not public, but the sources said all these firms disclose to investors whether they include general partner capital in the calculation or not. The SEC's review comes after the agency put together a dedicated group earlier this year to examine private equity and hedge funds that had to register with it as part of the 2010 Dodd-Frank financial reform law, Reuters first reported in April. Much of the SEC's focus so far had been on fees that private equity funds charge. In a May 6 speech, Andrew J. Bowden, director of the SEC's Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations, said more than half of the private equity funds the agency examined had inappropriately allocated expenses and collected fees.   COMPLEX CALCULATION The average net IRR figure is crucial to investors' understanding of their actual profits from private equity funds. That's because not all investors in a fund pay the same amount of fees to the private equity firm for managing their money. Typically, fund managers charge a management fee of about 1.5 percent of committed capital and take 20 percent of the fund's profits assuming performance meets a returns hurdle agreed with investors. Investors, however, are usually offered fee breaks if, for example, they commit money early during the fundraising process or if they make a larger allocation to the fund. The SEC expects private equity firms to report average net IRRs alongside gross IRRs with equal prominence in marketing materials when they are seeking to raise a new fund. Industry sources said including general partner capital in the average net IRR calculation can make a material difference if that commitment is sizeable. "Over the past five years, some general partners have started to invest more of their personal capital into their vehicles on a non-fee basis and that obviously can create some IRR distortion," said David Fann, chief executive officer of TorreyCove Capital Partners LLC, a private equity advisory firm.   (Reporting by Greg Roumeliotis in New York; Editing by Paritosh Bansal and John Pickering) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe United States Federal Reserve Board building is shown in WashingtonWASHINGTON (Reuters) - The U.S. Federal Reserve on Wednesday is expected to shutter its bond-buying program, closing one controversial chapter in its crisis response even as it struggles to manage a full return to normal monetary policy. The Fed is likely to announce at the end of a two-day meeting that it will no longer add to its holdings of Treasury bonds and mortgage-backed securities, halting the final $15 billion in monthly purchases under a program that at its peak pumped $85 billion a month into the financial system. An important symbolic step, the end of the purchases still leaves the Fed far from a normal posture. Its balance sheet has swollen to more than $4 trillion, interest rates remain at zero, and, if anything, recent events have increased the risk the U.S. central bank may need to keep propping up the economy for longer than had been expected just a few weeks ago. The statement the Fed will issue at 2 p.m. (1800 GMT) will be read carefully for signs of how weak inflation, ebbing global growth and recent financial market volatility have influenced U.S. policymakers. There is no news conference scheduled after the meeting and no fresh economic forecasts from Fed officials. "They are worried about the economy, the global one," and are likely to leave much of their language intact rather than signal progress towards a rate hike, Morgan Stanley analyst Vincent Reinhart wrote in a preview of the meeting. Attention will focus on whether the Fed's statement continues to refer to "significant" slack in the U.S. labor market, and whether it retains language indicating rates will remain low for a "considerable time," as most economists expect. Paul Edelstein, director of financial economics at IHS Global Insight, said the Fed may also need to acknowledge the inflation outlook is weakening. "They have been kind of wrong about inflation lately," Edelstein said. "It would behoove them to do something - signal to markets they are not going to tolerate inflation and inflation expectations persistently below 2 percent." Fed officials have largely stuck to forecasts that the U.S. economy will grow around 3 percent this year, with inflation poised to move gradually back to their 2 percent goal. However, slower-than-expected global growth and falling oil prices have called that inflation outlook into question. Investors have recently pushed their expectations for an initial rate hike back to late next year as a result, although a number of top Fed officials recently said they think the U.S. central bank is still on track to bump up borrowing costs in mid-2015. The Fed's third round of bond buying closes to mixed reviews. Officials argue it helped hold down long-term interest rates, keeping borrowing costs cheaper for companies and households. Others maintain it did little more than prop up stock prices. The end of the program won't immediately lead to a decline in the Fed's bloated balance sheet. For now, it plans to continue reinvesting the proceeds of securities that mature, part of an effort to keep many aspects of its monetary accommodation in place. As it stands, officials do not plan to allow the Fed's balance sheet to decline until after interest rates begin to rise.   (Reporting by Howard Schneider; Editing by Tim Ahmann and Paul Simao) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersPeople shop for clothes at a store during a seasonal sale inside a shopping mall in MumbaiLONDON, (Reuters) - Consumer confidence in the United States jumped in the third quarter and improved globally, although people were more optimistic about job prospects than their personal finances, a survey showed on Wednesday. India remained the most bullish consumer market, while Italy became the most pessimistic, according to the survey by global information and insights company Nielsen. The survey showed that concerns about the economy and job prospects had eased globally from the second quarter, but in North America and Europe that had been replaced by rising worries about war and terrorism. European countries generally were the most pessimistic, reflecting the conflict in Ukraine, faltering growth and the risk of deflation in the euro zone. Britain and Germany, however, saw consumer confidence improve. The Nielsen Global Consumer Confidence Index rose 1 point in the third quarter to 98, according to the survey, conducted between Aug. 13 and Sept. 5. The index has been steadily rising since the first quarter of 2012 and the latest reading headed closer to the 100 mark that signals optimism among consumers. U.S. consumers were the seventh most upbeat globally, with their score rising 4 points to 108 as optimism about job prospects continued to surge. Americans were also slightly more upbeat about the outlook for their personal finances than they were in the second quarter, unlike Europeans, who were more pessimistic, reflecting persistently low wage growth. “U.S. consumers are now feeling far more confident than in previous years of the recovery due to consistently good job market trends, reflected in steady payroll growth and falling unemployment over the course of 2014,” said Louise Keely, a senior vice president at Nielsen. “They are also benefiting from lower gasoline prices and a gradually improving housing market. In the coming months, as we start to see more people re-entering the workforce and meaningful wage growth, this is likely to translate into broad-based gains in consumer spending." Australia saw the biggest increase in confidence from the previous quarter, by 12 points, followed by Slovenia with a 9-point increase and Thailand with 8 points. Chile posted the sharpest drop in confidence, by 7 points, followed by the Philippines with a 5-point decline and 4-point decreases for Italy and Ukraine. The Nielsen survey was conducted online and covered more than 30,000 consumers across 60 markets.  Nielsen Global Consumer Confidence Index in the third quarter, 2014 (change from Q2 survey in brackets):  Top 10 index readings Bottom 10 index readings  India 126 (-2) Finland 64 (-3) Indonesia 125 (+2) France 59 (-1) Philippines 115 (-5) Slovenia 58 (+9) Thailand 113 (+8) Ukraine 57 (-4) UAE 112 (+3) Hungary/Greece 56 (0,+1) China 111 (0) Portugal 53 (+5) United States 108 (+4) S. Korea 52 (-1) Hong Kong 107 (+4) Serbia 51 (0) Saudi Arabia 105 (+3) Croatia 49 (-1) Denmark 104 (-2) Italy 47 (-4)  --------------------------------------------------------------- Global consumer confidence average 98 (+1) Germany 97 (+1) UK 93 (+3) Japan 77 (+4) Australia 97 (+12)    Source: Nielsen    (Editing by Larry King) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jorge SilvaA pump jack is seen during sunset at Lagunillas field in the eastern coast of Lake Maracaibo, Venezuela.Despite being one of the largest oil producers in the world, Venezuela has started buying light crude oil from Algeria for the first time, Bloomberg reports. Until recently, the Venezuelan government had been buying naphtha on open markets to treat its oil. That's because the extra heavy crude produced by Venezuela needs to be diluted before it can be exported. But a combination of falling oil prices (which makes the country’s major export less profitable) and devalued currency (which makes buying things abroad increasingly expensive) has created a conundrum. Pantheon MacroeconomicsNaphtha is more expensive than buying light crude, which is mixed with the heavy crude to dilute it. Earlier in October, sources told Reuters that Venezuela was also importing light crude from Russia. While the government holds an official exchange rate of 6.2 Venezuelan bolivars to the dollar, the bolivar is worth far less on the black market and the dollar is worth far more. The chart above shows how Venezuelan inflation has exploded. The shortage of dollars in Venezuela to buy imports has also led to shortages of major goods like cooking oil and milk, leading to heavily-protested schemes like fingerprinting customers when they buy groceries to keep track of purchase. FREE AppDownload
Food52/James Ransom European equities indices are mixed this morning, after a strong night in Asia. Here's the scorecard, so far: France's CAC 40 is up 0.19% Spain's IBEX is down 0.16% Italy's FTSE MIB is down 1.43% Britain's FTSE 100 is up 0.43% Germany's DAX is up 0.65% Asian markets had a good trading day and closed way up. The Nikkei finished up 1.46%. The Hang Seng closed up 1.27%. US futures are basically flat: The S&amp;P is up 0.25 points and the Dow is down 13 points.  Mortgage lending figures from the Bank of England are out at 5:30 a.m. ET, which should give some indication of the health of the housing market in September. Analysts are expecting a slight dip. From the US later, the major scheduled news is the Federal Reserve's announcement on rates and QE at 2 p.m. ET. Most importantly, despite the volatility of recent weeks, they are expected to taper the last of the country's quantitative easing purchases and end QE3.  FREE AppDownload
Bizarrely, Viehbacher's ousting comes in part because he was insufficiently French, it seems: • He was the company's first non-French boss. • He moved to Boston to run the company (its HQ and board were based in Paris). • He made the company less French and more international in its outlook. • And in doing so, he made enemies on the French board, who have now temporarily replaced him with a Frenchman, Chairman Serge Weinberg. The firing is ironic because Viehbacher was brought in originally to de-Frenchify the company. When he was hired, the company wrote its press releases in a sort of strangled "Franglais," using English peppered with French spellings like "Septembre." Viehbacher is a German Canadian who got the Sanofi job after being head of US pharma at GlaxoSmithKline, where he had a reputation for playing hardball and telling it like it is. One of the first things he did at Sanofi was oversee a massive program of layoffs. All of the foregoing was an obvious breath of fresh air at Sanofi at the time, but it now looks as if the French board has had enough. Bernstein analyst Tim Anderson, the dean of the pharma stock investment community, summed up the "French" issue nicely in a note to investors this morning: ·    News that CEO Chris Viehbacher is being pushed aside is not very surprising.  Is it disappointing?  In a way.  While Sanofi has had its ups and downs since Viehbacher was brought in from the outside world (GSK specifically), the ups have generally exceeded the downs, and our perception is that Viehbacher has had the support of the investment community more often than not.  Of course, it depends from here on who Sanofi hires as a permanent replacement.  If the company were to bring in a well-respected outsider as his replacement - like AstraZeneca did when it picked up Pascal Soriot from Roche - this would be a positive.  By contrast, if it’s a promotion from within, it might be more difficult to view this as favorably.  Since Viehbacher took over in late 2008, he slowly recruited additional outside talent, but not in droves.    At the Board level, Sanofi has not seemed to undergo as much change.  ·    Press reports over the last few days (prior to Q3 results) indicate that the Board has not been happy with Viehbacher’s prior attempts to narrow down the organization, and to make it less “French” and more “global”.  Being more global has been a good thing in our view.  Prior to Viehbacher, it sometimes almost felt as if Sanofi were a privately-run company, and investors could either choose to come along for the ride or not. Investors now believe the company will turn inward: "Viehbacher tried hard to change the DNA of the company but the board won in the end. Sanofi will become more parochial now," said Navid Malik, head of life sciences research at Cenkos Securities in London. Reuters notes that Viehbacher was Sanofi's first non-French boss. The stock fell nearly 14% in premarket trading on NYSE, it's down on the Paris exchange too. Investors will be furious: Six years ago when he took over, SNY stock was dwelling at $25.62. Until a few days ago it peaked at $56.43. Now it's in freefall on the news. Just hours before, on Tuesday, Viehbacher had dismissed the "rumors" that he was about to be fired. It seems that the Sanofi board — which is mostly French — didn't like the fact that Viehbacher had moved to Boston, Bloomberg reports. Generally, in the pharma business, US sales make up around 50% of all global drug sales. Viehbacher also made the company more international, Reuters says: Sanofi's first non-French boss, he took his job in late 2008. He has transformed a very French drug company by making it more international, winning the praise of many analysts and investors but raising some hackles in Paris and directly butting heads with some board members over the past several months. The move appears to come after a clash of styles, the Wall Street Journal says: Sanofi Chairman Serge Weinberg said Mr. Viehbacher was ousted because of his management style and relationship with the company’s board. Mr. Weinberg added that he would temporarily take over Mr. Viehbacher’s responsibilities and that the company had no plans to change its strategy. The Financial Times has more on the story: Sanofi’s directors have ousted chief executive Chris Viehbacher in a dramatic denouement to simmering tensions on the board of the Paris-based pharmaceuticals group. The company, one of France’s biggest by market capitalization, confirmed the decision on Wednesday following a dawn board meeting. “The board of directors held a meeting Wednesday October 29 at 8am and decided unanimously to remove Christopher A. Viehbacher,” it said. The board thanked Mr Viehbacher, the first non-French chief executive in Sanofi’s history, for “all the hard work” during his six years at the head of the company. The move comes after Viehbachher wrote the board a letter telling them why changing CEOs would be a bad idea, according to the Wall Street Journal: In the letter, Viehbacher wrote that “it has come to my attention, first through rumor, that the chairman of the board is actively seeking a successor to me as chief executive officer …I, of course, respect the board’s right to change the CEO. I would also like to draw to the board’s attention my personal views about why changing the ceo now would be detrimental to the interests of shareholders and other stakeholders…” Viehbacher cited the price of Sanofi stock, which was at an “historic high” at the time, recent results of clinical trial data for various medicines and the “value” of the product pipeline. And he argued that removing him would destabilize senior management; disrupt alliances with other companies, such as with Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, and alter relationships with regulators and industry trade groups. “I have worked hard and traveled long distances over the past five years to rebuild a Sanofi that is financially successful, provided new hope to patients through innovative new medicines and built a strong leadership team,” the 54-year-0ld Viehbacher wrote. “I ask you not to put this development at risk and that we have a dialogue about what the board would like to see going forward.” FREE AppDownload
Media tycoon Rupert Murdoch has a drone. The 83-year-old took to Twitter to tell the world about his maiden flight of the quadcopter, a drone with four rotors. "Trying out my new drone," he tweeted. Here's the tweet. Trying out my new drone with Paul #WSJDLive pic.twitter.com/o36DF1YVGC The photo of Murdoch's first flight was taken while he was attending the Wall Street Journal's tech conference, held in California's Laguna Beach. This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTo match Special Report SEC/INVESTIGATIONS(Reuters) - The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is investigating whether employees at the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) leaked information to traders, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing people familiar with the investigation. Authorities have interviewed nearly a dozen CMS officials and subpoenaed policy research firms, Wall Street traders and government officials as part of the probe, the newspaper reported, citing sources. The SEC is pursuing three overlapping insider-trading investigations involving CMS, the report said, adding that one of the cases involves the Federal Bureau of Investigation. In one probe, the SEC is examining whether any agency officials tipped off policy research firm Marwood Group LLC about CMS's review of Dendreon Corp's prostate cancer treatment called Provenge. The second is focused on a former CMS employee, David Blaszczak, who has made many accurate predictions about Medicare payments for medical products, the paper reported. The SEC is also examining whether material non-public information concerning an April 1, 2013 announcement by CMS of 2014 reimbursement rates for a Medicare program was leaked improperly, and whether anyone traded on that information. Earlier this month, the SEC obtained evidence against research firm Height Securities and several New York-based hedge funds. CMS, SEC and Blaszczak could not be immediately reached for comments outside regular business hours.   (Reporting by Rishika Sadam in Bangalore; Editing by Gopakumar Warrier) FREE AppDownload
Alex Wong/Getty ImagesMary Jo White, chairwoman of the SEC.(Reuters) - Hedge funds and other rapid-fire investors get access to market-moving documents before other users of the Securities and Exchange Commission's system for distributing company filings, giving them a possible edge on the rest of the market, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing two independent studies. The two sets of researchers have been examining when paying subscribers receive SEC filings compared with when they become available on the agency's website, the newspaper reported. They found a wide variation in the lag time, from no delay to one lasting more than a minute. The ability to get the information before it is on the SEC website can give traders extra seconds to act on the news, WSJ said. The studies focus on the SEC's Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval system, or Edgar, which is used to disseminate earnings reports and other documents filed to the regulator. Representatives for the SEC were not immediately available to comment on the report outside regular U.S. business hours. However, an SEC spokeswoman told the Journal that the agency has reviewed the working paper and was conducting a thorough assessment of the dissemination process to make necessary systems modifications. A book by best-selling author Michael Lewis that asserted equities markets are rigged by high-frequency traders - who can dip in and out of markets in fractions of a second - triggered renewed regulatory scrutiny earlier this year. The SEC for the past few years has been investigating high-speed traders and others for potential concerns about manipulation or other practices that may give some market players an unfair advantage. (Reporting by Supriya Kurane in Bangalore; Editing by Gopakumar Warrier) FREE AppDownload
Thomas Lohnes/Getty ImagesStefan Krause, chief financial officer of Deutsche Bank.Deutsche Bank reported a quarterly net loss of 92 million euros on Wednesday as heavy legal costs outweighed a rise in investment banking earnings. Germany’s top lender reported quarterly pretax income of 266 million euros, lifted by a 4% pretax profit rise from investment banking. Deutsche's CFO Stefan Krause is also being shuffled into a strategy role as of May 2015. He is being replaced by Marcus Schenck of Goldman Sachs, who will start as Deputy CFO and then take over from Krause fully in 2015. The bank spent 894 million euros on litigation costs in the quarter, bringing to about 7 billion euros the amount the bank has spent on fines and settlements since 2012. (Reporting by Thomas Atkins; Editing by Arno Schuetze) FREE AppDownload
The New York WheelLONDON (Reuters) - Anyone betting on another "Great Rotation" of investment flows out of bonds and into stocks is in for disappointment: it's not happening, and isn't going to. In a world where deflation, never the most fertile ground for equities, is a bigger concern for policymakers than inflation, that seems a pretty safe call - but the surprise is that this time around both asset classes may be on to a winner. Bonds tend to do better than stocks when inflation is weak because the value of the fixed income payments investors receive is protected. In periods of deflation the real rate of return is actually enhanced. But many of the world's leading investment banks argue that the broader market backdrop - also characterized by low interest rates, low returns and high cash balances - leaves stocks just as well-positioned to benefit as bonds. Even as the U.S. Federal Reserve withdraws its stimulus, there is a surplus of savings and central bank liquidity in the global financial system that needs to find an investment home. "The equity cult and the bond cult can live side by side," according to Citi. As a group, U.S. financial institutions are among the biggest investors on the planet, with more than $60 trillion of assets under management, according to UBS. And they are loading up on stocks. U.S. mutual funds' net investment flows in stocks over a five-year rolling period troughed at round $550 billion net outflow in late 2012 compared with a peak net inflow of over $1 trillion at the end of the millennium, Citi analysis shows. But that flow is now approaching neutral territory and is on track to turn positive next year. To be sure, equities aren't cheap right now, particularly U.S. stocks. The S&amp;P 500 has risen 170 percent from its post-crisis low in early 2009, and other developed markets have performed similarly well. By some measures, valuations are getting stretched, especially with sluggish growth unable to prop them up. The third quarter earnings season now under way has shown many large firms on both sides of the Atlantic missing revenue and profit forecasts. But many investors still consider them more attractive than bonds which currently offer the lowest yields in years, or in some cases ever. The "equity risk" premium - how much more stocks are expected to return than bonds - is more than 7 percent in the euro zone and UK, and 10 percent in Japan. Even the lower U.S. premium of 6 percent, which suggests Wall Street is starting to look a little expensive, still offers a decent return. Even those who think these risk premia are too low say there are reasons why it may be different this time, the main one being that the returns offered by bonds and cash are simply too low. "Investors have no option but to accept higher risk if they wish to meet their future income requirements," said Keith Wade, strategist at fund management giant Schroders in London. Wade also reckons that equity markets, much like bonds post-crisis, essentially now have the back of global policymakers, who will do all they can to support the economic recovery and prevent renewed financial market distress and volatility. This was brought into focus two weeks ago when an explosion of volatility ripped through markets, sending bond yields tumbling and prompting the biggest fall in stock markets for years. Officials from the Federal Reserve and Bank of England were quick to allay market fears with soothing messages of interest rates possibly staying lower for longer than previously anticipated. Wall Street and European stocks have rebounded between 5 and 7 percent from these panic-driven lows. Citi predicts global stocks will rise a further 21 percent by the end of next year, while Barclays says European stocks are cheaper than at any point in the last 10 years because investors are pricing in a growth and deflation scenario that is "more pessimistic than warranted". The 'shock absorber' for the deflationary forces currently being fought to varying degrees around the world will be a stronger dollar, argue Morgan Stanley and HSBC. They say the U.S. economy is the only one of sufficient size and strength to withstand a rising exchange rate, the negative effects of which will be cushioned by lower energy prices. Morgan Stanley, HSBC and almost every other major U.S. and European investment bank expect the dollar to strengthen next year. Many of them say the greenback is in the early stages of what is a multi-year rally. If they are right the euro, sterling and Japanese yen all weaken, making their economies more competitive on the global stage and fuelling a recovery in growth and inflation, albeit from extremely subdued levels. According to Goldman Sachs: "The backdrop remains one of sub-par growth, low inflation and low interest rates," an environment that's "unlikely to be very negative" for bonds and at the same time "positive" for stocks.   (Reporting by Jamie McGeever and Francesco Canepa; editing by John Stonestreet) FREE AppDownload
