    Think you're an expert at Googling? There's actually a lot more buried in Google's search engine than you think. Here's some tips to help you take advantage of them. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/NASAFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Why Investors Saying Diversification Failed During The Financial Crisis Have It All Wrong (Morningstar) You often hear the complaint that diversification didn't work during the financial crisis. But Samuel Lee, strategist at Morningstar, writes that this argument has no leg to stand on. "The problem was that while investors felt diversified by investing in many different types of bonds and equities, their portfolios were heavily reliant on economic growth and ample liquidity (that is, they were heavily loaded on the growth and liquidity risk)," he writes.  "When the economy fell into a recession and the parlous state of the financial system spurred a flight to liquidity, conventional portfolios suffered. Most investors weren't diversified by the true drivers of returns: risk factors." Bottomline — investors looking for real diversification need to do so at the "risk factor level" not by just diversifying into different asset classes. Three Advantages To Being A Small Advisory Firms (The Wall Street Journal) While we're seeing a lot of consolidation in the financial advisory industry, there are still benefits to a small boutique firm, writes Lee Baker, president of Georgia-based Apex Financial Services in a new Wall Street Journal column.  1. "Smaller firms are more nimble and able to adapt to change more quickly than big firms." 2. "Large firms are also constrained by compliance concerns in other ways. Compliance fears can also keep advisers at large firms from speaking with reporters, even about something vanilla." 3. "You get exposed to different ways of thinking about things. A firm can get so big that it becomes insular and begins to suffer from "group think." Morgan Stanley Wealth Management Announces Management Shake-Up (Reuters)  Morgan Stanley just announced a shake-up of its wealth management unit. It "named three executives to new roles as part of its strategy to sell more products to clients and increase its loan book," reports Lauren Tara LaCapra at Reuters. Doug Ketter will now be head of strategy and client management. Shelly O'Connor will now take over Ketter's former position, overseeing 16,456 financial advisors. Eric Heaton will be in charge of the private banking group. Every Intra-Year Move In The 10-Year Treasury Yield Since 1962 (Deutsche Bank) Deutsche Bank's Brett Ryan points out that since July 2013 the yields on the U.S. 10-year Treasury note have been in a 50 basis point range. "History suggests that such periods of low volatility are the exception rather than the norm." "Over the last 52 years, there have been only 10 occasions where the intra-year move was less than 100 basis points. Moreover, there have been only six periods when the intra-year move was less than 90 basis points. Thus, if the 2014 growth outlook remains largely intact, 10-year rates have significant scope to move higher." Deutsche Bank has a 4% year-end target on the 10-year. Bloomberg, Deutsche Bank Investors Are Loving Stock ETFs Again (Bloomberg) In the past two weeks investors put $21 billion into ETFs that buy and sell American shares, report Lu Wang and Nick Taborek at Bloomberg. This compares with January, when investors yanked $14 billion from stocks. "Equities still remain the more attractive assets class and headwinds for bonds will continue," Ernie Cecilia, CIO at Bryn Mawr Trust Co. in Bryn Mawr, told Bloomberg. "Consumer confidence is hanging in there pretty well. We see signs of broadening economic growth." FREE AppDownload
Elon Musk just announced details of Tesla's plan to start pumping out lithium ion batteries like M&amp;Ms at its planned "Gigafactory."  Obviously, it's big news for electric vehicles as this should bring down the cost of a very expensive component. But it has equal and possibly greater significance for renewable energy. We've explained that power storage is the key to unlocking widespread renewable energy. For renewables to be truly cost competitive with existing power sources, they need to be able to provide a continuous current flow, something difficult to achieve when the wind isn't blowing or sun isn't shining.  But the price to do so is currently exorbitant. Tom Leyden, the head of Solar Grid Storage, whose revolutionary container storage system on the side of a Maryland freeway we profiled a few months ago, says batteries currently represent 50% of the cost of one of his systems. Which is why he's hailing Tesla's decision. "If those prices comes down, our market expands, we can offer a lower priced product and put more storage in our system," he told us. "So this is very important." Solar execs are comparing the current environment to where photovoltaic costs were in the last decade, just before their prices plummeted. "At that point in time solar modules were very expensive, and the industry was pushing a couple of different alternatives: thin films were going to be photovoltaic of the future," said Tony Clifford, CEO of Standard Solar. His company also worked on the Maryland project. But thanks to worldwide government incentives, he said, the price of traditional silicon ended up falling through the floor, paving the way  for the current renewables boom. In this case, of course, the marketplace is creating the demand for lithium ion batteries. But renewables will again be the beneficiaries.  "You're going to be able to drive costs out right across supply chain and see some significant cost reductions in storage technology." A report from the Rocky Mountain Institute released prior to Tesla's announcement (spotted by GTM) was even more extreme about the possibilities for cheaper storage.  "Whereas other technologies, including solar PV and other distributed resources without storage, net metering, and energy efficiency still require some degree of grid dependence, solar-plus-batteries enable customers to cut the cord to their utility entirely," they write.  "The coming grid parity of solar-plus-battery systems in the foreseeable future, among other factors, signals the eventual demise of traditional utility business models," the authors wrote. Tesla's announcement represents a major step towards a larger, cheaper energy storage market that could have huge implications for making renewables more widespread.   FREE AppDownload
One of the major advantages of living in a city rather than in the suburbs is walkability. In a dense urban neighborhood, many services and amenities are within a short walking distance. In a less dense, suburban neighborhood, parks, stores, and neighbors might only be accessible by driving. These two maps made by the sustainability research center Sightline Institute, which popped up on Reddit, and were originally posted on the website of walkability analysis company Walk Score, dramatically illustrate the differences. The maps show, in blue, the range of places within a mile's walk from the central star location. There is a much wider range of places to go and things to do within a walking mile in the city than in the suburban neighborhood. The pink lots on the map are commercial and retail spots, and there are clearly far more options available to the urban pedestrian.  On the left is a suburban neighborhood in Bellevue, WA, and on the right is a neighborhood in Seattle.  Sightline Institute Thanks to Sightline Institute for giving us permission to feature these maps.  
REUTERS/David GrayA Qantas Airlines Boeing 737 plane sits next to a Virgin Australia Boeing 737 plane at the Port Hedland airport in the Pilbara region of western Australia December 3, 2013. Qantas just posted as $252 million half-year before-tax loss, and confirmed it will cut 5000 jobs. CEO Alan Joyce said the result was unacceptable, according to a statement, and action would be taken as a response. The result is at the upper end of previous guidance. “We are facing some of the toughest conditions Qantas has ever seen,” Joyce said. “The Australian domestic aviation market has been distorted by current Australian aviation policy, which allows Virgin Australia to be majority-owned by three foreign government-backed airlines and yet retain access to Australian bilateral flying rights.” As part of a now-accelerated plan to produce $2 billion in savings, the airline confirmed earlier speculation it would cut 5000 full-time positions over the next three years. There will also be a wage freeze across the entire Qantas group. “Qantas has been undertaking its biggest ever transformation over the past four years, cutting comparable unit costs by 19 per cent over four years, but this is not enough for the circumstances we face now,” said Joyce. Here are the key figure: FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Lisa BrewsterA little-known New York State law that prohibits unlimited drinks made waves this week when outlets began reporting that bottomless brunches are illegal. Understandably, people were upset. How can New York's favorite weekend pastime be against the law? Thankfully, it's not. The story was in reference to N.Y. 117-A Unlimited drink offerings prohibited law, which was created at least five years ago in response to complaints of over-serving and intoxication at bars, NYC Hospitality Alliance counsel Robert Bookman told us. That law prohibits "selling, serving, delivering or offering to patrons an unlimited number of drinks during any set period of time for a fixed price." It recently resurfaced after the New York City Hospitality Alliance posted a reminder on its site stating, "NYC restaurant and nightlife operators should familiarize themselves with the law." This was after receiving calls from restaurants and clients who were confused over whether or not bottomless brunches were considered illegal. However, when we reached out to the New York State Liquor Association (SLA), we were told in an email that the law does not apply to bottomless brunches, which are instead considered "events." According to the SLA: Serving unlimited drinks to a patron is prohibited under the Alcoholic Beverage Control law, and instances of over serving by our licensees will be investigated and prosecuted. However, there is a limited exception in the statute when the service of alcohol is incidental to the event, such as in the case of certain brunch specials.  Even under these limited exceptions, licensees still have a legal obligation not to over serve patrons.  The SLA will continue to take a balanced regulatory approach by allowing licensees to conduct specials where alcohol is an accompaniment, while simultaneously cracking down on specials that promote excessive drinking. Basically, bottomless brunches are considered legal but restaurants still have an obligation not to over-serve patrons and are not immune from investigation by the SLA. Take for instance The Sunburnt Cow, a popular Australian burger hot spot in the East Village, which once offered patrons as many mimosas and Fosters beer they could drink within 90 minutes. After an SLA investigation, owner Heath St. Clair told the New York Post, “We are very responsible with our customers. We do not offer an unlimited brunch [anymore]." For those curious, the punishment for promoting excessive drinking is up to $10,000 per violation. In short, restaurants should be careful and New Yorkers should feel free to drink (responsibly) this weekend.   FREE AppDownload
The Real DealJPMorgan's Brooklyn MetroTech office.JPMorgan Chase is rumored to be planning the relocation of 2,000 employees to its Brooklyn MetroTech office by the end of 2014. The majority of the moved workers will come from the bank’s 1 Chase Manhattan Plaza office, a 60-story building that sold to Shanghai-based Fosun International last year. The move comes as JPMorgan makes a larger effort to downsize and consolidate its real estate. “Were they to come, it would be a validation of our office market here,” Tucker Reed, president of the Downtown Brooklyn Partnership, told Bloomberg of the rumored move. “The only drawback, if you can call it that, would be the challenge it creates. It makes our space dilemma a little more acute, but that’s a good problem to have.” JPMorgan owns two buildings at the 3.7 million-square-foot campus — 4 MetroTech Center and 3 MetroTech Center — and in 2012 began listing around 70,000 square feet of its space there for rent, an unnamed source told Bloomberg. JPMorgan owns two buildings at the 3.7 million-square-foot campus — 4 MetroTech Center and 3 MetroTech Center — and in 2012 began listing around 70,000 square feet of its space there for rent, an unnamed source told Bloomberg. The complex has drawn technology and media companies recently, including 3D printing firm MakerBot and ImpreMedia, which publishes New York’s El Diario La Prensa. [Crain's] FREE AppDownload
If you have been unemployed for some time, you may begin to wonder what is holding you back from finally getting work. Did you know that your credit history could be a reason why you haven’t been able to land a job? In today’s world employers go so far as to check your credit history to determine if you are a good fit for the job. While for the most part, potential employers won’t check your credit history, this still happens to some prospective employees. The reason for this inquiry is because employers use your credit history as another point of reference when determining your reliability, as well as your ability to follow through with promises. This may seem unfair, especially since there are a lot of honest and hard-working people with every intention of paying their bills on time, but it happens. What you need to be concerned about is what kind of jobs require good credit scores, and what you can do to prevent poor credit from hurting your chances of getting a job. Jobs in the financial world are primarily the ones that require good credit. If you’re going to help manage finances for an employer then you need to set a good example with yourself first. A company does not want someone who cannot manage his or her own finances to manage their assets, or assets of their clients. You want your credit to be in good standing before you apply to a position in this field. If you do happen to have bad credit then all hope is not lost to land a job in the financial world. An employer may like your resume, and still call you in for an interview. On some occasions employers in finance will bring up the subject of your bad credit; this is your chance to explain yourself. Give a brief explanation of the reason why your credit history is not the most promising, and the efforts you’re making to change that. No matter how the discussion develops, make sure you end it on a positive note to show you are trying to move in the right direction. While for the most part the only type of job where an employer will deny you a position based on your credit history is in finance, this possibility can occur with essentially any job. This commonly happens when an employer likes two candidates equally, and wants another source of information to make the final decision. If one potential employee has a bad credit history, and the other candidate is in good standing, then the employer is likely to opt for the person with better credit. Having bad credit does not have to prevent you from landing a job. If you have a bad credit history then try your best to have the latest six months of your credit history in good standing. You want to show employers that you have recently made efforts to improve yourself. Paying your bills on time may be hard for you to do if you have no source of income. You may have to settle for a part-time position to help pay the bills so that you do not miss any payments. There are some sacrifices that may be necessary to make, but in the long-run it will be well worth it. Find a way to improve your credit, and it won’t hold you back from getting a job you actually want. This article originally appeared at MyBankTracker.  Copyright 2014. Follow MyBankTracker on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Morris MacMatzenBrain-computer interfaces will soon be a thing.The World Economic Forum, famous for its annual Davos convention in Switzerland, has put out a new report identifying the top technological trends for the coming year. "Technology has become perhaps the greatest agent of change in the modern world," writes WEF's Noubar Afeyan. "While never without risk, positive technological breakthroughs promise innovative solutions to the most pressing global challenges of our time, from resource scarcity to global environmental change." "By highlighting the most important technological breakthroughs, the Council aims to raise awareness of their potential and contribute to closing gaps in investment, regulation and public understanding," he writes. From wearable electronics to brain-computer interfaces, here are the big technologies to look out for this year. FREE AppDownload
Tesla just unveiled its plans for its Gigafactory — a huge factory that by 2020, would exceed 2013 global production of battery packs. Here's how the Gigafactory would work: Tesla
Perhaps the biggest hurdle Tesla faces in its goal to build an affordable electric car is the cost of batteries that eliminate the need for gasoline. To deal with the problem, Elon Musk's upstart automaker is planning to build a "Gigafactory" — a huge factory that by 2020 would exceed 2013 global production of battery packs. In a release today, Tesla explained the goal of the new factory: The Gigafactory is designed to reduce cell costs much faster than the status quo and, by 2020, produce more lithium ion batteries annually than were produced worldwide in 2013. By the end of the first year of volume production of our mass market vehicle, we expect the Gigafactory will have driven down the per kWh cost of our battery pack by more than 30 percent. In 2013, the first full year of Model S production, Tesla accounted for more than a third of the industry's battery usage. The company now works with Panasonic to produce the batteries that power the Model S, but Musk said in an earnings call earlier this month that he expects to have more than one partner on the Gigafactory. The automaker will directly invest $2 billion into the project, and partners will provide another $2-3 billion. Earlier today, Tesla announced it is offering $1.6 billion in convertible notes in an underwritten registered public offering, and that it will put some of the proceeds toward building the Gigafactory. The factory would open in 2017 and cover as much as 10 million square feet, with one or two levels, with about 6,500 employees. Here's what it would look like, with projected production figures: Tesla Motors And where it might be built: Tesla Motors Along with the timeline for completion: Tesla Motors Tesla has had a great week. The stock surged to an all-time high after Morgan Stanley analyst Adam Jonas raised his price target from $153 to $320, saying: "Tesla’s quest to disrupt a trillion $ car industry offers an adjacent opportunity to disrupt a trillion $ electric utility industry ... If it can be a leader in commercializing battery packs, investors may never look at Tesla the same way again." Then Consumer Reports named the Model S the best overall car of 2014, calling it a "technological tour de force" that's also "the easiest, most practical, albeit pricey, electric car to live with." FREE AppDownload
Nuclear power is a contested topic. Nuclear plants are expensive, and while there are clear risks to the technology, they may help alleviate carbon emissions, at least until renewables are more cost-effective. Countries rely on nuclear power for their electricity needs to different degrees. The International Atomic Energy Agency monitors the share of total electricity generated in a country coming from nuclear power. France is at the very top of the list, generating 74.8% of their electricity from nuclear. The U.S. is by far the top producer of nuclear power with 770,718 GW.h of electricity supplied this way. However, that accounts for just 19.0% of the electricity generated. Here is a map showing the nuclear power share for those countries that use nuclear power, from 2012 IAEA data: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from IAEA Most of the nuclear power action is happening in Europe, so here is a closer look of that continent: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from IAEA Here is a summary of the IAEA data: IAEA
REUTERS/Yuri GripasJamie Dimon JPMorgan Chase, which is one of the largest employers in Arizona, wants Governor Jan Brewer to veto a bill that critics argue would allow businesses to discriminate against lesbian and gay customers. JPMorgan Chase spokeswoman Darcy Donahoe-Wilmot provided Business Insider a statement Wednesday saying the company wants the bill, SB 1062, to be vetoed.  "JPMorgan Chase opposes all forms of discrimination in law and in fact. The bill passed by the Arizona legislature does not reflect the values of our country or the State of Arizona and should be vetoed. JPMorgan Chase is one of the largest private employers in the State of Arizona with over 11,000 employees here," the statement said. Supporters of SB 1062 argue it preserves religious freedom. If Brewer does not veto the bill, it will become law. Brewer has said she will make a decision by Friday.  According to the Arizona Republic, JPMorgan Chase ranked as the state's eighth largest employer in 2013.  Update (4:47 PM): American Express spokeswoman told Business Insider, "I can confirm for you that we have asked the governor to veto the bill." According to the Republic, American Express was Arizona's 18th largest employer last year.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jonathan Ernst  Larry Summers gave a speech today at the National Association For Business Economics (NABE) conference in Arlington Virginia. In his speech he said some really sharp stuff about the significance of WhatsApp — the messaging company being purchased by Facebook for $19 billion. Here's the exact language, via Bloomberg: Ponder for example that the leading technological companies of this age, I think for example of Apple and Google, find themselves swimming in cash and facing the challenge of what to do with a very large cash hoard. Ponder the fact that WhatsApp has a greater market value than Sony with next to no capital investment required to achieve it. Ponder the fact that it used to require tens of millions of dollars to start a significant new venture. Significance new ventures today are seeded with hundreds of thousands of dollars in the information technology era. All of this means reduced demand for investment with consequences for the flow of - with consequences for equilibrium levels of interest rates. In other words, if you hardly need any cash to start huge companies, then cash just piles up in investor bank accounts with nowhere to go. And if cash isn't moving, because there's no demand or use for that money, then interest rates will fall. Summers notes that there are other factors putting downward pressure on real interest rates, including the aftermath of the deleveraging, the declining rate of US population growth, the unequal distribution of income, resulting in a lot of wealthy people who have a high propensity to save, and a global trend towards putting money into safe assets, especially dollar denominated ones. Big picture, the trends we're seeing in tech, with these companies becoming massive with relatively little need to burn cash is a major force towards ongoing low interest rates, as investors find fewer and fewer opportunities to deploy cash.   FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Business InsiderJC Penney reported Q4 adjusted loss of $0.68 per share, on revenue of $3.78 billion. This is probably not comparable to the analyst estimates. Revenue also missed expectations for $3.86 billion. The retailer reported net income of $35 million or $0.11 per share. This was the first net profit since July 2011, reports Bloomberg. Q4 comp sales were up 2%, modestly below expectations for a 2.1% rise. Selling, general and administrative expenses (SGA) totaled $1 billion and the company took $50 million in " restructuring and management transition charges." "With the most challenging and expensive parts of the turnaround behind us, we will focus on improving gross margin, managing expense and steadily growing our sales in 2014," CEO Myron Ullman III said in a press release.  "Our strategic plan seeks to enhance performance across all of the key drivers of our business: merchandising, marketing, store experience, jcp.com, our teams, and our operations. The goal is to deliver consistently improving financial results, and to restore JCPenney as a leader in American retail." The company also expects Q1 comp store sales to rise 3-5% and expect full-year 2014 guidance to be in the mid-single digits. The stock is up 13.6% after hours to $6.78. Note: We updated the post to reflect the stock move. We also removed the analyst estimate and corrected to reflect it was the first net profit. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Navesh ChitrakarA Hindu holy man, or sadhu, sits beside a fire after smearing his body with ashes at his ashram on the premises of Pashupatinath Temple in Kathmandu February 26, 2014.A surprisingly strong housing market report wasn't the catalyst that would get stocks to hit new record highs. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Miraflores Palace/HandoutVenezuela's acting President Nicolas Maduro greets oil workers during a visit to a facility at the oil rich Orinoco belt at the state of Monagas.Protests are raging in Caracas, shoppers are fighting over chickens, and Venezuelan President Nicolás Maduro has amped up the anti-American rhetoric, blaming unrest on the American government and kicking diplomats out of the country. While in the past, strained diplomatic relations between the the world's most oil-rich country and the United States might have caused panic, America doesn't need Venezuela's oil nearly as much as it used to. Former US ambassador to Venezuela and current Duke professor Patrick Duddy explains why:  The U.S. is still Venezuela's largest market, but we do not buy nearly as much oil from Venezuela as we once did. The US has reduced its aggregate consumption by about 1 million barrels in recent years and we've also increased production, thanks largely to shale exploitation and horizontal drilling.  The US used to import more than 50% of the oil it consumed. Now, it imports substantially less than 50% of its consumption. We're using less, producing more.  Production is also expanding in Canada.  Mexico has recently changed its constitution to permit foreign participation in its energy sector and it is widely understood that they have very substantial shale reserves. Brazil has substantial off-shore reserves, known as the pre-salt deposits; Argentina has lots of shale as well.   Imports from Venezuela to the U.S. are down to, on average, 900k barrels a day or less, and sometimes it drop substantially below that. So, the relative importance of Venezuela to the U.S. has changed.   Duddy went on to explain why Venezuela probably needs the US more now than the US needs Venezuela.  “Oil represents over 95% of Venezuela’s export earnings. From those earnings, they finance 45-50% of government activities," said Duddy. "If oil revenues slips, the situation there could become more urgent.” Things were pretty different back in 2002, when a strike in Venezuela caused the country’s oil output to collapse from 3.1 million barrels a day to arround 200,000, causing oil prices to rise sharply to the highest prices since the Gulf crisis in 1990, according to Daniel Yergin’s "The Quest." Crises like that led President George W. Bush to push for increased fuel efficiency aimed at getting Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and Venezuelan President Hugo Chávez “out of the Oval Office." Even if America is less vulnerable than it used to be, however, Venezuela is still important to the global oil market. As predicted in a research note from UBS strategist Julius Walker: Any production outage would cause a significant price spike. Any production shut-ins as a result of political unrest would almost certainly result in sharp price spikes, and a total production shortfall would severely strain global oil markets. FREE AppDownload
When we last checked in on the price of Bitcoin measured in milligrams of gold, in December, Bitcoin prices were in freefall after the People's Bank of China banned the country's financial firms from processing the currency. At the time, the price of gold was also bottoming out and about to embark on a big comeback. Today, we find ourselves in a similar bearish price environment for the digital currency, as one-time Bitcoin megaexchange Mt.Gox has apparently collapsed and is reportedly the subject of a federal probe.  Meanwhile, gold has rallied. It's one of the best performing assets of 2014. So it's not surprising to see that Bitcoin, priced at $571 as of Wednesday afternoon is now worth even less in gold than it was a few months ago. Many invest in gold because they fear the downfall of the dollar. Some buy Bitcoin for the same reason. For what it's worth, gold has recently acted as a safer alternative than Bitcoin. Currently, 1 Bitcoin buys you just over 11 grams of gold. Here's the chart, from Charles Vollum and PricedInGold.com:   Charles Vollum/PricedInGold.com FREE AppDownload
Carrington Real Estate ServicesAlberto Franco, emerging market expert and former hedge fund manager at Quantek Frontier, is selling his modern South Florida beach front home, the Wall Street Journal reports. According to the listing, the 8,960 square foot residence offers an oversized dock with private boat slip — all for just a hair under a cool $13 million.  The house is listed with Franco's real estate agent wife, Rossana Franco of Carrington Real Estate Services. FREE AppDownload
Over 1,000 people from around Wall Street sent their top reads to Stifel Nicolaus's Dave Lutz for his annual Spring Break reading list. Here are the 13 books most frequently mentioned by those around the Street, from finance to fiction. The synopses are from Lutz's list. Amazon1. The Boys in the Boat by Daniel James Brown Nine Americans and Their Epic Quest for Gold at the 1936 Olympics 2. Unbroken: A World War II Story of Survival, Resilience, and Redemption by Laura Hillenbrand As a teenager, he had channeled his defiance into running, discovering a prodigious talent that had carried him to the Berlin Olympics and within sight of the four-minute mile.  But when war had come, the athlete had become an airman, embarking on a journey that led to his doomed flight, a tiny raft, and a drift into the unknown. 3. David and Goliath by Malcolm Gladwell In David and Goliath, Malcolm Gladwell challenges how we think about obstacles and disadvantages, offering a new interpretation of what it means to be discriminated against, or cope with a disability, or lose a parent, or attend a mediocre school, or suffer from any number of other apparent setbacks 4. The Frackers by Gregory Zuckerman The Outrageous Inside Story of the New Billionaire Wildcatters - Everyone knew it was crazy to try to extract oil and natural gas buried in shale rock deep below the ground. Everyone, that is, except a few reckless wildcatters - who risked their careers to prove the world wrong Amazon 5. Lone Survivor: The Eyewitness Account of Operation Redwing and the Lost Heroes of SEAL Team 10 by Marcus Luttrell Four US Navy SEALS departed one clear night in early July 2005 for the mountainous Afghanistan-Pakistan border for a reconnaissance mission. Their task was to document the activity of an al Qaeda leader rumored to be very close to Bin Laden with a small army in a Taliban stronghold. Five days later, only one of those Navy SEALS made it out alive 6. The Son by Philipp Meyer An epic of the American West and a multigenerational saga of power, blood, land, and oil that follows the rise of one unforgettable Texas family, from the Comanche raids of the 1800s to the to the oil booms of the 20th century. 7. Bad Monkey by Carl Hiaasen Here is Hiaasen doing what he does better than anyone else: spinning a tale at once fiercely pointed and wickedly funny in which the greedy, the corrupt, and the degraders of what’s left of pristine Florida—now, of the Bahamas as well—get their comeuppance in mordantly ingenious, diabolically entertaining fashion. 8. Reminiscences of a Stock Operator by Edwin Lefevre First published in 1923, Reminiscences of a Stock Operator is the most widely read, highly recommended investment book ever. Generations of readers have found that it has more to teach them about markets and people than years of experience. This is a timeless tale that will enrich your life—and your portfolio. Amazon9. Team of Rivals by Doris Kearns Goodwin This brilliant multiple biography is centered on Lincoln's mastery of men and how it shaped the most significant presidency in the nation's history. 10. Thinking, Fast and Slow by Daniel Kahneman Kahneman takes us on a groundbreaking tour of the mind and explains the two systems that drive the way we think. System 1 is fast, intuitive, and emotional; System 2 is slower, more deliberative, and more logical. Kahneman exposes the extraordinary capabilities—and also the faults and biases—of fast thinking, and reveals the pervasive influence of intuitive impressions on our thoughts and behavior. 11. The Buy Side: A Wall Street Trader's Tale of Spectacular Excess by Turney Duff Portrays an after-hours Wall Street culture where drugs and sex are rampant and billions in trading commissions flow to those who dangle the most enticements 12. The Second Machine Age: Work, Progress, and Prosperity in a Time of Brilliant Technologies by Erik Brynjolfsson and Andrew McAfee The best strategies for survival and offer a new path to prosperity. These include revamping education so that it prepares people for the next economy instead of the last one, designing new collaborations that pair brute processing power with human ingenuity, and embracing policies that make sense in a radically transformed landscape. Amazon13. The Circle by Dave Eggers When Mae Holland is hired to work for the Circle, the world’s most powerful internet company, she feels she’s been given the opportunity of a lifetime. The captivating story of one woman’s ambition and idealism soon becomes a heart-racing novel of suspense, raising questions about memory, history, privacy, democracy, and the limits of human knowledge. FREE AppDownload
eBay has responded to investor Carl Icahn's second letter shredding the company's board of directors, saying that Icahn's claims against Marc Andreessen and others are "dead wrong." For context, Icahn has been waging a written war against eBay's board of directors this week, especially slamming Andreessen (a board member and co-founder of the huge VC firm Andreessen Horowitz). Icahn is accusing Andreessen of failing to have the company's best interests in mind in two past deals involving Skype and Keynetic. He claims that Andreessen essentially cost eBay shareholders $4 billion for his own personal profit through the Skype deal, because his firm bought a portion of the company, instead of letting it IPO, which would have brought more money for eBay.    Icahn is also demanding that PayPal be spun-off from eBay.  eBay is calling his accusations against Andreessen and others "blatantly false." Here's the full letter: Carl Icahn doesn’t let the truth get in the way of a good story. And while his letters and media interviews may be entertaining, they are not factually accurate. In fact, Mr. Icahn seems to be deliberately disseminating claims that are dead wrong. The claims against Mr. Cook and Mr. Andreessen, in particular, are blatantly false. We challenge Mr. Icahn to end his own charade with our shareholders. Let’s focus on honest, accurate debate. Here are the facts: FREE AppDownload
U.S. stocks are in the red this afternoon, two sessions after the S&amp;P 500 index registered a new all-time high. They rallied following the release of better-than-expected new home sales data this morning, but failed to break above yesterday's high, and have tumbled into negative territory over the past hour. Treasuries are getting a boost following a solid auction of 5-year notes this afternoon. They were off to a good start before that, however, and equity indices across Europe closed down today as quickly unfolding developments in the Ukrainian political drama made headlines. Right now, the S&amp;P 500 is trading at 1843, down 0.1%. 10-year U.S. Treasury futures are up 0.2%, and the yield on the 10-year Treasury note is 2.67%, down four basis points from yesterday's close. The German DAX and French CAC 40 were the worst performers in the euro zone, both down 0.4% on the day. The London FTSE 100 closed down 0.5%. The release of monthly new home sales data at 10 AM ET revealed a 9.6% rise in new home sales in February, well above Wall Street's consensus estimate of a 3.4% decline. "This goes against the grain of housing softness in other reports, but the caution is that seasonal factors are big," says David Ader, head of government bond strategy at CRT Capital. "Still, it is what it is, and the [Treasury] market doesn't seem to care too much." In Ukraine, there are reports of violence in the pro-Russian region of Crimea. This morning, Russian president Vladimir Putin put Russian combat troops on high alert for a drill, expressing concern for the safety of ethnic Russians in Ukraine. The Ukrainian hryvnia is in freefall and weakness has spilled over into the Russian ruble as well. But markets around the world are on edge. "The current run up in all fixed income is being attributed to Russian President Putin's orders for immediate combat readiness of troops in central and western Russia," says Tom Tucci, head of U.S. Treasury trading at CIBC World Markets. The charts below show moves in various markets. Across the top from left to right are the S&amp;P 500, the U.S. dollar-Japanese yen exchange rate, and the euro-U.S. dollar exchange rate. Across the bottom are gold futures, 10-year U.S. Treasury futures, and December 2015 eurodollar futures. Thinkorswim FREE AppDownload
Peter LeedsPeter LeedsA volunteer army of computers facilitates the Bitcoin network (or "mines Bitcoin," in the cryptocurrency parlance), acting as the mechanism that moves money from place to place and effectively keeps Bitcoin operational. Mining Bitcoin generates more of it, so over time, the people running these computers are rewarded for their efforts. But the fluctuating value of Bitcoin and the increasing costs associated with mining present a problem. If Bitcoin's value drops too low, miners are no longer incented to keep their node of the Bitcoin network operational. According to Peter Leeds — financial expert and author of "Penny Stocks For Dummies" — it will no longer be worth it to mine bitcoins when the price dips below $350. If a bunch of miners should quit, we'll see a bottleneck, an increase in time required to complete a payment. If all of them should quit, Bitcoin payments stop going to their intended recipients. It would effectively end Bitcoin. BUSINESS INSIDER: What’s your general take on Bitcoin? The future of money? A means to launder it instead? PETER LEEDS: Bitcoin is a great concept, but there are too many obstacles to make it a reliable and usable currency over the long term. Regulation, taxation, volatility and diminishing returns for those who make money from it will result in the long-term failure of this experiment. BI: What’s the deal with Bitcoin’s volatility? PL: Anything so thinly traded is prone to fluctuation. At the same time, the currency is so new that it is passing through a phase of growing pains. Each new event (whether negative or positive) will have a magnified effect when traders extrapolate the potential results. BI: Can it be prevented? PL: The volatility will be greatest at first, and with anything so speculative there is almost nothing that can be done to smooth out the price fluctuations since they are caused by independent traders. Over time, speculation will decrease, as will mass-market interest, and the volatility will decrease in lock-step. BI: Should people be buying bitcoins right now as the value shrinks? PL: All investors should steer clear of the whole Bitcoin craze. Like anything, there was a great deal of money to be made by those who got involved early.  That early growth phase has now passed, and anyone coming late to the game (meaning getting involved now) will suffer loses as interest in the digital currency diminishes. BI: Is it worth it to start mining Bitcoins today? PL: Mining costs are in the hundreds, if not thousands, for electricity and the computer hardware. Meanwhile the rewards are decreasing, most recently falling from 50 to 25 bitcoins as reward for running a block (verifying transactions, securing the network). If the value of a single bitcoin drops to a certain tipping point (my analysis team and I peg it at $350 USD per bitcoin), mining no longer becomes economically feasible. This would put the entire network at risk of collapse. BI: What's the immediate future look like for Bitcoin? PL: We will see the first attrition among merchants in the coming months. Specifically, there are many businesses that currently accept Bitcoin, who will change their mind or stop taking the payment type. The volatility, additional reporting requirements, taxation and complication will become too much, and they will reverse course on the digital currency. FREE AppDownload
APSen. Joe ManchinSenator Joe Manchin (D-W.Va.) has called for a ban on Bitcoin.  In a letter addressed to the Treasury, Federal Reserve, and multiple financial regulatory agencies, Manchin calls the digital currency "disruptive to our economy" and highlights its potential for abuse by criminals. Earlier today, Bloomberg reported the FBI and U.S. Attorney are probing whether one-time behemoth Bitcoin exchange MtGox is guilty of criminal violations.  But Bitcoin's overall market cap remains relatively small, never reaching more than $14.5 billion. Here's the full release: MANCHIN DEMANDS FEDERAL REGULATORS BAN BITCOIN  Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Joe Manchin (D-W.Va.) sent a letter to federal regulators seeking a ban on Bitcoin, the virtual currency that is unregulated and unstable, and has been used in illicit activity, including drug trafficking and money laundering. Senator Manchin expressed concerns about the negative effect Bitcoin could have on America’s economy if this crypto-currency remains unregulated. The letter was sent to Secretary Lew, Chairwoman Yellen, Commissioner Curry, Acting Chairman Wetjen, Chairman Gruenberg, and Chairwoman White. Please read the full text of Senator Manchin’s letter below. Dear Secretary Lew, Chairwoman Yellen, Commissioner Curry, Acting Chairman Wetjen, Chairman Gruenberg, Chairwoman White: I write today to express my concerns about Bitcoin. This virtual currency is currently unregulated and has allowed users to participate in illicit activity, while also being highly unstable and disruptive to our economy. For the reasons outlined below, I urge regulators to take appropriate action to limit the abilities of this highly unstable currency. By way of background, Bitcoin is a crypto-currency that has gained notoriety in recent months due to its rising exchange value and relation to illegal transactions.  Each Bitcoin is defined by a public address and a private key, thus Bitcoin is not only a token of value but also a method for transferring that value.  It also means that Bitcoin provides a unique digital fingerprint, which allows for anonymous and irreversible transactions. The very features that make Bitcoin attractive to some also attract criminals who are able to disguise their actions from law enforcement. Due to Bitcoin’s anonymity, the virtual market has been extremely susceptible to hackers and scam artists stealing millions from Bitcoins users. Anonymity combined with Bitcoin’s ability to finalize transactions quickly, makes it very difficult, if not impossible, to reverse fraudulent transactions.  Bitcoin has also become a haven for individuals to buy black market items. Individuals are able to anonymously purchase items such as drugs and weapons illegally. I have already written to regulators once on the now-closed Silkroad, which operated for years in supplying drugs and other black market items to criminals, thanks in large part to the creation of Bitcoin. That is why more than a handful of countries, and their banking systems, have cautioned against the use of Bitcoin.  Indeed, it has been banned in two different countries—Thailand and China—and South Korea stated that it will not recognize Bitcoin as a legitimate currency.  Several other countries, including the European Union, have issued warnings to Bitcoin users as their respective governments consider options for regulating or banning its use entirely. While it is disappointing that the world leader and epicenter of the banking industry will only follow suit instead of making policy, it is high time that the United States heed our allies’ warnings. I am most concerned that as Bitcoin is inevitably banned in other countries, Americans will be left holding the bag on a valueless currency. Our foreign counterparts have already understood the wide range of problems even with Bitcoin’s legitimate uses - from its significant price fluctuations to its deflationary nature. Just last week, Bitcoin prices plunged after the currency’s major exchange, Mt. Gox, experienced technical issues. Two days ago, this exchange took its website down and is no longer even accessible. This was not a unique event; news of plummeting or skyrocketing Bitcoin prices is almost a weekly occurrence. In addition, its deflationary trends ensure that only speculators, such as so-called “Bitcoin miners,” will benefit from possessing the virtual currency. There is no doubt average American consumers stand to lose by transacting in Bitcoin. As of December 2013, the Consumer Price Index (CPI) shows 1.3% inflation, while a recent media report indicated Bitcoin CPI has 98% deflation. In other words, spending Bitcoin now will cost you many orders of wealth in the future. This flaw makes Bitcoin’s value to the U.S. economy suspect, if not outright detrimental. The clear ends of Bitcoin for either transacting in illegal goods and services or speculative gambling make me weary of its use.  The Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee issued a report just this month stating, “There is widespread concern about the Bitcoin system’s possible impact on national currencies, its potential for criminal misuse, and the implications of its use for taxation.” Before the U.S. gets too far behind the curve on this important topic, I urge the regulators to work together, act quickly, and prohibit this dangerous currency from harming hard-working Americans. Sincerely, U.S. Joe Manchin III United States Senator FREE AppDownload
The U.S. unemployment rate has fallen sharply since the darkest days of the great recession. Much of this decline is due to the drop in the labor force participation rate (LFPR). Some people have attributed the change to discouraged workers. Others have pointed to young people going back to school. Many have recognized that many baby boomers are retiring. Earlier this week, Business Insider's Matthew Boesler brought light to some underappreciated stats from the Census that actually quantify this.  "The monthly Current Population Survey conducted by the U.S. Census Bureau and the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (from which labor force participation data are derived) actually asks those leaving the labor force why they are doing so." And more and more people are talking about it. The numbers broke down the 12.6 million people who left the workforce since 2007 into five broad categories. According to the respondents, 5.5 million retired, 2.9 million went on disability, 2.5 million went to school, and just 1.4 million left because they were discouraged. Here's Deutsche Bank's pie chart. Deustche Bank FREE AppDownload
AP Michigan Rep. Dave Camp, the Republican chair of the House Ways and Means Committee, introduced on Wednesday the draft discussion of a plan to overhaul the nation's tax code. The proposal, though long-awaited, has virtually no chance of becoming law this year. Some of its provisions have Republicans, in particular, scurrying from the plan. Still, House Speaker John Boehner said that it was important to start the discussion.  In a statement, Michigan Rep. Sander Levin, the ranking Democratic member on the Ways and Means Committee, said Camp's proposal "opens up a discussion that Democrats have wanted to engage in on a bipartisan basis." "As Democrats, we believe it is vital that tax reform encourage economic growth, support working families, broaden the middle class, and address income inequality," Levin said.  "It must produce a fairer and more adequate tax code for all Americans, ensuring that wealthy individuals and corporations pay their fair share while preserving our long-term economic security in a fiscally responsible way that promotes jobs in the United States. It is through the lens of those priorities that we will review Chairman Camp’s proposal in detail as the Committee undertakes a thorough examination of his proposal." Here are some highlights of the plan: Here's the plan, in full (all 979 pages of it), which we'll be combing through:  Statutory Text Tax Reform Act of 2014 Discussion Draft  FREE AppDownload
Council on Foreign RelationsClick map to see interactive version.Several of the 2014 geopolitical risks that could affect the U.S. that the Council on Foreign Relations warned about in December are already happening. Political unrest in Ukraine, rated moderate likelihood, moderate impact, has erupted into "civil violence and protracted political instability." A political crisis in Venezuela, rated low likelihood, low impact, is starting to look a lot more likely, with protesters warning they have reached the point of no return. The CFR report and accompanying map (click for interactive version) is based on the assessment of approximately 1,200 government officials, foreign policy experts, and academics. Risk events are rated for likelihood and impact, with high impact events directly threatening the U.S. homeland, likely to trigger U.S. military involvement, or threatening the supply of critical U.S. strategic resources. Below are the top ten threats threats, starting with the worst, with links to CFR's analysis for more information: Strengthening of al-Qaeda in the Arabian PeninsulaHigh likelihood; moderate impact.The Arabian Peninsula is considered the "most dangerous al-Qaeda affiliate" to U.S. national security with more than two dozen U.S. diplomatic facilities in the area have shut down because of terrorist threats. In response, the United States will continue to escalate its drone counterterrorism campaign. Political Instability in JordanHigh likelihood; moderate impact.Jordan’s political stability and economy is severely threatened by the influx of Syrian and Palestinian refugees. The United Nations has estimated that Jordan will need $5.3 billion by the end of 2014 for its refugee crisis.  Sectarian Violence in IraqHigh likelihood; moderate impact.According to the CFR, if sectarian violence continues, Iraq may plunge into a "deeper state of chaos" and potentially into civil war.  Rising Security Threats in Pakistan High likelihood; moderate impact.The withdrawal of U.S. and allied forces from Afghanistan after 2014 could increase instability by allowing anti-state militants from Pakistan to establish a terrorist safe haven in Afghanistan.  Increased Violence and Instability in Afghanistan High likelihood; moderate impact.Failure to sign a security pact could undermine U.S. and allied forces efforts to improve the security environment of Afghanistan. The reestablishment of al-Qaeda groups throughout Afghanistan is one possibility if agreements are not met. Terrorist Attack on the U.S. HomelandModerate likelihood; high impact.Another attack on the scale of 9/11 is "plausible," according to CFR, with the White House warning that al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula "poses the greatest potential threat." Iranian Nuclear CrisisModerate likelihood; high impact.The prospects for a breakthrough in the nuclear standoff with Iran have recently improved. A lasting settlement of the dispute is still uncertain and even "the possibility of military strikes cannot be discounted," according to the CFR. North Korean CrisisModerate likelihood; high impact.The risk of conflict on the Korean peninsula remains high since there are  continuous efforts by North Korea to develop nuclear weapons and long range missiles against UN Security Council resolutions. The execution of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un’s uncle following charges of treason has increased the potential for political instability and unrest in the country. Civil War in Syria Moderate likelihood; high impact.According to the CFR, ongoing civil strife threatens the stability of U.S. allies, particularly Turkey and Jordan. Increased regional instability could create another safe haven for extremist groups active in Syria, like al-Qaeda affiliates, Islamic State of Iraq, and Hezbollah. Cyberattack on U.S. Infrastructure Moderate likelihood; high impact.Due to the increasingly sophisticated nature of cyberattacks, such an attack on critical infrastructure could be significantly disruptive or potentially devastating. Energy is the most vulnerable industry, and therefore a large-scale attack could temporarily halt the supply of water, electricity, gas, transportation, communication, and financial institutions. And 23 more threats: Violence in the Central African Republic High likelihood; low impact. Internal Violence in South Sudan High likelihood; low impact. Escalation of Drug-Related Violence in Mexico Moderate likelihood; moderate impact. Political Instability in Libya Moderate likelihood; moderate impact. Increased Violence in Egypt Moderate likelihood; moderate impact. Indo-Pakistani Military Confrontation Moderate likelihood; moderate impact. Continuing Conflict in Somalia with Al-Shabab Moderate likelihood; moderate impact. Sectarian Violence in Lebanon Moderate likelihood; moderate impact. Political Unrest in Ukraine Moderate likelihood; moderate impact.  South China Sea Armed Confrontation Low likelihood; high impact. Increasing Sectarian Violence in Nigeria Low likelihood; high impact. East China Sea Armed Confrontation Low likelihood; high impact.  Political Crisis in Venezuela Low likelihood; low impact.  Violence in Eastern Democratic Republic of Congo Moderate likelihood; low impact.  Sectarian Violence in Myanmar Moderate likelihood; low impact.  Internal Instability in Sudan Moderate likelihood; low impact.  Sino-Indian Clash Low likelihood; moderate impact. Sudan-South Sudan Military Conflict Moderate likelihood; low impact.  Conflict Between Armenia and Azerbaijan Low likelihood; low impact. Violence in Bangladesh Moderate likelihood; low impact.  Growing Instability in Thailand Moderate likelihood; low impact.  Conflict in Kurdish-Dominated Regions Moderate likelihood; low impact.  Destabilization of Mali Low likelihood; moderate impact. FREE AppDownload
In New York restaurant years, being around for a decade basically makes you geriatric. So BLT Steak is having a blow out for its 10th birthday, and the entire BLT empire is getting involved. The birthday is on Monday, and BLT Steak will be closed for a bash with its best friends. However, if you're not on that list you can still stop by one of the other restaurants under the BLT umbrella to celebrate the wonder of old age. We'll spell it out for you, this means really cheap, good steak. From BLT's announcement: All BLT restaurants, including BLT Prime (111 E 22nd St), BLT Fish (21 W 17th St), BLT Burger (470 6th Ave), BLT Bar &amp; Grill (123 Washington St), will be offering steep discounts for dinner on their regular menu items to commemorate their big day. (*Note that BLT Steak will be closed for a private celebration event) Appetizers across the restaurants like the Caesar Salad and Grilled Double Cut Smoked Bacon will be slashed to $3.03. All sides and desserts will also be offered at this price, as well as wine, beer and specialty cocktails. Mains like Filet Mignon and Rack of Lamb at BLT Prime, and Tasmanian Sea Trout at BLT Fish can be had for just $33.04. You're welcome.   FREE AppDownload
U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, Current Population Survey (CPS), annual averages, 1977—2010Chart 1: The Blizzard of '96. Perhaps the most significant weather event to hit the U.S. economy in modern times was the blizzard of January 1996. About 12.5 million American workers reported they were unable to work due to bad weather that month (chart 1) — by far the most in the history of the employment situation survey conducted by the Bureau of Labor Statistics — and nonfarm payroll growth went negative, dragging 10-year U.S. Treasury yields down as investors decided to put money into bonds and play it safe. BLS, FRB, Haver Analytics, DB Global Markets ResearchChart 2: The aftermath of the Blizzard of '96.February saw a big snap back higher in hiring as weather effects receded, and over the next six months, 10-year yields rose more than 100 basis points (chart 2). "Several clients have brought up this episode in discussions of what is going on at the moment," says Torsten Slok, chief international economist at Deutsche Bank. Unseasonally harsh winter weather this year has been a hot topic in the investor community as it has coincided with weakness in key economic data points like employment, retail sales, housing, industrial production, and construction. Coming into 2014, many were positioned for just the opposite — an acceleration in the U.S. economy, carrying over from outperformance in the second half of 2013 — meaning they were short fixed income in anticipation of higher rates. However, weaker-than-expected December, January, and February economic data releases have caused investors to cover these short positions, pushing yields lower. Market participants are waiting to see just how much of the recent slowdown is due to weather. Various economists have tried to estimate this — Goldman Sachs economist David Mericle, for example, says weather accounts for a little more than half of the weakness — but the question is a hard one to answer, and given continued bad weather throughout the month of February, investors likely won't get a definitive read on the situation until April, when March economic data are released. The sign from the stock market — which continues to push to new all-time highs — is that investors are buying the story that the weather is the principal cause of weakness, as chart 3 illustrates. BofA Merrill Lynch Global ResearchChart 3: Stocks versus interest rates over the past few months."This divergence suggests to us that U.S. rates (and the USD by extension) have much at stake in how the weather story will play out," says David Woo, global head of rates and currencies research at BofA Merrill Lynch. "If the weather hypothesis turns out to be correct and data begin to improve with the weather, Treasury yields and the U.S. dollar have to go up a lot just to play catch-up with stocks. This is why we continue to believe there is nothing more important than U.S. weather for the outlook for the rates and FX markets over the next four to six weeks. To us, understanding the weather deeply has never been more important than right now." In a new report, Woo introduces the BofAML "Extreme Winter Weather" index, which attempts to put the severity of this year's winter weather conditions into historical context. The EWW has three components, as outlined in the report: Extreme cold: We define this as the difference between the number of U.S. states whose temperature over the month was at least one standard deviation below its historical average and the number of cold states whose temperature was at least one standard deviation above its historical average. [1] Extreme precipitation: We define this as the difference between the number of states with freezing temperature whose precipitation over the month was at least one standard deviation above its historical average and the number of states with freezing temperature whose precipitation was at least one standard deviation below its historical average. Extreme snow storms: We define this as the number of snow storms that fall in the top 50 of the most severe storms since 1953, weighted by its NESIS score. [2] On the first measure — temperature — Woo says this winter is the 10th-coldest since 1960 and the second-coldest since 1984. Precipitation, the second measure, has been in line with historical averages, but this year's snow storm score is the third-most extreme reading since 1960. BofA Merrill Lynch Global Investment ResearchChart 4: BofAML's extreme winter weather (EWW) index.These three measures combined, according to the EWW index, make this winter the third-most severe since 1960, just behind 1977 and 2009 (chart 4). If investors are already buying the weather story, though, then why aren't yields rising alongside stocks? Woo offers one suggestion (the Fed): The vigorous rally of the S&amp;P 500 in the face of steadily worsening U.S. data over the past three weeks can only mean one thing, in our view — the weather hypothesis has now taken hold in the market. An informal survey we conducted last week suggests that most market participants believe that poor weather has been behind three quarters of the weak data since the second week of January. At the same time, many investors think that if it turns out that there is more to the soft data than the weather, the Fed can always be counted on to slow down the pace of tapering. This latter line of thinking is probably why the S&amp;P 500 and 10-year Treasury yields have recently parted ways, with the former making a new year-high this week while the 10-year Treasury yield has been trading in a tight range some 30 basis points below its own year-high. There's another (perhaps simpler) reason, though: It's just more expensive to short Treasuries than it is to buy stocks. "Being short rates is a bit like a waiting taxi with a running meter," explain Alex Roever and Kimberly Harano, interest rate strategists at JPMorgan. "It’s costly, and if you're unsure how long you’ll be waiting, you're probably better off letting this cab go and flagging another one later. It is the same with interest rates right now, and we suspect market participants may be waiting a while before they’re ready to resume their journey to higher yields." Indeed, we are likely to get another spate of bad economic data releases in March reflecting the extreme winter storm conditions in February. However, there are signs that the economic fundamentals are already starting to bounce back, according to Morgan Stanley analysts Ajit Agrawal and Spencer Hill. "Our primary data sources include a nationwide consumer spending panel, a panel of permit-issuing jurisdictions and real estate brokers, and a business formation dataset," write the analysts in a note to clients. "The hard data we observed month-to-date in February suggest that last-month’s weather-related declines in real activity are beginning to reverse. Economic activity showed signs of bottoming out in the week ended 2/8, coincident with the peak in severe weather, and began to improve into week 2 and week 3. Valentine’s Day retail spending was particularly encouraging following the soft holiday season. Underlying employment trends also remained positive throughout the calendar month, reflecting low layoff rates." Volatility has been subdued, but if we see more signs that the data are turning around, higher rates may lead to more turbulence in the Treasury market as the 2014 recovery theme re-emerges. [1] Cold states are defined as the 40 states with lower temperatures than the remaining 10 (which we call warm states). We are assuming that if Minnesota has a particularly warm winter it will have a better impact on economic activities than if Florida has a particularly a warm winter. [2] The Northeast Snowfall Impact Scale (NESIS) developed by Paul Kocin and Louis Uccellini of the National Weather Service (Kocin and Uccellini, 2004) characterizes and ranks high-impact Northeast snowstorms. These storms have large areas of 10 inch snowfall accumulations and greater. NESIS has five categories: Extreme, Crippling, Major, Significant, and Notable. The index differs from other meteorological indices in that it uses population information in addition to meteorological measurements. Thus NESIS gives an indication of a storm's societal impacts. This scale was developed because of the impact Northeast snowstorms can have on the rest of the country in terms of transportation and economic impact. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia/Tim EvansonBloomberg's Patricia Hurtado reports the FBI is probing possible criminal violations at MtGox, citing two people familiar with the case. She also confirms WSJ's Christopher Matthews' report from last night that NY U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara is investigating.  "Bharara’s office has requested documents from businesses that provide Bitcoin services and the FBI is reviewing the matter, said the people, who requested anonymity because the matter isn’t public," she writes. "One of the people said that the matter is in its preliminary stages and isn’t yet a formal investigation." The U.S. Attorney's office has not responded to a request for comment from BI. This morning, Gox CEO Mark Karpeles put out a statement saying in part he is "working very hard with the support of different parties to find a solution to our recent issues."  Gox is alleged to have suffered a slow-drip years-long theft at the hands of hackers who exploited vulnerabilities in the exchange's wallet software. For months, users have complained of not being able to withdraw their funds from the exchange in a timely manner, and there had long been talk in the Bitcoin community of liquidity shortfalls at the Tokyo-based exchange, though none of this information has been absolutely confirmed. Bitcoin prices aren't moving much on the news, and now stand at $575 on Coindesk. FREE AppDownload
APThe latest sweeping attempt at tax reform wasn't just dead upon its arrival, which is scheduled for Wednesday afternoon. In the words of former Bush administration official Tony Fratto, it was dead before arrival. Here's why no one in Congress wants anything to do with Camp's bill.  Michigan Rep. Dave Camp, the Republican chair of the House Ways and Means Committee, is set to introduce his proposal for an overhaul of the nation's tax code Wednesday afternoon. However, in the days and weeks leading up to the unveiling, there has been somewhat unusual broad bipartisan opposition to the legislation. Republicans, in particular, are fretting that the bill will hand Democrats plenty of gifts to use as Republican attacks in an election year.  "Are there going to be areas here where Republicans are going to be vulnerable?" a Democratic Hill aide told Business Insider. "Yes, and that's probably why you're seeing so many Republicans run away from this already before it's even been released." Publicly, many Republicans have been distancing themselves from the legislation, because they see it as a potential problem for the party's efforts to slow walk its legislative agenda until the midterm elections. Any hint of controversy could threaten the GOP's goal to win more of a House majority and, more importantly, to take back control of the Senate. It's why, recently, Republicans have ceded the fight on fiscal issues like raising the debt ceiling. On Wednesday, even House Speaker John Boehner wouldn't publicly offer his support for the legislation. In a press conference, he said it was good to start a "conversation" about tax reform. But, when asked if the party was prepared to back Camp's plan, he told a reporter, "You're getting a little bit ahead of yourself." Camp is likely making this play because it's the last year of his chairmanship on the Ways and Means Committee — and because one of the dreams of every Ways and Means chair is to lead a comprehensive overhaul of the nation's too-complicated tax system. According to reports in The Washington Post and elsewhere, Camp's proposal calls for the number of tax brackets to be slashed from seven to just two — 25 percent and 10 percent. It also would impose a 10 percent surtax on certain types of earned income above $450,000 a year, something that is likely to hit constituencies that normally align with Republicans.  The simplification of tax brackets would also likely eliminate some of the more popular tax breaks in the current code, such as the deduction for home mortgage interest. According to Politico, Camp's plan also includes an idea that originated in the White House — an unspecified tax that would be imposed on big banks, in part to offset the bailout some of them received during the financial crisis. Republican Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell already threw cold water on the idea Camp's plan has any chance of becoming law.  "I think we will not be able to finish the job, regretfully," McConnell told reporters Tuesday. "I don't see how we can." Although the proposal has some elements of interest to Democrats, it's also unlikely that they would be willing to accept a reduction of the top tax bracket to 25 percent after pushing it to 39.6 percent in the fiscal-cliff deal. Meanwhile, though Camp had struck an alliance with Democratic former Senate Finance Committee Chairman Max Baucus — the new U.S. Ambassador to China — it's unclear how the current chairman, Democratic Oregon Senator Ron Wyden will approach the issue. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Paul HackettBurberry CEO Angela Ahrendts.The most successful people in the world didn't make it on their own. That's why LinkedIn asked over 90 leaders across a variety of industries to share the best advice they've ever received and continue using to this day. Many recalled something that their parents, teachers, or career mentors taught them that has never left their hearts and minds. These bits of wisdom inspired them to stay focused, compassionate, and driven, and continue to motivate them.  Scroll down to read the most influential advice used by some of the business world's top minds. FREE AppDownload
AnonymousIs GS Elevator Tweeter John Lefevre working alone? This week, New York Times' columnist Andrew Sorkin exposed the identity of @GSElevator, the anonymous Twitter scribe who relays overheard conversations from inside the elevators at Goldman Sachs. But after speaking with Lefevre, New York Magazine writer Kevin Roose isn't all that convinced we pinned the right guy. In fact, Roose, who did the first Q&amp;A with @GSElevator in 2011, offers up a theory that there's more than one person behind the infamous Twitter account. For the last three years, the person behind the account has amassed more than 641,000 followers with a little more than 1,000 tweets. According to Sorkin, @GSElevator is John Lefevre, a 34-year-old ex-bond trader living in Texas who has never worked for Goldman Sachs. Roose, however, thinks Lefevre may have had help. Roose writes:   I think there are several people responsible for the updating the @GSElevator account, as well as related accounts on Facebook and Instagram. I believe that @GSElevator was either multiple people from the start, or that in the three years since the account was opened, it has morphed into a kind of cross-platform performance-art project, with multiple people creating content under the @GSElevator aegis. The main reason he thinks there are mutliple folks behind the account is that the writing style varies so much from platform to platform.  Part of this is a simple smell test – the sharp, concise writing contained in @GSElevator's tweets has always read like the work of a different author than the loose, elementary prose in the book proposal and the writing contained in some of the account's articles on sites like Business Insider. Read more of Roose' theory at Daily Intelligencer &gt; FREE AppDownload
The check is becoming obsolete, and the phone is taking over. BIIHere's the evidence: This has big implications for banks. It has never been more important for banks to make their mobile sites and apps as easy to use as possible for online bill paying, check depositing, and account management. In a report from BI Intelligence, we looked at mobile banking's recent growth spurt — the latest mobile banking innovations, the banks and startups that are leading the way in mobile payments and banking, how consumer adoption of mobile banking is trending in countries around the world, and what consumer hesitations might impede mobile banking's future. Access The Full Report By Signing Up For A Free Trial Today &gt;&gt;&gt; And it's not just about giving today's bank customer what they want. It's also about bringing in new clients. Banks compete vigorously to gain new customers and enlarge their deposit base. And mobile has become the most important new battleground where this competition is playing out.  Mobile banking features help banks make inroads with younger consumers, who may be banking for the first time and could become lifelong customers. The banks that establish a reputation for mobile innovation are likely to benefit in the future from greater market share and more engaged — and high-margin — customers. These are examples of the more advanced mobile banking features: To access BI Intelligence's full report on Mobile Banking, along with BI Intelligence's in-depth coverage of the Payments Industry, sign up for a free trial subscription here. BII   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Umit BektasThe U.S. dollar is up 1.3% against the Turkish Lira. Turkey continues to face political strife. It was reported yesterday that there were recordings of Turkish prime minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan talking to his son about how to hide a large amount of money. That triggered protests across the country. But Turkey has also struggled domestically since the Istanbul riots last summer. Confidence in the government has also waned after a December corruption probe. To top it all off investors are worried about the country's wide current account deficit and its construction-fueled growth. Meanwhile, the European Commission cut its 2014 GDP forecast for Turkey to 2.5%, down from 3%. Here's a look at the intra-day chart showing the run-up of the USD against the lira: YahooFinance FREE AppDownload
AP PhotoHouse Ways and Means Committee Chairman Rep. Dave Camp, R-Mich., left, walks with House Energy and Commerce Committee Rep. Fred Upton, R-Mich. to a Republican caucus meeting on Capitol Hill in Washington, Wednesday, Feb. 26, 2014. Camp plans to outline a major rewrite of the nation’s tax code today that would lower tax rates for individuals and corporations, but recoup the revenue by eliminating or reducing popular tax breaks.How does a Republican dare to stand up to Wall Street and propose a tax bill that slaughters some if the industry's sacred cows? They stop getting Wall Street money. At least that's how it appears it went in Senator Dave Camp's (R-MI) case. He is co-authoring a bill with Senator Max Baucus (D-MT) that would raise taxes on financial institutions with more than $500 billion in assets — so the JP Morgan's and Goldman Sachs' of the world. The bill would also close a loophole called 'carried interest' that allows profits from hedge funds and private equity firms to be taxed at a lower 15% rate. Here's how Camp described it in an editorial in the Wall Street Journal: We can clean up provisions like "carried interest" that allow certain private-equity firms to get the investment-income tax rate on what anyone else would call normal wage income. We'll also put an end to special depreciation benefits related to corporate jets and close, once and for all, the infamous "John Edwards" loophole that allows a select few to avoid employment taxes on their income. The revenue gained from that provision, and many others like shifting to Roth-style retirement accounts for those contributing more than $8,750 (only 5% of the workforce) can be used to lower tax rates across the board. It's a bold move, and outlets like Politico say that it's dead on arrival to the GOP-controlled House of Representatives. Still, the bill is still likely to do two ugly things during an election year — cause infighting among Republicans, and allow Camp and Baucus to be as loud about this uncomfortable (for Wall Street) issue as they like. And Camp has room to raise his voice. In 2011 and 2012, financial firms were top contributors to Camp's operation. Private Equity firm Blackstone and its employees Camp's ranked number two on the list of Camp's top 20 sources of campaign cash during that time, throwing down $48,000. Hedge fund Elliott Management, founded by vocal conservative billionaire Paul Singer came in third with $45,000, according to OpenSecrets.org. Private equity firm Carlyle Group, JP Morgan, Bank of America, Citigroup, and UBS also made the top 20 in 2011-2012. In 2013 and 2014, though, Camp's donor list changed. UBS was the only Wall Street firm that cracked with top 20 donor list with an $11,000 contribution. So Camp is free to raise as much hell as he likes on this issue. And some Wall Streeters may not be mad at him for it. Pershing Square founder Bill Ackman has said hedge fund managers like him wouldn't mind a carried interest tax hike. In early 2012, he said carried interest is "not as a good a deal" for hedge funds as it is for private equity. All in all, this is an old dance. Since 2007, Congressman Sander Levin (D-MI) has raised the carried interest issue in the House 3 times. Ultimately, his attempts to raise the rate have always been thwarted in the Senate. Back in 2010, carried interest was left alone as part of a deal between Obama and Republicans that also continued Bush era tax cuts. In February 2012 Levin brought the issue up in a bill called the Carried Interest Fairness Act and got shot down. We'll see what happens this time. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/SupriBillionaire and former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg For the first time, New York City has surpassed Moscow for the most billionaire residents, according to the latest global rich list from Hurun, a group that tracks wealth in China.  According to Hurun, New York added 14 billionaires this year, bringing its total to 84. Moscow, meanwhile, lost a billionaire, lowering its headcount to 77.  The U.S. is home to the most billionaires — 481 — followed by China, with 358 billionaires. More than half (51%) of all billionaires now live in Asia, according to Hurun. The following table shows where the most billionaires live by country and city, and their change year-over-year: Hurun REUTERS/Anton Golubev (Cars drive past sightseers on a bridge over the Moskva river near a Stalin era skyscraper in central Moscow March 1, 2012.  FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Gillian WongUighur scholar and advocate Ilham Tohti could face the death sentence.BEIJING (Reuters) - A prominent ethnic Uighur economist is unlikely to receive a fair trial and could face the death penalty after being charged with separatism in China's far western Xinjiang region, his lawyer said on Wednesday. Beijing police last month detained Ilham Tohti, a professor who has championed the rights of Xinjiang's large Muslim Uighur minority. Unrest in Xinjiang has killed more than 100 people in the past year, prompting authorities to toughen their stance. Tohti was taken after his detention to Xinjiang's regional capital Urumqi and on Tuesday his wife was notified of the charges. His case has draw concern from the United States and Europe over human rights abuses. "To a degree, his name has already been blackened in the court of public opinion," Tohti's lawyer Li Fangping said by telephone from Urumqi, where he said he has not been allowed to see his client after a month and a half in detention. "We'll have to wait and see if his trial will be fair. We are not feeling very optimistic." If found guilty, Li said, Tohti was most likely to receive a sentence between 10 years and life in prison, but China's criminal code also provides for the death sentence for separatism. With strategic border regions like Xinjiang and Tibet populated with ethnic minorities, separatism is considered a serious crime. "It includes the possibility (of a death sentence). If there are no other violent circumstances, it should be 10 years to life," Li said. Tohti's wife dismissed the charge as "ridiculous". Li said he believed his client was "an extremely open and transparent person. All that he has done is in his interviews, in class lectures and in his online content." The charge is the latest sign of the government's hardening stance on dissent in Xinjiang, gripped by periodic outbursts of violence often pitting Uighurs against ethnic Han Chinese. Many Uighurs chafe at restrictions on their culture and religion, although the government says it grants them broad freedoms. China blames some of the violence on Islamists who want to establish an independent state called East Turkestan. But rights groups and exiles say China exaggerates the threat to justify its firm grip on energy-rich Xinjiang, which borders ex-Soviet Central Asia, Afghanistan, Pakistan and India. CHALLENGING THE GOVERNMENT'S VERSION Advocates for Tohti say he has challenged the government's version of several incidents involving Uighurs. That includes what China says was its first major suicide attack, in Beijing's Tiananmen Square in October, involving militants from Xinjiang, by pointing out inconsistencies in the official accounts. "China's accusation of so-called separatism is a political excuse to suppress Uighurs who express differing opinions," Dilxat Raxit, a spokesman for the main Uighur exile group, the World Uyghur Congress, said in an emailed statement. Tohti, who teaches at Beijing's Minzu University which specializes in ethnic minority studies, told Reuters in November that state security agents had threatened him for speaking to foreign reporters. "I have never associated myself with a terrorist organization or a foreign-based group," Tohti told Radio Free Asia's Uyghur Service last year in a statement he asked to have released if he was taken into custody. "I have relied only on pen and paper to diplomatically request the human rights, legal rights, and autonomous regional rights for the Uyghurs." The foreign ministry, the only government department which regularly answers questions from the foreign media, declined to comment directly on the case. "I believe that China is a country with rule of law and judicial authorities will try the case in a fair and legal way," spokeswoman Hua Chunying told a press briefing on Wednesday. (Additional reporting by Ben Blanchard; Editing by Ron Popeski) FREE AppDownload
Lam Yik Fei/Getty Images Pro-democracy activists hold a sign with an image of former chief editor of the Ming Pao daily Kevin Lau Chun-to as they attend a candlelight vigil at a hospital, to urge the police to solve the stabbing incident involving Lau, on February 26, 2014 in Hong Kong, Hong Kong.  HONG KONG (Reuters) - A former chief editor of a major Hong Kong newspaper known for its critical reporting was stabbed and seriously wounded on Wednesday in an attack that has fuelled concerns about what many see as an erosion of media freedoms. A man in a helmet attacked Kevin Lau, former chief editor of the Ming Pao daily, in broad daylight on a leafy harbourfront street, slashing him in the back several times. The assailant rode off on a motorcycle with an accomplice. The attack took place days after 6,000 journalists marched to Hong Kong's government headquarters to demand the city's leaders uphold press freedom against what they see as intrusions from mainland China in a politically sensitive year. Doctors said Lau's injuries were severe and included a 16-cm (6.5-inch) gash. He remains in a critical condition. Police said they had so far no clues as to who might have carried out the attack. No one had been detained. An incident of such brutality is unusual in the former British colony, which reverted to Chinese rule in 1997. Such an attack, however, aimed at wounding rather than killing, was widely interpreted as a warning to Hong Kong's vibrant media that has remained a bastion of critical reporting on China, a far cry from mainland China, where media are subject to heavy censorship and state control. The Hong Kong Journalists' Association called on authorities to "pursue his attackers and those malignant forces behind them without fear or favor. The attackers must be brought to justice as quickly as possible to allay public fears." Media outlets have been subject to attacks. The offices of a small independent media outlet were recently ransacked and a car rammed the front gate of the home of Jimmy Lai, publisher of Hong Kong's anti-Beijing newspaper, the Apple Daily. In the late 1990s, two prominent media figures, Albert Cheng and Leung Tin-wai, were slashed by men with knives in cases that remain unsolved. BEIJING RESISTING PRESSURE FOR FULL DEMOCRACY Hong Kong, a freewheeling capitalist hub, enjoys a high degree of autonomy and freedom. But Beijing's Communist Party leaders have resisted public pressure for full democracy, stoking tensions as the city prepares for a direct vote for its leader in 2017. Pro-democracy groups have threatened to barricade the city's financial and business center this summer if Beijing does not allow a poll with opposition activists. Some insiders at Ming Pao said recent exposes on assets hidden offshore by China's elite - in collaboration with the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ) - could have been a factor for the attack. Lau, a respected Hong Kong-born editor at Ming Pao with a straight-talking style, was recently replaced by a Malaysian Chinese journalist with suspected pro-Beijing leanings, who is expected to take up his duties this week. Lau's removal to a lesser role in the group sparked a revolt in the Ming Pao newsroom by journalists who suggested the paper's editorial independence might be undermined. "This attack will damage perceptions of Hong Kong as a safe city and its reputation for media freedoms," said Phyllis Tsang of the Ming Pao Staff Concern Group. Co-founded by martial arts novelist Louis Cha in the late 1950s, Ming Pao is now owned by a low-key Malaysian media baron with extensive Chinese business interests - Tiong Hiew King - through his Media Chinese International. Hong Kong's leader, Leung Chun-ying, said the city would not tolerate this kind of "savage attack". Democracy activists denounce Leung as a loyalist to Beijing's Communist leadership. The U.S. Consulate said in a statement it was "deeply concerned" by the assault. (Additional reporting by Greg Torode; Editing by Ron Popeski) FREE AppDownload
This chart, from Brett Ryan, an economist at Deutsche Bank, shows the intra-year range in 10-year U.S. Treasury yields for each year going back to 1962. "Since July of last year, the 10-year has been in a 50 basis point range, peaking slightly above 3%," writes Ryan in a note to clients. "History suggests that such periods of low volatility are the exception rather than the norm." Deutsche Bank's year-end target for the yield on the 10-year Treasury note is 4.00%, one of the highest on Wall Street and 130 basis points above today's levels at 2.70%. Though it seems far away, Ryan suggests that given historical averages, there's still a "decent probability" that the 10-year gets to Deutsche Bank's target. "The five-year trailing average peak-to-trough move is 155 basis points and the ten-year trailing average is 143 basis points," he writes. "Over the last 52 years, there have been only 10 occasions where the intra-year move was less than 100 basis points. Moreover, there have been only six periods when the intra-year move was less than 90 basis points. Thus, if the 2014 growth outlook remains largely intact, 10-year rates have significant scope to move higher." Deutsche Bank FREE AppDownload
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Apple Inc urged a U.S. appeals court to throw out a judge's "radical" finding that it violated antitrust law by manipulating electronic book prices, and blamed publishers for running a conspiracy it claimed to know nothing about. The request on Tuesday night came after U.S. District Judge Denise Cote in New York concluded last July after a nonjury trial that Apple had played a "central role" in illegally scheming as early as December 2009 with five publishers to raise e-book prices and impede competitors such as Amazon.com Inc. The publishers previously agreed to pay more than $166 million to settle related antitrust charges. Apple introduced e-books in 2010 to help boost sales for its then-new iPad tablet. In a filing with the 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in New York, Apple said it "had no knowledge that the publishers were engaged in a conspiracy" at any time. It said it lawfully took advantage of market "discord" and the publishers' own frustrations with Amazon, and "kick-started competition in a highly concentrated market, delivering higher output, lower price levels, and accelerated innovation." Cote's decision "is a radical departure from modern antitrust law," Apple said. "If allowed to stand, the ruling will stifle innovation, chill competition, and harm consumers." The Cupertino, California-based company asked the 2nd Circuit to reverse Cote's decision or else give it a new trial before a different judge. Apple also again faulted Cote's appointment of Washington lawyer Michael Bromwich to monitor its antitrust compliance, calling that oversight unconstitutional. The U.S. Department of Justice, which brought the case, was not immediately available on Wednesday for comment. That agency is expected to reply in writing to Apple's request. In her decision, Cote also found Apple liable to 33 U.S. states for antitrust violations. She is expected to consider possible damages later this year. Apple said the states and private plaintiffs sought more than $800 million of damages. On February 10, the 2nd Circuit rejected Apple's request to halt Bromwich's oversight during its appeal. The case is U.S. v. Apple Inc, 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, No. 13-3741. (Reporting by Jonathan Stempel in New York; Editing by Lisa Von Ahn) FREE AppDownload
ReutersTesla is up 4.5% to $258.89, and earlier it hit an all-time intraday high of $265. The stock went on a tear on Tuesday, after Morgan Stanley's Adam Jonas raised his price target to $320, from $153. Consumer Reports also named the Tesla Model S the best overall car of 2014, yesterday. Here's some high praise from the report: "The Tesla is brimming with innovation. Its massive, easy-to-use 17-inch touch screen controls most functions. And with its totally keyless operation, full Internet access, and ultra-quiet, zero-emission driving experience, the Tesla is a glimpse into a future where cars and computers coexist in seamless harmony." Today, Jason Schwarz of TheStreet.com argued Tesla is more of a tech company than the likes of Facebook. From Schwarz: "Tesla's market cap sits at a paltry $31 billion compared to Facebook at $178 billion, Google at $410 billion and Apple at $470 billion. Tesla could be headed to $1,000 over the next 3 years to 5 years based on these market cap comparisons." Schwarz is long Tesla. In the past couple of weeks, the stock got a boost from speculation that Apple was in talks to buy Tesla, which was later discredited. It also got a boost after the green auto maker announced 2014 sales forecasts and beat Q4 earnings expectations. Tesla is also expected to make an announcement about its Gigafactory this week that is intended to design batteries for mass market cars. Here's a look at Tesla's stunning run up since it announced its first quarterly profit last year. Google Finance FREE AppDownload
Google MapsTeachers are the symbol of the American middle class: they’re educated, they’re crucial to society, they help mold the future of America. In California, the average salary of the 300,000 or so elementary, middle, and high school teachers was 123.7% of the national average for the 2011-12 school year, according to the National Education Association, in fifth place among all 50 states and Washington DC. They currently earn on average $69,300. Not exactly a pittance. But it’s a ludicrous pittance if they’re trying to buy a home in California where the Fed has succeeded in blowing another fabulous housing bubble. This time, it wasn’t the middle class who live and work here who drove up prices, abetted by eager banks and mortgage brokers with their liar loans, but investors awash in nearly free money from the Fed – private equity firms, REITs, institutional investors, even individual investors – and the people in the tech scene that is awash in the same kind of limitless, no-questions-asked money. Nationwide, home prices soared 13.4% in 2013, the biggest jump since the bubble days of 2005, based on the S&amp;P/Case-Shiller index. Only the Fed can explain why that kind of jump was a bubble back then but isn’t a bubble now. So in California, a teacher with the average salary of $69,300 is facing a housing market where the median home, according to a study by electronic real-estate broker Redfin, lists for $485,000: On an average annual salary of $69,300, a teacher should pay no more than about $1,600 a month. Given current interest rates, property taxes, home insurance, and home owners association expenses, a teacher can afford a $260,000 single family home or condo. Of the 50,559 for sale in California, just 17.4 percent are listed below $260,000. And it’s not just teachers for whom homeownership has been pushed out of reach: 71% of Californians are earning less than $100,000 per year. In the inland areas, teachers have more choices: in San Bernardino County in Southern California, 45% of the listings are within reach. In Riverside County, 28%. In the Central Valley, in San Joaquin County, 35% of the listings are within reach. In coastal areas, it’s tough: in San Diego 6.4% of the listings are affordable for the average teacher salary; in Orange County, 9.0%; in Los Angeles 8.7%. In the Bay Area, it’s even tougher. In the counties of Alameda and Contra Costa across the Bay from San Francisco – which include two of the most dangerous cities in the country, Oakland and Richmond – 9.7% and 8.6% of the listed homes are within reach of the average teacher salary. But that drops to 2.5% in Monterey County; to 1.2% in the counties of Marin just north of the Golden Gate Bridge and San Mateo in Silicon Valley; to 0.3% in Santa Cruz County; and in my crazy and beloved San Francisco, to 0.0%! If you’re teacher in San Francisco, forget homeownership. Redfin explains: In San Francisco County, the average teacher earns $59,700 per year, and there are zero homes for sale that we have calculated as affordable on such a salary. By comparison, there are 139 listings with price tags over $1 million. As a teacher, unless you’re married to a rich spouse, you’re out of luck trying to buy a home in San Francisco. You’re welcome to work here, but you can’t buy a home here. In San Mateo County, where the average salary for teachers is $70,600, Redfin found seven homes for sale that would be within reach. Not exactly a mansion but a “0 bed, 1 bath, 490 sqft condo.” Raising a family in place like that is going to be tight. But there were 254 homes listed for more than $1 million. That’s the granular detail of a housing bubble. But the Fed steadfastly refuses to acknowledge these bubbles. As they therefore don’t exist, the Fed continues with its easy-money policies, perhaps to stimulate its illusory “wealth effect” where the lucky ones feel richer and therefore might spend more. It never sees bubbles until after they implode. And then it awkwardly denies that anyone could have seen them beforehand. But teachers and middle-class working stiffs who are trying to buy a home in the coastal areas of California can explain this bubble to the Fed today. So if Fed Chair Janet Yellen has a minute, she should fly out here and look at what she and her colleagues have wrought before she promises more easy money. Normally, first-time buyers, a powerful economic energy, create real demand and make the housing market grow. We’ve been praying for their arrival like we’ve been praying for rain in parched California. But the more we pray, the fewer there are. Read....Without Them, The Housing ‘Recovery’ Remains A Sham FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
jesse?The demise of Bitcoin-exchange MtGox appears to be upon us: They've halted all trading operations, and have been subpoenaed by both U.S. and Japanese authorities.  Hardcore Bitcoin supporters say they're relieved, as they're ready to put the months-long saga of Gox's issues behind them.  But to the outside world, the fall of what was once the largest Bitcoin exchange in the world is carrying a lot more weight. In a new note, Citi currency strategist — and the bank's defacto Bitcoin analyst — Steven Englander basically asks: What's the point of Bitcoin now? Many of his comments echo our take in the week leading up to Gox's shutdown about how huge a setback this was not only for mainstream Bitcoin adoption, but also for the central tenets that got Bitcoin off the ground in the first place. Englander first argues that Bitcoin may now be too decentralized. That, of course, strikes at the promise of Bitcoin as a democratic, unregulated technology. But for Englander, the technical glitch that hit not only Gox but other exchanges "seems to have been known for years without the Bitcoin developers instituting a complete fix," he writes. "So one question is whether the decentralized structure, which is the attraction to many, makes it too cumbersome to enact essential fixes." Plus, as we wrote, the hacks also belie the notion that Bitcoin was immune to security issues. "Bitcoin transactions [were] thought to be impregnable and turned out not to be," said Englander. "Earlier security questions had centered around everything except the possibility that there might be a fraudulent transactions record. The imperviousness to fraud was one the big attractions of Bitcoin and the surprise exploitation of a known defect is a setback. Now it looks like just another payments system that has to worry about fraud." So this leaves three risks to Bitcoin, which we'll summarize: There is no sign yet that that bullet final is imminent. But we are aware that certain banks have shown outsized interest. He concludes: "Bitcoin's market cap on paper by far exceeds that of the competition and that are many Bitcoin holders heavily invested in Bitcoin, so it has a first mover advantage. However as a store of value, its only value is reputational, and recent developments have shaken that reputation." Bitcoin prices were at $557 as of 10 a.m. according to Coindesk. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Steve MarcusForbes magazine has just released "The 25 Highest-Earning Hedge Fund Managers And Traders" list and Steven Cohen came in No. 3. According to Forbes reporter Nathan Vardi, Cohen made an estimated $2.3 billion last year while his hedge fund was hit with redemptions and had to plead guilty to insider trading charges and pay a massive fine.  In terms of performance, SAC Capital had a solid year in 2013. The fund posted returns of 19 percent, but still trailed the S&amp;P, the report said.  As for headlines, it was a rough year, though. SAC, the once $14 billion hedge fund was criminally indicted on insider trading charges last summer. In November, SAC pleaded guilty and agreed to pay a $1.8 billion fine.  As part of the settlement, SAC will no longer manage outside money. Instead, SAC will operate as a family office hedge fund managing about $9 billion of Cohen's personal fortune and money from its employees. Since August 2009, U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara has successfully convicted 79 people, including a handful of SAC Capital alums, on insider trading charges. The most recent former SAC traders to plead guilty are Michael Steinberg and Mathew Martoma. It's widely believed that Cohen is the ultimate target in the government's crackdown on insider trading. However, they haven't been able to accuse him of any wrongdoing. They may never be able to do that.  FREE AppDownload
AP PhotoNew home sales unexpectedly surged 9.6% month-0ver-month to an annualized pace of 468,000. This was better than expectations  for a 3.4% fall to an annualized pace of 400,000. December's reading was revised up to reflect a 3.8% fall to 427,000. This compares to an initial print of a 7% fall to 414,000 in December. The median sales price of new houses sold in January 2014 was $260,100. Inventory of new home sales was 184,000, which represents a 4.7 months supply at the current sales rate. Housing starts have fallen and the extreme cold has been weighing on housing data. But homebuilder confidence also tanked in February and this was in part attributed to a shortage of labor and lots. Bloomberg economist Michael McDonough tweeted this chart that shows that new home sales have ticked up everywhere but the Midwest: Michael McDonough/Bloomberg FREE AppDownload
Billionaire investor Carl Icahn sent another open shareholder letter slamming eBay.  Icahn, who owns a 0.82% stake in eBay,  has been demanding that eBay spinoff PayPal into a separate company.  The activist investor sent a letter earlier this week shredding the company's board and calling out board members Marc Andreesen and Scott Cook individually. He's going after them again in the newest letter writing that they are "value-driven for themselves."  Here's his newest letter:  In our February 24, 2014 letter to eBay stockholders,(1) we raised what we consider to be serious and direct questions regarding corporate governance at eBay, with particular focus on the conduct of CEO John Donahoe and directors Marc Andreessen and Scott Cook. In its reply to our letter, eBay seeks to simply cast aside these matters as “cherry picked old news clips”(2) and informs us that Mr. Andreessen and Mr. Cook are “two of the most respected, accomplished and value-driven technology leaders in Silicon Valley.”(2)  There is no question that they are accomplished and value-driven, but we believe the primary problem, among other things, is that they appear to be value-driven for themselves, personally profiting while costing eBay stockholders at least $4 billion. Message to the eBay Board:  Corporate Governance Failures Do Not Have A Shelf-Life.  The simple and, to us, disturbing fact is that eBay sold a controlling stake in Skype to a sitting board member (Mr. Andreessen) and Silver Lake, for about $1.9 billion.  A mere 18 months later, that board member sold Skype to Microsoft for $8.5 billion,(4) thereby netting a $4 billion gain for himself and Silver Lake that should have accrued to eBay stockholders.  Whether this occurred 2, 5 or 10 years ago is irrelevant, especially when that board member is still on the board!  The phenomenal payday for Mr. Andreessen and Silver Lake raises serious red flags.  It is therefore particularly galling that management continues to hold this transaction out as an example of the board acting “objectively.”(5)  Further, from where we sit, the fact that a similar set of circumstances happened again in the case of Mr. Andreessen’s investment in Kynetic, which netted $150 million in paper profits for Mr. Andreessen,(6,7,8) shows a troubling pattern at eBay. Why is Mr. Cook still on the board of eBay?  In our letter we questioned whether Mr. Cook should remain on the eBay board since Intuit (a company in which Mr. Cook owns nearly $1 billion in stock) and PayPal are fierce competitors.  eBay replied that the overlap between Intuit and PayPal is small and disclosed, but this response misses what matters most, which is that both company’s share the same long-term common strategic goal to build strong payment processing businesses.  eBay’s recent $800 million acquisition of Braintree(6) highlights the company’s commitment to credit card “processing”, an area in which Intuit is a direct competitor.  “PayPal Here”, an identical product to Intuit’s “GoPayment”, was released to significant fanfare in the marketplace.(7,8)  These products compete directly.  Is it good for PayPal to have a competitor in the board room gaining insights into its operations, product pipeline and proprietary technologies?  We believe that Mr. Cook’s participation in strategic discussions on both sides of the table will continue to present challenges for eBay and will eventually, if it has not happened already, become a major strategic disadvantage for eBay. Stockholders:  Please ask yourself: If you ran your own company, would you ever allow your competitors to sit at the table as you planned and executed your business strategy?  We believe the obvious answer is NO! We believe corporate governance at eBay is dysfunctional.  Let’s end this charade.  We hope you will VOTE FOR OUR SLATE OF DIRECTORS and afford us the opportunity to represent and serve ALL eBay stockholders as members of the eBay Board.   We also urge you to vote in favor of our precatory proposal in order to send a clear message to the eBay Board that eBay and PayPal must be separated – NOW. IN THE COMING WEEKS WE WILL LAY OUT THE FULL DETAILED BUSINESS CASE TO SUPPORT THIS SEPARATION, WHICH HAS ALREADY RECEIVED STRONG SUPPORT BY KNOWLEDGEABLE AND AUTHORITATIVE INDUSTRY COMMENTATORS.  WE APPRECIATE ALL OF THE SUPPORT WE HAVE RECEIVED FROM OUR FELLOW STOCKHOLDERS AS WE COLLECTIVELY STAND UP TO MR. DONAHOE AND THIS BOARD. Sincerely,   Carl C. Icahn FREE AppDownload
RBC Capital Markets analysts David Palmer and Christopher Carril highlighted the following slide in a recent equity research report.   The diagram comes from General Mills' presentation at the Consumer Analyst Group of New York (CAGNY) conference. It shows how Americans spent $500 billion in the grocery store and which areas of the store they spent their money.  According to the chart, Americans spend most of their grocery dollars in the center of the store where packaged food items are located.   "Sales on the perimeter of the store grew the fastest last year, but consumers spend the vast majority of their food dollars in the center of the store," General Mills said at the conference, according to RBC.  General Mills FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTurkey's Prime Minister Tayyip Erdogan addresses members of parliament from his ruling AK Party during a meeting at the Turkish parliament in AnkaraISTANBUL/ANKARA (Reuters) - Turks in the conservative Istanbul district where Tayyip Erdogan grew up stood defiantly by their prime minister on Wednesday in the face of a voice recording purportedly of him warning his son to hide large sums of money. The mood contrasted sharply with one of outrage in areas where Erdogan enjoys less support, illustrating the deepening polarization of a country which his AK Party has ruled since 2002, presiding over a decade of growing prosperity. Opposition politicians called on Erdogan to resign over the audio tape but he has stood firm, accusing enemies of hacking encrypted state communications to fake a phone call at the time of police raids into a graft inquiry. "I think this investigation is an effort to remove Erdogan from power by enemies of Turkey. He has made our country stronger, richer, with a say in the world," said clothing shop owner Belguzar Ekmen, 33, who thinks the recordings are fake. "I can't say whether there has been corruption but I can measure how much our lives have improved, in terms of healthcare, education, transportation," he said in the working class Kasimpasa district on Istanbul's Golden Horn waterway. In the years before Erdogan came to power, Turkey was plagued by chronic high inflation and economic crises under unstable coalition governments. The recording, which triggered furious mutual recriminations between political parties in parliament on Tuesday, dominated media coverage which reflected the deep divisions between the pro- and anti-Erdogan camps. "A shameless montage", said headlines in the pro-government Yeni Safak and Sabah newspapers, echoing Erdogan's condemnation of recordings which he made clear he blamed on a network run by a former ally, Islamic cleric Fethullah Gulen. "The recording which is shaking Turkey", said a headline in the liberal Radikal daily. "Flee or resign", said the secularist Cumhuriyet, quoting the main opposition leader. The recording purports to be of Erdogan and his son Bilal discussing how to reduce funds at home to "zero" by distributing them among several businessmen. At one point, the voice supposedly of Bilal says some 30 million euros ($40 million) still remained to be disposed of. The left-wing BirGun daily printed a transcript of the five recordings over its entire front page without naming Erdogan or Bilal, describing them as a "father" and "son". "We have never been so corrupt, so rotten. Can you imagine? The prime minister and his family have so much money they don't know where to put it," said company manager Elif, 32, smoking outside a cafe in an upmarket Ankara district. "I believe the tapes are true. I have always thought that he was stealing," said Hasan Demir, 37, an Ankara cab driver. "But I know people will vote for him again. They distribute coal, rice to poor people. Who can say no to that?" POPULARITY HOLDING UP Opinion polls conducted before the recordings surfaced indicate Erdogan's popularity has held up despite the corruption scandal that broke on December 17 with the detention of businessmen close to him and three ministers' sons. Support for Erdogan is robust in Kasimpasa, with giant posters bearing his image plastered over facades of buildings. At Erdinc Guner's barber shop a small group of men, smoking and drinking tea between haircuts and shaves, all back the AKP. "He has made up for any corruption with what he has done in services for the people," said Guner, 27. "This country has known far worse in the past. Besides, who else is there to vote for? The AKP's greatest advantage is the sorry state of the opposition." But the latest recordings may provide a stiffer test of how his support is maintained ahead of March 30 local elections. Rising political tension has hit Turkish financial markets, but the lira and shares were firmer on Wednesday. The recording have also triggered street protests, but on a much smaller scale than anti-government demonstrations last summer. Erdogan accuses Gulen of building a "parallel state" using influence in the judiciary and police and has hit back at the corruption probe by reassigning thousands of police officers and hundreds of judges and prosecutors. He has also pushed through parliament laws tightening control of the judiciary and Internet. The assembly approved adjustments to the Internet law overnight, addressing President Abdullah Gul's concerns about the tighter restrictions. On Wednesday, Gul approved the judiciary law, deferring to the Constitutional Court on some elements in the legislation which the main opposition CHP has vowed to challenge in the court. Gulen, through his lawyer, has described the accusation of complicity in the tapes as unjust and contributing to an atmosphere of "hatred and enmity" in Turkish society. "The sad truth is that we have become nation of warring tribes with very little common narrative, value or reason left," political commentator Mustafa Akyol wrote in the Hurriyet Daily News daily. "And the mother of all political bombs - at least among what has come out so far - will only deepen our cleavages." (Writing by Daren Butler; Editing by Alison Williams) FREE AppDownload
ReutersChina's economy is slowing.  Meanwhile, rising local government debt and the ballooning shadow banking sector has experts worried that a sincere effort to deleverage could trigger a hard economic landing. People that are bullish on China often say that Beijing is in control of the slowdown. This argument has been applied to policymakers' handling China's so-called "ghost cities," property price bubble, and mini-credit crunches in December and in June of last year. However, it is unclear just how much control policymakers actually have over the problems popping up across the Chinese economy. "I'm worried that Chinese leaders actually believe it when they say everything is under control," said Patrick Chovanec, chief strategist at Silvercrest Asset Management. "The clock is fast running out on China's tactic of using runaway credit to fuel investment-led growth." "At best China faces a growth squeeze from a mounting burden of bad debt, at worse that bad debt will blow up in its face. Either way, China faces a wrenching economic adjustment. If China's leaders recognize not just the direction but also the urgency of change, they have some hope of getting to the other side. If they kid themselves into complacency, they are courting disaster." China's upcoming National People's Congress will give us more details on what policymakers are most focused on. FREE AppDownload
REUTERSDave Lutz of Stifel Nicolaus passes along what he's chattering about this morning. Good Morning! US Futures are higher, but struggling to stay upside of 1850 early. EU Markets are all in the red, led by a 30bp drop in Germany on heavier than average volume. FT notes “given that the S&amp;P in the last two sessions has failed to hold initial gains above 1,850, it seems that European equity traders are a bit reluctant to adopt an overly bullish stance.”  There is some stability in EM, with Ukraine’s CDS continuing to come off, despite their hryvnia having another record low against $ – but watch South Africa as they slash GDP forecasts, causing their debt to get hit. Brazil should remain on your screens into their interest rate announcement tonight after the US close. In Asia, the Nikksi lost 50bp, but Japan’s TOPIX closes above 50dma, a first in a month. China managed a bounce, despite Bloomberg headlines saying Credit Stress metrics are triggering alarm bells. Aussie was flat, but globally Materials stocks remain under pressure, with Aussie Miners off almost 1.5%. Banks remain in firmly in the red as well – still reeling from a top republican’s tax assult on them, and the BDC sector getting booted from S&amp;P indicies. The Street likes LOW’s numbers, bidding the stock up 5%.  ARO is adding 5% as the company puts itself up for sale – and TSLA is adding another 3%. On the downside, watch the Solars, as FSLR is off 14% on earnings.  The 10YY is slightly higher, but remains entrenched under the 100dma. The Yen has been breaking down against the $ overnight, boosting the DXY and causing a slight headwind for commodities. Metals are mixed, with industrial metals up small as copper bounces off a 3week low, but Gold is coming off 30bp from 4M highs despite headlines Gold ETFs could see their first full month of net inflows in over a year. Natty is off another 5% into expiration - Natural Gas Poised for Biggest Three-Day Loss Since 2007 – the March Contract rolls to April Today. The Oil complex is up small into DOE data today – constant focus on the Cushing Inventory draw on pipeline fills. Stay attuned to the oil-by-rail trade, as headline hit late session yesterday about emergency rules requiring extensive tests on crude oil moving by rail, and a U.S. House subcommittee is expected to meet on Wednesday to discuss passenger and freight rail safety.  Scheduled Catalysts today include New Home Sales for January and the Q4 FDIC bank earnings report at 10, DOE Data for Crude at 10:30, the week’s smallest POMO at 11, Fed's Rosengren Speaks at Noon, an Auction of $13B in 2Y Floaters, and $35B in 5Y Notes at 1pm. Tonight after the bell, we get Short Interest data, a Brazil Rate Announcement, and Fed's Pianalto Speaks on his career. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia Commons100 hryvniaSIMFEROPOL, Ukraine/KIEV (Reuters) - - President Vladimir Putin put Russian combat troops on high alert for a drill on Wednesday, the Kremlin's most powerful gesture yet after days of sabre rattling since its ally Viktor Yanukovich was toppled as president of Ukraine. Thousands of ethnic Russians, who form the majority in Ukraine's Crimea region, demonstrated for independence for the peninsula that hosts part of Moscow's Black Sea Fleet. They scuffled with rival demonstrators, mainly from the Tatar minority, who support the new authorities in Kiev. With the political turmoil hammering Ukraine's economy, the hryvnia currency tumbled 4 percent on Wednesday, with ripples spreading to Russia where the rouble fell to five-year lows and bank shares took a hit. Ukraine's central bank, which has been rapidly burning its hard currency reserves to protect the hryvnia, said it has abandoned a managed exchange rate policy in favor of a flexible currency, a senior official told CNBC TV. Moscow also denounced what it described as the rise of "nationalist and neo-fascist sentiment" in the country's mainly Ukrainian-speaking western areas, where it said Russian speakers were being deprived of rights. It has repeatedly expressed concern for the safety of Russian citizens in Ukraine. "In accordance with an order from the president of the Russian Federation, forces of the Western Military District were put on alert at 1400 (0500 ET) today," Interfax news agency quoted Russian Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu as saying. Since Yanukovich's downfall on Saturday, all eyes have been on Putin, who ordered an invasion of neighboring Georgia in 2008 to protect two self-declared independent regions with many ethnic Russians, which he then recognized as independent states. Any military action in Ukraine, a country of 46 million people that has close ties with European powers and the United States, would be far more serious - arguably the closest the West and Russia have come to outright confrontation since the Cold War. NEW CABINET Ukraine's new leadership plans to name its new cabinet on Wednesday, paving the way for urgent IMF talks to stave off financial meltdown now that Russia is all but certain to cut a $15 billion financial lifeline it offered Yanukovich as the prize for turning his back on ties with the EU in November. The International Monetary Fund has said it is prepared to send a team of negotiators to Kiev, but a government must first be formed there and request the aid. U.S. Deputy Secretary of State William Burns, visiting Kiev, said American financial experts were already in the country looking for ways to help. Yanukovich fled his luxurious palace on the outskirts of Kiev on Friday night after days of violence in which scores of his countrymen were killed, including demonstrators shot dead by police snipers from rooftops. His downfall, three months after he abruptly turned his back on a free trade pact with the European Union to seek closer ties with Russia, has infuriated Moscow, which describes the new authorities as extremists who seized power through force with the aid of Western powers. Ukraine has suffered an identity crisis throughout two decades of independence from the Soviet Union. With borders drawn by Bolshevik commissars, it is split between a largely Ukrainian-speaking west, including areas annexed by the Soviets from Austria and Poland, and eastern provinces where Russian is spoken, mainly Russian territory since the middle ages. In the Crimean regional capital Simferopol, pro-Russian crowds, some of them cossacks in silk and lambswool hats, shouted "Crimea is Russian!". Mainly ethnic Tatar demonstrators backing the new authorities rallied under a pale blue flag shouting "Ukraine! Ukraine!" The regional parliament was due to debate the crisis later on Wednesday. Crimea was administered as part of Russia within the Soviet Union until 1954 when it was attached to Soviet Ukraine, and has seen separatist flareups during previous disagreements between Moscow and Kiev. However, even in Yanukovich's eastern home region of Donetsk, there was little sign of support for the fugitive leader. His portrait had been taken down at the Donetsk headquarters of Yanukovich's Party of the Regions, where its leader in the provincial parliament Nikolay Zagoruyko said Yanukovich was to blame for the killings while he was president. "Of course he is guilty," he said without hesitation. "He was the president. The guilt for what happened lies with Yanukovich." CURRENCY DIVE The new authorities must salvage the economy of a country near bankruptcy and heavily dependent on Russian gas. Traders in Kiev said the central bank was absent from the hryvnia market, allowing the national currency to fall to below 10 to the dollar, a fresh record low. Sergiy Kruglyk, the central bank's international relations director, said Kiev was adopting a new exchange rate policy - a major demand of the IMF. "We've transferred from a fixed, so-called managed exchange rate to the flexible exchange rate," he said. Year-to-date losses for the once tightly controlled unit are almost 20 percent against the dollar, more than any other major emerging currency in 2014. The further the hryvnia falls, the more difficult it is for Kiev to repay its dollar debt. The cost of a contract to insure Ukraine's debt for five years rose to more than 10 percent per year on Wednesday, a figure than means traders believe a default is likelier to take place in that timeframe than not. Oleskander Turchinov, the parliament speaker who assumed the presidential duties after the assembly removed Yanukovich from power on Saturday, took the helm of the armed forces on Wednesday. He is expected to pick a cabinet that will be announced late on Wednesday to crowds in Independence Square, the crucible of the revolt. Turchinov is an ally of opposition leader Yulia Tymoshenko, who was freed from jail moments before parliament voted to remove Yanukovich. Tymoshenko, herself a former prime minister, has said she is not interested in returning to the job, which could go to Arseny Yatsenyuk, an economist who ran her party while she was jailed. Retired heavyweight boxing champion Vitaly Klitschko, who has said he will run for president, may also be given a post. Ukrainians were shocked by the lavish palace that Yanukovich abandoned, which was stocked with a private zoo of rare animals and exotic birds, a floating restaurant built like a pirate ship and a private golf course on land half the size of Monaco. Yanukovich's precise whereabouts are not known, although the government says it believes he is hiding in Crimea. Parliament has voted to request he be tried at the International Criminal Court in the Hague over the deaths on the square. On Wednesday the new authorities disbanded the Berkut "Golden Eagle" riot police units blamed by the public for posting sharpshooters on rooftops who killed protesters. The U.S. Treasury warned banks to be on the look-out for potentially suspicious transfers of assets by Yanukovich or members of his circle. Ukraine's Soviet-era industry depends on cheap imports of Russian natural gas. It said on Wednesday it had reduced purchases in February, in part because of a mild winter. (Additional reporting by Gabriela Baczynska in Donetsk and Steve Gutterman in Moscow; Writing by Peter Graff; editing by David Stamp) FREE AppDownload
    The old world tradition of adding butter to coffee has recently re-emerged as a performance enhancer embraced by the likes of Bulletproof Executive founder Dave Asprey and holistic health guru Andrew Weil.  Weil asserts that the often demonized saturated fat poses no risk for increased heart disease and may actually help "stimulate the body's fat-burning potential" in addition to boosting creativity and productivity. Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis.  FREE AppDownload
The U.S. dollar has been confined to narrow ranges against the major currencies. The euro, yen, and sterling have traded well within yesterday's ranges. The dollar bloc was a bit heavier, but the Canadian dollar has fully recovered and the Aussie, nearly so, after disappointing, but dated, Q4 construction figures (-1.0% vs. +0.7% consensus). One of the dominant issues — the weakness of the Chinese yuan — continues, albeit at a somewhat slower pace. The yuan has weakened now for seven consecutive sessions. It was the fifth consecutive session that the PBoC set the dollar's reference rate (fix) higher. Key money market rates (7-day repo rate) fell 12 basis points to just below 3.10%, its lowest level since last May. There is some speculation that the PBoC is buying dollars and selling yuan. Yesterday, figures released by the PBoC suggested that Chinese banks bought a record $73 billion of foreign currency in the onshore market in January, reflecting clients' demand for yuan. This represented a marked acceleration from even the heady pace seen in the second half of  2013 (when PBoC reserves jumped by nearly $500 billion). The Wall Street Journal reports that some of this money was invested in "target redemption forwards," which in essence reward, as in pay out monthly, for yuan appreciation, but punish severely for yuan weakness. The proximate key level to begin triggering some of these losses may be around CNY 6.15 (CNY 6.120-6.134 today). The decline in money market rates and the first decline in 10-year yields in six sessions helped calm nerves and the Shanghai Composite rose 0.35% (though financials slipped), snapping a four-day decline. The PBoC helped by playing down the significance of the price action, suggesting it was primarily a reflection of market forces and it should not be over-interpreted. It appears that the most common interpretation of the CNY developments is that the PBoC is introducing two-way risk as a prelude to widening the 1% band against the dollar. While this is possible, we note that in past two times the band was widened, it was not preceded by such a tactic. As we have seen with money market squeezes, Chinese officials seem more interested in teach lessons than changing policy. In Europe, where new economic developments are light, official statements loom large. First, the German Constitutional Court ruled, in a 5-3 vote, that the 3% threshold for German parties to enter the E.U. parliament (election in May) is unconstitutional. Previously, it had ruled that a 5% threshold was unconstitutional and the Bundestag lowered it to 3%. Today's decision increases the likelihood that the AfD, and maybe even the Pirate Party, is represented in the E.U. parliament. If anything, we suspect it is more likely to take votes away from the CDU than the SPD. We note that a threshold for representation in the German parliament is constitutional because it has been argued, it is necessary for the functioning of parliament. When the Bundestag lowered the threshold it justified it move in similar terms: otherwise, parliament is fragmented. The German Constitutional Court ruling today, in the context of the recent doubts raised over OMT (before seeking a preliminary judgment from the European Court of Justice),  is cast in a particularly anti-Europe light. The second European official comment to note is ECB's Nowotny from Austria. As speculation mounts ahead of next week's ECB meeting, talk of a rate cut has increased, even if not seen in the euro itself.  There is some speculation that the ECB, which says it is technically prepared and all options are on the table, will cut the deposit rate, which is now at zero. Nowotny's comments, which we suspect are representative of broader opinion among the central bankers, showed a reluctance to push the deposit rate negative. He cited psychological reasons. We argue that a small 10-15 basis point cut in the refi rate is symbolic and that a cut in the 75 basis point lending rate would be more effective in capping EONIA and reducing its volatility. We have long favored measured that boost the securitization market to encourage lending to SME and households. The negative deposit rate and QE itself, we continue to regard as extreme measures that have a high hurdle for that is not being met. The euro remains in narrow ranges and even news that the second German bond auction in two weeks saw weak demand, forcing the BBK to retain a higher percentage. Today it was a 30-yar bond and the BBK retained 18.7%, the highest since July 2012. Total bids for 2.794 bln euros while Germany wanted to raise 3 bln euros. It was the first uncovered 30-year bund auction since April 2012 and was sloppy in the sense of a large tail (about three times larger than recent average). We note that 3-month implied euro vol  is just below 6.50%, which is a little above multi-year low set last week below 6.4%. One week implied vol is near 5.7%, which is still one percentage point above 6-year lows seen in late December 2013. The North American calendar is light. The main U.S. economic report is January new home sales. The market is looking for a 3.4% decline on top of the 7.0% fall in December and 3.9% decline in November. It corrects from the nearly 15% rise in October. Most of the U.S. data continues to be reported worse than expectations, which means that economists have not sufficiently appreciating the slowdown (whatever the causes). When this reverses, it will be an important signal to investors. Two Fed presidents speak. Rosengren is a non-voting dove and Pianalto is a voting member of the FOMC. She is also seen more allied with the dovish wing, which at present wants to continue with measured tapering. Late today, Brazil's central bank is expected to hike the overnight rate (Selic) 25 bp to 10.75%. Read more posts on Marc to Market » FREE AppDownload
Ed Yardeni FREE AppDownload
Jay Yarow/Business InsiderComputers operated by the power of thought, wearable technology and advanced cancer treatments are among the top ten emerging technologies which will reshape the future, a new report claims. The World Economic Forum has compiled a list of the most potentially influential technologies currently being developed which also includes mining metals from the desalination of sea water and super-light cars made using carbon-fibre elements. Each innovation was selected for its capacity to have a real and positive impact on the world, according to the WEC’s Global Agenda Council on Emerging Technologies which made its selections with the help of leading figures from industry and academia. Topping the list is “brain-computer interfaces” which would build on the already available technology which allows people to type by monitoring their electrical activity in their brain. The technology could make it possible for people with disabilities to operate wheelchairs and other equipment using their thoughts, according to the council. In its report the council stated: “Technology has become perhaps the greatest agent of change in the modern world. While never without risk, positive technological breakthroughs promise innovative solutions to the most pressing global challenges of our time, from resource scarcity to global environmental change. “However, due to a lack of appropriate investment, outdated regulatory frameworks and gaps in public understanding, many promising technologies are constrained from achieving their potential.” According to the report there is hope for arid countries which see very little rainfall as the mining of metals from waste water or brine is making large-scale desalination financially viable for the first time, while the drive to cut carbon emissions could be boosted by cars built with carbon-fibre reinforced parts making them up to 40 per cent lighter and stronger than older models, offering huge energy savings. Cleaner energy will benefit from advances in grid-scale electricity storage which would allow surplus energy from fluctuating renewable sources such as sun and wind to be stored until it is needed while new batteries based on silicon could hold up to three times more power than existing products. New wearable electronics, which are already available in the form of the Google Glass and Fitbit wristband, could offer health benefits by tracking heart rates and stress levels while new cancer treatments are being by harnessing the power of microbes which occur naturally in the human body. Other medical research is focusing on drugs based on proteins which regulate human genes which could be used to fight cancer and infectious diseases. Noubar Afeyan, chair of the Global Agenda Council on Emerging Technologies and CEO of Flagship Ventures, said: “These breakthroughs show the boundless potential for technology to have a positive impact on society, from finding cleaner energy to new cures for disease. “For these gains to be realized, we need the right regulatory frameworks, strategic alliances among innovators and market leaders, investment capital, as well as greater public awareness.” The council wants to see governments working with researchers and businesses to promote the emerging technologies which could bring great improvements to many people’s lives. Martina Larkin, senior director and head of the Network of Global Agenda Councils, said: “2014 will be a crucial year for these technologies. Close cooperation between governments, industry and academia is essential to harness their potential.” The full list of the top ten emerging technologies: Brain-computer interfaces: It is already possible to type just by monitoring the electrical activity of your brain, but as the technology advances, it could be possible for people with disabilities to operate wheelchairs using only their thoughts. Mining metals from desalination brine: Large-scale desalination is becoming economically feasible for the first time because of new chemical processes that enable the mining of metals from waste water, or brine. Nanostructured carbon composites: Cars made from carbon-fibre reinforced composites are as much as 40% lighter than older models, stronger, and more easy to recycle, offering the prospect for huge energy savings. Grid-scale electricity storage: A fundamental breakthrough is close that would allow the saving of surplus energy from fluctuating renewable sources such as sun and wind within the electricity grid. Body-adapted wearable electronics: Whether worn on the body, embedded in clothes or even under the skin, these devices can track information, such as heart rate and stress levels, giving people real-time feedback about their health. Nanowire lithium-ion batteries: New batteries based on silicon – using tiny silicon nanowires – could have a longer life, charge more quickly and hold up to three times the power of existing batteries. Screenless display: A 3D image projected into space – a “screenless display” – can convey information that a 2D image presented on a screen cannot, and is close to becoming a practical reality. Human microbiome therapeutics: Drawing on knowledge gained from the Human Microbiome Project in 2012 and other research, human microbiome technology is increasingly seen as an important source of treatment for serious diseases as well as for improving health. RNA-based therapeutics: RNA, like DNA, plays a part in protein synthesis and, to a lesser extent, the transmission of genetic information. Scientific advances are combining to enable a new generation of targeted, RNA-based drugs that could help find new treatments for cancer and infectious diseases Quantified self (predictive analytics): RNA, like DNA, plays a part in protein synthesis and, to a lesser extent, the transmission of genetic information. Scientific advances are combining to enable a new generation of targeted, RNA-based drugs that could help find new treatments for cancer and infectious diseases  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Yannis BehrakisA man salutes during a memorial ceremony for those killed in recent violence in KievGood morning! Here's what you need to know. A Senate report blasts Credit Suisse for helping to assist tax evasion. The new report details how, in 2006, Credit Suisse maintained 22,000 accounts for U.S. customers worth $13.5 billion. More than 1,800 bankers "advised wealthy clients to travel to Switzerland to avoid creating a paper trail that would undermine their accounts' secrecy," the Wall Street Journal reports. In one of the more unconventional banking tactics, a Credit Suisse banker handed a client statements concealed in an issue of Sports Illustrated, the report said. Natural gas collapses. Nat gas is down 18.5% in two sessions. "As the more medium-to-long term picture of an oversupplied market is still intact, it shouldn't be entirely surprising that a sharp and volatile giveback has manifested out of a near doubling of prices since early November 2013," TD Securities' Mark Dragosits wrote in a note. More trouble for MtGox. The Wall Street Journal's Christopher M. Matthews reports that prosecutors in the U.S. sent the subpoena this month. After weeks of issues, MtGox shut trading operations over "recent news reports and the potential repercussions on MtGox's operations and the market, the company said.  Reuters reported that Japanese investigators are also looking into the Tokyo-based exchange. But MtGox had to die for Bitcoin to live. There's actually a sense of relief in the Bitcoin community about the fall of MtGox, our Rob Wile reports: "MtGox has been regarded for nearly a year as something of a basket case in the Bitcoin community, with complaints from customers about lengthy delays in taking money and bitcoin out of their wallets, and a general lack of responsiveness." Bitcoin supporter and investor Marc Andreessen compared MtGox's troubles to MF Global's collapse — bad for customers but not a systemic to the Bitcoin system at large. And Bitcoin is actually back on the rise after the MtGox dust-up.  The Chinese yuan gets crushed. The currency continued its losing streak yesterday, hitting 6.1259 yuan for a dollar. UBS' Tao Wang said that "the era of steady CNY appreciation may be drawing to a close," and that this "is likely government-guided and may signal a change in China's exchange rate policy." New home sales data out at 10:00 a.m. Economists estimate that new home sales dropped 3.4% to an annualized rate of 400,000 in January. "Mortgage applications for purchase have declined in four of the past five weeks and builder sentiment plunged to its lowest level since mid-2013," Wells Fargo's John Silvia wrote clients. "Although the weakness was broad-based, current sales saw the steepest decline, plummeting 11 points to 51. Builders noted the drop was due to unusually severe weather conditions, but also cited a shortage in skilled labor and lots. Although weather conditions are expected to be a temporary drag on construction activity, rising construction costs, including a dearth of skilled workers could slow the pace of the housing market recovery." First Solar plummets after earnings. Shares were down 14% after the company reported a Q4 earnings and revenue miss and warned of lower profits in Q1. Earnings came in at $0.89 per share, lower than the $1.03 expected, while revenue was $768 million versus the $969.4 million consensus estimate. Markets were quiet in overnight trading. Japan's Nikkei dropped 0.54% while Shanghai gained 0.35%. European markets were lower and U.S. futures pointed to a positive open. J.Crew eyes an IPO. The retailer is interviewing banks as it considers an IPO for later this year, Bloomberg's Jodi Xu, Leslie Picker and David Welch report. The chain has 451 stores and $2.4 billion in annual sales, which may land it a value of as much as $5 billion, a source told Bloomberg. The U.S. Treasury warns about ousted Ukranian President Viktor Yanukovich. U.S. financial institutions "should be aware of the possible impact that public reports of high-level corruption by senior members of the Yanukovich administration and other illicit activity by members of the administration may have on patterns of financial activity," an advisory from the Treasury said. Yanukovich is on the run. His reign was toppled by violent demonstrations in Kiev, where police snipers killed protestors. FREE AppDownload
Shutterstock.comNEW YORK (Reuters) - Applications for U.S. home mortgages fell, including both new purchases and refinancings, in the latest week, an industry group said on Wednesday. The Mortgage Bankers Association said its seasonally adjusted index of mortgage application activity, which includes both refinancing and home purchase demand, fell 8.5 percent to 348.5 in the week ended February 21. The data come a day after a closely-watched housing survey showed U.S. home price gains slowed in December, underscoring a loss of momentum in the housing recovery. The MBA index hit its lowest level since December 2000 at the end of last year, soon after the U.S. Federal Reserve announced it would start reducing its $85 billion per month bond-buying program as the economy grows strong enough to stand on its own. The interest rate on fixed 30-year mortgages averaged 4.53 percent last week, up 3 basis points from the previous week and at the highest since the week ending January 17. The MBA's seasonally adjusted index of refinancing applications fell 11.4 percent. The gauge of loan requests for home purchases, a leading indicator of home sales, fell 3.5 percent. The survey covers over 75 percent of U.S. retail residential mortgage applications, according to MBA. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Toru HanaiA protestor outside the MtGox office in Japan.Bitcoin exchange Mt. Gox continues its shut down, and management continues to provide only limited amounts of information regarding the status of operations. This has been troubling to Mt. Gox clients, whose Bitcoins are in limbo. Mt. Gox CEO Mark Karpeles just published this brief statement on the site (via Katie Martin): Dear MtGox Customers, As there is a lot of speculation regarding MtGox and its future, I would like to use this opportunity to reassure everyone that I am still in Japan, and working very hard with the support of different parties to find a solution to our recent issues. Furthermore I would like to kindly ask that people refrain from asking questions to our staff: they have been instructed not to give any response or information. Please visit this page for further announcements and updates. Sincerely, Mark Karpeles  The Wall Street Journal reported Tuesday that MtGox has been subpoenaed by the U.S. Attorney's office in New York, while Reuters reported that Japanese authorities are also investigating the exchange. FREE AppDownload
William Wei, Business InsiderJapan's Panasonic and California-based electric-vehicle venture Tesla Motors are in talks to build a $1 billion automotive battery plant in the United States, a report said Wednesday. The electronic giant is inviting several other Japanese materials makers to join the project, with the aim of lowering manufacturing costs of the lithium-ion batteries used in electric vehicles, the respected Nikkei daily said, without citing sources. Batteries currently represent a big chunk of the final cost of an electric car, and slashing prices is key to making the technology more acceptable to consumers. The new facility, expected to handle everything from processing raw materials to assembly, is intended to go on stream in 2017 and to produce small, lightweight batteries for Tesla and possibly for Toyota Motor and other automakers, the Nikkei said. Tesla wants to bring electric vehicles down into the same price range as their gasoline-burning cousins, while also planning to make home-use batteries for grid storage, it said. Panasonic has worked with Tesla on developing next-generation auto batteries and last year expanded the contract to supply lithium-ion units to the firm to about two billion cells until 2017. Contacted by AFP, Panasonic said it is "studying every possible way to strengthen ties with Tesla", without confirming the report. Panasonic shares jumped more than 5 percent in Tokyo morning trade. But analysts expressed caution on the reported project. "The story is just a talking point," Advanced Research Japan analyst David Rubenstein told Dow Jones Newswires. "Panasonic's margins on its battery business are razor-thin, so it's little more than wishful thinking that this kind of project, if true, would actually add meaningfully to its bottom line." Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
Steel, iron ore futures in China tanked on bloated (all-time high) inventories and apparent lending curbs by Chinese banks. It seems that banks and regulators have been spooked by falling industrial demand, lower prices, and speculative activities of commodity traders. Anecdotal evidence suggests that many commodity importers have been using their inventories as collateral to bet on the yuan appreciation against the dollar. In fact some have borrowed dollars converted them to yuan and held the money in "high yielding" accounts. Some simply used the forwards market to take advantage of the rate differential between the two currencies. As long as the government stuck to its policy of gradual appreciation, it was "free money".  Moreover, some traders supposedly used the same iron ore and steel inventory with multiple counterparties at the same time (equivalent to taking out multiple mortgages on the same house at once). With banks cutting back lending in this sector and the yuan actually declining recently, that gravy train has stopped. Traders are being forced to dump inventory. That is sending prices lower and even pressuring some mills to close. Lending curbs have also been extended to other sectors related to property development, such as cement. All this points to tighter credit, weaker demand, and slower industrial activity going forward. CME     FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Reed SaxonDavid Hall, co-founder of Professional Coin Grading Service, poses with some of 1,427 Gold-Rush era U.S. gold coins, at his office in Santa Ana, Calif., Tuesday, Feb. 25, 2014.LOS ANGELES (AP) — A Northern California couple out walking their dog on their property stumbled across a modern-day bonanza: $10 million in rare, mint-condition gold coins buried in the shadow of an old tree. Nearly all of the 1,427 coins, dating from 1847 to 1894, are in uncirculated, mint condition, said David Hall, co-founder of Professional Coin Grading Service of Santa Ana, which recently authenticated them. Although the face value of the gold pieces only adds up to more than $28,000, some of them are so rare that coin experts say they could fetch nearly $1 million apiece. "I don't like to say once-in-a-lifetime for anything, but you don't get an opportunity to handle this kind of material, a treasure like this, ever," said veteran numismatist Don Kagin, who is representing the finders. "It's like they found the pot of gold at the end of the rainbow." Kagin, whose family has been in the rare-coin business for 81 years, would say little about the couple other than that they are husband and wife, are middle-aged and have lived for several years on the rural property in California's Gold Country, where the coins were found. They have no idea who put them there, he said. The pair are choosing to remain anonymous, Kagin said, in part to avoid a renewed gold rush to their property by modern-day prospectors armed with metal detectors. They also don't want to be treated any differently, said David McCarthy, chief numismatist for Kagin Inc. of Tiburon. "Their concern was this would change the way everyone else would look at them, and they're pretty happy with the lifestyle they have today," he said. They plan to put most of the coins up for sale through Amazon while holding onto a few keepsakes. They'll use the money to pay off bills and quietly donate to local charities, Kagin said. Before they sell them, they are loaning some to the American Numismatic Association for its National Money Show, which opens Thursday in Atlanta. What makes their find particularly valuable, McCarthy said, is that almost all of the coins are in near-perfect condition. That means that whoever put them into the ground likely socked them away as soon as they were put into circulation. Because paper money was illegal in California until the 1870s, he added, it's extremely rare to find any coins from before that of such high quality. "It wasn't really until the 1880s that you start seeing coins struck in California that were kept in real high grades of preservation," he said. The coins, in $5, $10 and $20 denominations, were stored more or less in chronological order in six cans, McCarthy said, with the 1840s and 1850s pieces going into one can until it was filed, then new coins going into the next one and the next one after that. The dates and the method indicated that whoever put them there was using the ground as their personal bank and that they weren't swooped up all at once in a robbery. Although most of the coins were minted in San Francisco, one $5 gold piece came from as far away as Georgia. Kagin and McCarthy would say little about the couple's property or its ownership history, other than it's located in Gold Country, a sprawling, picturesque and still lightly populated section of north-central California that stretches along the western slope of the Sierra Nevada. The discovery of gold at Sutter's Mill, about 50 miles northeast of Sacramento, set off the California Gold Rush of 1848. The coins had been buried by a path the couple had walked for years. On the day they found them last spring, the woman had bent over to examine an old rusty can that erosion had caused to pop slightly out of the ground. "Don't be above bending over to check on a rusty can," Kagin said she told him. They were located on a section of the property the couple nicknamed Saddle Ridge, and Kagin is calling the find the Saddle Ridge Hoard. He believes it could be the largest such discovery in U.S. history. One of the largest previous finds of gold coins was $1 million worth uncovered by construction workers in Jackson, Tenn., in 1985. More than 400,000 silver dollars were found in the home of a Reno, Nev., man who died in 1974 and were later sold intact for $7.3 million. Gold coins and ingots said to be worth as much as $130 million were recovered in the 1980s from the wreck of the SS Central America. But historians knew roughly where that gold was because the ship went down off the coast of North Carolina during a hurricane in 1857. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
Flickr/RednuhtRead this from BTIG's Dan Greenhaus (@danBTIG): Weather aside, while many are fixated on the collapse of nat gas (down 18.5% in two sessions) the rise in TSLA or the complete reversal in the CNY (getting ready for a wider trading band?), another development bears watching and that’s the rally in the retailers. The S&amp;P 500 is up roughly 6% since its 2014 low but specialty retailers? +8.3. The XRT ETF is up 8% since its low. Consumers -- and consumption -- have been a major worry for investors and as such, the reversal in these shares is something to watch as evidence investors are looking beyond near term concerns. Yep, these are the stories: Natural gas, Tesla, the Chinese yuan, and the stock market recovery. That's also interesting about specialty retailers as a sign of underlying optimism. FREE AppDownload
Beijing is going through another horrendous period of smog. The two photos below from from Instagram user Ahsup give some incredible perspective showing what it looks now compared to what it looks like on a clear day. The top is February 8. The bottom is two days ago.   FREE AppDownload
Japanese authorities were Wednesday probing the troubled MtGox bitcoin exchange after claims of a multi-million dollar theft from its digital vaults, as US prosecutors reportedly served a subpoena on the company. The moves came the day after the website of Tokyo-based MtGox went dark, possibly heralding huge losses for investors, and sending ripples of alarm throughout the global community of digital currency adopters. "I understand that ministries and agencies concerned -- financial services, police and the finance ministry -- are looking into the matter to learn the full scope of the issue," Japan's Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga, told reporters. "Once we have full knowledge of what happened, we will take action if necessary," he said. The comments, at a regular press conference, were the first government reaction to events at MtGox, which froze withdrawals earlier this month, claiming there was a bug in the software that underpins bitcoin, making it vulnerable to thieves. The value of the volatile unit plunged on the Tokyo exchange and was bobbling around $130 on Tuesday, around a quarter of what it was fetching on other platforms, until the site suddenly disappeared at lunchtime. Hours later, MtGox published a statement saying it had stopped all transactions "for the time being in order to protect the site and our users". A widely-shared document purporting to be a MtGox "crisis strategy" said the firm might have lost more than 744,400 bitcoins in a theft that had gone unnoticed for years. That number of bitcoins would be worth more than $400 million, using rates at functioning exchanges Wednesday afternoon, where the bitcoin was trading around $570. The figure would represent around five percent of all the bitcoins in existence. - US prosecutors file subpoena - The Wall Street Journal reported on its website that MtGox has been served with a subpoena by US federal prosecutors in New York. Citing an unnamed "person familiar with the matter" the paper said the document was sent this month and demanded that MtGox preserve certain documents. A subpoena compels its recipient to produce evidence or bear witness, on pain of legal punishment. The crypto-currency community rallied round in defence of bitcoin on Tuesday, blaming MtGox for problems which they said did not affect the integrity of the unit. But observers warned the apparent disappearance of hundreds of millions of dollars-worth of the currency could deal a blow to its legitimacy. Alarm bells began ringing after MtGox stopped processing external transactions on February 7, citing an underlying problem with the bitcoin coding. The value of the unit on MtGox dropped over the following weeks far below that on other working exchanges. The shutdown knocked around 15 percent off the world price for bitcoin, but it steadily recovered its losses and by Wednesday afternoon was trading around $560. In January a bitcoin was worth more than $900 at MtGox, one of the world's first exchanges for the unit. Wild volatility has long been a part of the experimental digital currency, which does not have the backing of a central bank or government and falls outside traditional financial regulatory frameworks. Proponents say the currency is an efficient and anonymous way to store and transfer monetary value, and to avoid the risks inherent in any currency dependent on the viability of a government for its value. But some economists have said the stomach-churning fluctuations in value -- which have made it the vehicle of choice for thrill-seeking investors over recent months -- makes it problematic, as does its apparent vulnerability to online thieves. Others note that the anonymity it offers is attractive to underworld figures and cite its use to buy drugs and guns on the underground Silk Road website. MtGox has not responded to repeated requests from AFP for comment. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
There's an interesting divergence right now. The news media is filled with BITCOIN IS DOOMED articles in the wake of the collapse of the exchange Mt. Gox. Meanwhile, the Bitcoin community is mostly saying: "Yeah, this is bad, but not devastating, and we'll be fine." And the market so far is much more on the side of the Bitcoin community. Here's a chart going back a couple of days. The entire Mt. Gox crash is basically totally erased. BitcoinWisdom FREE AppDownload
Stephanie Diani/UCLAGood morning! It's a quiet day in world markets. Not much volatility anywhere. Japan's Nikkei slipped 0.5% last night, while Shanghai gained 0.35%. US futures are slightly higher, while European stocks are a bit lower. Germany is off 0.16%. The UK is down 0.37%. In the US today we get the latest on New Home Sales. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
