Getty Images / KIRILL KUDRYAVTSEVA board lists foreign currency rates against the Russian ruble outside an exchange office in central Moscow on Tuesday. Even Russians working in the oil sector are rushing to trade their rubles in for dollars. A bank in Russia's Khanty-Mansiysk region — an area in Russia that produces approximately 51% of Russian oil — has completely run out of dollars and is almost out of euros, Interfax reports. The bank still has rubles. "Basically, what this means is that people who work in the oil industry [in Khanty-Mansiysk] just got all of their money out of the bank in dollars," a person familiar with the matter told Business Insider. Early Tuesday (late Monday ET), the Russian Central Bank raised rates to 17% from 10.5%. The bank's statement said the decision was driven by the need to limit significant devaluation in the ruble and inflation risks. In a sentence, it did not work. The Russian currency fell to new lows, reaching 80 rubles to the dollar and 100 rubles to the euro on Tuesday. It first opened 8% stronger after the central bank's rate hike.  And it's not just Russians in the oil industry who are panicking. Everyday Russians are trying to get as many dollars in their pockets as they can. Some are buying dollars, and others are just trying to withdraw from their accounts in dollars.BloombergUS dollar-ruble. "Right now, everyone [in Moscow] is trying to buy dollars, but you can't buy them just like that — you need to pre-order them," a person who requested to remain anonymous told Business Insider.  "It looks like no one is trusting the banks anymore," that person continued, "so everyone's just trying to get everything out." One woman said: "Honestly, I'm not trying to buy dollars, just trying to take out the money from my bank account in dollars — but even still, I have to do it by pre-order." Another woman added: "In the morning, I called and asked, whether or not there were dollars, asked whether or not there will be the needed sum, and they responded to me, yes. [...But when I went to the cashier...] the cashier told me that only by pre-order, and that he wasn't allowed to sell them." Additionally, Russians are finally starting to feel the financial squeeze from the ongoing economic problems. "I will easily say that I was robbed twice at least," one Moscow man told the Russian BBC in a street interview. "My parents' pensions are twice as low ... no one's going to increase my pay. So it turns out, I just became twice as poor." "Who is to blame?" he continued. "The government. The president. Where is stability? Where is this 'slave on the galley' — where did we just sail? In 15 years, we haven't established any stability?! One flutter in the markets, and that's it! Good-bye!" With the "slave on the galley" phrase, the Moscow man is referring to Russian President Vladimir Putin, who several years ago said he worked like a "slave on the galley." All in all, things aren't looking good in Russia. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Toru HanaiA businessman sits near a cargo area at a port in Tokyo.TOKYO (Reuters) - Japan's exports grew for a third straight month in November from a year earlier, but much more slowly than expected and despite a sharp fall in the yen as slowing demand in Asia and Europe dampened trade. The 4.9 percent rise in exports was much weaker than a 7.0 percent gain seen by economists in a Reuters poll, slowing from a 9.6 percent gain in October, Ministry of Finance data showed. Weakness in exports could compound April's sales tax rise which pushed the economy into a recessionary second quarter of contraction through September. "Exports to Asia and Europe were weak. Europe's slump caused by Russia warrants attention, but the slowdown in Asia-bound exports was probably a temporary reaction to October's big jump boosted by one-off factors such as exports of ships to Singapore," said Hiroshi Watanabe, senior economist at SMBC Nikko Securities. "I still expect shipments to remain firm as the U.S. economy continues to help spur output in Asia and Japan. That will be welcome to Japanese policymakers." The data followed the Bank of Japan's key tankan survey, which showed business confidence barely improved in the fourth quarter, suggesting a slow climb out of recession despite gains in share prices and a steep fall in the yen. [ID:nL3N0TT33Q] The yen &lt;jpy=&gt; stood at around 117 yen to the dollar on Wednesday, after it hit a 7-year low of more than 120 earlier this month, down about 10 percent since the BOJ's shock expansion of monetary stimulus on Oct. 31. The BOJ is expected to stand pat at a monetary policy meeting on Friday. Exports to the United States rose 6.8 percent in the year to November, while shipments to China rose just 0.9 percent, slowing sharply from an annual 7.2 percent gain in October. Exports to Asia, which account for more than half of Japanese shipments, grew 5.8 percent in the year to November, slowing from a 10.5 percent jump in the previous month. EU-bound exports fell 1.3 percent, the first fall in 18 months. Overall imports fell 1.7 percent in the year to November, versus economists' median estimate for a 1.7 percent gain, but still created a trade gap of 891.9 billion yen ($7.64 billion) to mark the 29th consecutive month of deficit. Export volume fell 1.7 percent in the year to November, the first annual drop in three months. Japanese shipments have struggled to pick up because companies haved moved much of their production overseas, limiting gains from a weak currency. ($1 = 116.8000 yen)   (Editing by Eric Meijer) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA customer uses an ATM machine at a Wells Fargo bank in Los AngelesBy Jed Horowitz (Reuters) - When the almost 11,000 financial advisers in Wells Fargo &amp; Co's  branch brokerage system get their 2015 compensation plan on Wednesday they may grimace at one change that could hit their pay, or cost their customers a little more. Wells is raising the minimum commission size on which it will allow brokers to be paid on a stock trade to $125 from $95, according to people familiar with the plan. Wells brokers, who receive 50 percent of most of the commissions they charge, risk customer backlash for the higher charge. A $30 rise in the so-called ticket charge may not sound egregious but transactions can quickly add up. For example, a broker closing out a $400,000 managed account portfolio of a deceased client or rebalancing positions could easily execute 50 transactions, costing an extra $1,500, said one of the sources. Brokers at Wells and other full-service firms still have leeway to offer discounts to selected clients from published rates, but all firms are putting constraints on behaviors that they say erode profitability. Morgan Stanley , the largest U.S. brokerage firm with more than 16,000 advisers, for example, does not credit brokers for purchases or sales of securities that trade below $1 a share or on products, other than options, that have commissions under $100 a trade, according to its 2015 compensation plan. Wells is the last of the four big U.S. brokerage firms to issue its annual compensation plan, a document that can run dozens of pages and is scrutinized internally and at competitors to see where the most attractive deals lie and what sales behaviors are being encouraged or discouraged. Morgan Stanley, Bank of America's  Merrill Lynch Wealth Management and UBS  Wealth Management Americas  distributed plans in the past month that offer inducements for working on teams and penalties for discounting fees and commissions and for working with small accounts. In addition to raising its compensable trading ticket size, the new Wells plan will make it more remunerative for lower-producing brokers to work on teams, the sources said. Some Wells brokers have complained that the firm was constraining their ability to manage their teams. Full-service firms are promoting teams as a superior way to handle the sophisticated needs of wealthy clients, with the added benefit of making it harder for teams to bolt en masse to competitors.   (Reporting by Jed Horowitz in New York; editing by Andrew Hay) FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesThis excerpt was taken from Gluskin Sheff's Breakfast with Dave. A full PDF version is available at GluskinSheff.com. As for the oil price, we are into a political game of chicken which means nobody really knows what the bottom is. Did the Saudis blow it with a failed bluff? Or is this a long-term plan to recapture market share from the shale producers and a geopolitical strategy to hit Russia, Iran and ISIS as hard as possible? After all, with a $2 trillion reserve fund to keep fiscal finances afloat, the Saudis have staying power and the oil minister just indicated late last week that a production cut is not coming yet.  At the same time, U.S. oil output continues to rise as the demand conditions globally wane (indeed, U.S. production is growing one million barrels per day annually and the Energy Department just predicted that output will rise 700,000 barrels per day in 2015 and average 9.3 million barrels per day — whatever negative production response there is to be does not happen until the second half of next year).  Something tells me that at some point, the low in the oil price will be turned in when Saudi Arabia announces that “enough is enough” (not yet, obviously, with Al-Naimi asking rhetorically at a Lima conference last week, “Why should I cut production. This is a market and I’m selling in a market. Why should I cut?”). This is what happened in 1986, after all — and once it cut production to 2.5 million barrels per day from 10 million barrels per day at the time, the bottom was finally reached, but only after a 60% slide that ended with WTI near $10 per barrel.  Many geopolitical experts would tell you this was a concerted attempt by the West, with Saudi assistance, to start the process of weakening the Soviet Union back in the mid-1980s — maybe yes, maybe no but for 15 years, oil prices settled in a new and lower range (not $10, mind you) of $20 to $40 dollars a barrel (far off what the National Energy Plan was calling for, if you remember) and we all moved on.  I sense a similar situation this time around but I do have to say that a new consensus has emerged of WTI slumping to $50 per barrel — if you think the consensus call on bond yields this time last year was bad, the forecast for oil was $94.50 per barrel!  If we truly mean revert, we could be in for a retest of $35 per barrel — that is what the chart says, it is not exactly my forecast — and then likely to be in a new range of $50 to $70 dollars thereafter. That $35 level, however, would very much resemble the capitulation lows we had both in 1986 and again in 1998 in real terms (something has to give to bring the market back to balance — the EIA projects that global supply will still outstrip demand by some 400,000 barrels per day in 2015).  That would cause quite a bit of pain in terms production and/or investment cuts, dividend cuts, asset sales, consolidation, defaults in the High-Yield debt space — but this is where capitulation bottoms are turned in historically, regardless of the market whose bubble has burst.  For the time being, the oil market will remain beset by sluggish global growth, excess world supply, and the reluctance of OPEC — or the U.S. for that matter — to curb production.  Imagine going to sleep in 2002 when the oil price was $20 per barrel and waking up today to hear about a collapse to just under $60. We spent several years with a price near or above $100 and as has always been the case in the past, human ingenuity takes over — ways to more efficiently consume oil (forms of conservation) and new innovative ways to produce it.  The “peak oil” theorists were merely food Malthusians in disguise. It was somehow inevitable that lowered pricing was going to become an outcome at some point — the by-product of the technological advancement in fracking and other forms of extraction, along with greater supply. Oh yes, and as if that cheaper alternative (otherwise known as natural gas, where prices sagged with production growth of 40% in the past seven years) didn’t end up having a role in this too.  But what concerns me now is how the markets are reacting in general, not just the energy market. Investors are worried about knock-on effects (especially in the credit markets), the effect this can have on the global financial system, the deflationary impulse on a world economy still beset by an unprecedented debt burden six years after the collapse, and geopolitical implications.  The action in government bonds is telling us that rightly or wrongly, markets are really concerned about the oil price slide exacerbating deflationary pressures — deflation for debtors is indeed a worrisome development. Emerging Markets that are oil exporters and who had previously borrowed heavily in U.S. dollars are going to face severe financial strains.  While lower energy costs certainly benefits the U.S. economy (large trade deficit and consumer driven) in broad terms, it has the opposite effect for many of the world’s zero growth economies.  So now analysts and investors, at the margin, are extrapolating that the U.S. may in fact struggle more next year than is commonly believed. Remember, the surprise, by definition, may well not be on the upside in terms of cyclical risks — the consensus is already at 3% for real growth next year.  As for the “black swan”, I am getting asked about this more and more from our clients. I do not know if I should be comforted by this or feel uneasy — at least there isn’t anyone out there who is wide-eyed and bushy-tailed.  The general uncertainty of the rapid oil decline, coupled with the fragility and intransigence of many of the governments most impacted, calls into question the “unknowables” (social unrest, terrorism, war, etc.) and markets abhor uncertainty — that much we do know. And that is how Friday’s “baby out with the bathwater” felt as a microcosm to that effect.  As I said above, if anyone tells you that have conviction on where oil is going, they are either liars or delusional. That said, I do think that we have set in motion long-term pricing that will be challenged to move materially higher, which should continue to support U.S. — at this point, the fear is almost palpable, but not totally irrational.  And for now, the market is not differentiating between good and bad deflation. The bond market is telling us that deflation globally is becoming more of a serious risk. Full stop.  The economist and the strategist in the room carries the burden of calling the markets, but sometimes you have to step back, take a holistic approach, and assess what the message the markets are actually conveying.  Markets do have this tendency to shoot first and ask questions later. That has not changed one iota.  This article originally appeared at Gluskin Sheff.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
*The U.S. Treasury market as a whole has returned +1% annualized since the end of 2012 (and +0.5% annualized since the low in 10-year yields in July 2012). *Because of imminent Fed rate hikes and depressed yield levels, prospective returns look no better today. *We recommend investors take profit in long-duration ­fixed-income sectors that benefited from 2014’s decline in rates, and look to other sources of income for their bond portfolios. With continued growth and further improvement in labor markets, the Federal Reserve (the Fed) looks likely to begin raising short-term interest rates in 2015, marking an end to the lengthy liquidity trap in the U.S. In our view, government bond markets are unprepared for this outcome at current yield levels. Investors should brace for a year of challenging returns. At this time last year we argued that the U.S. economy would continue to recover in 2014, and that gradually rising rates would prove a headwind to high-quality ­ fixed-income returns*.  We now know that the former view was correct, but the latter was not. Exhibit 1 shows changes in survey expectations for gross domestic product (GDP) growth, core inflation and short-term interest rates one year ahead, comparing the end of 2013 to the latest observation. Expectations for these key drivers of bond yields — growth, inflation and policy rates — have all moved higher over the course of 2014. Exhibit 1: Expectations for GDP growth, core inflation and short-term rates higher on the year Columbia ManagementDespite this improving economic backdrop, long-term Treasury yields declined in 2014, providing a tailwind rather than a headwind to fixed-income returns. The move lower in Treasury yields was not uniform across maturities, however, and the marked changes in curve shape hint to the likely drivers of the rally. As shown in Exhibit 2, near-term forward rates increased as the market began to discount the prospect of Fed rate hikes. In contrast, forward rates three or more years out fell sharply, and those more than six years forward fell by 150 basis points (bps). The net result was a much flatter yield curve, caused primarily by lower long-term forward rates, rather than higher near-term forward rates. Exhibit 2: Drop in distant forward rates drove Treasury yields lower (change, year to date) Columbia ManagementThis steep decline in forward rates has been a puzzle for many bond investors. And even in hindsight the causes are not entirely obvious. However, our research suggests two broad explanations: 1. Monetary easing outside the U.S. Although the Fed moved closer to exiting its easing strategies, both the European Central Bank (ECB) and Bank of Japan (BOJ) stepped up their monetary easing campaigns. The ECB cut short-term interest rates into negative territory, introduced targeted long-term re­ nuancing operations (TLTROs) and began purchasing covered bonds and asset-backed securities (ABS). For its part, the BOJ significantly expanded its quantitative easing (QE) program in late October. Central banks in a number of other countries also cut policy rates, including Sweden, Poland, Korea and Mexico**. In our view, monetary easing overseas goes a long way to explaining why U.S. rates unexpectedly declined this year (Exhibit 3). The normalization of U.S. policy proved the exception rather than the rule. Exhibit 3: U.S. and eurozone on divergent policy paths (1y1y rates) Columbia Management 2. The secular stagnation thesis. Ever since Larry Summers resurrected the concept in November 2013, the idea that developed market economies might be facing a “secular stagnation” has played a role in the debate among bond investors, perhaps because the idea feels intuitively correct to many observers. Secular stagnation is a blanket term covering many ideas about the economy. Two of these ideas, which may not be mutually exclusive, have bearing on the outlook for interest rates. The ­first notion is that the economy requires very low real rates in the medium term because of headwinds impeding the recovery, and the second is that rates will remain low even in the longer term because of slow potential growth. According to economic theory, this outlook leads to a lower neutral policy rate. (The neutral rate is where the Fed will rest short-term interest rates when the economy returns to normal.) Lower neutral policy rates in turn imply a lower “fair value” for forward yields (Exhibit 4). Exhibit 4: 5-year, 5-year forward Treasury yields have returned to pre-taper levels The outlook for rates naturally hinges on these fundamentals — the U.S. economy, the global economy and perceptions about the secular outlook — as well as current market valuations. In our view, the solid returns investors experienced in 2014 are highly unlikely to be repeated, making the present a good time to take profit on long-duration ­fixed income. First, valuations are currently poor. Our measure of the bond risk premium*** turned negative in August and remains there at the time of this writing (Exhibit 5). In plain English, this means that 10-year Treasuries yield less than our expected cash return over the next ten years, and investors are not being compensated for the duration risk on longer term bonds. History tells us that poor returns for interest-sensitive sectors tend to follow these periods. Exhibit 5: Bond risk premium turned negative again Columbia ManagementSecond, the cyclical position of the U.S. economy points to rate hikes next year. The conventional unemployment rate fell by more than 100 bps over the last 12 months and has now slipped below 6%. In addition, broader measures of underutilization in the labor market, such as the percent of workers on part-time schedules and the number of “discouraged workers,” have shown signs of improvement. Our measure of the output gap for the U.S. (the difference between the economy’s actual output and its output at full capacity) is now around -2%, up from -3% a year ago (Exhibit 6). This improvement suggests continued expansion. While wage and price inflation have not ­firmed definitively, Fed officials are unlikely to wait for a complete recovery before beginning the process of normalization. Therefore, we continue to see rate hikes from the Fed starting around the middle of 2015. Exhibit 6: Steady normalization in the output gap Columbia ManagementThird, we expect overseas developments to have a waning influence on U.S. interest rates, though this may take some time to play out. In developed markets, we observe a rough parity between bond yields when countries share two common features: (1) similar cash rates and (2) similar long-run growth and inflation expectations. With cash rates depressed in most places, U.S. Treasuries can seem to offer an attractive yield pick-up compared to German Bunds, for example. However, if cash rates in the U.S. start to rise or long-term macroeconomic fundamentals begin to diverge, Treasuries and Bunds will decouple. Lastly, while it’s difficult to have strong convictions about the secular stagnation thesis, we can be confident about one thing: At current valuations, these ideas need to be correct for Treasuries to generate attractive returns. We are inclined to think that the future will look similar to the past. Thus, markets might be placing too much probability on the idea that major economies will remain in a permanent funk. Time will tell. Long-duration fixed-income assets generated attractive returns in 2014, following sizable losses the year before. On net, the Treasury market as a whole has returned +1% annualized since the end of 2012 (and +0.5% annualized since the low in 10-year yields in July 2012). Because of imminent Fed rate hikes and depressed yield levels, prospective returns look no better today. We recommend investors take profit in long-duration ­fixed-income sectors that benefited from 2014’s decline in rates, and look to other sources of income for their bond portfolios. *“Interest rates: Halfway home,” Columbia Management 2014 Perspectives, December 2013. **Elsewhere there was a mix of cuts and rate hikes in developing Asia and Europe, as well as Latin America. ***For background see “The Bond Risk Premium,” Columbia Management white papers, March 2013. This article originally appeared at Columbia Management Perspectives.  Copyright 2014. Follow Columbia Management Perspectives on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
For RBC Capital Markets, the differences between the US economy and other developed markets is one of the key themes to watch in 2015. The US economy is expected to grow at a faster pace than many of its peers. Closely tied to this is the expectation that the Fed will continue to tighten monetary policy, thus loosening its grip on the economy as it raises interest rates sometime next year. Meanwhile, central banks in Europe, Japan and China will double down on loose monetary policy to boost economic growth. RBC's Jordan Kotick and Jay Govender note that US economic data across the board is stronger today than in 1994, when the Fed was last started a hiking cycle.  However, concerns about weakness in other parts of the world is dampening investor confidence – and that might be giving investors a false sense of security regarding the pace at which the Fed raises rates. "Given the fragility of the global recovery, the market currently prices in only a modest rate hiking cycle with a very low peak. We expect a hiking cycle that is earlier, faster, and peaks higher than the market is currently expecting. While the terminal rate is likely to be lower than in the past, we remain cognizant of the propensity for the Fed to overshoot the average of previous tightening cycles. We expect this to change going into the rate hiking cycle with a more aggressively priced US front end and belly of the curve being the outcome." Coming into this year, the Treasury market had priced in looser monetary policy, but bond prices continued to rally and yields continued to tumble as the Fed made it clearer that interest rates would stay low.  But as RBC notes, "The ongoing bid in US Treasuries is unlikely to withstand the fundamental backdrop of a tightening Fed and a resilient US economy. At present, the forward curve in the US is priced for aggressive flattening and structurally low rates." They add that in spite of this, the Fed will do its best to make its intentions clear so that it doesn't shock markets. FREE AppDownload
Deutsche Bank's David Bianco has reaffirmed his expectation that the S&amp;P 500 will end 2015 at 2,150. While that would represent a respectable 9% gain from today's levels, he is nevertheless one of the more bearish strategists followed by Business Insider. Not only that, he also warns that the S&amp;P is likely to make a 5%+ down move in Q1 before coming back. "We think the key issue for 2015 is how the US economy, its labor market and its monetary policy compare to the world," Bianco wrote in a 90-page note on Monday. "If the Fed hikes in 2015, while other central banks ease, as DB expects, then the dollar is likely to further appreciate and keep oil prices weak. The combination of weak oil and a strong dollar will limit S&amp;P EPS growth to a low single-digit rate despite likely 3%+ real US GDP." Bianco sees the rally extending for years. He forecasts the S&amp;P 500 climbing to 2150 by the end of next year, and 2030 in 2016. "In today’s inflation and real long-term interest rate environment, we consider a 7.5% nominal and 5.5% real total return from the S&amp;P 500 to be fair and likely superior to most major alternatives," he wrote. "We think the S&amp;P is likely to deliver such annual total returns in 2015 and over the next few years and is thus fairly valued." Here's Bianco's summary of the top 15 market themes for 2015: 1)    Tough start: S&amp;P likely dips 5%+ in 1Q on EPS cuts and Fed hikes in sight 2)    Stick with strength: We stay OW Health Care and lower PE big-cap Tech where further PE expansion has most potential and EPS growth is healthy 3)    Domestic cyclicals OW: Strong US GDP should benefit Banks &amp; Retailers 4)    Slow EPS growth, but strong payouts: DPS growth favored payout play 5)    Keep cautious commodity plays: Wait for oil to stop falling and 4Q reports 6)    Industrial Capital Goods face 3 big macro challenges: China, oil and dollar 7)    Capex motives: Productivity enhancers desired, but not additional capacity 8)    Transports deserve a sector: Transports are more domestic and fuel users 9)    Relive the 1980s?: Weak oil (v), strong dollar (v), more corp. debt usage (?) 10) S&amp;P margins: 10%+ net margins to be challenged, but no mean reversion 11) Be patient, buy the dips: Slow EPS and looming Fed hikes to bring dips 12) Republican Congress: Our focus is on corporate tax policy/ repatriation tax 13) Small caps: A better 2015 than 2014 seen, but large-caps still preferred 14) A lot of unexpected things can happen in a year: Derivatives can help 15) What are normal interest rates and the corresponding fair S&amp;P PE? And here's what other top Wall Street strategists are expecting for next year: FREE AppDownload
The “well known fact” with regards to oil over the last decade read like this: because of huge GDP growth in emerging markets like China, there were going to be 400 million new middle class citizens born of uninterrupted prosperity; they were going to want all the autos, consumer goods, $10,000 watches and food that Americans have. The demand for commodities was going to be endless because capitalism practiced under authoritarian control was going to be better than the “invisible hand” of the free market. No recessions or depressions required. Now, with oil dropping from $95 per barrel to below $57 through the first half of December 2014, many pundits seem to focus on the over-supply of oil and falling demand in a slowing global economy. But we think they miss the long-term view. As long-duration common stock investors, we don’t see oil dropping merely because OPEC and Bakken Shale have produced too much supply. Instead, we see oil’s demise as a symptom of something larger: the unwinding of a globally synchronized trade tied to the “well known fact” stated above. Part of the job of the long-term contrarian investor is to identify a body of economic information which is not only known to all market participants, but has been acted upon by anyone in the marketplace who wishes to participate. We call this the “well known fact.” If we know where the vast majority of investors are, then we can contentiously go where they are not. Nearly every major institutional and high-net-worth individual investor had to adjust their portfolio to this particular “fact” about China and the emerging markets over the last decade. The most successful money managers of the prior decade, who had successfully participated early in the “well known fact,” were validated and received adulation for promoting it (think BRIC-trade). As Warren Buffett likes to say, “What the wise man does at the beginning, fools do at the end.” The boom created by a once-in-a-generation and massive capital re-allocation toward everything related to the globally-synchronized trade did what all booms do. It turned to bust. Few experts or pundits view it this way, but for many it’s often tough to see the forest through the trees. We think it would be helpful at this point to review other psychologically-driven boom-bust cycles to analyze the depth of their declines and the duration of the bear market which followed. In this way, we might prosper from the disarray of investment managers and the largest institutional pools. They remained trapped chasing an over-capitalized belief in the 400 million new middle-class citizens on “a permanently higher plateau” in commodities. What can we as long-duration common stock investors glean from reviewing these past episodes of financial euphoria? First, it appears that stocks confess sins and cleanse faster than other asset classes. Second, the connection to leverage and the inter-connectedness of multiple asset classes seemed to cause longer-duration declines in the past. For example, tech stocks had very little debt and most investors weren’t using margin in 1999. Therefore, the grief didn’t spread to the real economy; however, owners of leveraged oil tax shelters and garden-style apartments in the Sun Belt in 1981 were illiquid and everything inflation-related was tied together. Third, our observations suggest that asset quality affects decline duration. Exxon paid dividends from 1981-1999, while gold and commodity indexes didn’t. Investors had something to fall back on like earnings, free cash flow and dividends. Lastly, how fast can money managers purge? Most institutions and high-net worth individual investors have the stamp of the well-known-fact all over their portfolios as evidenced by studies like the 2013 NACUBO study of endowments and foundations. It should take years to rearrange their commitment to all aspects of the globally-synchronized trade. What do we look for among common stocks as we bargain hunt in sectors which get unwound by a vicious bear market following the unwinding of a “well known fact?” We will watch for the shaming of the globally-synchronized-trade apologists in the media and the closing or liquidation of sector mutual funds, ETFs, hedge fund and private equity vehicles tied to the globally-synchronized trade. This is historically what occurs near the bottom as capacity contracts severely. So far, nobody has even been criticized yet, let alone vilified. Wait for the time when few are mentioning the new 400-million middle class citizens and when the word “damn” gets put in front of the stocks, commodities and asset classes involved. Finally, we believe that you shouldn’t give too much weighting to any mid-December 2014 explanation which doesn’t include the psychology of a boom/bust cycle and the long-duration nature of the law of supply and demand. The information contained in this missive represents SCM’s opinions, and should not be construed as personalized or individualized investment advice. Past performance is no guarantee of future results. It should not be assumed that investing in any securities mentioned above will or will not be profitable. A list of all recommendations made by Smead Capital Management within the past twelve month period is available upon request. This article originally appeared at Smead Capital.  Copyright 2014. Follow Smead Capital on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Mike Nudelman/Business InsiderJanet Yellen.On Wednesday, we get the Federal Reserve's last monetary policy decision of the year.  The decision will be released at 2:00 pm ET, and a press conference with Fed Chair Janet Yellen will start at 2:30 pm ET.  The last time a Fed meeting was accompanied by a press conference was September 17.  The Fed obviously considers what's happening in the world economy and financial markets as it debates its next policy move and the language contained in its statement.  Here's how different the investing world looked back in September: You can read our full preview of Wednesday's meeting here » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/RIA Novosti/Pool Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin (R) talks with Economic Development Minister Elvira Nabiullina during a meeting on the Russian automobile industry in Togliatti in the Samara region March 30, 2009(Reuters) - Late on Monday night Russia's central bank governor wrung out an agreement with her officials to impose the country's biggest rate hike since the financial crisis of 1998 -- with the approval of President Vladimir Putin. Elvira Nabiullina had to halt the collapse of the rouble -- down 56 percent against the dollar so far this year -- not only to avoid the chaos of another economic implosion but to remove a growing threat to Putin. His ratings are at an all-time high following the annexation of Ukraine's Crimea, but depend too on his promises of financial stability. A source close to the Kremlin could not say whether Putin had ordered the rate hike, or if he simply approved it. "I cannot tell you who called whom. But this was not some minor policy tuning, this was a huge rate hike, of course the president was involved," said the source. The Kremlin was quoted as saying by RIA news agency on Tuesday that it would not comment on the decision as the bank was independent of it. Initially some board members suggested increasing the main rate by 400-450 basis points, sources familiar with the situation told Reuters, to try to shore up an economy pushed to the brink of recession by plummeting oil prices and Western sanctions resulting from Putin's action on Ukraine. But by 10:00 p.m. (1400 ET), all had agreed to an unprecedented 650 basis points hike, the biggest since 1998 - when an economic collapse prompted the rouble to crash and caused millions of Russians to lose their savings as the country defaulted. "The meeting was long, the meeting was difficult and the decision was very difficult," said one of the sources close to the matter. Oleg Vyugin, chairman of the board of MDM Bank and a former first deputy central bank chairman, said the Kremlin may not have issued direct instructions. "This (the Kremlin's influence) does not necessarily have to be in the form of consultations," he said. "It could be a tacit understanding - as a carte blanche: you make decisions and you are responsible for them." REUTERS/Maxim ShemetovRussia's Central Bank Governor Elvira Nabiullina. The meeting ended soon after 10:00 p.m. At around 2330, a Reuters correspondent saw Nabiullina's black Audi -- with its blue flashing light of Russia's political elite -- drive back through the gates of the central bank. It is not clear why she returned, but sources familiar with central bank procedures say her signature was most probably needed on the final document. After the decision, it took the bank almost three hours to send text messages to a group of journalists who cover monetary policy. Those messages arrived at 0047 local time, alerting them that a press release would appear on the bank's website. "The decision was ready, but there were technical glitches," said the source familiar with the central bank. By 0051 on Tuesday, an hour and six minutes after the rouble stopped trading on the MICEX index, the bank's announcement was published. At Tuesday's opening, the rouble opened up 9 percent. But it soon fell back to record lows and was trading down 17 percent on the day at 0705 ET. Speaking to Russian state-owned Rossiya-24 television channel after the currency marketshad opened, a pale Nabiullina defended her decision, saying it was aimed at curbing the negative effect of the rouble weakness. Investors and analysts had praised the central bank for its action to support the rouble when it fell on news that Russia would intervene militarily in Ukraine. Back in March the bank spent as much as $10 billion a day to defend the currency, though since then it has intervened only sporadically. But on Tuesday Russian lawmakers called for Nabuillina's resignation, dubbing her a "pest". Her first deputy in charge of monetary policy, Ksenia Yudayeva, was also criticized. "I am not sure whether Nabiullina can survive this," said Timothy Ash, head of Emerging Markets research at Standard Bank in London. "She has now had the worst of all worlds, allowing the rouble to crash, having lost close to $100 billion in forex reserves and having hiked policy rates by more than 1,000 basis points now this year." "I am asking myself who has been running monetary and exchange rate policy in Russia in recent weeks. Was it the central bank or the Kremlin?"  (Additional reporting by Oksana Kobzeva, Katya Golubkova and Vladimir Abramov; Writing by Lidia Kelly; Editing by Elizabeth Piper and Sophie Walker) FREE AppDownload
FlickrFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. The Falling Oil Prices Are A Bad Omen For The Global Economy (Morningstar)  "Falling oil prices are yet another indicator of falling world economic activity," write Robert Johnson and Roland Czerniawski. "So while the US consumer might be doing better, the world, in general, is slowing down. That will continue to reduce US export growth." Additionally, a robust US economy and higher interest rates could strengthen the dollar further, which would cause US exports to be less competitive and would decrease US export growth further. And finally, "for now, the asset price drops [in the energy sector] are mainly based on fear, but if low prices are sustained, there will clearly be more defaults than usual in the energy and junk bond sectors," they add. Citi Was Fined $3 Million For Failing To Send Prospectuses To 250,000 Clients (The Wall Street Journal)  "Citigroup Inc. has to pay a $3 million fine for failing to send prospectuses for exchange-traded funds to more than 250,000 brokerage clients," reports Matthias Rieker. The bank failed to deliver prospectuses for about 160 ETFs from 2009 through April 2011 in over 1.5 million ETF purchases. The bank is "pleased to put the matter behind us," a spokesman for Citi said. Citi is not the only firm that has struggled with prospectus-delivery problems. Morgan Stanley also recently stated that it has experienced glitches with delivering prospectuses electronically. Unless Gold Completely Collapses, Oil Should Bounce Back In The Year Ahead (Advisor Perspectives)  What's going on with oil isn't a sign of economic weakness, writes Brian Wesbury, but rather a rightward shift in the supply curve followed by a lower-than-expected demand. "Stocks and oil have fallen too much. Stocks should rebound soon and, barring a collapse in gold, we look for stability and then rising prices for oil in the years ahead," writes Wesbury.  There's traditionally been a relative-price relationship between gold and oil. Over the last 30 years, it's averaged around 15.8 — where one ounce of gold buys 15.8 barrels of oil. In 2005, the ratio got as low as 6.7, and in 1986, it was at a high of 30.1. Today, it's about 21.2. Most Advisory Firms Have No Idea How To Get Client Referrals (Investment News)  Only about one-third of firms have a formal process with which they ask for referrals from third-party professionals and existing clients, according to research by Investment News. This suggests that firms are extremely passive when it comes to getting client referrals, even though they account for a large portion of the business, according to Matt Sirinides. "When it comes to referrals, the subset of top-performing firms in our study really stood out — 42% of them had a formal referral process with clients, and they also exceeded their peers in formalizing a process with third-party professionals as well (37%)," Sirinides writes. Schorsch Out (Wealth Management) "Nicholas Schorsch has stepped down from his role as executive chairman and director of American Realty Capital Properties, the nontraded REIT [real-estate investment trust] sponsor he cofounded. Schorsch remains a majority shareholder in the company. He will also no longer serve on the board of directors at Cole Capital REITs," reports Diane Britton. "The actions taken today will stabilize the company and are necessary to strengthen future leadership and strategy, improve governance, and complete a separation from Nick Schorsch and his affiliates," said interim CEO William Stanley. Back in October, ARCP announced a $23-billion account error, which led numerous broker/dealers and firms to suspend sales of ARCP products.   FREE AppDownload
In his memoir, "Yes, Chef," Marcus Samuelsson recounts the journey from his humble roots in Ethiopia to the highly competitive kitchens in Sweden and New York where he honed his craft. He sees the world through the lens of food, because it's what helps him feel most at home.  Samuelsson admits, however, that family life is harder to figure out. He wrote candidly about missing the funerals of his beloved grandmother and father, and only belatedly starting to take care of a child he fathered at a young age. In this video, Samuelsson says that finding the right work-life balance continues to present him with his biggest challenge. Produced by Devan Joseph and Alana Kakoyiannis.Follow BI Video: On Twitter
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Vanguard Group became the largest U.S. fund manager by assets by persuading investors that they don't need to pay for a stock picker. Yet a funny thing happened along the way: Most of the 30 active stock funds the firm runs have actually beaten their respective benchmarks and Vanguard’s own highly touted index funds. Over the last three years, 20 out of Vanguard's 30 actively managed stock funds outperformed their benchmarks by an average of 1.1 percentage points a year, according to Lipper data. Under lead manager James Stetler, the $615 million Vanguard Strategic Small Cap Equity Fund, for example, topped its index by 3.2 percentage points a year over the same period. Even in the large-cap stock space, where indexing is supposed to deliver the greatest value, the $13.8 billion Vanguard Capital Opportunity Fund has outperformed the S&amp;P 500 index by 6.5 percentage points a year for the last three years. An investor who put $10,000 into the Vanguard Capital Opportunity fund on Dec 13, 2011, would now have $20,081, according to Morningstar, or $2,884 more than if she had invested in Vanguard's flagship S&amp;P 500 index fund. For most firms, such performance would quickly work its way into an advertisement. Yet Vanguard says little about its actively-managed line of funds, which receive most of their assets from 401(k) and other employer-sponsored plans and account for about $940 billion in assets under management. Vanguard overall has $2.96 trillion under management. Some of that likely stems from the influence of firm founder Jack Bogle, who launched the world's first index fund in 1976 and has done more than anyone else to make indexing mainstream. Before then, Vanguard was - like every other fund company - a firm that was focused solely on active management. "If the data do not prove that indexing wins, well, the data are wrong," Bogle wrote in the Little Book of Common Sense Investing (Wiley), a book published in 2007 that lays out his philosophy that active management, with its attendant higher fees, can't win. He did not respond to a request for comment for this story. Yet the performance of portfolio managers running Vanguard funds suggests that stock picking is not a fool's errand, as some of Bogle's most devoted fanatics, known as Bogleheads, make it out to be. Vanguard's attempt to walk the line between touting passive investing while also holding approximately a third of the firm's overall assets in actively-managed funds could be complicated if its active funds continue to outperform, said Todd Rosenbluth, director of mutual fund research at S&amp;P Capital IQ. But the firm is not worried about losing the loyalty or assets of the indexing adherents it has picked up in recent years. Stock picking funds attract "a different type of client" who has time and interest to research fund managers, said Daniel Newhall, a principal in the firm's Portfolio Review Group.  Overall, Bogle's point about passive investing seems to hold. For the year to date, 73 percent of actively-managed value funds are lagging the approximately 8 percent gain in the S&amp;P 500 index, while 94 percent of actively-managed growth funds are underperforming the benchmark, according to S&amp;P Capital IQ. Vanguard's outperformance has probably been at least in part due to what Newhall, the Vanguard principal, calls the "common thread" of all the firm's funds: low costs. Vanguard charges an average of 41 cents per $100 invested in its actively-managed stock funds, compared with an average of $1.25 among all actively-managed stock funds, according to Lipper data. Those low fees, and strong performance, haven't led to a flood of assets. For the year to date, Vanguard has brought in $118 billion into its passive stock funds and exchange traded funds, according to Lipper data, compared with just $1 billion in new money invested in its funds run by stock pickers. The company will likely continue to put its emphasis on passive investing, which is the strongest part of its brand, Rosenbluth, the fund analyst, said. Yet the actively managed funds allow it to keep investors who do want an element of stock picking in their portfolios from sending money to rivals such as Fidelity Investments or Charles Schwab Corp, he said. "They're going to go with the firm they already like and trust," he said.     (Reporting by David Randall; editing by Linda Stern and John Pickering) FREE AppDownload
Virgin GalacticEven the person who seems to have everything has something on their holiday wish list. But what could they possibly want? We found 10 incredibly lavish over-the-top gifts for the millionaire in your life. Ordered from least to most expensive, we give you everything from living art to space travel.  FREE AppDownload
Someone sent a fake email to University of Pennsylvania undergraduates enrolled in the Wharton Business School announcing a new community service requirement — of one hour a semester. Student blog Under The Button posted the fake email, which went out to undergrads on Monday evening. There is currently no community service requirement for Wharton, which is known as one of the top and most competitive business schools in the country. It's not clear how exactly the pranksters sent their announcement out, but to their credit, the hoax email looks pretty believable. Here's how it announced the supposed new requirement: The new "Wharton SERVES" program facilitates undergraduates engaging with the world through community service in partnership with SERVE Philadelphia. Community involvement has always been a cornerstone of Wharton's values: from Joseph Wharton's philanthropic undertakings to the more recent launch of the Social Impact Initiative. The Wharton SERVES program is the next step in that legacy. Starting this Spring, all Wharton undergraduates are required to engage in 1 hour of one of the following endorsed community service projects (or to propose an alternative, explained below). The endorsed projects have been selected both because of their importance to the communities they serve, and because they will facilitate undergraduates working together. The UPenn administration was quick to deny the alleged program, with an email, as Under The Button describes it, "reminding students that Wharton would NEVER do such a thing." The email was sent by Lee Kramer, Wharton's director of undergraduate student life, who writes, "Last night, many of you receieved an email about a 'new Wharton Undergrad Community Service Requirement.' This email is a hoax. The program described in the email is not a real Wharton program." Kramer also said that the email is being investigated by Wharton Computing and Penn's Office of Information Security. Here's the original email, via Under The Button: Via Under The Button Here's the full text of the Wharton email: Dear Wharton Undergraduates, We are pleased to introduce an exciting new requirement as part of your educational experience at Wharton starting for the 2015 Spring semester. The new "Wharton SERVES" program facilitates undergraduates engaging with the world through community service in partnership with SERVE Philadelphia. Community involvement has always been a cornerstone of Wharton's values: from Joseph Wharton's philanthropic undertakings to the more recent launch of the Social Impact Initiative. The Wharton SERVES program is the next step in that legacy. Starting this Spring, all Wharton undergraduates are required to engage in 1 hour of one of the following endorsed community service projects (or to propose an alternative, explained below). The endorsed projects have been selected both because of their importance to the communities they serve, and because they will facilitate undergraduates working together. We're pleased to announce the endorsed projects for Spring 2015 are: Upon completing your project, fill out this form and submit it by email to [redacted]. If you'd like to submit an alternative project, please include in the email contact information for the supervisor who signs your form. You will receive a confirmation email, upon submitting your form to let you know that you have been marked down as satisfying the requirement. This is our first year so we're going to take this one step at a time. Any feedback is welcome. We look forward to engaging! Best regards, Wharton Community Projects Committee FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mario Anzuoni Dov Charney. While Charney was fired as CEO in June, he had been working as a consultant for the company. The company named Paula Schneider, a retail executive who was previously at swimwear company Warnaco, CEO.  American Apparel abruptly fired Charney in June because of "concerns about his trustworthiness," The Wall Street Journal reported at the time. Since then, the company has been further investigating him.  "Based on this investigation, the special committee determined that it would not be appropriate for Mr. Charney to be reinstated as CEO or an officer or employee," the company said in a release. "While under suspension as CEO, Mr. Charney had been serving as a consultant to the Company. This relationship has now been terminated." Charney, who founded American Apparel, has been accused of harassment numerous times. Many of those claims were found to be bogus.  But Businessweek reported in October that the brand was increasingly open to keeping Charney on board.  Here's the full release:  LOS ANGELES--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- The Board of Directors of American Apparel, Inc. (NYSE MKT: APP) today announced that it has appointed veteran fashion executive Paula Schneider as Chief Executive Officer, effective January 5, 2015. This appointment follows the termination of Dov Charney, former President and Chief Executive Officer, for cause in accordance with the terms of his employment agreement. Scott Brubaker, who has been serving as Interim CEO, will continue in the post until Ms. Schneider joins the company, after which he will remain as a consultant to ensure an orderly transition. An experienced executive with an extensive track record in design, merchandising, sales, manufacturing, finance, licensing and human resources, Ms. Schneiderhas a well-earned reputation for improving the financial performance and operational efficiencies of numerous global fashion brands. She has served as president or senior officer of a number of retail and apparel companies, including Warnaco, Gores Group, BCBG Max Azria, and Laundry by Shelli Segal. "American Apparel has a unique and incredible story, and it's exciting to become part of such an iconic brand," said Ms. Schneider. "My goal is to makeAmerican Apparel a better company, while staying true to its core values of quality and creativity and preserving its sweatshop-free, Made in USA manufacturing philosophy." "This company needs a permanent CEO who can bring stability and strong leadership in this time of transition, and we believe Ms. Schneider fits the bill perfectly," said David Danziger, Co-Chairman of the Board. "We remain grateful to Scott Brubaker for his hard work and invaluable insights towards improving our operations." Mr. Charney was suspended as president and CEO by the Board on June 18 for alleged misconduct and violations of company policy. Under terms of an agreement signed by Mr. Charney on July 9, a special committee of the Board oversaw an internal investigation conducted by FTI Consulting into the allegations against Mr. Charney. Based on this investigation, the special committee determined that it would not be appropriate for Mr. Charney to be reinstated as CEO or an officer or employee of the Company. While under suspension as CEO, Mr. Charney had been serving as a consultant to the Company. This relationship has now been terminated. "We're pleased that what we set out to do last spring - namely, to ensure that American Apparel had the right leadership - has been accomplished," said Allan Mayer, Co-Chairman of the Board. "We are confident that Paula Schneider has the skills and background to lead the company to long-term success."       FREE AppDownload
Oliver SweeneyThe Oliver Sweeney Johnnie Walker collaboration has a cut out for a miniature bottle of scotch.British shoemaker Oliver Sweeney has partnered with legendary scotch whiskey producer Johnnie Walker for a limited collaboration dress shoe. And it's pretty awesome. The new shoe takes a classic Oxford style brogue dress shoe and gussies it up with red accents in the stitching, laces, sole, and red suede inside the shoe. It also put the iconic Johnnie Walker "striding man" in the form of a tattoo on the rear quarter, and "JW" in red stitching on the back of the shoe. But by far the most unexpected part of the shoes is its heel, which houses a miniature bottle of Johnnie Walker Red Label Scotch Whiskey.  Oliver SweeneyJohnnie Walker-red accents feature in the shoe's stitching, laces, sole, and the red suede inside the shoe.While this would make drinking on the go a whole lot more convenient, we're not sold on the abnormally large stacked heel or glass bottom. We're also left wondering won't the cute little miniature bottles fall out? The shoe comes with its own bottle of Red Label, too, making these the only shoes in the world where you could possibly be carded for purchasing them. Only 130 pairs of these Italian-made shoes will be sold, retailing for $489 a pop. Fine liquor and fine footwear — a match made in "Mad Men" heaven. Oliver SweeneyThe only shoes you'll possibly be carded for purchasing. FREE AppDownload
Beijing is to launch a major crackdown on the multibillion-dollar flow of illicit funds through Macau casinos in a coordinated security drive that will see the country's powerful Ministry of Public Security play a leading role. The unprecedented move - confirmed by documents seen by the Post that were sent to Macau's banks late yesterday by the city's monetary authority - turns up the heat on controversial VIP junket operators who generate the bulk of Macau gaming revenues as they come under increasing law enforcement scrutiny amid the "tigers and flies" anti-corruption drive by President Xi Jinping . It also piles more pressure on the Macau government to come up with a plan to diversify its casino-reliant economy as it prepares for a visit by Xi on Friday to mark the 15th anniversary of the former Portuguese enclave's return to Chinese sovereignty. Macau casinos are going through one of the most significant slumps since the market was liberalised in 2002 and the drop in revenues - linked directly to the anti-corruption drive - has prompted a series of warnings from senior mainland figures that the situation poses a danger not only to the city's economic future but to the interests of the nation "as a whole". According to sources with knowledge of the situation, the new security drive will give the ministry's Economic Crimes Investigation Bureau electronic access to all transfers through the state-backed China UnionPay bank payment card to identify suspicious transactions. The bureau is spearheading the "Fox Hunt" operation aimed at securing the return of corrupt party officials who have fled overseas and funneled millions of dollars worth of illicit funds out of the country in contravention of currency controls. The key involvement of the Ministry of Public Security - which met with senior Macau officials last month to hammer out the details of the crackdown - also provides confirmation of the long-held belief by many in law enforcement that Macau casinos are a major conduit for capital flight from the mainland. When told of the plan yesterday, a senior casino industry insider told thePost: "This is big. They're calling it the 'new normal' here in Macau. This is direct control over transactions by the Ministry of Public Security. It's serious and key people are going to be scared." A Macau-based analyst who asked not to be named said: "This seems directed at the junkets more than the mass floors. But I think the casinos' own VIP marketing teams ought to be cautious, too. If the Public Security Ministry is involved, this is most likely part of Fox Hunt. They are looking for big guys, not the rank and file." The move follows action taken earlier this year to restrict illicit money flows into Macau through China UnionPay. The move was aimed at identifying suspicious transactions. It also follows a coordinated effort by law-enforcement authorities in Beijing, Hong Kong and Macau to combat money-laundering activities, according to sources. The trigger for the enforcement campaign was a report carried by thePost in May, detailing concerns at the highest levels in Beijing about how the China UnionPay system in Macau was being used to conduct fake or fraudulent transactions. The concerns sparked a high-level visit by a delegation from the Ministry of Public Security to Macau on November 20. At this meeting, the issue of money-laundering controls in Macau was discussed, and it was agreed to establish a more effective cross-border enforcement regime with the cooperation of several of Macau's key regulatory agencies. Representatives from the People's Bank of China and China UnionPay on the mainland side, and Macau's monetary authority, judiciary police and public prosecutor's office were at the meeting. The Post has learned from sources with an understanding of the situation that the assistance of Hong Kong's law-enforcement agencies has also been sought. They cited renewed moves to freeze the assets of alleged triad boss Cheung Chi-tai in connection with alleged money-laundering in Macau, where Cheung operates a leading junket business. The sources point to recent announcements of increased cooperation with other countries, most notably the United States and France, in the effort to track down corrupt officials and their associates who have fled overseas. FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesIt was a wild day in the market on Tuesday as the Russian ruble crumbled and stocks had a wild day after opening lower, surging higher, and closing at the lows of the day.  First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Tuesday:  1. It was all about the ruble. Last night, the Russian central bank unexpectedly hiked interest rates to 17% from 10.5% in an effort to stem the decline in the value of the ruble, which got crushed on Monday. On Tuesday, losses for the ruble got even worse, with the ruble falling to as low as 79 against the US dollar, marking two days in a row of at least 10% declines in the ruble's value.  2. With the ruble collapsing, many investors were having flashbacks to the Russian default of 1998. But in a note to clients, Kit Juckes at Societe Generale wrote that the differences between now and 1998 are more important than the similarities.  3. At noon eastern, retail foreign exchange platform FXCM closed trading in the USD/RUB currency pair that goes long US dollars and short Russian rubles. In a statement to Business Insider, FXCM said the decision was related to "most Western Banks" halting pricing of the pair.  4. The ruble is now the world's worst performing currency in 2014, blowing past the Ukrainian hryvnia, which had been the world's laggard. Some of the other major currency losers this year include the Argentine peso, the Norwegian krone, and the Chilean peso.  5. The rate hikes from Russia were unexpected and dramatic last night, and according to a report from Russian-language business publication Vedomosti, one Russian bank manager said raising rates marked "the end of the banking system."  6. Amid instability in the ruble, Apple suspended online operations in Russia. Apple told Bloomberg that its online store in Russia was made unavailable as the company reviews pricing.  7. The price of oil was volatile on Tuesday, with WTI futures falling below $54 early in the morning before rallying back above $57 a barrel near midday. Ultimately, WTI gave back some of its gains and futures settled at around $55.50.  7. And while the market's focus was on Russia on Tuesday, Markit's flash manufacturing PMI report slipped to 53.7 in December from 54.8 in November, the lowest reading for the headline index since October 2013. We also got housing data via housing starts, which unexpectedly fell 1.6% to an annualized rate of 1.028 million. Building permits also plunged at an annualized pace of 5.2% to 1.035 million in November. Following the report, TD Securities' Millan Mulraine said, "Overall, this was a disappointing report and it further underscores that the ongoing narrative of the housing sector recovery continuing to struggle for direction." 8. Markets might've been distracted on Tuesday by Russia, oil, and the overall volatility in markets. But the week's big event is coming up on Wednesday: the December FOMC meeting. We spoke with the college Fed challenge national championship team from New York City's Pace University ahead of the meeting, and while the biggest debate leading up to the meeting has been whether or not the Fed will drop "considerable time" from its policy statement, Pace told us emphatically: "No." Don't Miss: What Happens Next In Financial Markets Depends On One Thing » FREE AppDownload
General Electric doesn't have a great outlook on oil.  In its annual investor presentation, GE included the following two slides, which state that the company expects revenue and profit in its oil-and-gas segment to be flat to down next year, and that it plans to maintain a "pragmatic outlook" for this segment of its business next year.  Keep in mind that GE is one of the world's biggest conglomerates. It has its hands in dozens of businesses and takes in billions of dollars a year, and so it must be careful with how it words things. A "pragmatic outlook"? This is not an enthusiastic take on the business. If anything, it reflects uncertainty and implies that we probably shouldn't expect a big boom in energy spending. General Electric General Electric This warning from GE comes after a huge decline in the price of oil, which has been the story in markets over the last several months. On Tuesday, the price of oil had another wild ride, with West Texas Intermediate crude futures cracking $54 a barrel for the first time in five years before surging above $57 and then finishing the day flat.  Brent crude, the international benchmark, also broke $59 for the first time in five years. This year, the price of oil has fallen more than 40%, which is just a stunning decline. And as market guru Mark Dow told Business Insider on Tuesday, it isn't just the decline in oil that has markets on edge, but the speed. As Dow said, "The speed of the price change is almost always more important than the level for our psychology." Business Insider        FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersRussian rouble banknotes are seen in this illustration picture taken in MoscowRussia's rouble crisis has put Moscow's economic policy "between a rock and a hard place," but the impact on the United States should be limited, President Barack Obama's top economist told reporters on Tuesday. The rouble has plunged more than 50 percent this year versus the U.S. dollar, thanks in part to slumping oil prices and Western economic sanctions, dropping more than 11 percent on Tuesday. "If I was chairman of President Putin's council of economic advisers, I would be extremely concerned," said Jason Furman, the chairman of Obama's Council of Economic advisers. "They are between a rock and a hard place in economic policy," Furman said, noting the country has raised interest rates to defend its currency, hurting the domestic economy and confidence. "It's a serious economic situation that is largely of their own making and largely reflects the consequences of not following a set of international rules," Furman said. He said the United States has limited exposure to the Russian ruble crisis, with exports to Russia accounting for only a tenth of one percent of the U.S. gross domestic product. But other economic slowdowns around the world do present a challenge to the United States, Furman said, citing weakness in Europe and Japan, and slower growth in China. FREE AppDownload
 Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) is waging a campaign against Antonio Weiss, a Wall Streeter who has been nominated to an undersecretary position at the US Treasury. Not surprisingly, given the lingering anti-Wall Street sentiment stemming from the financial crisis, Warren's supporters are getting behind her on this one. But this particular campaign is a waste of Warren's time and America's time.  Warren's considerable talents and efforts on behalf of America's middle-class families would be more effectively targeted elsewhere. But instead of using her powerful bully pulpit to clean up Wall Street itself, or to push for measures that would help the economy or those less fortunate, Warren is turning this minor nomination into a symbol for Wall Street's hold on Washington.  Warren also argues that Weiss — whose considerable talents could be used at Treasury — is not qualified for the job he's being nominated for. That dog won't hunt. Since 2009, Weiss has been the head of investment banking at Lazard, a small international asset-management and advisory firm. Lazard is not one of the colossal megabanks that imploded during the financial crisis, or one you'll see getting sued for this, that, and the other thing, every other day. Lazard is also not one of the firms that packaged and sold millions of near-worthless mortgage-backed securities, thus contributing to the housing bust.  Weiss was based in Paris for many years, handling big international deals that often require understanding complicated regulatory issues that vary by country. He's a member of the Council on Foreign Relations and a graduate of Yale and Harvard Business School.  Warren argues that this experience is wrong for the Treasury post, which deals with domestic-debt management and regulatory issues.  Others, including a group of former Treasury officials who have actually done the job, disagree. They wrote a letter saying there's no way any one person could be perfectly prepared for such a unique job — undersecretary for domestic finance — and that Weiss' skill set is about as close as it comes. The Obama administration hasn't backed down from supporting him, either. Unfortunately, none of Weiss' supporters come close to making the noise that Warren's camp can make when they're really into something. She has an amazing base of support, mostly well-deserved, and many Americans who hadn't even heard of her a year or two ago are now calling for her to run for president. But this campaign isn't the place where Warren's supporters should be focusing their ire.  One advantage of having a Wall Streeter in the Treasury is that they're not afraid of Wall Street. The executives whose firms Weiss will have to regulate and negotiate with will be the same people he used to compete with and negotiate against, not people he one day hopes to get a job from. Weiss' salary at Lazard made him more than financially secure. His job at Treasury will be a massive pay cut.  Weiss's real-world expertise, in fact, is exactly what we need at Treasury, which is for the most part staffed with career bureaucrats. Weiss' job as a top mergers-and-acquisitions banker was to get the best deal for his client. Now his client will be America. So it's a shame that Warren is wasting her formidable intelligence, charm, and leadership on this particular campaign. Her other crusades have been more useful. Forgiving some student-loan debt, for example, could help spur economic growth by putting more money in young people's pockets and helping them start to do things that became impossible after the financial crisis — like putting a down payment on their first house. The creation of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, Warren's first pre-Senate effort, is also a noble cause. If it works as envisioned, it will help protect Americans from shady financial products. That's something everyone can use. Elizabeth Warren has proven that she can make amazing changes that help ordinary Americans. Blocking Antonio Weiss from the Treasury won't be one of them.      FREE AppDownload

 It has been a wild few days for global financial markets.  The ruble collapsed, Russia's central bank raised rates, and oil was all over the place, all while equity markets, bond markets, and currency markets around the world were seesawing back and forth. But what happens next in the global economy depends on one thing: the price of oil.  In a note to clients Tuesday, Capital Economics' John Higgins writes: "Looking ahead, the depth of Russia's problems and the consequences for the global financial markets will obviously depend on what happens next to the price of oil." Higgins writes that the current price — roughly $56 a barrel for West Texas Intermediate and $60 a barrel for Brent crude — should provide some support. But Higgins adds that he "wouldn't be surprised" if oil prices "fell further in the near term. If that were to happen, the last fortnight of 2014 could be a turbulent one indeed." Earlier Tuesday, Business Insider's Henry Blodget talked to Mark Dow about what's next for the global economy. Dow also centered his outlook on what happened next with oil, saying "the speed factor" of oil's price decline was "what has us most on edge. The speed of the price change is almost always more important than the level for our psychology." And so while the declining price of oil could have some positive effects for US consumers who are dealt cheaper gas prices as a result, both Dow and Higgins are skeptical on the net benefit of this.  Dow and Higgins both made similar points, that while there could be any number of direct causes, it is clear that something has changed in the investing landscape; the appetite for risk has significantly decreased in the past few weeks. And what happens next has everything to do with where oil goes from here.  Bloomberg.comThe orange line WTI crude over the past year. The green line is Brent.   FREE AppDownload
 Morgan Stanley is a notoriously difficult place to get a job.  Take its summer-internship program as an example: 90,000 people applied to the gig in 2014, but only 1,000 were accepted, yielding a 1.1% acceptance rate.  That's lower than the admission rate at Harvard, Yale, or Princeton. It's lower than the acceptance rate for analyst gigs at Goldman Sachs.  But if you do make it into Morgan Stanley, you're in the money. The bank pulled in $8.9 billion in revenue in the third quarter of 2014. Investment-banking associates make around $230,000 after bonuses.  Like every other company, Morgan Stanley has its feeder schools — institutions with networks that are plugged in, raising the likelihood that you'll land a gig.  To sleuth out which schools lead to Morgan Stanley, we used LinkedIn's college-search tool, which pulls together users' educational history to show trends in career paths.  Here are the rankings of undergraduate schools with the most alumni at Morgan Stanley: 1. Baruch College, City University of New York (482 alumni)  2. New York University (480 alumni) 3. University of Mumbai (383 alumni) 4. Rutgers University, New Brunswick (383 alumni) 5. Columbia University (321 alumni) 6. London School of Economics (300 alumni) 7. University of Maryland, College Park (273 alumni) 8. Cornell University (268 alumni) 9. Harvard University (208 alumni) 10. University of Pennsylvania (199 alumni) 11. Imperial College London (195 alumni) 12. Fordham University (185 alumni) 13. University of Cambridge (182 alumni) 14. Villanova University (180 alumni) 15. University of California, Berkeley (171 alumni) So if you want to break into Morgan Stanley, you may want to go to school in New York.       FREE AppDownload
@chrisvls (Thanks to reader Chris van Löben Sels for reminding us.)      FREE AppDownload
 At one of my first jobs, I got an annual bonus. I don't remember the numbers.  What I do remember, however, is how surprised I was to see how much less I received than the number I was told at my end-of-year review. Thanks, taxes.  I know I'm not the only one mystified by the case of the missing bonus, so I reached out to Certified Public Accountant Lisa Greene-Lewis of TurboTax to find out why end-of-year bonuses seem to be taxed at such a high rate. It comes down to what's called "supplemental income." Although all of your earned dollars are equal at tax time, when bonuses are issued, they're considered supplemental income by the IRS and held to a higher withholding rate. It's probably that withholding you're noticing on a shrunken bonus check. Employers take taxes from your check in one of two ways: The percentage method. This is the method your employer will use if, like I did, you receive your bonus money in a check separate from your paycheck. Your company simply withholds tax at a flat 25%, to keep things easy on their end.  The aggregate method. This is the method your employer will use if your bonus is added on to a regular paycheck. Your employer will withhold tax from your bonus plus your regular earnings according to what you shared with your employer on your W-4. Because you're receiving more money than usual, your employer will withhold more money than usual. In fact, TurboTax provides a handy calculator that figures out the tax withholding on your bonus using either method, so you can brace yourself ahead of time. Greene-Lewis says that in some cases, depending on your income and tax rate, you might actually get some of this money back in the form of a tax refund. If your bonus is only a few hundred bucks, there isn't much you can do about the taxes. If you'll receive a considerable amount of cash, though, you have a few options. "Maybe you can increase your retirement savings," Greene-Lewis suggests, "or you can donate to your favorite charity and get a deduction there. If you own a home, you can maybe prepay your mortgage and get a bigger deduction, or prepay your property taxes." While none of these options allow you to keep more money from your bonus, they do provide tax breaks that could offset the tax on your bonus. GlassdoorYour bonus minus taxes is still more than no bonus at all. If that's the plan for you, and your bonus is big enough to push you into another tax bracket, you can also ask if your company will defer the payment of your bonus to the new year. This comes in handy if you expect your income to decrease in the new year, or if you expect your deductions to increase substantially enough to offset the taxes — for example, if you're planning to buy a house. While you might think, logically, that employees could be better served tax-wise by gradual bonuses paid over a series of paychecks or by a simple raise that tacks on some extra money year-round, Greene-Lewis says that a company's ability to pay bonuses is determined between the time it finishes up its accounting for the year and when it officially closes its books, and those bonuses have to be paid before that year is closed. Because a company doesn't know how much it can afford to pay until the last possible minute, employees end up getting lump sums. But if you're going to get a lump of anything this holiday season, it might as well be cash.      FREE AppDownload
Reuters The firm sees the S&amp;P 500 at 2,250 by the middle of next year, with a slight dip in the second half to end at 2,200. It downgraded emerging markets because they've underperformed 62% of the time in a dollar rally, and the dollar is rallying.  Russia and Saudi Arabia will be the biggest losers to lower crude oil prices.  And the benefit of cheaper gas for US consumers could be cut short, because its forecast to be more expensive than it was before oil collapsed. Here's the entire tweetstorm: 2015 Outlook: "We stay overweight equities raising our mid 2015 target to 2,250 for the S&amp;P 500; modest fall in 2H" pic.twitter.com/wVPok788CK 2015 Regional Outlook: "Overweight Continental Europe &amp; Japan, Benchmark UK &amp; Underweight US and Emerging Markets" pic.twitter.com/CCCbJDUypy 2015 Outlook: "China is the biggest macro risk, in our view. Housing, credit and investment remains a triple bubble" pic.twitter.com/wx1mTwZZug 2015 Outlook: "Commodity bear market to continue to underperform the cycle in 2015" pic.twitter.com/h2SutIf2ar 2015 Outlook: "We forecast S&amp;P 500 EPS growth of 7.9% and 8.2% for 2015 and 2016; 1.5% below consensus" pic.twitter.com/vpZdYSzQiZ  2015 Outlook: "We forecast MSCI EMU EPS growth of 8.2% and 10.9% for 2015 and 2016; well below consensus" pic.twitter.com/Kw7pPcB9KW 2015 US Outlook: "The US underperformed global markets before and after the last 4 rate hikes in dollar terms" pic.twitter.com/H1aRltUkfl 2015 US Outlook: "The US has the lowest operational leverage of all major regions" pic.twitter.com/0wZkiI34yj  2015 US Outlook: "The US is expensive on both P/E and HOLT Price / Book relative" pic.twitter.com/CSwX47jipK 2015 Outlook: "Downgrading Emerging Markets to Underweight; underperforms 62% of the time the USD strengthens" pic.twitter.com/NdLkFPwZYf   2015 Emerging Market Outlook: Emerging market private sector debt is clearly above trend 2015 Europe Outlook: Euro area GDP growth would have to be 4% below global growth for Europe not to outperform pic.twitter.com/W0QflbptZx  2015 Europe Outlook: "Valuations are cheap on measures of normalized earnings (Shiller P/E)" pic.twitter.com/Mu5jNcu0QI 2015 Europe Outlook: "We take Germany back to Overweight; DAX is trading at a 15-year low on P/E vs. Cont. Europe" pic.twitter.com/sz0Hq6QnTk 2015 Europe Outlook: "Spain to Overweight; PMIs are very strong, house prices are rising &amp; exports are impressive" pic.twitter.com/oVoSJcXDGn 2015 Europe Outlook: "UK to Benchmark; main reason is that sterling should fall<U+2015>maybe as low as 1.45 USD/GBP" pic.twitter.com/XOkzILtgoq  2015 Japan Outlook: "Largest Overweight; best earnings revisions globally and margin upside with yen weakness" pic.twitter.com/XNoFSEs8k7  Oil: US non-discretionary spend as percent of disposable income has fallen to a 30-year low pic.twitter.com/imBuGAzF4v Oil: Falling gasoline prices tend to be positive for US consumer confidence; could rise to post crisis highs #Oil pic.twitter.com/JFePgAhRB1 Oil: Central banks to become more dovish<U+2015>lower commodity prices put downward pressure on inflation expectations pic.twitter.com/KGaU1HkLbZ Oil: Among developed markets, the #IMF model Japan as the biggest potential winner; Russia and Saudi Arabia losers pic.twitter.com/PSoNDsoLdr  Oil: A 20% fall in the oil price adds 0.5%-1.3% to the level of real Global GDP after 2 years #Oil #GDP pic.twitter.com/jsl4CSPqRl Oil: European countries have underperformed since the fall in oil price despite being big commodity importers pic.twitter.com/fZBZAxsjJz 2015 Australian Outlook: "We expect Aussie equities to rally to 6,000 on the ASX 200 by Dec 2015" #Australia pic.twitter.com/O9MCgYBs7s 2015 Philippines Outlook: "We have a trading range outlook for PSEi of 6,290-7,170 in 2015 and 6,550-8,300 in 2016" pic.twitter.com/L5lGeAghoo 2015 Taiwan Outlook: "We set our year-end 2015 TAIEX target at 10,000 (9% upside), using 1.8x P/B with ROE of 12.7%" pic.twitter.com/XpxYuxPvgI 2015 Korea Outlook: "We introduce KOSPI year-end target of 2,150, based on earnings growth of 10% YoY" #Korea pic.twitter.com/2qZkxB98ge 2015 Asia Pacific Outlook: "MXASJ year-end 2015 target set at 630; we see ROE inflection point in Non-Japan Asia" China Economics: Export growth slowed to 4.7% vs. 8.0% YoY in Nov; we expect the PBoC to continue to be accommodative pic.twitter.com/tliw4RHYOm China Economics: "We project RMB720 bn new bank lending target &amp; project RMB 1.2 tn in total social financing in Nov" pic.twitter.com/HVyxzAR1jC                             FREE AppDownload

Pace UniversityThe Pace University championship monetary policy team.The Federal Reserve concludes its two-day Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting on Wednesday. The big question everyone is asking  is whether or not the Fed should — or will — drop the phrase "considerable time" from its policy statement. And the members of Pace University's national championship monetary policy team have a simple, one-word answer to this question: "No." "We just don't see a need to change the language," Pace seniors Kelsey Berro, Jordan Jhamb, and Julia Mikhailova told Business Insider in an interview last week.  "Considerable time" is the phrase the Fed has used to describe the period between the end of quantitative easing the first hike in the Fed's benchmark Fed funds rate. Fed Chair Janet Yellen once quantified it as around six months. Back in September, Wall Street economists started predicting that the phrase would be dropped from the Fed's policy statement as the central bank closed in on the end of its quantitative easing program. But the phrase, which the market has taken as implying that interest rate hikes are at least six months away, remained in both the September and October policy statements.  Ahead of Wednesday's statement, which is set for release at 2:00 pm ET and will be accompanied by a press conference from Fed chair Janet Yellen at 2:30 pm ET, Wall Street is again calling for the exclusion of the phrase from the statement.  Wednesday will also see the Fed release its latest Summary of Economic Projections as well as its latest "dot plot," which gives the Fed's outlook on the future course of interest rates.  The Pace team — which beat teams from Princeton and University of Chicago — notes that the phrase "considerable time" might be giving the market unclear signaling. But they warn if the phrase goes away completely the market will be completely directionless. Mike Nudelman/Business InsiderFederal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen.But as the Pace team sees it, "if 'considerable time' is taken out of the statement, then the June 2015 meeting gets targeted," as the first time the Fed would raise rates, which for Pace strips the Fed of the policy flexibility it's been seeking to maintain.  And if the Fed were targeting June 2015 on its own, leaving "considerable time" in the statement would still be appropriate, Pace said.  As part of its championship-winning policy recommendations, Pace suggested the Fed stress data dependency in its forward guidance. Additionally, Pace recommended that the Fed hold a press conference which each policy announcement, as the market currently expects the Fed would only raise interest rates at a meeting that is followed by a press conference from chair Yellen.  Press conference meetings, however, are only held four times a year: in March, June, September, and December.  And as the Pace team said, "You can't be data dependent if you can only start to raise rates four times a year."  According to a November note from JPMorgan's Michael Feroli, the phrase "considerable time" has been "neutered" after the Fed's last statement included language implying that faster progress towards the Fed's labor and inflation goals could bring earlier rate hikes, while slower progress would bring later rate hikes.  LinkedIn / David MericleDavid Mericle In a note to clients ahead of the two-day FOMC meeting which kicks off on Tuesday, Goldman Sachs economists Sven Jari Stehn and David Mericle wrote: "We expect the FOMC to modify its 'considerable time' forward guidance. One possibility would be to state that the committee will be 'patient' in raising the funds rate until it is clear that the economy is on the path to achieving the FOMC’s goals." Stehn and Mericle surmise that the Fed's reformulated guidance could take its lead from Boston Fed President Eric Rosengren's recent formulation: "Based on its current assessment, the Committee expects to be patient in beginning the normalization of the target range for the federal funds rate until it is clear that the economy is on the path to achieving both the 2 percent inflation target and maximum sustainable employment." Maury Harris at UBS also expects that the Fed will drop the phrase "considerable time" as part of a three-part effort by the Fed to prepare the market for a June 2015 interest rate hike. Harris expects that the Fed will provide a "reasonably upbeat assessment of economic conditions with a focus on the positive impact of declines in energy prices," as well as an updated "dot plot" that continues to imply a June 2015 rate hike and, "likely, a more aggressively consistent path in 2016 as well." As of Monday, data from CME Group shows that the market doesn't give the Fed a greater than 50% chance of raising interest rates until the September 2015 meeting. In an interview with CNBC on Monday, Janus Capital's Bill Gross said in response to a "yes or no" question about whether or not the Fed would raise rates in 2015: "Close."  And so while the focus for this month's meeting is on the Fed's exact language, each meeting gets us closer to the Fed's first rate hike in years. And that will be the real event. FREE AppDownload
Hiring managers spend just six seconds on your resume before they decide on you — this is exactly what they look at. Produced by Matt JohnstonFollow BI Video: On Facebook
   Joel Benjamin Henry Blodget: Let’s jump right in. What the hell happened with the Fire phone? Jeff Bezos: First of all, it’s really early. We’ve had a lot of things we’ve had to iterate on at Amazon. You may remember something called Auctions that didn’t work out very well. Z Shops morphed out of that. Then we launched Marketplace, which became our third-party seller business, which now represents 40% of units sold on Amazon. That’s a great business. If you look at our device portfolio broadly, our hardware team is doing a great job. The Kindle is now on its seventh generation. The Kindle Voyage, the new premium product, is just completely killer. Fire TV, Fire TV Stick — we’re having trouble building enough. Amazon Echo, which we just launched. So there’s a lot of activity going on in our device business. With the phone, I just ask you to stay tuned. HB: What was the mistake with the phone? Or are you saying there is no mistake? Jeff: I think it takes more time to analyze something like that. Again, one of my jobs is to encourage people to be bold. It’s incredibly hard.  Experiments are, by their very nature, prone to failure. A few big successes compensate for dozens and dozens of things that didn’t work. Bold bets — Amazon Web Services, Kindle, Amazon Prime, our third-party seller business — all of those things are examples of bold bets that did work, and they pay for a lot of experiments. What really matters is, companies that don’t continue to experiment, companies that don’t embrace failure, they eventually get in a desperate position where the only thing they can do is a Hail Mary bet at the very end of their corporate existence. Whereas companies that are making bets all along, even big bets, but not bet-the-company bets, prevail. I don’t believe in bet-the-company bets. That’s when you’re desperate. That’s the last thing you can do. HB: We should stay tuned for an evolution of the phone. For how long? JB: Who knows? Ask me in some number of years.      Skye Gould JB: Yes. We do a lot of unusual things there. We don’t meet with our biggest investors. We meet with investors who have low portfolio turnover. Many investment funds have very high portfolio turnover. They’re not really investors — they’re traders. There’s nothing wrong with that: It’s just a different thing. Where you are going to spend your time and your energy is one of the most important decisions you get to make in life. We all have a limited amount of time, and where you spend it and how you spend it is just an incredibly levered way to think about the world. If you’re going to spend time explaining the company, you should do it with people who are long-term investors, rather than traders. That’s our point of view. HB: How dependent is Amazon on you these days? You famously had a terrifying experience in a helicopter. And last year you had a terrifying experience in the Galapagos. JB: The kidney stone was just painful — I don’t recommend that. Stay hydrated ... Anyway, my opinion is that I can do some things at Amazon that would be hard for other people to do, only because of my history with the company. As the company has grown, of course my job has changed very much. My main job today: I work hard at helping to maintain the culture. A culture of high standards of operational excellence, of inventiveness, of willingness to fail, willingness to make bold experiments. I’m the counterbalance to the institutional "no" who can say "yes." I’m not going to be here forever. Many of the traits that make Amazon unusual are now deeply ingrained in the culture. In fact, if I wanted to change them, I couldn’t. The cultures are self-reinforcing, and that’s a good thing. We sometimes have people come to the company and they find Amazon very boring, because we don’t have enough competitive zeal. With annual planning processes, some companies literally start with, "Who are our three biggest enemies? Here’s how we’re going to hold them at bay or defeat them." We don’t have such a list at Amazon. It’s not how our annual planning process works. The Smoking GunCLOSE CALL: Jeff Bezos was a passenger when this helicopter went down in a remote area of Texas in 2003. He escaped without serious injury. I still run into work, by the way. I took my family on a vacation to France. My wife’s whole family — there are about 20 of us. We had an unbelievably good time. Great food, everything. We were there for a week. I got back to Seattle, and I ran into the office. I'm having so much fun. HB: Is there a succession plan? JB: Yeah, there is a succession plan for me, and for all of our senior executives. HB: There is somebody who would take over? JB: Yes, absolutely. HB: Who? JB: Secret. HB: Let's turn to Hachette. You just had a very famously public bitter fight with them over the price at which you were allowed to sell their books. First of all, were you surprised with the amount of animosity that was directed at Amazon?  JB: My view is that in this incident and actually in our entire history, I think we have been treated extraordinarily well by the press and the media — certainly by customers. I have no complaints. I think we have been treated way above average over time and and I’m grateful for that. Retailers negotiating and fighting with suppliers is not a new phenomenon. Rarely does it break through into a public fight and mostly it's not. It’s an essential job of any retailer to negotiate hard on behalf of customers. It's what we do. HB: If there was no negotiation, and you could dictate to everybody exactly what the terms were going to be, what would the future be for authors? JB: The most important thing to observe is that books don’t just compete against books. Books compete against people reading blogs and news articles and playing video games and watching TV and going to see movies.Books are the competitive set for leisure time. It takes many hours to read a book. It’s a big commitment. If you narrow your field of view and only think about books competing against books, you make really bad decisions. What we really have to do, if we want a healthy culture of long-form reading, is to make books more accessible. Part of that is making them less expensive. Books, in my view, are too expensive. Thirty dollars for a book is too expensive. If I'm only competing against other $30 books, then you don’t get there. If you realize that you’re really competing against Candy Crush and everything else, then you start to say, “Gosh, maybe we should really work on reducing friction on long-form reading." That’s what Kindle has been about from the very beginning. In the internet era, almost all of the tools for reading have been reducing the friction of short-form reading. The internet is perfect for delivering three paragraphs to your smartphone. The Kindle is trying to reduce friction for reading a whole book. It’s working. The vision for Kindle is every book, every imprint, in any language, all available in 60 seconds. That’s a multi-decade vision. We’ve been working on it for a decade now, and we’ve made huge progress. We’re making books easier to get, more affordable, more accessible. It’s a fantastic mission. The Kindle team is very dedicated to it, and they’re doing a great job. You are getting more reading. HB: Which sounds great. Until it comes to the author who wants to write a book but can’t quit their job unless they have the nice advance from the big, rich publisher who you are quietly demolishing. JB: No, but the facts are wrong. Publishers are having unparalleled profitability, and the book industry is in better shape than it ever has been, and it’s because of e-books. The Kindle team deserves a significant amount of credit for that, because they were early, they got ahead of it. There’s been very little piracy in e-books, unlike other digital media. This is a good-news story for publishers and for authors. It’s very difficult for incumbents who have a sweet thing to accept change. It’s just very difficult. It’s very easy, but almost always incorrect, to glamorize the past. It’s easy to do. We all have these fake memories of how great things used to be. Right, before penicillin things were awesome. There are exceptions. But mostly things have gotten better, and we live in a world where I hope things continue to get better. Surely making reading more affordable is not going to make authors less money. Making reading more affordable is going to make authors more money. Skye Gould JB: Yes. HB: Any changed outlook on life? JB: No, not really. I’m still dancing into the office. I love my life. I have four kids. My wife still claims to still like me. I don’t question her aggressively on that. I do the dishes every night, and I can see that actually makes her like me. It’s a very odd thing. HB: I do that, too. JB: I’m pretty convinced. It’s like the sexiest thing I do. [Laughter] HB: There was a book written about you recently, on Amazon. ["The Everything Store" by Brad Stone.] Have you read it? JB: Yes, I read it. HB: And? Jeff: I’m not going to say many things, but I’ll say the first half of the book does an extraordinarily good job of capturing the culture of Amazon in the early days. Very, very good. I would also say that I get way too much credit in the book. There are a lot of people who have played huge roles in Amazon’s history, and they’re almost completely left out, or just barely mentioned. Maybe someday I’ll write that book and make sure that those people get their credit. HB: Your wife reacted to the book with a long defense on Amazon as a comment — incredibly well written — and in it she said, “This is not my husband.” Who is right? It sucks to have stuff written about you. JB: You don’t think I’m going to sit up here on stage and tell you my wife is wrong. HB: Here we go. JB: Henry, that’s … I don’t even know where you’re going. HB: What was she objecting to? JB: She was there in the early days. You’ve been a public figure, and you still are, but you had more public figureness in your earlier stock-analyst days. I’ve been a public figure. You get used to everything being wrong about you. Anytime you think you know a public figure from their media … You really don’t. I’ve gotten to know several public figures. You can’t tell that Bill Gates is an amazing dad. I know that. It’s very hard. Other people, like my wife, she doesn't have so much experience with this. I’m like, “It doesn’t matter.” HB: Fair enough. What are you like as a dad? JB: Me? Let’s see ...  HB: Boring? Work all the time? JB: No. I have three boys and a girl. The oldest is 14. He was the last person in his class to get a smartphone. He reminded me of this frequently. When the second-to-last person got a smartphone, he sent an email message to all of his classmates that said, “Then there was one.” All of my kids are very, very different. It’s pretty amazing. We spend a lot of time travelling, though I don’t travel very much for work. One of the reasons I do so little of what I’m doing here today, on stage, is that I like to be at home. I like to be in the office. I feel disconnected from the office if I’m traveling a lot. I travel less than 20% of the time, maybe less than 10% of the time. I organize my life that way, because it’s a personal preference. I told our most senior executives at Amazon: "Because you’re a senior executive, you have more control over your environment, and you should have less stress." If senior executives are stressed out, I tell them, “Look, you shouldn’t be stressed out. Figure out what's causing it. Bring someone on your team who is good at that or who likes doing it, and have them shore you up in that regard.” Amazon.com via Academy of AchievementJeff Bezos, age 5, with his grandfather, Lawrence Preston Gise, on the ranch at Cotulla, Texas, in 1969. "We did everything together, just the two of us," Bezos has said of his grandfather. "We would fix windmills and repair fences and work the cattle, vaccinate them and so on. It really was an incredible experience. I think you learn a lot on a ranch in the middle of nowhere. And one of the things I think I learned from my grandfather was a kind of self-reliance." Her dad had to fight to keep her in high school. Having a pregnant mother in high school in the 1960s in Albuquerque, New Mexico, that's a difficult situation. My dad was hardworking. He worked for Exxon for 33 years. In life, we get a lot of rolls of the dice. One of the big rolls of the dice is who are your early role models, so I try to do that for my kids. HB: Drones. You had this amazing "commercial" on "60 Minutes" last year, about this fantastic future when drones are going to fly out and bring me my package, and it’s going to be right there. Immediately, everybody in the country, and probably around the world, was saying, “Great — when?” JB: That’s a difficult question to answer. Technology is not going to be the long pole. The long pole is going to be regulatory. I just went and met with the primary team and saw the 10th- or 11th-generation drone flying around in the cage. It’s truly remarkable. It’s not just the physical airframe and electric motors and so on. The most interesting part of this is the autopilot and the guidance and control and the machine vision systems that make it all work. As for when, though, that is very difficult to predict. I'd bet you the ratio of lawyers to engineers on the primary team is probably the highest at Amazon. HB: Is this a situation where everyone else in the world except Americans is going to get drone deliveries? JB: I think it is sad but possible that the US could be late. It’s highly likely that other countries will do it first. I may be too skeptical. I hope I’m wrong. HB: In addition to everything else we’ve talked about, you make rockets. You want to go into space. This is a proclivity that you share with fellow billionaires such as Elon Musk and Richard Branson. First of all, what is it about space that captivates you? Second, what are you doing that’s different? Third, just talk about how hard it is when you saw Richard have an accident that has set everybody back a long time. Talk about space. What’s the vision there? Wikimedia CommonsNeil Armstrong was mission commander of Apollo 11 when he landed on the moon in July 1969. Bezos has never forgotten it. I think it’s probably a survival skill that we’re curious and like to explore. Our ancestors, who were incurious and failed to explore, probably didn’t live as long as the ones who were looking over the next mountain range to see if there were more sources of food and better climates and so on and so on. We are really evolved to be pioneers. For good reason. New worlds have a way of — you can’t predict how or why or when — but new worlds have a way of saving old worlds. That’s how it should be. We need the frontier. We need the people moving out into space. My vision is, I want to see millions of people living and working in space. I think it’s important. I also just love it. I love change. I love technology. I love the engineers we have. They’re brilliant. We have about 350 people there. We’re building a vertical takeoff, vertical landing vehicle. It takes off like a regular rocket, and it lands on its tail like a Buck Rogers rocket. The initial mission is space tourism. We’re also designing an orbital vehicle. We just won a contract to provide the new engines for the new version of the Atlas 5, which is the most successful launch vehicle in history. That’s a Boeing-Lockheed joint venture. That vehicle uses Russian engines, and because of all the things that are happening in Ukraine and so on, that supply of engines has become less certain, so they want to switch away from a Russian-made engine and they chose [us] to provide that engine. It’s a very exciting endeavor. Great team. They’re just doing a wonderful job, and it’s fun. HB: When are you going? JB: I don’t know. When we’re ready. I like our architecture. The vehicle can fly autonomously. Throughout the entire test program, it flies all by itself and comes and lands all by itself, so we don’t need test pilots, which is good during the development phase. The crew capsule uses a full-envelope escape architecture. If you go back in time, all rockets had escape systems, Apollo and Soyuz. The space shuttle was really the first human-rated vehicle not to have an escape system. That was a mistake. It needed an escape system. Our vehicle has a full-envelope escape system. I like the architecture we’re building. I’m excited about it, but this is not a business where you can rush things or cut corners. Our motto is, "Gradatim Ferociter." It stands for step-by-step ferociously. One step a time. HB: Thanks, Jeff. It's a privilege and a pleasure to talk to you.  NOW WATCH THE FULL INTERVIEW: It includes additional discussion of the pay and perks of Amazon employees and why Jeff Bezos bought The Washington Post:        Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through hispersonal investment company Bezos Expeditions.
Men aren't socially conditioned to care about their skin, but they really should if they'd like to keep it looking healthy and clear. The world of skin maintenance isn't so hard, either. It will just require a few simple changes to your daily routine to keep your outermost layer in great condition for decades to come. These are the three ways men can take better care of their skin. Soap is bad for your skin. Really bad. The basicity of both liquid and bar soap dries your skin out and leaves it rough and raw. Instead, when you wash your face daily you should use a non-soap cleanser like Cetaphil Daily Facial Cleanser. It will rinse all the excess oils off your face without drying your skin out. It's also not as irritating to your skin since it doesn't have any fragrances or dyes. If you outright insist on using soap, look for one with moisturizers in the formula. Unless your father was a master barber, he probably didn't teach you the best way to shave your face (or worse, he advised you to use an electric shaver). Here's the right way to do it: First, make sure you shave after washing your face. This will stop any bacteria lying on your face from getting into any freshly opened pores, which can cause irritation or acne. Apply your normal shaving cream. Then, shave with the grain of your beard. Use short strokes and don't go over any areas more than once. Apply only a little pressure as you shave, letting the razor do most of the work for you. This will minimize your chances of ingrown hairs and reduce irritation. After each pass, rinse the razor's blade with hot water before you stroke again. After you're done, make sure you rinse your face with cold water to close your pores. And when it comes to razors, skip those multi-bladed razor offerings. Any razor with more than one or two blades will only end up irritating your face. After you're done shaving, apply a soothing aftershave balm, like Dove Men's Hydrate Post Shave Balm. It's important to note, however, that many things called "aftershave" are frequently alcohol-based, which will dry out skin. You want something that will moisturize or contains aloe vera if you commonly get razor burn.  Adding a moisturizing lotion, like Neutrogena For Men Facial Moisturizer, to your routine can help restore moisture to your skin, making it look healthier in the short term and protect you against wrinkles. Many men forget that shaving dries out their skin. Apply your moisturizer after shaving for maximum effect.  FREE AppDownload
Oil! It's been a wild day for oil futures amid global financial turbulence spurred by a further collapse in the Russian ruble.  After West Texas Intermediate crude futures cracked $54 for the first time in five years this morning, oil made a huge comeback, breaking above $57 a barrel.  But near 1:30 p.m. Eastern time, WTI was back near $55.50, roughly unchanged over the last day.  US stocks have also been volatile, with the Dow gaining as much as 235 points after opening down about 100 points. Near 12:30 pm Eastern time, the Dow was up 140.  The big story in the market, however, remains the price of crude oil, which has been getting smashed in the last few months and has seen losses accelerate in the last couple of weeks. And while today isn't the first time crude has bounced higher before returning lower, those closely watching the market are looking for any signs of a bottom. But as Jeff Gundlach said last week, "Oil will find a bottom when it starts going up." FinViz      FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Platiau Near 1:15 pm ET, the Dow was up just 48 points, the S&amp;P 500 was up just 4 points, and the Nasdaq was in negative territory, down 7 points. Earlier, stocks staged a huge rally off their lows, with the Dow adding as much as 235 points at one point. The huge reversal came after the indexes opened in the red amid turbulence in global markets sparked by the collapse in the Russian ruble.  The last couple days have seen stocks weaken significantly in the afternoon, and so after a furious rally earlier in the day, it will be interesting to see if the market can hold its gains together.  Here's a super-quick overview of all the crazy things that are happening in markets right now. This post will be updated as the market story changes throughout the day.    FREE AppDownload
Foreign-exchange trading platform FXCM has put an end to shorting the ruble for today. In a statement to Business Insider, FXCM said: "Please be advised that that most Western Banks have stopped pricing USD/RUB. As such, FXCM can no longer offer this instrument to our clients and will begin closing any existing client trades in USD/RUB effective at Noon EST today, December 16th, 2014." This announcement was first reported by ZeroHedge. And so the long-US-dollar-short-Russian-ruble trade that sent the ruble to as low as 80 against the dollar earlier this morning can no longer be traded through FXCM, which reported more than 590,000 average daily trades from retail customers in November.  And FXCM's reason is that most everybody else has stopped offering that trade, too.  Near noon, the ruble was pulling back some of its losses, trading at around 68 to the dollar. US stocks and oil, meanwhile, were surging to their highs of the day.  Bloomberg.comThe ruble has pulled back some of its losses.      FREE AppDownload
 Former BlackRock Managing Director Jonathan Paul Burrows has been barred for life from the finance industry for not paying his British train fares, The New York Times reported. Regulators say he "lacks honesty and integrity." The UK's Financial Conduct Authority banned Burrows from taking any senior job in financial services, The Guardian reported, stating, "His conduct fell short of the standards we expect." Each morning he'd reportedly board a commuter train in a small town in another county with no ticket barriers, and only pay the London Underground fee when he got into the city. He paid £7.20 ($11.34) a day instead of £21.50 ($33.88), and managed to save himself nearly £43,000 ($67,236) over a number of years, according to The Guardian. It worked out pretty well for him until Nov. 19, 2013, when he was caught leaving the train station in London without a ticket. That's when authorities realized he hadn't bought a season's pass since 2009. He repaid the £43,000 he owed Southeastern Railways, which was calculated on a single-fare basis (if he'd bought season's passes it would have cost him some £20,000 less). But that snafu caught the attention of the FCA, which then began its own investigation. Initially, Burrows was suspended at BlackRock; later he resigned. Now he's banned from ever working in financial services again. “While I respect the F.C.A.’s decision today ... I also regret it, coming as it did after a 20-year career in the City that was without blemish," the NYT reported Burrows as saying. Several years ago, Burrows was reportedly in the process of building a £2.73 million ($4,268,683) home in the south of England, according to the New York Times.       FREE AppDownload
Private equity giant Carlyle Group released its annual holiday message Monday night and it's absolutely hilarious. It features co-chief executive David Rubenstein donning a bright red pair of Beats By Dre headphones and rapping about finance, while chairman Daniel D’Aniello bops his head and drops him a beat. Here's Rubenstein's masterpiece: It takes a lot of brains to do what we do, Looking for a way to make some dough for you. Energy, commodity, we do it all, So pick up the phone and give us a call. Corporate mezzanine, private equity, Carlyle Group is the place to be. We’re global, we’re mobile, we’re aiming to please. Only goal in mind: serve the LPs. Carlyle made a hefty profit on its investment in rapper Dr. Dre's Beats Electronics this year, when Apple bought the company for $3 billion. Last year, Carlyle had paid some $500 million for a minority stake in the electronics company, The New York Times reported. "Dr. Dre is an incredible businessman and artist, and he even inspired me to write my own rap," says Rubenstein in the video, before launching into verse. GO WATCH IT RIGHT NOW&gt;&gt; FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Pavel Golovkin Part of Russia's pain is due to dramatically declining oil prices. And part of it is due to international sanctions against the country. This cheese story is about the latter part. Back when the EU, Australia, Norway, Canada, and the US placed economic sanctions on Russia, Russia responded by banning a bunch of imports from all of them. That ban included a lot of food — meat, dairy, vegetables, and so on. Unfortunately, people really like food — especially cheese. So in Russia, they've devised ways to circumvent this inconvenient ban when it comes to the good stuff. Corner stores have become black-market cheese dealers. "A sort of speakeasy scene for French and Italian cheeses evolved which was akin to buying drugs from 1980s bodegas in Brooklyn," one Moscow banker told Business Insider. "First, you walk into the bodega slowly, trying to wipe any suspicious look from your face. Then you pretend to look around the shelves for a while until the clerk recognizes you, at which point you and the clerk make eye contact and establish that metaphysical connection that signifies to both of you 'I'm here to cop an ounce.' You wait until there are no customers around, approach the clerk. He takes you to the back room, shows you the goods, you haggle over the price, shove the bag in your pocket, hand over the cash and bounce. Except here you're leaving the store with a ball of fresh Italian mozzarella..." Or some amazing camembert, or brie ... You get the picture. All this suffering, however, isn't necessarily making Russians dislike Putin. On the contrary, says our source, they're buying Putin's message that the country's economic woes can be blamed on a Western plot to hurt Russia. "If you look at the way the elite that emerged from the '90s made their money, you'll realize that they essentially capitalized on ignorance by cheaply scooping up newly-privatized equity from an uneducated public," the banker said. "Physical certificates of stock were often exchanged on the street for bottles of vodka and that's not an exaggeration. In that sense, Russians are much less inclined to side with financial logic and more inclined to buy Mr. Putin's emotional message." As long as that message remains, Russians will stay on Putin's side.  FREE AppDownload
Cindy Hughes/ShutterstockNo matter what season it is, golfers always have the game on their mind.  Fuel your golfer's obsession this holiday season with the with great golf gadgets and gifts.  From personalized accessories to golf simulators, here are 13 great gifts any golfer would love. FREE AppDownload
 Columbia University President Lee C. Bollinger is the highest-paid president in the Ivy League, according to data compiled by The Chronicle of Higher Education. Bollinger made $3,389,917 in 2012, the most recent year that financial documents are available for nonprofit institutions. The highest-paid college president in the country, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute President Shirley Ann Jackson, made more than $7 million that year, according to The Chronicle. Student newspaper The Columbia Daily Spectator has a great breakdown of how Bollinger made his more-than-$3,000,000 in 2012, including his $1,012,707 base salary. This year, The Chronicle changed its methodology to include only direct payments to the college presidents — such as their base salary, bonus, nontaxable benefits, and other reportable compensation. Because of the nature of nonprofit financial reports, these numbers are from a few years ago and paint a very different portrait of Ivy League leadership than the current one. Half of the names listed below are no longer president of their respective colleges — we've marked each former president with an asterisk. Here are the presidents in the Ivy League ranked by salary, via The Chronicle:    FREE AppDownload
Usually on the underside of a belt or inside a leather good, the leather quality will be stamped one of three things: genuine leather, top-grain leather, or full-grain leather. But what exactly do these mean? When you're buying your fancy leather briefcase, jacket, or shoes, you should know exactly what to look for in your leather. Genuine leather doesn't just mean that the product is made of real leather (which it is), but it also means it is the lowest quality of all products made out of real leather.  Genuine leather generally doesn't last as long or look as nice as higher-quality leather. You'll typically find it in belts from mall stores, shoes from lower-priced department stores, and bags or other goods in the lower-leather price range. Goods marked as genuine leather will be several layers of low quality leather bonded together with glue and then painted to look like a better-quality leather. It's what is left over when the other, higher grades are stripped away. This grade of leather is acceptable if you're just buying something cheaply and don't care too much about its quality. It won't last very long, so it probably shouldn't be something you use every day. Top-grain leather is the grade of leather you'll find in "fine" leather goods and is the middle-of-the-road quality of leather. It's used in the vast majority of purses for women as well as small leather goods for men like wallets that are sold by well-known designer brands. It's made by splitting a piece of full-grain leather and sanding away any imperfections in the hide and stamping a fake grain on it. Usually, it's then treated and colored to provide a completely uniform look.  The finished product ends up being a bit plastic-y, and not nearly as durable as the best quality leather — full grain. It will not age well with use, and will end up looking old and worn after a time. This finish of leather is great, however, if you don't care as much about durability and more about the color of your leather item, or its resistance to stain. Flickr/Simon CarrA bag by Saddleback Leather Company made of full grain leather.Full-grain leather takes the entire grain of hide, with all the imperfections and inherent toughness of the material.  It's often used for heavy-duty leather items, like weapon holsters and utility belts. But it can also be used (with great success) for dress belts, briefcases, dress shoes, work boots, and numerous other leather goods. This type of leather is naturally marked with imperfections from the animal, like a brand or a scar, but products from pricier companies won't use these flawed hides. Full-grain is hard-as-nails leather that will develop a rich patina as it ages, looking more and more beautiful as you use it. It's widely recognized as the best and highest-quality leather money can buy. Often much more expensive, full-grain pays dividends with its durability. If you invest in an item made with full-grain leather, you will probably have that item for the rest of your life if you take care of it properly. If you can you should avoid leathers like bonded leather (scraps of leather glued together to form one piece), patent leather (leather treated with a glossy plastic finish), and corrected grain leather (lower quality leather printed with a fake grain).  FREE AppDownload
 Falling oil prices are crushing a golden child of Latin America, Colombia. The Colombian peso dipped to its lowest level since 2009 last week. It traded at 2413.75 to the US dollar last Thursday morning after a 5.6% depreciation over a five-day period, Businessweek reported. Apart from Russia's ruble, Colombia's peso is the only major currency to weaken more than 20% since midyear. Oil exports are the number-one source of foreign exchange for Colombia, which is the fourth-largest oil producer in the region. As investors lose interest in oil projects there, it could lead to a slump in foreign direct investment or cause capital flight on expectations of higher interest rates to come, Reuters reported. The state-run oil company, Ecopetrol SA, is already struggling; it has cut its 2015 output target by 7.2%. Ecopetrol now plans to produce 760,000 barrels of oil per day, down from previous expectations of 1 million barrels per day, while investment spending will be down 26% from this year, the report said. Meanwhile, the country's trade deficit grew to a thundering $449.6 million in September, up from $66.2 million in the same period last year. At 4.4% of GDP in the first half of 2014, the deficit is unlikely to meet the government's 2.4% target in 2015. Colombia's GDP is growing. Growth expanded 4.2% in the third quarter, up 0.6% from the previous quarter. John Vizcaino/ReutersFinance Minister Mauricio Cardenas has welcomed currency depreciation in the past. But the growth rate is still short of President Juan Manuel Santos' forecast of 4.3-4.5% for next year. Finance Minister Mauricio Cardenas says the weaker currency could help lessen the impact of falling oil revenue by making exports in other industries, like agriculture and manufacturing, more attractive. Plans are likely underway to slow the currency's depreciation. In a radio interview on Friday, Cardenas said he's starting to get worried. "The current exchange rate is a rate that is desirable, healthy," he said. "But the process of devaluation has been very accelerated, and we have to observe this constantly, which is something we do alongside the central bank, to ensure that there aren’t big leaps and that absolutely nothing occurs which could generate negative effects." That could mean the central bank will begin making changes in its upcoming policy meeting on Friday. One system the bank has used to curb volatility in the past involved buying and selling dollars in auctions when the currency started to move off track, according to Businessweek. In a country emerging from 50 years of civil conflict and in the midst of negotiating a long-term peace agreement, any moves towards stability and away from volatility would be welcome.      FREE AppDownload
And now gold is getting in the mix. In morning trade on Tuesday, amid a turbulent day in global markets, the price of gold was tumbling. Near 11 a.m. ET, gold was down to about $1,188 an ounce, about $30 an ounce lower than it was earlier Tuesday morning. Among the other big decliners Tuesday was the Russian ruble, collapsing for the second day in a row to as low as 79 against the US dollar. This latest collapse in the ruble comes after the Russian central bank on Monday night unexpectedly raised interest rates by 6.5%.  Oil was also tumbling, with WTI crude falling below $54 a barrel and Brent crude falling below $59.  And so gold's tumble was on a bit of a delay relative to some other volatile assets, but better late than never. FinViz   FREE AppDownload
 Tesla's stock fell below $200 per share in trading on Tuesday. The stock recovered and is back at $202, down only marginally from where it opened. Shares dropped as low at $195, in morning trading. It was the first time since June that Tesla traded below $200.  The last time shares closed below $200 was in May. In the last few months, though, Tesla has been getting hammered. It hit a trading peak of $291 on Sept. 4. If its slide continues, the stock will have shed about 47% since peaking. Tesla stock swooned in late September, but recovered in early October when CEO Elon Musk announced the arrival of an all-wheel-drive version of the company's Model S sedan, the "D." The recent decline, however, has seen Tesla plunge even lower than its September nadir.  The prevailing theory to explain all this is that as the price of oil collapses, Tesla's all-electric vehicles become less appealing — so it's more difficult to defend a stock that's up over 1000% since the company's 2010 IPO.  There's far-from-universal agreement on this point — Tesla has admitted that it may not be able to meet its delivery targets for 2014, has pushed back the schedule for its new Model X SUV to late 2015, and is operating in a very capital-intensive industry. So there are other good reasons for investors to turn bearish on the stock. investing.com, Business InsiderCheap, cheap, cheap. That said, if the stock market is a mechanism predicting the future, then it's fairly obvious why Tesla is tanking. Cheap oil is a clear argument against electric cars, at least in the short term. Cheap oil is also an argument against hybrids and fuel-cell cars and anything that doesn't run on gas. This doesn't mean that Tesla will go away — far from it. But it does mean that the stock could fall farther in 2014 and early 2015.  Yahoo FinanceMoving down.       FREE AppDownload
The Russian banking system is taking a big hit by a combination of a shock rate hike and the collapsing ruble. Shares in Russia's two largest banking groups, Sberbank and VTB, fell on Tuesday amid rumours that the bank had stopped lending to customers. BloombergSberbank share price.Rumours abound that the lenders had stopped issuing new loans to customers across the country as the ruble collapse continued, falling almost 13% against the dollar at the time of writing. Russian banks were also caught out by the central bank's decision to raise interest rates by 650 basis points overnight from 10.5% to 17%. Both Sberbank and VTB issued statements denying the rumours. Sberbank said "despite the increased volatility in financial markets and increasing the emergency key rate of the Central Bank, Sberbank continues lending to customers - both individuals and companies". Meanwhile, VTB said that although its business was operating normally "a significant increase in the rate of the Central Bank has created a need to reassess the conditions of work with corporate clients than is now engaged in the bank". Despite the banks' denials both of the companies' shares plummeted by 13% as fears grow about the health of Russia's banking system. Elsewhere, Gazeta.ru claims that there is a widespread suspension of currency conversion activities by banks with several large banks reporting they are reluctant to exchange at these levels because "a euro should not cost 100 rubles". Wells FargoThe news suggests that Russia's banking system is struggling to adapt to the abrupt changes in financial conditions in the country. This will be of particular concern to the Russian authorities, and the central bank in particular, as it comes in a month where Russia's private sector is due to repay some $35 billion in foreign-currency loans. A good chunk of that is owed by Russia's banking sector. This is a problem as, unlike the country's commodity exporters that can sell their products in dollars and euros, most of the banks' business is conducted in local currency. That means that ruble falls increase the cost of repayments as they have to convert ruble revenues back into foreign currencies. What does this mean? Well the Russian central bank is moving to be as accommodate as it can be. Along with its interest rate hike it announced that it had increased the maximum volume of foreign currency it provides to Russian banks through its foreign-exchange repurchase agreement auctions for 28 days from $1.5 billion to $5 billion. It has also lowered the interest rate it charges on the currency it gives to banks from 1.5% above the London Interbank Offered Rate (Libor) — the benchmark interest rate at which banks lend to one another — to 0.5% above Libor. A lower interest rate should make it less expensive for banks to borrow from the central bank and therefore more appealing. However, there are rumours that the Russian banking system is running low on the collateral — high quality loans and other financial securities — that they have to pledge to the central bank to access that money. As a nod to this, Elvira Nabiullina, head of the Russian central bank, announced last week that "the Bank of Russia plans to consider the introduction of foreign currency lending on the security of non-marketable assets". That is, the central bank could choose to accept lower quality assets in exchange for cash — effectively allowing the state to take on more risk on the banks' behalf. If that wasn't sufficient to underline how serious this problem is, on Tuesday economic development minister Alexei Ulyukayev announced the government's plan to stabilise the ruble that would include "increasing the provision of foreign currency liquidity to banks in Russia". The question now is whether the central bank and the government have done enough to prevent a loss of confidence in the currency that could quickly become a danger to the banking system (potentially in the form of a bank run where people rush to withdraw their savings, for example). After two days of double digit falls in the ruble, the signs don't look promising. FREE AppDownload
Mark Cuban spoke with Henry Blodget at Business Insider's IGNITION 2014. He told us how having a family has changed his outlook on life. Edited by Devan Joseph. Special thanks to Justin Gmoser and Sam Rega. Follow BI Video: On Facebook IGNITION 2014 Video Coverage
T. Boone Pickens is an energy mogul who has achieved many wins throughout his career. This is how he defines the word "success." Produced by Justin Gmoser; Reporter: Julia La Roche.  Follow BI Video: On Twitter  
Stack Commerce Touchscreen gloves used to be a novelty accessory, but now that smartphones are the norm, gloves that work with them should be, too. There are a lot of options out there, so we've rounded up a few that will help your hands stay warm while texting this winter.   AmazonWirecutter picked this pair of Glider Gloves ($15-$30 depending on size) last winter as their favorite. They call it "a double-layered knit glove that will keep you warm in below-freezing temperatures; and fits snugly enough to conform to a range of finger sizes and provide reliably accurate screen taps." Price: $15.00-$26.50   AmazonThis pair by Outdoor Research won over some reviewers on Amazon for their tight fit, which is important if you want dexterity for your phone, but probably won't win you any awards in the looks category. Price: $22.95-$45.95 AmazonTimberland has a couple of solid options, including a thicker pair if warmth is more of your priority. Some reviewers complained that the touchscreen portion doesn't extend to the tips of the fingers, so be warned if that's how you typically navigate your phone. Price: $29.99 with Free Shipping Stack CommerceAnd finally, with the help of our friends at Stack Commerce, we got a deal on these gloves from TRNDlabs. They normally cost $49, but we have them here for $19. They've got rubber grips on the palm to make sure you're not going to drop your phone while holding it. Get 61% off TRNDlabs Knitted Touchscreen Gloves here ($19).   If you already have a pair of gloves that you love, you can always go the DIY route. Pick up some conductive thread on Amazon and put a few stitches into your existing pair. $10 will get you enough thread for around 20 finger tips. Warning: it probably won't look as nice as buying a pair, and we don't advocate doing this with leather. AmazonConductive Thread   Disclosure: This post is brought to you by Business Insider's Insider Picks team. We aim to highlight products and services you might find interesting, and if you buy them, we may get a small share of the revenue from the sale. This is not an advertiser sponsored post and we operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback.Have something you think we should know about? Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com. FREE AppDownload
Mathieu Belanger/Reuters  The big near-term issue for the economy is capital flight, or money leaving the country. And things don't look good for Russia on that front. According to a Morgan Stanley note from last week, the short-term fundamentals are looking just awful for the currency.  December is a peak month for budget spending, which means more RUB liquidity available amidst FX pressure. January in turn is a month of seasonally high capital outflows, which are unlikely to be compensated by export revenues this time with oil prices down 40%Y. Moreover, there are high external debt repayments due in December and February (US$33 billion and US$18 billion). In other words, the timing of the currency collapse couldn't be worse. Wells Fargo economists say a Russian default is unlikely. Wells Fargo "About two-thirds of its debt is denominated in Russian rubles, with most of the remainder denominated in US dollars. Does the sharp rise in long-term ruble-denominated debt yields that is shown in Figure 2 really represent increased risk of default? After all, the Russian central bank could conceivably create an unlimited supply of rubles to pay off creditors. That is, Russian authorities could eventually roll over maturing debt by selling new bonds to the Russian central bank." Wells Fargo Despite the dire outlook for capital flight in the short-term, a Russian default does not seem to be on the horizon.   FREE AppDownload
For the first time, a laser weapon system (LaWS) was successfully operated aboard a US Navy ship. A demonstration of LaWS took place in November aboard the USS Ponce while it was deployed to the Arabian Gulf. It struck targets aboard a small speeding boat, shot down an unmanned drone and destroyed other moving targets. Produced by Alex Kuzoian. Video courtesy of the Associated Press.  Follow BI Video: On YouTube
 The price of oil has fallen by half since this summer. The Russian ruble has collapsed. A bored, belligerent, and megalomaniacal dictator with a massive military is on the march ... So, what will happen next? Eurasia Group's Ian Bremmer says Vladimir Putin's response to this escalating crisis is likely to be "geopolitical," which doesn't sound comforting. So what's in store for global markets and economies? Will there be cascading ripple effects like those that followed the Russian crisis in the late 1990s? Or, for that matter, the early stages of the global financial crisis seven years ago? We reached out to one of the smartest market observers we know, economist and hedge-fund manager Mark Dow of Dow Global Advisors for some thoughts. Here's our summary of his current thinking: * The fate of Russia's economy and banking system will depend on how "levered" the Russian economy is — in other words, how dependent it is on debt and other forms of credit. Mark does not have a good sense of this. (Based on some chatter we heard this morning, Russians are not yet rushing to Russian banks with wheelbarrows to yank out their rubles before they lose all their value, but this day might not be far away.) * Some Russian oligarchs might see their fortunes demolished. * The bigger story for the global economy is the collapse of oil prices, not the collapse of the ruble. The speed of the oil-price crash will cause lots of reflection and re-examination on the part of investors. It will also likely lead to widespread "derisking" — a flight to safe assets like US Treasury bonds. * It is the speed of the oil-price crash that is important, not the magnitude. Rapid crashes like this catch people off-guard. They also make them emotional and scared. * Eventually, when the dust settles, cheaper oil will help stimulate the economy, but not as much as some people think. US consumers do not spend as big a percentage of their incomes on oil-based products as they used to. Here's Mark: I don't have a strong sense for how levered the domestic financial situation is in Russia. My sense is a few oligarchs will get caught out. And Putin will have to struggle to retain his popularity. But this is in no way like 1998. There was a ton of foreign and domestic leverage in the Russian economy then. I think oil is the factor to watch for global markets, not Russia. The falling ruble is something people can and will point to if we continue to sell off, but I think this is really about oil for international markets. There will be dislocations [from the oil crash] for sure. Also, it will help consumers less than people think (oil is a smaller share of household budgets these days), but a net positive. The real problem is the speed of the decline forces people to reexamine their priors, convinced there is something going on they don't see. And in that reexamination they shed risk. Once the dust settles, it will be seen as a net positive. The oil dislocations will come domestically from the paring back of exploration and production. Internationally, from the dependent exporting countries. But the speed factor is what has us so much on edge. The speed of the price change is almost always more important than the level for our psychology. Stay tuned ...      FREE AppDownload
Almost all the historical evidence is now pointing toward an oil price rally over the next three months. That's according to data from EidoSearch, a new tool that projects potential changes in financial data based on how previous similar trends have played out. Here's a longer explanation of what EidoSearch does. Here's that projection graph, for the three months ahead, based on the data for the WTI crude price over the last six months: EidoSearch, Business Insider Almost the whole projection, even the potential downside, suggests that oil prices will rise in the three months ahead. The average return after six months like the period we've just had is 17.3% over the subsequent three months. There are 21 examples of oil price slumps similar to the current one since 1984. That's using a pattern similarity of 0.80 or above. For patterns, zero represents a trend with no similarity at all and one represents exactly the same pattern. The closer the patterns get to one, the more alike the current collapse they are.  Here's the variation in the 21:  EidoSearch, Business Insider There are three examples of a similar oil price slump where the price kept falling. The biggest was in 1993, when prices fell another 9.1% over the next three months. The biggest rise was 124%. It's clear that in almost all of the other examples, oil prices rallied. The average climb suggests that oil prices will rise by 17.3% in the next three months. Of course, this is by no means certain at all: It's just what the pattern of previous slumps suggest. But if oil falls much further in the next three months, that will be without any precedent in modern history.  FREE AppDownload
In 1998, Russia defaulted.  And with the recent collapse in the ruble and the emergency action from Russia's central bank announced late Tuesday, investors are having flashbacks to 1998 and the global emerging market currency crisis that ensued.  But in a note to clients on Tuesday, Kit Juckes at Societe Generale writes that when making comparisons to 1998, "the differences are more important that the similarities." Juckes outlines three main reasons why this time it's different: Here's Juckes' chart of the ruble's recent slide. Société GénéraleRussia real effective exchange rate vs Brazil, Korea. FREE AppDownload
Getty ImagesThis post is sponsored by Lincoln Financial Group.  Travel plans, holiday parties, gift lists, winter coats ... Yes, that means 2014 is coming to an end. As you sit down to reflect on the past year and prepare to ring in 2015, you may feel like ignoring your financial situation for now. But the end of the year is the perfect time to evaluate your spending and prepare for the year ahead. Whether you're checking to see how well you measured up against this year's financial goals or updating your portfolio, here are a few key financial steps you should be sure to check off your list before the new year.   Take a look at your credit card and bank statements from 2014. Did you go out to eat a lot more than you expected? Or maybe you didn't travel as much as you had hoped? Based on that analysis, it's time to set a budget for 2015. Write down your financial goals now — weekly, monthly, quarterly, maybe all three — and do your best to stick to them. Maybe that means opening up a new savings account, or paying down debt and cutting down on frivolous spending. Whatever the case, be sure to post the goals someplace you can see them, so that you can keep yourself in check throughout the year.  Tax season may not be here for another few months, but it's always good to get a head start. Now is the perfect time to start collecting important tax documents and receipts and to meet with your accountant. He or she can offer valuable time-sensitive advice, such as selling stocks to rebalance your portfolio, deferring income, contributing to retirement accounts, or donating to charity for a tax write-off.   Using a Flexible Spending Account to set aside pre-tax dollars for heathcare expenses is a great way to save hundreds of dollars in taxes, but it can also be a way to waste hundreds of dollars if you fail to use it. Unlike Health Spending Accounts, which roll over each year, FSAs have a "use it or lose it" policy. If you've been holding off on buying glasses, getting dental work, or visiting the doctor, now is the time to do it.  A lot can happen in a year: Stocks can go up or down, bonds lose value, and certain assets may outperform others. It's important to reevaluate your investments once or twice a year — whether they're mutual funds, ETFs, individual stocks, or some combination of all three — to be sure your asset allocations reflect your goals and intended risks. Review all of your target investment goals with the help of a financial adviser to stay on track. If you've experienced any life changes such as marriage, divorce, a new baby, or a death in the family, it may be time to update your tax withholding with your company's HR department. By adjusting your number of dependents, you could see a boost (or reduction) in your take-home pay. Talk to your accountant about which withholding works best for your situation.  Donating to charity is a great way to give and receive this holiday season. While you can only deduct a fraction of what you donate, it's still the perfect opportunity to save some money and help those in need. And in many cases it doesn't even require your giving away cash. By donating appreciated securities (stocks, bonds, and mutual funds), you can avoid paying a capital gains tax and still gain a tax deduction. Talk to your financial adviser about the best way to go about this. Just be sure to do it prior to the Dec. 31 deadline.  Look over your premiums for all your insurance coverage, including health, auto, home and even life insurance. Maybe you're considering getting surgery next year and could use a bump in coverage. Or you've noticed you could be paying less in car insurance if you switch to a competitor. Do your research now to ensure your insurance will meet your needs for the upcoming year.  Learn more about how to take charge of your finances on Lincoln Financial Group's website.   Find out more about Sponsored Content. FREE AppDownload
Spain's Repsol has bought Canada's Talisman Energy for $13 billion. That's $8 per share, a stock price Talisman hasn't seen since early October. This is all great news for Carl Icahn's Icahn Enterprises (IEP), the company's largest shareholder. He announced a 6% stake in the stock in October of last year and has since upped his holdings to over 7%, with more than 76 million shares. During that entire time Talisman's stock got absolutely demolished, falling 71%. News of the sale gave it a slight pop but not nearly enough to erase all those losses. It's still down just under 60% for the period. The second-largest holder of the stock, it's worth noting, is Point72 Asset Management — Steve Cohen's family office. Here's what the stock has looked like since Icahn bought it: Yahoo Finance Woof. Unfortunately for IEP, Talisman isn't the only energy stock in its portfolio — and as such, it's not the only stock that is getting crushed. In its third-quarter report, IEP acknowledged that these holdings blew a $270 million hole in its balance sheet, and losses have only gotten worse since the price of oil has declined. So despite Icahn's very public wins, like eBay and Apple, IEP's stock is down 16% year-to-date. Yahoo Finance   FREE AppDownload
Russia's currency is in crisis right now. But what's even worse is that Russia central bank is acting like they've been totally blindsided. "What's happening right now, even in our nightmares we couldn't have imagined this one year ago," the deputy chairman of the Russian Central Bank, Sergei Shvetsov stated on Tuesday reports Interfax. "The situation is critical," he added. "Unfortunately, we can't always predict even the short-term prospects in our financial market. Many participants have found themselves in a difficult situation thanks to thiese events. Believe me, the choice made by the board of directors of the central bank — it was a choice between really bad and really, really bad." In the middle of the night on Tuesday (late Monday EST), the Russian Central Bank raised rates up to 17% from 10.5%. The bank's statement said that the decision was driven by the need to limit significant devaluation in the ruble and inflation risks. It did not work. The Russian currency fell to new lows, reaching 79 rubles to the dollar and 100 rubles to the euro on Tuesday. At first, it opened 8% stronger after the central bank's rate-hike.  Following all the news, one Russian bank manager stated today: "this is the end of the banking system." "The challenges are many," Shvetsov continued. "In the coming days, I believe, that the situation will be comparable to the most difficult period in 2008." "I think that the experience gained over the many crises will help [Russians] find the right solution and to survive this situation. I really hope that," he added. You can read the full story on Interfax here. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mikhail Klimentyev/RIA Novosti/Kremlin Russian President Vladimir Putin speaks with Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev, Russia's State Duma Speaker Sergey Naryshkin, and Security Council Secretary Nikolai Patrushev during a meeting of the Security Council at the Novo-Ogaryovo state residence outside Moscow. "Putin now needs scapegoats: external and internal," geopolitical expert Ian Bremmer told Business Insider over email. "Everything from the US and Europe for sanctions, Ukraine for the fight against Russia, 'speculators' for the run on the Russian economy, ineffectual policymakers — PM Medvedev surely at risk here too." Bremmer noted that Russian media tends to parrot Putin's narrative, which helps maintain the president's high popularity at home. As a result, he says, "there's no chance you see serious discussion of mistakes made by Putin that helped cause this crisis." In March, Putin annexed Crimea and incited a war by giving support to pro-Russian separatists in the eastern part of Ukraine. After the West brought sanctions, Putin doubled down by sending more men and weapons into eastern Ukraine while saying the sanctions were a plot to oust him from power. In the meantime, more than $85 billion in capital and droves of talented people have left Russia this year, and the country's economy is headed for a prolonged recession.  Russia officially a submerging market. RIA Novosti/ReutersPutin submerging. Bremmer said that capital controls — i.e., protections against Russian citizens and businesses withdrawing money from banks — are "looking more likely in this environment." In any case, the simultaneous crashes of oil prices and the ruble have challenged Putin to either back down to get some relief, or double down again. "The best thing for the economy — short of an oil price rise, which the Kremlin has no influence over — would be to negotiate a settlement with Ukraine and climbdown the escalation," Bremmer said. "But that flies against what's actually sustained Putin's popularity ... and the primary driver of his entire strategy for the past year." Bremmer doesn't see Putin changing his ways. "That's why this is a geopolitical problem more than an economic one," he said. "Oil at $50 is a serious problem for Putin; oil at $50 &amp; sanctions is a better narrative. And Putin's response is likely to geopolitical as well ..." By far the biggest geopolitical downside of oil prices tanking: pushing Putin into a corner. Bremmer noted that Putin's options include more cyberattacks, "more aggression/incursion around NATO borders, excuses found for expansion of military engagement beyond present zone in Russia, [and] closer ties/integration with China." Russian planes have been very active in the Baltic region in the past few months and are regularly intercepted by NATO planes. The Russian military also just carried out snap drills in the Russian exclave of Kaliningrad, which borders Lithuania and Poland. "Potential for 'accidents' [is] going way up," Bremmer added. This post has been updated.      FREE AppDownload
MarkitManufacturing activity cooled a tiny bit in December. According to Markit, the US manufacturing purchasing managers index (PMI) slipped to 53.7 in December from 54.8 in November. "The fourth consecutive monthly decline for the Markit PMI has brought the headline index to its lowest level since October of 2013, suggesting manufacturing activity may expand at a slower pace in Q4 than the previous two quarters," Barclays' Jesse Hurwitz said. "We continue to look for real equipment investment to grow an annualized 7% in Q4, following 11.2% and 10.7% growth in Q2 and Q3, respectively." Here are the key points from Markit: "Softer output and employment numbers merely represent a cooling in the pace of expansion from unusually strong rates earlier in the year, but also send a warning light to policymakers that the fourth quarter is likely to see a weakening in the pace of economic growth, which is starting to hit hiring," Markit's Chris Williamson said. "We expect this weakening to become evident in the official data early in the new year, meaning rate setters will continue to err on the side of caution in terms of when the economy may be ready for higher interest rates, especially as the survey data also highlight a further drop in inflationary pressures." FREE AppDownload
 A New York City high-school student featured in New York magazine's "Reasons to Love New York" issue for making millions trading the stock market admitted to the New York Observer on Monday night that he made it all up. New York magazine's Jessica Pressler reported that Stuyvesant High School senior Mohammed Islam, 17, was rumored to have made $72 million from trading the market. The article also said Islam went on record saying his net worth was in the "high eight figures" and that he had already purchased a BMW and rented a Manhattan apartment. Islam's buddy Damir Tulemaganbetov, who was also featured in the article, perpetuated the story. The story was widely picked up in the media. The two high schoolers were also scheduled to appear on CNBC's "Halftime Report."  After speaking to numerous folks who know Islam and reaching the pair on the phone while en route to CNBC's studios (only Tulemaganbetov would speak to us), Business Insider concluded that it was a rumor spun out of control. Soon after, CNBC's Scott Wapner got Islam to acknowledge he was not worth $72 million. On Monday, Islam and Tulemaganbetov finally came clean in an interview with the New York Observer's Ken Kurson alongside the crisis public relations firm 5WPR and attorney Ed Mermelstein of Rheem, Bell &amp; Mermelstein.  Islam admitted that he made up being worth eight figures and that he never actually traded the stock market, other than through simulated trades.  Islam also told The Observer that his parents were mad at him when the New York magazine article came out.  "Honestly, my dad wanted to disown me. My mom basically said she’d never talk to me. Their morals are that if I lie about it and don’t own up to it then they can no longer trust me. … They knew it was false and they basically wanted to kill me and I haven’t spoken to them since," Islam said.   Both high schoolers said they were sorry.       FREE AppDownload
Dr Ed's Blog Falling oil prices along with the slow pace of global economic growth are weighing on analysts’ estimates for S&amp;P 500 revenues and earnings. They’ve lowered their revenue growth rates for 2014 and 2015 to 3.4% and 3.0% as of the week of December 4. At the beginning of October, when the price of oil was just starting to crash, they were predicting 3.9% and 4.2%.  Their estimates for earnings growth were 7.9% and 12.4% for this year and next year at the start of October. Now they are estimating 7.0% and 9.3%. They’ve slashed their estimate for Q4-2014 by 6.5% since then down to $29.91, slightly below Q3’s $30.06. That’s the S&amp;P 500’s biggest decline since Q1-2009. Most of these downward revisions are attributable to the slashing of revenues and earnings estimates by energy industry analysts.  Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Slipping in the Oil Patch? (1) The global growth question. (2) A new financial crisis? (3) Financial jitters could delay dropping “considerable time.” (4) Is Yellen still the “Fairy Godmother of the Bull Market?” (5) CRB raw industrials spot price index still consistent with muddling global economy. (6) US still stands out. (7) Eurozone stagnating, especially in Italy and France. (8) Japanese live in small places. (9) Chinese bank loans producing less bang per yuan. (10) India and Brazil production numbers are weak. (11) Energy analysts depressing S&amp;P 500 estimates for revenues and earnings. (More for subscribers.)   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Sergei KarpukhinPeople dressed as blocks of currency notes as part of a marketing campaign walk in Moscow. Vedomosti is a Russian-language business publication that is a joint venture between Dow Jones, the Financial Times, and the publishing house Sanoma Independent Media. The banker "gives an example: today, one of the major banks told one of the largest energy companies, that the bank wants to raise credit rates up to 19%," Vedomosti reports. The banker added that the economy could not function at these rates, and for the real sector (aka the non-finance, non-stock exchange sector) this is death, according to Vedomosti. Early Tuesday morning (late Monday ET), the Russian Central Bank raised rates to 17% from 10.5%. The bank's statement said the decision was driven by the need to limit significant devaluation in the ruble and inflation risks. In a sentence, it did not work. The Russian currency fell to new lows, reaching 80 rubles to the dollar and 100 rubles to the euro on Tuesday. It first opened 8% stronger after the central bank's rate hike.  "The interbank lending market died today, [the banker stated and] added: 'The first thing in the morning, everyone closed it — you can't give money to anyone right now,'" Vedomosti reports. "Our [Federal Loan Obligations] portfolio dropped by 10% today, which pretty much erased our year-long profits." To read the full story on Vedomosti, click here.   FREE AppDownload
After a brief rally Monday morning, oil prices are tumbling again. Brent Crude spent much of the day below $60 per barrel for the first time since mid-2009. As of 4:30 p.m. GMT, Brent is back to $60.95, down just 0.43%. WTI, the other major oil price benchmark, fell to just $54 during the day That's down by almost half from where it peaked for 2014 this summer, at $107.26. It's now back up again at $57.13, up 1.54%. Here's Brent: Investing.com, Business Insider The slide since the summer has almost halved crude oil prices. Keep an eye on WTI: If it drops to $53.63, it will have fallen by 50% in half a year. The recent and particularly sharp slump in prices since late November came after OPEC, the oil-producing cartel, was unable to agree on a production cut. That's now gone so far that the United Arab Emirates' oil minister suggested that the bloc might be happy with oil falling to $40 per barrel, according to Bloomberg. The collapsing prices are having knock-on effects elsewhere in the world. Russia's emergency interest rate hike has failed to stop the collapse of the ruble, which has been falling in tandem with oil over recent weeks. And in the UK, inflation dropped to a 12-year low, driven in large part by the fall in oil prices translating into cheaper fuel.    FREE AppDownload
Michael McDonough/Twitter 2014 has been a terrible year for a few economies and currencies. Latin American currencies have suffered from rampant inflation while Eastern Europe currencies have been slammed by geopolitical turmoil-induced economic slowdown. Meanwhile, falling oil prices have been miserable for oil currencies like Russia's ruble and Norway's krone. Above are the worst performing currencies, plus oil, via Bloomberg chief economist Michael McDonough. Note the early year drops in the Argentine peso and Ukrainian hryvnia, and the more recent collapses of the ruble and WTI crude.  FREE AppDownload
BI Australia/Getty ImagesSteve Jobs and John Mayer in 2004.Apple is currently facing some extremely difficult questions in a class action case accusing it of limiting competitors’ access to the iPod. Along with iTunes, the media player helped revolutionise the way we buy and listen to music. It virtually owned the market from the day of its launch in late 2001. But in 2007, as competitors started to enter the marketplace, Apple released an iTunes update (7.0). That, and another update the following year, allegedly blocked songs downloaded from anywhere but iTunes from playing on the iPod, or stopped the iPod from working at all until the offending music was removed. Among those retailers hoping for a chunk of an estimated damages bill which, if implemented, could range from anywhere between $350 million and $1 billion, is US electronics giant Best Buy. It won’t have any bearing on the case, but here’s an interesting tale that popped up last week regarding an opportunity Best Buy whiffed on before all this mess started. Former Star Tribune retail reporter Thomas Lee released a book last week called “Rebuilding Empires”. In it, he details a conversation with a former Best Buy executive. According to the exec, Steve Jobs approached Best Buy in 2001 and the offer he put to them went something like this: "He rang us up and said, ‘I need distribution. I have got this thing called iTunes and I only want some cut of it." "I don’t want all of it, I’ll give it to you, you can have iTunes." "We could use it in the stores. He would give us 50 per cent of the revenue of each song and we did not have to pay for anything." 50 per cent. That’s an average of 50 cents per song downloaded on iTunes. A year after Apple introduced its anti-competitive software, iTunes had overtaken both Best Buy and Wal-mart to be the biggest music vendor in the US. It’s impossible to put a value on what a simple “Yes” would have meant for Best Buy. But at the start of last year, Apple announced 25 billion songs had been downloaded. Phillip Lupke of Germany received a 10,000-euro iTunes card for adding “Monkey Drums (Goksel Vancin Remix)” to his collection. So a crude estimate puts the deal, nearly two years ago, at roughly an extra $12 billion revenue for Best Buy over 12 years, given iTunes songs retail for an average of 99c each. Hindsight is a wonderful thing. The executive went on to tell Lee Best Buy passed on being a part of iTunes because it “didn’t understand” what Jobs was saying about the future of music. Now, they’re in court fighting for what they missed out on because of it. This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Maxim Shemetov The currency's fall has crossed the line from a headache to a full-blown crisis. A massive interest hike Monday night from the Central Bank of Russia (to 17% from 10.5%) barely held off the ruble's fall for a couple of hours. It's raising memories of previous collapses in Russia, like the 1998 financial crisis. But for some, it's more like the 1980s oil glut that eventually brought down the Soviet Union. Here's Yegor Gaidar writing for the American Enterprise Institute seven years ago. He was Russia's acting prime minister between 1991 and 1994, years of extreme economic pain for Russia. He describes the starting point of the USSR's collapse: The timeline of the collapse of the Soviet Union can be traced to September 13, 1985. On this date, Sheikh Ahmed Zaki Yamani, the minister of oil of Saudi Arabia, declared that the monarchy had decided to alter its oil policy radically. The Saudis stopped protecting oil prices, and Saudi Arabia quickly regained its share in the world market. During the next six months, oil production in Saudi Arabia increased fourfold, while oil prices collapsed by approximately the same amount in real terms. Sound familiar? It should. OPEC, the group of oil-producing nations, failed to agree to a cut in output (the usual response to falling prices) this November. Statements from the Saudi oil minister and other officials have suggested that the country, and the other gulf states, are happy to let prices slide. That leaves countries like Russia in a perilous position.  In the late 1980s, the Soviet Union was forced into an embarrassing scramble for money. It tried to make deals with numerous banks, but the funding offered was far smaller than what the country required. Food shortages worsened, and Moscow needed the help of governments in the West, for which the USSR effectively had to allow Eastern European countries to assert independence.  Writing in 2007, Gaidar warned against the consensus that oil prices would stay high: What lessons can we learn from the Soviet collapse and apply to the current situation in Russia? First, we must remember that Russia today is an oil-dependent economy. No one can accurately predict the fluctuations of oil prices. The collapse of the Soviet Union should serve as a lesson to those who construct policy based on the assumption that oil prices will remain perpetually high. It would seem that in our country, which has lived through the collapse of the late 1980s and early 1990s, this fact would be evident. But as soon as the prices went up again at the beginning of 2000 and in 2004 became comparable in real terms to those at the beginning of the 1980s, the idea that “high oil revenues are forever” has gained an even wider acceptance. Russia today isn't the same top-down, command-and-control economy that it was in the 1980s, but the dynamic hasn't changed entirely. The country is still hugely dependent on oil, particularly in terms of tax revenues and exports. And Gaidar thinks the collapse of the Soviet Union is still relevant for modern Russia: One more lesson that is relevant for Russian politics today is that authoritarian regimes, although displaying a façade of strength, are fragile in crisis. In conditions of relative stability, society is prepared to tolerate the lack of real elections. People are prepared to come to terms with this situation as an inevitable and habitual evil. But they will do so only until the country encounters a serious challenge, requiring decisive and tough measures in order to adapt to unfavourable conditions. Russian banks are watching their share prices go through the floor Tuesday. The Soviet Union may be over, but the falling oil price still poses a debt challenge for Russia. This time, its banks are more likely to take the heat.    FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Larry DowningConstruction workers are pictured building a new home in Vienna, Virginia, outside of Washington, October 20, 2014. The pace of housing starts unexpectedly fell by 1.6% to an annualized rate of 1.028 million units. Economists were expecting 1.04 million. Building permits plunged 5.2% to 1.035 million. "Overall, this was a disappointing report and it further underscores that the ongoing narrative of the housing sector recovery continuing to struggle for direction," TD Securities' Millan Mulraine said. "Nevertheless, with labor market conditions continuing to be favorable and buying conditions remaining very attractive, we believe that it will be only a matter of time before the housing recovery shifts up a gear or two and provide a crucial second wind to the economic recovery." FREE AppDownload
Amir Cohen/REUTERSAn Israeli gas platform is seen in the Mediterranean sea August 1, 2014. Israel announced on Sunday the discovery of a major offshore gas field, the third to be located in its waters in the past five years, augmenting its newly acquired status as an energy power. The new field, some 90 miles off Israel’s coast in the eastern Mediterranean, holds at least 3.2 trillion cubic feet (TCF) of gas, according to a 3D seismic survey. Two larger fields, discovered in 2009 and 2010, have combined reserves of at least 33 trillion cubic feet. These fields are expected to serve the bulk of Israel’s gas needs for the coming century. Experts say that further exploration will likely uncover other sizeable fields in Israel’s deep offshore waters. The gas discoveries will have a major impact on Israel’s economy and perhaps even on its relations with Arab neighbors. Jordan, the Palestinian Authority, and Egypt are all in urgent need of energy supplies and Israel would be the natural supplier. Israel’s proximity would make the gas significantly cheaper than gas they could acquire from any other source. It would be difficult politically for Arab governments to import gas from the Jewish state given the current tensions in the area. However, American firms, which are consortium partners with Israeli firms in the gas exploration, have already begun to act as intermediaries between Israel and these potential customers. Until five years ago, Israel was almost entirely dependent on the import of coal and other energy sources. Offshore natural gas has now become a major, and growing, element in electrical production in Israel and in its industrial sector. The drilling of an exploration well in the newest field, named Royee, is expected to get underway in December 2015. The sprouting of gas rigs in the waters off Israel’s coast also creates a major security problem. The sites constitute a potential target for missiles fired both by Hamas in the Gaza Strip and Hezbollah in Lebanon. Terrorist attacks in explosives-laden speedboats are another concern. The Israeli navy has been patrolling the gas fields. It recently asked Germany to sell it three missile boats to beef up security around the rigs. The boats’ missiles would be capable of intercepting incoming missiles. However, both Hamas and Hezbollah have reasons to refrain from attacking Israel’s seemingly vulnerable offshore assets. For one, any such attack would undoubtedly induce a massive Israeli response. Beyond that element of deterrence, both Hamas and Lebanon have reason to believe that gas, perhaps even oil, lies off their shores as well and they would not want Israeli retaliation when they begin to mine their waters. FREE AppDownload
Russia's currency is in crisis. A late-night interest-rate hike by Russia's central bank failed to stem the ongoing collapse of the ruble. So what does this mean for everyone else? This is kind of a complex question. But we can begin to answer that question by considering who is most exposed to Russia's economy. "[C]ompanies domiciled in Austria, Finland, and Poland have some of the largest average revenue exposures to Russia at 7.4%, 6.2%, and 5.6%," FactSet's Michael Amenta said in a September research note. "In addition, European countries with larger public markets, such as The Netherlands, United Kingdom, Gemany, and France, contain companies averaging several percentage points of revenue exposure as well (5.3%, 4.0%, 3.4%, and 3.2%, respectively)." US companies have an average of just 1.4% of sales exposed to Russia. FactSet   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Viktor KorotayevA customer retrieves money from an automatic teller machine, which as of January 1 gave figures in new roubles, worth 1,000 times less than old roubles, January 1, 1998.The US dollar's recent losses against the euro and yen have been extended.  Oil prices continue to swoon, and the price of Brent oil has fallen below $60, and WTI  approached $54.  While most emerging market currencies are higher today, a notable exception is the Russian ruble.  Very early Tuesday in Moscow, the central bank hiked the key interest rate to 17% from 10.5%.   This follows about five days after the central bank hiked by 100 bp.  The continued drop in oil prices did Russia no favors, but Russia's own experience in the late-90s, would have warned that its move was fraught with risk in any event.  In 1998, Russian interest rates were near 150%, and this did not stop the rouble from falling.  The interest rate is annualized, but the rouble's average net change over the past 12 sessions is a little more than 5% daily. The actual volatility over the past month is 57.2%. Many fear that capital controls may be the next step for Russia.  Although many investment managers reduced exposure to Russia as of the end of September, Russia's total external foreign debt stood near $680 bln.  Despite Putin's talk about wanting to seek alternative to the dollar, and willing to accept yuan for its oil sold to China, around two-thirds of its hard currency debt is thought to be denominated in US dollars.     The price of insurance via a five-year credit default swap is now near 580 bp, more than double the price as of the end of October.   It is the highest since 2009.  REUTERS/Maxim ZmeyevA man walks past a building and a board showing currency exchange rates in Moscow, December 16, 2014. The 2% decline in the Nikkei kept the dollar under pressure against the yen.   Last week's low near JPY117.45 was taken out, and the JPY117 retracement target has likewise given way.  The low, thus far has been near JPY116.25.  The next key retracement target is near JPY115.50.  This level corresponds with a 38.2% retracement of the move that began on Oct 15 and a 50% retracement of the move since the BOJ expanded its asset purchases on October 31. HSBC's flash manufacturing PMI for China fell to 49.5 from 50.0.  This is a slightly larger decline than the market expected and follows on the heels of last week's disappointing data.  This did not deter the resumption of the rally in Chinese shares.  The Shanghai Composite was up 2.3%, led by a 5% rise in the financial.  The market closed on its highs. Two other developments in China are noteworthy.  First China reported foreign direct investors rose 22.2% year-over year in November.  During the first eleven months of the year, direct investment flows into China are about $106 bln.   The combination of the large current account surplus and the direct investment inflows (basic balance) is the reason why some economists argue the yuan should be appreciating.   Second, although we look for some additional monetary accommodation from the PBOC, we see new initiatives on the fiscal front.  Chinese officials have approved a CNY192 bln (~$31 bln) construction/infrastructure project.  It involved new roads in three provinces and CNY80 bln for a third airport near Beijing. The eurozone flash PMI was better than expected, and this coupled with the better German ZEW survey helped lift the euro through the $1.2500, which had capped it until now.  This corresponds with 38.2% retracement from the October 15 high near $1.2900.  Above there, the next target is $1.2565.  The flash manufacturing PMI rose to 50.8 from 50.1, and the service reading rose to 51.9 from 51.3.  Both were better than expected.  The manufacturing was lifted by Germany, which saw its service measure slow further (51.4 from 52.1).  Both of France's measures improved but remained below 50.   The ZEW survey showed a marked improvement in German investor confidence.  The assessment of the current situation improved to 10 from 3.3, which was twice the improvement expected.   The expectations component jumped to 34.9 from 11.5.  It is the highest since April. For its part, the UK reported lower than expected inflation.  The November CPI slipped by 0.3% for a year-over-year pace of 1%.  The core rate also ticked down to 1.2% year-over-year from 1.5%.  On the producer prices, the input prices accelerated to the downside,  falling 8.8% year-over-year, which was not quite as much as the market expected (-9.2%).  The output side was considerably firmer than expected.  This combination speaks to corporate margins. The North American session features US November housing starts and permits data.  The housing market has disappointed this year.   The Fed starts its two day FOMC meeting amid volatile markets and the continued drop in oil prices.  The key focus is how the FOMC modifies its forward guidance now that the asset purchase program is over. FREE AppDownload
Turns out that most things you've heard or learned about food are completely wrong. Watch this video to get it right. Produced by Matthew Stuart. Special thanks to Kevin Loria. Follow BI Video: On Twitter
Thomson ReutersA Wall Street sign outside the New York Stock ExchangeNEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stock index futures fell on Tuesday as a slide in the Russian rouble and crude oil prices sent traders fleeing risky assets. The rouble  lost more than 17 percent against the U.S. dollar even after Moscow's central bank hiked its main interest rate to 17 percent from 10.5 percent. Brent crude  lost nearly 4 percent after hitting a low of $58.50 and U.S. crude  was down 3 percent at $54.21 after hitting $53.80. Adding to global concerns, data showed factory activity shrinking in China and euro zone business growth remaining weak. Plunging oil prices could heighten geopolitical tensions, trigger defaults by U.S. shale oil and gas firms and destabilize euro zone inflation expectations, the Bank of England warned on Tuesday. U.S. data due later in the day include housing starts for November and Markit's gauge of growth in the manufacturing sector.  (Reporting by Rodrigo Campos; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama) FREE AppDownload
JonesTrading's Dave Lutz has what traders are buzzing about right now. Morning!  US futures are dropping quickly, with S&amp;P off 50bp and 1% off overnight highs.   Lotta FX stress out there, with the Ruble not supported by the 6.5% HIKE in rates overnight.  The Ruble has plunged 8% against the Dollar in early trade as Oil falls another 4%.  The Ruble has lost 18% against the Dollar this week alone – sparking massive growth fears with one of Europe’s largest trading partners.   The DAX is off 50bp, held back by a 1% drop in their Financials as all of the PIIGs yields break wider (despite Greek Syriza poll lead narrows).   Gulf markets tumble about 8% as Brent slides below $60 (Dubai lost 7.7%, Abu Dhabi lost 5%, Qatar's bourse fell 3.6%, Kuwait lost 2.4 % and Oman was down 2%.  Saudi lost 3.9%, lowest in 1 year).  The Nikkei was hit for 2% as the Yen broke to 4week highs, but Shanghai leapt 2% to the highest close since 2011 on dovish hopes.   India was smacked for 2% and Aussie 60bp with the miners continuing their drop as MS takes down Ore price projections.  The Flight for safety amidst the Oil/Russia slowdown fears has driven Bund yields to 57bp, new record lows, and US 10YY is gapping down towards a 2% test.  “Flattener” trades abound, with the 3M5Y curve down 13bp, a big headwind for Financials.   The DXY is off as players seem to be leverage everywhere - so the crowded Euro short gets covered, and the crowded $ long liquidates - German 5Y Inflation metrics are collapsing as German, EU and Chinese PMIs all came in light – their 5Y breakeven at a -17bp!.  Despite the drop in Inflation expectations, Safety buying has propelled Gold 2% higher, spiking over 1220/oz.   Platinum is up 1% (Russia Supplier).   The story is about Oil, which has dropped another 4% overnight, to under $54/barrel earlier.   Front month Brent under $60 into Expiry today.  Scheduled Catalysts today include Housing Starts and Permits at 8:30 and Markit US Manufacturing PMI at 9:45.   API data for Crude after the close FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersExterior of Navistar office is seen in Lisle, Illinois(Reuters) - Navistar International Corp  on Tuesday reported a larger-than-expected loss, pulled down by restructuring and product warranty costs. The Lisle, Illinois-based truckmaker reported a net loss of $72 million, or 88 cents a share, in the fiscal fourth quarter ended October 31, compared with a loss of $154 million, or $1.91 a share, during the comparable quarter last year. Sales rose 9 percent to $3 billion. Analysts, on average, expected the company to post a profit of 15 cents a share, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.  (Reporting by James B. Kelleher in Chicago) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Maxim ZmeyevA board shows currency exchange rates in Moscow on Tuesday.Good morning! Here's what you need to know in markets for Tuesday. Russia Hiked Interest Rates To 17% From 10.5% To Defend The Crumbling Ruble. This surprise announcement from the central bank came after the ruble got absolutely crushed on Monday, losing more than 10% of its value against the US dollar and falling to below 64 against the it. Earlier this year, one dollar bought about 35 rubles. IT DIDN'T WORK. After rallying briefly, the ruble collapsed to new lows. Just before 7 a.m. ET, Russia's currency fell to as low as 75 rubles per dollar. The Oil Rally Reversed. After rising earlier Monday, oil prices fell back into a slump as trading went on. WTI crude fell to as low as $54.01 per barrel at about 4:30 a.m. ET. Brent crude got as low as $58.86 at about 7 a.m. ET. China's Slowdown Looks Even Worse. HSBC's purchasing managers index (PMI) for China's dominant manufacturing sector came in at 49.5; analysts expected a read of 49.8. Any reading below 50 indicates that a sector is contracting. This is the worst reading the country has had in seven months. Markets Are Sliding. US futures are lower, with Dow futures down 58 points and S&amp;P futures down 9 points. Europe is mixed, with Britain's FTSE up 0.5%, France's CAC 40 down 0.5%, and Germany's DAX flat. Japan's Nikkei took another kicking, losing 2.01% at the close. Hong Kong's Hang Seng closed down 1.5%. The Fed Meets. The Federal Reserve begins its two-day Federal Open Market Committee meeting on Tuesday. It'll publish its monetary policy announcement at 2 p.m. ET Wednesday. German Sentiment Improves. Germany's ZEW index of economic sentiment surged to 34.9 this month. That's up from 11.5 in November, flying much higher into positive territory. "This is fully in line with the bounce earlier this month in the Sentix indicating that investors in the eurozone's largest economy are getting much more upbeat about the future," Pantheon Macroeconomics' Claus Vistesen said. "As such, a looming political chaos in Greece and a Russian economy on the edge of the abyss have not been able to dent investor sentiment this quarter, and our bet is that the expectation of broad-based and aggressive QE at the ECB is the key driver of the surge in both the headline and expectations index." The Eurozone Is Growing. The eurozone's flash PMI reading for December came in at 51.7. Anything over 50 signals an expansion: The higher the figure, the more rapid the growth. Last month, the PMI figure overall fell to 51.1, a 16-month low. "On one hand, the upturn in the PMI supports the view that the ECB's stimulus is starting to take effect and that more time is needed to assess the impact of current measures," Markit's Chris Williamson said. "On the other hand, the disappointing rate of expansion, and especially the weakness evident in Germany and France, will add to calls for additional stimulus to be sanctioned without further delay." Greece's Leftist Radicals Are Still Leading In Polls. The survey conducted by GPO pollsters for MEGA TV showed support for Alexis Tsipras' Syriza at 28% versus the center-right New Democracy, which would get 23.1%, if elections were held now. The poll comes a day ahead of the first round of a presidential vote among Greece's legislators, which could trigger snap elections.  Boeing Just Boosted Its Share Buyback To $12 Billion. The airplane manufacturing giant raised its share repurchase authorization to $12 billion from $10 billion and said it would increase its quarterly dividend. FREE AppDownload
FLICKR/colorblindPICASOThe crash in oil prices is having a curious effect on everyday economics: oil is now cheaper than bottled water. Brent crude was trading just below $60 a barrel on Tuesday morning, meaning that it now costs about 24 pence a litre. An oil barrel is 159 litres and currently the British Pound is 64 pence to the dollar. As Reuters' John Kemp tweeted this morning, that is about 40% cheaper than a bottle of Evian mineral water in British supermarkets, where a six-pack of 1.5 litre bottles sells for £3.80. Brent is still more expensive than Tesco brand Ashbeck sparkling water, which is 20 pence a litre if you buy the 4-pack of 2 litre bottles from the Tesco online store.  To hit that price, oil would have to go as low as $42.61 a barrel. FREE AppDownload
Ilya Naymushin/Reuters/Amanda Macias/Business InsiderAn artwork depicting a portrait of Russian President Vladimir Putin based on a layer of U.S. dollars and Russian roubles.The Russian central bank raised interest rates to 17% in an attempt to prevent the rouble’s collapse. But the dramatic move failed to stem the decline, with the currency hitting new all-time lows against the dollar. Russia’s central bank has taken the drastic step of raising its main interest rate to 17%, a rise of 6.5 percentage points. The announcement – made around 1am local time – is a desperate attempt to restore confidence in the rouble, which has almost halved in value against the dollar in six months. Last week, the central bank raised rates by 1%, but this failed to calm jitters about an economy that is suffering from falling oil prices and western sanctions. No. A strong early rally in the value of the rouble soon went into reverse, sending the currency to an all-time low against the dollar of $66.59. The rouble is worth 3.6% less since the central bank’s emergency rate rise. Only bad ones. The central bank can continue to defend the rouble, by spending its foreign exchange reserves to support the currency. Although Russia sits on some of the largest foreign exchange reserves in the world because of its oil and gas earnings, its cash pile is shrinking fast. In 2014, it spent $80bn supporting the rouble, around one-fifth of the value of its reserves. The bank could raise rates again, but this would be painful for borrowers, worsening the country’s economic slowdown. The other option is currency controls – stopping people from taking money out of the country. But this could turn a crisis into a full-blown panic. It’s bad - Timothy Ash at Standard Bank says Russian authorities now have “a full-blown rouble crisis on their hands”. The dread scenario for Russian policymakers is a re-run of the 1998 financial crisis, a currency panic that plunged Russia into a deep and painful recession, sending shockwaves through financial markets around the world. In August of that year, fears of a rouble devaluation led to the collapse of Russia’s stock, bond and currency markets. The central bank unveiled emergency measures, but were unable to beat the markets. The rouble lost three-quarters of its value in three weeks. The bank eventually hiked rates to 100% and Russia defaulted on its debts. The following year inflation spiked at 85% and people were demonstrating in the streets about high food prices. Partly, but sanctions are only part of the story. Russia’s central bank governor, Elvira Nabiullina, on Tuesday blamed falling oil prices and western sanctions for the pressure on the currency. Oil prices have fallen below $60 a barrel, a huge problem for Russia, where oil and gas revenues finance more than half of the state budget. Russian authorities were banking on oil prices of $100 per barrel in 2015 to balance the books and are forecasting a sharp recession if prices remain at current levels. At the same time Russian banks are frozen out of western capital markets, as a result of EU and US sanctions over Russia’s actions in Ukraine. As a result, banks must turn to the central bank to help them refinance their debts, further straining resources. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
Google has become the latest company to explore the launch of a “buy” button and other additional shopping features as it looks to beef up its e-commerce arsenal to fight off Amazon, The Wall Street Journal reports. Google has been approaching retailers about the introduction of a buy button within its Google Shopping search results, sources told The Wall Street Journal. Currently, Google Shopping simply redirects users to retailers’ websites, rather than letting them buy direct from a search result. The rollout would be similar to Amazon’s “one-click ordering” feature, which also appears in its off-site “commerce ads,” and allows users to type in their credit card and delivery information just once in order to make future purchases. This could be Google’s big attempt to prevent Amazon eating into its market share when it comes to shopping. Google has a long-term strategy for dealing with Amazon: Over the years, many people have gotten used to starting their shopping searches on Amazon, or searching in Google but arriving at Amazon's pages because Amazon has good search result rankings. In the last couple of years, Google has adopted a strategy of layering various promotional search devices in front or on top of Amazon's results, letting Google shopping advertisers cream off clicks that otherwise would have gone to Google. A Google "buy" button would obviously circumvent shoppers in a hurry and direct traffic away from Amazon. Separately, The Wall Street journal says Google is also exploring the launch of a marketing program that would allow partner merchants to promote two-day shipping for products purchased via Google Shopping. That would not meet the 1-day delivery service offered to Amazon Prime customers, but does resemble programs offered by other shopping services like ShopperRunner Inc, which offers two-day shipping from thousands of partners including American Eagle, Shoes.com and the NBA store for a $79 a year fee. Google also already has its own $95 per year Express same/next-day service, which launched in October and is currently only available in the US. However, sources have told The Wall Street Journal that both of these ideas might never come to fruition, as retailers have been cool to the propositions so far, fearing price competition and a lack of control over the shopper experience. Were Google to roll out a buy button, it would also get more data about how its ads convert into sales, likely pushing up advertising prices. A Google spokeswoman told Business Insider the company "does not comment on rumors or speculation." Google CEO Eric Schmidt has previously described Amazon as Google’s biggest search rival, as many users simply bypass Google and go straight to the e-commerce site when they are thinking about shopping.  Indeed, in the third quarter, 39% of US online shoppers began researching their purchases on Amazon, while just 11% started in Google, according to research from Forrester, cited by The Wall Street Journal. In 2009, 24% of shoppers began their research on search engines and just 18% started with Amazon. This is a trend replicated in the UK. Some 61% of UK shopper have found gift ideas from searching Amazon this Christmas, while 50% got their inspiration from Google searches, according to a survey from search experience optimization platform Searchmetrics. Searchmetrics Google has some work to do in getting consumers to trust the company with payment information if it is to fend of Amazon. Research released this week from Bizrate Insights, a division of ecommerce marketing solutions company Connexity, found that 45.4% of consumers trust Amazon with their payment and personal information, while just 12.9% trust Google. Bizrate Insights surveyed more than 6,200 online buyers. Facebook and Twitter have also recently made moves to test their own “buy” buttons. Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through his personal investment company Bezos Expeditions. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/John Kolesidis Europe is in a bad place right now. Deflation is looming and growth is nowhere to be seen. There's conflict in Ukraine, unemployment is still eye-wateringly high, and it doesn't seem like much of that is going to change any time soon. So insurgent opposition parties are popping up all over the continent, promising an end to crisis or a return to how things used to be. Here's what Citi's researchers had to say about Europe's political developments in their outlook for 2015: Future developed country elections will likely continue to see the popularity of new — and not so new — anti-establishment parties, from France’s National Front to Greece’s Syriza to Spain’s up-and-coming far-left Podemos, increasing the risk of fragile multi-party coalitions and reducing the already limited political capital of leaders. In our view, the appetite for political alternatives will endure for many years to come, and their public support could increase in the event of a triple-dip European recession, a non-negligible risk. Here's a look at the five leaders most likely to cause an upset in the year ahead: REUTERS/Ina FassbenderBerndt Lucke, who leads Germany's anti-euro movement, could have a knock-on effect for German politics. Lucke often doesn't get a look-in when people are talking about Europe's fresh new populist movements. AfD is comparatively poorly supported and, unlike the emergent centre-right and right-wing parties in other parts of Europe, AfD and Lucke are less prone to inflammatory rhetoric.  But that shouldn't undermine Lucke's potential impact. Germany is a colossal, irreplaceable lynchpin in the European project. AfD support Germany's membership of the EU, but wants it to stop using the euro. Standard &amp; Poor's went as a far as to say that the group posed a risk to the stability of the eurozone.  Angela Merkel's centre-right Christian Democrats enjoy widespread support for now, but some disgruntled voters are heading to the AfD. If more follow them as the German economy slows down, the Christian Democrats could be forced to pursue more anti-European policies in an attempt to get them back. German voters are overwhelmingly opposed to Europe-wide stimulus projects and a more stern stance from Berlin could worsen Europe's already achingly-slow growth.  Latest polling support: 6% (5th place) REUTERS/Yorgos KarahalisSyriza's Alexis Tsipras could be the most important opposition party leader, with snap elections potentially just a month or two away in Greece. There's not much that Germany's Berndt Lucke has in common with Greece's Alexis Tsipras. Syriza have become the darlings of Europe's anti-austerity left, and look likely to triumph in the snap elections that could come at the start of 2015. Syriza has a political platform that puts it on a collision course with Europe's most important institutions. That prospect sent Greek stocks into the ground last week, seeing their worst sell-off in more than 25 years. Syriza is at the heart of Europe's far left: four Italian politicians were even elected to the European Parliament this year on a "Tsipras List". Greece was at the centre of the euro crisis from 2010 onwards, and it could still be the crux of European politics in 2015. Latest polling support: 24.3% (1st place) REUTERS/Olivia HarrisNigel Farage, UKIP leader, hopes to make gains in the UK's 2015 election. Farage, the long-time leader of the United Kingdom Independence Party (UKIP), poses a threat to Europe from outside of the currency union. UKIP aren't likely to win the UK's upcoming general election in May 2015. They're not even necessarily going to get any seats, owing to the UK's electoral system. But their shadow is hanging over British politics at the moment. The Labour party has hastily assembled its own strategy for dealing with UKIP, and the Conservative party have promised a 2017 referendum on the UK's EU membership which London's financial giants are dreading. Even with relatively little concrete political power, just a few seats in parliament for Farage's UKIP could be crucial. No party seems likely to get majority support from the country, so alliance-building will be unavoidable after 2015. If UKIP's handful of MPs held the balance of power, they could push for an EU referendum almost immediately. Latest polling support: 16% (3rd place) REUTERS/Juan Medina Pablo Igelsias' Podemos are currently ahead in Spanish polls, a year from the country's next election. Spain's anti-austerity insurgents, Podemos, have surged from nothing to become the most popular party in Spain right now. If this list was ranked, Iglesias would be a serious contender for the man most likely to upturn the European political system in 2015. Iglesias is a fan of Greece's Alexis Tsipras, but unlike Greece, Spain is too big to be isolated by European authorities. There's now a real chance that the eurozone's fourth biggest economy might vote for a guy who refers positively to Vladimir Lenin in his political speeches. Even if the rest of 2015 goes well, Spain's election in December could prompt a huge crisis. Similarly to Syriza, Podemos would seriously clash with the eurozone's economic and political orthodoxy, particularly on the issue of fiscal policy. The eurozone has agreed to rules that try to limit the deficit spending of its members, which Podemos would not abide by. Latest polling support: 29.6% (1st place)  REUTERS/Robert PrattaMarine Le Pen of France's Front National looks unlikely to win power any time soon, but she's casting a long shadow over the country's politics. Marine Le Pen is the most obvious representative of Europe's hard right. Le Pen leads Front National that her father, Jean-Marie Le Pen, led before her. A long-time presence in French politics which came in second place in France's 2002 Presidential election. Like Germany, France doesn't have elections this year, but Le Pen and FN are making their presence felt in France. The country has municipal elections next year, when FN are likely to make gains, adding to their victory (by more than four percentage points) in the European parliament elections in France. As in Germany, it's very unlikely that FN will enter a formal position of power. The country's two-round presidential elections make it functionally impossible for them to win at the highest level, but they will continue to have an effect on the mainstream parties of the French left and right, as they scramble to please its voters. Latest polling support: 27-32% (1st-2nd place) FREE AppDownload
The ruble is collapsing. Russia's currency fell to new lows, touching nearly 80 rubles to the dollar and over 100 rubles to the euro on Tuesday.  Earlier on Tuesday, the ruble opened 8% stronger after Russia's central bank raised rates by 650 basis points to 17% from 10.5%, at 1 a.m. local time Tuesday morning.  In a worrying sign for the Bank of Russia, the currency remains volatile, quickly reversing the morning's gains and snapping back to move over 13% weaker from its opening price. It is now down by more than 20% over the week and down by 56% year to date. Bloomberg.com To compound the country's woes, Russia's 10-year local bond yield (the interest rate the government has to pay to borrow) jumped more than 2% to 15.36%, while the country's dollar-denominated 10-year bond yield also leaped up 36 basis points to 7.55%, the Financial Times reports.  Heinz Rüttimann, an emerging-market strategist at Julius Baer, describes the situation as a "perfect storm" for Russia, the final step of which would be the introduction of capital controls or a move to stop money already in Russia from leaving the country.  The collapse in the ruble has set off chaos in markets around the world, with US stock futures falling, oil continuing to collapse, US Treasury bonds rallying, and other currencies — notably the Norwegian krone — also tumbling.   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Issei KatoA woman walks past an advertisement showing McDonald's burgers, fries and a drink, outside a McDonald's store in Tokyo December 16, 2014.McDonald's will cut down on portions of French fries from its menus in Japan, as the fast food restaurant faces a shortage of frozen potatoes, the Financial Times reports. The website wrote that from Wednesday onwards McDonald's will only sell small portions of French fries. This is due to a shortage of imported potatoes caused by labour dispute at a port on the US West Coast. Last week, more than 10 cargo ships were anchored at the twin ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach causing delivery delays for goods ranging from rice and frozen potatoes to NBA booblehead collectibles. The crisis is partly the result of prolonged negotiations between the Pacific Maritime Association, which manages 29 American ports, and 20,000 dockworkers who have been without contract from June. Japan is the biggest Asian market for American French fries, importing $336 million in frozen potato products last year. The Financial Times reports that McDonald's, which has taken steps to fly in 1,000 tonnes of frozen potatoes to face the situation, still does not know how long the crisis will affect its Asian restaurants. More supplies shipped on a different route are expected between January and February. The news adds to a string of troubles for the global brand. Facing declines in sales and traffic, the company is desperate to change its image among youngsters. On Dec. 8, McDonald's reported a 2.2% loss in global same-store sales from the previous month. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
UK inflation is down to 1% for November, the lowest since 2002. That's down from 1.2% in October and well below the Bank of England's 2% target, as the plunging oil price starts to reach petrol pumps. If inflation falls below 1%, Bank governor Mark Carney has to write a letter to Chancellor George Osborne explaining why. Here it is in context from the Office for National Statistics: ONS The collapse in oil prices is a big part of this: crude oil is now worth barely more than half of what it was during the summer, bringing inflation down everywhere. The UK is also getting the after-effects of the eurozone's incredibly low inflation imported over, since the bloc is the UK's biggest trading partner. Yields on the UK's 30-year bonds just dropped to 2.5%, the lowest ever recorded. Low inflation drives yields lower because investors are happy to take a lower return when prices aren't rising quickly. Don't expect a change any time soon. Oxford Economics suggested that consumer price inflation (CPI) would be below 1% for most of 2015 even before today's figures, largely due to the collapse of oil: Oxford Economics FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Good morning! Here's what you need to know for Tuesday. 1. Russia raised its key interest rate to 17% from 10.5% in a shocking decision made after the collapse of the ruble on Monday. 2. A siege of a cafe in downtown Sydney ended early Tuesday after 16 hours with the death of two captives and their hostage-taker, who was identified as Man Haron Monis, a self-proclaimed sheikh with a criminal past.  3. A gunman in Pakistan took about 500 students and teachers hostage on Tuesday in a school in the northwestern city of Peshawar.  4. BT Group has entered exclusive talks with Deutsche Telekom and Orange to buy the UK mobile operator EE for £12.5 billion ($19.6 billion). 5. Sony Pictures has warned current and former employees to be on alert for fraudsters looking to use their stolen data, like social security numbers, credit-card details, and bank account information. 6. A workers union in Spain has warned that up to 20,000 small businesses in the country could be forced to close when rent controls are abolished at the end of the month. 7. Japanese officials ordered the slaughter of about 4,000 chickens after confirming the H5 strain of bird flu at a poultry farm in the southwest of the country.  8. The Australian Weather Bureau said Tuesday that there was more than a 70% chance of El Nino emerging by February 2015, as Pacific Ocean surface temperatures have exceeded the weather phenomenon's threshold for several weeks. 9. Brazilian researchers have discovered a drug-resistant bacteria, or "super-bug," in Rio de Janeiro's Guanabara Bay, where sailing and windsurfing events will be held during the 2016 Olympics.  10. Despite being opposed to Europe, The UK Independence Party (UKIP) has secured £1.5 of EU funds by creating a new political party.And finally ... Merriam-Webster named "culture" the word of the year. FREE AppDownload
Business Insider reached out to Mohamed A. El-Erian for his views on Russia’s dramatic interest rate hike. Here is a sad reality if you are a Russian trying to cope with an economic recession and a currency implosion; (and it is something that is having a broader impact on many investors in emerging markets, almost regardless of where they are investing and through which asset classes): There isn’t much your central bank can do to engineer a sustainable Russian economic and financial recovery; instead, it falls to President Putin. Russia is caught in what economists call an unfavorable “multiple equilibria” – that is, instead of mean reverting, a bad outcome increases the probability of a worse outcome down the road. Rather than bring in buyers at these substantially cheaper levels, Russian currency weakness is inducing more selling, including by a growing number of worried bank depositors who, instead of holding their savings in ruble, are opting for safer dollars. The larger the extent of this “currency substitution,” the bigger the scope for capital flight out of Russia. This puts even greater pressure on the currency, aggravating the output contraction, imported inflation, and the general sense economic and financial instability. Russia’s current turmoil has been made a lot worse by the precipitous decline in oil prices and the impact of western economic sanctions. While the central bank has a decent foreign exchange buffer (some $400 billion in international reserves), it is hesitant to resume large-scale foreign exchange intervention. This hesitation is not irrational. By maintaining relatively high reserves the central bank hopes to counter the risk that the ruble’s implosion would fuel widespread fears about imminent debt defaults. As such, while it may release some dollars into the system, it is unlikely to open its taps fully. Instead, it will resort to even higher interest rates -- as demonstrated by the dramatic 1 am announcement of a hike in the policy rate from 10.5% to 17%, the largest change since 1998 when the country was scrambling to avert a default. It is also likely to tighten the requirements on the surrender of export proceeds. Such an approach may put some sand in the wheels, including by triggering an immediate currency bounce, but it is not costless. In addition to pushing Russia further into recession, it is unlikely to engineer a sustainable recovery nor will it fully and durably lift the threat of financial instability. The solution for Russia's predicament lies with President Putin. Notwithstanding the detrimental impact of lower oil prices, he can still improve market and economic sentiment by changing course on Ukraine, engaging more constructively with the West, and helping to lift the economic sanctions on his country. As yet, there is little to suggest that Putin is willing to do any of this. The longer he waits, the harder it will be for him to contain and reverse the damage, and this regardless of what the central bank does.   Mohamed A. El-Erian is the former CEO/co-CIO of PIMCO. He is Chief Economic Advisor at Allianz and member of its International Executive Committee, Chair of President Obama’s Global Development Council and author of the NYT/WSJ bestseller “When Markets Collide.” Follow him on twitter @elerianm FREE AppDownload
The results of the UK's bank stress tests are now out. The Co-operative Bank, Royal Bank of Scotland and Lloyds were all told that they need to strengthen their capital. The Co-op Bank also has to submit a new capital plan, meaning it failed the tests entirely. The stress tests were widely considered to be more strict than the European ones that were conducted earlier this year.  The tests take the bank's performance details and subject it to an imaginary economic crisis to see how it performs: A one-third crash in house prices and a doubling in unemployment was part of the model. Bank of England, Business Insider A bank should keep its capital ratio (a common measure of how much more of a shock a bank can take) above 4.5% even during the worst part of the stress test. All but one bank (the Co-op) managed to do that, though RBS squeaked through with just 4.6%. Overall, they Financial Policy Committee (FPC) that was in charge of the tests sounds pleased: Overall, the FPC judged that the resilience of the system had improved significantly since the capital shortfall exercise in 2013. Moreover, the stress-test results and banks’ capital plans, taken together, indicated that the banking system would have the capacity to maintain its core functions in a stress scenario. Therefore, the FPC judged that no system-wide, macroprudential actions were needed in response to the stress test. The Co-op was widely expected to fail the tests, so no major surprises here. The bank has bounced from crisis to crisis, after pulling out of a plan to buy hundreds of branches from Lloyds in 2013. A huge capital shortfall and the dismal corporate governance of the bank were revealed shortly afterwards. Here's how the BoE's scenario was different to Europe's, according to Capital Economics: Capital Economics FREE AppDownload
