Thomson ReutersPlosser, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, attends the Jackson Hole Economic Policy Symposium in Jackson HoleAMELIA ISLAND Fla (Reuters) - Charles Plosser, president of the Philadelphia Federal Reserve Bank and the loan dissenter at the Fed's July policy meeting, on Saturday continued his push for the U.S. central bank to change its language on interest rate policy to reflect an improving economy and pave the way for a faster-than expected-interest rate hike. Plosser, who is known for his longstanding warnings about potential inflation, said the Fed's steady, accommodative language had fallen out of step with a strengthening economy. "We must acknowledge and thus prepare the markets for the fact that interest rates may begin to increase sooner than previously anticipated," Plosser said in remarks prepared for delivery to a group of Pennsylvania community bankers gathered for their annual convention at this seaside resort. "I am not suggesting that rates should necessarily be increased now," said Plosser, who currently is a voter on the Fed's main policy-setting committee. But "our first task is to change the language in a way that allows for liftoff sooner than many now anticipate and sooner than suggested by our current guidance." The Fed's policy committee meets later this month in a session that may see Plosser get his wish. In a recent speech at the Fed's annual economic conference in Wyoming, Fed Chair Janet Yellen acknowledged the arguments of those, like Plosser, who feel the economy - and labor markets in particular - may be stronger than they appear by some indicators. Other Fed officials have also become more vocal about the need for the central bank to begin shifting gears more quickly from policies set to fight the 2007 to 2009 financial crisis and recession. But the data remains ambiguous: growth has rebounded, for example, but the jobs report for August released on Friday was a disappointment and offered fodder for those on the Fed who feel labor markets are not fully healed. There were indications, however, that some policymakers were not disturbed by the latest jobs report. Eric Rosengren, president of the Boston Fed, said Friday afternoon that he sees the U.S. economy heading toward full employment, though the path could be faster or slower than currently forecast. Plosser said that it was difficult for economists to know the true state of the labor market, and dangerous for the Fed to weigh employment issues too heavily in its interest rate decisions. "Whether you believe that the labor market has fully recovered or not, it is clear that we have made considerable progress toward full employment and price stability," Plosser said. "We are no longer in the depths of a financial crisis nor is the labor market in the same dire straits it was five years ago. "If monetary policy waits until it is certain that the labor market has fully recovered before beginning to raise rates, policy will be far behind the curve," he said.   (Reporting by Howard Schneider; Editing by Leslie Adler) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Rick WilkingWarren BuffettWarren Buffett turned 84 years old on Saturday. And even at that age, the billionaire "Oracle of Omaha" continues to be involved in some of the biggest investment plays in the world. Buffett is undoubtedly the most successful investor in history. His investment philosophy is no secret, and he has repeatedly shared bits and pieces of it through a lifetime of quips and memorable quotes. His brilliance is timeless, and we find ourselves referring back to them over and over again. We compiled a few of Buffett's best quotes from his TV appearances, newspaper op-eds, magazine interviews, and of course his annual letters. FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Jill LawlessA demonstrator carries a sign during a pro-independence march in Edinburgh, Scotland.  This is the story of the weekend.  A bombshell new poll published by the Sunday Times (in London) shows that the YES side has taken the lead in the upcoming referendum on Scottish independence. Here's the front page revealing the news. Sunday Times The lead is quite slender, just 51-49, so within the margin of error. But it's clear that the possibility Scotland will vote to leave Britain is now very real. This tweet and chart from YouGov, which conducted the poll, shows just how well the YES side has done in recent weeks.  One victim of the rising momentum for YES has been the British pound, which has been sliding against the dollar for several weeks now. FinViz A YES vote would be seen as a massive political blow to the current Conservative government of David Cameron, a fact voiced by Rupert Murdoch earlier in the day.  FREE AppDownload
YouTube/ZAGATBlack Seed Bagels offers a twist on New York's beloved institution, the bagel shop.New York is often called "the city that never sleeps," and its flourishing small-business scene doesn't seem to sleep, either. In fact, more and more enterprises are popping up every day, many of which are bringing some unusual concepts to life. From key-making kiosks to a boozy bakery and a hand-blended parfumerie, we rounded up 28 of the coolest small businesses in the five boroughs. For this list we focused on businesses that opened within the past five years or so. Know a cool business we missed? Let us know in the comments. FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Sonny AbesamisLego may be the world’s biggest toymaker, but it didn't get there by keeping its prices down.  “I went to Toys 'R' Us recently to buy my son a Lego set for Hanukkah. Did you know a small box of Legos costs $60? Sixty bucks for 102 plastic blocks!” NPR’s Chana Joffe-Walt wrote in a 2012 article. A quick Google search reveals that Lego products can be bought for a few dollars to more than $200 depending on the set. For instance, a Lego Minifigure, a plastic figure that measures just an inch and a half tall, costs about $4. The popular Millennium Falcon with 1,254 pieces goes for $179.99. In comparison, competitor Mega Bloks sells the competing “Halo” set with 1,161 pieces at retail for $68. While Lego would not comment on how its products are priced – which it says is set by the retailer (never mind the wholesale price the retailer pays) -- a company spokesperson said the bricks are made with extreme precision, resulting in a higher-quality product. Still, Lego blocks are made from plastic, and their patents expired in 1989. If any toy company can make the bricks, then why do consumers repeatedly choose Lego? “Lego spends a lot of attention on ‘clutch power,’” David Robertson, author of the book "Brick by Brick," told NPR. The term he invented refers to how every Lego brick fits perfectly with another, regardless if it was manufactured in 1968 or 2008. The privately held, family-owned Lego Group has factories in its native Denmark, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Mexico and soon in China. No matter where or when the pieces are built, “the main thing is the bricks are the same,” Charlotte Simonsen, head of corporate communications at Lego, told International Business Times. Regardless of what set they belong to or when they were made, they will always fit together. While Lego dominated the construction toy market for decades, Mega Bloks emerged as a competitor in the last decade. Flickr/Sonny Abesamis The construction toy block company, which  was recently purchased by major toymaker Mattel (NASDAQ:MAT), makes bricks that look like Legos, can snap onto Legos, and are often a fraction of the cost. Still, Lego sales show most consumers opt for the pricier Danish product over the Canadian knockoff. Dallas Slieker, a 30-year-old Lego fan, says his decision to buy Lego is rooted in quality. “Other brands like Mega Bloks have greatly improved in the last five years regarding their quality, but still some parts don’t fit together perfectly, which is a distraction from the creative process,” he told International Business Times. Lego is painstakingly precise when it comes to their production. Each block has three numbers inscribed on it which determines what mold it was made in and its placement in that mold. If a defect is found, the company can pinpoint exactly which mold is defective and correct the issue, Robertson explained. Defects are extremely rare. Just 18 out of every 1 million Lego elements produced are considered defective, according to BusinessWeek. While the company may purchase new licenses for the Disney Princess, the film “the Hobbit” or “The Simpsons” -- to name a few acquired this year-- that may bring more children to their brand, it’s the most basic details that keep customers coming back.   “I trust Lego parts to have consistent colors, even over several years,” Slieker said. “Other companies have different colors, even in the same set. Mega Bloks does some ‘swirly’ patterns that never match up.” Lego’s longevity also plays a part in the mind of the consumer, Amy Shea, executive vice president at the research consultancy Brand Keys, told Daily Finance. "The ultimate question comes down to, how would I feel about giving my grandson fake Legos? I wouldn't do it. Even if I thought they wouldn't know the difference, I would know the difference. The knockoffs just don't have that emotional meaning." But Lego wasn’t always the toy brand parents opted for. In the early 2000s it struggled with sales, after venturing into other businesses and losing focus on its hallmark design. Lego's executive vice-president for markets and products, Mads Nipper, said, "With our arrogance, we thought being Lego allowed us to do anything." Nipper told Bloomberg BusinessWeek the company gave product designers free rein, which resulted in complex models that made supply costs soar. The Lego City product, which once accounted for 13 percent of the company’s total revenue, plummeted to just 3 percent during that time. "Management was to blame," Nipper said. "The same people who were doing crappy products then are making world-class products today." By 2010, the company returned to its roots thanks to a restructuring effort led by the grandson of Lego’s founder. Sales rose more than one-third to a record $3 billion, with net profits $700 million. Today, the company is the world’s largest toymaker. It has made more than $2 billion in the first half of 2014 alone – up more than 11 percent from the year before -- partially due to the 2014 release of the “Lego Movie," which some saw as an ad for the iconic toys.  The blockbuster made $257 million at the box office, and Lego shared in some of that wealth.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Toru HanaiA man looks at an electronic board displaying Japan's Nikkei average (R second from top) and various countries' stock price indices, outside a brokerage in Tokyo December 16, 2013.When emerging-market governments get popular, an economic crisis could be right around the corner.  This is the finding from a new paper published by Christoph Trebesch, Helios Herrera, and Guillermo L. Ordoñez on the economic policy site voxEU. "Our main finding is that 'political booms', defined as an increase in government popularity, precede financial crises in emerging markets," the authors write. "The public's opinion of the current government improves significantly in the run-up to a country's financial crash. Interestingly, however, political booms only predict financial crises in emerging markets, not in advanced economies." The authors looked at economic crises in emerging markets such as South Korea, Russia, Indonesia, and the Philippines, which all faced economic turmoil in the late 1990s when the value of several Asian currencies fell rapidly. The popularity of these governments grew precipitously ahead of these financial crises, but in advanced economies like the U.S., Japan, and the U.K., government popularity actually declined ahead of a financial crisis. This chart shows the disparity in government popularity in these economies ahead of financial crises. voxEU One of the main reasons that this phenomenon seems unique to emerging markets is that EM governments are actually less popular than their emerging-market counterparts, making it difficult for them to regulate or rein in nascent credit or speculative bubbles. The authors find, "emerging markets may be more prone to crises than advanced economies because their governments have on average lower reputation, and because in emerging markets there is higher uncertainty about the quality of political leaders. Governments in emerging markets have more to gain by riding the popularity benefits of a credit boom." The authors note that the two most common predictors of financial crises are credit booms and an increase in capital flows. But for emerging markets, a popular government could amplify potential financial risks. "The two predictors jointly have much higher explanatory power than separately," the authors write. "[A]n emerging market which experienced a political and credit boom at the same time is much more likely to suffer a crisis than a country experiencing only one of them." You can read the whole paper over at voxEU here » FREE AppDownload
Mal Langsdon Bears are going extinct. A Barron's survey (Via @cavandy) of market strategists finds that nobody thinks markets will go down. Here's the key paragraph: None of the group, whom we survey each September and December, is bearish these days, although some strategists have toned down their optimism because of the market's gains. Still, the most bullish see the benchmark barreling toward 2500 in the next 18 to 24 months. That would be an increase of nearly 25% from last week's close. The Barron's survey echoes another data point from earlier this week. A survey of newsletter market pundits from Investors Intelligence found that bears are "evaporating." This chart shows that among pundits, the percentage of bears is at a 27-year low. Pension Partners via @MktOutperform This might cause your contrarian alarm bells to kick in, though while bears are going extinct, it doesn't necessarily follow that there's euphoria. There's still a deep-seated skepticism about the economy, the Fed, and the market. So while the lack of bears is concerning, it's only part of the story. FREE AppDownload
We talked to some of the famous Hooters girls at the chain's Manhattan location about what it's like to wear the legendary, tight uniform. Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis and Kamelia Angelova. Additional camera by Justin Gmoser. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
NetflixFictional characters like billionaire Raymond Tusk from "House of Cards" are real.Politics and business have always had a sticky relationship. The Brookings Institute released a ranking of U.S. billionaires according to their political influence.  The billionaires' influences are measured by the "use of great wealth for campaign expenditures, activism through non-profit organizations and foundation, holding public office, media ownership, policy thought leadership, and behind the scenes influence." FREE AppDownload
    Wal-Mart is an absolute behemoth in the world of retail. It hauls in a massive $405 billion dollars in sales annually. That's more than Kroger, Target, Costco, and Walgreens combined. And the incredible facts don't end there. FREE AppDownload
Chris Jackson/Getty ImagesVirgin Group founder and chairman Richard Branson. As we shake off the summer malaise and head into fall, it's the perfect time to read some motivational and insightful business books. And there's no shortage of good material. Coming out in the next two months are memoirs packed with advice, like Virgin Group founder Richard Branson's "The Virgin Way: Everything I Know About Leadership;" post-recession financial analysis, like Martin Wolf's "The Shifts and the Shocks: What We've Learned — and Have Still to Learn — from the Financial Crisis;" and useful professional guides, like Steven Pinker's "The Sense of Style: The Thinking Person's Guide to Writing in the 21st Century." We've gathered some of the fall's most interesting and valuable books to add to your reading list. Some are available now and others are available for pre-order. FREE AppDownload
Thomas Jefferson High SchoolRecognize this handsome CEO?School is back in session.  Before they were masters of the universe, the biggest names on Wall Street were once just regular high school kids, too.   They were members of sports and academic teams.  They were on the homecoming court.  They entered essay contests, edited the school's literary magazine and starred in musicals. We combed through a number of high school yearbooks and have compiled photos and accomplishments of some of the Street's most recognizable names. Some of them still look the same, while others have drastically improved their hairdos.  We even found Goldman's CEO Lloyd Blankfein in his swim trunks.  Enjoy!  FREE AppDownload
Architects around the globe are racing to build the world's first 3D printed houses — a breakthrough with profound implications for housing affordability and customization. In China, a company named Winsun this year said it built 10 3D printed houses in just one day. The reported cost for each: just $5,000. In Amsterdam, a team of architects has started construction of the 3D Print Canal House, using bio-based, renewable materials. The site is both construction site and public museum; President Obama was among the visitors this year. Hedwig Heinsman, co-founder of DUS architects, the team behind the project, tells Business Insider that in addition to being ec0-friendly, "The main goal, I think, is really to deliver custom-made architecture." 3D printers build structures layer by layer. But at USC in California, Professor Behrokh Khoshnevis is pushing the fabrication process one step further with what he calls "contour crafting." He hopes to develop a gigantic 3D printer, able to print whole house in a single run, from its structure to its electrical and plumbing conduits. The revolution in 3D printed housing, in other words, is well underway. Produced by France Costrel. Edited by Sam Rega.
Cameron Spencer/Getty ImagesIn the global currency market right now, everybody is in everybody else's business. In a note on Tuesday, Steve Englander, Global Head of G10 FX Strategy at Citi, argues that every major foreign exchange trade in place right now is a carry trade.  Simply put, a carry trade is one where a trader sells one asset and uses the proceeds to buy another, in this case selling one currency to buy another.  Englander says these are the four trades currently in place: As Englander sees it, there are five main risks to these trades. Among these risks is that the "yield advantage" — which is the reason why you'd put on a carry trade at all — is at multi-year highs when adjusted for volatility. This chart from Englander illustrates this point nicely. The red arrows show the difference between what U.S. and Japanese treasuries imply the yen is worth against the dollar, with bonds implying the yen is worth about 110 against the dollar, while spot prices currently peg the yen at about 102.  Citi And this difference is even more dramatic when looking at the dollar versus the euro. Citi Englander also notes that these trades are "highly dependent" on what policymakers do: the first trade depends on Chinese policymaker tolerance of CNH appreciation and positioning; the second on explicit easing measures by the ECB and BoJ; and the last two trades stay intact only if the Fed normalization path is extremely shallow, meaning only if the Fed raises rates slowly once it begins that process. And while discussing the positioning of currency trades is all very "inside baseball," this stuff matters because nothing can impact an economy more drastically than a big swing in the value of its currency.  We often focus on the prices of stocks and bonds, but the reality is as the largest market in the world, big changes in the currency market send big shocks through the global economy.  Englander says the U.S. jobs report this Friday and the Fed's next monetary policy announcement on Sept. 17 could be potential triggers to unwind these trades, but "more sensitivity" in these trades is likely after the Fed ends its QE program, which is currently expected to wrap up in October.  Just something to keep in mind.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERSBrazilian President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva (rear L in car) rides with Sao Paulo State Governor, Geraldo Alckmin, in a Volkswagen Polo inside the company's assembly plant in Sao Bernardo do Campo, March 24, 2003(Reuters) - Volkswagen AG spied on Brazilian union activists in the 1980s and passed sensitive information about wage demands and other private discussions to the country's military dictatorship, according to newly uncovered documents seen by Reuters. The company covertly monitored its own workers as well as prominent union leaders of the era. One of VW's targets was Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, who went on to become Brazil's president from 2003 to 2010 and remains one of its most influential politicians. The documents were recently discovered in government archives by a special "truth commission" that, at the request of Brazil's current president, Dilma Rousseff, is investigating abuses that occurred during the 1964-1985 regime. Reuters reported last month that the commission found signs that dozens of companies, including Volkswagen (VOWG_p.DE) and other foreign automakers, helped the military identify union activists in the 1980s to suppress labor unrest. Now, according to the commission's leaders, 20 pages of documents marked "confidential" that Volkswagen gave to the military in 1983 and 1984 provide the clearest proof yet that some companies went further - gathering their own intelligence on union activities and sharing it with authorities. In the documents, Volkswagen provided extensive accounts of more than a dozen union meetings in Greater Sao Paulo. The company relayed workers' plans for strikes as well as their demands for better salaries and working conditions. REUTERSA man cleans the area around the stalled assembly line at the Volkswagen plant in Sao Bernardo do Campo, Brazil.The company reported the names of Volkswagen workers who attended union events and, in at least two cases, noted the make and license plate numbers of vehicles present. Volkswagen also reported the showing of a socialist-themed film at a union headquarters; the contents of flyers distributed outside its factory doors and the names of those distributing them; and an incident in which "several addicted workers were caught smoking marijuana." Such information was typically used by police to monitor, harass and detain union activists in the hope of discouraging future unrest, said Sebastiao Neto, a member of the National Truth Commission. He cited testimony the group has gathered from workers who met with such treatment. "These documents show with exceptional clarity how companies expected the government to help them solve their problems with their workers," said Neto, who is overseeing the commission's research of links between companies and the military. Companies could face civil lawsuits or demands for reparations if they are found to have contributed to human rights violations of their workers during the dictatorship, some Brazilian prosecutors have said. Others doubt that the evidence uncovered so far would be sufficient to mount a court case. They say the investigation's true value lies in building a fuller account of past abuses so that Brazil, now a stable democracy and economic power, never repeats the mistakes of the dark period. The documents were found in Brazil’s national archive by professional historians who were hired by a local union to work in coordination with the National Truth Commission. Neto said they would be included in the group’s final report, due in December. VW VOWS INVESTIGATION In response to questions from Reuters about the new documents, Volkswagen repeated a vow it first made last month to "investigate all indications" that employees provided information to the military. No other large company with operations in Brazil has yet publicly committed to such an investigation. "Volkswagen is acknowledged to be a model for coming to terms with its corporate history," the company said in a statement. "The company will handle this topic in the same way." REUTERS/Nacho DoceBrazilian workers assemble a Volkswagen car at the Sao Bernardo do Campo Volkswagen plant, near Sao Paulo. Volkswagen has repeatedly surfaced in the truth commission's probe as a prolific supplier of information. It wasn't the only company that helped the military track union activities, however, researchers and academics say. The dictatorship suppressed workers' wages as a central part of its economic growth model and saw strikes as a communist threat to stability. Countless companies faced pressure to collaborate. Volkswagen was one of 19 Brazilian and foreign companies that attended regular meetings with military and police officials in the Paraiba River Valley, an industrial area some 55 miles (90 km) east of Sao Paulo. The meetings began in July 1983 at a time of growing labor unrest in the area. At the meetings, the companies exchanged information about coming strikes and mass layoffs, according to notes of the meetings made by Brazil's Air Force. In the Air Force minutes, which were provided to Reuters by Truth Commission researchers, Volkswagen was the only company recorded to have submitted its own extended written accounts of union activities. It did so on at least three occasions. The documents were attached as an annex to the minutes. They don't state how Volkswagen obtained the information. But the intimate level of detail suggests the company may have sent security personnel to monitor union events or received information from sympathetic workers, researchers say. For example, Volkswagen reported on the showing of a film about the Russian Revolution at a union headquarters. In a memo, VW described how workers blocked the doors to the projection room and deactivated the building's elevator "to avoid a possible seizure of the film by the Censorship Department of the Federal Police." The memo noted that "warm wine, popcorn and chocolate" were available at the screening, and it recorded the name of the worker who sold them. REUTERS/Cesar FerrariBrazilian workers at Volkswagen's Sao Jose dos Pinhais factory disperse after attending an employee's assembly in Curitiba.Volkswagen also extensively documented a union rally of June 19, 1983, that featured Lula. He was not a company employee but was a rising star in the regional labor movement at the time. Volkswagen quoted Lula as criticizing the "lack of shame of the government" and encouraging workers to stop paying into a government housing fund as a gesture of protest. The company recorded the license plate number of a bus that carried workers to Brasilia after the rally, and the name of the company that operated it. A spokesman for Lula declined to comment on the documents. Geovaldo Gomes dos Santos, a former quality control official who retired from Volkswagen in 2003, was named in the documents as having organized a meeting on June 21, 1983, to discuss a coming regional conference of metalworkers. Dos Santos's name also appeared in a separate "black list" of union activists in Greater Sao Paulo that police assembled in the early 1980s, the existence of which Reuters revealed last month. Told that he also appears in the new set of documents, Dos Santos said: "That's absurd." He said that in light of the information, he may try to sue Volkswagen or its former executives for "moral damage" - a broad offense under Brazilian law roughly akin to harassment. "I don't want any money," he said. "It's just so disgusting, what they did. We weren't doing anything abnormal. Why were they spying on us? Unions should just be a normal part of capitalism."   (Editing by Todd Benson and Michael Williams) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Gary CameronA tourist uses a video camera atop a Big Bus double-decker tour bus as the tour passes the Federal Reserve Building headquarters in Washington.NEW YORK (Reuters) - A majority of Wall Street's top bond firms see the Federal Reserve starting to raise interest rates by the second quarter of next year, showing slightly more aggressive expectations compared with a month ago, a Reuters survey showed on Friday. Nine of 17 primary dealers, the banks that deal directly with the Fed, said the U.S. central bank's first rate increase would occur in the second quarter of 2015, the survey found. In a survey taken in early August, six of 19 dealers had expected such a move. All but five of the 22 primary dealers participated in the latest survey. The view that the Fed has accelerated its timeline for raising rates came even after Friday’s monthly employment report, which showed that U.S. employers hired the fewest number of workers in eight months in August and that more Americans gave up the hunt for jobs. Nonfarm payrolls increased 142,000 last month, missing economists’ median expectation of a gain of 225,000, after expanding by 212,000 in July. "This jobs report is effectively meaningless for Fed policy. It’s one weak month, but the trends still look healthy. We don’t really see a big issue there," said Drew Matus, an economist at UBS in New York. Fed Chair Janet Yellen said in a speech at an annual conference in Jackson Hole, Wyoming, on Aug. 22 that the U.S. central bank should move cautiously in deciding when to raise interest rates given that the country's labor market remains bruised from the Great Recession. The Fed's next policy meeting will be held on Sept. 16-17. In the survey, eight of 15 Wall Street firms expected the Fed would stop reinvesting the proceeds from maturing bonds it holds on its roughly $4.5 trillion balance sheet in 2016, with six of those believing the halt would occur in the first quarter of that year. The number of Wall Street firms that expected the halt in reinvestments to occur in 2016 was slightly fewer than it had been in early August, when nine of 16 dealers expected the move to occur in 2016. FED FUNDS SEEN TOPPING OUT AT 3.75 The median forecast among dealers for the federal funds rate at the end of next year was 1 percent, while the median forecast for the end of 2016 was 2.50 percent. The median forecast for the federal funds rate's upper limit was 3.75 percent. Since December 2008, the Fed has targeted a range of zero to 0.25 percent for its key funds rate. Among 14 primary dealers, the median forecast for the Fed's long-term neutral target rate, which is seen as a level that promotes growth without stoking inflation, was 3.50 percent. This was below the current 3.75 percent estimate from Fed officials, based on their median June forecast.   (Additional reporting by Michael Connor, Gertrude Chavez-Dreyfuss, Daniel Bases, Ryan Vlastelica, Sam Adams, Akane Otani and Richard Leong in New York; and Hari Kishan and Kailash Bathija in Bangalore; Editing by Leslie Adler) FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesNEW YORK (Reuters) - Leveraged exchange-traded funds, designed to magnify short-term returns, have fallen out of favor this year as investors who had embraced them are finding costs excessive in a calm market that is not rewarding bets on wild daily swings. The funds may continue to lack appeal as markets show no indication that fear will enter into the trading equation anytime soon, with equities shrugging off all manner of negative headlines. Broad-market volume is down this year, with the most widely traded ETF, the SPDR S&amp;P fund, posting a 13.8 percent drop in August from a year ago. Leveraged funds are getting hit even harder, with declines of 25 to 30 percent. Leveraged ETFs aim to offer daily returns at a multiple to an underlying index. But the funds carry high expense ratios and trading costs, making them less appealing because small daily moves are not enough to justify the expense. Market volatility has been non-existent of late. The CBOE Volatility Index lately traded at 12.73, after having fallen in July to its lowest level since February 2007, at 10.28. "In such a low-volatility environment, the institutional firms that use leveraged funds to hedge may not feel they're worth the cost," said Joel Dickson, senior ETF strategist at Vanguard in Valley Forge, Pennsylvania. The funds are designed to be one-day holdings, and purchasing and selling a fund in the same session results in twice the commissions and fees that a trader has to pay compared with a buy-and-hold investor. Those costs, along with the low volatility, "further eat up whatever profits might result," Dickson said. The ProShares Ultra S&amp;P 500 fund, which offers double the daily return of the S&amp;P 500, has both a gross expense ratio and a net expense ratio of 0.9 percent, far greater than the SPDR S&amp;P 500 fund, which has a GRE of 0.1 percent and a NER of 0.0945 percent. Another fund, the Direxion Small Cap Bull 3X Shares, has a gross expense ratio of 1.07 percent and a net expense ratio of 0.95 percent. "The fees are really high by ETF standards, and they're not as cost effective as they would be if we were getting big market moves," said Michael Rawson, fund analyst at Morningstar in Chicago. "In proportion to the returns you could potentially get they're not so bad, but if you're speculating on the market you could go out and just buy high-momentum stocks." In addition to the expense ratios, leveraged funds negotiate a total-return swap with major banks in order to get the necessary exposure to deliver the promised multiple. The cost of these swaps are not "always disclosed, but they're generally not cheap," said Dave Nadig, chief investment officer at ETF.com in San Francisco, who estimated the costs at 50 basis points to 2.5 percent "depending on what's being swapped. That comes out of your total return." LOW VOLATILITY, LOW VOLUME The VIX is well below its long-term average of 20, and overall market moves have been slim of late. Over the past 250 sessions the S&amp;P's average daily move, either up or down, has been 14.29 points, or about 0.7 percent. That's an average that has been rarely hit recently. Total August trading volume for the ProShares S&amp;P fund fell 34 percent from August 2013, though shares are up 17.4 percent on the year. Volume fell 26 percent at the ProShares UltraShort S&amp;P 500 ETF, which corresponds to twice the inverse daily move of the S&amp;P, and 33 percent for the Direxion small-cap fund, which attempts to offer three times the daily move of the Russell 2000. "Not only is volatility exceptionally low, but general interest levels have been declining," said Stephen Sachs, head of capital markets at ProShares in Bethesda, Maryland. Alternative ETF providers like ProShares are not trading outfits, so they have not been directly affected by the drops in trading action. They make money from management fees that are tied to a fund's assets under management and are "within normal ebbs and flows" in the current environment, Sachs said. Other fund providers, including Direxion and VelocityShares, also said they were not experiencing significant declines in revenue from the current environment, and are not planning any changes to their business - such as launching or closing funds.   (Editing by Leslie Adler) FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesMario Draghi. This week, ECB chief Mario Draghi unveiled a slew of new measures designed to boost the eurozone economy and prevent deflation. In addition to cutting interest rates, Draghi also committed to buying assets, in a strategy that some might liken to Quantitative Easing (though he's not buying government bonds). Naturally, there's a lot of skepticism about whether the measures can really revive the ailing eurozone economies. Well, here's one reason to be a little bit optimistic. It comes from Lorcan Roche Kelly of Agenda Research: Another bullish sign for today’s measures was the lack of unanimity on the governing council for the measures announced. If someone – presumably the Bundesbank – is dissenting, it is almost always a good sign for the effectiveness of new policies. Normally, in monetary policy, you hope to see unanimity. But this is a clever point. The Germans are loathe to support anything that is actually reinflating the economy through monetary policy. Tight money is kind of a religion at the Bundesbank (the German central bank). So if the Germans don't like what Draghi is doing, it's a sign that he's doing something potent. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Michelle McLoughlinRobert ShillerThe stock market continues to hit new highs. On Friday, the S&amp;P 500 closed at a record 2,007. And the market is not cheap. Relative to earnings, the market is looking unusually expensive. One of the most closely followed valuation metrics is the cyclically adjusted price-earnings (CAPE) ratio. Popularized by Nobel prize winner Robert Shiller, the CAPE ratio is the price of the stock market divided by the average of 10 years' worth of earnings. Robert Shiller"As of yesterday my price earnings ratio ... was 26.3," said Shiller to This Is Money. "There's only three major occasions in US history back to 1881 when it was higher than that. One is 1929, the year of the crash. The other is 2000, which I call the peak of the millennium bubble, and it was also followed by a crash. And then 2007, which was also followed by a crash." This is not news. Every bear and scaremonger forecasting a crash has made this point. "But ..." says Shiller. "But that's only three observations so I don't say that it necessarily has to do the same thing," said Shiller. Yes, every time valuations hit these levels, the market crashed. But three isn't exactly a large sample. Who's to say valuations won't mean-revert in an orderly, non-crash fashion? Stock prices don't even have to fall. Earnings just have to keep rising. So, you may want to factor in other considerations before you decide to dump stocks. "...but it is cause for concern," Shiller continued. Read the whole interview at ThisIsMoney. FREE AppDownload
Federico CiccareseAn artist's rendering of Apple's smartwatch. SAN FRANCISCO - Apple Inc has invited top fashion editors and bloggers in unprecedented numbers to its Tuesday launch gala, further evidence that the iPhone maker is preparing to take the wraps off a smartwatch. Apple is forging closer ties to the fashion world as it plots its foray into the fertile field of wearable technology, trying to win over a critical crowd that may prove crucial to the success of consumer gadgets worn around the body. A smartwatch would represent Chief Executive Officer Tim Cook's first real new product since taking the baton from Steve Jobs. Several fashion media editors told Reuters they received invitations for the first time to an annual September product-launch, which they took as confirmation of a wristwatch in the wings. "I assume it's because they are unveiling a wearable," said Lea Goldman, features and special projects director for Marie Claire magazine, a first-time invitee. "This suggests Apple is serious about tapping into the fashion world, which often sits on the sidelines." Apple declined to comment. The iPhone maker, known for its sleek aesthetic, has made overtures to the fashion press in the past. It typically opts to host a separate event in New York where editors meet the team and review products, two fashion editors say. That courtship has grown more aggressive. Last month, the company hosted what it called a "first-of-its-kind event" at an Apple Store in New York to showcase fashion and retail apps to a group of style editors, according to an invitation seen by Reuters. Fashion site Refinery29's health and science director Kelly Bourdet said the decision to include fashion editors on the invite-list is a "nod to the fashion crowd." Apple seems poised to network with the who's who of the industry. In the past year or two, it has hired Patrick Pruniaux, former vice president of Tag Heuer's global sales and retail; Angela Ahrendts, former chief executive of Burberry Inc; and former Yves Saint Laurent CEO Paul Deneve joined as vice president of special projects. It is not just Apple. From Google Inc to LG Electronics Inc and Intel Corp, technology companies are beginning to forge fashion ties. On Friday, Intel announced a tie-up with Fossil Group on wearable technology. Sonny Vu, chief executive of Misfit Wearables, expects more tie-ups as tech companies ramp up the fashion quotient in smartwatches, given that the current crop of watches has received mixed reviews. The challenge for technology companies is to make something "fashionable off the bat" that is not clunky, said Eric Wilson, fashion news director for InStyle Magazine. He and other editors said they harbored high hopes for Apple and planned to monitor Tuesday's event. "It confirms that they have a play in wearables and that they want to appeal to the fashion world, and not just technology consumers," said Lauren Indvik, editor in chief for Fashionista and another first-time invitee.   (Editing by Edwin Chan) FREE AppDownload
