Investors are not happy with Oracle right now and it cost its co-founder and CTO Larry Ellison, close to $2 billion on Friday. Ellison is Oracle's largest shareholder with over 1 billion shares, a 25% stake. So he gets hurt when the stock drops as it did by about 4% on Friday. That's because Oracle reported yet another weaker-than-expected quarter on Thursday. It was a miss on both revenue and profit. The big surprise was that Ellison was relinquishing the title of CEO. He will henceforth be known as executive chairman and CTO. His right-hand woman, Safra Catz, and right-hand man, Mark Hurd, both presidents, would be elevated to co-CEOs. The news was shocking only because Ellison, 70, had never even hinted at a retirement or a succession plan before. The truth is, the title change was only a gesture. All three execs will continue to their jobs exactly the same. Catz said point blank on the quarterly conference call with analysts when asked about the shakeup, "There will actually be no changes, no significant changes." Bill Kreher, technology analyst for Edward Jones, told Business Insider: "Mark and Safra have worked closely with Larry for a long time, doing a lot of executive duties anyhow. This is Larry’s way of giving them proper recognition for all the work they’ve done and letting them know they've got long-term job security. He's not out looking for the next CEO outside of Oracle." Ellison will still be on quarterly conference calls with analysts too. When Wells Fargo Jason Maynard told Ellison he'd miss him on the calls, Ellison got a big laugh with his reply, "You should be so lucky. I am staying on the calls." In the meantime, investors want to know what Oracle is really doing to fix its sluggish business. Deutsche Bank downgraded Oracle on Friday from buy to hold, citing the "decelerated ... health of its core database business" and said it was "disappointed in hardware product sales (down 14%)" While JMP Group didn't downgrade the stock, it did lower its profit estimate, saying, "We feel that Oracle is facing significant challenges both in its core database and its applications businesses." Market research firm Forrester was even sharper-tongued. In a research note published on Friday, it said, "The root causes of Oracle’s challenges remain in place." Forrester thinks the company needs to move faster on the cloud and "eliminate barriers" for that change including a "sprawling" number of software products; trying to get its hardware business going; and "Oracle’s sales culture focuses account managers on hitting short-term targets often at the expense of delivering long-term customer value." Oracle isn't in dire straits. Although it fell short of expectations, total revenue was up 3% to $8.6 billion over the year-ago quarter. And Oracle did show progress with the cloud. Cloud revenue was up 32% to $337 million. But that's a drop in the bucket to what Oracle makes on its traditional software licenses: $1.37 billion in the quarter. And it's far behind competitor Salesforce.com, who only sells software via the cloud. Salesforce.com had revenue of $1.32 billion in its last quarter.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersOracle Corp CEO Ellison introduces the Oracle Database In-Memory during a launch event in Redwood ShoresBy Jeffrey Dastin and Sam Adams NEW YORK (Reuters) - If Larry Ellison sailed off on his yacht for good tomorrow, who would really run Oracle Corp ? Reuters asked a cast of Wall Streets analysts, and the verdict is dealmaker and finance guru Safra Catz. The question is on investors' minds after Ellison, 70, promoted both Catz and sales leader Mark Hurd to the CEO position on Thursday, while taking on the role of executive chairman and chief technology officer himself. The move appears to be the first stage of Ellison's gradual withdrawal. But what if Ellison disappeared immediately? Of 12 analysts who replied to an anonymous poll, five said Catz would likely run Oracle, while only one voted for Hurd, 57. Four said both would continue to run the company, one said neither, and one plumped for dark-horse internal candidate  Thomas Kurian. Oracle did not respond to a request for comment. Votes in favor of Catz, the 52-year old former Wall Street banker who orchestrated Oracle's multibillion dollar acquisitions and has been Ellison's de facto deputy for the last few years, stressed her 15 years of experience at the company. Hurd, who only joined Oracle in 2010 after leaving Hewlett-Packard  under the cloud of a business ethics breach, has a larger public presence but is still seen as a newcomer. "In a CEO cage match it's pretty even, but I give Safra extra credit for her years of service with the company," said Kim Forrest at Fort Pitt Capital. "She likely knows the lay of the land better." Only one analyst said Hurd was the more likely to lead the company, chiefly because he is the one with experience of being the CEO of a large technology company. One analyst said neither would likely be CEO, echoing sentiments that Ellison does not fully back either candidate to solely run the company he co-founded 37 years ago and built into a $40 billion-a-year giant. "It’s pretty clear that part of the board doesn’t fully trust Mark Hurd and part of the board doesn’t think she (Catz) has the technology depth,” said Jeffrey Sonnenfeld, professor at the Yale School of Management, who was not part of the poll. Most analysts think the co-CEO arrangement should work in the short term, but questions remain over how long it will last. "I don't know the timing - it could be three, it could be five years - there may be one (CEO) down the road," said  Gartner analyst Chad Eschinger. He would not be drawn on who that might be. One figure not mentioned in Thursday's reshuffle was 47-year-old Kurian, Oracle's executive vice president in charge of product development, who reports directly to Ellison and has been seen as a rising power in the company. "Perhaps he did not feel comfortable in the role as a front man, although he does do a solid job in his presentations," said Bill Kreher, an analyst at Edward Jones. "He’s a few years younger (than Catz and Hurd), so perhaps his time will come."  (Additional reporting by Sarah McBride in San Francisco and Bill Rigby in Seattle; Editing by Ken Wills) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Gary CameronU.S. Federal Reserve Board chair Janet Yellen delivers opening remarks at her news conference in Washington September 17, 2014.Market observers are parsing every comment from the Federal Reserve (Fed)’s most recent statement and Fed Chair Janet Yellen’s accompanying press conference, trying to determine where the Fed’s words fall on the “dovish” to “hawkish” spectrum. If I had to weigh in on the debate, I’d say the September Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) policy statement was “hawkish.” But more importantly than such nomenclature, I believe there were five signs in the statement that the anticipated pace of policy rate hikes is going to be quicker than markets have expected. Toned down “dovish” phrases. While the September statement retained both “keyword phrases” that are interpreted as highly dovish (“maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate for a considerable time” and “significant underutilization of labor resources”), Fed Chair Yellen appeared to dilute the strength of the “considerable time” language in her press conference, implying that a “considerable time” could be a shorter time period than many expect. Back in March, Chair Yellen, perhaps mistakenly, said that a “considerable time” was six months. Then, at her September press conference, she said “a considerable time” isn’t mechanical, shouldn’t be read explicitly in calendar terms, will be data dependent and could come sooner than many expect. In other words, it could be three months, or if data weaken, it could be 12 months. Given that current economic data are solid, as the Fed acknowledges (see more on that below), a “considerable time” is likely to be shorter rather than longer. In other words, to me, Chair Yellen’s comments go a long way toward weakening the Fed’s dovish language. Revised estimates of the path of policy rates. A bit incongruously with the aforementioned key dovish statements, the FOMC signaled a meaningful upward revision in the Fed funds policy rate for the year-end of both 2015 and 2016. Acknowledgment that the economy is improving. I anticipate that the weak August payroll report will be revised higher and that inflation should firm. Along with their revised expectation of the path of policy rates, Fed officials seem to be on the same page as me. They acknowledged the broad-based tightening in employment conditions over the past several months as well as today’s stable inflationary conditions, and they released updated economic projections. While Fed officials believe real gross domestic product (GDP) will come in lower than expected in 2014 and 2015, the FOMC members acknowledged that the unemployment rate is likely to decline more rapidly than anticipated. Further, their inflation projections remained fairly stable, trending toward the long-run goal of 2% near the end of 2017. An increasingly active debate about the future path of policy rates is underway at the Fed today. The most recent statement made it clear that there’s increasingly active debate within the FOMC over the appropriate path of interest-rate policy given how far the economy has come. As I previously suggested would likely be the case, Dallas Fed Reserve Bank President Richard Fisher has joined with his Philadelphia Bank colleague Charles Plosser in dissenting from the policy statement as written. These FOMC members believe that the economic recovery places the Fed closer to its policy goals than the September statement would suggest, a sentiment I wholeheartedly agree with. A refined set of principles for rate normalization. Finally, the FOMC clearly instituted a refined set of principles for the process of rate normalization, suggesting that normalization is very much part of its thought process today. This is despite Chair Yellen’s suggestion in the press conference that we should not take the policy normalization principles that way. Chair Yellen “doth protest too much, methinks,” on that count at least, to quote The Bard. The upshot of all the above: The Fed is closer to its stated policy goals, and thus to rate normalization. I still believe that the Fed is likely to begin rate normalization sooner than many expect, possibly as early as March and very likely within the first half of 2015. Though it’s important to note that while the Fed will likely move faster than many anticipate, given the pace of economic growth and its targeted objectives, the pace of normalization and the ultimate destination of rates will be slower and lower than in past hiking cycles. The bottom line: I’ve grown skeptical of the utility of excessively low policy rate levels, so I’m optimistic that they will be gone sooner rather than later, particularly as the economy is on a solid path. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia Commons(Reuters) - A Brooklyn, New York mortgage broker, who would scribble secret stock tips on napkins and pass them to an accomplice in Grand Central station before eating them, pleaded guilty to insider trading on Friday, federal prosecutors said. Frank Tamayo, 41, was the middleman in what prosecutors called a three-man scheme that generated $5.6 million in illegal profits over five years, based on tips about a dozen transactions being negotiated by a prestigious New York law firm. Tamayo, who had been cooperating with authorities, pleaded guilty to securities fraud, tender offer fraud, and conspiracy charges in the federal court in Trenton, New Jersey, according to U.S. Attorney Paul Fishman in New Jersey. The defendant also agreed to forfeit more than $1 million, the contents of two brokerage accounts, and a 2008 Audi Q7. He faces up to 20 years in prison on the fraud counts. Matthew Beck, a lawyer for Tamayo, did not immediately respond to a request for comment. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filed related civil charges. Authorities had in March accused Steven Metro, a managing clerk at Simpson Thacher &amp; Bartlett, of passing tips about the law firm's clients through Tamayo to Morgan Stanley stockbroker Vladimir Eydelman, who would then trade for himself, his family, customers and Tamayo. Prosecutors said the scheme lacked sophisticated computerized techniques or cover-ups now often associated with insider trading. Rather, they said Tamayo would typically meet Metro, a friend and former law school classmate, at Manhattan bars or coffee shops, and write the ticker symbols of stocks to be bought on napkins or Post-It notes. Tamayo would then meet Eydelman near the main clock in Grand Central, show him a symbol and, once satisfied Eydelman had memorized it, "chew the paper or napkin to destroy it," prosecutors said. The scheme allegedly began in February 2009 when Metro told Tamayo that Liberty Media Corp might invest in Sirius XM Radio, then on the verge of bankruptcy. Tamayo then allegedly told Eydelman to add to his existing Sirius stake, saying a "source" had alerted him to the bailout. Authorities said Tamayo this year began recording conversations with the other defendants, including on Feb. 20 when Eydelman gave him a cigar box containing $7,000 meant to help Metro buy and renovate a new home. "Take these cigars, put it to good use," Eydelman told Tamayo, court papers show. Metro made just $168,000 from the scheme, prosecutors said. The case echoed a 2011 prosecution in New Jersey, where a lawyer admitted to passing merger tips to a trader, helped by a middleman who was also a mortgage broker, and also eventually cooperated with authorities. Lawyers for Eydelman, of Colts Neck, New Jersey, and Metro, of Katonah, New York, did not immediately respond on Friday to requests for comment. Eydelman and Metro have both been fired from their respective employers. The case is U.S. v. Tamayo, U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey.       (Reporting by Jonathan Stempel in New York; Editing by Alden Bentley) FREE AppDownload
© AFP Josep LagoCatalans waves Esteladas (the Catalan independence flag) outside the Parliament of Catalonia in Barcelona on September 19, 2014Barcelona (AFP) - The Spanish government on Friday welcomed Scotland's "No" vote on independence, but Catalans determined to break away from Spain pushed ahead defiantly for their own ballot on self-rule. Nationalists in the northeastern Catalonia region keenly watched the result from Scotland, knowing a "Yes" result there would fire up their own campaign to hold a vote -- a move fiercely opposed by Spain's central government. "We are very happy that Scotland is staying with us," Spain's Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy said, hailing the result as the best outcome "for themselves, for all of Britain and for the rest of Europe". But in Catalonia, supporters of independence were undaunted. Just hours after the results of the Scottish referendum were announced, Catalonia's parliament passed a law that its leaders say will authorise them to hold a non-binding "consultation" on independence from Spain. The law was passed with 106 votes in favour and 28 against. The region's president Artur Mas said his bid to hold a vote on independence from Spain had been "strengthened" by Scotland's referendum regardless of the result and despite Madrid's fierce resistance. "The process in Catalonia continues and is moving ahead," Mas told a news conference in Barcelona on Friday. "The Catalan process is strengthened because we have seen how an EU country can agree to allow a vote," he said. Mas is now expected to sign a decree formally calling the vote for November 9. Rajoy has branded the planned vote illegal and vowed to defend the unity of Spain. His government intends to block the ballot by appealing to the Constitutional Court.   - Scottish 'stability' relieves Spain -   Supporters of independence for Catalonia were inspired by the referendum in Scotland, but complained that whereas the British government approved those polls, Madrid was denying Catalans a similar vote. Britain's Prime Minister David Cameron, despite opposing independence, has promised more powers over tax, spending and welfare to Scotland's devolved government. In the wake of the referendum result, he extended that offer to the rest of the United Kingdom. His stance drew envy among pro-independence Catalans. "Scotland has voted and will achieve more autonomy, whereas we are not even being allowed to vote," said Joan Rabasseda, the mayor of Arenys de Munt, a staunchly pro-independence town north of Barcelona. "I would have liked the 'Yes' vote to win in Scotland in order to open up a debate at a European level. We will have to hope that debate opens up at least in Catalonia," he said. The "No" vote was one less headache for Rajoy as he resists Mas's campaign, while working to consolidate Spain's recovery from recession. Scots "have chosen between segregation and integration, between isolation and openness, between stability and uncertainty", Rajoy said in a recorded video message on Friday. The leader of Spain's main opposition Socialist Party, Pedro Sanchez, welcomed the Scottish result and reiterated his party's call for a "reform of the constitution" to respond to regional demands. Proud of their distinct Catalan language and culture, many of Catalonia's 7.5 million inhabitants feel short-changed by the national government in Madrid, which redistributes their taxes. Catalonia formally adopted the status of a "nation" in 2006 but Spain's Constitutional Court later overruled that claim. At the height of Spain's economic crisis in 2012, Rajoy rejected Mas's demand to give Catalonia more power to tax and spend. "Madrid should understand that if the only way is to block the Catalan consultation using the legal frameworks, this is something that is not going to work," Mas said in English. "The only way to resolve this Catalan democratic challenge is to sit down at the table to talk about the referendum, to agree the terms of the referendum, to listen to each other and to make possible that Catalan people vote."   FREE AppDownload
Contrary to the Federal Reserve’s forecast in its “dots,” a labor market conditions index from the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City suggests the timing of the Fed’s first rate hike should be no earlier than late 2015, or possibly even 2016. The index, cited by Yellen in her recent Jackson Hole speech, uses 19 labor market indicators to measure overall job market conditions. In the prior two rate hike cycles, the index was positive before the Fed began raising rates. The underutilization in the labor market, combined with recent inflation softness, suggests the Fed should maintain the current level of policy rate for a considerable period of time. Guggenheim FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe Yahoo logo is shown at the company's headquarters in SunnyvaleNEW YORK (Reuters) - Alibaba Group Holding Ltd's record public offering of shares on Friday further spurred already elevated activity in Yahoo Inc's options, pushing volume on the U.S. Internet company to a one-day record high. Shares of Alibaba, in which Yahoo holds a big stake, surged 38 percent in their first day of trading on Friday, valuing the company at $231 billion by the close of trading. Investors eager for a bite of the Chinese e-commerce giant had turned their attention to Yahoo options in recent days, sending options volume in Yahoo steadily higher over the last month. Yahoo sold some $8 billion worth of shares in the offering, but it still has a 16.3 percent stake in the company. Options trading in Yahoo spiked to 5.4 times normal, with a record 1.83 million contracts traded, nearly 35 percent higher than the previous one-day record set in 2008, according to options analytics firm Trade Alert data. About 1.26 million calls and 568,000 puts traded on Friday. The calls leading puts is consistent with the run-up into the Alibaba IPO over the past two weeks, Henry Schwartz, president at Trade Alert said. The 30-day implied volatility in Yahoo's options was down about 18.1 percent at 41.56 percent on Friday, according to data from options analytics firm Livevol Inc. The drop in the implied volatility is a result of the "risk" around the Alibaba IPO being out of the way, Ophir Gottlieb, chief executive officer at Los Angeles-based Capital Market Laboratories LLC, said. Yahoo shares lost 2.7 percent to close at $40.93 on Nasdaq on Friday with about 222 million shares traded, its busiest day since May 2008.   (Reporting by Saqib Iqbal Ahmed; Editing by James Dalgleish) FREE AppDownload
AcuraThe 1995 Acura NSX-T.The adventures of former Oracle CEO Larry Ellison are well chronicled. His possessions including everything from luxury mega-yachts to fighter jets to his own Hawaiian Island. However, what's even more interesting are things the Silicon Valley titan chooses to give away as gifts.  Ellison has long been a fan of Japanese culture. He owns an $86 million villa in Kyoto, Japan along with as many as 500 pieces of Japanese art. So it should come as no surprise that the Oracle founder's favorite four-wheeled vehicle is one that many believe to be the quintessential Japanese supercar, the Acura/Honda NSX.  In fact, Ellison would reportedly buy a few of these $80,000 rides every year of the model's 15-year production run to give to friends and top employees as gifts and bonuses, reported Complex Magazine and USA Today.  AcuraTwo decades later and it's still a looker.So what makes the NSX so worthy of Ellison's adulation? Well, for one thing, it's got a pedigree. In the late 1980s, Honda (Acura's parent company) was all but unbeatable in the racing world. The company's Formula One engines powered drivers to six consecutive constructor's world champions and five straight driver's world championships. To commemorate its success, the company decided to build what it considered to be the perfect supercar. It would be fast, high-tech, light-weight, and precise-handling.  It would also bring a level of reliability and user-friendliness unseen in the European supercars of the day.  AcuraThe 2004 NSX's 3.2-liter 290hp V6.Power for the NSX would come from a 270hp — later 290hp — V6 loaded with engineering derived from Honda's adventures in F1. To make the car nimble, Honda built most of its supercar from lightweight aluminum. To craft the NSX's sleek body, the company relied upon the its chief designer Ken Okuyama, a man who Ferrari would turn to create its million-dollar Enzo Ferrari hypercar a decade later.  With handling of paramount importance to Honda, the company asked its stable of Formula One talent for help. The NSX's chassis was set up by none other than the great Aryton Senna, who is sadly no longer with us (he died in a racing accident in 1994). AcuraF1 legend Aytron Senna put the NSX prototype through its paces on a test track.From 1990 until it was discontinued in 2005, the cult favorite remained relatively unchanged, with only an updated front headlight design in 2002. As a result, the NSX stayed true to its original theme of lightweight, Japanese precision. AcuraThe 2004 Acura NSX.In an age of high-powered supercars, the NSX goes about its business in a truly understated Japanese manner. No V12 engines. No turbos. No all-wheel drive — and for a long time, no power steering. Just pure driving pleasure. So why does Larry Ellison love the NSX? Probably because it's Honda's defiant "Take that!" for its European and American competitors. Knowing Ellison's brash and aggressive style of business, that sounds like something he would understand. 
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVDavid RosenbergDavid Rosenberg, Chief Economist &amp; Strategist at Gluskin Sheff, surprised everyone when he adopted a more bullish view in 2013. On Friday he released a research note that included a brief and pretty optimistic summary of the US economy. Here's what it said: United States In the US, the economy is starting to fire on all cylinders for the first time this cycle. The strong US dollar is a source of margin support for importers which is great news for many consumer cyclicals. Tack on stepped consumer credit growth, job and wage gains, gasoline price relief, and we have the makings of a solid backdrop to this consumer space heading into the most important shopping season of the year. Capex growth is picking up and spending plans on the rise, and so Industrials and Tech should be price focal areas — earnings revision ratios are now rising the fastest in the Industrials space, followed by Health Care and then Financials. The Fed may have sounded dovish but their forecasts point to rising rates ahead and so the rate-sensitives should largely be avoided. The rising likelihood of stronger-than-expected growth in the next several months means the high-priced defensive areas of the stock market will face the prospect of an outward rotation into the more cyclical segment, though the parts that are more domestic focused than foreign (given soft global growth and firm dollar) make the most sense. That's right. He said "rising likelihood of stronger-than-expected growth." FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersRichard Fisher, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas,speaks during at luncheon in Hong Kong(Reuters) - The United States could be on the verge of a worrisome surge in wages if unemployment continues its downward trend, based on research Dallas Federal Reserve Bank President Richard Fisher presented to his colleagues at the Fed's policy-setting meeting this week. An unpublished paper prepared by his staff showed "declines in the unemployment rate below 6.1 percent exert significantly higher wage pressures than if the rate is above 6.1 percent," Fisher told Reuters in an interview Friday. Fisher said he had his staff analyze state-by-state unemployment and wage data from 1982 to 2013 to try to figure out why wage inflation is emerging in Texas but not elsewhere in the nation. The results, he said he told his colleagues, are "noteworthy and need to be thought through." The U.S. unemployment rate in August was 6.1 percent, exactly the point below which his staff's research showed wages could start to take off. "The number just happened to be 6.1 percent - it is what shook out of the data," Fisher said. The Federal Reserve, which has kept short-term interest rates near zero since December 2008, is expected to begin to tighten policy next year. The precise timing will depend heavily on its assessment of the labor market, which the Fed this week said continues to fall short. "There are still too many people who want jobs but cannot find them, too many who are working part time but would prefer full-time work, and too many who are not searching for a job but would be if the labor market were stronger," Fed Chair Janet Yellen said. Strong job growth in Texas has brought the unemployment rate there down to 5.1 percent. The Dallas Fed estimates current Texas wage inflation at about 3.5 percent, higher than the estimated state-wide inflation rate of 2.5 percent, he said. The Fed targets a U.S. inflation rate of 2.0 percent. Fisher said on Friday he worries that further declines in unemployment nationally could lead to broader wage inflation. To head that off, and also to address what he called rising excesses in financial markets, Fisher said he prefers to raise rates by springtime, sooner than many investors currently anticipate. "I’d like to do it in a slow and gradual way, rather than rapid and sharp," he said. "Historically within the Fed, whenever we’ve waited til we believe we are at some measure of full capacity utilization and then we’ve raised rates, every time we’ve done it we’ve brought about a recession."   (Reporting by Ann Saphir; Editing by Andrea Ricci) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidAlibaba Group Holding Ltd. founder Jack Ma at the New York Stock Exchange for his company's initial public offering (IPO) under the ticker "BABA" in New York on Friday.Alibaba opened for trade at $92.70 per share, up 36% from where its IPO priced. On Friday, Alibaba shares closed at $93.89, up 38% from its IPO pricing. On Thursday night, Alibaba priced its IPO at $68 per share. At that price, the company raised $21.8 billion at a valuation of about $168 billion. At its open price of $92.70, Alibaba's market cap is over $228 billion, and the company raised $29.7 billion. This capital raise marks the largest IPO ever for the US stock market, topping Visa's previous record of $17.9 billion. Shortly after opening for trade, Alibaba shares surged to $99 per share, or up more than 45% from its IPO price. Near 12:05 p.m. ET, shares of Alibaba were off their best levels of the day and trading near the IPO price of $92.70.  As of 12:30 p.m. ET, Alibaba shares had fallen below their initial trade of $92.70 and were trading below $91 per share, about a 32% increase from its $68 IPO price.  Near 1:30 p.m. ET, Alibaba shares were trading near $91 after briefly trading hands below $90.  Headlines from Reuters at 10 a.m. ET said broker TD Ameritrade had customer orders for Alibaba exceeding customer orders for Twitter's IPO by 2 1/2 times. TD Ameritrade also said that as of 6:45 a.m. Friday, half of the company's order book was for Alibaba shares. On CNBC, Scott Cutler of the NYSE said they were seeing "hundreds of thousands of orders" for Alibaba shares. CNBC reported that the first indication for Alibaba shares was at $80 to $83 per share. On Twitter, the FT's Eric Platt reported at about 10:20 a.m. ET that the range was updated to $82 to $85.  On CNBC, the NYSE's Scott Cutler said the IPOs underwriters would use the "greenshoe" provision, which allows them to increase the share offering by 15%, which would bring Alibaba's capital raise to $25 billion.  At about 10:30 a.m. ET, CNBC's Carl Quintanilla said the new indication was that shares would open between $84 and $87. At 10:45 a.m. ET, CNBC's Bob Pisani reported that the indication was upped to $86 to $88. At 10:52 a.m. ET, Pisani reported that the indication was upped to $87 to $89. At about 11 a.m. ET, CNBC reported that the range was increased to $88 to $90. On CNBC, the NYSE's Scott Cutler said that there were still 10 million shares that needed to be matched with buyers. At 11:05 a.m. ET, the range was upped to $89 to $91. At the midpoint of this range, or $90 per share, the company would raise $28.9 billion and be worth just less than $222 billion. At 11:15 a.m. ET, the range was tightened to $90 to $91. At 11:22 a.m. ET, data from Reuters showed that the indication had been upped again to $91 to $92. At 11:27 a.m. ET, Reuters data showed the range was increased again to $92 to $93.  CNBC reported that Alibaba would not start trading for two to three hours, and on Bloomberg TV on Thursday night, George Pearkes of Bespoke Investment Group explained why it would take some time for market in Alibaba shares to get put together and the stock begin trading on Friday.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidAlibaba Group Holding Ltd founder Jack Ma (2nd L) poses as he arrives at the New York Stock Exchange for his company's initial public offering (IPO) under the ticker "BABA" in New York September 19, 2014.Stocks finished Friday mixed as Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba made its debut in the largest IPO in US stock market history. After making new all-time highs on Thursday, the modest gains logged Friday by the Dow marked new all-time highs for the index. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Friday: 1. The biggest story on Friday was the debut of Alibaba, the Chinese e-commerce giant that went public in the largest IPO in US stock market history. Shares of Alibaba priced at $68 on Thursday night, and after taking two hours to make a market Friday morning, the stock began trading at $92.70 on Friday morning. Alibaba shares quickly spiked to more than $99 per share, and after selling off a bit through the day, rallied late in the session to close at $93.89, up 38% from its IPO price. As of Friday's closing price, Alibaba's market cap was more than $231 billion. 2. Alibaba CEO Jack Ma appeared in an interview on CNBC at the New York Stock Exchange Friday morning, and China's richest man told CNBC that one of his biggest inspirations is the movie Forrest Gump. Ma told CNBC's David Faber that even though Gump is a fictional character, "I really like that guy. I've been watching that movie for about ten times. Every time I get frustrated, I watch the movie." 3. Yahoo sold a bit more than $8 billion of its stake in Alibaba as part of the company's IPO, and shares of Yahoo fell 2.7% on Friday. Business Insider's Nicholas Carlson took a closer look at some Yahoo's financials given the company's stake in Alibaba, Yahoo Japan, as well as its own earnings, and found that on Friday, the implied value of Yahoo's core business was about negative $500 million.  4. Apple's latest iPhone models, iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus, went on sale Friday, and citing comments from Piper Jaffray analyst Gene Munster, Business Insider's Jay Yarow noted that there are three scenarios for iPhone sales this weekend for investors to keep in mind: Apple sells a smaller number that suggests limited supply, Apple sells a huge number, or Apple says nothing. Munster expects the company to announce the sale of 6.5 million iPhones this weekend. Analysts at BTIG expect sales of 10 million.  5. Tesla shares were down more than 1.7% on Friday and finished the week with losses of more than 7%, and Business Insider's Matthew DeBord looked at some of the problems that plagued the electric carmaker this week, namely growing skepticism from some analysts.  6. Two commodities had big moves in opposite directions on Friday. Silver fell more than 3% to less than $18 an ounce, its lowest level in more than four years, while Cocoa rallied on fears that a potential spread of Ebola on Africa's west coast could threaten Cocoa stocks in Ivory Coast and Ghana.  7. Oracle shares fell 4.2% on Friday after the company's CEO Larry Ellison announced on Thursday night that he would be stepping down from that post to take a position as executive chairman and CTO of the company. Oracle named both Safra Catz and Mark Hurd as CEO.  Don't Miss: 'Jesse Livermore' Is Calling The Top » FREE AppDownload
Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba went public on the New York Stock Exchange today in what is officially the largest IPO in US stock market history. The stock opened at $92.70 per share, putting the company's market cap at over $228 billion. So, just how big is that? "Based on yesterday’s closing prices for the companies in the S&amp;P 500, Alibaba would be one of the largest 15 companies in the S&amp;P 500 by market capitalization," FactSet's John Butters said. "It would rank #12 in the index overall, ahead of companies in more “traditional” industries such as Pfizer ($193.9 billion), IBM ($193.3 billion), and Coca-Cola ($183.3 billion). "Looking specifically at the Internet Software &amp; Services sub-industry in the S&amp;P 500, Alibaba would rank second out of seven companies by highest market capitalization. It would be behind Google, but ahead of Facebook, eBay, Yahoo!,  Akamai Technologies and VeriSign. "Looking specifically at the Internet Retail sub-industry in the S&amp;P 500, Alibaba would rank first out of six companies by highest market capitalization. It would be ahead of Amazon.com, priceline.com, Netflix, TripAdvisor, and Expedia." FactSet FREE AppDownload
FlickrFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Your Student Loans Are Going To Affect Your Kids Too (Financial Planning) One-third of American parents are still paying off student loan debt, which is going to negatively impact their ability to pay for the college educations of their kids, according to a new study by the CFP Board. "Managing expenses from the past and present is crowding out planning and saving for the future, including children's higher education, retirement and even essential emergency funds," writes Eleanor Blayney, the board's consumer advocate. The survey found that 69% of parents are not yet saving for the college educations of their children, according to the report. 17% of parents have no plans at all to save for college. And on top of that, 56% of parents are going to rely on financial aid. Meanwhile, college prices keep rising. Since the 1970s, private college prices are increasing at an average annual rate of 6.5% and public college prices are increasing at 6.3%. "Some parents appear to have unrealistic expectations about their ability to balance funding a child’s college experience with their own financial goals," Blayney says in the release. “Many parents may not be effectively investing for college, losing out on tax benefits and higher returns from 529 plans and investments." Clients Worried About Rising Rates Should Diversify With Bonds (Vanguard) It's always incredibly difficult to predict when and how quickly rates will rise — and that's naturally a source of tension for clients. The best strategy for clients who want to reduce risk associated with rising rates is to diversify, and in particular, to broaden opportunities globally according to Vanguard's Josh Barrickman. But that's easier said than done — some clients are reluctant to own bonds. Advisors need to manage their clients' expectations for bonds, and "specifically temper return expectations and reinforce the roles that bonds play in a portfolio." Returns most likely won't be what they were in the last 30 years, but high-quality bonds are the best way to diversifies equity risk and to buffer portfolios against major shocks. Aging Populations Will Lead Annual Consumer Spending In Emerging Markets To Rise $50 Trillion In 15 Years (AllianceBernstein Blog) Investors should remember that aging trends are an important factor in the ongoing evolution of emerging markets. Right now, major emerging market countries — like China and India — have young populations. But as birth rates decline and health care improves, older people are going to increasingly make up a larger percentage of the population. In the top 12 emerging markets, "the over-65 demographic is growing at an annual rate of approximately 3.7% — nearly double the rate in developed countries," according to AllianceBernstein's Tassos Stassopoulos. AllianceBernstein estimates that annual consumer spending while rise by $50 trillion in 15 years (from $12 million in 2014 to $63 trillion in 2030) because of the aging population.  Because emerging markets are developing so quickly, older people are increasingly losing their jobs. Younger people more quickly become better educated and therefore more qualified than their elders. In fact, peak income earning levels tend to be around 35 to 39 years old. So that leaves emerging markets with a growing "over-65" demographic that's most likely going to be poor (since they will have a hard time holding on to good paying jobs). These people will probably not be looking for luxury and leisure goods. "Successful consumer companies will be those that understand how to grab a growing share of the older demographic by offering quality products at good value and services such as retirement insurance or cheaper healthcare." Growth In Companies' Instrinic Values Is The Key For Investors (Morningstar)  The S&amp;P 500 currently has dividend yields at approximately 2%, which is how its been in the last 10 years, but is significantly lower than long-run historical norms. Investors hoping to get 6% or higher returns are going to get way less from dividends. To try and get a higher yield than 4%, investors are going to have to take on a lot of risk. The big driver is going to be growth in intrinsic value. "Companies are earning cash flows over many years into the future — possibly decades into the future. And you have to discount those future cash flows back to a present value at some expected rate of return. So, that discount-rate assumption or that cost-of-equity assumption drives that growth in fair value estimate over time or that growth in intrinsic value over time. Again, as companies grow earnings, raise their dividends, realize cash flows, as cash accumulates in the balance sheet and is either returned to the shareholders or just accumulates there, all of this shows that companies tend to compound their intrinsic values over time," writes Morningstar's Matt Coffina. "This is really the reason that it's still worthwhile to hold common stocks," he adds. In the long-run, fixed-income and cash do not have the same intrinsic growth value. Merrill Lynch Just Kicked Out Two Veteran Advisors After They Recommended Clients Invest Outside The Firm (Investment News) Bank of America Merrill Lynch just asked two veteran advisers who managed around $2.5 billion in assets to leave the firm "after they allegedly recommended clients make investments outside the firm," according to Investment News' Mason Braswell. The standard protocol is for clients to go through the Merrill Lynch investment platform. However, the two advisers allegedly told some major clients to invest directly in hedge funds. The advisers had been at Merrill Lynch since the 1990s. Their removal is an "unusual occurrence." FREE AppDownload
Silver is getting crushed. On Friday, Silver fell more than 3% to less than $18 an ounce, its lowest level in more than four years.  FinViz The price of gold also fell about 0.8% and touched its lowest level since January. Gold has been weak recently and is approaching a four-year low. FinViz Platinum also fell to a nine-month low. The biggest story on Friday is the Alibaba IPO, and shares of the Chinese e-commerce giant are going in the opposite direction. Alibaba opened at $92.70 per share, after pricing at $68 on Thursday night, and in afternoon trade shares of Alibaba were at around $91.  Still, the Nasdaq led markets lower after Alibaba made its debut. Any positive close for the Dow and the S&amp;P 500 will mark a new record after these indexes made new all-time highs on Thursday. Also on Thursday, Scotland said "No" to independence, and in late trade on Thursday the Yen fell to its lowest level since September 2008 against the dollar, and the British pound rallied against most currencies. The dollar is set for its 10th straight week of gains — which would be the longest rally since Lyndon Johnson was president, according to Bloomberg's Andrea Wong. FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Dima ViunnykAnyone with a little spare cash can invest.You're never too young to invest. Yes, investing can seem intimidating, and yes, there are experts out there who seem to speak a whole different language, but not everyone needs to make a career out of it. Most of us are just in it to bulk up our savings for retirement, make a little extra money on the side, or even just beat inflation (more on that in a minute). Below, find 25 investing basics that every 25-year-old should know. Is this everything there is to learn? Of course not. But it's a solid start. Your savings account isn't invested in anything ... You do earn interest on money in savings, but it's usually less than 1%, and that money sits in the bank. ... but your retirement savings are. Retirement savings, on the other hand, are invested if you put them in a retirement fund like an IRA or 401(k). This isn't the case if you simply name your savings account "retirement." Investments are one of the only ways to keep up with inflation. Inflation lops an average 3.87% off your money's value every year, so you need your money to grow fast enough to outpace inflation. For most people, investing is the only way to get that kind of growth. Investing is always a risk. Investing could earn you money or lose it. Just because many people invest  Flickr / Kate HiscockGo ahead and consider these eggs poorly diversified. A security is a financial instrument. You'll probably hear people refer to "securities," which is a catch-all term for things like stocks, bonds, or CDs. Securities are divided into debt securities (money owed to us, like from a government bond), and equity securities (actual value we own, like stocks). Stocks are equity in a company. When you buy a stock, you're buying a tiny little piece of an actual company. Not a lot, but ownership nonetheless. Stocks are more volatile than bonds, and may therefore yield greater rewards or losses. The stock market lets you track stock performance. Stocks are traded on "exchanges," which make up the overall market. The major stock exchanges in the US include the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) and the Nasdaq. Stock prices are also tracked on indices such as the S&amp;P 500 and the Dow Jones Industrial Average. While you'll want to check in with your individual investments, monitoring stock market activity can give you an idea of how your portfolio might be performing.  Bonds are loans you make. When you purchase a bond, you're essentially loaning a little money to an entity — like the US government, for instance — and that entity has to pay you back after a fixed period of time, with interest. There aren't bond exchanges that show up in a ticker, because bonds are traded differently than stocks. However, there are sites where you can get an idea of bond pricing, like the Wall Street Journal. Diversification means spreading your money out among different kinds of investments. There are a lot of opinions out there about how diversified an investment portfolio needs to be, but most everyone agrees that putting all of your financial eggs in one basket is a recipe for disaster.  The ROI is how much money you make on your investments. To get an idea of how well your investments are performing, you can calculate the ROI by dividing an investment's gains by its costs. Spencer Platt / Getty ImagesThe New York Stock Exchange is a major fixture of Wall Street. You'll probably be charged fees. Investing isn't free. If you're working with an investment professional, you'll pay them either a percentage of your portfolio or a flat fee (you'll want to know if your advisor is "fee-based" or "fee-only" before you sign on), online investment platforms or "robo-advisors" each have their own fee structures, and some mutual funds and ETFs also charge fees. These fees vary, and if you do your research, you can minimize them.  You don't have to pick stock by stock. Professionals collect groups of securities called mutual funds, and you can invest in these funds to diversify your money without picking every individual stock or bond yourself. Index funds are mutual funds chosen to reflect a specific stock index, such as the S&amp;P 500. You may have to pay taxes due to your investments ... The US government doesn't let you have the money you may make investing for free. When you cash in, you'll owe what's called capital gains taxes. ... but you also may receive a tax break. Although different retirement accounts have different tax structures, contributions are often tax-deductible. 529 savings plans, which are also investment accounts, are similarly tax-advantaged. Sometimes, you'll fail. It's an unfortunate truth that we won't all be rock star investors. For some people to do really well, others must do poorly. And sometimes, you're the "other." Flickr / Jamie McCaffreyInvesting isn't just gambling. Starting early is a major advantage. In your 20s, your biggest asset is time. Even when you're just investing in retirement savings, nothing can make up for the effect of compound interest. Also, if you lose money in the market, you'll have more time to make it back before you need it. Hot stocks probably aren't your ticket. There's always a stock to buzz about, but that doesn't guarantee it will be your ticket to wealth. It's a better bet to research the company and make your own decision than to blindly jump on the stock of the moment. Your long-term strategy has nothing to do with that morning's news. Most investors shouldn't "buy" or "sell" every time it's recommended on TV. There's an entire documentary explaining why active investing — buying and selling stocks strategically and often — doesn't work for most people. Getting too attached to individual stocks can be dangerous. If you own a particular security you're attached to for sentimental reasons or because of its past performance, you might be reluctant to ditch it even if your advisor or investment professional says to. Securities are only as good as how they're performing currently, and you have to be willing to let low performers go.  You don't need to check constantly. If you've caught sight of a stock ticker (on Business Insider, for example), you're probably aware that markets go up and down every day, and so do individual stocks. If you're investing for the long term and aren't an investing professional, you don't need the anxiety of a running ticker on your desktop. Don't invest money you'll need soon. If you'll need quick access to liquid cash in the short term, you won't want to park that money in the stock market. Some professionals say you shouldn't invest money you'll need in the next five years, because if the market goes down, you won't have enough time to recoup those funds. Wikimedia CommonsEven the most qualified professionals can be off the mark. No one can reliably predict the market. They just can't. While professionals can make educated guesses, predicting the market is predicting the future, and no one can do it. And past market behavior isn't a reliable way to predict the future. On that same note, looking at what the markets have done isn't a reliable way to predict what they will do. Again, this is a case of predicting the future, which could go in an unexpected direction due to unforeseen events known as "black swans." You don't know what you don't know. There's a lot to learn about the stock market, and it's a big mistake to think that you're an expert just because you're a generally smart, capable person. There's always more to learn.  You don't have to do it yourself. You don't have to be an expert to invest. There are financial planners, wealth advisors, and even automated online investing platforms (robo-advisors) to guide you. This post has been updated to clarify that the Dow Jones Industrial Average and S&amp;P 500 are indices, not exchanges. FREE AppDownload
Cocoa futures were up over 2% on Friday, and they have been flying higher this week. Ebola is being blamed for the spike. According to a report by The Wall Street Journal's Alexandra Wexler and Sara Jerving, concerns that Ebola will reach either Ghana or the Ivory Coast are scaring the cocoa futures market.  Ivory Coast and Ghana produce 60% of the world's coca, the report said, though no cases of Ebola have been confirmed in either country so far.  Ivory Coast shares a border with Liberia and Guinea, two of the countries that have seen an Ebola outbreak; most of Ghana's western border is with Ivory Coast. Sierra Leone has also been affected by a significant Ebola outbreak.  Wexler and Jerving cited comments from Hector Galvan, a strategist at RJO Futures in Chicago, who said: "The fear people have is that once Ebola is verified in Ivory Coast ... it will be pandemonium. The worst-case scenario — you lose virtually all cocoa exports out of Ivory Coast [or] Ghana for an unknown period of time." Here is a chart of Cocoa futures going back about six weeks, which you can see have ripped higher over the past several days.  FinViz (via WSJ) FREE AppDownload
If you think we saw bad things out of China this week, brace yourselves. It's going to get worse. A recent slew of economic data out of the country showed that industrial production had slowed to its lowest level since 2008. Retail, investment, housing — all the numbers pointed to a slow down. The Chinese government responded by injecting about $81 billion into the top five Chinese banks, a targeted move that isn't meant to be more than a quick tiny jolt. So conditions will remain as they are, and for Chinese companies, those conditions are bad and getting worse. In a recent report Morgan Stanley described a grim future for corporates, especially in sectors like mining, property development, and industrials. The picture is pretty bad all around, but these industries are the most vulnerable given market conditions. Companies in these sectors are seeing lower profit margins, excess capacity, and eroding pricing power. To make up for that, they're spending too much cash while levering up. China's corporates took on 5.4 times more leverage than they had before in the first half of 2014 alone, according the Morgan Stanley's report, bringing leverage up to levels unseen since 2006. What may  be the worst part of this is that Chinese companies are trying to avoid this to no avail. "The deterioration is also, for the most part, unintentional: debt growth has generally been decelerating, reflecting slower spending (yes, there are exceptions), but it’s just not enough," said the report. This isn't sustainable, especially with the Chinese government insisting that it's not going to rescue the economy with big stimulus anymore. On Tuesday the government's publication, Xinhua News Agency, accused those calling for fresh stimulus after the weekend's bad data dump of "failing to clearly see the Chinese economy's new normal." That means credit will be tight, and Morgan Stanley thinks that puts Chinese companies in a similar, terrible position to the one they were in in 2008 and 2011.  "Both periods saw decelerating growth and were preceded by tightening credit conditions," said the report. So expect defaults, expect credit events, expect strong companies to survive in this environment and weak companies to get wiped out. In fact, as you can see in the Morgan Stanley table below, it's already started. Morgan Stanley FREE AppDownload
And there's one American company that will experience a windfall from Alibaba's stock, not just immediately, but in the months and years to come: Yahoo.  Yahoo's continued windfall would have been smaller if not for one woman at the company. Not CEO Marissa Mayer, but chief development officer Jacqueline Reses. Reses actually holds the unusual combination of two roles at Yahoo. As chief development officer, she heads up Yahoo's M&amp;A strategy. She's also the head of Yahoo's HR department, which says a lot about how Yahoo thinks about hiring talent. And today's history-making day is such a big day for her, she admits to crying while she was with Alibaba CEO Jack Ma, she tweeted. The enormity of today is overwhelming. Cried at dinner with Jack. Wow. I am speechless. Alibaba opened at $68 per share, raising $21.8 billion at a valuation of about $168 billion. Yahoo will sell 121.7 million shares and put about $5.1 billion in cash into its coffers. And, thanks to Reses, Yahoo will hold onto another 401.8 million shares in Alibaba. The stock is up to $90 on its first day of trading, so Yahoo's slice is worth $36.2 billion. But it was a long, complicated, and often ugly road that got Yahoo here. At one time, Yahoo had a 43% stake in Alibaba, bought for $1 billion years ago by Yahoo cofounder and then CEO Jerry Yang. In 2009, Yang's successor Carol Bartz notoriously blew up Yahoo's relationship with Alibaba. At her very first meeting with Ma, she reportedly dressed him down in front of his senior executive team, Forbes reported. And things devolved from there. The negotiations between Yahoo and Alibaba about cashing out Yahoo's stake during this time were acrimonious, complicated, and pretty much went nowhere. In 2012, under then-CEO Scott Thompson, the two companies stitched together a deal: Yahoo agreed to sell back half its stake in the Chinese Web company for $7 billion, AllThingsD reported. Then Thompson got caught up on a scandal over over a fake computer science degree on his resume and left Yahoo. The Alibaba deal closed under interim CEO Ross Levinsohn's reign.  When Mayer came on board, she immedediately warned investors she wanted to rethink Yahoo's original plans for the cash, not returning it to shareholders as promised but using it to fund acquisitions and other investments. (Update: We originally reported that the deal closed under Mayer but Levinsohn reached out to us and clarified that it happened under his watch.) Yahoo was also supposed to be on the hook to sell another 261 million shares, or 40% of its remaining stake in Alibaba in the IPO. Enter Reses. Shortly after Mayer took the helm, Mayer asked Rese to join Yahoo, luring her away from a career as a private equity investor for Apax Partners. Reses became Yahoo's representative on Alibaba's board. Over months, she renegotiated a new deal for Yahoo that allowed Yahoo to keep more of its stake, selling just 140 million shares in the IPO, it said in July. Retaining a bigger stake gives Mayer breathing room in trying to turn Yahoo around. It keeps investors happy with Yahoo's share of the fast-growing Alibaba. Reses has the personality to work magic. She's smart, funny, likeable, and irreverent. In fact at the exact moment Yahoo was announcing the revised Alibaba deal, Reses was on stage cracking jokes at Fortune's Brainstorm conference in Aspen. When asked if she thought competitor AOL would be acquired in the next two years, without missing a beat she quipped, "Not by us." That line quickly went viral on Twitter. Reses is also tireless. She's completed more than 40 acquisitions for Yahoo in the past two years, slowing her pace down only to work on the Alibaba IPO, she said at the conference in July. She's back on the acquisition horse. In August, Yahoo closed its deal to buy Flurry, in a deal said to be valued at over $200 million, The Wall Street Journal reported. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe logo of Bitcoin (virtual currency) is pictured on a door in an illustration picture taken at La Maison du Bitcoin in ParisBy Jonathan Stempel (Reuters) - A U.S. federal judge in Texas ordered Bitcoin Savings and Trust and its owner to pay a combined $40.7 million after the  Securities and Exchange Commission established that the company, which sold investments using the virtual currency, was a Ponzi scheme. In a decision dated Thursday, U.S. Magistrate Judge Amos Mazzant said Trendon Shavers "knowingly and intentionally" operated his company "as a sham and a Ponzi scheme," misleading investors about the use of their bitcoin, how he would generate promised returns and the safety of their investments. Shavers, of McKinney, Texas, did not immediately respond on Friday to a request for comment. His ability to pay the judgment is unclear. Shavers' lawyer withdrew from the civil case this week, court records show. The SEC said Shavers used the online moniker "pirateat40" to raise more than 732,000 bitcoin from February 2011 to August 2012, promising investors up to 7 percent in weekly interest to be paid based on his ability to trade the currency. But according to the decision, Shavers used new bitcoin to repay earlier investors, diverted some to personal accounts at the now-bankrupt Mt. Gox exchange and elsewhere, and spent some investor funds on rent, food, shopping and casino visits. "The collective loss to BTCST investors who suffered net losses (there were also net winners) was 265,678 bitcoins, or more than $149 million at current exchange rates," wrote Mazzant, who sits in Sherman, Texas. Mazzant held Shavers and his company liable to give up $38.6 million of illegal profits plus $1.8 million in interest. Each defendant was also fined $150,000. The SEC announced the case on July 23, 2013, the same day it warned investors to be on alert for potential scams involving bitcoin and other "cutting-edge" investments. The case is SEC v. Shavers et al, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Texas, No. 13-00416.  (Reporting by Jonathan Stempel in New York, editing by G Crosse) FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesWarren BuffettNote from dshort: I've updated this analysis to include yesterday's Federal Reserve release of the 2014 Z.1 Financial Accounts for Q2. Market Cap to GDP is a long-term valuation indicator that has become popular in recent years, thanks to Warren Buffett. Back in 2001 he remarked in a Fortune Magazine interview that "it is probably the best single measure of where valuations stand at any given moment." The four valuation indicators I track in my monthly valuation overview offer a long-term perspective of well over a century. The raw data for the "Buffett indicator" only goes back as far as the middle of the 20th century. Quarterly GDP dates from 1947, and the Fed's B.102 Balance sheet has quarterly updates beginning in Q4 1951. With an acknowledgement of this abbreviated timeframe, let's take a look at the plain vanilla quarterly ratio with no effort to interpolate monthly data. The strange numerator in the chart title, MVEONWMVBSNNCB, is the FRED designation for Line 39 in the B.102 balance sheet (Market Value of Equities Outstanding), available on the Federal Reserve website. Here is a link to a FRED version of the chart. Incidentally, the numerator is the same series used for a simple calculation of the Q Ratio valuation indicator. The numerator is from the Fed's Q2 Z.1 Financial Accounts released on September 18th. I've updated the GDP denominator with the Q2 Second Estimate.  Click for a larger image Here is a more transparent alternate snapshot over a shorter timeframe using the Wilshire 5000 Full Cap Price Index divided by GDP. I've used the FRED data for the stock index numerator (WILL5000PRFC).  Click for a larger image A quick technical note: To match the quarterly intervals of GDP, for the Wilshire data I've used the quarterly average of daily closes rather than quarterly closes (slightly smoothing the volatility). How Well do the Two Views Match? The first of the two charts above appears to show a significantly greater overvaluation. Here are the two versions side-by-side. The one on the left shows the latest valuation over two standard deviations (SD) above the mean. The other one is noticeably lower. Why does one look so much more expensive than the other?     One uses Fed data back to the middle of the last century for the numerator, the other uses the Wilshire 5000, the data for which only goes back to 1971. The Wilshire is the more familiar numerator, but the Fed data gives us a longer timeframe. And those early decades, when the ratio was substantially lower, have definitely impacted the mean and SDs. To illustrate my point, here is an overlay of the two versions over the same timeframe. The one with the Fed numerator has a tad more upside volatility, but they're singing pretty much in harmony.  Click for a larger image Incidentally, the Fed's estimate for Nonfinancial Corporate Business; Corporate Equities; Liability is the broader of the two numerators. The Wilshire 5000 currently consists of fewer than 4000 companies. What Do These Charts Tell Us? In a CNBC interview earlier this spring CNBC interview (April 23rd), Warren Buffett expressed his view that stocks aren't "too frothy". However, both the "Buffett Index" and the Wilshire 5000 variant suggest that today's market is indeed at lofty valuations, now above the housing-bubble peak in 2007. In fact, the more timely of the two (Wilshire / GDP) has risen for eight consecutive quarters and is now approaching two standard deviations above its mean -- a level exceeded for six quarters during the dot.com bubble. Wouldn't GNP Give a More Accurate Picture? Note from dshort: GNP estimates lag GDP by a month, so this section still reflects data through the first quarter. That is a question I've been asked mutiple times. Here is the same calculation with Gross National Product as the denominator; the two versions differ very little from their Gross Domestic Product counterparts.     Here is an overlay of the two GNP versions -- again, very similar.  Click for a larger image Another question I've been repeatedly asked is why I don't include the "Buffett Indicator" in the overlay of the four valuation indicators I update monthly. I've not included it for various reasons: The timeframe is so much shorter, the overlapping timeframe tells the same story, and the four-version overlay is about as visually "busy" as I'm comfortable graphing. I will, however, continue to post regular "Buffett Indicator" updates when the Bureau of Economic Analysis updates the denominators (GDP and GNP). FREE AppDownload
ReutersThe Nasdaq is leading markets lower after Alibaba made its public debut.  The tech-heavy Nasdaq was down 18 points, or 0.4%, and the S&amp;P 500 also turned negative, falling 1 point or about 0.05%. The Dow was still higher, up 24 points. The big story on Friday is the market debut of Alibaba, the Chinese e-commerce giant, which priced its IPO $68 on Thursday night and opened for trade at $92.70 on Friday. Alibaba shares traded as high as $99 before pulling back to a more stable price near its debut price. At $92.70 per share, the company raised a record $29.7 billion and had a market cap of $228.5 billion. This was also a 36% increase from its IPO price.   Yahoo shares were also in focus on Friday, as the company sold about $8 billion of its stake in Alibaba in the IPO, and after opening higher on Friday, Yahoo shares were down by as much as 3%.  By virtue of making new all-time highs on Thursday, any positive close for the Dow and the S&amp;P 500 on Friday will mark a new record.  On Thursday, Scotland voted to remain part of the UK, sending the British pound higher against all major currency pairs. Also on Thursday, Oracle CEO Larry Ellison announced he would be stepping down from that role and taking the role of executive chairman and CTO at the company. Oracle named both Safra Catz and Mark Hurd as CEO.  In afternoon trade on Friday, Oracle shares were down 4.5%.  FREE AppDownload
Mario Tama/GettyA trader deals with a severe drop in the market at the New York Stock Exchange. The late Jim Paul went from a poor Kentucky boy to serving on the board of governors of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange through a series of lucky breaks and smart investments. But his hubris grew alongside his success, and a series of terrible investment decisions led to his downfall in 1983. His brokerage firm took away his job, his reputation was ruined, and he lost $1.6 million, $400,000 of which was borrowed from friends. Paul spent the rest of the decade getting himself back on track. By 1990 he was working in the futures research department at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter &amp; Co., managing a team that included investment advisor Brendan Moynihan. Moynihan and Paul paired up to write a book about his experience called "What I Learned Losing a Million Dollars," which was originally published in 1994 and recently released as an ebook and audiobook. For his podcast, author and speaker Tim Ferriss interviewed Moynihan, who is now the managing director of Marketfield Asset Management LLC, about the book. Moynihan broke down three of the key takeaways, which he tells Ferriss are less about investing and more "about the psychology of the mistakes we make." We've summarized them below: "When you lose money, people tend to internalize that. They tend to equate self-worth with net worth," Moynihan says, referring to the way that people tend to equate their failures with their identity. If you lose a massive amount of money or suffer another big setback, you will be holding yourself back from a rebound if you see yourself as a failure rather than someone who failed. It was this fear of being a failure that kept Paul from aborting his investment in the soybean oil trade, despite multiple indicators of a sharply declining market, Paul and Moynihan write in their book. Looking back, Paul writes, he wishes he would have simply accepted the failure and moved forward before putting himself through even more difficulties. Being a smart investor requires taking many risks, and not all of them will result in success. But smart high-risk decisions are still very different from gambles, Moynihan tells Ferriss. Gamblers marry their ego to their money, which is what Paul did. "They want to be right. It's not about the money. In gamblers, that is a disease... Money is just a ticket to enter. They're there for the adrenaline rush," Moynihan says. You're a human being. It's natural to have emotional reactions to situations, whether positive or negative. Just make sure you learn how to set feelings aside and look at something objectively before making a decision. Paul writes about an example of when he let his emotions guide his trading, which he would do on an even grander scale with the soybean investment that lost him over a million dollars. In 1980, his business partner told him he got a tip that a company was a potential takeover candidate within the next two months at $60 per share. Paul ended up buying tens of thousands of options when they were selling for just several cents and told all of his clients to do the same. Within three weeks, the stock rose to $38 and the options were each worth $4. He could've made a hefty profit by selling at this point, but he, his partner, and his clients pushed each other to hold out for the rumored takeover. It would have made Paul $7.5 million, and he and his fellow option-holders began tossing ideas of grandiose vacations back and forth as the market closed on Friday. On Monday, the stock opened down $6 and he learned that the rumored takeover was off the table. The options were worthless. In retrospect, Paul writes that he saw this as a prime example of the dangers of groupthink, where he and his fellow investors lost sight of the fact that they weren't trading off reliable information. Despite that, they actually had a chance to all make plenty of money had they decided to sell that Friday. He writes that it was a mistake to get wrapped up in a fantasy of flying in the Concorde and staying at the Waldorf-Astoria, which clouded his judgment. Moynihan shares more stories about Paul and the lessons they learned in Ferriss' podcast, The Tim Ferriss Show, as well as the new edition of "What I Learned Losing A Million Dollars." FREE AppDownload
This video is sponsored by OppenheimerFunds.    Investors looking to manage their portfolios have been paying close attention to interest rates, which are at historic lows. Will they stay there? Or are interest rates bound to rise? As part of our investment series with OppenheimerFunds, we polled Business Insider readers to see what they thought. It turns out that 65% of our readers think interest rates will rise in the next two to three years. But OppenheimerFunds Senior Economist Brian Levitt has a different perspective, and he provides three key reasons for why interest rates will stay low for the long term. Watch the video above to find out what they are. More about OppenheimerFunds.  Mutual funds are subject to market risk and volatility. Shares may gain or lose value. Carefully consider fund investment objectives, risks, charges and expenses. Visit oppenheimerfunds.com, call your advisor or 1.800.225.5677 (CALL-OPP) for a prospectus with this and other fund information. Read it carefully before investing.Oppenheimer funds are distributed by OppenheimerFunds Distributor, Inc. OppenheimerFunds Distributor, Inc. is not affiliated with Business Insider. OFDI engaged Business Insider to prepare this material. © 2014 OppenheimerFunds Distributor, Inc. All rights reserved. Find out more about Sponsor Posts. FREE AppDownload
Paramount PicturesTom Hanks as "Forrest Gump" Alibaba's CEO Jack Ma, who is also China's richest man, told CNBC's "Squawk On The Street" crew that he's inspired by the movie "Forrest Gump."  Here's an interview from earlier today: Jack Ma: Well, I got my story, my dream from America. A full 15 years ago when I came to America, when I visit Silicon Valley. I saw in the evening the road was full of cars, all the buildings with the lights. That's the passion. The hero I had is Forrest Gump.  Jim Cramer: A box of chocolates? David Faber: You know he is a fictional character, though?  Ma: I really like that guy. I've been watching that movie for about ten times. Every time I get frustrated, I watch the movie. I watched the movie before I came here again before coming to New York. I watched the movie again telling me no matter whatever changed, you are you. I'm still the guy 15 years ago, you know, I only earn like $20 a month. And today I can do that much.  Alibaba, which debuts on the New York Stock Exchange today, is the largest IPO in U.S. stock market history.    FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucy NicholsonIt will probably be OK ...Tesla is hitting some skepticism from analysts. This week, Morgan Stanley's Adam Jonas expressed some "sobering factors" about the company's future — and the stock promptly fell almost 9%. On Friday, Goldman Sachs' Patrick Archambault expressed some more substantial reservations about CEO Elon Musk's electric carmaker (via StreetInsider): Jonas kept his target price for Tesla at $320 a share, while Archambault is over $100 lower, at $210. It's important to point out here that while it's very tempting to view Tesla as ... 1. Not a car company, but a technology company 2. Not a car company or a tech company, but an investment opportunity, i.e. a stock ... the fact of the matter is that Tesla's future is inevitably about becoming a much bigger car company.  Tech companies, as is often noted, can run lean-and-mean when it comes to their capital requirements. For startups, it's almost a badge of honor to avoid excessive spending on anything when the company is young and living off venture rounds. A mature automaker, on the other hand, can consumer $2 billion a month just to keep the doors open and the cars rolling off the assembly line. So Archambault's wait-and-see position has some merit. And although Jonas is often counted as a true Tesla bull, even he trimmed back his enthusiasm a bit this week. It looks as if Wall Street is bringing a dose of reality to its coverage of Tesla. Of course, even Musk has expressed some skepticism about Tesla's valuation, so maybe nobody should be all that surprised that analysts are simply listening to the guy.  That said, the stock is still up miles from its 2010 IPO price. It's just down about $30 from its highs — and down over 7% this week. Musk can take solace in the fact that one of his other companies, a little operation called SpaceX, won a $2.6 billion contract to ferry astronauts to the International Space Station. FREE AppDownload
James Lee/flickrWASHINGTON (AP) — Unemployment rates rose in nearly half of U.S. states in August, even as employers in two-thirds of the states added jobs. The Labor Department says unemployment increased in 24 states, fell in 15 and was unchanged in 11. Hiring picked up in 35 states, while it fell in 15. Unemployment rates can rise even when hiring increases if more people start looking for work and don't immediately find jobs. The figures suggest hiring was broad-based across most regions of the country last month, even as nationwide job gains in August were the weakest this year. Georgia reported the nation's highest unemployment rate, at 8.1 percent, followed by Mississippi at 7.9 percent. That's the first time Georgia has had the highest rate since the Great Recession ended. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. FREE AppDownload
We've recently been very interested in finding demographically strange places in the United States. Here, we look at which counties are growing the fastest in each state. Using data from the Census Bureau's annual population estimates, we found the county in every state that had the fastest year-over-year growth rate between July 2012 and July 2013. Here are the counties, along with the percent change in population: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from US Census Bureau The extremely small Loving County, Texas, went from a population of 78 in 2012 to 95 in 2013, making it by far the fastest growing county in the country. Meanwhile, states in New England have counties that grew very slowly or shrank.  Here's a table showing the 2012 and 2013 populations of the counties, as well as the percent increase in population: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from US Census Bureau
The world will never be the same — there is now a one-piece suit concept called “The Suitsy.”  BetabrandHow the one-piece suit works. The shirt is connected to the jacket and the pants at the waist. There is a false sleeve to give gentlemen the appearance of a shirt cuff as well as a zipper hidden behind the shirt’s fake buttons to zip up the front of the suit. 					Your browser does not support the video tag.						YouTube				“Imagine looking professional but feeling like you are in pajamas,” Herzog’s proposal reads. “Consider wearing a suit and a onesie at the same time.” But perhaps the weirdest part about The Suitsy is that it doesn’t look that bad, all things considered. Many of the commenters are enthusiastic, with some cautiously wondering how men would use the bathroom. The Suitsy currently has 375 votes on Betabrand with 27 days left to go. Only time will tell if this will become a reality.    FREE AppDownload
Murdo Macleod/The GuardianEstate agents expect a flurry of house buying and selling in Scotland following the no vote.The Scottish housing market is expected to show a flurry activity in the coming days and weeks as buyers and sellers who had been putting off making a decision react to the referendum result, industry figures said. A report from the ONS earlier this week showed that average house prices in Scotland have now passed their pre-financial crisis peak of June 2008, and, along with average prices in England are at record levels. But a number of estate agents in Scotland said they had seen housing activity virtually stall in the last fortnight as homeowners became nervous about the impact of a yes vote. “We had a brilliant start to the year and the busiest July since the recession,” said Blair Stewart, partner in charge of Edinburgh property at estate agents Strutt &amp; Parker. “In August activity dropped off as expected but in early September the market just dropped off a cliff. That was just after a YouGov poll showed that the yes campaign was winning, which set off a wave of panic.” REUTERS/Dylan MartinezA woman waves a Scottish Saltire at a 'Yes' campaign rally in Glasgow, Scotland September 17, 2014. The referendum on Scottish independence will take place on September 18.He said that while buyers continued to look for properties, sellers were reluctant to transact. Other homeowners decided to sell but with a clause in the contract stating that completion would be subject to a no vote. He said there was already evidence that business was returning to normal following the result. “Just this morning we have already seen a turnaround in activity,” said Stewart. “There were two £1m property deals that we lost last week as the international buyers didn’t want to commit in the uncertain political climate. Both those buyers are back on board today and we have also had calls this morning about flats that last week had had no viewings.” Ran Morgan, head of Knight Frank in Scotland agreed. “We expect we will be very busy in the coming months as vendors and buyers, many of whom have put off making a decision to buy or sell a property in Scotland due to the referendum, return to the market,” he said. “This will lead to an increase in the number of transactions at all levels of the market. Our forecast is that prime values will rise by 3% by the end of this year and by a further 3% to 6% in 2015.” Some analysts took a more subdued view. Buying agent Henry Pryor said that while Scotland and Scottish property “had woken from a nightmare” that it would continue to be hungover for some time to come. “The Scots now face a period of negotiation – just how much more powers will be devolved? Will that allow Mr Salmond to raise stamp duty to the 7% that was talked about in the referendum campaign for instance?” he said. “There will be more headaches to come but the result this morning is fundamentally good for anyone looking to transact. Certainty has returned and gradually so will confidence.” However, many of the richest property owners in Scotland may now look to buy elsewhere because of the continued uncertainty over what the devolved powers would mean for property taxation, one lawyer claimed. “Any relief felt as a result of today’s news may sadly be temporary,” said Chris Groves, a partner at commercial law firm Withers. “While we should be glad that the immense potential upheaval of Scottish independence has been averted, individuals with assets in Scotland would be well advised to keep a close watch on changes to property and tax rules. We expect that the Scottish authorities will seek to introduce a mansion tax of some sort and also secure more direct powers over properties.” He said his clients in Scotland were not planning to “sell up and run for the border” but many of them said they would buy more property in England rather than Scotland or put off further property transactions altogether. “Uncertainty is the biggest brake on investment there is,” he said. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
Instagram/@stanfordStanford University is the best college in the U.S, say finance professionals.MIT had been the king of colleges on our list of the Best Colleges in America for the last four years in a row, but this year Stanford University came out on top. But what's the opinion of folks who work in the finance world? The same, it turns out, Stanford University is still the best college in America, according to people who work in the finance industry. MIT was still ranked No. 2. We asked over 1,500 professionals who have hiring experience to rate the reputations of graduates from top colleges around the country. When we filtered the results to only include responses from people who said that they work in the finance industry, the results only varied slightly from our main list. The top two schools stayed the same, but several schools moved up in the ranks, including UPenn (No. 6), which was ranked at No. 9 on our main list and Duke (No. 10), which was No. 19 on the overall list. Here are the top 15 colleges according to people in finance, along with their scores out of 5: 1. Stanford University (4.08)2. Massachusetts Institute of Technology (3.96)3. Princeton University (3.79)4. California Institute of Technology (3.76)5. Harvard University (3.72)6. University of Pennsylvania (3.70)7. Yale University (3.66)8. Columbia University (3.61)9. University of Chicago (3.57)10. Duke University (3.56)11. Dartmouth College (3.50)12. Cornell University (3.49)13. U.S. Naval Academy (3.47)14. Carnegie Mellon University (3.41)15. U.S. Military Academy (3.38) FREE AppDownload
Chinanet Holdings were halted for trade early Friday after spiking as much as 89% after the company said it is in talks with Alibaba's Taobao unit.  After re-opening the stock was up about 65%.  In a press release, Chinanet said, "We are very excited about our new focus on digital advertising and our cooperation with Baidu. We are also in discussions with Taobao of Alibaba to provide "Micro-Sell 360", which is one of our new product solutions geared towards precision marketing for clients," said George Chu, ChinaNet Online's Chief Operating Officer. The release from Chinanet, which has a market cap of just $43 million, was a pretty bland announcement about the company's new strategy.  And so while the spike in Chinanet shares is likely due, at least in part, to the company being such a small company that doesn't have too many shares available for trade, it also shows that as we wait for Alibaba's debut on Friday, just the mere mention of the name is making traders go crazy.  Here's the crazy action in shares of Chinanet.  Google Finance FREE AppDownload
Flickr/lloydcrewBarclays economists just made their prediction: the European Central Bank is going to start a full quantitative easing programme by the beginning of next year, with its other efforts to boost Eurozone demand falling flat. The Fed and Bank of England kicked off their QE programmes in the immediate aftermath of the financial crisis, but the ECB has been held back. QE just means that the central bank is buying a bloc of financial assets, and that bloc is usually the bonds issued by that country's government. The ECB's new bank credit wheeze has been a big flop so far, and pretty much everyone is now sceptical that it will have a major effect.  Mario Draghi's goal is to bring the ECB's shrinking balance sheet back to €3 trillion, from about €2 trillion now. The balance sheet grows by buying assets or offering banks credit, in an attempt to keep markets liquid and stop them from seizing up. There's a good explanation here from Germany's Bundesbank.  Barclays reckon this basically isn't possible from what the ECB is doing so far. They think the TLTRO (targeted long term refinancing operation) scheme that disappointed everyone this week will only raise the sheet by €170 billion this year. It's just not enough. In comparison, there's a massive market in central government debt that the ECB could dive into.   So far the ECB's programmes are working with the asset-backed securities (ABS) and covered bond markets, while the market in government bonds is more than three times larger than either.  Earlier this year, lots of banks like BNP Paribas said they expected a QE programme over the summer, and then changed their minds.  But since the summer, inflation has dropped even further. That's the second reason Barclays' researchers say that Mario Draghi will have to relent and go for QE.  Though Capital Economics agreed in a research note Thursday that the ECB would eventually resort to QE, their analysts remain pretty sceptical about how much good it will do. Analyst Michael Pearce said that "the scale of monetary easing is set to be much more timid" than the Bank of Japan's effort. "Co-ordinating policy between the 18 separate governments and central banks of the euro-zone will be a Sisyphean challenge, even for Super Mario." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/SupriMichael Bloomberg, MBA '66.If you want to be an executive, billionaire, or US president, it's a good idea to graduate from Harvard Business School. Founded in 1908, HBS was the first institution in the world to grant a Masters in Business Administration. The Harvard MBA has since been a hallmark of the elite, with George W. Bush, Mitt Romney, and Michael Bloomberg all earning the degree. We sifted through HBS's sterling history to find the most powerful, prominent, and financially successful grads that came out of Cambridge. FREE AppDownload
Apple stores are typically regarded as providing one of the more pleasant experiences you can find in the retail shopping world. This doesn't happen by accident. Apple has meticulously planned every little detail of their stores from the physical design, to the customer service the "specialists" provide, which will ultimately make you spend money on their precious products.  We spoke with Carmine Gallo, an expert on Apple's employee training to learn more about the secrets behind the brand's unique customer service.  You can look further into Apple's ways by reading his book: "The Apple Experience".  Produced by Justin Gmoser. Narrated by Matt Johnston.  Follow BI Video: On Facebook   
Screenshot / Crocodile in the YangtzeAlibaba founder Jack Ma, back when the company IPO'd Alibaba.com in 2007. Alibaba, the Chinese e-commerce giant, starts trading on the New York Stock Exchange today under the listing BABA. It priced at $68 yesterday, meaning that it's raising around $21.8 billion, making it the largest IPO in the history of the US stock market. Here are some facts about the company that help you figure out just how powerful it really is: FREE AppDownload
Sports psychologist Dr. Jonathan Fader helps professional athletes overcome adversity using techniques that rely on various types of imagery. One method incorporates elements of the approach used by the ancient Samurai warrior. Dr. Fader also uses the concept to motivate bankers and traders working in high-pressure environments where millions are at stake.Produced by Graham Flanagan Follow BI Video: On Facebook  
APFirst customer Max, 20, jumps in joy with new mobile phones in his hands during the launch of the Apple iPhone 6 sale at a store in Oberhausen, Germany, Friday, Sept. 19, 2014. iPhone day is here at last.  The lines for the iPhone 6 are insane at the Apple Store. They're decent at carrier stores too.  So, now the question becomes how many phones will Apple sell this weekend? Or, perhaps more importantly, how many does it have to announce it sold to make investors happy? We spoke with Gene Munster of Piper Jaffray about opening weekend iPhone sales on Thursday, before the new iPhone was in stores.  Here's the bottom line: Munster has a relatively low estimate for opening weekend sales — just 6.5 million. Walt Piecyk at BTIG estimates Apple sells 10 million.  Last year, Apple said it sold 9 million units over the weekend. But, Munster says those sales numbers were inflated because of the iPhone 5C.  APPeople wait to buy the new Apple iPhone 6 and 6 Plus devices, outside an Apple store in Hong Kong Friday morning, Sept. 19, 2014. Apple sold the iPhone 5C and the iPhone 5S last year. The 5C replaced the iPhone 5. That means Apple took the iPhone 5 out of all retail channels, and replaced it with the 5C. Filling the "channel" with the iPhone 5C led to an inflated opening weekend number for Apple. Apple sold 9 million iPhones into the channel, but it didn't necessarily sell them through to the customer. As a result, this year's opening weekend iPhone sales are going to be hard to compare to last year's.  Munster thinks Apple sold 5.4 million iPhone 5S units last year. So, if Apple sells 6.5 million iPhone 6 units this year, then it's 20% year-over-year growth, but some people might not realize it because of last year's skewed number. Caroline Moss However, Munster also cautions that a giant opening weekend number isn't necessarily a good thing, either. If Apple comes out on Monday and says it sold 15 million iPhone 6s, then Munster thinks investors will see that as channel fill.  This year, Apple is selling an iPhone 6, which has a 4.7-inch screen and an iPhone 6 Plus, which has a 5.5-inch screen. The leaks leading up to the announcement of the iPhone 6 suggest that Apple was manufacturing a lot of iPhone 6s. The 6 Plus seems to be harder to make and is more scarce. If there are anecdotal reports of people going to Apple stores over the weekend and being able to get an iPhone 6 without any trouble, and then Apple announces a giant number for sales, some people with shrug and think it's channel fill. Business Insider Not that channel fill is the worst thing since Apple will eventually sell the phone. It's just that the opening weekend can be manipulated and might not be the best indicator of demand.  Munster thinks that pre-orders are the truest measure, and Apple announces strong pre-orders of 4 million.  FREE AppDownload
Bitcoin prices are getting smoked.  The digital crypto-currency has fallen below $400, according to data compiled by CoinDesk. Bitcoin opened at $421.46. It hit a high of $426.65 before hitting a low of $380.75. Bitcoin prices were last trading around $386. Here's the chart of Bitcoin's performance over the last week:  CoinDesk Here's a longer term chart showing Bitcoin's wild ride:  CoinDesk FREE AppDownload
@Jesse_LivermoreJesse Livermore. On Friday, Alibaba is set to make its debut on the NYSE in the largest IPO ever.  And at least one market watcher thinks that after Wednesday's Fed meeting, Thursday's all-time highs, and Friday's record-breaking Alibaba debut, we could mark a top for the year on Friday. Jesse Livermore, the pseudonymous blogger of Philosophical Economics, on Thursday night noted that in 2012, Facebook's IPO marked the market bottom for the year, and sees Alibaba's debut as potentially marking the top for 2014.  (Jesse Livermore is a famed stock market trader who made and lost millions of dollars shorting the stock market in the early 20th century — the modern day Twitter user operates under this cover.) Facebook IPO = 2012 bottom. 2014 Alibaba IPO = 2014 top. No crystal ball, but mkt certainly setting up for some blowoff action tomorrow.  Screw it. I'll step up and call it. Tomorrow, in the 1st hour of of trading, ES will top for the year. #timestamp  Crazy to call an unqualified top. But to call a top for the year? Better odds ;-) ;-) ;-)  Reasons? Purely superficial ;-) Alibaba = Opposite of $FB IPO, right? Fine, let's do it. Top us for yr plz, just like that one bottomed us. Livermore is one of our favorite follows on Twitter, and is always armed with a good take on the psychological state of the market.  Livermore said people had "wild reactions" to his Thursday night top call, but said that if you look at the factors that have come together this week, why not Friday? Whoa, wild rxns. No crystal ball, just tryna make some fun ;-) In serious, gonna b working on some new posts tomorrow, think many will enjoy  If have to pick a day, why not tomorrow? Odds r always against any day, but give me a better one? Dec 31st, just b/c mkt 100% teflon? C'mon  Crazy frothy IPO, lotsa neg divergences, back half September seasonally weak, currencies in full blowoff, lowest II bear in recent history..  QE now over, everyone calm on Fed, but could easily turn corner next few mos, this thing bouncing frantically o/n, can think of better day? Ultimately though, as many investors will note time and again, individual day moves in the market, and for longer-term investors even yearly moves in the market, aren't necessarily life and death. Calling tops is fun, and ultimately has a decent risk-reward proposition — if you're right, everyone remembers; if you're wrong, everyone forgets. Yes, very cute, but worth putting neck out. Anyone w/ any sense knows any successful top call beforehand is 100% luck. I'll try mine here.  Good luck!   FREE AppDownload
Flickr/YahooYahoo is making amends for years of blundering with one smart move: an early investment in China's Alibaba Group that has turned into a multibillion-dollar boon. The latest windfall will be delivered with Alibaba's record-setting IPO completed late Thursday, which is expected raise up to $25 billion for the e-commerce company and its early backers. Alibaba's shares will begin trading for the first time on Friday on the New York Stock Exchange. Yahoo is in line to make anywhere from $8.3 billion to $9.5 billion from the initial public offering, depending on whether investment bankers exercise their right to buy additional stock in the deal. The payoff supplements the $7.6 billion jackpot that Yahoo collected two years ago after selling another chunk of its Alibaba holdings and reworked a licensing agreement with the Chinese company. Even if Yahoo ends up selling its maximum allotment of 140 million shares in the IPO, the Sunnyvale, California, company will still retain a roughly 16 percent stake in Alibaba Group Ltd. worth another $26 billion to $27 billion. Not a bad return, considering Yahoo acquired its Alibaba stake for $1 billion in 2005 in a deal engineered by company cofounder Jerry Yang and former CEO Terry Semel. The Alibaba investment has helped ease the pain of Yahoo's struggles in internet advertising, the heart of its business. Yahoo's annual revenue has slipped from a peak of $7.2 billion to a projected $4.5 billion this year, a decline of nearly 40 percent. The downturn has occurred even as advertisers steadily shift more of their budgets to the internet and mobile devices, but most of that money is flowing to Yahoo rivals like Google Inc. and Facebook Inc. — companies that have built more compelling digital services. Yahoo has gone through seven different CEOs since 2006, including current leader Marissa Mayer, trying to figure out how to rejuvenate its growth. Wall Street's exasperation with Yahoo's financial malaise caused the company's stock to sink below $9 in late 2008. The company's stock is now hovering around $43, a level that hasn't been touched since 2006. Most of the comeback occurred during the past two years as investors latched on to Yahoo's stock to profit from Alibaba's success leading up to the IPO. Yahoo now must decide what to do with the money that will pour in from Alibaba's IPO. Mayer has promised that at least half the amount, after taxes, will be returned to shareholders through dividends or, more likely, buying back stock. That leaves open the possibility that Yahoo might use the rest of the money from the Alibaba IPO to help finance an acquisition of another internet company like AOL Inc. or a hot startup like the social media company Pinterest in its latest attempt to revive its business. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
APPBC brews Pabst Blue Ribbon, a beer immensely popular with a cult following.The Russian firm Oasis Beverages has entered into an agreement to buy the iconic American brewer Pabst Brewing Company, in partnership with TSG Consumer Partners, an American private-equity firm. PBC brews Pabst Blue Ribbon, the beer that has made a comeback over the last decade thanks to a dedicated cult following. The company, which has been in existence since 1844, also makes other popular brands like Colt 45, Schlitz, and Old Milwaukee. It now partners with Oasis, the largest independent brewer in Russia. "Pabst Blue Ribbon is the quintessential American brand – it represents individualism, egalitarianism, and freedom of expression – all the things that make this country great," Eugene Kashper, the chairman of Oasis Beverages, said in a statement.  "The opportunity to work with the company’s treasure trove of iconic brands, some of which I started my career selling, is a dream come true. It will be an honor to work with Pabst's dedicated employees and partner distributors as we continue to build the business." Kashper said the company would continue to be based out of Los Angeles. Precise terms of the deal weren't immediately disclosed. "We are delighted at Mr. Kashper's and TSG's strong commitment to growing the unique Pabst portfolio, and we are very supportive of the new ownership group and their exciting plans for the future," said Dean Metropoulos, a current co-owner of PBC. FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Richard DrewSpecialist Glenn Carell, center, the specialist scheduled for the Alibaba IPO, works at his post on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange Wednesday, Sept. 17, 2014.Chinese e-commerce behemoth Alibaba goes public on the New York Stock Exchange today in what will be the biggest IPO ever. Companies have been going public on the NYSE literally since the beginning of the NYSE, so you'd think they'd be good at it. But with recent IPO blunders, focus has ramped up on the exchanges and professionals who handle these things. According to AP, Glenn Carell will be the specialist in charge of the Alibaba IPO. Specialists are the people responsible for making the market in the stock. "The specialist holds an inventory of the stock, posts the bid and ask prices, manages limit orders and executes trades," Investopedia explains. "Specialists are also responsible for managing large movements by trading out of their own inventory. If there is a large shift in demand on the buy or sell side, the specialist will step in and sell out of their inventory to meet the demand until the gap has been narrowed." Good luck, Glenn! FREE AppDownload
Alibaba is going public on Friday. You've probably heard all the important stats already. It's going to have the largest initial public offering (or "IPO") in US history. Shares will be priced today after the markets close at 4:00 PM and are expected to be between $60-$66. But you still might be confused about how IPOs actually work. Luckily, the NYSE has this nifty infographic that explains the whole thing for you. Check it out. NYSE
No, these folks aren't lined up for the iPhone 6. These people are here for Alibaba's IPO on Friday. And it's already insane outside the New York Stock Exchange. Take a look.   And so it begins! It's Alibaba IPO day at @nyse. pic.twitter.com/QyfMsoLokB   Jack Ma $BABA and Jet Li outside the NYSE pic.twitter.com/8RHUytpP6P A $BABA selfie for @JoeSquawk pic.twitter.com/qY7oXDtbzG   “@CNBC: Meet the billionaires of Alibaba: http://t.co/OhH4kW9w4I (via @robtfrank) $BABA pic.twitter.com/vUFo9Mdt3u”@SquawkCNBC good selfie There's a huge crowd outside the NYSE.    Outside the @NYSE, a large crowd is already forming ahead of the #AlibabaIPO: http://t.co/YAhX6JjaCV (via @sallyshin) pic.twitter.com/uzOZc30f2Q   This is where $BABA will begin trading tomorrow morning at the @nyse. The calm before the storm. @CNBCClosingBell pic.twitter.com/dHbevAp8EB   Calm before the storm... @AlibabaTalk @nyse @CNBC pic.twitter.com/FKVHx7mINI Tom Farley of @NYSE tells me he's confident, but not overconfident ahead of $BABA IPO. More @CNBC pic.twitter.com/PuoIGlTA64 When will Alibaba open? NYSE's Farley says "it's going to take a while," adding it could be 2 hours, could be 3. pic.twitter.com/zYal9YGrgU Alibaba's Joe Tsai and @davidfaber chatting before the opening bell. It's about to get crazy on the floor! $BABA pic.twitter.com/vLaodkBCoU Head of listings @nyse Scott Cutler joins me inside $BABA trading post to walk thru IPO process ahead of BIG debut. pic.twitter.com/lGRTzjYvmc Heading to post 9 @CNBC pic.twitter.com/TPweOufzu0 Ali.baba. pic.twitter.com/bS5i5i09tC Incredible energy at @NYSEEuronext today. $BABA IPO. We're trading it live @CNBCFastMoney 12et w/ @ScottWapnerCNBC pic.twitter.com/HpuzGoDP6s Tune in: @carlquintanilla @jimcramer @davidfaber pic.twitter.com/Pw7WbytbyC Jack Ma and @carlquintanilla on @SquawkStreet @CNBC pic.twitter.com/h7HZAy6H7d Lads at #Post8 are ready to go! $BABA pic.twitter.com/BBgUTqOdqF #Alibaba Founder &amp; Executive Chairman Jack Ma, Executive Vice-Chairman Joe Tsai &amp; CEO Jonathan Lu await #FirstTrade. pic.twitter.com/n4TswXL1CP Somewhere in that pit is Jack Ma, as rumors swirl everywhere about how the stock will price. pic.twitter.com/ZVMDdEvGj7 Jack Ma and @carlquintanilla on @SquawkStreet @CNBC pic.twitter.com/h7HZAy6H7d The scrum around Jack pic.twitter.com/PQkX5cEi7b Judge in the house. $BABA playbook w/@ScottWapnerCNBC @optionmonster @petenajarian @reformedbroker @murphyrosecliff pic.twitter.com/jI1Suv4JM0 The madness of crowds. $BABA @CNBCClosingBell pic.twitter.com/it1IpEjrz5 "[Alibaba] is still probably 30 minutes away from opening.” - Scott Cutler, head of global listings at @nyse $BABA pic.twitter.com/yUHrfitj43 &amp; snapped this from our NYSE perch...o so meta. pic.twitter.com/lyzb7dN1tS Awaiting the Alibaba $BABA open #AlibabaIPO @CNBC @SquawkStreet pic.twitter.com/fSgwuPqrGL FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFederal Reserve Bank of Richmond President Jeffrey Lacker testifiesWASHINGTON (Reuters) - Richmond Fed President Jeffrey Lacker said in a statement on Friday that his dissent from the Federal Reserve's so called exit strategy plan stemmed from its approach toward mortgage-backed securities. The Fed announced on Wednesday a new set of plans related to whittling down its $4.4 trillion balance sheet and moving to a more normal monetary policy. As part of its plan, the policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee said it currently does not anticipate selling agency mortgage-backed securities as part of the normalization process. Limited sales may be warranted in the future, it said. Lacker has previously opposed the Fed's purchase of mortgage-backed securities (MBS) because he feels it singles out a certain sector and gives it an advantage. He repeated that view on Friday. "I believe this approach unnecessarily prolongs our interference in the allocation of credit," Lacker said. "While this would favor home mortgage borrowers, it tilts the playing field against other borrowing by consumers."  (Reporting by Michael Flaherty; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Toby MelvilleA trader at IG Index looks at his screens, in central London September 19, 2014JonesTrading's Dave Lutz has what traders are buzzing about right now. Good Morning, and Happy Friday!   Heavy volumes today, as Scotland votes “NO” / We have a “Quad Witch” expiry (Futures and Index Options expire on Open, Single Stocks on the close) / a S&amp;P and EuroStoxx rebalance / The Alerian MLP Indicies rebalance, along with the ARCA Gold Miners / The BABA comes / Finally the S&amp;P trades ex-dividend (SPY).  (Rebal details will be in WTAW).  Other Scheduled Catalysts today include US LEI at 10 – there is NO POMO at 11 – Moody’s French review after 11:30 -  Baker Hughes Rig Count at 1, and “Commitment of Traders” data at 3:30  BABA was priced conservatively at $68, chatter it is trading 30% higher in the Grey market, while YHOO is marked up 1% (ISI says YHOO will move .89 for every $5bn in BABA valuation).   We have futures marked higher, led by a 40bp pop in the Russell.   The FTSE is the best performing market over in Europe, as Scotland votes 55% “NO” – Scottish exposed shares leading the upside.   Spain’s market is close behind, as yields are 8bp tighter as Scot vote dampens Catalonia fears.   We have heavy volume overseas, with the DAX and FTSE trading 2x normal, but probably due to rebalance/expiry.    We have some stress though, as the DAX is well off it’s best levels as Euros move toward Bunds – may be some Ukraine stress building into the weekend, as the MICEX is off 1.5% early.    We also need to stay aware of the Moody’s review of France after the EU close – Heavy chatter they will downgrade earlier in the week, which French officials are decrying as “false” this AM. Over in Asia, Tokyo jumped to its highest level since November 2007 after Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said he would quickly reform the country’s $1.2tn pension fund so it could buy more stocks, and the Yen got slammed against the surging Dollar.   Keep an eye on the British Pound, having rallied over recent days in anticipation of a No vote, the pound seems to be suffering from a classic case of “buy the rumor sell the fact” as it loses ground against the $.    US 2YY are retreating from 3Y highs, and while the 10Y Treasuries and Bunds are flat – they have reversed overnight losses pretty quickly.    With the $ rallying, we continue to have a headwind for Commodities.   Brent is flat, but WTI is under pressure into Monday’s expiry – while the metals remain under pressure - Silver 1Y+ lows.   Grains and Beans?  They still hate ‘em as chatter increases of transportation issues. FREE AppDownload
© AFP/File Leon NealVotes are counted in the Royal Highland Centre in Edinburgh, Scotland, on September 18, 2014Scotland may have rejected independence but will now be handed new powers by Britain which could amount to effective home rule -- though experts warn that agreeing these could be messy. "Devo max" -- greater powers which fall short of full independence -- was not on the referendum ballot paper. Britain's three main political parties ahead of the referendum agreed that Scotland could set more of its own laws from next year if it voted "No". "The status quo is gone," British Prime Minister David Cameron said on Monday in his final Scottish speech of the campaign. "There is no going back to the way things were. A vote for 'No' means real change." Cameron was now expected to make an announcement as early as Friday for an overhaul of local governance in Britain. Analysts say London needs effectively to hand Scotland's First Minister Alex Salmond full control of domestic policy -- and even this may not kill off calls for another independence referendum. "If 'Yes' loses, Mr Salmond still wins," political commentator Andrew Rawnsley wrote before the vote in Sunday's Observer newspaper. "Even if the union wins a reprieve, the argument is clearly not going to end there." Negotiations will now start between Cameron's Conservatives, coalition partners the Liberal Democrats and the main opposition Labour party on what extra powers to give the Scottish Parliament, which was set up in 1999 and already controls areas like health and education. A policy paper due in November will outline what these new steps will be. They are likely to include greater control over taxation and some state benefits payments. Draft laws on decentralisation could then be ready by January. AFPThis fast timetable was agreed when Britain's former prime minister Gordon Brown stepped into the debate after an opinion poll just 10 days before the vote gave the "Yes" camp a lead. Brown has promised Scotland "nothing less than a modern form of home rule." Polls suggest this would be popular with the public. Asked what should happen next after a "No" vote, 67 percent said Scotland's parliament should take primary responsibility for tax and welfare benefits, according to poll trackers What Scotland Thinks in August. But some say Brown's timescale is too fast to be realistic given differences between the three parties on what they are prepared to give away. "To rush headlong into new legislation may curry favour in the short term but is unlikely to provide a lasting settlement," wrote Professor Nicola McEwen of Edinburgh University in a blog this month. McEwen told AFP that Salmond's Scottish National Party, in power north of the border, is also likely to put forward its own proposals "which would look completely different to what is on the table now." Assuming an agreement can be reached for Scotland, it would increase pressure for more powers to be handed to other parts of the United Kingdom -- the English regions plus Wales and Northern Ireland. There would also be an irony in the situation for Cameron. When negotiations were taking place on what questions should be on the referendum ballot paper, it was reportedly the SNP who wanted "devo max" included. The pro-union side, led by Cameron, is thought to have opposed it in a bid to secure a simple outright win for "No". The promises made by the British government have also prompted politicians in Cameron's Conservative party to call for the same treatment for England. Newspapers in northern England on Friday united to demand more powers for their regions in a "fair deal after so many promises were made to Scotland during the referendum campaign". Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
AP A Chinese court on Friday fined British drugmaker GlaxoSmithKline 3.0 billion yuan ($490 million) following a nearly year-long bribery probe, the company said. The firm's former head of China operations, Mark Reilly, and other ex-officials were given suspended sentences of between two and four years in prison, the official Xinhua news agency said, and would be deported. It did not provide further details. The fine levied by the Changsha Intermediate People's Court after a closed hearing in central Hunan province was the largest ever handed down by a Chinese court, according to Xinhua. It equals the precise amount that China's ministry of public security said last year had been funnelled between GSK and travel agencies since 2007. Police allege that GSK took kickbacks from travel agencies to organise conferences that never took place. The Changsha court ruled that GSK had, "according to Chinese law, offered money or property to non-government personnel in order to obtain improper commercial gains, and been found guilty of bribing non-government personnel," the drugmaker said in a statement. "The illegal activities of GSKCI are a clear breach of GSK plc's governance and compliance procedures; and are wholly contrary to the values and standards we expect from our employees," the company said in an apology posted on its website, adding that it "must work hard to regain the trust of the Chinese people". Neither the statement nor the apology mentioned the sentencing of Reilly or other officials. The verdict comes more than a year after Chinese police first accused Reilly of ordering employees to bribe hospitals, doctors and health institutions to gain billions of dollars in revenue. China's healthcare sector is widely considered to be riddled with graft, partly the result of an opaque tendering system for drugs, and also due to doctors' low salaries. GSK is the most high-profile target of wide-ranging Chinese inquiries into foreign pharmaceutical firms, as Beijing also mounts probes into overseas companies in sectors ranging from cars to baby milk. The investigations come against the backdrop of an anti-graft campaign backed by President Xi Jinping to root out official corruption. Reilly is not the only non-Chinese national to have been ensnared in the probe. Last month, a Shanghai court sentenced British investigator Peter Humphrey and his American wife Yu Yingzeng to two-and-a-half years in jail for breaching privacy laws. The investigators had been hired by GSK to investigate the source of a lurid sex tape of Reilly shortly before the probe went public. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved. Beijing (AFP) - A Chinese court on Friday fined British drugmaker GlaxoSmithKline 3.0 billion yuan ($490 million) following a nearly year-long bribery probe, state media said. The fine, levied by the Changsha Intermediate People's Court after a closed hearing in central China's Hunan province, was the largest such penalty ever, China's official Xinhua news agency reported. Chinese authorities had accused GSK employees of bribing hospitals, doctors and health institutions to gain billions of dollars in illegal revenue. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucy NicholsonPump jacks are seen in the Midway Sunset oilfield, California.(Reuters) - Sand miner U.S. Silica Holdings Inc said demand could triple over the next five years as energy companies use increasing amounts of sand in hydraulic fracturing to extract more oil and gas from shale fields. "We are seeing customers that are using 10,000 tons of sand for one well, and just to put it in perspective, that's a mile long train of sand, to just frac one well," Chief Executive Bryan Shinn told Reuters. Energy companies, eager to unlock more oil and gas from shale fields, are using increasing amounts of sand, boosting demand for U.S. Silica and rivals such as Hi Crush Partners LP and Emerge Energy Services LP. Sand along with water and chemicals is blasted into wells to crack rock and release crude oil and natural gas in hydraulic fracturing, a drilling method that has unleashed a production surge in North America. "(We) see a clear pathway to the volume of sand demand that's out there doubling or tripling in the next four to five years," Shinn said. U.S. Silica sold about 8.2 million tons of sand in 2013. Half of this went to energy companies. The company, whose revenue has doubled over the last four years, expects its sand volumes to grow 30 to 35 percent this year. The company is looking to ramp up fracking sand production capacity to 14 million tons by 2016. The company produced 6 million tons in the quarter ended June. U.S. Silica shares have more than doubled this year and of the 12 analysts covering the company, not one has a sell rating. Two analysts have a hold rating, while the rest have a buy or a higher rating. Analysts on average have pushed up their price targets on U.S. Silica's stock by 60 percent in the last 90 days alone. The median price target on the stock is $80, above the stock's Thursday close of $71.40 on the New York Stock Exchange.   (Writing by Swetha Gopinath in Bangalore; Editing by Don Sebastian) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTraders buy the newly-released Apple iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus smart phones from people who bought the phones earlier from the Apple store, at Hong Kong's Mongkok shopping districtSINGAPORE/TOKYO (Reuters) - Lured by the promise of profit from smuggling the new iPhones into China, opportunists joined the thousands of Apple Inc fans lining up to buy the devices as they were launched on Friday across Asia. Regulatory hurdles mean the iPhone 6 and the larger iPhone 6 Plus won't be available soon in China, the world's biggest smartphone market where Apple products are popular. Benefiting from the delay were many people in Singapore, Hong Kong and Australia, who said they were buying as many iPhones as they could specifically for resale in China. Justin Leung, a 28-year-old financial planner from Hong Kong, said he paid his friends in Japan to buy iPhones, which he plans to sell in mainland China. Leung said he had set out to buy 35 iPhones from Tokyo, but he and his friends only managed to get a hold of 25 units. At an Apple store in Tokyo's up-market Omotesando boulevard, another Chinese man said he had paid a group of Japanese to buy iPhones on his behalf. He declined to identify himself, but was one of several Chinese buyers queuing up at the store on Friday. Apple representatives could not immediately be reached to comment on the practice. China has granted the new iPhone approval for use on domestic frequencies, but the phone cannot be sold in China until a key network license is granted, the official Xinhua news agency said on Thursday. It did not say how long that would take. The delay had given smugglers reason to cheer, with many Hong Kong residents racing to pre-order the phone online. Such is the appeal of the iPhone in China that in Singapore, several people said they were getting paid to queue up to buy the devices with the intent of reselling them to dealers. At a shopping mall in the Marina Bay financial center, Clarence Chen said he and 13 friends had been paid to camped out overnight in front of an Apple store to buy handsets. "Our boss is paying us about $150 (US$120) per job," said the 18-year-old. "We are all buying two - one maybe for ourselves, the other to sell." Chen declined to identify who had hired him and his friends but said the phones will probably be sold to a dealer. Chinese national Shawn Shen, 32, said he was not an iPhone fan but took the day off work to queue to buy two units. "If I can get money from selling it, the wait is worthwhile," he said, adding that he expected to make earn around $300 from selling the phone to dealers. ($1 = 1.2672 Singapore dollar) (Additional reporting by Rujun Shen in SINGAPORE and Kinling Lo in HONG KONG; Writing by Teppei Kasai; Editing by William Mallard and Miral Fahmy) FREE AppDownload
RetailMeNot The founder of global offer site Retailmenot, Bevan Clark, says naivety was one of the best attributes the company had when they were starting out. They didn’t do any market sizing, research or hiring when they got going. Clark said they didn’t really have any mentors when they were starting out, something which in hindsight he conceded would’ve helped. Launching in 2006 with co-founder Guy King, the company has since listed on the Nasdaq and this year posted net revenues of $59.5 million, an increase of 37% year-on-year but net profit was $4.3 million down 16% compared to 2013 because of increased investment in product development. Clark told Business Insider: “There were a whole bunch of ways that we were naive.” In 2006 Clark started sleeping with his phone, working around the clock, had his first child and bought his first home. He had a lot going on. At first the boys didn’t fully grasp what they were sitting on. “We had every single coupon for every single merchant, which our users picked up very quickly,” Clark said, adding giving users ownership over coupons turned out to be the big differentiator. “We weren’t aware about how just creating something that was really useful to consumers but actually steps on the toes of so many people with a vested interest.” At the start there was a fair bit of negativity from their competitors. “We were served with countless cease and desist letters from merchants sometimes,” Clark said, adding a merchant’s legal department would send them an order asking Retailmenot to stop linking back to their site and talking about their coupon codes. “We would abide by them generally speaking and then about a month or so later we would get an email from their marketing department… saying ‘what the hell has happened to all our traffic? What have you done, why have you removed us?’,” he said. “One hand didn’t know what the other hand was doing [in these big companies].” Starting up in Australia back in 2006, the startup landscape was desolate and looking back on the journey Clark said they “probably should’ve gone to the US earlier.” He said Australia is “a mixed bag”. The startup ecosystem is starting to evolve and “it’s definitely easier now” as a launch pad. However later stage investment is “still hard.” “But if you’re Australian you should definitely startup here, spend a few years here.” This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
AP/Abbas DullehHealth worker's spray each other with disinfectant chemicals as they worked with a suspected Ebola virus death in Monrovia, Liberia.As the human tragedy of the deadly Ebola virus in West Africa continues to escalate with 2,461 already dead, the World Bank has warned the economic impact could deal a catastrophic blow to already fragile countries. World Bank analysts say the impact on the three core countries is already serious and if containment of the virus is slow, the impact could result in economic costs numbering in the billions. The World Bank estimates: As the chart below shows, the likely economic impact of the Ebola epidemic will be significant for the affected countries in any of the three scenarios, even assuming the outbreak can be brought under control this calendar year. However, the scenario in which the epidemic is not swiftly contained promises to leave a much deeper economic scar.World Bank For the three core countries, the forfeited GDP in 2015 comes to $97 million in the Low Ebola case and a striking $809 million in the High Ebola case. The World Bank’s emergency response to the crisis is to help contain the spread of infection, assist countries in coping with the economic impact and improve public health systems throughout West Africa. The bank is mobilising a $230 million financing package for the three countries hardest hit by Ebola. This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Cathal McNaughtonScotland voted for the No campaign, and markets cheered.Morning! Here are the big stories making an impact on the world on Friday. 1. Scotland Voted NO To Independence. By a margin of 55% to 45%, Scotland’s electorate rejected the opportunity to become independent. That’s not the end of it: The promises made late in the campaign probably mean all the countries in the United Kingdom will be getting new powers. 2. Markets Are Loving The No Vote. The FTSE is up, and even the Spanish IBEX stock index is feeling the love, up 1.35%. Analysts and investors are shaking off some of the uncertainty from the recent weeks of close polls. France's CAC 40 and Germany's DAX are up 0.54% and 0.91% respectively. 3. Alibaba Is Going To Have The Biggest IPO Ever. Alibaba priced its IPO Thursday after the close, at $68 per share, raising $21.8 billion from institutional investors. Trading on the shares will begin in New York Friday. 4. China Just Hit GlaxoSmithKline With A Record-Setting Fine. The state charged the pharmaceuticals giant the equivalent of $488.8 million over alleged bribery and jailed former executives. The country has been cracking down on western companies operating in China. 5. Ford Is Cutting Fiesta Production In Europe. Ford is slowing down production on one of its popular hatchback models, blaming sluggish demand in the struggling eurozone. 6. The Yen Slumped To A 6-Year Low Against The Dollar. The yen reached 109 against the dollar on Thursday night, the lowest since 2008. Despite this, Japan's finance minister says US Treasury Secretary Jack Lew didn't raise the topic with him. 7. Oracle CEO Larry Ellison Has Stepped Down. The software firm announced that Safra Catz and Mark Hurd would be taking over after some slightly disappointing results. 8. 56 Million Card Details Stolen From Home Depot. Criminals used unique, custom-built malware to evade detection in the breach, the company said. 9. France Is Attacking ISIS In Iraq. The French air force joins the US in attacking the militant group in the north of Iraq, the first European country to do so. 10. Software Giant SAP Is Spending $7 Billion On Concur Technologies. The German firm will acquire the US-based expense management company if shareholders approve the deal. FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/ RIA Novosti, Alexei Druzhinin, PoolVladimir Putin speaks at a meeting with government officials and foreign investors in Salekhard, just above the Arctic Circle in 2009. Putin invited investors to develop the huge untapped gas region in the Yamal peninsula in Siberia.MOSCOW (Reuters) - Dozens of Russian energy ventures are in jeopardy due to Western sanctions on technology and funding. Looming over them all, a giant project the Kremlin is bent on saving no matter what. The Yamal plan, a $27 billion investment to tap vast natural gas reserves in northwest Siberia, aims to double Russia's stake in the fast-growing market for liquefied natural gas. If it stays on track, it will also show the West that the world's largest energy industry is not cracking under sanctions. Russia has said it will make sure Yamal has the resources it needs to keep building. But that pledge will be tested: Yamal's gas is so far in the Arctic North that it requires specialized technology often provided by Western partners - many of which will not be able to operate because of the restrictions. And while Yamal's shareholders have already invested $6 billion in it, U.S. and EU action has now effectively cut off the Russian energy firm's access to Western lending. Nonetheless, bankers and analysts returning from a recent trip to Yamal said they were impressed by the project's status. Some said it was hard to tell that Yamal's controlling shareholder, gas firm Novatek, and its billionaire co-owner Gennady Timchenko were subject to some of the most severe U.S. and EU sanctions targeting Putin after he annexed Crimea in eastern Ukraine and lent backing to pro-Russia separatists. "I was astonished by the pace and amount of work that has been done," said Maxim Moshkov, oil analyst at UBS. Some 6,000 people are currently working on the project and the number will rise to 15,000 next year. "They work day and night... Having been there, I realised the project will most likely become a reality," Moshkov said. Andrey Polishchuk from Raiffeisen bank said: "They are building a new airport, storage tanks. Ships are coming to a nearby port one after another. Some are unloading goods, some are waiting to unload". Yamal has powerful partners - French oil major Total and China's CNPC. Total said this week that despite the sanctions it would not be stopping work on Yamal and has suggested that, given Europe relies on Russia for a third of its gas, it would be risky to slow down the project. Yamal will start exports from 2018 and has already pre-sold most of its future output to buyers in Europe and Asia. It will ultimately export 16.5 million tonnes of LNG a year - equal to 6 months of French gas consumption. Novatek, along with gas monopoly Gazprom, has so far escaped European sanctions, but the fact that it is on the U.S. sanctions list makes it almost impossible for it to raise money for the project. So Total is still clear to participate in Yamal. But its ability to finance its share in it through U.S. or European banks has been drastically limited. "Can we live without Russian gas in Europe? The answer is no. Are there any reasons to live without it? I think - and I'm not defending the interests of Total in Russia - it is a no," Total boss Christophe De Margerie told Reuters. Timchenko, co-owner of Novatek, is also a force to be reckoned with - his closeness to Russian President Vladimir Putin giving him heft even as it makes him a target for sanctions. In March 2014, the United States slapped the first round of sanctions on him, explaining: "Timchenko's activities in the energy sector have been directly linked to Putin". Putin subsequently made Timchenko Russia's point person for business relations - including the development of key gas projects - with China. Timchenko has said China, which has a 20 percent stake in Yamal through CNPC, has agreed to lend $20 billion before the end of 2014. But there is still work to do to win that loan. "We have had communications from higher management over compliances that we shall strictly follow international rules," a Chinese banking executive told Reuters on condition of anonymity given the delicate nature of the negotiations. "Basic principles are - we shall not deal with entities that are sanctioned...We don't want the U.S. to find excuses to give us trouble." If China can't put up the money, Putin is likely to. The Russian government, which has accumulated the world's third largest forex reserves of $460 billion, has said it will invest money in profitable projects which can guarantee hefty payouts to state coffers in the future. Various officials have pledged support to Gazprom, state oil firm Rosneft and pipeline and railway monopolies Transneft and RZhD. And Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev told Novatek's chief and co-owner Leonid Mikhelson that Russia would support other companies too, irrespective of their ownership structure. "Should (their Chinese lending) plan fail, they can count on state support. The government has made it clear it will not allow it to fail," said a Western oil executive close to the project. The crunch point for Yamal will come next year when France's engineering firm Technip needs to deliver the core liquefaction plant - technology that Russia is lacking. Technip told Reuters this week it was moving forward with the project. It had earlier warned about the risks to its income from sanctions on Russia. If Technip should run into difficulties - the pace at which sanctions have evolved in the past months suggests more could yet be in the offing - Russia might be able to source the technology from China, which has in recent years become able to design and build large LNG plants. "There might be an opportunity lurking in terms of supplying our own gas liquefaction technology," said an engineering executive at CNPC. (Additional reporting by Aizhu Chen, Vladimir Soldatkin, Denis Pinchuk and Sandrine Bradley; Editing by Sophie Walker) FREE AppDownload
AP Images On Thursday, Scottish voters headed to the polls. When the votes were counted, the tally came in 55% "No" and 45% "Yes." "But that is not the end of the story," wrote Societe Generale analysts. "The Scots pulled back from the brink but much now remains to be done." Indeed, those 45% still have demands, and they're unlikely to go quietly. "The status quo in Scotland is not going to remain, as there will be devolution of further powers to the Scottish parliament," UBS's Paul Donovan said. It could be months before we have some clarity. "Not only do the details of devolution for Scotland have to be worked out but also the UK government has to address the demands for English devolution and to correct the imbalances of voting rights within the UK parliament," SocGen added. "This will remain a challenging time for the government in the run-up to next May’s general election." The next huge twist could come early next year. Lorcan Roche Kelly of Agenda Research explains: We feel the clamour of “us too!” calls for devolution for England, Wales and Northern Ireland will delay this process beyond the life of the current parliament.... Which means that next May’s UK general election will be fought on allowing devolved powers to all UK member states on the one hand, and a promise of an in-out referendum on EU membership on the other. So that will be exciting. In the meantime, markets are really liking the results. Stocks are up everywhere, and the pound has rallied hard (though it's cooled off a bit today) Meanwhile, Catalonia will hold its own independence referendum on Nov. 9.    FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA box of Cheerios cereal containing protein is seen in this photo illustration in WilmetteNEW YORK (Reuters) - Though diet studies disagree about what's worse for you, carbohydrates or fat, most say nice things about eating protein, including its potential for better weight control. U.S. consumers have taken note, and so have food manufacturers and restaurant chains. More than a dozen companies have introduced new products or meals that are "enriched" or "fortified" with protein in the last few years, and the protein push is accelerating. In July, Taco Bell &lt;yum.n&gt; started selling high-protein meals, which contain Greek yogurt options and twice the meat as in its traditional burritos and bowls. In May, General Mills Inc &lt;gis.n&gt; introduced protein-enriched Cheerios, which provided a bright spot at its Wednesday earnings call. In February, Kraft &lt;krft.o&gt; started selling a "protein pack" with meat, cheese and nuts. Protein has so far scored a big win for the companies, which are looking for new ways to beef up their profits as sales of traditional prepared foods slip and consumers seek healthier and fresher food options. The trend also has been a boon for the mostly Canadian "pulse" industry, which provides the dried seeds of peas, chickpeas, beans and lentils used to fortify many of these products. Whether these protein-enhanced products are actually healthier is another question. Soy, lentil and pea powder - extracted from those legumes and used in everything from pasta to milk - are, in fact, good sources of protein similar to steak or eggs, nutritionists said. But many of the products they are delivered in, such as granola, cereal and breakfast bars, are often high in fat, salt or sugar. Besides, most Americans already get almost twice the daily protein they need. The average American consumes 79 grams a day of protein, but men only need 56 grams and women 46, according to the United States Department of Agriculture. "Protein is not deficient in U.S. diets," said Marion Nestle, professor of nutrition and public health at New York University. "This is about marketing." Some studies have said that because eating foods high in protein makes people feel fuller sooner, they tend to eat less and may be able to control their weight better. On the other hand, eating too much protein can lead to kidney disease, cancer and osteoporosis, while adults who eat diets high in animal protein are four times more likely to die of cancer and diabetes than those with low-protein diets, according to a March 2014 study published in the journal Cell Metabolism. To be sure, people would need to consume at least twice their recommended daily amount to potentially suffer serious health consequences, according to the USDA. The recommended amount is 0.8 grams per two pounds of weight, or 80 grams a day for a 200-pound man. "Consumers think of protein as a hard-working calorie," said General Mills Chairman and CEO Ken Powell in an interview with Reuters. That is fueling demand for everything from protein bars to Greek yogurt, he said. "It's clearly an opportunity." As the food industry scrambles to meet the demand, the effect has been felt along the supply chain, especially in Canada where most of the ground protein for U.S. food-makers is produced. Canada produced a record 6 million tons of pulse in 2013, up from 4.5 million tons in 2012 and 4.3 million tons in 2011, according to Pulse Canada, an industry association that represents Canadian growers and processors. Privately-held Best Cooking Pulses Inc in Portage la Prairie, Manitoba, has quadrupled its capacity in the last year, and opened a second plant to process the seeds. "I see it being a fantastic opportunity," said Murad Al-Katib, president and CEO of Alliance Grain Traders in Regina, Saskatchewan, one of the world's largest lentil and pea processing companies. "Where we’re seeing a lot of that growth is new product lines from major food companies."   BANKING ON PROTEIN Food makers are eager to find new sources of revenue. Consumption of carbohydrate-laden foods has fallen 5 percent in the United States while consumption of protein-rich foods has risen 7 percent, according to a recent report by Credit Suisse investment analyst Robert Moskow. Protein is becoming ubiquitous: It's piling up in extra meat servings at fast food restaurants and in everything from cereals to biscuits to cream cheese. Dairy companies are even adding protein to milk, which already has about 8 grams per serving. Shamrock Farms, a Phoenix-based milk producer, began selling its "Rockin' Refuel" muscle building milk in 2009 with added protein. The company is now expanding the line with additional sizes and flavors because of double digit sales growth. Food makers also are repackaging existing products to appeal to protein seekers. For example, Kraft recently began selling its "P3 Portable Protein Pack," which features its Planters peanuts, Oscar Mayer luncheon meats and Kraft cheese in one package. The company said the P3 is "one of our big bets" for 2014. It has "helped our business attract new consumers," said Kraft spokesman Basil Maglaris, who wouldn't provide sales numbers. General Mills, which Wednesday reported lower-than-expected quarterly profit, is counting on its protein-fortified snacks and expanded Yoplait Greek yogurt line to boost profits. It plans to expand distribution of its recently introduced Cheerios Protein, fortified with soy and pea protein, which at 26 cents an ounce costs significantly more than the 19-cents an ounce traditional oat Cheerios. Its Nature Valley protein bars, introduced in 2012, made over $100 million in sales in their first year. Its Yoplait Greek yogurt line, which contains twice the protein as generic yogurt, debuted in 2012 and in its first year netted $150 million in sales. Morningstar equity analyst Erin Lash said these are impressive figures considering that 81 percent of new consumer packaged goods failed to hit $7.5 million in first-year sales in 2011. General Mills is counting on consumers like Maryland college student Madeleine Entwistle. "I'm cautious about the food I eat," said the 20-year-old, who said she eats a couple of its Nature Valley protein bars a day. "I would expect that it costs more because it has more nutrients. But I associate the foods as being better for me."     (Additional Reporting By Anjali Athavaley; Editing by Jilian Mincer, Eric Effron and John Pickering) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueU.S. Treasury Secretary Jack LewCAIRNS Australia (Reuters) - U.S. Treasury Secretary Jack Lew on Friday called on the euro zone and Japan to do more to spur growth as the global economy continues to disappoint, highlighting what is sure to be a bone of contention as Group of 20 ministers meet in Australia. While lauding the strength of the U.S. economy, Lew said more work was needed to achieve faster and more balanced economic growth and to boost demand in what he called "surplus" countries. Lew appeared to mean countries that have current account surpluses. "The United States continues to be a source of strength in the global economy," Lew said in remarks with his Australian counterpart Joe Hockey. "But overall, the global economy continues to underperform. This is particularly true in the Euro Area and Japan, while a number of emerging market economies are also slowing," Lew said at the start of a G20 meeting of finance ministers and central bankers in the northern Australian city of Cairns. His call is likely to get a cool reception from the Europeans. Speaking during a stopover in Hong Kong, Germany's Finance Minister Wolfgang Schauble said his country's economy was robust and that it was important for Europe to stick with the tough path of fiscal reform. "We are in the global economy and in Europe in a situation, in which we seem to have too much liquidity and too much public debt," Schauble told reporters. PRESSURE ON BERLIN "That means the room to stimulate growth from the demand side and the monetary-policy-side is - with regional differences - small<U+200E>," the German minister said. Berlin has been under intense pressure to allow the euro zone to ease back on fiscal austerity and to stimulate its own economy through more government spending or tax cuts. The OECD slashed its growth forecasts for major developed economies on Monday, urging Europe to do more to ward off the risk of deflation. U.S. and other G20 officials have previously flagged concerns about Europe's tepid economic growth and want Germany to do more to help its neighbours by spending and importing more. Along with boosting growth, G20 members are working towards finalising regulations aimed at avoiding a repeat of the global financial crisis. Both Lew and Hockey expressed confidence in achieving breakthroughs on some key issues, including the additional capital requirements for banks deemed "too big to fail".   (Reporting by Australian bureau; Editing by Paul Tait and Richard Borsuk) FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsTOKYO (Reuters) - The yen's rapid descent to six-year lows against the dollar is starting to push beyond comfort zones for three quarters of Japanese firms, a Reuters poll showed, highlighting the potential for profits to be squeezed as import costs climb. Japan struggled with a strong currency for much of the past decade, only gaining sustained relief from late 2012 as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe came to power and embarked on bold monetary stimulus. But this past month, the yen has tumbled about 6 percent to trade around 109 yen against the greenback, pressured by growing expectations that the Federal Reserve will lift interest rates sooner than forecast and speculation that the Bank of Japan may have to ease further. That decline now threatens to further boost the cost of raw materials and fuel at a time when the economy is straining from the impact of a sales tax hike. "Our business is slowing due to a marked increase in the cost of imports caused by the weak yen," an executive at a textile manufacturer wrote in the survey. "Retail sales at department stores remain slack." The Reuters Corporate Survey showed only 25 percent of companies prefer an exchange rate of 105 yen or weaker, with 47 percent seeing 100-104 yen as the most desirable range and 28 percent preferring a yen at 99 to the dollar or stronger. Conducted for Reuters by Nikkei Research from Aug. 29 to Sept. 12, the survey polled 486 firms capitalized at more than 1 billion yen which responded on condition of anonymity. About 260 firms answered questions on foreign exchange.  STIMULUS SEEN The survey also showed 73 percent of firms believe authorities should craft fresh stimulus measures if they proceed with a plan to raise the sales tax further to 10 percent from 8 percent next year in a bid to curb runaway government debt. The other respondents saw no need for more stimulus. The results follow the Reuters Tankan survey which showed confidence at Japanese manufacturers fell the most in nearly two years in September - both polls underlining how fragile the recovery is and how Abe must delicately balance the need to sustain growth and manage the country's debt levels. Government officials say they stand ready to deploy fresh fiscal stimulus to limit the impact of a tax hike. BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda, a former Finance Ministry official who supports the tax hike as part of needed fiscal reform, has repeatedly said he sees no need to ease monetary policy now but would not hesitate to increase the central bank's massive asset purchases if necessary. Asked to name their preferred form of stimulus, 28 percent of companies said additional monetary easing, 26 percent called for further tax breaks to promote investment and 17 percent urged measures to sustain share prices. Only 8 percent saw a need for steps directly aimed at weakening the yen, another sign that further depreciation could be troublesome. To be sure, some of the biggest corporate names in Japan would still benefit from further yen weakness. Toyota Motor Corp &lt;7203.T&gt;, for example, has said every one yen move lower against the dollar compared to its budgeted rate of 101 yen boosts its annual operating profit by a 40 billion yen ($370 million). But the head of Japan's auto lobby said on Thursday that while current rates were comfortable for his industry, this did not necessarily mean the yen should continue to weaken. "Rising energy costs are concerns for manufacturers in Japan, which is heavily reliant on importing energy-related resources," Fumihiko Ike, also chairman of Honda Motor Co &lt;7267.T&gt;, told a news conference. For big importers like paper manufacturers, yen weakness against the dollar already hurts. "We remain unable to post profits as we cannot raise output prices enough to offset higher raw materials and other costs caused by a weak yen," wrote one manager at a paper company. Government officials have been guarded in their comments about foreign exchange levels, repeating only that rapid swings are undesirable. The survey did have some bright spots. Fifty-seven percent said full-year business results looked in line with their initial projections. Sixteen percent expected to raise their forecasts, while 28 percent were looking for a cut.   (Reporting by Tetsushi Kajimoto Additional reporting by Yoko Kubota and Megumi Lim; Editing by William Mallard and Edwina Gibbs) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersJapan's Finance Minister Taro Aso and U.S. Treasury Secretary Jack Lew shake hands before the start of their bilateral meeting ahead of the G20 Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors meeting in CairnsCAIRNS Australia (Reuters) - Japanese Finance Minister Taro Aso said on Friday there was no discussion on currency moves at his meeting with U.S. Treasury Secretary Jack Lew. He also said the two agreed on the need to achieve sustainable economic growth in Japan and the United States as the euro-zone economy stagnates. Aso made the remarks after meeting with Lew on the sidelines of the Group of 20 finance leaders' weekend gathering in the Australian city of Cairns. The dollar scaled a six-year high against the yen due to growing expectations for higher interest rates in the United States, sending Tokyo stocks to a seven-year high on Friday on hopes the soft yen will boost exporters' earnings.  (Reporting by Leika Kihara; Editing by Chris Gallagher) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe logo of GlaxoSmithKline is seen on its office building in ShanghaiBEIJING (Reuters) - China has fined British pharmaceuticals giant GlaxoSmithKline Plc  3 billion yuan ($488.8 million) for paying out bribes in what is a record penalty for China, state news agency Xinhua said on Friday. Mark Reilly, the former head of GSK in China, and other GSK executives will also be jailed for two to four years, Xinhua said.  (Reporting by Koh Gui Qing and Fiona Li) FREE AppDownload
Hulton Archive/Getty ImagesBERLIN (Reuters) - Ford &lt;f.n&gt; is to cut production of its top-selling European car in the fourth quarter because of slowing demand in some of the region's key markets, it said on Friday. The U.S. carmaker will halt assembly of its Fiesta hatchback at Cologne in Germany, its main European plant, on a total of 11 days in October and November, citing "lower demand" in the second half of the year. Passenger car sales across Europe edged up 1.8 percent in August to 701,118 vehicles but demand fell in Germany, France and Italy - three of the region's top four markets - raising concern among some analysts that momentum is slowing. Ford said it will apply for subsidies under the German government's "Kurzarbeit" short-work program, affecting about 4,000 workers at Cologne. The plant employs 17,300. The scheme was used by many struggling companies in the 2008-09 recession, allowing them to preserve jobs by reducing employees' hours when plant usage was low, with the government compensating workers for part of their lost wages.   (Reporting by Andreas Cremer; Editing by David Goodman) FREE AppDownload
The anti-independence campaign in Scotland has triumphed, and markets were breathing a sigh of relief Friday morning. The pound is up 0.33% against the dollar, climbing as the result became increasingly obvious, now up to around $1.645, and the 5% selloff projected by FxPro’s Angus Campbell has now been consigned to history’s dustbin. The FTSE 100 is up 0.71% at the time of writing, with Scottish companies like Standard Life and Aberdeen Asset Management up by more than 1.5% and among the leaders of the index. RBS, which could have moved south in the result of a Yes vote, is up by more than 4%. The pound’s rally isn’t over, either, according to IHS Global Insight chief UK economist, Howard Archer, in a research note: “We would expect to see a relief rally for the pound allowing it to recoup some of the losses it suffered as the polls showed the independence side gaining.” The Spanish IBEX stock index was up by more than 1% Friday morning, too, with perhaps a little relief in Madrid that Scotland hadn’t set an example for Catalonia. Pretty much everyone in the City is satisfied. Dominic Bryant at BNP Paribas said in a note to investors: “You can almost hear the sigh of relief among Westminster politicians, city analysts, and under-prepared businesses and investors. “Voting No was undoubtedly the less risky choice and avoided what may well have been a significant economic shock to Scotland and the rest of the UK." FREE AppDownload
