REUTERS/China DailyChinese trade data beat expectations rising 10.6% on the year in January. Economists polled by Bloomberg were looking for a 0.1% rise. Meanwhile, imports were up 10% beating expectations for a 4% rise. The trade surplus widened to $31.9 billion, more than expectations for $23.45 billion. "On the one hand, this should make markets more relaxed about both global demand and demand in China’s own economy," Louis Kuijs, chief China economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group said in a note cited by Rachel Butt and Xin Zhou at Bloomberg.  "However, we are also left with a nagging feeling that perhaps issues such as over-invoicing have risen sharply in intensity early this year."  We saw this in trade data last year too, when traders looking for a way to bring more money into the mainland were over-invoicing exports to places like Hong Kong to work around Beijing's capital controls.  Ahead of the release economists had warned that weak external and domestic demand would weigh on trade data. They also urged caution in interpreting the data because of the impact of the Lunar New Year holiday. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlos Barria TOKYO/SYDNEY (Reuters) - Asian shares rallied for a fourth straight session on Wednesday, as upbeat trade data from China and an optimistic economic outlook from Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen whetted investors' appetite for risk. Investors took heart from the strong performance on Wall Street and lifted MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacificshares outside Japan about 0.8 percent. Chinese exports handily beat expectations in January, rising 10.6 percent from a year earlier, while imports jumped 10 percent, leaving the country with a trade surplus of $31.9 billion for the month. "The trade figures were a bit of a surprise to the market," said Zhou Hao, an economist at ANZ in Shanghai. "The stronger-than-expected exports data also showed improvement in the global demand momentum." Australia's main index added 0.7 percent and Japan's Nikkei stock average rose about 0.9 percent. The buoyant mood offset the impact of a much weaker-than-expected report on Japanese machinery orders, which is a leading indicator of capital expenditure. The Dow Jones industrial average ended Tuesday up 1.22 percent, while the S&amp;P 500 gained 1.11 percent to post its best four-day performance in 13 months. Stocks in Canada, Europe and emerging markets also rallied as Yellen was careful to rock no boats in her first testimony to Congress. "Continuity in policy is the main message from Fed Chair Yellen's testimony," said John Peters, a senior economist at Commonwealth Bank of Australia in Sydney. "Equities did well in reaction to the Fed sticking with its relatively upbeat outlook on the economy." "Crucially, the Fed hasn't downgraded its view on the U.S. recovery in light of recent data releases or volatility in markets," he added. "Further QE tapering is on the cards at upcoming FOMC meetings and U.S. yields should continue to rise." The yields on 10-year Treasury notes pushed to two-week highs, rising to 2.724 percent from Tuesday's U.S. close of 2.717 percent. Sentiment got a further lift from news that the U.S. House of Representatives had passed legislation increasing Washington's borrowing authority, removing the danger of default. Stabilization in emerging markets also helped after the turmoil of January. The Turkish lira and the South African rand have been grinding steadily higher for the past two weeks. The calmer mood was reflected in the VIX index of volatility, which dived 4.9 percent to 14.51, pulling sharply away from its recent peak at 21.48. The Australian dollar benefited from the better-than-expected Chinese trade report, adding 0.2 percent to $0.9054 and also edging up against the yen to 92.86. China is Australia's biggest export market. The U.S. dollar was nearly flat on the day against its Japanese counterpart at 102.59, holding onto its gains made in the previous session after Yellen's remarks, while the euro was also steady, at $1.3632. The single currency could be affected by a speech by European Central Bank President Mario Draghi later on Wednesday, while the Bank of England releases a report on inflation which should include an overhaul of forward guidance. {ID:nL3N0LG2GO] In commodity markets, spot gold fell 0.4 percent to $1,285.49 an ounce, snapping a three-day winning streak and giving back some of its sharp overnight gains as stocks rallied. But it was still not far from a three-month high of $1,293.44 hit on Tuesday. Brent crude rose about 0.1 percent to $108.75 a barrel, while U.S. crude gained 0.3 percent to $100.27, also bolstered by data from the American Petroleum Institute showing crude stocks fell by 2.5 million barrels at a key U.S. delivery hub, and by expectations of increased U.S. demand due to cold weather. Three-month copper on the London Metal Exchange rose 0.6 percent to $7,121.25 a ton, reversing losses from the previous session and moving away from a two-month low of $7,016 touched on February 4. (Additional reporting by China economics team; Editing by Chris Gallagher) FREE AppDownload
Mercedes-BenzThe 2015 Mercedes-Benz S-Class Coupe hits U.S. roads this fall.Mercedes-Benz has unveiled the 2015 S-Class Coupe, and it's very exciting. On top of great looks inside and out, the two-door version of the German automaker's flagship sedan is chock full of technologies that promise to make it both luxurious and a beast on the road. Mercedes offers the choice to get headlights packed with 47 Swarovski crystals, but the more impressive technology can't be spotted until the coupe heads into a turn. This is the world premiere of the "active curve tilting function," which makes the car lean into turns, like a motorcyclist or skier. That improves performance and keeps passengers seated more securely on hard curves — making sporty driving even more pleasurable. The S-Class Coupe, which seats four, will make its debut at the Geneva Motor Show. Expect Mercedes to announce pricing closer to its market launch this fall.
Mark Wilson / Getty House Speaker John Boehner (R-OH) speaks to the media while flanked by House Majority Leader Eric Cantor (R-VA).The House of Representatives voted narrowly and in lopsided fashion to pass a "clean" suspension of the nation's debt ceiling on Tuesday. Only 28 Republicans joined all but two Democrats in supporting the measure. Within the Republican caucus, it was clear that there was deep division over the measure. Leadership broke with leadership, party chairs broke with other party chairs, and House Speaker John Boehner (R-Ohio) cast a rare vote in support of the legislation. Here's the list of Republicans that supported the measure: Some of the surprising "no" votes included the fourth-ranking Republican, Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-Wash.), as well as House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan (R-Wis.), who recently helped broker last year's breakthrough budget deal. The final tally was 221-201, with Democrats carrying the vote. Twenty-eight Republicans joined 193 Democrats in voting for the measure. Meanwhile, 199 Republicans and two Democrats voted against it.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mario AnzuoniGraduating student Abel Charron displays a "Hire me" sign written on his mortar board before the 2007 USC School of Cinematic Arts commencement at the University of Southern California in Los Angeles. Every generation likes to believe that it came of age at an especially trying moment in history. Millennials have the Great Recession to lament. Gen X had the dotcom bust. The Boomers had Vietnam. And the Silents had the early Cold War, complete with the not-so-silly threat of nuclear war.  But at least when it comes to the job market, I think we can all agree by now that today's young adults are deserving of at least a few extra pity points. And should there be any doubt, here's a wonderful, one-chart demonstration of why from a new Pew report. At every education level, the 25- to 32-year-olds of 2013 confronted a higher unemployment rate than past generations did when they were stepping into the workforce. And keep in mind, that's 2013—four years after the economy was supposed to have started mending. Pew Research Center I can hear your objections. The Silent Generation grew up in the Great Depression, and even after WWII great swaths of the country were still beset by agrarian poverty most of us can barely imagine today. Too true. The late 1970s clearly weren't a picnic, and to top it off you had to listen to Kansas on the radio. Truly unfortunate. Gen X would look a whole lot less fortunate if that chart showed the unemployment rate in 2002 instead of 1995.  So right! Being young has never been a financial cakewalk. Still, consider this chart something to clip and save for the next time someone writes a column about why so many kids today seem to live in their parents' basements.  Or, if you prefer, you could bust out this little table. According to Pew, not that many more Millennials are living at home compared to recent generations—just 15 percent, versus 12 percent of young Boomers in 1986. God, kids those days.  Pew Research Center FREE AppDownload
Carey Kendall, RealtorFormer SEC Chair Harold Williams is selling his modern California ranch for $15.9 million according to the WSJ. It's designed by the architect who also designed the Getty Museum, Michael Palladino. They met when Williams worked for the J. Paul Getty Trust, which funded the museum. The ranch is being sold in two parcels (if that's what you want), the main house and the 8-stall horse facility. All in all, the ranch includes 5 bedrooms, 5 baths, a gym, an office, and a solar-heated salt water pool. It's also in the middle of wine country. Realtor Carey Kendall has the listing. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Chris WattMarkets are gearing up for Wenesday's inflation report from the Bank of England.  Mark Carney, BoE governor, is expected to present modifications to the forward guidance framework used to guide monetary policy. The current language was first  introduced in August 2013. The unemployment rate has ticked down to 7.1%, and is already close to the 7% threshold for raising interest rates. Of course, the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) did emphasize that reaching threshold wouldn't automatically trigger higher rates, but that it would a time to reassess the state of the economy. "The unemployment rate forecast in conjunction with the threshold is simply a signaling device to tell the markets, and at least as important the public, that it has no intention of raising rates until it is sure the state of the economy warrants it, i.e. not yet," writes Societe Generale's Brian Hilliard. "That intention has not changed so the MPC has to make that very clear by modifying the forward guidance to reassert the message that policy will not yet be tightened." Societe GeneraleHilliard thinks it is unlikely that the MPC will lower the threshold.  It's also unlikely that we'll see individual forecasts of the date of the first rate increase, similar to the Fed, but the Court of Directors of the BoE will likely reject this. It's most likely that the MPC will specify a broad range of labor market indicators to keep an eye on. "For now, we just focus on the unemployment gap which is defined as the difference between the unemployment rate and Bank staff’s estimate of the medium-term equilibrium unemployment rate (MEUR)," writes Hilliard. Jessica Hinds at Capital Economics doesn't think the MPC will raise key rates until Q4 2015. "We suspect that revamped forward guidance will end up being more effective than its predecessor," writes Hinds. "This is due to the fact that it is likely to focus on a wider range of indicators, which will not allow markets to take issue with a specific forecast." Of course the inflation report usually brings updates on GDP and inflation forecasts, but the focus this time around will be on forward guidance. The Bank of England MPC inflation report is out 5:30 a.m. ET on Wednesday. Carney will also be speaking then. FREE AppDownload
APIn a close vote, the House of Representatives has passed a "clean" suspension of the nation's debt limit through March 15, 2015.  The final tally was 221-201, with Democrats carrying the vote. Twenty-eight Republicans joined 193 Democrats in voting for the measure. Meanwhile, 199 Republicans and two Democrats voted against it.  House Speaker John Boehner (R-Ohio) cast a rare vote in favor of the legislation. In a surprising vote against leadership, House Budget Committee Chair Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) voted "no." The legislation now heads to the Democrat-controlled Senate, where it is expected to pass within coming days. Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) has signaled that he plans to push a 60-vote threshold to pass the measure, meaning the measure will need to have some Republican support to pass. The developments that led to Tuesday night's passage came rather quickly. House Republicans moved past a plan early Tuesday to tie a debt-ceiling increase to a restoration of military pension benefits when leadership determined that it did not have enough support. The predictable "clean" solution brings to an end a debate that mostly existed within the Republican conference this time. House Republicans came out of their annual retreat pushing a strategy with such options as repealing an Affordable Care Act provision or Keystone XL Pipeline approval in exchange for a debt-ceiling hike. Neither of those options, however, gained enough support within the Republican caucus. Republicans' last two options included the possibility of attaching a Medicare "doc fix" and/or the military pension restoration to the debt-ceiling legislation. In the end, Republican leaders determined that they couldn't garner enough support for either of those two options. FREE AppDownload
Mike Nudelman/Business InsiderOne of the bedrock arguments of Bitcoin evangelists is that whatever potential for misuse by Bitcoin itself, a widespread attack on Bitcoin services was not possible. Today, that tenet no longer holds true. Bitcoin wallets across the globe came under assault today, resulting in another mini-flash price crash one day after a statement from the MtGox exchange caused prices to fall 20%. Yet almost without exception, the Bitcoin community is refusing to view the incident as anything other than a buying opportunity. Here's the two-sentence version of what happened this afternoon: An unknown entity caused Bitcoin wallets at many exchanges, including the two largest USD-traded ones, to start misinterpreting transactions. The exchanges say no customers lost any money, but the exchanges have had to temporarily shut down withdrawals to correct the issue. MtGox's recent issues may have been rooted in a similar attack, though some believe their problems may be more profound. Whatever the case, Bitcoin fundamentalists remain undeterred. One of the first to spot and summarize the problems on MtGox was Max Hampel, a German physics student living in Austria who runs the blog Coinwatch. He says he is not worried, and simply sees it as a buying opportunity. "Bitcoin is still secure, the network is still working," he said in an IM, adding that his financial interest in Bitcoin is both literally and figuratively negligible. "The developers are working on a fix to this problem, which is not even as grave as portrayed by Gox. These are just minor problems that will be solved as Bitcoin evolves. Don't panic, everything still works." He said he remains on a s student's budget, but would have bought some if he had money to spare. At least one exchange proved itself immune to the attack: Kraken, one of the only Bitcoin exchanges based in the U.S., though its volumes are dwarfed by exchanges like Bitstamp. In an email, site founder Jesse Powell explained that Kraken's wallets were already constructed to avoid precisely the outcome that befell the other exchanges. "We read the manual" he said. And he says there is still no reason to doubt the currency. "This problem has to do with poor design around Bitcoin, not Bitcoin itself.  You don't blame gravity when your plane fails to fly--you understand gravity and design around it. There's a tremendous buying opportunity right now.  I'm recommending everyone I know to jump in." Oleg Andreev, a France-based software developer and commentator, offered a bit more caution. While he agreed Bitcoin will overcome this event, he admitted it's a sign the digital currency remains in its infancy.  "Infrastructure around Bitcoin is being built this very moment," he said in an email. "Exchanges could be better, personal wallets could be much better, ATMs are highly desired and not widely deployed yet, education is very lacking (technical, economical, political), easy website integration is lacking etc etc etc. Everyone who invests understands that to some degree. If Bitcoin appeared to be 'ready to use by your mom', then it'd be $1000000/BTC already and 20% of the world would use it daily." The attack came hours after JPMorgan forex analyst John Normand released a note casting doubt on the digital currency's utility. "What’s not to like about this system? A lot. Recall each of the three functions of money – medium of exchange, unit of account and store of value. As a medium of exchange bitcoin initially seems no better or worse than fiat currencies, since anything portable (like paper or an electronic data file) can be used as that medium so long as enough agents agree to use it. Therein lies bitcoin's limitation: with due apology to anarchists, there is no common power like a government to compel the public to use bitcoin as universally as its own fiat currency.... A virtual currency’s transactional use will always be limited unless it performs the other two functions of money better than a fiat currency. As a unit of account and store of value, bitcoin also falls well short of fiat currencies given its extreme volatility. ...Bitcoin's realized volatility has averaged 120% over the past three years, with a range of 50% to 400%. By comparison, typical G10 currency volatility is 8% with a range of 7% to 16% over the past three years." Normand did not respond to request for comment about today's attack, though in his note he commented that, "Ironically the lack of external oversight may prove an obstacle to significant market deepening, since many market participants would prefer the accountability of known but fallible entities to one based on a mathematical code." The price of Bitcoin as of 5 p.m. Eastern was $637, according to Coindesk. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Paul HannaFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Advisors Need Benchmarks For Retirement Income (The Wall Street Journal)  While investors have benchmarks like the S&amp;P 500 during the wealth accumulation stage, advisors need a retirement benchmark, writes Dan Cassidy of Massachusetts-based P-Solve Cassidy in a new Wall Street Journal column. "A retirement benchmark would help advisers take a 401(k) balance and convert that into retirement income with the lowest amount of risk," he writes. His benchmark would use two components — longevity and inflation risk.  "To manage longevity risk, my benchmark recommends that a 65-year-old client allocate between 10% to 15% of their retirement portfolio to a single-payment deferred life annuity that will only pay the client money if he or she lives past the age of 85. To manage inflation risk, the second component of my benchmark recommends that the client allocate the remaining approximately 85% of their portfolio to Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities, with maturities up to 20 years, to provide retirement income from age 65 to age 85." Rising Interest Rates Will Be A Key Client Conversation Topic In 2014 (Janus Capital Group)  Over 93% of financial advisors surveyed by Janus Capital Group said rising interest rates will be an important topic of conversation with clients this year. The survey also found that advisors are more concerned about rising interest rates than the clients by a nearly 2-1 margin.  "While we believe opportunities exist for risk-adjusted, fixed-income returns, advisors need to initiate conversations about the potential impact of rising interest rates as many of their clients have never seen a significantly down or flat bond market," Colleen Denzler at Janus said. 84% of those surveyed said they will talk about stock market highs and income generation. Blankfein Says Interest Rates Will Rise And That's A Good Thing (Bloomberg TV)  Interest rates have been low for a very long time, but interest are expected to move higher now. Goldman Sachs CEO Lloyd Blankfein told Bloomberg TV, "any time there's a sea change in markets people build their portfolios based on a certain set of assumptions." And that if those assumptions change then investors will see losses. "For example, interest rates have been very low for a very long time. Every company in the world that needed funding went out and funded itself for as long as it could. Every one of those debt instruments that created funding for companies was purchased by an asset manager somewhere who put it in. And if the corporations are better off for having borrowed at a low rate, what does it mean for the people who own that debt? It can't be good for them. It may be good for them prospectively, for pension funds and insurance companies, because they'll get a higher yield on their future purchases, but certainly on their inventory to this far, those might go under water." "What's being suggested is that an adjustment will have to be taken, some losses will have to be acknowledged, but again, it's a normalization. Interest rates can't stay that low and ultimately it's good for savers and investors in long-term liabilities that rates go up and in the short term it might cause a disruption. A steeper yield curve is generally good for banking businesses. It's very hard to make money on a spread on interest rates when interest rates are near zero. Actually it probably would be better for the financial industry players to have interest rates higher in general, and to have it be a steeper yield curve." Wealthy Investors Have One Gigantic Advantage Over The Little Guy (Business Insider)   Our investment decisions are impacted by our behavioral biases. Veteran market strategists Jeff Saut and Richard Russell argue that the behavioral biases of wealthy investors are different from those that aren't wealthy.  "The wealthy investor puts his money where the values are," writes Saut. "And if there are no outstanding values, the wealthy investor waits. He can afford to wait. He has money coming in daily, weekly, monthly. In other words, he doesn’t need the market. He knows what he is looking for, and he doesn’t mind waiting weeks, months or years (they call it patience)." Meanwhile, Russell points out that the "little guy …always feels pressured to ‘make money’, to ‘force the market to do something for him.'" And this makes him a "consistent loser." Merrill Appoints New Head Of Practice Management Program (Investment News)  Bank of America Merrill Lynch is making efforts to stave off the retirement crisis in the financial advisory industry. Merrill Lynch has picked Racquel Oden to head its practice management and development training program, reports Mason Braswell at Investment News. Oden was previously managing director in charge of business development. Dwight Mathis, Oden's predecessor, will now be managing director for the Western Pennsylvania complex in Pittsburgh. "The way we really want to build our adviser census is through hiring and developing our own people," Tom Fickinger, head of adviser growth and development at Merrill told Investment News. "It takes more capital and it is hard, but if you consider the average adviser is 48 years old, trading people back and forth isn't a long-term strategy that can win." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Robert GalbraithCalifornia's Folsom Lake is 17% of its capacityIt may be wet and chilly in the Northeast, but vast swaths of the country — particularly California — have seen seriously dry weather. In fact, more than half of the lower 48 states are in dry or drought-like conditions, according to U.S. Trust's Joseph Quinlan, and it's enough to have him warning clients about the future of water scarcity. "It’s also pretty dry in many parts of the world, with China, India, Australia, and the Middle East experiencing multiyear water challenges that threaten to slow or impair economic activity," he writes. In the near term, Societe Generale economist Aneta Markowska isn't worried about the economic impact of California's drought. From SocGen: There are reasons to believe that this drought will have less severe implications. As shown on the first chart above, the recent drought was localized: while California experienced the driest conditions on record, most other parts of the country experienced normal or above-normal precipitation levels. In contrast, the 2012 drought was much more widespread, having extended through most of the Midwest (May-July) and Pacific Northwest (July- September). Adding up the agricultural output in the affected regions, 2012 appears to have been larger in scope. Based on the comparison, we estimate that the impact of the recent drought in California should not exceed 0.3%, and is likely to be closer to 0.2%. Check out the map: SocGen  In the context of investing, Quinlan says he's bullish on the planet's most precious commodity, water. From his note: Given all the above, our favorite commodity play is not gold, oil, copper, wheat or even rare earth metals. It is something far more mundane but critical—it’s water. That may sound rather ironic given that most of the globe is covered in water. However, 97% of mother earth’s water supply is salty and therefore not fit for daily use. Of the remaining 3%, 2%, while considered fresh water, is locked in snow and ice. That leaves around 1% for human use—or for a global population of 6.5 billion heading for at least 8 billion in the next two decades. Without any doubt, water—two atoms of hydrogen joined to one of oxygen—is the world’s most precious commodity.  Water investments will be worth watching. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Andy ClarkSigns on window advertise a bitcoin ATM machine that has been installed in a Waves Coffee House in Vancouver, British Columbia October 28, 2013.NEW YORK (Reuters) - New York's financial regulator on Tuesday revealed new details on his agency's plans to govern virtual currency firms in the state in order to protect consumers and combat money laundering. Benjamin Lawsky, superintendent of New York's Department of Financial Services, expects to adopt enhanced consumer disclosure rules, capital requirements and a framework for permissible investments with consumer money. Lawsky has said he plans to issue a "BitLicense" for businesses that use the new currencies, and he intends to provide regulations this year, which could make New York the first U.S. state to regulate virtual currencies such as bitcoins. In a speech in Washington on Tuesday, Lawsky said consumers need to know that virtual currency transactions are generally irreversible, and that they could lose their principal if they hold onto bitcoins for an extended period. Lawsky said more challenging questions include what capital requirements firms must have on balance sheets to absorb unexpected losses, and how many risks they can take with investments using consumer money. One issue is whether the firms should be allowed to invest in virtual currencies. "Our objective is to provide appropriate guard rails to protect consumers and root out money laundering - without stifling beneficial innovation," Lawsky said in prepared remarks for an event at the New America Foundation. His agency is still wrestling with whether to ban or restrict the use of "tumblers", which obscure the record and source of virtual currencies. He said tumblers are a concern to law enforcement, but that they might have legitimate uses. He said most virtual currencies have public ledgers which, when combined with know-your-customer guidelines, could serve as anti-money laundering controls. Lawsky added that he is grappling with what types of firms and transactions to regulate. The remarks follow two days of hearings in New York on the potential regulation of virtual currencies. Witnesses at the late January hearings included state and federal prosecutors, as well as industry participants such as the investor twins Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss. Lawsky said the hearings, which were streamed on the agency's website, were watched by more than 14,000 people from 117 countries. He spoke on Tuesday at an event hosted by "Future Tense," a partnership between Slate magazine, the New America Foundation and Arizona State University to explore emerging technologies. (Reporting By Karen Freifeld. Editing by Andre Grenon) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jim BourgNew Federal Reserve Board Chairwoman Janet Yellen smiles as her husband, Nobel economics laureate George Akerlof (R), applauds her after she took the oath of office at the Federal Reserve Board in Washington, Feb. 3, 2014.It was a big day for new Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen. It was also a monster day for the stock market. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
It seems Goldman Sachs may have missed the mark when handing out swag bags to attendees of a Harvard women's coding conference — WECode — last week, which Goldman sponsored. In the bags were Goldman Sachs nail files and cosmetic mirrors.  At least one attendee found the gift off-putting, reports the New York Times. According to the Times, Goldman also provided T-shirts and key chains to hold headphone cords. The firm was encouraged to bring "goodies that would appeal to a female audience." Here is a picture from Instagram, taken by an attendee of the conference: Instagram/The New York Times “Not sure if this is #sexyfeminism or gender stereotyping,” the caption reads. Goldman has since apologized for the gifts. “We are strong supporters of efforts to recruit and retain women in technology. We apologize if the gifts gave anyone offense,” a Goldman Sachs spokeswoman said in a statement to the Times. FREE AppDownload
APIn the wake of the massive security breaches at Target and Neiman Marcus, consumers are scrambling to keep their credit and debit card information safe from identity theft. One overlooked but extremely potent form of protection that some consumers may want to consider is a credit report security freeze. A security freeze, writes New York Times columnist Ron Lieber, is a hold you can place on your credit report that prevents credit bureaus from releasing your information to any company or other entity that doesn’t already have a relationship with you. Because most credit-card issuers, mobile phone providers, and loan officers won't lend without first checking your report, a freeze greatly reduces the chance that a new account will be made in your name without your knowledge. For consumers worried about the increasing vulnerability of their personal information, a security freeze may seem like a no-brainer, but it's not right for everyone. Senior director at Visa Jason Alderman notes  that if you're planning any purchase that requires a credit check (renting an apartment, securing a mortgage, buying a car, etc.), the inconvenience may not be worth the added protection. Unfreezing the reports can also come with a fee and can take up to five business days to process. But as Lieber notes, the fees are actually pretty small (between $5 and $10 per transaction depending on your state, often less for seniors), and so long as you plan accordingly, the few days it takes to unfreeze your accounts shouldn't affect your purchases. A credit report freeze is a smart idea for older Americans in particular. Seniors are especially vulnerable to ID theft and scams, and have a harder time recovering financially than younger victims. Given the increasing rates of credit card theft among national retailers, Lieber argues that the advantages of freezing credit reports vastly outweigh the minor inconveniences: One important thing to note, says Alderman: While security freezes can block the creation of new credit accounts, they can't prevent an identity thief from making charges to existing accounts, so be sure to continue monitoring all bank, credit card, and insurance statements for fraudulent transactions. FREE AppDownload
It's every business traveler's nightmare: Flying into town for an important meeting and finding that your suit is wrinkled beyond repair. One easy way to avoid creases is to wear your suit jacket on the plane instead of cramming it in your suitcase, said Eli Chess, managing partner at custom menswear maker Alabaster &amp; Chess But if you dread the thought of wearing business attire for any longer than you have to, there are also a few tricks to minimizing wrinkles, even if you're packing in a carry-on suitcase. Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis Follow BI Video: On Facebook
U.S. markets are nicely in the green. The Dow is up 220 points, or 1.3%. The S&amp;P 500 is up 22 points, or 1.2%. The Nasdaq is up 48 points, or 1.1%. At one point, the Dow was up by as much as 199 points, putting it back above 16,000. Fed Chair Janet Yellen just finished testifying before the House Financial Services Committee. The bottom line according to TD Securities' Millan Mulraine: "Yellen hawkish on tapering, dovish on policy rate." "Let me emphasize that I expect a great deal of continuity in the FOMC's approach to monetary policy," she said in her prepared remarks. "If incoming information broadly supports the Committee's expectation of ongoing improvement in labor market conditions and inflation moving back toward its longer-run objective, the Committee will likely reduce the pace of asset purchases in further measured steps at future meetings." So, the tapering of quantitative easing looks like it'll continue. But as we all know, tapering is not tightening. The promise of loose monetary policy for a long time was quite explicit. "[I]t likely will be appropriate to maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate well past the time that the unemployment rate declines below 6-1/2 percent, especially if projected inflation continues to run below the 2 percent goal," she said. "Net net, she said she expects a great deal of continuity in the Fed’s approach to policy," joked Chris Rupkey, an economist for Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi. "That means Bernanke has not left the building." Yellen acknowledged that the labor market continues to stink. "The recovery in the labor market is far from complete," she said. "The unemployment rate is still well above levels that Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) participants estimate is consistent with maximum sustainable employment. Those out of a job for more than six months continue to make up an unusually large fraction of the unemployed, and the number of people who are working part time but would prefer a full-time job remains very high. These observations underscore the importance of considering more than the unemployment rate when evaluating the condition of the U.S. labor market." For complete coverage of Yellen's testimony, head to BusinessInsider.com. FREE AppDownload
Rackspace shares tanked on Tuesday as investors reeled from the surprise news that CEO Lanham Napier is retiring, effective immediately. Shares have plummeted about 18% so far, to around $33. Rackspace's co-founder and it's original CEO, Graham Weston, is taking the CEO job again for now while the company conducts a search. Meanwhile Taylor Rhodes was promoted to president. He was formerly leading the sales and financial teams. Napier joined Rackspace in 2006 and under him it grew from $1.5 million in revenue to $1.5 billion in 2013. He'll be sticking around to help as needed. Rackspace has agreed to pay him $140,000 for three months of consulting, from February though May, it said. The company hasn't revealed other details of his final compensation package but by today's standards, he certainly wasn't overpaid. He earned a $400,000 salary in 2012, and, with stock, a total package of $2.5 million. That was about half the package paid to him in 2011 when he earned $4.2 million. For now, he indicated he was going to work with startups but he also signed a one-year non-compete, so we'll see where he surfaces after that expires. Napier announced the news on the heels of its fourth quarter results, which met analysts expectations but showed a scary softness in the area where Rackspace really needs to grow: cloud computing. For the fourth quarter, Rackspace's net income dropped to $20.8 million and 14 cents per share, compared to $29.9 million and 21 cents per share for the year-ago quarter. That met analysts expectation of 14 cents a share. Revenue was up 15.6 percent to $408.1 million, and that was a beat. Analysts were looking for $404.6 million. For the 2013 year, net income was down to $86.7 million, or 61 cents a share, compared to $105.4 million or 75 cents a share in 2012. 2013 revenue was up to $1.53 billion from $1.3 billion. Rackspace did grow its public cloud computing revenue, where it goes head-to-head with Amazon: $116.8 million in 2013, compared to $87.3 million in 2012. But it was soft on guidance for 2014, saying it expected between $1.77 billion to $1.8 billion. That low end fell below analysts' estimate of $1.79 billion. Rackspace's biggest problem is how it will fend off a growing number of tech giant companies competing for cloud computing customers. IBM has doubled down on its attack. Google and Microsoft are doing well. And companies like HP, Oracle, VMware are ramping up their clouds, too. FREE AppDownload
MarketWatch/Mark HulbertThe 1929 chart is making the rounds again. You've probably seen this chart, which compares the market's gains over the last year to those in 1929, leading up to the crash. Noted market-timer Tom DeMark has been talking about it. So too, apparently, has Doug Kass, according to Mark Hulbert, a columnist at MarketWatch. "In an email earlier this week, Kass wrote of the parallels with 1928-29: 'While investment history doesn’t necessarily repeat itself, it does rhyme'," says Hulbert. "And, based on a number of indicators rather than just this chart drawing the 1928-29 parallel, he believes that 'the correction might have just started.'" Let's take another look at this. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz (data from St. Louis Fed) We explained the flawed logic behind this comparison back in November, the first time the chart made the rounds. If you adjust the chart to show how far the market advanced in each case in percentage terms, it looks much less scary. What is in stake for the S&amp;P 500 in the unlikely event that it does end up following the 1929 pattern? A 24% decline from the January 15, 2014 peak — about half the size of 1929's initial 44% crash. FREE AppDownload
How does one measure a hedge fund manager and determine his (it’s almost always his) place in the pantheon relative to his peers? I like the idea of picking the very best of all time based on how much they’ve earned in profits, on an absolute basis. This metric would preclude younger fund managers who haven’t had the chance to get there yet – but shouldn’t it? We’re talking about the G.O.A.T. fund managers, there should be a longevity requirement to make the list, no? James Mackintosh informs us that George Soros’s legendary Quantum Fund has just taken the top spot away from Ray Dalio’s Bridgewater over the last year. George Soros added another $5.5 billion in profits during 2013 while Dalio somehow managed to run in place, missing the entire rally in global equity markets. Soros has done this again and again in so many different market environments and economic epochs that it’s bordering on witchcraft at this point. As one commenter opined, “Soros sees the future playing out in his own head.” As another remarked, “he’s a freak of nature.” Here’s the Top 10 hedge fund managers of all time chart from Mackintosh’s piece at the FT, in which he reminds us that 43% of all the investors in 7000 hedge funds were made by just the top twenty hedge funds. Quite an industry…    Source: George Soros picks up $5.5bn as Quantum Endowment fund soars (Financial Times)  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlo AllegriAndreas Antonopolous is chief security officer at Blockchain.info, a popular Bitcoin wallet service, and he tells CoinDesk that numerous Bitcoin exchanges are experiencing a "massive and concerted" denial of service attack right now. This is a type of attack on one's digital real estate in which nefarious hackers bombard servers with junk requests over and over until they become useless. It's akin to filling a glass of water until it overflows. In Antonopolous' words: "As [Bitcoin] transactions are being created, malformed/parallel transactions are also being created so as to create a fog of confusion over the entire network, which then affects almost every single implementation out there." In other (simpler) words: this attack may cause Bitcoin to behave weirdly. He added that no money has actually been lost, as exchanges halt withdrawals as needed in order to keep everything synchronized. One exchange affected by the attack, Bitstamp, sent an email to its customers to that effect. Antonopolous predicts things will be operating normally in between one and three days. The attacks come on the heels of popular Bitcoin exchange Mt. Gox having to halt a number of its exchanges as customers withdraw their money and even go so far as to protest outside the company's offices in Japan. Bitcoin's price has taken a big dip since. Bitcoin is currently sitting at ~$670. FREE AppDownload
AP If there was any doubt after the government shutdown and last protracted battle over the debt ceiling, this cave from Republicans should make it clear: The debt ceiling is no longer a legitimate political weapon. House Speaker John Boehner will bring a "clean" debt-ceiling increase to the floor on Tuesday night. For Republicans, it completes an epic swing in positions from 2011, when they first made the debt-ceiling increase a major vehicle to try to force spending cuts from President Barack Obama and Democrats. Consider the swing: In 2011, Boehner established the rule in his namesake — "the Boehner rule," which required a dollar in cuts for every dollar raised in the debt ceiling. In 2013, the Boehner rule is dead. And in the end, even before Republican leaders conceded and said they would allow a "clean" hike to come to the floor, Republicans were talking about spending increases that would be attached with the bill. It got to the point last week, when House leaders were considering a method called "pension smoothing" as a "pay-for" on debt-ceiling-related provisions, that some Democrats were left baffled. Because, as a Senate Democratic aide explained, every Senate Democrat had voted for the method as a "pay-for" on an extension of unemployment insurance the previous day. "Every single Senate Democrat voted for pension smoothing yesterday as a pay-for on UI. I don’t know how Boehner is pitching this to his caucus — if we need to participate in the kabuki that they’re 'really getting one over on us' with something we’re actually fine with in order to avoid a worldwide financial calamity, then so be it," the aide said. The dismantling of the debt ceiling as a weapon goes back to the fiscal cliff fight of late 2012, when Obama said that he wouldn't negotiate again with the full faith and credit of the U.S. on the table. He would not normalize that negotiation. That became the Democratic line, and they stuck to it. They have been remarkably unified in their stance, and it has largely worked in diffusing the threat. Last January, House Republicans attached a "No Budget, No Pay" provision to a debt-limit suspension. In October, when Republicans agreed to reopen the government and suspend the debt ceiling again, there were no strings attached. Democrats knew that, even though Republicans didn't want a fight over the debt ceiling this time, they had backed themselves into a corner. Sen. Patty Murray (D-Wash.), the chair of the Senate Budget Committee, time after time called Republicans' bluff on the issue. Mark Wilson/Getty Images"As you all know, they have tried this before, and the bottom line is the story always ends with a debt-ceiling increase," Murray wrote in a late January memo to colleagues. Democrats stuck to their position, while Republicans spent the better chunk of a month deciding what to do. When they finally did decide, it underscored how debt-ceiling brinksmanship is no longer a winning issue for the splintered caucus. Republicans couldn't even unify around two legislative priorities — approval of the Keystone XL Pipeline or repeal of a provision of the Affordable Care Act — because too many members of the caucus oppose a debt-ceiling increase on principle. They eventually settled on a restoration of military pension benefits as an add-on to the debt-ceiling increase. But that couldn't garner enough support, either, because conservatives realized that the vehicle they used to enact $1.2 trillion in cuts just 2.5 years ago was now being used to advance spending increases. As Rep. Chris Van Hollen (D-Md.), the ranking member of the House Budget Committee, told Business Insider late last month: "That's the risk of painting yourself in a corner with no exit strategy." FREE AppDownload
Chinese policymakers are aware that economic growth fueled by credit is unsustainable. To remedy that, they are making efforts to deflate the credit bubble.  This is expected to cause the world's second largest economy to slow modestly in what's been dubbed the soft-landing scenario. In 2013, China grew 7.7%. But "government efforts to engineer a deleveraging could lead to a hard landing in China, if the policy response is misjudged," writes Societe Generale's Wei Yao.  In this scenario, year-over-year growth could collapse to just 2% and global growth could be cut by up to 1.5% in the year after the hard landing. Last year, it was believed that inadequate government investment from Beijing or a sharp property market correction prompted by tight policies could trigger a crisis. Now, Yao expects the crisis could be triggered by tighter liquidity conditions, the crackdown on shadow banking, and more restrictions on local government borrowing. Here's how the crisis will unfold according to Yao: Two other events could however trigger a hard landing in China. First, the experience of 2008 showed that China is vulnerable to trade shocks. Exports contracted sharply on the back of the Lehman crisis, resulting in the loss of nearly 50 million migrant worker jobs in the two quarters after it took place. Second, and more likely, a hard landing could be triggered if well-intended deleveraging gets out of control. Officials clearly want to reduce leverage; the first sign of this was a severe liquidity squeeze in June 2013, partly engineered by policymakers. Rates have dropped since last summer, but liquidity remains tighter than in H1 2013, and credit growth has steadily decelerated, particularly in the shadow banking system. We expect further policy changes to reduce leverage. In particular, we think the banking regulator will tighten regulations further on shadow bank activities, including wealth management products (WMPs) and interbank transactions done by smaller banks to hide corporate loans. Chinese debt markets have been underpinned by the belief that the central government has the resources, the control and the willingness to stand behind all the debt extended by both the formal and the shadow banking system. Although there have been concerns about corporate bonds, trust products and bank WMPs, there have been no defaults, and investors have always been made whole. To prove that it is serious about deleveraging, however, the central government will have to allow for defaults. Even in our central scenario, we expect some financial products to default for the first time in 2014. Here it is in diagram form. Societe Generale FREE AppDownload
Photo courtesy of Mark AxelowitzMark Axelowitz wearing a 1920s-style suit on the set of "Boardwalk Empire."You may have seen Mark Axelowitz—a managing director at UBS Private Wealth Management—on television before.  We don't mean on CNBC or Bloomberg TV either, even though he's appeared on both financial networks. The 53-year-old Wall Street financial advisor has played roles on hit television shows "Law &amp; Order," "Blue Bloods," and "Boardwalk Empire." He was also in "The Three Stooges" movie (2012). It's a hobby that he accidentally fell into while in his 40s. In 2004, at an event benefiting the Boys &amp; Girls Harbor, an education and performing arts non-profit supported by many in the finance industry, "Law &amp; Order" executive producer Dick Wolf donated a speaking role on the popular television show as an auction item.  Photo courtesy Mark AxelowtizMark Axelowtiz's headshot. That evening, Axelowitz engaged in a bidding war against actor Chevy Chase for the coveted auction item. In the end, the Wall Street financial advisor won the role for $10,000.  For the part, Axelowitz got to play a jury foreman in an episode called "Fixed" (Season 15, episode 11).  He went to Chelsea Piers in Lower Manhattan for a weekend of filming. It was his first time being exposed to the world of television and he was pumped. He got to get his makeup done for the first time, and excitedly told the other actors how he had 19 words to recite.   People on set thought that was funny because "real" actors don't memorize how many words they have. The financial advisor, who is used to giving presentations and speaking publicly because of his job, thought he would cruise through his part. "Because I only had 19 words I did not rehearse my lines much at all before I got onto the set. Because I did public speaking over the years, I did not think I would get nervous," he told Business Insider. He admitted that he was "dead wrong" on that one. When it was time for him to deliver his lines, he stuttered.  "It was a whole different ball game. When you are on set and all the lights, and all the cameras and all of the celebrities are looking at  you, in my case, I got nervous, which is why we had to do a number of takes because I stumbled on one particular word."   Even to this day, he still remembers those 19 words. It was the word "degree" that he couldn't spit out. Judge: "Have you reached a verdict?" Jury Foreman (Axelowitz): "Yes, we have your honor." Judge: "How say you?" Jury Foreman (Axelowitz): "On the charge of murder in the second degree, we the jury find the defendant not guilty." When Axelowitz is on the set of a show, he doesn't advertise that he's a Wall Streeter. Most folks on set assume that he's a working actor.   "I'm not doing it for the money," he explained.  "I do not golf. I do not play tennis. My philanthropic work and my acting are my passions and my hobbies." When he's compensated for acting, he donates it back to charity. For example, for "Law &amp; Order" he would receive checks for $2,000 making a total of $10,000.  All of that money went back to the Boys &amp; Girls Harbor. Other charities have benefited from Axelowitz's hobby as well.  He's on the board of the Boys &amp; Girls Harbor and co-hosts an annual investment conference alongside hedge fund manager Bill Ackman.  He's also been active with popular Wall Street charity the Robin Hood Foundation since 1992. He does giving outside of those as well. Photo courtesy of Mark AxelowitzAxelowitz taking directions while shooting a scene for "The Three Stooges." While on set, he found a common interest with people through his involvement in philanthropy. "What was interesting on the set of Law &amp; Order as a rookie that I was, you don't talk to the stars. Somehow, Sam Waterson and I ended up speaking and I ended up helping him do work on set in his dressing room putting together mailings for this Lutheran Church fundraiser helping him seal envelopes."  Also, on the set, he met a director, Alison Thompson, who had a strong interest in volunteer work. After the 9/11 terrorist attacks Thompson spent months volunteering at Ground Zero. Axelowitz and his family helped support her volunteer efforts in Sri Lanka following the tsunami and in Haiti following the earthquake.   Since Law &amp; Order, he's been on "Blue Bloods" (crime scene detective) and HBO's "Boardwalk Empire" (court reporter). He also played the doctor in "The Three Stooges" movie.  He's now member of the Screen Actors Guild (SAG) thanks to the help of Alison Thompson. He's also been working with acting coaches Gary Swanson, who was a student of legendary acting teacher Lee Strasberg, and Lola Cohen, who teaches at the Lee Strasberg Theatre and Film Institute.    Right now, Axelowitz is in the process of producing a short film with a few of his Hollywood contacts. It's a ten-minute film that has a socially conscious message about the ill-effects of soda on children, he explained. The name of the short is "Can't Beat The Real Thing"— meaning you can't beat natural drinks.  Axelowitz certainly wants to be remembered for his acting in addition to his other roles in life.    "I define myself first as a father of three, a husband of twenty-five years. And then a philanthropist. You don't have to be a billionaire to be a philanthropist ... as long as you give away some of your resources... most importantly your time and your talent.  Third, what I do for my day job as a financial advisor of 27 years. And fourth, as an actor."   "I believe life is very short. It's not a dress rehearsal. I want to try as many things as possible."   Now check out some photos of Axelowitz below:  Photo courtesy of Mark Axelowitz Photo courtesy of Mark Axelowitz  Photo courtesy of Mark Axelowitz Photo courtesy of Mark Axelowitz Photo courtesy of Mark Axelowitz Photo courtesy of Mark Axelowitz Photo courtesy of Mark Axelowitz FREE AppDownload
YouTubeSodastream spokesperson Scarlett JohanssonSodaStream shares are 7% today. They're now up 19% since February 5, when Coca-Cola announced that it was taking a 10% stake in Green Mountain Coffee Roasters. At the time shares tanked in after-hours trading. The strategic partnership would allowed them to "empower consumers with an innovative, convenient way to freshly prepare their favorite cold beverages at the push of a button." It was initially believed that this would hurt SodaStream, which makes home carbonation products. Since then, there has been some chatter about whether PepsiCo will buy SodaStream. Yesterday, SodaStream annouced that it partnered with Skinnygirl to make a new string of flavors just for SodaStream. This is expected to be available in the second half of 2014. Year-to-date however SodaStream shares are down nearly 13%. Sodastream shares took a hit in January after the company announced disappoiting year-end figures. Here's a trajectory of SodaStream's share prices since the announcement: Google Finance FREE AppDownload
en.wikipedia.orgLONDON (Reuters) - Goldman Sachs and Deutsche Bank are quietly trying to get out of a business few people know they are even in: trading supplies of raw uranium known as yellowcake. In the last four years, the banks have amassed low-grade stockpiles of the nuclear fuel ingredient larger than those held by Iran, and enough to run China's nuclear plants for a year. Goldman's uranium business can trace its roots back to an apartheid-era South African trading conglomerate that sold Iran its only known source of foreign yellowcake 35 years ago. To this day, that uranium delivery underpins Iran's disputed enrichment program, which western powers fear is aimed at developing atomic weapons, although Iran denies that. Now, under mounting political scrutiny of Wall Street's role in physical commodities trading, and following a collapse in demand after the Fukushima disaster, both firms have put their uranium trading desks up for sale. But other banks are already lining up to take their place. The history of Wall Street in uranium markets illustrates just how far banks moved into physical commodities trading during the natural resources boom of the last ten years. Through its nuclear trading desk, known as NUFCOR International Limited, Goldman has a deal to market the vast majority of South Africa's uranium production from one of the country's largest miners. While people familiar with the business say Goldman has only sold uranium to nuclear power plants and other traders since buying NUFCOR four years ago, some have questioned whether banks should be dealing in such a politically sensitive commodity. Though the global trade in uranium is monitored by governments, intelligence agencies, and the International Atomic Energy Agency, no single authority can trace every deal. The details of how Iran received yellowcake from NUFCOR were uncovered for the first time by Professor Gabrielle Hecht of the University of Michigan, while she did archival research at the company's old headquarters near Johannesburg. "Yellowcake can be bought and sold without any significant international controls," Hecht told Reuters. "The nuclear industry has been campaigning for decades to banalise uranium and make it appear like just any other commodity, but it should be subject to much stronger oversight." Filings with UK authorities and nuclear industry sources say the two banks' combined stockpiles of uranium are valued at more than $400 million, or around 5,000 metric tonnes (5511 tons) of yellowcake. That would be enough to fuel 20 standard nuclear power plants for a year, or, uranium experts say, to build 200 nuclear bombs. Both Goldman Sachs and Deutsche Bank declined to comment on questions about their uranium trading businesses. Australian bank Macquarie, which industry sources say has been talking to Goldman about buying NUFCOR, denied last month that a deal for the business has already been done. WALL STREET GOES NUCLEAR Goldman and Deutsche entered the uranium market in 2009, when tightening supplies threatened to send prices soaring. They would grow to handle almost a third of all uranium trades in the spot market, according to industry sources. They were not the first financial traders to be attracted to uranium. A number of specialist hedge funds started to buy and hold yellowcake in the middle of the last decade, in belief the world was on the cusp of a so-called 'nuclear renaissance'. They thought demand for nuclear power would soar as countries tried to curb greenhouse emissions. In 2007, the price of uranium surged to nearly $140 a pound from under $20 a pound just five years earlier. Prices spiked again in 2010 from just over $40 a pound to near $65 a pound. Some uranium consumers blamed funds and banks for hoarding the fuel and helping to push up the price, said Jonathan Hinze, Senior Vice President at The Ux Consulting Company, which provides pricing and advisory services to the nuclear industry. "But it's clear that while they definitely added fuel to the fire, the fundamental reasons of growing demand and limited supply growth was the big catalyst behind the move." Trading firms like Deutsche and Goldman buy and hold uranium in secure warehouses licensed and designed to hold the fuel. The raw uranium is processed into a gas called uranium hexafluoride before being enriched into fuel rods. Market participants say yellowcake trading is not to be feared. They say traders take no risk in transporting the radioactive material, because they only take title to the yellowcake once it is in secure storage facilities. Banks including JPMorgan and Morgan Stanley have announced plans to sell all or part of their physical trading operations in the last six months, while the Federal Reserve has faced pressure in Washington to speed up efforts to restrict Wall Street's role in commodities trading. Deutsche said in December it was largely exiting commodities trading. Goldman, however, has said it remains committed to its J.Aron &amp; Company commodity business, where many of its top executives started their careers, including CEO Lloyd Blankfein. It is not clear exactly why Goldman has decided to get out of trading uranium. Some regulatory experts say that while third-party traders generally only help facilitate the flow of uranium between miners and utilities, there are concerns the material could end up with less scrupulous buyers. IRAN'S ONE-TIME URANIUM SUPPLIER Goldman's largest role in the global trade in uranium comes through a deal with AngloGold Ashanti, which produces almost all of the yellowcake in South Africa. In 2009 Goldman acquired its uranium trading arm, called NUFCOR International Ltd, as part of a wider deal to buy the London-based trading desk of Constellation Energy. NUFCOR International's roots stretch back to 1968, when a group of private South African gold companies established the Nuclear Fuels Corporation of South Africa (NUFCOR SA) to market most of the country's uranium, which was produced as a byproduct of their gold mining. In the 1970s, the Shah of Iran arranged a deal with NUFCOR to supply his country with low-grade uranium for his planned nuclear energy program. Professor Hecht found in NUFCOR's archives the exact details of the sale for the first time. In 1975, NUFCOR signed an agreement to supply Iran with 2,400 metric tonnes of yellowcake, Hecht says. Over the following years, NUFCOR shipped 775 metric tonnes of the fuel to Iran, before the Islamic Revolution in 1979 put the deal on hold. NUFCOR discussed a second deal with Iran in 1984 to supply 1,485 metric tonnes of yellowcake, but the deal was eventually blocked by the apartheid-era South African government in 1986. Nine years later - because the South African government wanted to settle the affair - the uranium that had not been delivered to Iran was sold to a New York trading company and a German electricity firm and the money was returned to Tehran. Iran revealed its purchase of yellowcake to the International Atomic Energy Agency in the 1990s. While the IAEA has said Iran's yellowcake stockpile came from South Africa, it has never publicly revealed the company behind the sale. "This is the main, or possibly the only, material being used in Iran's enrichment plants," the World Nuclear Association says of the yellowcake delivered from South Africa to Iran. Olli Heinonen, a former U.N. nuclear inspector who is now a Senior Fellow at Harvard University, said in an email Iran may have obtained additional yellowcake from other, unknown sources. It has also mined a small amount of raw uranium. A spokeswoman for Iran's Atomic Energy Organisation didn't comment on specific questions about the NUFCOR sales, but said it is "closely cooperating" with the IAEA. Under a deal with Tehran signed in November, the IAEA is stepping up an investigation into whether Iran has sought nuclear weapons. Iran says its nuclear program is aimed only at developing peaceful power supplies. NUFCOR became wholly-owned by AngloGold Ashanti and FirstRand Bank in 1998, before being sold ten years later to Constellation Energy in the United States. A year later, it was bought by Goldman. Between 2010 and 2012, AngloGold Ashanti supplied Goldman's NUFCOR business with an average of almost 600 metric tonnes a year of the raw fuel. According to filings with the UK's Companies House, at the end of 2012 NUFCOR held more than $232 million of low-grade uranium, up from $160 million at the end of 2011. Based on prices at the time NUFCOR held almost 2,500 metric tonnes of the raw fuel. The level has since risen, according to industry sources. An AngloGold Ashanti spokesman declined to comment on what the sale of the desk might mean for the supply agreement. GERMANY'S URANIUM BANK Deutsche's business was established by a former Lehman Brothers trader, Roy Adams, who had run the uranium trading business at the ill-fated U.S. bank. While Adams left Deutsche Bank around 2011, the firm continued to market uranium from offices in London and New York. Reuters was not able to reach Adams for comment. In December, Deutsche Bank started holding preliminary discussions with potential buyers of its uranium business after announcing it was largely exiting commodities trading. The sale will include the bank's trading book, including long-term deals with nuclear power plants, and a stockpile of low-grade uranium worth about $200 million. At current prices that amounts to about 2,600 metric tonnes of yellowcake. (Additional reporting by Fredrik Dahl in Vienna and Parisa Hafezi in Ankara; Editing by Giles Elgood) FREE AppDownload
Prince Alwaleed, Saudi Arabia's self-proclaimed Warren Buffett, has seen his fund, Kingdom Holdings, return 52% since Sept. 5, when it hit a 52-week low. And the prince has told Bloomberg that there's more where that came from. “We have hidden treasures, lots of rich assets that aren’t publicly traded,” Alwaleed, 58, said by phone from Crans-Montana, Switzerland, where he was vacationing with his family. “They are worth more than $11 billion to $12 billion, and the market could value them at more than double that.” His big winners recently have been Twitter, the Fours Seasons, and Chinese e-commerce retailer JD.com Inc. It's the second biggest e-commerce site in China and is considering an IPO. Alwaleed owns 95% of Kingdom Holdings and has said since the company went public in 2008 he hasn't sold a single share. He's chasing Warren Buffett, his idol, but says that despite his recent success he won't be catching up to the Oracle of Omaha any time soon. Alwaleed's openness about his wealth has not quieted the doubters, though. Last year, Alwaleed severed ties with Forbes' Billionaires List, saying that the publication's reporters gave Kingdom Holdings undue, biased scrutiny. That prompted a brutal take down from Forbes reporter Kerry Dolan, who wrote: Of the 1,426 billionaires on our list, not one–not even the vainglorious Donald Trump–goes to greater measure to try to affect his or her ranking. In 2006 when FORBES estimated that the prince was actually worth $7 billion less than he said he was, he called me at home the day after the list was released, sounding nearly in tears. “What do you want?”he pleaded, offering up his private banker in Switzerland. “Tell me what you need. Since then, Alwaleed had been shooting down tales about him and his fund left and right. Most recently Kingdom Holdings put out a press release dispelling the rumor that he owns a diamond-encrusted Mercedes Benz, and charged people $1,000 just to touch it.  The whole rumor was silly really, considering that the car was only worth a couple million. Just a drop in Alwaleed's bucket. FREE AppDownload
One of the best features in Excel is the ability to plug in a formula and then easily drag it into new cells and have it automatically shift to the corresponding cell values. But sometimes this can also be the most annoying feature when you don't actually want the whole formula to shift.  There is actually an easy way to lock in parts of your formula so only the correct parameters change. Produced by Daniel Goodman and Walter Hickey. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Matt BevinMatt BevinMatt Bevin, the Tea Party primary challenger to Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.), is in trouble for having once held reasonable views on the financial crisis. Politico obtained an October 2008 letter signed by Bevin, in his role as president of Veracity Funds, that assessed the then-developing crisis in the financial industry. The letter points out some bright spots in the economy, saying in part: Most of the positive developments have been government led, such as the effective nationalization of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the passage of the $700 billion TARP (don’t call it a bailout) and the Federal Reserve’s intention to invest in commercial paper. These moves should help to stabilize asset prices and help to ease liquidity constraints in the financial system... Some of the positive developments include the numerous programs from stimulus to the various Treasury acronyms (TARP, TALF, PPIP) to the Fed’s aggressive balance sheet growth. To what degree is open to some debate, but our government has taken the challenge head on and has responded like no other country. Of course, all that is true: The American financial system was collapsing in late 2008, and the U.S. government prevented a much deeper crisis by bailing out financial institutions and nationalizing Fannie and Freddie. Fiscal stimulus also reduced the severity of the recession — and the U.S. government did much better in responding to the crisis than European ones. Unfortunately, a history of accurate views about economic policy is a major barrier to a successful Tea Party candidacy. As such, Bevin is now reduced to insisting he never believed what was in the letter he signed. Bevin always thought TARP was a bad idea; the letter reflects the views of Daniel Bandi, an investment manager who worked under him. But that just raises another question: Why did Bevin employ someone with such wrongheaded views on the economy to manage his clients' money? Is Bevin saying he was bad at being a hedge fund executive? FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mary F. CalvertFederal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen testifies before a House Financial Services Committee hearing on "Monetary Policy and the State of the Economy." at the Rayburn House Office Building in Washington, February 11, 2014.Janet Yellen is delivering her first Congressional testimony as chairman of the Federal Reserve this morning. The biggest debate in monetary policy right now is the amount of slack in the U.S. labor market and the implications for the Fed's accommodative stance. Those who believe there is significant slack despite recent rapid declines in the unemployment rate point to labor force participation, which has been falling in tandem. Their theory is that discouraged workers who have left the labor force will re-enter when job prospects improve, driving the unemployment rate up again. In other words, they view the drop in labor force participation as largely cyclical and not structural. During her testimony, Yellen attributed the decline in labor force participation to both structural and cyclical factors. She cautioned that despite the drop in the unemployment rate, other measures — such as long-term unemployment and part-time workers who want full-time jobs — point to significant slack. UBS economists Drew Matus and Kevin Cummins call that an "odd view of labor market slack" in a note this morning, writing (with our added emphasis on the key sentence): As expected, she downplayed the progress of the unemployment rate and the importance of the unemployment rate itself arguing that the long-term unemployed and the number of workers who are part time but who want full time are also important to gauging the amount of slack in labor markets. We do not view the long-term unemployed as necessarily "ready for work" and therefore believe that their ability to restrain wage pressures is limited. In other words, the unusually high number of long-term unemployed suggests that the natural rate of unemployment has increased. Indeed, when we have tested various unemployment rates' ability to predict inflation we found that the standard unemployment rate outperforms all other broader measures reported by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Although we disagree with Yellen regarding the long-term unemployed, our research does suggest that, perhaps unsurprisingly, the number of part-timers does have an impact on restraining inflation. Interestingly, the Fed staff have finally come around to our way of thinking on the reasons for the decline in the participation rate—that it is largely driven by retirement of baby boomers. This also suggests that the Fed is moving toward a lower threshold level for payroll growth – the payrolls growth required to pull the unemployment rate lower. (We estimate that payroll growth of 100,000 per month or a bit lower is sufficient to hold the unemployment rate steady.) In short, Matus and Cummins believe even the factors Yellen cites as evidence of cyclical slack in the labor market are themselves largely structural. That is not to say that high long-term unemployment and part-time employment are not serious issues that need to be addressed. However, monetary policy may no longer be the best instrument with which to address them. The implication is that the Fed may be focusing too much on alternative measures, which could cloud the path of monetary policy going forward, delaying the Fed's exit from an era of extraordinary stimulus for the wrong reasons. FREE AppDownload
Photo courtesy Tsai Capital Hedge fund manager Christopher Tsai got hooked on investing when he was only 11 years old. "I purchased five shares of a re-insurance company, which I really did not know much about it, but it looked good to me at age 11. I used gardening money. Ever since, the $25 profit on that trade, I was hooked." Tsai, who is now 39, runs long/short equity hedge fund Tsai Capital. Today, he announced the launch of Tsai Ventures— a seed and early stage venture capital fund that will use Tsai Capital's proprietary capital to invest in companies.  He's partnered with Justin Soffer, who has had a long career in internet media.  He's been running Tsai Capital since he was 22 years old. Perhaps the biggest reason he got started at such a young age is that he grew up in a financial household. Tsai's late father Gerald Tsai was a prominent Wall Street figure who worked for mutual fund behemoth Fidelity.  "I grew up surrounded by his friends and just speaking with him everyday about what's going on in the world, politically and economically," Tsai told Business Insider.     During his teenage years, he spent his summers working for his father at his office at 230 Park Avenue office analyzing companies.  At age 16, Tsai took a course at New York Institute of Finance on securities analysis. He also started to manage money informally at that time for certain friends and business owners he met growing up in Connecticut.  His first client was a Chinese restaurateur who entrusted pretty much all of his liquid savings to him, Tsai recalled. "I think the number was about $400,000 at the time. I was roughly 16 years-old and I fortunately did quite well for him and he referred me to some other of his friends and eventually I used his capital as well as a small amount of family capital to launch Tsai Capital in 1997 at age 22."  Tsai's father isn't the only prominent financial figure in the family.  He recently learned that his grandmother, Ruth Tsai, was the only woman on the floor of the Shanghai Stock Exchange during World War II trading stocks, gold and other commodities.   "She was an incredible lady and quite influential to my father in his investment philosophy."   In fact, philosophy has played an integral role in Tsai's investment strategy.  He's formed his philosophy from lessons his father taught him, philosophers he's studied as an undergrad philosophy major at Middlebury, and pieces of investment literature he's read along the way.    One philosophical lesson he learned from his father happened on a fishing outing on his 16-foot Boston Whaler. "I cast the rod into the wind once. He said to me, 'You can't do that. You have to have the wind behind you just like in investing. You want to position yourself with the wind at your back.'"  He said at the time he didn't quite understand what his father meant. However, it's a lesson that has stuck with him through the years.  "At the heart of that, is the philosophy that you don't want to fight the Fed, basically. That philosophy is integral to how we manage our long/short fund."  He explained that while many managers have been short in the past few years, his fund's view is that the Fed is printing money so "the wind is at our back."  In other words, right now it's a bull market so they don't have any shorts or significant shorts on.   "When the world changes, and I think we are going to roll over, we will execute quite heavily on the short side," he explained.   As for investing literature, he's been influenced by Benjamin Graham's "The Intelligent Investor." Within that text, the chapters that stood out the most are chapters 8 and 20. Chapter 8 deals with market fluctuations and the need for an investor to control his or her emotions.  Chapter 20 is about margin of safety, or buying things at a discount to minimize downside risk and maximize returns. The other book that's influenced him is Phillip Fisher's "Common Stocks And Uncommon Profits." Basically, the philosophy in that book is that if the work has been properly done up front the time to sell a stock is almost never, Tsai explained.  So Tsai's strategy is a hybrid of both Bill Graham and Phil Fisher's thinking in the long only space. It means that Tsai Capital is looking for cheap companies with a lot of upside to hold on to for the long haul. "Unlike many managers we are looking for companies that are high quality and have exceptional long term growth prospects. Our ideal holding time is indefinitely. In actuality that's not feasible because fundamentals and conditions change. We go in with the mindset that we want to hold the investment indefinitely." As for his new venture capital fund, he's also using his long-term philosophy to pick his investments. He sees these companies as partners. They've already started to invest through the venture capital fund.  Tsai told us that the first one is in a company called CrowdTangle, which is owned by holding company Open Page Labs. It's a service that allows companies and individuals to see what's trending on Facebook in real-time.   As for how much money Tsai Ventures will be putting into its new investments, Tsai didn't specify.  He did say that they will be targeting investments between $100,000 and $500,000.  "We are going to be taking long term positions in companies that we want to nurture and help  entrepreneurs expand their horizons, their relationships and create a success for both parties. We consider investing in entrepreneurs as a real partnership." That's how you turn one client into a book. Tsai learned that in his teens. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsChinese economic growth slowed to the lowest level since 1999 last year, expanding 7.7%. And concerns about China's slowdown are mounting again. "China’s ambitious deleveraging plans increase the risk of a hard landing, which could take year-on-year growth to 2%," according to Societe Generale's Patrick Legland. A hard landing scenario would see full-year, real GDP growth fall below 5%. While their central scenario is for 6.9% growth, SocGen thinks at the peak of a crisis "the year-on-year growth rate would dip to 2% and the economy would contract for two quarters." Global implications With imports equivalent to 30% of China's GDP, the country is natural a major source of global demand. Asia would be hardest hit because exports to China as a percent of GDP are largest in Asia, SocGen's Wei Yao writes. As for the rest of the world the impact would be in the blow to investment in China. "We expect investment – which now makes up half of Chinese GDP – to fall more than consumption if China does suffer a hard landing," writes Yao. "And investment has significantly higher import content than consumption, most notably through commodities and machine tools." Of course, we've already seen how the emerging market rout worsened on concerns of a Chinese economic slowdown and trust defaults.  SocGen's Benoit Anne writes that a hardlanding would deal a "severe shock to the appetite for global emerging market assets." "If the deleveraging in China goes too far and leads to a hard landing, as in the scenario outlined by our economists above, this would seriously hit the appetite for risky global emerging market (GEM) assets. Weaker growth in China would sap global growth expectations, undermining GEM assets which are highly leveraged to the global growth outlook. It would however also push EM central banks to ease policy, even in countries where there is no easing bias at present." More from the note: Does the starting point for the global economy matter? Our what-if analysis of a China hard landing draws on a wide body of academic research that analyses various shocks and how these disseminate to the global economy. These analyses often implicitly assume the starting point of an economy in equilibrium and with a well stocked arsenal of policy ammunition. The current situation is very different, however, with large output gaps in many of the world’s major economies, ongoing headwinds from deleveraging and policy arsenals already depleted. Add a China hard landing to the mix, and we expect the result would be a far greater uncertainty shock than had the starting point been a world in overall good health. Uncertainty would cause corporations globally to hold back further on investment and hiring decisions (even those not directly exposed to China). And, feedback loops from financial channels would further amplify the uncertainty shock as risky asset prices collapse. At the global level, we estimate that the combined uncertainty shock in our China hard landing scenario could exceed 1% of global GDP. Here's how the hard landing would impact the rest of the world: Societe Generale FREE AppDownload
Then again, they may be less relevant given the emerging markets crisis that emerged during January. Over the past couple of weeks, we’ve analyzed the magnitude of the problem and concluded that the crisis is likely to be contained to the Fragile Five, and shouldn’t morph into a global contagion. If so, then the solid forward momentum signaled by the latest OECD leading indicators suggests that the global economy should absorb the latest shock relatively well. Let’s review the latest data:  (1) Advanced economies advancing. Most encouraging is that the composite leading indicator for all of the 34 members of the OECD rose to 100.9, the highest level since February 2011. That confirms the upbeat readings of the more volatile JP Morgan Global Composite Output PMI, which remained upbeat during January at 53.9. Over the past year, there have been steady monthly gains in the indexes for the US, Europe, and Japan. The same can be said about all the major economies of Europe and the peripheral ones too. (2) Emerging economies submerging. The OECD also compiles leading indicators for the BRICs. They remained depressed during December, with India falling to a record low.  Today's Morning Briefing: Uptrends. (1) Barring recession, earnings heading to new record highs. (2) Earnings have a history of 7% growth. (3) Spread between earnings yield and bond yield drives buybacks. (4) Earnings growth solid in Q4, but looking weak for Q1. (5) Revenues growth was weak during Q4. (6) Is there enough forward momentum in OECD leading indicators to overcome EM crisis? (7) Focus on overweight-rated S&amp;P 500 Transportation. Ed Yardeni FREE AppDownload
Flickr/IdhrenJob openings came in at under 4.0 million in December, right in line with Wall Street expectations (but a bit below the upwardly revised November print). There were also 4.4 million hires in December and the quit rate came in at 1.7%, little changed from November. JOLTS tracks job openings, hires, layoffs, and quits. And while the report is often the neglected little sibling of the monthly jobs report, newly minted Fed Chair Janet Yellen has cited JOLTS as an important labor market indicator. So market-watchers would be wise to keep an eye on JOLTS during Yellen's term. FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg Janet Yellen's first Congressional testimony as chairman of the Federal Reserve has begun. Prepared remarks were released at 8:30 AM ET. Judging by the market's reaction — Treasuries are taking a hit and the dollar is strengthening — investors were looking for Yellen to find a way to communicate a more "dovish" tone to market participants. Instead, she reiterated that the Fed planned to continue winding down its quantitative easing program, and she shrugged off the effects of recent turmoil in global markets. While her remarks were right in line with previous FOMC communications — she said the FOMC would likely keep short-term interest rates pinned near zero well past the time that the unemployment rate falls below 6.5% — she did not put any increased emphasis on low inflation or labor market slack. "The market has held a fading bid since Friday from short covering and concern Yellen would be dovish," says Tom Tucci, head of U.S. Treasury trading at CIBC World Markets. "She seems balanced and that is taking premium out of the market." The Fed chairman delivers a Monetary Policy Report to Congress — also known as the Humphrey Hawkins testimony — twice a year. Yellen just assumed the chairmanship at the beginning of this month. After Yellen's testimony, a second panel of witnesses — comprised of former Fed vice chairman Don Kohn, Stanford economist John B. Taylor, Cato Institute's Mark Calabria, and American Enterprise Institute's Abby McCloskey — will critique it. Their prepared remarks can be found here. Below is the full text of Yellen's prepared remarks. ------------------------------------------ Chairman Hensarling, Ranking Member Waters and other members of the Committee, I am pleased to present the Federal Reserve's semiannual Monetary Policy Report to the Congress. In my remarks today, I will discuss the current economic situation and outlook before turning to monetary policy. I will conclude with an update on our continuing work on regulatory reform. First, let me acknowledge the important contributions of Chairman Bernanke. His leadership helped make our economy and financial system stronger and ensured that the Federal Reserve is transparent and accountable. I pledge to continue that work. Current Economic Situation and Outlook The economic recovery gained greater traction in the second half of last year. Real gross domestic product (GDP) is currently estimated to have risen at an average annual rate of more than 3-1/2 percent in the third and fourth quarters, up from a 1-3/4 percent pace in the first half. The pickup in economic activity has fueled further progress in the labor market. About 1-1/4 million jobs have been added to payrolls since the previous Monetary Policy Report last July, and 3-1/4 million have been added since August 2012, the month before the Federal Reserve began a new round of asset purchases to add momentum to the recovery. The unemployment rate has fallen nearly a percentage point since the middle of last year and 1-1/2 percentage points since the beginning of the current asset purchase program. Nevertheless, the recovery in the labor market is far from complete. The unemployment rate is still well above levels that Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) participants estimate is consistent with maximum sustainable employment. Those out of a job for more than six months continue to make up an unusually large fraction of the unemployed, and the number of people who are working part time but would prefer a full-time job remains very high. These observations underscore the importance of considering more than the unemployment rate when evaluating the condition of the U.S. labor market. Among the major components of GDP, household and business spending growth stepped up during the second half of last year. Early in 2013, growth in consumer spending was restrained by changes in fiscal policy. As this restraint abated during the second half of the year, household spending accelerated, supported by job gains and by rising home values and equity prices. Similarly, growth in business investment started off slowly last year but then picked up during the second half, reflecting improving sales prospects, greater confidence, and still-favorable financing conditions. In contrast, the recovery in the housing sector slowed in the wake of last year's increase in mortgage rates. Inflation remained low as the economy picked up strength, with both the headline and core personal consumption expenditures, or PCE, price indexes rising only about 1 percent last year, well below the FOMC's 2 percent objective for inflation over the longer run. Some of the recent softness reflects factors that seem likely to prove transitory, including falling prices for crude oil and declines in non-oil import prices. My colleagues on the FOMC and I anticipate that economic activity and employment will expand at a moderate pace this year and next, the unemployment rate will continue to decline toward its longer-run sustainable level, and inflation will move back toward 2 percent over coming years. We have been watching closely the recent volatility in global financial markets. Our sense is that at this stage these developments do not pose a substantial risk to the U.S. economic outlook. We will, of course, continue to monitor the situation. Monetary Policy Turning to monetary policy, let me emphasize that I expect a great deal of continuity in the FOMC's approach to monetary policy. I served on the Committee as we formulated our current policy strategy and I strongly support that strategy, which is designed to fulfill the Federal Reserve's statutory mandate of maximum employment and price stability. Prior to the financial crisis, the FOMC carried out monetary policy by adjusting its target for the federal funds rate. With that rate near zero since late 2008, we have relied on two less-traditional tools--asset purchases and forward guidance--to help the economy move toward maximum employment and price stability. Both tools put downward pressure on longer-term interest rates and support asset prices. In turn, these more accommodative financial conditions support consumer spending, business investment, and housing construction, adding impetus to the recovery. Our current program of asset purchases began in September 2012 amid signs that the recovery was weakening and progress in the labor market had slowed. The Committee said that it would continue the program until there was a substantial improvement in the outlook for the labor market in a context of price stability. In mid-2013, the Committee indicated that if progress toward its objectives continued as expected, a moderation in the monthly pace of purchases would likely become appropriate later in the year. In December, the Committee judged that the cumulative progress toward maximum employment and the improvement in the outlook for labor market conditions warranted a modest reduction in the pace of purchases, from $45 billion to $40 billion per month of longer-term Treasury securities and from $40 billion to $35 billion per month of agency mortgage-backed securities. At its January meeting, the Committee decided to make additional reductions of the same magnitude. If incoming information broadly supports the Committee's expectation of ongoing improvement in labor market conditions and inflation moving back toward its longer-run objective, the Committee will likely reduce the pace of asset purchases in further measured steps at future meetings. That said, purchases are not on a preset course, and the Committee's decisions about their pace will remain contingent on its outlook for the labor market and inflation as well as its assessment of the likely efficacy and costs of such purchases. The Committee has emphasized that a highly accommodative policy will remain appropriate for a considerable time after asset purchases end. In addition, the Committee has said since December 2012 that it expects the current low target range for the federal funds rate to be appropriate at least as long as the unemployment rate remains above 6-1/2 percent, inflation is projected to be no more than a half percentage point above our 2 percent longer-run goal, and longer-term inflation expectations remain well anchored. Crossing one of these thresholds will not automatically prompt an increase in the federal funds rate, but will instead indicate only that it had become appropriate for the Committee to consider whether the broader economic outlook would justify such an increase. In December of last year and again this January, the Committee said that its current expectation--based on its assessment of a broad range of measures of labor market conditions, indicators of inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and readings on financial developments--is that it likely will be appropriate to maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate well past the time that the unemployment rate declines below 6-1/2 percent, especially if projected inflation continues to run below the 2 percent goal. I am committed to achieving both parts of our dual mandate: helping the economy return to full employment and returning inflation to 2 percent while ensuring that it does not run persistently above or below that level. Strengthening the Financial System I will finish with an update on progress on regulatory reforms and supervisory actions to strengthen the financial system. In October, the Federal Reserve Board proposed a rule to strengthen the liquidity positions of large and internationally active financial institutions.1 Together with other federal agencies, the Board also issued a final rule implementing the Volcker rule, which prohibits banking firms from engaging in short-term proprietary trading of certain financial instruments.2 On the supervisory front, the next round of annual capital stress tests of the largest 30 bank holding companies is under way, and we expect to report results in March. Regulatory and supervisory actions, including those that are leading to substantial increases in capital and liquidity in the banking sector, are making our financial system more resilient. Still, important tasks lie ahead. In the near term, we expect to finalize the rules implementing enhanced prudential standards mandated by section 165 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. We also are working to finalize the proposed rule strengthening the leverage ratio standards for U.S.-based, systemically important global banks. We expect to issue proposals for a risk-based capital surcharge for those banks as well as for a long-term debt requirement to help ensure that these organizations can be resolved. In addition, we are working to advance proposals on margins for noncleared derivatives, consistent with a new global framework, and are evaluating possible measures to address financial stability risks associated with short-term wholesale funding. We will continue to monitor for emerging risks, including watching carefully to see if the regulatory reforms work as intended. Since the financial crisis and the depths of the recession, substantial progress has been made in restoring the economy to health and in strengthening the financial system. Still, there is more to do. Too many Americans remain unemployed, inflation remains below our longer-run objective, and the work of making the financial system more robust has not yet been completed. I look forward to working with my colleagues and many others to carry out the important mission you have given the Federal Reserve. Thank you. I would be pleased to take your questions. FREE AppDownload
APHouse Republicans are forgoing a plan to tie a debt-ceiling increase to a restoration of military pension benefits and will instead try to pass a "clean" increase without policy strings attached on Wednesday, a source confirmed to Business Insider. House Republican leaders told the conference in a meeting Tuesday morning. "House Republican leaders told Members this morning that it is clear the paid-for military COLA provision will not attract enough support, so we will be bringing up a ‘clean’ debt limit bill tomorrow," a source in the room told Business Insider. GOP leaders had struggled to get enough support for their latest debt-ceiling plan. It ran into staunch opposition from conservatives, who have for the last few years framed the raising the debt ceiling as a debate over curbing long-term spending. House Speaker John Boehner will bring a "clean" hike to the floor and let it pass with mostly Democratic support. "Boehner made clear the GOP would provide the requisite number of Republican votes for the measure but that Democrats will be expected to carry the vote," the source said. At a press conference Tuesday morning, Boehner said he'd vote for the "clean" hike. But he suggested it might be tough to find 17 other Republicans to vote for the measure. If all Democrats vote for the increase, the legislation would need 18 Republican votes in total to pass the House. "We're going to have to find them. I'll be one of them," Boehner said. Leadership felt that the legislation tied to military pensions gave it the best chance of passing something with a mix of Republican and Democratic votes. But Democrats, while not outwardly dismissing the legislation Monday night, continued to say they preferred a "clean" hike. And conservatives sharply pushed back on the pension measure because it increases spending. Over the past three years, Republicans have framed raising the debt ceiling as a debate over curbing long-term spending. The predictable "clean" solution brings to an end a debate that mostly existed within the Republican conference. House Republicans came out of their annual retreat pushing a strategy with such options as repealing an Affordable Care Act provision or Keystone XL Pipeline approval in exchange for a debt-ceiling hike. Neither of those options, however, gained enough support within the Republican caucus. Republicans' last two options included the possibility of attaching a Medicare "doc fix" and/or the military pension restoration to the debt-ceiling legislation. In the end, Republican leaders determined that they couldn't garner enough support for either of those two options. FREE AppDownload
Justin Sullivan/Getty Images(Reuters) - Sprint Corp (S.N) reported a smaller fourth-quarter loss than expected and a surprise increase in wireless subscribers, sending its shares up 4 percent in early trade. The company, which is 80 percent owned by Japan's SoftBank Corp 9984.T), said it added 58,000 net subscribers in the quarter compared with the average expectation for a loss of 83,500 from six analysts contacted by Reuters. Estimates ranged from a loss of 48,000 subscribers to a loss of 400,000 subscribers. The subscriber growth, which compared with a loss of 360,000 in the third quarter, included growth in connections for tablet computers and smartphones. The No. 3 U.S. mobile provider had been losing customers in recent quarters as it shut down its older Nextel network and other subscribers left due to technical problems related to a massive overhaul of Sprint's remaining network. Sprint said its loss narrowed to $1.04 billion, or 26 cents per share, in the fourth quarter, from $1.32 billion, or 44 cents per share, in the year-ago quarter. The quarterly loss per share was much narrower than the average expectation for a loss of 33 cents per share according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. Revenue rose to $9.14 billion from $9.01 billion. The average analyst estimate was $8.97 billion, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. It forecast 2014 adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) between $6.5 billion and $6.7 billion, and capital spending of about $8 billion. Sprint shares rose to $8 in pre market trade after closing at $7.69 in the regular New York Stock Exchange session. (Reporting by Sinead Carew; Editing by Jeffrey Benkoe and Chizu Nomiyama) FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg, YouTube/Casey ResearchJeff Saut and Richard RussellAs much as we want to act rationally, our investment decisions are unfortunately impacted by our behavioral biases. In other words, our brains are working against us. Veteran market strategists Jeff Saut and Richard Russell note that the biases of wealthy investors differ from the biases of not-so-wealthy investors. And this helps the rich get richer and while the poor get poorer. Specifically, the wealthy have the advantage of not needing more money. Whereas the little guy not only needs it, but he needs it fast. Saut, the chief strategist at Raymond James, recently cited this passage from Russell's recent investment newsletter. First, here's Russell on the wealthy (emphasis added): In the investment world wealthy investors have one major advantage over the little guy, the stock market amateur and the neophyte speculator. The advantage wealthy investors possess is they DON’T NEED THE MARKETS. I can’t begin to tell you what a huge difference that makes, both in one’s mental attitude and in the actual handling of one’s account. The wealthy investor doesn’t need the market because he already has all the income he needs. He has money coming in via bonds, T-bills, money market funds, real estate, and stocks. In other words, the wealthy investor never feels pressured to ‘make money’ in the market. The wealthy investor tends to be an expert on values. When bonds are cheap and bond yields are irresistibly high, he buys bonds. When stocks are on the bargain table and stock yields are attractive, he buys stocks. When real estate is a great value, he buys real estate. When great art or fine jewelry is on the ‘giveaway table,’ he buys them. In other words, the wealthy investor puts his money where the values are. And if there are no outstanding values, the wealthy investor waits. He can afford to wait. He has money coming in daily, weekly, monthly. In other words, he doesn’t need the market. He knows what he is looking for, and he doesn’t mind waiting weeks, months or years (they call it patience). Here's Russell on the not-so-wealthy: What about the little guy? This fellow always feels pressured to ‘make money’, to ‘force the market to do something for him.’ When this fellow isn’t buying stocks at 3% yields, he’s off to Vegas or Atlantic City trying to win at craps or he’s spending ten bucks a week on lottery tickets or he’s ‘investing’ in some crackpot real estate scheme with an outfit that his bowling buddy told him about. And because the little guy is forcing the market to do something for him, he’s a consistent and constant loser. The little guy doesn’t understand values so he always overpays. He loves to gamble, so he always has the odds against him. He doesn’t understand compounding and he doesn’t understand money. He’s the typical American and he’s perpetually in debt. The little guy is in hock and he’s always sweating, sweating to make payments on his house, his refrigerator, his car or his lawnmower. He’s impatient, and he constantly feels pressured. He tells himself he has to make money fast. And he dreams of ‘big bucks’. In the end the little guy wastes his money on the market, he loses his money on gambling, and he dribbles it away on senseless schemes. In brief, this ‘money-nerd’ spends his life running up the down-escalator. Now here’s the ironic part of it. If, from the beginning, the little guy had adopted a strict policy of never spending more than his income, if he had taken that extra income and compounded it in safe, income-producing securities – in due time he’d have money coming in daily, weekly, and monthly – just like the rich guy. Then in due time he’d start acting and thinking like the rich guy. In short, the little guy would become a financial winner instead of a loser. Russell's characterization of the "little guy" may seem unfair. Not all of us are drowning in debt. But dreams of bigger bucks fast seems pretty close to universal. Saut extends Russell's discussion by beautifully articulating the madness of markets and investing: In the world we live in, few look at risk. Most only look at reward. The few who do look at risk (the educated, the street savvy) make their money at the expense of the great unwashed majority who swallow the noise nonsense about getting rich quick. Investing is a get rich slowly process. You have to put your money at risk in the face of uncertainty. Emotions run rampant before the uncertainty of floating, fluctuating, often violent and volatile markets. Constantly discounting prices are fickle and full of surprises. Disorder is usually the norm. Some stuff to remember as you make your next investment decision. FREE AppDownload
Facebook has a lot more to offer than you may think. From 'pirate language' to turning all baby photos into cute kittens, these 7 features could drastically improve your daily Facebook experience. Produced by Justin Gmoser. Follow BI Video: On Facebook 
William Wei, Business Insider You may have heard recently that Business Insider is now bigger than the Wall Street Journal. As we continue to grow, we'd like to do our best to make sure that you, the reader, continue to enjoy your experience on Business Insider. The first step is learning more about you and how you use the site so we can make your time here even better.  Are you reading Business Insider on your smartphone or tablet? Do you consider yourself a go-to person for advice and information? Where do you share and post articles you find interesting? Click here to take the survey. All we need is five minutes of your time.  Thanks in advance for your candid answers. FREE AppDownload
Bitcoin prices plunged about 20% yesterday after MtGox said it would continue to suspend Bitcoin withdrawals as it sorted out a technical issue — and that it was blaming a problem in the Bitcoin protocol itself for the glitch. The backlash from the Bitcoin community was swift: The issue highlighted by MtGox has been well known for years, they said, and that it was most likely they're inability to adequately code around it that lay at fault.  Today, prices have almost completely recovered from what amounted to a flash crash, and are back around $700. The big news this morning is that a hedge fund announced it had begun accepting Bitcoins for all deposit transactions, and that as of yesterday it had processed $5.4 million worth, Coindesk's Pete Rizzo reports.  Anyway, prices are still down 16% from before MtGox announced it had halted withdrawals last week. Here's the chart from Coindesk: Coindesk  FREE AppDownload
It's Janet Yellen day today, with the new Fed chair testifying on Capitol Hill about the state of monetary policy. Then at 10:00 a.m., the Bureau of Labor Statistics will release the Job Openings and Labor Market Survey ("JOLTS" report), which Yellen herself has cited as an important labor market indicator. So here are the four charts we'll be looking at today. Job openings are on the rise, up 5.6% year-over-year compared to November 2012. FREDHires have been climbing slightly. FREDLayoffs are way down, which may be good, unless it's a sign of "labor hoarding." The idea here is that firms may be stockpiling the labor they have in order to maximize the productivity of the workers that outlasted the recession. When you see layoffs plunging but hires yet to really break through, it's an indication of labor hoarding instead of growth. FREDQuits have increased, up about 13% year-over-year. These are voluntary separations, so that's a good thing. People tend to quit their jobs if they're confident in the labor market and economy. FRED FREE AppDownload
Mark Wilson / Getty House Speaker John Boehner (R-OH) speaks to the media while flanked by House Majority Leader Eric Cantor (R-VA).House Republicans late Monday night unveiled a new plan of action on raising the nation's debt ceiling, one that ties a hike in the debt limit to a restoration of full pension benefits for some military veterans.  The plan was hashed out in final during a special conference meeting Monday evening, during which House Republican leaders looked for enough policy support from the conference to pass the legislation.  The legislation pays for the increase in spending from the restored military pension benefits by tacking on another year of some sequester cuts in Medicare and other mandatory spending programs. The House could vote on the measure as soon as Wednesday. If it doesn't approve the legislation, House Speaker John Boehner could then pivot to a "clean" increase in the nation's debt ceiling — just days before a Feb. 27 deadline. Leadership feels that this legislation gives it the best chance of passing something with a mix of Republican and Democratic votes. But Democrats, while not outwardly dismissing the legislation Monday night, continued to say they prefer a "clean" hike. And conservatives sharply pushed back on the measure, because it increases spending. Over the past three years, Republicans have framed the raising the debt ceiling as a debate over curbing long-term spending. "What in the world has happened between August of 2011 – when the president and the Senate were partners with us, to both raise the debt ceiling, and try to solve the problem – to today, where folks say, 'No, clean debt ceiling. No problem, nothing to see here,'" Rep. Rob Woodall said. Added Rep. Mo Brooks: "It's an entire 180-degree flip flop." Right now, time is Congress' worst enemy, in a fiscal battle that has been largely fought within the Republican conference. The House is only in session for three days this week, before House Democrats go on their annual strategy retreat. The next full day that Congress is scheduled to be in session is Feb. 26 — one day before the "drop-dead date," after which Treasury Secretary Jack Lew has said the Treasury will have trouble meeting all of its obligations. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlos BarriaExpatriates walk along a busy street as they distribute face masks to pedestrians to raise awareness of air pollution in downtown Shanghai January 24, 2013.China is the world's second largest economy, with its 2014 growth projected at 7.7 percent, compared to just 2.8 percent in the U.S. China's companies are increasingly going abroad, but is the People's Republic of China really poised to take over the business world? Here are five reasons why China Inc. will fail to dominate global commerce.  1. China's domestic economy is unstable. China's economy is dangerously skewed towards investment, which is unsustainable. Half of China's economic output is fixed capital, compared to 15 to 30 percent in most countries. This infrastructure binge means there is a great deal of waste. For example, more than 55 new airports are planned by 2015, even though recent figures suggest that 75 percent of China's airports lose money. (Read more: Friend or foe: How does the US view China?) The Chinese economy is becoming even more unstable as government and corporate debt are rising quickly. China's National Audit Office issued a report in December showing China's public debt has more than doubled since 2010 to 58 percent of GDP, sending the financial press into fits. More than a fifth of new debt issued is being used to retire old debt and localities still rely heavily on land sales to pay off old debts, both major red flags. 2. Chinese innovation is in its early days. China was recently ranked number 25 in global innovation, behind Poland and Australia. Falsified academic research is rampant and successful businesses are often built by simply copying foreign business models. Nevertheless, Beijing is pushing hard to create high value products and climb its way up the innovation curve. It is trying to drive new ideas through business incubators at universities like Tsinghua in Beijing, through private sector corporations like Xiaomi, and by purchasing nascent technology from abroad and bringing it back to China, as is frequently happening in clean technology. (Read more: Rich Chinese are fleeing—here's where they're going) 3. China's demographic, pollution and social challenges are curtailing growth. There's an adage that China will grow old before it grows rich. And it's true. China is projected to be the world's oldest society by 2030 and this rapid demographic shift is expected to cut more than 3 percent from GDP between now and then. On the environmental front, China's now infamous "airpocalypse" has left Beijing, Shanghai and much of the country covered in intense smog the past two winters. Water pollution is also serious with up to 300 million Chinese lacking access to safe drinking water. These challenges will require massive economic change and capital to fix, which in turn will curtail China's ability to grow its global presence and require it to focus resources on the home front. 4. The state-owned sector makes it challenging to create global companies. China's economic and innovation challenges are partially a symptom of the continued dominance of the 114,000 State Owned Enterprises (SOEs). While SOEs enjoy preferential treatment for loans and subsidies, their return on equity is still only half that of the private sector. Moreover, SOE culture does not work on a global scale. Successful global corporations thrive on a meritocratic system that SOEs simply do not have. (Read more: Time to tweak your China strategy) 5. China is not doing enough to curtail corruption. China still turns a blind eye to its rampant corporate corruption. Most Chinese companies do not have truly independent directors and accounting scandals remain all too common. Building global businesses without strong corporate governance is nearly impossible and China Inc. has a long way to go to change its corporate culture. China's economic rise is the defining trend of the past 25 years. As Chinese companies start to go abroad in earnest, they will likely lead in Asian markets and be important players around the world. However, the PRC's economic fragility, innovation struggles, demographic and environmental challenges, reliance on SOEs, and corruption issues will continue to limit its ability to truly dominate the global business world.   FREE AppDownload
Alex Trautwig/Getty ImagesBarclays bank's stock is down 5% this morning after the bank posted dismal earnings and announced that it would cut 12,000 jobs, which is about 9% of its work force. Overall, Barclays posted a $1.05 billion loss for Q4 2013 (check out the announcement here). Its investment bank posted a $539 million loss in over the same period. And of course, like other major banks across the globe, Barclays has had to dole out major cash to pay legal penalties for a variety of transgressions — from manipulating the LIBOR interest rate to the $2.4 billion the bank has put aside for small businesses that were sold complex financial products. The bankers that survive these layoffs, it should be noted, will be paid higher bonuses, which has made some labor groups upset. The C-suite has argued, and continues to argue, that this is the only way to attract top talent. Over the last year, Barclays' investment bank bonus pool is up 13%. Barclays CEO Antony Jenkins, for his part, gave up his bonus for 2013, despite the fact that overall Barclays' executive bonus pool is almost three times what the bank pays out in dividends, as one U.K. corporate governance expert complained to the Wall Street Journal. "It cannot be right in any business for the executive bonus pool to be nearly three times bigger than the total dividend pay out to the company's owners," said Roger Barker, director of corporate governance at the Institution of Directors. "In 2013, the bank paid out £859 million in dividends compared to a staff bonus pool of £2.38 billion. The question must be asked—for whom is this institution being run?" This is all a part of the massive restructuring that the bank has undergone since the financial crisis. It's selling loan portfolios and pulling out of retail banking, while at the same time meeting new regulatory capital requirements. Most of the job cuts will be felt in the United Kingdom — about 7,000. Over 800 of the job cuts will be senior positions. FREE AppDownload
Business Insider AustraliaJay Simons at an Atlassian user conferenceBack in 1992, British professor Robin Dunbar theorized that people could only maintain a maximum of 150 stable relationships due to limitations of the human brain. That’s a problem in the modern business world, where companies comprise hundreds, or even thousands, of people, and just about everyone you meet wants to stay in touch on Facebook, Twitter or LinkedIn. Atlassian president Jay Simons, who manages a team of about 260 people in San Francisco, has a nifty trick for remembering the basics about everyone who works in the US office. “We’re not all going to go out simultaneously because there’s not a bar big enough to hold us all, but I know everybody and I hang out with a bunch of people,” he said. “I pride myself on knowing every name in the [Atlassian] building, in part because I work really hard at it.” Here’s how he does it: “We do an all-staff meeting every month and we have a tradition where we introduce new employees and they have to come up and say who they are, what they’re going to do here and where they last were. One thing I insist on is I actually go around and take their picture for the [ slide] deck that we include them in. It’s the one opportunity were I can make sure that I can mentally record who they are. So I take their picture and I meet them, so I’ve had two minutes with them where I’m going to say ‘hi’. I may not see them [again] for the next couple of weeks.” Atlassian was founded by Sydneysiders Mike Cannon-Brooks and Scott Farquhar in 2001 and has grown rapidly from two to an organization of 750 in its 12 years. The company is widely expected to list on the NYSE or NASDAQ. This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Australia’s central bank spent most of 2013 trying to drive down the Australian dollar, and a new chart from UBS perfectly illustrates why. UBS economists Scott Haslem, George Tharenou and associate Delian Entchev compared historical NAB business survey results to the value of the AUD. Improvements in NAB business conditions in late-1998, 2001, 2009 and 2014 coincided with falls in the AUD. From the UBS report: UBS Business conditions neared a three-year high in January, with NAB today putting the index at 4.4 points – the highest level since March 2011. Ironically, the AUD jumped almost 0.4% after NAB’s data release and is now trading at about $US0.90. This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eduardo MunozAlly, a standard poodle, poses for a picture after winning the non-sporting group during day one of judging of the 2014 Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show in New YorkGood morning! Here's what you need to know. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Toby MelvilleA logo hangs outside a branch of a Barclays bank in London April 30, 2010. Barclays Plc met quarterly profit expectations as bad debts fell sharply and investment bank earnings rose but income growth at its BarCap investment banking arm failed to match the lofty levels shown by rivals. Each of the 140,000 staff members at Barclays has a target set at the start of each year against which their pay is determined by the year end. In 2013, for the first time, 150 senior managers had an element of pay linked to what the new boss Antony Jenkins calls the "five Cs". This focus on customers, colleagues, citizenship, conduct and company was introduced following the public furore caused by the £290m fine for rigging Libor, the scandal that sparked the promotion of Jenkins from running the retail bank to group chief executive when Bob Diamond quit in July 2012. From 2014, these five Cs will now be taken into account when setting the pay of all Barclays staff. Staff are being told their pay will be linked not just to what they achieve but how they go about it. The five Cs are included in what Jenkins called a balanced score card, which sets eight goals to be achieved by 2018. Improving the rating by customers from fourth to first and move from a fourth position in "share of wallet" across the industry to inside the top 3. Increasing the number of women in leadership roles to 26% from 21% and improving the "engagement" of colleagues from 74% to 91%. Hitting the targets in the bank's citizenship plan, which sets out a number of promises about paying taxes and treatment of customers. Improve the measure in the YouGov survey from 5.2 out of 10 to 6.5. Having return on equity (a measure of shareholder performance) that is greater than the cost of equity (the cost of doing business) and also have core tier one capital ratio (a measure of financial strength) of 10.5%, up from 9.3% now. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Joshua RobertsJanet Yellen.Today, Janet Yellen will offer her first public remarks as chair of the Federal Reserve in the central bank's semi-annual testimony before Congress on monetary policy. No one expects much new information to come from the event, which means the market reaction could be limited, barring any unexpected curveballs. "While Yellen has served the Fed at different times and in different roles over the past 36 years, this testimony offers her a unique opportunity to reintroduce herself to the world in her newly-elevated capacity," says Neal Soss, chief economist at Credit Suisse. "That said, unlike Mario Draghi at the ECB or Haruhiko Kuroda at the BoJ or Mark Carney at the BoE, we suspect the first impression Yellen will strive to convey is continuity rather than decisive innovation." Morgan Stanley chief U.S. economist and former secretary and economist of the FOMC Vincent Reinhart previews some of the questions Yellen may be asked during her testimony in a note to clients: 1) How fast can the US economy grow in the long run? As Congress tries to assess the Fed's performance, they'll be interested to hear where the Fed thinks long term growth will settle. Morgan Stanley estimates potential near 2.5%. 2) What is the limit to how low the unemployment rate can go? With a trend decline in labor force participation and unemployment falling faster than expected, Congress will be interested in just how far down the unemployment rate can sink. 3) Who benefits from your policy largesse — the 99 percent or the 1 percent? As representatives of “Main Street,” Congress cares about how Fed policy affects the average American. Do low interest rates benefit only the wealthy who own financial assets, while punishing everyday savers? 4) If you had your druthers, who would be your vice chair? We don't know if Stanley Fisher was Yellen's or Obama's choice. They may be interested in who else she'd like to be Vice Chair or on the Fed's Board of Governors. 5) How much will the expiration of the unemployment benefits harm the economy? Unemployment benefits have been a hot button issue in Congress. Democrats may try to leverage Yellen to prove the urgency of the matter. 6) What's the exit plan? Tapering is a step in the direction of ending unconventional monetary policy, but the Fed has a long way to go before their balance sheet is normalized. 7) How do you believe historians will judge the expansion of the Fed under your predecessor? Under Ben Bernanke, the Fed underwent the most rapid expansion of its purview in the institution's history. Its role in regulating the financial system in addition to accomplishing monetary goals has sparked sharp controversy among Congress. 8) Do you feel the Fed is structured to deal with broadened responsibilities? Following the financial crisis, the role of the Fed as a facilitator and regulator has greatly expanded. Perhaps it's time to expand its leadership in terms of expertise and restructure to better accommodate its new role. 9) Should we be concerned about spillover of the recent weakness in developing (EM) economies? The Fed made no mention of EM weakness in their January statement. Weaker than expected payrolls growth in December and January may cause additional slowdown concerns. Having several weeks to digest EM strains, Yellen may have more to say than the standard syllogism. 10) Do you believe there is a skills gap in the labor force? What additional measures can the Fed take to act further on its mandate to ensure full employment? The unemployment rate keeps falling, but job growth remains lackluster. Both sides of the aisle probably feel the Fed should do more to reduce some of the slack in the labor force. If these are any indication, market participants may be left without much to chew on. However, there is one notable aspect of Tuesday's proceedings that has caught some attention today. According to the House Financial Services Committee, following Yellen's testimony, a second panel of witnesses — comprised of former Fed vice chairman Don Kohn, Stanford economist John B. Taylor, Cato Institute's Mark Calabria, and American Enterprise Institute's Abby McCloskey — will critique Yellen's remarks. "This is not normal," says Neil Dutta, head of U.S. economics at Renaissance Macro. "Judging from the make-up of the panel, we doubt these reactions (with the exception of Kohn) will be favorable to Yellen's message. So now, with a new Chair(wo)man debuting before legislators, Congress decides to go after the Fed's credibility." The move is not unprecedented. As recently as then-chairman Ben Bernanke's July 2010 Humphrey Hawkins testimony, a second panel followed the Fed chief. Ian Lyngen, a senior government bond strategist at CRT Capital, says the second panel "could offer event-risk for what might otherwise be an uneventful rehash of the FOMC's stance." "We don't have a strong stance on the potential here for price action inspired by the Fed critics, but with the marquee names of Taylor and Kohn, we are open to the risk that people listen and they disagree with Yellen's more dovish policy spin," says Lyngen. "If so, Yellen could pre-empt the response with a more balanced text." Either way, the chairwoman's prepared remarks will be released Tuesday morning at 8:30 AM ET. The testimony begins at 10:00 AM. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
barclays.comLONDON (Reuters) - British bank Barclays &lt;BARC.L&gt; said it expects to cut between 10,000 and 12,000 jobs at the bank this year, including about 7,000 in Britain. Chief Executive Antony Jenkins said about half of the affected staff in Britain had been notified. The bank had 139,600 staff at the end of December. (Reporting by Steve Slater; Editing by Matt Scuffham) FREE AppDownload
Japan produced a gloomy batch of economic data Monday showing shoppers growing nervous and the trade deficit ballooning, as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe prepares to launch a controversial sales tax rise. The government said consumer sentiment weakened in January, while the current account surplus -- the broadest measure of trade with the rest of the world -- hit a record low in 2013 as the cheap yen pushed up energy bills. A policy blitz by Abe, which meshes government spending with central bank monetary easing, has driven the yen down and boosted stock prices, earning him acclaim for kickstarting the long-sluggish economy. A recent tally of the Nikkei economic daily showed nearly 70 percent of listed Japanese companies are likely to post sales and profit growth in the current business year to March. However, many firms have yet to embrace Abe's call to hike wages. A poll by Kyodo news agency last month showed nearly three-quarters of Japanese people are feeling no effect from the so-called Abenomics. Worryingly for the premier, it also showed that only 17 percent of firms -- around a sixth -- are planning to hike wages, even as Japan begins to experience real inflation for the first time in several years. Monday's data from the Cabinet Office showed the consumer sentiment index fell to 40.5 in January, the lowest level since 39.9 in December 2012. A reading below 50 indicates pessimism. The subindex on views on livelihood fell to its lowest reading since June 2011 and that on willingness to buy durable goods dropped to the weakest since May 2011 -- suggesting the mood is as gloomy as the months soon after the earthquake-tsunami that wrecked the northeast coast and hammered the economy. Separate data from the finance ministry showed Japan had a surplus of 3.31 trillion yen ($32 billion) on its current account in 2013, the weakest on comparable data stretching back to 1985. The current account is the broadest measure of the country's trade with the rest of the world, including not only trade in goods but also services, tourism and returns on the country's foreign investment. Government leaders last month said they were winning the war on stubborn deflation as consumer prices logged their their first rise for five years in 2013. But the rise was largely driven by soaring import bills due to a cheap yen and the country's reliance on importing expensive fossil fuels since its nuclear plants were shuttered after the tsunami-sparked Fukushima crisis. Japan's trade deficit more than doubled to 10.6 trillion yen in 2013 from the previous year as costlier imports of oil and gas overwhelmed export growth. Abe has decided to follow through on a pledge by his predecessor to hike Japan's 5.0 percent sales tax to 8.0 percent in April. The move is seen as a crucial first step towards bringing down an eye-watering national debt, but naysayers fear it will derail Japan's budding recovery. Some economists say continuing trade deficits may be a sign that Abenomics is actually succeeding. Unlike previous recoveries in Japan, his policy of much greater monetary easing and bringing inflation into the economy is aimed more at domestic consumption than pushing goods overseas. "If Abenomics succeeds, domestic demand-led economic growth will be achieved, making current account deficits a more regular feature of the Japanese economy," predicted Koya Miyamae, economist with SMBC Nikko Securities. -- Dow Jones Newswires contributed to this article --   Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
BEIJING (AP) — The reaction was slow in coming, but financial markets and corporate bosses have been jolted awake to China's relentless growth decline and are scrambling to cope with wrenching changes in global business. For the past decade, China poured money into building new factories, highways and apartment blocks. That propelled explosive growth at home and a flood of money to exporters of iron ore and other commodities such as Australia and Peru. But now, Beijing has put the brakes on that boom. Like a captain turning a heavy ship in choppy seas, its leaders are trying to steer the world's second-largest economy away from reliance on investment and toward being a consumer society. Growth has marched steadily downward over the past two years as Beijing clamped down on a spending boom that analysts worry has pushed debt to dangerous levels. That has meant less Chinese demand for imported goods from copper and cement to factory machinery and earth movers. China is far from falling off a financial cliff, but last year's 7.7 percent growth was barely half of 2007's 14.2 percent. Global stock markets slid after an unexpected fall in January manufacturing drew attention to the depth of the slowdown. Growth looks set to fall further amid weakness in trade, retail sales and manufacturing. "The growth slowdown this year will be faster than many expect," said economist Diana Choyleva of Lombard Street Research in a report. Already, slumping Chinese demand has led to job cuts at mines in Australia and elsewhere. Other companies that looked to China to drive revenues are cutting sales forecasts. Some have pulled out and profits are down, possibly endangering jobs abroad. As for Chinese companies, they face tougher competition at home. That, combined with weaker investment, could lead to job or wage cuts if Beijing fails to manage the challenges of its transition. That might hurt consumer spending, leading to a downward spiral. "It would then become a race to the bottom," said Choyleva. A look at losers and possible winners from China's slowdown: — COMMODITIES China's voracious appetite for commodities propelled a boom in Australia and emerging economies in Africa and Latin America. With revenues down, exporters are cutting jobs and governments are tightening their spending. The International Monetary Fund has reduced its 2014 growth forecasts for South Africa, Brazil, the Middle East and Southeast Asia. Caterpillar Inc. has cut 13,000 jobs, blaming slower Chinese growth and weak spending by miners, and says it will cut more. Hardest-hit might be poor countries in Africa or Latin America that might have to cut ambitious plans for spending on education and other social programs. — FOREIGN COMPANIES Global companies have long seen China as one of their most promising markets, and most frustrating. China is the biggest market for Volkswagen AG and some other automakers. Yum Brands, the U.S.-based operator of Pizza Hut, KFC and Taco Bell, already gets half its revenue from China. But U.S. and European companies are being squeezed by tougher competition and by Beijing's efforts to limit access to promising industries such as clean energy. Cosmetics brand Revlon Inc. says it will pull out of China. Actavis PLC, a generic drug maker, is leaving too. Sales of Swiss watches in China fell last year after an anti-corruption crackdown crimped gift-giving. The Communist Party has promised to open more industries such as Internet commerce and logistics to foreign competitors. But previous market opening initiatives have been tempered by conditions that include handing technology to potential Chinese competitors. — AUTOS China buoyed the global auto industry after the 2008 crisis. It passed the United States as the world's biggest car market in 2009 and annual sales still are rising by double-digit rates. But growth is decelerating sharply. That steps up pressure on China's fledgling automakers while global rivals add to their market share. Sales by independents grew by 11.4 percent last year, slower than the overall market at 15.7 percent. Their market share slipped by 1.6 percentage points to 40.3 percent. This year's market growth is due to slow to about 10 percent. Independents will face increased pressure to merge or close. — CHINESE ACQUISITIONS ABROAD Squeezed at home, Chinese companies might try to sharpen their competitive edge by acquiring foreign brands and technology. Past acquisitions include Volvo Cars, Club Med and American meat packer Smithfield. Last month, Beijing-based Lenovo Group bought part of IBM Corp.'s server business and the Motorola mobile phone business from Google Inc. — POSSIBLE WINNERS One bright spot is Beijing's effort to encourage consumer spending. China's market for consumer-oriented goods such as wheat from Brazil, soybeans from Minnesota and French wine is growing. Such sales could accelerate if Beijing can persuade households to spend more. Also, suppliers to fields the Communist Party is promoting such as health care, energy efficiency and pollution control could see more opportunities. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
AP/Jacquelyn Martin It's a big day for Janet Yellen. For two reasons. One of them you certainly already know: The new Fed Chair is giving her first Humphrey-Hawkins testimony in front of Congress. These will be her first public comments since taking office, and the entire world will be hanging on her every word. We'll be covering that live. Today is also the release of one of Janet Yellen's favorite economic datapoint: JOLTS. JOLTS stands for Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey, and unlike the normal jobs report, it looks at things like how many people quit their jobs, and how many job openings went unfilled and stuff like that. Looking at the number of unfilled jobs relative to the number of newly employed people can give you a good sense of whether the problems in the labor market are cyclical (merely a function of the economic cycle) or structural (whether they're a matter of some mismatch in the labor market). So far, there's been very little evidence of a structural employment problem. As for the state of JOLTS, here's some background from Calculated Risk: At 10:00 AM, the Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey for December from the BLS. Jobs openings increased in November to 4.001 million from 3.931 million in October. The number of job openings were up 5.6% year-over-year compared to November 2012 and this was the first time job openings had been above 4 million since 2008. Quits increased in November and were up about 13% year-over-year. These are voluntary separations, so this is a positive indicator.  We'll be covering it all LIVE. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Cameron Spencer/Getty Images Good morning! It's Janet Yellen day. The new Fed Chair will give her first Humphrey-Hawkins testimony on the state of the economy in front of Congress today. It will be the first time the public has heard from her since she has taken office. Markets are considerably more calm than they were just a few days ago, when there was significant selling pressure almost everywhere. Today markets are rallying pretty much everywhere, with gains being seen in Europe, US futures, and Asian stocks. A side story is that the Kazakh central bank devalued its currency, the tenge, by 17% today — the latest emerging market now to see a big currency dive. FREE AppDownload
