When first introduced to investing, people are often told that the stock market offers around 10% per year. Meanwhile, bonds offer a mid-single digit return annually. However, these average numbers rarely reflect what'll happen in any single year. In fact, it's actually rare to see the stock market return 10% in any particular year. But on an annualized basis, historically, the market is more likely to deliver these average returns the longer you hold these investments. This eye-opening chart comes from JP Morgan Asset Management. It shows the range of returns on an annualized basis for stocks, bonds, and a 50/50 stock-bond portfolio over 1-year, 5-year, 10-year, and 20-year periods. The returns data is from 1950-2013. As you can see to the left, the stock market gave as much as 51% and took away as much as 37% in any given year. For an investor with a minimum 5-year investment period, a portfolio of stocks would've done no worse than -2% on an annualized basis while offering a return of up to 28% using the same calculation. If you extend the holding period to 20 years, you'll see the worst you would've done is +6% annualized while getting +18% annualized in the best case. The average annualized returns for stocks during those 20-year periods: 11.1%. That's very close to the 10% we're taught as kids. Assuming history repeats, the longer your holding period, the more predictable and typical your annualized returns become. JP Morgan Asset Management FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mohamed Nureldin Abdallah"We are bearish gold." Credit Suisse is newly out with a huge report on its outlook for 2015, and among its 10 best trade ideas for next year: short gold. The firm's technical analysis team puts a price target of $950 on the precious metal for the end of next year, and Credit Suisse's David Sneddon says that from a technical analysis standpoint,  and his team that gold's recent break below $1,180 confirmed a bearish "triangle" continuation pattern.   Here's the technical chart from Credit Suisse. Credit Suisse The firm's quick rationale: "Gold remains very expensive relative to historical norms, with carrying costs becoming more penal as US interest rates begin to rise." And continued strength in the US dollar should also keep gold under pressure, the firm writes.  Credit Suisse, elsewhere in its research report, also argues that equities have become a hedge against inflation, a role that was typically assigned to commodities and particularly gold.  Amid the recent decline in gold, Credit Suisse isn't the first research firm to say gold could be in trouble. Back in early October, analysts at Ned Davis Research said that, amid a declining "supercycle" for gold, the precious metal could be headed to $660.  A look at the long-term chart for gold and you can see that it's been an ugly couple of years. And while gold rebounded a bit late last week, the longer-term outlook for gold is less than, well, you know. FRED FREE AppDownload
Morningstar.comJeremy GranthamYou could argue that Jeremy Grantham is bullish. In a new quarterly letter to GMO clients, the gloomy veteran fund manager predicts the S&amp;P 500 could see another 10% surge from the 2,041 level we're at today. "My personal fond hope and expectation is still for a market that runs deep into bubble territory (which starts... at 2250 on the S&amp;P 500 on our data) before crashing as it always does," he wrote. We should remind you that exactly a year ago when the S&amp;P 500 was at around 1,790, Grantham made a medium-term prediction that the market could see gains of 20% to 30% in one to two years. That call was actually more bullish than the typically bullish forecasts of Wall Street's sell-side strategists. So far, the market is almost perfectly tracking Grantham's prediction, which only makes us more nervous about his calls for a crash. To be clear, don't mistake Grantham's near-term forecast as him being bullish. He and his GMO colleagues are rather bearish on stocks. GMO's James Montier described the firm's base-case scenario for the next seven years as a "purgatory of low returns." "On our data, with U.S. large cap equities offering negative returns (-1.5%) except for high quality stocks (+2.2%), with foreign developed and emerging equities overpriced (+3.7%), and with bonds and cash also very unattractive, investors have to twist and turn to find even a semi-respectable portfolio," Grantham noted. "It is a particularly tough process today with nowhere to hide and no very good investments compared to, say, the time around the 2000 bubble when there were several." GMO GMO's Ben Inker offers a Hell scenario in which investors are rewarded a bit more over the next seven years as savers get punished. Still, both the Hell and Purgatory scenarios mean unusually low average annual returns for many years to come. "Our official forecasts are for the Purgatory path and our hopes are there as well because Hell is a very unpleasant long-run outcome for investors," Inker writes. "But if we knew we were in Hell, the right solution today is a decently risked-up portfolio. That portfolio doesn’t make sense in a Purgatory scenario, as the extra risk gives almost no additional return." Like bullish stock market strategists Ed Yardeni and Sam Stovall, Grantham points to various historical calendar patterns that suggests now is a great time to be in stocks. Here's Grantham on years three of the US presidential terms: Regular readers know the score: +2.5% a month for the seven months from October 1 to April 30, in year three on average since 1932 (a total of +17%). This is now the 21st cycle. The odds of drawing 20 random 7-month returns this strong are just over 1 in 200 according to our 10 million trials. But 17 of the actual 20 historical experiences were up and the worst of the 3 downs was only -6.4%, so the odds of this consistency plus the high return would be much smaller. The remaining 5 months of the Presidential year have a good but not remarkable record, over .75% per month, but the killer here is that the remaining 36 months since 1932 averaged a measly +0.2% a month! Grantham warns that this time is different with negatives including the ending of the Fed's bond purchase program, the prospect of soon-than-expected rate hikes, the escalation of geopolitical turmoil, and the ongoing threat of the Ebola virus spreading. We've already seen the S&amp;P fall over 9% from September 19 to October 15 on those same fears before roaring back to new all-time highs. "Usually the bubble excitement – which seems inevitably to be led by U.S. markets – starts about now, entering the sweet spot of the Presidential Cycle’s year three, but occasionally, as you have probably discovered the hard way already, history can be a snare and not a help." FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersPedestrians with umbrellas walk past an electronic board showing Japan's Nikkei average and the exchange rates between the Japanese yen and the U.S. dollar, outside a brokerage in TokyoBy Hideyuki Sano TOKYO (Reuters) - Japanese shares led a tentative recovery in Asian shares on Tuesday, drawing some support from two U.S. blockbuster acquisitions and anticipation of more European monetary stimulus. A day after shock data showing Japan slipping into recession had rattled financial markets, Japan's Nikkei rose 1.4 percent in early trade, erasing about a half of its 3.0 percent fall the previous day. MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan was flat. Japan's economy shrank an annualized 1.6 percent in July-September after a 7.3 percent slide in the second quarter, when a sales tax hike hit consumer spending. The data raised doubts over whether Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's policy of massive monetary and fiscal stimulus, while having an early success in boosting asset prices, is helping to boost the real economy. With Abe expected later in the day to call a snap election, investors are focusing on whether his policies and Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) will continue to gain support from voters. "While there has been some decline in the support rate for  Abe's cabinet there has been no accompanying rise in the support for the opposition from the depressed level. We would therefore expect the main ruling LDP to maintain its majority and for Abenomics to continue," said Miyuki Kashima, managing director at BNY Mellon Asset Management. "As a result, our positive view on the market remains unchanged," she added. On Wall Street, the S&amp;P 500 rose slightly to a record closing high on Monday, helped by deal activity worth $100 billion and hopes of more European stimulus. ECB President Mario Draghi said the central bank is ready for further stimulus if its current efforts are not sufficient to accelerate the region’s recovery, adding such new measures could include purchases of sovereign bonds. The comments came after ECB Executive Board member Yves Mersch said the central bank could theoretically extend purchases to gold, shares, or exchange traded funds (ETFs) or other assets if more action is needed. "Hopes for an ECB stimulus would underpin European shares. Still, the impact of stimulus would not last that long, as you can see in Japan," said Soichiro Monji, chief strategist at Daiwa SB Investments. As investors count on the ECB to increase stimulus, they sold the euro, preferring to hold dollars as the U.S. Federal Reserve is expected to raise rates next year. The euro traded at $1.2445, having slipped from 2 1/2-week high of $1.2580 hit the previous day. The Japanese yen traded at 116.77 yen to the dollar, near a seven-year low of 117.06 hit in the wake of Monday's  shocking GDP data. Gold lost momentum on the dollar's strength, trading at $1,186.30 off a 2 1/2-week high of $1,193.95 hit on Monday. Oil prices slid as recession in Japan, the world's fourth largest crude importer, added to oversupply worries. But prices managed to hover above four-year lows as Russia and Venezuela appeared to be coordinating a price defense plan. U.S. crude futures traded at $75.44 per barrel, off Friday's four-year low of $73.25.  (Editing by Eric Meijer) FREE AppDownload
Gluskin Sheff's David Rosenberg doesn't see a bear market in stocks any time soon.  But this doesn't mean he doesn't see worrisome signs. In a note Monday, Rosenberg wrote that these seven things could strain equity markets in the near term: Rosenberg also identified some positives on the flipside. Strong incoming economic data and the possibility of looser monetary policy from the European Central Bank, People's Bank of China and Bank of Japan could be tailwinds. The winter months may also provide a seasonal lift, as they are usually offer the best returns for equities. "One are of the US that may soon get a lift is housing — at least if the Homebuilding stocks are any indication," he added. "Now that capex growth has resumed and the state &amp; local governments are contributing, residential real estate would provide the sole missing link left in this recovery." So, there's good news to offset the bad. FREE AppDownload
snoboard1010 / FlickrThings have been slow in the markets.  From late summer into early fall, volatility increased, culminating in October's sharp sell off and bounce back. But since bouncing off the October 15 lows and returning to all-time highs, the S&amp;P 500 has completely gone to sleep. And the last five closes on the S&amp;P 500 have been in the tightest range since Lyndon Johnson was president.  A number of folks were pointing out just how slow its been on Twitter. Finance blogger (and great Twitter follow) Eddy Elfenbein pointed out that the last five trading days have seen the S&amp;P 500 move +0.07%, -0,07%, +0.05%, +0.02% and +0.07%, respectively. Shades of June for the stock market. And Elfenbein added that since October 22, the S&amp;P 500 hasn't declined more than 0.3% in one session. At current levels, that's equivalent to about a 6 point move, so basically the S&amp;P 500 hasn't done anything but go up in weeks. But the folks over at Nautilus Research put these observations in some perspective, noting that the last five closes have been in the tightest 5-day S&amp;P 500 range since 1964! And what's more, this is just the fourth time since 1900 that the S&amp;P 500 has closed within such a narrow range. Here's the chart. That's what a sleepy market looks like. @NautilusCap FREE AppDownload
The great chocolate shortage has begun.  Roberto Ferdman has a great overview of what's going on at Wonkblog. Here's a summary of the issues: That last point seems to be the long term issue here. The core of the story is the rising global middle class, which continues to grow. As millions more every year are gaining disposable income, small luxuries, like chocolate bars, are available to more and more people. If supply more or less stays stable, prices are necessarily going to have to increase.  With the help of the Hershey's Index at foodtimeline.org, we created a chart of chocolate prices over the last century: Andy Kiersz / foodtimeline.orgNotice that giant drop in 2008. We also plotted the size of a Hershey bar over the last century.  Andy Kiersz / foodtimeline.orgThere was a time when Hershey bars kept getting smaller, but that time is no longer   Tangentially related: Those who still haven't made it into the ranks of the global middle class (and likely aren't going to see much of that rising price of chocolate) are the cocoa producers themselves. Many have never tasted the end product before.     FREE AppDownload
Since 1988, Wine Spectator's editors have been reviewing the best wines in the world. In 2014, they reviewed about 18,000 new wines and narrowed their list down to a manageable 100 they deemed the most “thought-provoking.” This year, the winner was surprising. Instead of the usual French or California bordeaux or chardonnay, the winning wine was a vintage port from Portugal — highly unexpected.  The ranking spans 14 countries (including the US) with an average price point of $47 (lower than last year’s $51).  Below are the 20 best wines of 2014, according to Wine Spectator, based on quality, value, availability, and "x-factor."  Dow Vintage Port ($82) Mollydooker Shiraz McLaren Vale Carnivale of Love ($75) Prats &amp; Symington Douro Chryseia ($55) Quinta do Vale Meão Douro ($76) Leeuwin Chardonnay Margaret River Art Series ($89) Castello di Ama Chianti Classico San Lorenzo Gran Selezione ($52) Clos des Papes Châteauneuf-du-Pape ($135) Brewer-Clifton Pinot Noir Sta. Rita Hills ($40) Concha y Toro Cabernet Sauvignon Puente Alto Don Melchor ($125) Château Léoville Las Cases St.-Julien ($165) Mount Eden Vineyards Chardonnay Santa Cruz Mountains ($60) Château Guiraud Sauternes ($50) Fonseca Vintage Port ($116) Fontodi Colli della Toscana Centrale Flaccianello ($120) Bedrock The Bedrock Heritage Sonoma Valley ($42) Two Hands Shiraz Barossa Valley Bella’s Garden ($69) Soter Pinot Noir Yamhill-Carlton District Mineral Springs Ranch ($60) Château Doisy-Védrines Barsac ($35) Luca Malbec Uco Valley ($32) Peter Michael Chardonnay Knights Valley Ma Belle-Fille ($90) You can view the full list of 100 wines at Wine Spectator. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Shannon StapletonBernard Madoff (C) enters the Manhattan federal courthouse in New York March 10, 2009.NEW YORK (Reuters) - Former customers of Bernard Madoff may soon recover an additional $496.8 million as a result of a settlement with two "feeder funds" that was announced on Monday by the trustee liquidating the swindler's firm. The settlement, with the Herald Fund SPC and Primeo Fund, both based in the Cayman Islands, is one of the largest obtained by the trustee, Irving Picard, since the failure of Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC in December 2008. If approved by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Stuart Bernstein in Manhattan, the payout would push the sum recovered by the trustee for Madoff customers above $10.3 billion. That equals about 59 percent of the estimated $17.5 billion of principal they lost in Madoff's decades-long Ponzi scheme. A hearing has been scheduled for Dec. 17. Nearly $6 billion has been distributed so far. "By any measure, the settlement terms are highly advantageous, not only to BLMIS direct customers with allowed claims, but also potentially to the indirect investors in the Herald Fund," Oren Warshavsky, a lawyer who negotiated the settlement for Picard, said in a statement. The accord resolves Picard's lawsuits against Herald and Primeo to recoup sums they withdrew from Madoff's firm in the six years before that firm collapsed. Herald will receive a $1.64 billion claim in the Madoff firm's liquidation, entitling it to "catch-up payments" from four prior distributions that Picard made to customers. Out of these payments, the first $496.8 million will go to other Madoff customers. Herald will then share in future recoveries obtained by the trustee. The Herald and Primeo funds are both also in liquidation. Picard has filed more than 1,000 lawsuits against feeder funds that sent customer money to Madoff, and "net winners" who took out more from Madoff's firm than they put in. His largest settlement is a $7.2 billion accord with the estate of Jeffry Picower, a Florida investor who died in 2009. Picard also recouped $325 million from JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co, once Madoff's main bank. A separate $4.05 billion fund overseen by former U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Richard Breeden will also pay customers and third parties who lost money. Breeden said he has received 63,553 claims covering an alleged $76.65 billion of losses. Madoff, 76, is serving a 150-year prison term.   (Reporting by Jonathan Stempel in New York; Editing by David Ingram) FREE AppDownload
ReutersBrazilian billionaire Eike Batista (R), CEO of EBX Group and Michael Dolan, CEO of IMG Worldwide shake hands after a news conference for the launched the IMX Sport and Entertainment company in Rio de Janeiro December 9, 2011.If Eike Batista goes to jail for insider trading, he'll be the first person in Brazil to do so. In fact, he'll be the first person in Latin America to do so. He may, however, not be the first person who once claimed he'd become "the richest man in the world" to do so. The trial starts on Tuesday in a country where class issues have dominated the conversation since protestors filled the streets before the 2014's World Cup. In the presidential election the country held last month, class was brought up time and time again by the populist incumbent, Dilma Rousseff. Brazil is a place where the rich and the poor have historically lived by a separate set of rules. But it's also a place that has been trying to change all that – to strengthen the rule of law and create a transparent system. So at this insider trading trial Batista will not be the only one on display, Brazil's successful development as country will be on display as well. In many ways Batista has always been the perfect poster boy for this. Back in 2012 when he said he would become the richest man in the world it seems he was actually well on his way. At that point he was lucky number 7 with assets valued at around $35 billion. ReutersBrazilian billionaire Eike Batista (L), CEO of EBX Group, greets Brazil's President Dilma Rousseff during a ceremony in celebration of the start of oil production of OGX, Batista's oil and gas company, at the Superport Industrial Complex of Acu in Sao Joao da Barra in Rio de Janeiro April 26, 2012. What's more, Batista built his business building Brazil. His holding company EBX, contained a half dozen closely connected companies that focused on shipping, mining, logistics and more. The crown jewel of this was OGX — an oil and gas company — and Batista was the "pride of Brazil" loved by politicians and pop culture alike. It was OGX that would ultimately bring the entire the empire down. The fields that Batista christened 'Hammerhead' and said were brimming with black gold just under the surface turned out to be dry.  The insider case against Batista rests on whether or not he knew that his fields wouldn't yield, but manipulated the market in order to buy himself time to potentially save his companies. When it was suspected that OGX's fields were not going to deliver as promised, Batista said that he personally would commit $1 billion to keep the company afloat. The stock, which was plummeting, stabilized. Once the worst suspicions about OGX were confirmed, however, prosecutors allege that Batista started selling his stock in the company. Then he backed out of his $1 billion promise saying that the company had re-written its rules and relieved him of the responsibility. OGX, meanwhile, was the largest corporate bankruptcy in Latin American history and Wall Street was in up to its eyeballs. PIMCO, BlackRock and even Abu Dhabi's sovereign wealth fund had all invested in Batista. Furthermore, as went Batista, so went Brazil. From the time all the trouble started in late 2012 to the summer of 2013 — right before OGX went bankrupt — Batista's companies lost combined $9.7 billion. All 300 publicly traded companies in Brazil lost $203 billion in about the same period. Batista was forced to sell a bunch of his assets, like his yachts, planes and the prized Lamborghini he kept in his living room. Other holdings were transferred to his son and wife. Not exactly the moves of a man who is bullish on his own outcome. ReutersBatista had a Lamboughini Aventador Batista's lawyers tried to get this insider trading trial suspended, but it hasn't worked. Nothing they've done — in a country where the wealthy have been known to file appeal after appeal to keep themselves out of Court — has worked. For his part, Batista is vowing a comeback. According to the Financial Times he partly blames the government for his misfortune in a new autobiography. He's also made a $12 million deal with a South Korean pharmaceutical company, C.L. Pharm, and bought the rights to open a lab in Brazil. Hwang Woo-suk, the South Korean scientist behind C.L., wants to clone dogs. In 2005 he cloned a dog named Snuppy but was then accused of faking research on stem cell cloning. Hwang did not respond to the FT's requests for comment. FREE AppDownload
Millennials are about to become the most lucrative generation for retailers.  The 18 to 33-year-olds' spending habits are set to peak in the coming years, according to a recent report by Morgan Stanley. As a result, brands from McDonald's to Macy's are clamoring to attract the up-and-coming generation.  While the emergence of new consumers has hurt some sectors, like casual dining, many major brands will rake in cash, according to the report.  "What do Millennials like? Fast casual dining, hotels, buying online, gaming (social and online, less so casinos), eating organic and healthy, and working out more," the analysts write.  Morgan Stanley put together a chart showing which public companies it expects to most benefit from millennials' money.  Chipotle and Starbucks top the list because 40% or more of their customers are already millennials, according to the researchers.  Organic food and vitamins companies will also fare well because millennials care about health and nutrition more than their parents, according to the report.  Whole Foods will do especially well because it is partnering with a company called Instacart to offer delivery.  Morgan Stanley Research Under Armour and Nike will benefit from the continued "athleisure" trend of wearing workout clothes for a number of casual activities, according to the analysts.  Millennials are also concerned with value, which could help propel sales at discounters like TJ Maxx and Burlington Coat factory.  And the younger generations' tendency to spend on "experiences" over possessions means big profits for the hotel industry.  "A shift in spending power to global Millennials should continue to benefit Lodging companies as this generation is more mobile, appreciates high-end 'experiences,' and the hotels actively cater to this demand," the analysts write.  FREE AppDownload
YouTube/MovieclipstrailersHerd behavior can make us do stupid things — a phenomenon that's no stranger to Wall Street. Now, it turns out, we could be even more prone to blindly mimicking others when those others happen to look like us. Researchers at Columbia University found that stock market traders in ethnically homogeneous groups are more likely to accept speculative prices and overprice stocks, leading to more frequent bubbles. Meanwhile, groups of ethnically-diverse traders are 58 percent better at pricing stocks, they found. It's all summed up in a paper called "Ethnic Diversity Deflates Price Bubbles." "When we are surrounded by people who look like us, we tend to put confidence in their actions and sometimes this confidence is misplaced," said principal investigator Sheen Levine, of Columbia's Institute for Social and Economic Research and Policy. He and a team of five other academics set up their own 6-person stock markets — some ethnically diverse and others homogeneous — and incentivized each trader with real cash for keeps. First they held the experiment in Singapore, where the ethnically diverse markets included Chinese, Indian, and Malay traders. Then they held another in Texas, where markets were made up of white, African American, and Latino traders. Both experiments led to similar results. Next up, Levine plans to study the impacts of gender diversity on the trading floor. FREE AppDownload
Ben Bernanke was Chairman of the Federal Reserve during the financial crisis. He remained at the helm as the Fed led the economy out of the crisis using unprecedented amounts of easy monetary stimulus. For years, he and the Fed were the target of intense criticism from legislators. Charles Schwab's Liz Ann Sonders recently shared the stage with Bernanke. He reflected on those often frustrating and stressful times. From Sonders:  Dr. Bernanke recounted a different ritual when he became the head of the Council of Economic Advisors under President George W. Bush (who was also a speaker at IMPACT this year), which was the job he held before he took over the Fed. The new chair gets presented a sign that says, “In case of emergency, open the bottom drawer. When you opened the bottom drawer, there was a bottle of scotch.“ I took that as an opportunity to ask whether he agreed with the view expressed by many (including yours truly) that politicians need to return to the days when liquor flowed more freely and there were more collegial relationships in Washington. His reply?  “It couldn’t hurt.“ Sonders asked Bernanke how life has been since he retired. "On the whole, people have been very nice," he replied. "It was a very hard time; I’m sure that we didn’t do everything right. There was a lot of anger; a lot of people upset about the economy with good reason. But people have been very supportive. I’m very appreciative of that." Read Sonders' whole summary at Schwab.com. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueU.S. President Barack Obama, Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe meet at the G20 in Brisbane November 16, 2014.It was a quiet start to the week for the market, but by virtue of a higher close, the S&amp;P 500 again made an all-time closing high, topping 2,040 for the first time. Stock futures were lower overnight after Japan's economy unexpectedly fell into recession in the third quarter, but US stocks shook off these losses and closed the day mixed.  First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Monday: 1. We got two pieces of manufacturing data on Monday morning, the first coming from the New York Fed's Empire State manufacturing report, which saw the headline index come in at 10.2, below expectations for a reading of 12 but up from October's 6.17 reading. The report showed employment levels grew during the month, though average weekly hours worked declined. In a note to clients following the report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro called the report "mildly disappointing." 2. The Federal Reserve's latest industrial production report showed production fell 0.1% month-on-month in October, missing expectations for a 0.2% increase. Capacity utilization slipped to 78.9% from 79.3% last month. October's report showed the biggest declines in the mining and utilities sectors, which fell 0.9% and 0.7% respectively. But despite the mildly disappointing report, Chris Rupkey at MUFG said, "As far as the decline today, forget about it as manufacturing production is three-quarters of the index and manufacturing rose 0.2% today to 100.6 just short of July’s 100.7 all time record high." 3. The biggest story on Monday was the announced merger between Irish pharmaceutical company Actavis and Botox-maker Allergan. Actavis will acquire Allergan in a $66 billion cash and stock deal that values Allergan at about $219 per share, which also ended Canadian pharmaceutical company Valeant's pursuit of Allergan. Valeant had been pursuing a combination with Allergan as part of an effort the company undertook with hedge fund manager Bill Ackman. 4. Ackman is still a big winner on the deal, as Ackman acquired a 10% stake in Allergan as part of his effort to acquire the company along with Valeant, and according to Business Insider's Julia La Roche, this position has seen Ackman reap a profit north of $2 billion. And for Ackman, who has had just a huge year in 2014, this deal is what BI's Linette Lopez writes is a classic example of Wall Street's old "Heads I win, tails you lose" value proposition. Following the news, shares of all three companies advanced, with Allergan gaining more than 4%, Valeant gaining about 2%, and Actavis adding more than 1%. 5. Also in deal news on Monday, oil services giants Halliburton and Baker Hughes announced they will merge in a $34.6 billion deal that sees Halliburton acquire its smaller rival in a deal valuing Baker Hughes at $78.62 per share. The announcement follows news late Friday that the deal might be falling through, or that Halliburton would have to make their efforts to acquire Baker Hughes a hostile takeover.  6. Another big stock mover on Monday was DreamWorks Animation, which saw shares fall more than 14% after reports over the weekend said the company's merger talks with toymaker Hasbro fell apart, leaving DreamWorks without an acquirer for the second time in about six weeks. A notable gainer on Monday was Tyson, which added more than 5% after the chicken giant's quarterly profit topped expectations. 7. The crucial Holiday shopping season is fast approaching, and in an email circulated on Monday, Deutsche Bank economist Torsten Slok noted that an increase in retail hiring in October, which is when retailers beef up for the Holiday season, could be indicating a strong season ahead.  Don't Miss: Citi's Asian Clients Can't Believe They're Not More Bullish On US Stocks » FREE AppDownload
Mugshot via The Smoking GunFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisers. A Pennsylvania Financial Adviser Swindled His Own Family Using A Ponzi Scheme (The Times Tribune)  A Pennsylvania financial adviser, Jason Muskey, reportedly used a Ponzi scheme to swindle his mother, his wife's aunt and uncle, and two other unnamed people out of $400,000. He was sued for his actions on Friday and is currently waiting to see whether or not he will have to face federal criminal charges. "Mr. Muskey used the money for his personal benefit and covered up the thefts for years by sending out phony quarterly financial statements that outlined phony investments to the clients, all 'ordinary, hard-working, blue collar citizens,' who had saved money for retirement, the suit says," reports Borys Krawczeniuk. There's No Such Thing As A Traditional Retirement Anymore (Financial Advisor Magazine) Advisers will need to adapt to a new retirement landscape because there is no such thing as a traditional retirement anymore. There's a lot more diversity in financial situations, which can be attributed to demographic changes. "Advisors need to be ready to deal with three-generation families and retirees who have to work longer to take care of aging parents," and they "will also have to help clients who want the traditional retirement age of 65 or 66, but who have not saved for the longer retirement that longevity probably will provide," reports Karen Demasters. Investors Must Crack Fund Managers' Narratives (Investment News)  A fund manager's job is to tell a narrative about the numbers, and the adviser must "crack that narrative." However, very few advisers attempt to do so, which could lead to negative consequences. "The descriptions of process as crafted by the manager — and the illustrations used to visualize it — often find their way into due-diligence reports and the like without being seriously vetted in any way. ... Cutting and pasting content is easy — but in the process you cut and paste your tacit approval of the manager's story," writes Tom Brakke. The best evaluations, writes Brakke, are those that expose shortcomings, instead of just retelling the exact story from the fund managers. China's New Trading Link Is A Bright Light (Charles Schwab) China is opening the "Stock Connect," a link between the Shanghai and Hong Kong stock exchanges, which could lead to opportunities for investors. "The opening of Chinese stock markets supports our positive view on China. We believe the Chinese government is pursuing reforms that could temporarily slow the economy but will create more sustainable and higher-quality growth over time," writes Michelle Gibley. Right now investors are nervous about China, especially as economic growth is slowing. However, "we believe policymakers can successfully transition away from debt-led investment toward a market-based economy," which will in turn attract investors, writes Gibley. Troubled Brokers Prey On The Elderly (The Wall Street Journal) The Wall Street Journal investigated the records of 550,000 stockbrokers and found that there are 16 US hot spots where troubled brokers are more likely to be found. The biggest areas included New York's Long Island, South Florida, areas around Detroit, Las Vegas, and California. One of the highest rates of troubled brokers was in Delray Beach, in Palm Beach Country, which is a "retirement haven." In fact, troubled brokers tend to cluster around communities that have large elderly populations. "The rate of households headed by people 65 and older with incomes over $100,000 was about 50% higher in the combined hot spots than the national average. Households with incomes in excess of $100,00 in hot spots were about 22% more likely to be headed by people 65 and older than households nationally," report Jean Eaglesham and Rob Barry. FREE AppDownload
Nike just debuted this ad – the first one of a series promoting its new Hyperwarm line – featuring actor Chris O'Dowd from "Girls" and "Bridesmaids" as well as football stars Aaron Rodgers and Jordy Nelson, soccer players Clint Dempsey and Brad Evans, distance runner Mary Cain, figure skater Gracie Gold, and snowboarder Johnnie Paxson. The ad was produced by the advertising agency, Wieden+Kennedy, that made the 25th anniversary ad for the "Just Do It" campaign last year.  Video courtesy of Nike
NEW YORK (Reuters) - JPMorgan on Monday downgraded its view of the U.S. stock market, reversing its overweight call to underweight as valuations relative to Europe had "turned outright expensive." The firm upgraded the euro zone to overweight from underweight, believing the region "is due a period of outperformance vs the U.S.," with European banks primed to support the region. While Europe is expected to perform better than the U.S. equity market, JPMorgan wrote that it expects U.S. stocks to continue scaling new highs, as they have throughout the year. The S&amp;P 500 has gained 10.2 percent thus far in 2014, compared with gains of 2.2 percent for the FTSEurofirst 300 index of top European shares. That lag means that Europe "is now trading at a lower price relative than the one recorded at the point of peak stress in [2012], when Eurozone breakup was almost the base case," JPMorgan wrote. It said the level of euro zone earnings relative to that of U.S. companies "has never been as depressed as it is today. The return on equity "differential between the two regions is at the top of its historical range, and it should start to normalize from here. We note that the [earnings per share] revisions in the U.S. are not much better than those in Eurozone anymore – the gap is closing." Banks in Europe have weighed on the region throughout the year, but the group may be poised to advance, JPMorgan wrote. "German loan growth has already turned outright positive," the broker said in a note to clients. "The fact that stress tests are finally behind us should allow the banks to be more supportive of the economy."   (Reporting by Ryan Vlastelica; Editing by Bernadette Baum) FREE AppDownload
Pixabay via Google ImagesThe cost of oil affects consumers and businesses in a variety of ways. "Lower oil prices typically affect companies through either (or both) lower input costs or increased consumer spending," Goldman Sachs' David Kostin said. "We estimate that a $10 per bbl move in crude oil or $0.25/gallon move in gasoline prices impact discretionary cash flow by 30-40 bps, similar to about 1/3 point shift in the unemployment rate or 25 bps move in disposable personal income." So for consumers, plunging oil prices are a good thing. For S&amp;P 500 companies, a $10 drop in the price of Brent crude per barrel would increase 2015 earnings per share (EPS) by about $2 to $124 per share, Kostin wrote. This is based on a projection that Brent will average $84 per barrel next year. Goldman's consumer equity research analysts compiled this table that shows the effect of lower oil on earnings in various retail sectors and companies within them that could benefit the most. Goldman SachsBrent crude oil has fallen 33% per barrel since June, while West Texas Intermediate crude has declined by 30% per barrel. Goldman sees the price of oil falling even further in the medium-term because of increased production by non-OPEC countries and the American shale boom. 
We open this commentary with a link to the October 31 policy statement of the Government Pension Investment Fund of Japan. Any serious investor who has not read it is invited to go to  this link right now. Simply put, one of the G4 has made its position clear with great transparency. The Pension Fund of Japan is going to raise its allocation to stocks, both domestically and internationally. It is going to reduce its allocation to government bonds denominated in its own currency. Internally, that means selling JGBs and buying an ETF that comprises 400 stocks. Meanwhile, the Bank of Japan will maintain a policy of very low interest rates so that the reallocation does not disrupt Japanese financial markets. For Japanese investors this is very bullish. Japanese stocks are headed higher – maybe a lot higher.  The recent recession news means that this policy will be in place even longer and more robustly than expected just one week ago. The other three in the G4 include the United Kingdom, where there is no interest-rate policy change (still stimulative) and where the focus of central bank policy is to acquire British pound-denominated government debt at a forecasted rate. The Bank of England will not buy stocks, nor will it acquire foreign-denominated debt. Also in the G4 is the US.  Our Federal Reserve has reached the end of tapering and is engaged in a rolling replacement of maturing assets. The Fed holds only US government securities. It has shifted the maturity of its holdings over the last 6 years. Its assets are now at duration of about 5.5 years. They were near 2 years at the start of the financial crisis. If one compares total available marketable federal debt and the Fed’s holdings, the conclusion is that any increase in holdings now might actually be disruptive to markets since the Fed holds so much already.  We believe the Fed is done with QE unless there is some truly global calamity. Since the onset of the financial crisis, the Fed has quintupled its holdings and tripled their duration. It will take years to unwind the cumulative effects of QE1, QE2, and QE3. The Fed is now expected to take most of the coming year to refine its working programs and tools and then begin a gradual program of rate normalization. Our guesstimate of the Fed’s policy interest rate one year from today is somewhere close to 0.5%, a slight increase from the present range of 0.0% to 0.25%. Even the structure of that forthcoming policy rate is still a subject of discussion. The Fed will not buy stocks. Nor will it buy foreign-denominated assets. Let’s get to the last of the G4. The European Central Bank remains an enigma. It has yet to formulate a policy that is credible or understandable. It demonstrates internal division. And it looks at the economic landscape of the Eurozone and sees inflation near zero and growth elusive. The ECB cannot even find a way to buy government debt, let alone other assets. It has not resolved how to deal with the credit structures of some of its weaker banks and member countries. All we know is that the ECB says it wants to expand its holdings of assets to three trillion euros. Details remain to be seen, let alone implemented. And the policy interest rate is negative, marginally disruptive, and cannot go any lower, by the ECB’s own admission. For financial markets the next year is easy to forecast. All four central banks will keep their short-term policy interest rates below 1%. Their GDP-weighted average will be below 0.5%. Their risk-free benchmark government bond rate will also remain quite low. Note that in the Eurozone the market differentiates between risk-free, as in Germany, and higher-risk, as in Greece. There is a risk hierarchy in the Eurozone. Note that the US offers the highest G4 bond rate, at less than 2.5% on 10-year risk-free debt. Also note that Japan has raised the allocation that can be used to purchase US Treasury notes.  In this present global scenario, it is hard to see the US ten-year treasury yield much higher. It is also hard to see other US dollar-denominated high-grade bond interest rates rising a lot under this scenario, even if the US economy gains some strength. Corporate borrowers are really flush with cash.  And also note that the amount of cash they hold outside the US in foreign subsidiaries of US corporations ($2.1 trillion) now exceeds their internal US dollar holdings of cash ($1.9 trillion). (Hat tip to Capitol Economics.) Were Congress to pass repatriation tax relief as it did in 2004, the amount of transfer into the US would be huge. Capitol Economics notes that the 2004 legislation resulted in about 3% of GDP being repatriated in that one-year window and that most of it was used “to fund dividend payouts and share buybacks rather than boost investments.”  The latest estimate is that a repatriation tax relief bill would have four times the impact today than it did in 2004. Imagine the cash flow into an infrastructure-rebuilding program for America if Congress were to allow it through repatriation tax relief funding. But hope is not a strategy, and politicians maintain their despicable reputations for reasons that the rest of us understand only too well.  They would rather fight for years over a pipeline than rebuild all the roads, bridges, schools, etc. in our country. So let’s summarize. One of the G4 is acting bullishly for US stocks and for US bonds as well as bullishly for its own markets. Another is trying to figure out how to be more stimulative. A third is maintaining its stimulative policy at a predictable pace. And the fourth is at neutral.  We maintain our bullish stance on equities. We are using a $130 earnings estimate for the S&amp;P 500 Index in 2015. That is the center point of a range of 123 to 137. We may be a little high at $130 but not by very much if the US economy continues its gradual, low inflation growth track.  Our end of decade target for the S&amp;P 500 Index is a range between 2600 and 3000.  Several years ago we projected that the S&amp;P would reach 2000.  That is becoming an ancient milestone. Cumberland remains fully invested in our US ETF strategy. Our other ETF strategies (we have four of them) are nearly fully invested.  We use each of these four strategies in separate account management only. Our bond strategies keep some hedges in place or are using a barbell.  Why?  We expect that the very low interest-rate period is coming to an end over the next year or two. We do not know when, nor is it easy to forecast that timing. This article originally appeared at Cumberland Advisors.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
The Economist, traditionally a pro-capitalism, pro-business publication, is now blaming bankers for defaming the good name of capitalism. In a Saturday commentary about capitalism's increasingly negative reputation, the classical liberal magazine said that nearly half of Americans had a less-than-positive view of the term and associated it with financial capitalism and greedy banks. It's almost reminiscent of the 2011 OWS movement, which led protestors to occupy Zuccotti Park and other financial districts for months, denouncing big banks and the government's leniency toward them. While most people actually do like the underlying elements of capitalism — competition, private property — those things no longer come to mind when they think of capitalism, the article said. "In the past 30 years or so, capitalism has become associated less with businesses operating in a competitive market, and more with the banking sector. ... Financial capitalism is inherently less appealing. It produces not iPads, but complex structured products with obscure acronyms. And when governments and central banks are forced to step in to rescue the titans of finance, the idea of a free market also goes out the window. A system that privatises profits and nationalises losses is impossible to justify." Yup, that's The Economist. The same magazine that backed the Iraq and Afghanistan wars and endorsed, at various points, Margaret Thatcher, Ronald Reagan, and George W. Bush. The same Economist whose conservative roots run so deep that it opposed providing food aid during the Irish Potato Famine, in which 1 million people starved to death. Now they're concerned that a general aversion to the idea of capitalism will lead voters to back harmful, anti-business politicians. And this, they say, is all the doing of the big bad guys on Wall Street: "Somehow, capitalism, for want of a better word, must be rescued from the bankers." Harsh. FREE AppDownload
The MacallanThe last time The Macallan released a limited edition scotch whisky (sold only at its distillery in Speyside, Scotland) the line outside the door was long enough to disrupt the distillery's day to day activities. "The workers were both amused and a little annoyed because it made it difficult for them to get to work in the morning," said Craig Bridger, The Macallan's brand ambassador. It was alarming how quickly the release sold out.  This latest release, The Macallan Rare Cask, will only be sold in the United States, so Speyside's distillers are free to go about their business in peace. Lucky for them, and lucky for us. Instead, all the chaos will ensue around liquor stories down by Wall Street and up to Midtown. Here's why. What makes The Macallan Rare Cask so rare goes back to the casks The Macallan uses to age the whisky, Bridger explained. A team led by The Macallan's master distiller goes to Spain pick the sherry casks — made of oak, of course. That takes 24 months. Those casks are "seasoned" sherry for 18 months, are then dried and sent to Scotland.  "This is really an homage to our wood program," said Bridger. "We're one of a small handful of whisky producers, and certainly the biggest one, that doesn't use artificial coloring." That's right, he said "wood program." They even have a Master of Wood. His name is Stuart MacPherson, in case you were wondering. After the team finds 100 casks that are up to snuff, they fill them with some The Macallan's aging stock.  Only the whisky in casks that survive that test get bottled. Inside the bottle is a scotch that manages that starts out with a bold, spicy taste and leaves your tongue with a light citrus taste. Share this only if you must. FREE AppDownload
The era of $100/barrel oil is over, and that's great for most Americans. Last week, RBC Capital Markets put out a note estimating that the average American household will save around $42 per month on gas over the next year if prices stay as low as they currently are. This is particularly good for low-income Americans. It's basically a tax cut, says Deutsche Bank's chief US economist Joe LaVorgna. "If the price is falling, it’s a tax cut in that you don’t have to pay for other things," LaVorgna said. "If you are on a fixed income or a student or a lower wage worker, that's money in your pocket." If you are living paycheck-to-paycheck with very little savings, this is a much bigger deal than if you had a little bit of cushion you could dip into when gas prices went up a few years ago.  And this isn't just about gas prices, says LaVorgna. It also will affect heating and cooling prices. "It won't just be gas, energy prices are so highly correlated that people are going to get some benefit this winter."  Where will that extra money go? "If I had a guess i would think restaurants and retailers would probably benefit the most," LaVorgna said. The people receiving this energy price relief are more likely to spend than save. This is great news for an economy that's largely driven by personal consumption. FREE AppDownload
The exciting thing about smartwatches is that most smartwatch operating systems now available offer users the ability to not only change their watch faces, but to also upload customized ones. A website called FaceRepo.com (Face Repository) is one of several places where people can browse free watch dial faces (and later paid ones, I am sure) for Android Wear-based smartwatches like the Moto 360, Samsung Gear, LG G, and many other upcoming Android Wear operating system-based devices. While the operating system does come with a few watch dials, the beauty for wearers is the amazing customization features that they offer. Even though smartwatch adoption is still very limited among consumers, I was thrilled to see the incredible variety as well as creativity that you'll find on FaceRepo when it comes to the user-generated watch Android Wear smartwatch dials available for free download. What immediately came to mind was a time, perhaps a decade or more ago, when mobile phones began to really allow for user customization. In addition to basic things like ring tones, people began to wildly personalize their mobile phones with unique backgrounds and other "skins" based on a range of things that they liked. The practice has become far less common these days, even though people do often set custom smartphone backgrounds. Though, tinkering enthusiasts will always find ways of making their devices their own. What makes things particularly interesting about customizing the look of the dial on a smartwatch is that you enter an area of both artistic and functional creativity.A Blog To Watch Several years ago, a company called Slyde (hands-on review here) was a bit ahead of its time in offering a luxury digital watch designed to have swappable "engines." These were essentially skins that allowed you to have a custom look to the various available screens which offers functionality like the time, calendars, world time indicators, etc... The promise by Slyde was that in a single device, you could have a rich assortment of variety in the way time was displayed, but not be bogged down by traditional considerations of the limitations of a mechanical watch. With the advent of the smartwatch era, the promise of Slyde will now become much more mainstream. People can explore the wonderful diversity of watch dials on an inexpensive device and switch at will without any major complexity or cost. What has made watch dials unique over the last 200 years or so is that, while there are tried and true ways of indicating the time and other corollary information on a watch dial, designers, for whatever reason, desire to explore new ways of indicating information. This creative drive has helped us experience a wonderfully diverse universe of watch designs - most of which are designed to do the exact same thing. With user-customizable smartwatches now increasingly available, the democratization of watch dial variety is here. A Blog To Watch Many of the most popular watch faces on FaceRepo are actually reproductions of existing mechanical watches from both popular, and sometimes niche brands. That latter element is particularly interesting to me, and it is an indication of how deeply mechanical watches have been able to penetrate the "nerd culture" (which I am a proud member of).  Therefore, in addition to all the Rolex, Omega, Patek Philippe, TAG Heuer, Bell &amp; Ross, Bulova, and other mainstream brands who have dials made in their "honor," you see dials based on brands like Xemex, Bremont, MIH, A. Lange &amp; Sohne, and many more. It is truly inspiring to see that technically proficient mechanical watch lovers have translated their passion into a hobby for creating their favorite dials for use on smartwatches. Let's be clear that none of these watch brand dials are official. Some might even technically be infringements of IP rights, but brands would be unwise to pursue legal action against fans who've taken the time to digitize their favorite Omega or other dial for use on their Android Wear smartwatch. The smart Swiss watch brands know that this is more or less free advertising, and in the future, I am sure many will offer official apps that allow fans to experiment with the look of their watch dials before making purchase decisions.A Blog To Watch Some watch brands, however, might feel differently, and there are bound to be some conflicts between rights holders and smartwatch dial makers. There are two legitimate complaints that I can foresee a major watch brand having in regard to creating smartwatch versions of their watch dials - whether they create it or someone else does in an unofficial manner. In fact, I've spoken to several brands about this, and while some are bullish about the idea of having their dials on digital screens, others feel that doing so might diminish the value of their brands. Their concern, first and foremost, is that a flat digital version of their dials will never come close to looking like the "real thing," and that consumer might never understand what they are missing. More practically, I think their second concern is a bit more valid. It is that unofficial "replicas" of their dials in digital form might not be "perfect," and will confuse people when it comes to knowing what their dials actually look like or how their watches perform. True enough, a survey of the many watch faces on FaceRepo finds many homages to actual watches that are just plain wrong. Sometimes, the design has included various enhancements to build upon the ability for a smartwatch to indicate lots of useful information, such as calendar and weather data. Other times, these homage Android Wear smartwatch dials aren't even of "real" watches but of fakes. Yes, you can find Android Wear watch faces inspired by fake versions of real watches. However, I think the value to the watch industry of participating in the smartwatch watch face game outweighs the potential risks. First of all, no one will mistake a smartwatch for a real mechanical watch. Second, the positive name recognition and branding benefits of having limitless consumers "try before they buy" is potentially priceless.A Blog To Watch  What is perhaps even more interesting than all the "actual" watch dials people transform into faces for Android Wear devices are all the original ones. Dials come in both round and square variants (because smartwatches come with both round and square dials) and are either fantasy creations or unique dials which showcase the creative approach by a new generation of information display designers.  This approach to creating a display meant to offer both information as well as emotion or lifestyle is nothing new, but being able to do so specifically for a watch face is still pretty novel. What I find interesting is how people adapt familiar things into displays for the time (and other data) borrowed from popular science fiction franchises, consumer products, sports teams, movies, and other items of importance in pop culture. For every 20 watch faces an eager young designer produces, there there are perhaps one or two good ones, but that is OK. You must value the heedless experimentation inevitable in a new segment. What a lot of designers actually do is take existing pictures of watches and carefully cut out components like the hands in order to produce individual elements that live over software meant to display the time, etc... It is both an artistic and scientific task, and it isn't always done perfectly. We are still in the wild west when it comes to the independent design of dials for smartwatches.A Blog To Watch Perhaps the most thrilling element of all is that smartwatch may very well usher in a new golden age for the wrist watch. Timepiece enthusiasts who frequent places like aBlogtoWatch aren't who I am referring to, but rather, the masses who have abandoned the wrist watch as soon as it was no longer as useful and practical as it once was, starting about 15 to 20 years ago. The proliferation of the smartwatch has the potential to change that, as useful connected devices on our wrists prove more than mere toys, but bona fide necessities that many people agree they don't want to live without; very much like they did with the mobile phone back in the 1990s. I am quite excited to see more and more quality Android Wear and other smartwatch devices such as the Apple Watch enter the market and offer consumers a variety of choice when it comes to what they want to see when the screens of their smartwatches are activated. It will also be a huge business opportunity for those who are able to produce the best watch faces as well as traditional watch brands that want to make their distinctive designs as popular as possible. Perhaps just as interesting is the promise of automated variety in your smartwatch dials. For instance a new Android Wear app called "FaceLift" (still in beta testing at the time of writing) automatically changes the watch face on your smartwatch device without having to go in there and change the settings. With apps like FaceLift - and the rest that will follow - many people will have the ability to enjoy a great variety of styles on their wrist without having to do anything extra. FREE AppDownload
(Reuters) - Mark Pincus, the founder of video game company Zynga Inc, must face a lawsuit alleging he unfairly benefited by selling $192 million of stock in 2012 when other early investors were under a lockup agreement, according to a court ruling. The creator of FarmVille had asked the Delaware Court of Chancery to dismiss a lawsuit that alleged Pincus and other Zynga directors breached their duty of loyalty to shareholders by waiving the lockup for select investors. Lockup agreements control the supply of stock available for trading. Zynga barred investors who obtained their stock prior to the company's initial public offering, in December 2011, from selling until May 28, 2012. However, in March 2012 Zynga's board waived the lockup for Pincus and four other directors, allowing them to sell stock almost two months earlier than originally expected, which the lawsuit alleged was worth $100 million. "It is reasonably conceivable that the benefit the director defendants received in the lockup restructuring was not entirely fair," Judge Andre Bouchard wrote in a 35-page ruling that was published Friday. The ruling allows the plaintiff, shareholder Wendy Lee, to seek documents and take depositions. Zynga spokeswoman Michelle Kramer and Lee's attorney, Evan Wohl of Wohl &amp; Fruchter, declined to comment. Pincus and the four other directors sold their stock in Zynga's April 2012 secondary stock offering at $12 per share, nearly double the stock's price when the lockup eventually expired, according to Bouchard's 35-page opinion. On Monday, Zynga was down about 3.8 percent at $2.67 in midday trade on Nasdaq. Zynga argued that the lawsuit should be dismissed because Pincus and the other defendants agreed to sell only 20 percent of their holdings, while putting the remainder of their Zynga stock under an extended staggered lockup through July and August of 2012. The defendants also argued that waiving the lockup did not harm Lee or other shareholders because it did not change the lockup expiration for them. Bouchard dismissed claims that Goldman Sachs &amp; Co and Morgan Stanley aided the breach of fiduciary duty by consenting to the lockup waiver and collecting $10 million in fees from the secondary offering. In addition to Pincus, the lawsuit names as defendants the members of the Zynga board in 2012 when the lockup agreement was waived. The case is Wendy Lee v Mark Pincus et al, Delaware Court of Chancery, No. 8458 (Reporting by Tom Hals in Wilmington, Delaware; Editing by Dan Grebler) FREE AppDownload
Casual dining restaurants' customers are struggling to attract young customers — and that's a big problem for business. While customers at so-called "fast casual" chains like Chipotle, Panera Bread, and Five Guys are entering peak spending years, the clientele at casual dining establishments is getting older, according to a recent report by Morgan Stanley.  Casual dining restaurants like Olive Garden, LongHorn, Red Lobster, and Outback built their businesses around Baby Boomers' preferences.  These chains enjoyed "robust growth" until the early 2000s because Boomers were in peak spending years, Morgan Stanley's analysts write.  Today, the 50-to-68-year-olds are aging — and business is beginning to contract for casual dining chains. For instance, the "early-bird special" mentality of Red Lobster's customers is keeping the seafood chain from competing with younger, hipper brands, writes Justin Bachman at Bloomberg Businessweek.  Red Lobster "attracts an oversize share of older diners who don’t eat out frequently, while younger and spendier patrons eat their fish at more upscale restaurants — places that can cover rising costs better," Bachman writes.  Red Lobster released a new menu to attract a younger crowd.  Morgan Stanley Meanwhile, customers are eating out less in general.  The average American goes out to dinner 74 times a year, The Washington Post's Wonkblog reports, citing the consumer research firm NPD Group. That's the lowest reading in three decades.  Morgan Stanley Millennials prefer to spend their money on organic and high-quality foods rather than the experience of sitting down at a traditional restaurant. The brands expected to gain the most from this trend are Chipotle, Buffalo Wild Wings, and Starbucks, according to Morgan Stanley.  All of these chains have a strong millennial customer base.  While the outlook for casual dining is gloomy, Morgan Stanley cites a few chains that have successfully attracted a younger clientele.  The Cheesecake Factory, Red Robin, and Chili's have a younger-skewing demographic, according to the analysts. FREE AppDownload
Citi's Tobias Levkovich and his equity strategy were recently in Asia for client meetings.  And the big question clients asked: why aren't you more bullish on US stocks? Currently, Levkovich sees limited upside for US stocks through the end of the year, and has a 2,200 year-end target for 2015, but clients in Asia saw this target as being too limited and conservative.  "A 10% total return in the next 13-14 months was perceived as being too conservative by many even as our year-end target is in line with mean and median top-down forecasts," Levkovich writes. "Interestingly, several clients suggested that our outlook was far below the bullishness expressed by other even when our numbers are pretty much well within the Street's consensus." Levkovich chalks up some of this fervent bullishness from foreign investors on the US market to more challenged domestic economies and the unexpected strength witnessed in the S&amp;P 500 this year. As we've highlighted recently, back in the beginning of the year, only one Wall Street strategist highlighted by Business Insider saw the S&amp;P 500 rising to its current level of more than 2,030.  Given the bullishness of Citi's Asian clients, Levkovich writes that, "there is evidence of a 'chasing the tape' mentality."  And another way some might look at the fervent bullishness of foreign investors on US stocks is that in a global economic environment where yields are low all around the world and economic growth appears just okay, the US stock market could become the "best house in a bad neighborhood." But if you're managing a mutual fund or a pension fund, you likely have a mandate to allocate those dollars somewhere.  Another takeaway from Levkovich's meetings was that fund managers in Asia were, "very positive on the Pharma/Biotech industry group, pushing back hard on our concerns while questions about technology names were few and far between." And regarding biotech valuations, Levkovich noted that looking at the sector's trailing earnings and valuation metrics "raise questions about performance potential... but many want explain it away suggesting that new paradigm shifts exists and such thinking is always worrying to us." On the heels of early 2014's huge selloff in biotech stocks, it is a curious takeaway that foreign investors look at this sector — and the stock market more broadly — are so ardently bullish.  FREE AppDownload
Trying to figure out which docking station you need can be extremely frustrating. Some won't sync with your phone model, while others are too clunky. So we've done the hard work for you. Here is Insider Picks' list of 10 great docking stations. Whether you're looking for one that doesn't take up a lot of room, or one that can hold all your tech accessories — we have it here. Bamboo Multi Device Charging Station$35.00 (+ $7.99 shipping) | Amazon Amazon Rating: 4 StarsYou can read reviews here.   EasyAcc Black Leather Multiple Device Charging Station Dock$59.99 $38.99 | Amazon (Prime Eligible) Amazon Rating: 4.5 StarsYou can read reviews here.   Avantree Powerhouse Universal Multi- device USB Desktop Charging Station $49.99 | Amazon (Prime Eligible)  Amazon Rating: 4.5 StarsYou can read reviews here.   Cable Matters SuperSpeed USB 3.0 Universal Docking Station$189.99 $89.99 | Amazon (Prime Eligible) Amazon Amazon Rating: 4 StarsYou can read reviews here.     Plugable UD-3000 USB 3.0 SuperSpeed Universal Docking Station $117.95 $89.00 | Amazon (Prime Eligible) Amazon Amazon Rating: 4.5 StarsYou can read reviews here. Pyle Home PIDOCK 1 $57.99 $21.40 | Amazon (Prime Eligible) Amazon Amazon Rating: 3.5 StarsYou can read reviews here.   Philips DC390/37 Dual-Docking 30-Pin Speak Dock $149.99 $59.99 | Amazon (Prime Eligible) Amazon Amazon Rating: 4 StarsYou can read reviews here.   Philips AJ7035D/37 Aluminum Docking System $99.99 $49.95 | Amazon (Prime Eligible) Amazon Amazon Rating: 4 StarsYou can read reviews here.   LuguLake Portable Bluetooth Speaker$89.99 $37.99 | Amazon (Prime Eligible) Amazon Amazon Rating: 4.5 StarsYou can read reviews here.   Diamond Multimedia Ultra Dock$200.00 $97.50 | Amazon Amazon Amazon Rating: 3.5 StarsYou can read reviews here. Did we miss anything? Let us know in the comments. Disclosure: This post is brought to you by Business Insider's Insider Picks team. We aim to highlight products and services you might find interesting, and if you buy them, we may get a small share of the revenue from the sale. This is not an advertiser sponsored post and we operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback.Have something you think we should know about? Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com. FREE AppDownload
New York Times columnist and Princeton economist Paul Krugman spoke with our own Henry Blodget about a range of topics. And then Henry asked him about the super rich in America. Here are Krugman's thoughts on "extreme" wealth and the role of luck. Produced by Alex Kuzoian. Additional camera by Graham Flanagan and Devan Joseph. Follow BI Video: On Twitter
Thomson ReutersScaffolding is seen outside the NASDAQ MarketSite in Times Square in New York(Reuters) - Nasdaq OMX Group  on Monday named 14 stocks that will take part in the exchange operator's program to test the effects of lowering its exchange fees and rebates, beginning on Feb. 2 and lasting at least four months. The amended pricing program could help address concerns that high exchange fees and rebates cause distortions in the market as traders seek to avoid the fees and collect the rebates. The fee for orders to immediately buy any of the stocks in the program through Nasdaq will drop to 5 cents per 100 shares, from 30 cents per 100 shares, Nasdaq said in a note to traders. Rebates on those stocks for resting orders sent to the exchange will fall to 2 cents per 100 shares, 4 cents per 100 shares, or in some cases be dropped all together, depending on the type of order. Rebates are currently similar in size to exchange fees. Exchanges have been losing market share to broker-run alternative trading systems, including "dark pools," partly as brokers seek to avoid high exchange fees. Nearly 40 percent of all U.S. stock trades, including almost all retail orders that go through online brokerages, now happen away from exchanges, up from around 16 percent six years ago. There are seven Nasdaq-listed stocks and seven New York Stock Exchange-listed stocks in the amended-pricing program. The Nasdaq-listed stocks are American Airlines , Avanir Pharmaceuticals Inc , FireEye Inc , GoPro Inc , Groupon Inc , Sirius XM Holdings Inc , and Zynga Inc . The NYSE-listed stocks are Bank of America Corp , General Electric Co , Kinder Morgan Inc , Rite Aid Corp , Transocean Ltd , Sprint Corp , and Twitter Inc . Nasdaq said it would periodically make statistics available on how the stocks in the program trade on its exchange, including data on market share, displayed liquidity, effective spreads, and volatility. The shares also trade on other exchanges, such as BATS Global Markets and Intercontinental Exchange's  NYSE unit, which are not part of the Nasdaq initiative.  (Reporting by John McCrank in New York; Editing by Bernadette Baum) FREE AppDownload
Deutsche Bank's Torsten Slok thinks this could be the best ever holiday season for retail sales.  Sloks points to recent labor market data. Because hiring for the holiday season is generally done in October, it can be a good way to predict how retailers are feeling about sales for the final quarter of the year.  This particular chart, sent out in a research note this morning, comes from adding together employment growth in eight different retail sectors: furniture, electronics, personal care, clothing, sporting goods, general merchandise stores, miscellaneous store retailers (e.g., florists, office supply stores, gift shops, and pet shops), and non-store retailers (e.g., online shopping and mail-order houses, vending machine operators, and direct store establishments). Last year, retail sales rose 2.7% over 2012 numbers.  FREE AppDownload
As it turns out, the on-going sanctions against Russia by the US and the eurozone might actually be good for the economy, Russian President Vladimir Putin told the German TV news station ARD. "True, there are pluses because, let's say, those restrictions on the acquisition of certain goods in the West, in Europe, in the States are introduced for some Russian companies — this forces us to produce that good ourselves," Putin told ARD. "This comfortable life where we thought only about producing more oil and gas, and buying everything else, is in the past," he added. In other words, Putin stated that the sanctions will force the Russian economy to evolve past its dependence on the oil and gas industries. Earlier this year, the US and the EU imposed a series of sanctions on finance, energy and defense sectors in Russia. The sanctions were instituted in an effort to further isolate Russia politically and economically, and in particular, to hurt the "areas of importance to President Putin and those close to him," according to President Obama. The Russian economy has taken a serious beating following the sanctions. For starters, the ruble is now in free fall and inflation is way above target. Additionally, falling oil prices have put immense pressure on the economy. Last week, Putin expressed a more pessimistic take regarding these sanctions: "[The sanctions are] harmful, and of course, they cause damage to us, but they're also harmful to them — because they undermine the entire system of economic relations. I really hope, I assume, that this will ultimately be understood and will remain in the past." Despite the economic turmoil, Putin told ARD that the Russian economy is still growing. "Regarding growth. This year we saw a modest growth, but it was still growth — somewhere between 0.5 to 0.6 percent. Next year, we plan to grow by 1.2 percent, and then — 2.3 percent the next year — 3 percent growth. In general, these aren't the numbers we would like to see, but it's still growth, and we're confident that we will achieve these targets," Putin said. You can watch the whole interview in German here or in the original Russian here. FREE AppDownload
For months Bill Ackman has been pushing the pharmaceutical company Allergan to submit to a hostile takeover by fellow pharma company Valeant.  Ackman owns almost 10% of Allergan, and almost 40% of his hedge fund Pershing Square is in the company. But now the deal Ackman was pushing for is over, as Allergan will merge with another company, Actavis, in a $66 billion deal. The effort that Ackman undertook by purchasing Allergan shares back in February has been thwarted. And after everything that happened — three bids for Allergan, multiple court appearances, accusations of insider trading — you would think that Bill Ackman might be having a rough Monday morning.  But no. No way. As the deal Ackman pushed for fell apart, he also collected $2.28 billion. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a beautiful example of Wall Street's famous "heads I win, tails you lose." From the beginning of the Valeant-Allergan deal, critics of Valeant's business model said that the company lacked organic growth, that it depended on aggressive acquisition accounting to make its balance sheets look healthy, that once it acquires a company it zaps the company's R&amp;D budget until it finds its next host. Actavis' CEO Brent Saunders addressed this argument head on in a CNBC interview after the Actavis-Allergan merger was announced.  "Our business didn't need ... acquisitions; we have strong organic growth," he said. Very subtle. Allergan made the "no organic growth" argument again and again as it rejected Valeant and Ackman's advances. And short seller Jim Chanos has been public about his short position in Valeant for months. He even sent Ackman his research on Valeant before Ackman and Valeant announced their intention with Allergan.  It's important to remember that Ackman doesn't own Valeant at all — he was only helping the company to finance its deal. Ackman's genius is that he owns Valeant's targets. As of last week he also owns almost 10% of Zoetis — perhaps another potential target for Valeant. Zoetis' stock went up almost 2% after Allergan's deal was announced. So in any event, Bill Ackman wins. He helps Valeant approach its target. The target resists. Valeant ups its bid. The target resists more, and it finds another company to buy it. The new company makes an offer. Ackman, who has invested in the target, makes money either way. This is why Andrew Ross Sorkin called Bill Ackman "too clever by half." Courtesy of BloombergThe SEC is still investigating whether Ackman and Valeant violated insider-trading rules when they joined forces to buy Allergan. A California judge ruled that the two parties had to change the language in their agreement to reflect that they were "co-bidders" for Allergan — that they intended to buy the company from the beginning of their relationship (that's where the insider-trading violation potentially comes in). If you believe what critics of Valeant's business have been saying, then you believe that Valeant must act immediately to acquire another target. That's what it needs to look healthy. And it means Bill Ackman will soon get another payday. FREE AppDownload
Melia Robinson/BIJulian Marchese. Julian Marchese was 9 years old when he made his first trade. In high school, he skipped class on Fed Days. When the Canadian finance wunderkind was just a teenager, he developed a quantitative, long-short equity strategy that runs on an automated basis on his computer. Investing his parents' money, he saw returns that would make any amateur day trader jealous. Now a freshman student at NYU's Stern School of Business, Marchese and a partner at Yale are trying to launch a hedge fund out of their dorm rooms. Somehow, Marchese makes juggling school work with a social life and fledgling career as a hedge fund manager look attainable by anyone.
Thomson ReutersFile photo of a woman holding an umbrella as she walks past a company logo of a Gucci boutique outside a shopping mall in central GuangzhouBy Astrid Wendlandt PARIS (Reuters) - Gucci holds the luxury spending downturn mainly responsible for its poor performance but the Italian fashion brand may also have itself to blame, suggesting it could be time to change strategy and hire fresh talent. Every major luxury goods maker has been hit by the worst spending slump in five years as concerns about economic growth and conflicts in the Middle East and Ukraine hampered demand from the Chinese, Russians and Europeans. Big brands have also been suffering from consumers' growing appetite for smaller, less widely distributed labels, particularly in key markets such as China, which was the luxury goods industry's main growth engine until 2012. "I think for some brands there is a saturation and a brand fatigue issue in certain markets like Asia," said Scilla Huang Sun who runs the Julius Baer Luxury Brands Fund. Gucci, Burberry and Louis Vuitton, part of industry leader LVMH , have all worked hard in the past three to five years to rebuild the aura of exclusivity they lost by going too mass market and milking the label too hard in the mid to late 2000s. The volume-based strategy made shareholders rich but also diluted the brand. Based on sales performance, some big fashion labels, such as Louis Vuitton or Hermes, appear to have done a better job than Gucci at rebuilding or supporting that exclusive image. Gucci's sales have been steadily declining over the past year while Louis Vuitton's revenues are still growing, albeit in low single digits, and Hermes -- which always kept volumes under control -- together with Burberry, are still enjoying sales growth of more than 10 percent. Prada could be the next victim of brand fatigue, having warned that it expected no sales growth this year. Prada was one of the brands that opened the most shops last year, leading analysts to wonder if it was not starting to be over-exposed. Analysts and investors say Gucci got rid of too many accessible items and on average, raised prices too much. They also mention lack of innovation, which affects brand desirability and ultimately investor sentiment and growth prospects. A spokeswoman for Gucci's parent Kering , which also owns Saint Laurent and Bottega Veneta, maintained it was "satisfied with Gucci's upscale strategy that is underway,” making reference to its third-quarter sales presentation.  PAST ICONS Gucci says it is pleased with how new products have been received. These include a $4,500 python backpack with bamboo handles, a central fixture of Gucci bags for decades. "You cannot just keep reviving past icons, you also need to have breakthrough innovation," Exane BNP Paribas luxury goods analyst Luca Solca said citing designer Hedi Slimane at Saint Laurent as a successful example. At Hermes, the most expensive European luxury stock -- trading at 27 times forward earnings while Kering is on 15 times and Louis Vuitton parent LVMH  on 18 times -- there is a ban on re-launching old classics. New designs and the rarity of its Kelly and Birkin bags have helped the brand retain its cachet. At Chanel, designer Karl Lagerfeld helps the brand preserve its edge by putting out six collections a year, which produce at least one best-selling item. Last season, it was a pair of $1,100 iridescent tweed sneakers that sold out. Nicolas Ghesquiere, the star designer hired by LVMH last year, recently created a new "V" logo for Louis Vuitton and an exclusive line of handbags costing more than 20,000 euros. Louis Vuitton also gained momentum last month with the opening of its art museum outside Paris designed by Frank Gehry and a limited bag collection created by celebrities such as shoe maker Christian Louboutin to mark its 160th anniversary. Louis Vuitton has benefited from new ideas and leadership, while Gucci has been run by chief executive Patrizio di Marco since 2009 and for most of the past decade by designer Frida Giannini, who is also now his partner and mother of his child. Some fashion critics say Gucci has been struggling to regain the sparkle and fashion authority it had when chief executive Domenico de Sole and designer Tom Ford ran it until 2004. "They lost something special when Tom left," said Tamara Mellon, the woman who built Jimmy Choo into a global luxury shoe brand and is now developing her own fashion brand. Gucci customers may also have been driven away by sharp price rises - more than 40 percent in the past four to five years -  sending them to more accessible luxury brands such as Michael Kors in the United States and Longchamp in France. Louis Vuitton also raised prices but more progressively and conducted a less radical shake-up of its product offering. Gucci has provided extensive details on the results of its upmarket strategy while Louis Vuitton has not. Rivals such as Mulberry and Lancel, part of Cartier owner Richemont, also saw sales plummet after raising prices too much. Gucci has also had to clean up its wholesale distribution network, affecting revenue, after department stores offered too many discounts, devaluing the brand. Louis Vuitton never does sales and has no wholesale account.  (Additional reporting by Pascale Denis in Paris; Editing by Anna Willard) FREE AppDownload
via ThrillistWhen it comes to fast food and specialty restaurants, many investors instinctively flock to Chipotle Mexican Grill (NYSE: CMG). There's good reason for this, of course, since Chipotle has had a great run over the past few years. But whether its amazing rally can continue is a separate question. At more than $670 per share, Chipotle holds a lofty valuation that should give investors pause. Growth investors see the company's stellar earnings results as reason to keep buying, but it's worth noting that Chipotle's tremendous growth may already be priced in to the valuation. Consider that Chipotle stock trades for 52 times earnings. In other words, if Chipotle's growth fails to meet its high expectations, as happened last quarter, the stock may perform poorly. That's why growth investors may want to consider a much smaller, cheaper, and less-followed company in the space, Popeyes Louisiana Kitchen (NASDAQ: PLKI). Most people know that traditional burgers and fries chains are having a hard time growing, because consumers may be getting bored with the same old fast-food menus. Popeyes offers a truly differentiated experience because of its "New Orleans" style menu that contains items like fried chicken and shrimp. This has kept the company's growth on track while others in the fast-food space struggle. According to Popeyes, $100 invested in its stock on Dec. 28, 2008, would have been worth $869 at the end of last year. That's a huge return over a five-year period. By comparison, an equal investment in the S&amp;P 500 Index would be worth $235 -- a satisfactory return, but nowhere near Popeyes. And Popeyes' stock is up 26% so far this year. Popeyes is growing sales and profitability simultaneously. Between 2011-2013, Popeyes grew total revenue by 33%. In addition, the company's margins expanded. Profit margin grew from 15% to 16.5% during this period. This demonstrates the power of the business, to not only increase sales due to growing store count, but also by expanding profitability at the same time. Both Chipotle and Popeyes are doing very well in the United States. Where Popeyes has a strong advantage is in the international markets. Chipotle has so far resisted the urge to meaningfully expand overseas, holding a tiny amount of international restaurants. Instead, Chipotle focused on its growth opportunities here in the United States. And while that decision has certainly worked out to its benefit, its future in the U.S. won't be nearly as lucrative as its past. That's because Chipotle has opened a large number of new stores all across the United States, which means that sooner or later, Chipotle's growth here is going to slow down. This is plain to see from Chipotle's recent earnings report. Part of the reason the stock sold off after that report was that the company gave a dour forecast for growth next year. In 2015, Chipotle management expects low-to-mid single digit same-restaurant growth on a percentage basis. That is a significant slowdown, and because of this, it may be time to consider overseas expansion. Popeyes began expanding into international markets long ago, wisely seeing the limit to domestic growth potential. The company franchises nearly 400 international restaurants, comprising roughly 20% of its total. There's room for growth, since Popeyes hasn't yet fully penetrated the premier emerging markets known as the BRIC nations: Brazil, Russia, India, and China. Approximately 55% of Popeyes' franchised international restaurants are located in Korea, Canada, and Turkey. And, Popeyes might even have an advantage as far as the domestic market is concerned. Like its international business, its U.S. operations are highly concentrated. According to Popeyes' annual report, 71% of its domestic franchised restaurants are located in just 11 states. There are several states in which Popeyes has no presence at all. Clearly, there's still strong growth potential here in the United States that could represent a catalyst. There is no doubt that Chipotle is a fantastic business. The problem with Chipotle comes purely from an investment perspective. Chipotle's future growth trajectory appears priced in to its aggressive valuation. When this happens, growth stocks often sell off even when they report outstanding results. Even though Chipotle's earnings grew 56% last quarter, the stock dropped 7% after reporting. Chipotle trades for 52 times trailing earnings and 38 times forward EPS estimates. By contrast, Popeyes trades for 30 times trailing earnings and 24 times forward EPS. Popeyes is just a $1 billion company by market capitalization, while Chipotle holds a $19 billion market value. Judging by these figures, it seems that Popeyes has more room to grow than Chipotle. The bottom line is that while Chipotle is a great company, it's much further along in its growth trajectory than Popeyes. Popeyes is just starting to gain traction, particularly in the emerging markets. As the company grows its restaurant count and acquires scale, strong earnings growth should follow due to high sales growth and margin expansion. That's why investors on the hunt for growth stocks should give Popeyes a closer look. Bob Ciura has no position in any stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool recommends Chipotle Mexican Grill. The Motley Fool owns shares of Chipotle Mexican Grill. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days. We Fools may not all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. FREE AppDownload
Merger talks between Hasbro and DreamWorks Animation have broken down, and now DreamWorks shares are getting smashed.  In early trade on Monday, DreamWorks shares were down as much as 15% to around $22, right about where the stock was on Thursday before talks regarding a potential merger were first reported.  Late Friday, a report from The Hollywood Reporter said that talks between Hasbro and DreamWorks Animation had broken down, with the publication citing the high price sought by DreamWorks CEO Jeffrey Katzenberg. Reports indicated Katzenberg was looking for a deal valuing DreamWorks at $30-$35 per share. Late last Wednesday, Deadline.com reported that the companies were in talks on a potential deal, though some in the analyst community were skeptical of the deal's logic and feasibility.  This is the second time in six weeks that reports circulated regarding a potential deal for DreamWorks, only for those reports to be promptly reversed. In late September, The Wall Street Journal reported that DreamWorks and Japanese conglomerate SoftBank were in potential merger talks, though less than two days after that initial report, the Journal said talks between the two sides had cooled. Those talks sent DreamWorks shares from about $22 to north of $28, but through early October DreamWorks shares lost all of their gains earned following the deal reports.  This time around, DreamWorks has forfeited its deal-report-related gains in just one day.  Google Finance FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ilya NaymushinRosneft oil. JAWS dropped in July when a group of Yukos shareholders won a $50 billion arbitration award--20 times the previous record--against Russia for expropriating the oil company in 2004. The Kremlin had until November 11th to appeal against the ruling, by a tribunal in The Hague, and did indeed do so. It continues to maintain that it was not bound by the energy treaty under which the claim was brought, because it had signed but not ratified it. Though Russia's chances of getting the ruling reversed seem slim, the appeal process could grind on for 10 years. Even so, GML, a holding company representing Russian shareholders of Yukos (except its founder, Mikhail Khodorkovsky, who gave up his interest in the firm), can start chasing Russia's assets in other countries by applying to their courts. It plans to start later this month in Britain, America, Germany, France and the Netherlands. The first targets will be "low-hanging fruit", such as state-owned art and buildings that are not used for strictly diplomatic purposes, says Tim Osborne, GML's executive director. Embassies, warships and other non-commercial sovereign assets are off-limits--though what is commercial and what is diplomatic can be a legal grey area. The juicier fruit will be harder to reach: payments to or from Russia that are routed through Western financial centres, and the foreign assets of firms that are owned or controlled by the state, such as Rosneft, the oil giant that subsumed Yukos, and Gazprom, another energy giant. The asset-hunters will have to convince the courts that these entities are alter egos of the government. It may help that both companies are among the targets of Western sanctions against Russia, and that the arbitration panel viewed Rosneft as an agent of the state in the expropriation. Such games of cat and mouse require formidable investigative firepower. GML has already spent $250m on lawyers and sleuths and is prepared to spend "as much again" in the asset-chasing phase, says Mr Osborne. He is confident the exercise will prove profitable, though the investors may recover far less than the full award. Even if assets prove difficult to freeze or seize, those pursuing them can make a real nuisance of themselves, if they have deep pockets and determination. Witness the discomfort Argentina has suffered, including having to be careful where it lands the presidential plane, because of hedge funds chasing full payment on its defaulted sovereign bonds. GML will also be aware of a successful precedent in Russia, albeit on a smaller scale. Franz Sedelmayer, a German businessman, won in arbitration after his security company was nationalised in 1994. He subsequently brought 140 cases against the Kremlin in Germany, France and Sweden. His attempts to seize Lufthansa's payments for flying over Russian territory, and Russian VAT refunds to Germany, both failed. But he has secured payment from the sale of flats and former trade-mission buildings in Sweden and Germany. In one case, Russia was forced to bid in an auction to hold on to its buildings. The trick, says Mr Sedelmayer, is to find properties used for both diplomatic and commercial purposes and to persuade courts to waive immunity on account of mixed use. Twenty years on, he is close to receiving the last of the EUR6m ($7.5m) he is owed. But GML "is in for quite a ride", he says. "Moscow has long had a won't-pay-anybody attitude. They like to take stuff for free. Their strategy is to appeal at every stage, and when the process is exhausted, to bring a new suit on the same grounds to take us back to square one. It's a circus." Click here to subscribe to The Economist FREE AppDownload
The Irish pharmaceutical company Actavis is buying Allergan for $219 per share in a cash and stock deal valued at $66 billion.  For months, Allergan has worked to fend off a hostile bid from the Canadian pharmaceutical company Valeant and activist investor Bill Ackman. All of Ackman and Valeant's offers had been rejected. The most recent bid for the Botox-maker was $53 billion. Even though Valeant was unsuccessful in its takeover attempt, Ackman is still getting a massive payout.  Ackman, who runs Pershing Square Capital, last held 28,878,538 shares of Allergan, according to his fund's most recent 13F filing. Since he first disclosed his stake back in April, shares of Allergan have surged.  According to our calculations, Ackman has made more than $2.28 billion on his position in Allergan. He started buying Allergan stock back in February, so it's probably even higher.  Ackman doesn't own any shares of Valeant.  Meanwhile, Ackman recently disclosed a large stake in the animal health company Zoetis. Zoetis is seen as a potential takeover target. Shares of Zoetis were trading up more than 2.10% on Monday.  FREE AppDownload
 October was no easy month for investors. A long-anticipated correction in equity markets finally happened, set off by the one-two-three punch of bad economic data in the euro zone, tensions in the Middle East, and heightened concerns that the U.S. Federal Reserve might tighten policy sooner than expected. The S&amp;P 500 dropped more than 5 percent during the week ending October 15, while the VIX volatility index nearly doubled. Investors are naturally wondering whether the bull market is over, or, at the very least, whether equities’ risk-reward ratio has become a little top-heavy. Credit Suisse says no. Despite the recent turmoil, equities remain the preferred asset class of the bank’s Private Banking and Wealth Management division. One reason: they’re cheaper than they were a few months ago. The market weakness in October pushed equity valuations back into neutral territory. Another: relatively speaking, they still look better than the alternatives. Setting aside capital appreciation, for example, simply consider the yield. Two-year U.S. Treasury bills currently pay just 0.53 percent, while the yield on 10-year notes is 2.33 percent. The average dividend yield for stocks in the Dow Jones Industrial Average? 2.69 percent. What’s more, bond yields aren’t headed much higher any time soon. “Bond yields are likely to stay lower than what most had anticipated,” Michael Strobaek, Global Chief Investment Officer at Credit Suisse’s Private Bank, said in a recent video. The greatest upside is to be found in Japanese and European equities, according to Gerald Moser, head of equity analysis at Credit Suisse’s Private Bank. While market jitters in Europe were driven by concerns about sluggish economic growth, Credit Suisse doesn’t believe Europe’s slowdown will tip the global economy back into recession. What’s more, European valuations have become more favorable since the selloff that sent the Euro STOXX 50 index tumbling 11 percent in the month ending October 16. European and Japanese equities are also getting a boost from more aggressive monetary stimulus programs that aim to encourage lending. The Bank of Japan announced in late October that it would buy more government debt, while the European Central Bank said in September that it was ready to start purchasing asset-backed securities and covered bonds. Finally, export-focused European and Japanese companies – and their stocks — are aided by a strong dollar. The Fed is expected to raise rates next year while borrowing costs in Europe and Japan remain near zero. All other things being equal, the dollar should continue to appreciate. And that brings us to the U.S., the only major developed economy showing promising signs of growth. That fact in itself is supportive of U.S. equities, as was third quarter earnings season, which yielded the strongest ratio of companies beating earnings expectations since the fourth quarter of 2009. Among S&amp;P 500 stocks, 80 percent of companies reporting exceeded estimates, significantly higher than the long-term average of 69 percent, according to Credit Suisse. Led by strong showings in the health care and financial sectors, earnings surprised by 5.2 percent, compared with a 10-year average of 4.4 percent. The improving economy should continue to act at a tailwind to earnings as well. Credit Suisse’s Private Banking division forecasts earnings growth of 10 percent over the next 12 months, compared with just 6.6 percent over the past year.  So it’s not a time for panic. In the U.S. and Japan, markets have already made up for their October declines and then some. The Dow Jones Industrial Average, for instance, has risen 9 percent since its October 16 low, and closed at its 23rd record high of the year on November 10. “[The] value has been restored,” says Strobaek. “We stick to our long term view that equities are the better asset class.”  The Financialist is a digital magazine presented by Credit Suisse that looks at the trends and ideas that drive markets, businesses and economies. This article originally appeared at The Financialist.  Copyright 2014. Follow The Financialist on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
New York (AFP) - The jewel of the New York skyline, the pride of a whole nation, is back. The opening of One World Trade Center, on the site of the Twin Towers that were destroyed on September 11, 2001, signals a long-awaited return to normal in the Big Apple. Since November 3, with little fanfare, some 500 employees of the media group Conde Nast moved in. They are due to be joined by another 3,000 in early 2015. There are also support staff on site -- brought into sharp relief this week by the spectacular rescue of two window washers suspended from the 69th floor. The symbolic 1,776-foot (541-meter) tower -- including its antenna -- is the tallest in the United States and in the Western hemisphere. Its tapered glass silhouette overlooks the September 11 Memorial, dedicated to the 2,753 victims of the New York attacks, along with six victims of a first attack on the Twin Towers in 1993, and sits next to the museum focused on the drama. The $3.9 billion, 104-story tower "is the most secure office building any place in the world," said Patrick Foye, executive director of the Port Authority of NY and NJ, which owns the site. The monumental lobby, with soaring ceilings some 47 feet high and white marble throughout, is protected by a special wall that can withstand explosions. Its concrete foundation is 185 feet tall. A staircase is dedicated to emergency responders, and concrete protects the elevators and stairways.  The communications system was designed in collaboration with police, the FBI, the Department of Homeland Security as well as private experts, Foye said. From high up in the tower, the 360-degree view offers glimpses of the Statue of Liberty to the south and the Empire State Building and Central Park to the north. For Big Apple visitors looking to orient themselves within Manhattan, One World Trade Center is a clear landmark at the southern end of the urban island.  For New Yorkers, it's a long-awaited sign of the determination to rebuild, slowed for years by political negotiations over just what should be done on "Ground Zero," and then by a hurting economy. Initially dubbed "Freedom Tower," before its name was changed in 2009, One World Trade Center finally broke ground in 2006. Construction was completed at the end of 2013. Some 65 percent of the space has already been rented out, Foye said during a visit to the 61st floor, rejecting the idea that some were afraid to move there because of the site's bloody history. Among the new tenants -- aside from Conde Nast, which will occupy floors 20 to 44 -- are online gamemaker Hi5, publicity group Kids Creative and the China Center, which fosters cultural exchanges between the United States and China.  REUTERS/Mike Segar Employees work in the lobby of the One World Trade Center tower in New York, November 3, 2014. In all, about 5,000 people will be working in the new tower.  And by next spring, the observatory, on the 100th, 101st and 102nd floors, will open to the public, with entry fees set at $32. The opening of the new tower "represents a return to normalcy down here," Foye said, emphasizing that the people will be working there, eating in the nearby restaurants, using the subway stop that should be ready early next year, and shopping in the hundreds of thousands of square feet of shops that continue to open. When the Twin Towers still stood, the neighborhood was mainly used as offices, and was nearly deserted by evening. But thanks to new residential construction, the population of lower Manhattan has tripled, from 20,000 to 60,000.  "This is a sign of the revitalization of downtown New York city," said Foye, of "the city and state and region and nation's response to 9/11." The memorial and museum "will for ever commemorate what happened here," and the nearly 3,000 people who died, he said.  "We will never forget that, but I think that we want to do now is to look forward, and the site is a site of progress." FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesIrish pharmaceutical company Actavis will buy Allergan, the maker of Botox, for $219 per share in cash and stock, the company said in a press release.  Actavis' CEO Brent Saunders will lead the company.  The deal is valued at $66 billion.  For many months, Allergan had been fending off a hostile bid from Canadian pharmaceutical company Valeant and hedge fund manager Bill Ackman.   Here's the company's statement:  Transaction Valued at $66 Billion or $219 per Share in Cash and Actavis Shares - - Fastest Growing, Most Dynamic Pharmaceutical Company in Global Healthcare - - Leading Blockbuster Franchises in Ophthalmology, Neurosciences/CNS, Medical Aesthetics/Dermatology/Plastic Surgery, Women's Health, Gastroenterology and Urology - - Positioned for Long-Term Double-Digit Organic Revenue and Earnings Growth - - Double-Digit Accretion to Non-GAAP EPS within First 12 Months - - Expands International Presence with Greater Market and Product Reach - - Projected Synergies of at Least $1.8 Billion while Maintaining R&amp;D Commitment of Approximately $1.7 Billion - - Free Cash Flow Generation of more than $8 Billion expected in 2016 - - Investment Grade Rating Expected to be Maintained; Rapid Deleveraging to Below 3.5x Debt to Adjusted EBITDA within 12 Months - - Closing Anticipated in Q2 2015 - DUBLIN and IRVINE, Calif., Nov. 17, 2014 /PRNewswire/ -- Actavis plc (NYSE:ACT) and Allergan, Inc. (NYSE:AGN) today announced that they have entered into a definitive agreement under which Actavis will acquire Allergan for a combination of $129.22 in cash and 0.3683 Actavis shares for each share of Allergan common stock.  Based on the closing price of Actavis shares on November 14, 2014, the transaction is valued at approximately $66 billion, or $219 per Allergan share. The combination will create one of the top 10 global pharmaceutical companies by sales revenue, with combined annual pro forma revenues of more than $23 billion anticipated in 2015. The transaction has been unanimously approved by the Boards of Directors of Actavis and Allergan, and is supported by the management teams of both companies. Actavis anticipates that the expected permanent financing structure, consisting of a combination of new equity and debt, will support an investment grade rating and provide long-term financing flexibility.   "This acquisition creates the fastest growing and most dynamic growth pharmaceutical company in global healthcare, making us one of the world's top 10 pharmaceutical companies," said Brent Saunders, CEO and President of Actavis. "We will establish an unrivaled foundation for long-term growth, anchored by leading, world-class blockbuster franchises and a premier late-stage pipeline that will accelerate our commitment to build an exceptional, sustainable portfolio. The combined company will have a strong balance sheet, growing product portfolios and broad commercial reach extending across 100 international markets. Our combined experienced management team is dedicated to driving strong organic growth while capturing synergies and maintaining a robust investment in strategically focused R&amp;D. "This is a financially compelling transaction. With pro forma revenues in excess of $23 billion anticipated in 2015, this combination doubles the revenue generated by our brands business and doubles the international revenue of the combined company. Management is committed to maximizing the potential for the combined company to drive industry-leading top and bottom line growth. With this combination, we plan to transform the growth profile of our pharmaceutical business and have the ability to generate organic revenue growth at a compound annual growth rate of at least 10 percent for the foreseeable future," added Saunders. "The combination is expected to generate strong free cash flow of more than $8 billion in 2016 and substantial growth thereafter, which will enable the rapid repayment of debt. We expect that the combination will result in double-digit accretion to non-GAAP earnings within the first 12 months." "Today's transaction provides Allergan stockholders with substantial and immediate value, as well as the opportunity to participate in the significant upside potential of the combined company," said David E. I. Pyott, Chairman and CEO of Allergan. "We are combining with a partner that is ideally suited to realize the full potential inherent in our franchise. Together with Actavis, we are poised to extend the Allergan growth story as part of a larger organization with a broad and balanced portfolio, a meaningful commitment to research and development, a strong pipeline and an unwavering focus on exceeding the expectations of patients and the medical specialists who treat them. I am thankful for the hard work and dedication of our employees, and I'm confident they will make many valuable contributions to the combined company. Looking to the immediate future, all of us at Allergan are excited to roll up our sleeves and work closely with the Actavis team to ensure a smooth transition."  "This combination will greatly enhance our U.S. and international commercial opportunities," said Paul Bisaro, Executive Chairman of Actavis. "In the U.S., the combination makes us more relevant to an even broader group of physicians and customers. Overseas, it will enhance our commercial position, expand our portfolio and broaden our footprint in Canada, Europe and Southeast Asia and other high-value growth markets, including China, India, the Middle East and Latin America."  The combined company will be led by Brent Saunders, CEO and President of Actavis, and Paul Bisaro will remain Executive Chairman of the Board. The integration of the two companies will be led by the senior management teams of both companies, with integration planning to begin immediately in order to transition rapidly to a single company. Additionally, two members of the Allergan Board of Directors will be invited to join the Actavis Board of Directors following the completion of the transaction. Financially Compelling TransactionThe growth profile of the combined pharmaceutical business will be unparalleled in the industry with the ability for double-digit revenue and earnings growth while maintaining investments to grow and develop our product portfolios and pipeline. The addition of Allergan's portfolio, including multiple blockbuster therapeutic franchises, doubles the revenues of Actavis' North American Specialty Brands business. On a pro forma basis for full year 2015, the combined company will have three blockbuster franchises each with annual revenues in excess of $3 billion in Ophthalmology, Neurosciences/CNS and Medical Aesthetics/Dermatology/Plastic Surgery. The specialty product franchises in Gastroenterology, Cardiovascular, Women's Health, Urology and Infectious Disease treatments will have combined revenues of approximately $4 billion. Actavis projects that the transaction will generate at least $1.8 billion in annual synergies commencing in 2016, in addition to the $475 million of annual savings previously announced by Allergan in connection with Project Endurance.  Actavis also plans to maintain annual R&amp;D investment of approximately $1.7 billion, ensuring the appropriate resource allocation to continue driving exceptional organic growth.  Significantly Expanded Brand Pharmaceutical Portfolio Supported by a World-Class North American Sales and Marketing Organization Allergan's blockbuster franchises in Ophthalmology, Neurosciences, and Medical Aesthetics/Dermatology/Plastic Surgery will complement Actavis' existing blockbuster CNS, Gastroenterology and Women's Health franchises to create a leading portfolio across a broad range of therapeutic areas. The companies' combined U.S. sales force will have extraordinary marketing reach and increased relevance with more than a dozen medical specialists, including primary care physicians, ophthalmologists, optometrists, dermatologists, aesthetic physicians, plastic surgeons, neurologists, psychiatrists, infectious disease specialists, cardiologists, pulmonologists, gastroenterologists, OB-GYNs and urologists. Expanded Commercial Opportunities Across Global Markets The combination of Actavis and Allergan will greatly enhance international commercial opportunities by positioning the combined company to extend its blockbuster franchise strategy on a global scale. The company will have approximately $5 billion in pro forma 2015 international revenue. Together Actavis and Allergan will have a commercial presence across 100 markets, including an enhanced presence across Canada, Europe, Southeast Asia and Latin America and a strong footprint in China and India. The combined company will benefit from Allergan's global brand equity, industry-leading consumer marketing capabilities and strong consumer awareness of key Allergan products, including BOTOX®. The combined company will have the unique opportunity to drive growth in international markets through its enhanced portfolio of brands, generics, branded-generic and over-the-counter products. Expanded Pharmaceutical R&amp;D Pipeline The combined company will provide a strong commitment to R&amp;D, with an exceptional level of annual investment of approximately $1.7 billion, focused on the strategic development of innovative and durable value-enhancing products within brands, generics, biologics and OTC portfolios. The combination is expected to add approximately 15 projects in near- and mid-term development to Actavis' robust development portfolio.   Additional DetailsActavis anticipates that the permanent financing structure, expected to include a combination of equity and debt, will support an investment grade rating and provide long-term financing flexibility.  Actavis expects to finance the cash portion of the consideration with a combination of new senior unsecured notes, term loans and equity securities. The company has committed bridge facilities from JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., Mizuho Bank and Wells Fargo and commitments to replace its existing facilities to the extent they are not amended to permit the acquisition and the related financing. The transaction is not subject to a financing condition.   The transaction is subject to the approval of the shareholders of both companies, as well as customary antitrust clearance in the U.S., the EU and certain other jurisdictions, and is anticipated to close in the second quarter of 2015. J.P. Morgan is serving as exclusive financial advisor to Actavis and Cleary Gottlieb Steen &amp; Hamilton LLP is serving as Actavis' lead legal advisor.  Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co. and BofA Merrill Lynch are serving as financial advisors to Allergan. Latham &amp; Watkins, Richards, Layton &amp; Finger, P.A. and Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen &amp; Katz are serving as legal counsel to Allergan. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsIndustrial production declined in October. The latest report from the Federal Reserve showed industrial production fell 0.1% month-on-month in October while capacity utilization fell to 78.9% from 79.3%.  Expectations were for the report to show industrial production rose 0.2% month-on-month in October, with capacity utilization expected to remain at 79.3%.  Last month's report showed industrial production rose 1% month-on-month in September, which was stronger than the 0.4% expected by economists. Monday's report showed September's growth number was also revised down to 0.8% from 1%, while capacity utilization for September also fell to 79.2% from 79.3%.  The big declines in the October report were from the mining and utilities sectors, which saw production fall 0.9% and 0.7%, respectively, while manufacturing production was up 0.2%.  In a note to clients following the report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro said mining output, "was depressed by a 1.2% drop in crude oil extraction, where the trend is still rising but the rate of growth is slowing as falling prices have greatly reduced the profitability of US shale operations."  FREE AppDownload
Pixabay via Google ImagesThe recovery will be around for a while.Morgan Stanley believes that the current economic recovery could be the longest ever, probably lasting through 2020. In September, strategist Adam Parker said the S&amp;P 500 could peak near 3,000 during this cycle.  In a recent note to clients, Morgan Stanley analysts identified 45 stocks that could work with the long-term recovery in mind. "Given the extremely long time horizon, we were agnostic about current valuation, focusing instead on fundamental business models," they wrote. "Starting from a list of over 100 equities highlighted by our analysts, we focused on stocks rated Overweight or Equal-weight in the context of the 12-month time horizon contemplated by Morgan Stanley’s stock-rating system," the analysts wrote. "We also examined each stock through the prism of our US Equity Strategy team’s quantitative stock-selection model, BEST, which ranks over 1,000 US stocks by their expected market-relative performance on a 24-month horizon." Most of the stocks are in financials, industrials and energy, which Morgan Stanley said typically perform in tandem with the economic cycle. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersDetail from the front of the United States Federal Reserve Board building is shown in WashingtonWASHINGTON (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve said it is hosting a meeting on Monday with banks and regulators to discuss the development of a reference rate alternative to LIBOR, the London interbank rate that was at the center of a global rigging scandal. Expected participants in the discussion include Bank of America , Goldman Sachs , HSBC  and central bank officials from England, Europe and Japan. The Fed said that the meeting, held at the New York Fed, is a step toward implementing recommendations issued by a Financial Stability Board report in July.  (Reporting by Michael Flaherty) FREE AppDownload
TO FIND OUT how much energy security has mattered in the Pacific's recent history, ask the Japanese. At the museum of the Yasukuni Shrine in Tokyo, which honours the country's war dead (sometimes controversially), an exhibit suggests, with a jarring note of self-justification, that an American naval blockade against Japanese oil imports in 1941 triggered the Pacific war. Seventy years later a tsunami that swooshed in from the Pacific and knocked out the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power station led to the closure of Japan's 54 nuclear reactors. Parts of the country, which is a greedy consumer of electricity, were left practically powerless. Huge tankers full of natural gas, heading for terminals dotted along Japan's Pacific coastline, eventually got the country up and running again. In 2012 Japan consumed 37% of the world's liquefied natural gas (LNG). The EconomistThe past few years have seen some upheavals in the balance of energy security around the Pacific. America, which used to be the world's largest net oil importer, ceded that spot to China in 2013 (see chart 4). Thanks to shale oil and gas, this year it is set to become the world's biggest producer of oil and liquid natural gas. It is already the number one producer of dry natural gas. That highlights the prospect of huge trans-Pacific complementarities. China is reducing the dominance of dirty coal in its energy mix, Japan and South Korea are denuclearising, and fast-developing countries like Indonesia are turning from LNG exporters to importers. Yet to date there is next to no trans-Pacific trade in oil, gas or coal in either direction; in 2011 the Singapore-based Pacific Economic Co-operation Council (PECC) said it added up to only 1.4% of global trade in those products. According to statistics from BP, a global energy firm, North America gets most of its crude-oil imports from Canada or via its east coast from Latin America, the Middle East and west Africa. Asia receives the vast majority from the Middle East via the South China Sea. The Pacific is a big blank. But that may be about to change, with potentially big implications for the economic interdependence and geopolitics of the Pacific region. Enefit The epicentre of the change is North America, whose huge gas discoveries are about to turn it into a global LNG power. In Canada Asian-owned companies plan to build the first export terminals on the coast of British Columbia in the next few years to ship LNG across the Pacific. In the United States the government has recently approved the construction of four terminals to liquefy gas and ship it west via the Panama Canal. One of those, Dominion Energy's Cove Point, near Washington, DC, built as an LNG import terminal in the 1970s, had been mothballed for much of the following three decades. Not long after it resumed receiving LNG imports in 2003, American natural-gas prices plummeted in response to the shale revolution, putting the terminal out of business again. So in 2011 Dominion switched to marketing Cove Point to foreign LNG customers as a potential export facility. On September 29th this year the Federal Regulatory Energy Commission finally approved construction of an export terminal. Those LNG exports will benefit from a $5.3 billion expansion of the Panama Canal. Due to be completed (after several delays) in 2016, this will make the canal big enough to accommodate nine-tenths of the world's LNG fleet, potentially cutting at least 11 days off shipping times between the Gulf of Mexico and East Asia. The implications of this new trade on both sides of the Pacific could be substantial. According to Jane Nakano, of the Centre for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) in Washington, as of last year Japan had contracted to buy about a fifth of its LNG imports from America once it gets the necessary permissions. Currently dry gas in America costs $4-5 per million British thermal units (MBTUs). Even allowing for another $6 or so to liquefy the gas and transport it to Asia (and far less from Canada's west coast), the price would still be a lot lower than the $15-18 per MBTU that LNG currently fetches in Japan. Cheaper energy would make Japan's economy more competitive, and America would see a much-needed improvement in its trade balance. For American exporters, that scenario involves risks. Australia, one of the world's two biggest LNG exporters, is ramping up its output over the next five years, much of it destined for Asia. China, another big potential buyer, appears to be avoiding American LNG. This year it signed a $400 billion deal with Russia to import natural gas from there for the next three decades. But the energy markets of China and North America are warily intertwining in other ways, mainly through Chinese investment in oil. North America has received a flood of investment from Chinese oil companies since the global financial crisis. In 2012 CNOOC, one of China's state-owned energy behemoths, bought Canada's Nexen for $15 billion, seven years after its bid for America's Unocal was scuppered by opposition in Washington. The welcome is not always open-armed. After the Canadian deal the prime minister, Stephen Harper, put a financial limit on further acquisitions: "Canadians have not spent years reducing the ownership of sectors of the economy by our own governments only to see them bought and controlled by foreign governments instead," he said. But Mexico, which in 2013 changed its constitution to allow foreign investment in its oil industry for the first time in 75 years, would welcome China with open arms if it wanted to invest in its energy sector, according to Ildefonso Guajardo, its economy minister. Tellingly, in the past two years Mexico's president, Enrique Peña Nieto, has had four meetings with his Chinese counterpart, Xi Jinping--the same number as with President Obama. The benefits of this new North American energy glut go far beyond the oil industry. For a start, it is making North American manufacturing more competitive. The combination of cheaper energy and rising Chinese wages could make Mexico a more attractive factory floor. But it is also sending two powerful geopolitical signals: one to America's close allies, such as Japan and South Korea, that the friendship can now also help underpin their energy security; the other, to the wider Asian region, that North America has bounced back from the global financial crisis. In time, such symbols of economic revival could resonate strongly on the other side of the Pacific. Eduardo Pedrosa, the Singapore-based secretary-general of PECC, calls it a tectonic shift in American competitiveness. "I don't think anyone over here realises how massive this shale revolution is for the US economy." Click here to subscribe to The Economist FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueDealers trade on the floor of the London International Financial Futures and Options Exchange March 5, 1993.30 years equals about 11,000 days. One might assume that eliminating a few of those days would have little impact on investment performance during that time. Yet, if the ten best days of the S&amp;P 500 Index for the period 1983- 2013 are excluded, the average annual return drops from 8.40% to 5.80%. If the twenty best days are excluded, the average annual return drops to 4.09%. If individual days can affect performance so dramatically, then why not be in the market for the good ones and out for the bad ones? Far easier said than done. Many investors try to time the market, chasing today’s hot investment or fleeing the latest downturn. Such a short-term perspective can harm performance and jeopardize your long-term financial goals. Another common tactic during periods of market volatility and uncertainty is to park long-term assets in cash investments. While waiting on the sidelines can sometimes seem the prudent strategy, it comes at a cost. CDs and money market accounts may be less volatile than stocks and bonds, but they also offer little opportunity for growth and income. Stock market ups and downs may be part of the investing cycle, but they can put investors to the test. To help stay the course in volatile markets, Columbia Management offers the following illustrations based on fundamental investing principles. While no strategy can assure a profit or protect against loss, it’s been shown time and again that time, not timing, matters most when building wealth for the long term. Columbia Management Columbia Management Columbia Management FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas Jackson Manufacturing activity in New York rebounded in November, but still came in below expectations in the New York Fed's latest Empire State manufacturing survey. The headline index for November came in at 10.2. Expectations were for the reading to come in at 12, up from 6.17 last month. The report's index for the number of employees "edged down" to 8.5 but remained positive indicating that employment levels grew, though the average workweek index indicated a decline in average hours worked. The report also showed that indexes for the six-month outlook were "generally higher" in November and "conveyed a strong degree of optimism about future business conditions." In a note to clients following the report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro wrote that the number was "mildly disappointing" but not a clear national signal.  Shepherdson added that the decline the index's prices paid and prices received sub-indexes likely is a result of declining gas prices, the report possibly presents some downside risk to the Philly Fed manufacturing survey due out later this week.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Toru Hanai Japan's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.Good morning, and happy Monday from rainy New York City. Via Dave Lutz of JonesTrading, here's a quick guide to what traders are talking about this morning: Good Morning! Equity futures are under some pressure, led by a 30bp drop in the S&amp;P. Tokyo is the overnight headwind, as Japan’s GDP plunged on the Consumption Tax hike – That hit the Nikkei for 3% and sparked selling in Industrial/Growth names globally. Right now the DAX is off 30bp, while volumes across Europe are quite light as all eyes on Draghi when he delivers his testimony on monetary policy before the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs at 9amET. Over in Asia, Russia’s MICEX shrugged off Putin leaving G20 early as fresh sanctions are bantered about - Shanghai outperformed as investors used the new HK link to the mainland to snap up Chinese stocks – India cruises to another record close, and Aussie dropped 75bp as banks are still weighed by last week’s regulatory headlines – Ore miners under pressure, but Gold Miners had another nice pop. The 10YY in the USA begins under pressure, as we near new wides in US-German Yield differentials. The DXY is higher, with the $ gaining ground against Euro and Yen – a headwind for commodities. Industrial and Energy commodities are weighed by Japan as well – with Brent off 1% and Copper down 60bp. In metals, gold is unchanged, but Silver’s industrial uses are hitting it for 1% early. The standout commodity winner is Natty - popping as an arctic air blast lowers temps in Central and Eastern USA 20-40degrees below average this week. Scheduled Catalysts today include Empire Manufacturing at 8:30, the Draghi Testimony at 9, US Industrial Production at 9:15, at 9:30 the ECB Announces Covered-Bond Purchases, while at9:45 ECB's Benoit Coeure Speaks. Finally, at 10am, we have the Fed's Evans giving Opening Remarks at Agriculture Conference.  Some trades I am on the lookout for include the ITB, which is struggling to hold new breakout highs above $25 into Eco data (Existing, Pending, NAHB), as well as HD #s Tuesday, and LOW Weds (total 8% ITB) – Watch the EWZ (Brazil), near YTD lows into the PBR call at 8amET - JPM has a nice chartpack out, reversing their UW Europe v. USA stance (lets see if that holds in the face of a deteriorating Russia) – watch the Gold Miners, as they continue their short-cover action from last week as the metal stabilizes into the SNB vote on the 30th – The OIH and XOP as shorts digest HAL for BHI at a substantial premium – and finally today should bring us the “Good Harbor” rebalance. FREE AppDownload
You know you have to get fit but you're convinced that you just don't have the time. But you're wrong! Everyone can do it, here are some tips. Produced by Matt JohnstonFollow BI Video: On Facebook
When the price of a barrel of Brent crude oil peaked at a record $145.40 on July 3, 2008, there was lots of talk about "peak oil." Industry experts were speculating about whether the price might continue to rise to $200 or even higher. Global oil demand was growing faster than global oil supply. Dr. Ed's Blog It was widely believed that global oil reserves were likely to dwindle because all the cheap stuff had been found. The remaining reserves would require higher prices to develop. Now that the price has plunged from this year’s high of $115.15 on June 19 to Thursday’s $76.13, the focus is on how low can it go, what I called "trough oil" in late October. (Oil settled at $66.15 a barrel on November 28, a more than $7.50 drop in just 24 hours.) In a matter of a few months, the world suddenly recognized that the world is awash in oil. That's largely because of the extraordinary surge in US oil field production, which soared 3.6mbd over the past two years to a high of 9.4mbd during the week of Sept. 12. Easy money in the US sent lots of investors searching for better returns in the oil patch. They fueled the oil boom. In many ways, it was a bubble that may be starting to burst. Over the past eight weeks through the first week of November, US output has dropped by 0.4mbd to 9.0mbd. As they say in the commodity pits: “The best cure for falling commodity prices is falling commodity prices.” Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: The Great Deflators. (1) The New Abnormal. (2) Nostalgia about normalizing monetary policy. (3) Monetary policy affects both demand and supply. (4) Awash in liquidity and oil. (5) Easy money fueled the oil bubble. (6) Secular stagnation specter haunting Europe. (7) China remains on soft-landing course. (8) Specter of deflation in Asia. (9) Durable goods prices are falling everywhere. (10) How the Great Moderators became the Great Deflators. (11) Central bankers keeping zombies alive. (12) Governments are the biggest zombies of all. (13) Meet the Selfies. (14) “Whiplash” (+ + +). (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA Wall Street sign is pictured in the rain outside the New York Stock ExchangeNEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stock index futures slipped on Monday, following four consecutive weeks of gains for major Wall Street indexes, weighed by data showing Japan slipped into recession. * Merger and acquisition news partly offset the declines as Halliburton said it would buy Baker Hughes and Allergan is close to a buyout deal by Actavis. * Japan's economy unexpectedly slipped into recession in the third quarter, setting the stage for Prime Minister Shinzo Abe to delay an unpopular sales tax hike and call a snap election two years before he has to go to the polls. * The Japanese data took crude futures prices lower, with Brent  off 1 percent at $78.50 per barrel. Brent prices have fallen in the last eight weeks and are down nearly 30 percent from June. * Baker Hughes  rose 16.4 percent on news Halliburton  would acquire it in a cash and stock transaction of about $34.6 billion. Halliburton shares fell 2.9 percent in premarket trading. * Allergan  added 4.5 percent as the Actavis buyout values the company as high as $65.5 billion. * Negotiations between Hasbro  and DreamWorks Animation  have been hampered by issues regarding the structure of the combined company, according to a person familiar with the matter. DreamWorks shares fell 13.3 percent. Futures snapshot at 7:37 a.m. EST (1237 GMT): * S&amp;P 500 e-minis  were down 5.75 points, or 0.28 percent, with 156,801 contracts changing hands. * Nasdaq 100 e-minis  were down 8.75 points, or 0.21 percent, in volume of 27,684 contracts. * Dow e-minis  were down 39 points, or 0.22 percent, with 22,525 contracts changing hands.  (Reporting by Rodrigo Campos; Editing by Bernadette Baum) FREE AppDownload
British tech firms tempted to go public are being urged to go to the US, where - it is claimed - they can get proper analyst coverage, find more suitable investors and raise more money overall. According to the head of the NASDAQ, the US technology exchange that is home to Apple and Facebook, London is taking the “right first steps” in developing its technology sector, but is still a long way behind behind the US. Bruce Aust, NASDAQ’s vice-chairman and head of new listings, said: “The UK is getting there. The Government is recognizing that most jobs are going to come from these entrepreneurial companies. But Europe, and the UK in particular, needs to build that analyst community. When you go public, you want analysts to write about your stock. In the US, the average tech company has 20 analysts covering its stock. You don’t have that kind of numbers in the UK.” Mr Aust pointed to the recent example of London-based financial data company Markit, which raised $4bn when it listed on the NASDAQ earlier this year. The financial data company was created in a barn in Hertfordshire 12 years ago and is now based in London’s square mile. When listing on the NASDAQ in June, founder Lance Uggla said that Markit would continue to be headquartered in the UK and pay UK corporate taxes, but that listing in the US would give it the best access to capital to grow. There are currently 14 UK companies listed on the NASDAQ, including Vodafone, WPP and Aviva. Mr Aust, talking on a trip to London, added that 2014 has been a record year for the exchange, which has seen firms including wearable camera maker GoPro, Chinese microblogging website Weibo, and Virgin America join the market. The exchange is close to hitting the 5,000 mark last seen in March 2000, the peak of the dotcom bubble. Mr Aust said it is down to investors to decide whether we’re in another bubble, but that firms are now staying private for longer, an average of 8 to 10 years, to prove they are a stable investment. He added the index will continue to surge next year, carried along by the wider economic environment. “Interest rates are at all time lows. We are expecting an interest rate rise mid-next year in the US, but it will be gradual. People are constantly looking for new things to invest in. There’s still a lot of money that can be put to work in the equity market.” Applications to join the NASDAQ are almost double what they were a year ago. Around two thirds of applications, which each cost $25,000, are successful.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Dylan MartinezRoger Federer of Switzerland waits to announce that he is injured and unfit to play Novak Djokovic of Serbia in the men's singles final tennis match at the ATP World Tour Finals at the O2 in London on Sunday.Good morning! Here are the major news stories.  Japan Is In Recession. Unexpectedly poor GDP data confirmed Japan has been in recession, with a 1.6% rate of contraction in Q3 when a 2.2% rate of growth was expected. This followed a 7.3% rate of decline in Q2. Forget About That Japanese Consumer Tax Hike. Japan was expected to hike tax rates for the second time this year. Given that the first tax hike has been blamed for this year's economic woes, that second hike is likely to be delayed. "This environment makes it increasingly tough to call for an increase in the consumption tax, making it virtually certain that they'll put off the tax hike and hold a snap election," RBS Securities' Junko Nishioka said. Japan Gets Slammed. The unexpected shrinkage of the Japanese economy sent Japan's major stock index, the Nikkei, tumbling 2.9%. The yen tumbled to a 117.05 per dollar, the lowest level since October 2007. Markets are down everywhere. Dow futures are down 43 points, and S&amp;P 500 futures are down 6 points. In Europe, Britain's FTSE 100, France's CAC 40, and Germany's DAX are all down by less than 0.5%. US Industrial Production Data. At 9:15 a.m. ET, we'll get the October industrial production report. Economists estimate production climbed by just 0.2% in October while the capacity utilization rate was unchanged at 79.3%. "Weaker global growth, a stronger dollar, and falling oil prices act as headwinds to industrial production, but gains likely persisted into October," Wells Fargo's John Silvia said. Energy Industry Mega-Merger. Halliburton will buy Baker Hughes for $34.6 billion, or $78.62 per share. "The transaction will combine the companies' product and service capabilities to deliver an unsurpassed depth and breadth of solutions to our customers, creating a Houston-based global oilfield services champion, manufacturing and exporting technologies, and creating jobs and serving customers around the globe," Halliburton CEO Dave Lesar said. Pharma Industry Merger Could Be Bad News For Bill Ackman. "Actavis PLC is nearing a deal to acquire Allergan Inc. in a tie-up that would likely be the year’s largest and could help shield Botox maker Allergan from a hostile takeover," reports The Wall Street Journal's Jonathan Rockoff, Dana Mattioli, and Liz Hoffman. "Closing such a deal is [big] in part because hostile suitor Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc. could improve its offer for Allergan, which Valeant already has done several times ... Valeant and activist investor William Ackman since April have been seeking to seal a deal with Allergan, an unusual alliance that teamed a corporate suitor with an activist hedge fund. Mr. Ackman’s Pershing Square Capital Management LP built a nearly 10% stake in Allergan before Valeant made its bid. " Hedge Funds Love Alibaba. "Hedge funds scooped up shares of Chinese company Alibaba Group Holding in the third quarter, making the e-commerce giant one of the most commonly bought stocks among some of the country's biggest investors, according to regulatory filings on Friday," Reuters' Luciana Lopez reported. "Among the institutional investors that took new stakes in Alibaba were Jana Partners, the $11 billion hedge fund run by Barry Rosenstein, Janus Capital Management, Tiger Management, Louis Bacon's Moore Capital Management and Leon Cooperman's Omega Advisors." A 24-Year Streak In The Korean Auto Market Has Ended. South Korea is on track to spend more on vehicle imports from Europe this year than it earns from exports the other way for the first time in 24 years, as German brands breach the once impregnable fortress of Hyundai Motor and its local rivals. The Landmark Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Link Just Opened. The link is expected to drive billions of dollars of trading every day. Facebook Is Working On A Professional Development Website. Facebook is secretly working on a new website called "Facebook at Work" that would allow users to keep their personal profile separate from their work profile, the Financial Times reported. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yorgos KarahalisFlowers are placed on a monument inside the Athens' Polytechnic school, on the eve of the 41st anniversary of a 1973 student uprising against the then military ruling junta in Athens November 16, 2014.Last week was pretty light on economic data. Still, the stock market quietly climbed to new record highs. This week is loaded with reports on manufacturing, housing, and inflation. Importantly, we'll get the minutes of the October Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting, the meeting that marked the end of quantitative easing. Many Fed-watchers thought the Fed sounded a bit hawkish, especially with regards to its language on the improving US labor market. Maybe we'll get some clarity this week.  Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Commentary Once again, the S&amp;P 500 closed the week at an all-time high. Of the Wall Street strategists followed by Business Insider, only one predicted that we could see the S&amp;P at the 2,039 level we're seeing today. That person: ex-JP Morgan strategist Tom Lee. On September 15 in his inaugural report for his new firm Fundstrat Global Advisors, Lee predicted the S&amp;P would hit 2,100 by year end. "We're in a seasonally strong period, so I think the markets will close above our targets," Lee said to CNBC on Wednesday. "I would say if you feel uncomfortable being long, it's a good sign because that's how bull markets should feel." For more insight about the middle market, visit mid-marketpulse.com. FREE AppDownload
ReutersHalliburton is buying Baker Hughes for $34.6 billion, the company has announced. The deal is at $78.62/share — based on Halliburton's closing on Wednesday — with an equity value of $34.6 billion.  On Friday, Halliburton moved to overthrow the board of Baker Hughes after negotiations hit a snag. Bloomberg reported that the two sides anticipated they would need to sell up to $10 billion in assets for the deal to receive regulatory approval.  Like many oil companies, Halliburton has seen its shares fall with dropping oil prices. The offer is a 31% premium to Baker Hughes' Friday close on the New York Stock Exchange, Reuters notes. Here's where Halliburton, the world's second-largest oil field services companies, ended on Friday at close: NYSE   Here's the full release: Halliburton Company (HAL) and Baker Hughes Incorporated (BHI) today announced a definitive agreement under which Halliburton will acquire all the outstanding shares of Baker Hughes in a stock and cash transaction. The transaction is valued at $78.62 per Baker Hughes share, representing an equity value of $34.6 billion and enterprise value of $38.0 billion, based on Halliburton’s closing price on November 12, 2014, the day prior to public confirmation by Baker Hughes that it was in talks with Halliburton regarding a transaction. Upon the completion of the transaction, Baker Hughes stockholders will own approximately 36 percent of the combined company. The agreement has been unanimously approved by both companies’ Boards of Directors. The transaction combines two highly complementary suites of products and services into a comprehensive offering to oil and natural gas customers. On a pro-forma basis the combined company had 2013 revenues of $51.8 billion, more than 136,000 employees and operations in more than 80 countries around the world. “We are pleased to announce this combination with Baker Hughes, which will create a bellwether global oilfield services company and offer compelling benefits for the stockholders, customers and other stakeholders of Baker Hughes and Halliburton,” said Dave Lesar, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Halliburton. “The transaction will combine the companies’ product and service capabilities to deliver an unsurpassed depth and breadth of solutions to our customers, creating a Houston-based global oilfield services champion, manufacturing and exporting technologies, and creating jobs and serving customers around the globe.” Lesar continued, “The stockholders of Baker Hughes will immediately receive a substantial premium and have the opportunity to participate in the significant upside potential of the combined company. Our stockholders know our management team and know we live up to our commitments. We know how to create value, how to execute, and how to integrate in order to make this combination successful. We expect the combination to yield annual cost synergies of nearly $2 billion. As such, we expect that the acquisition will be accretive to Halliburton’s cash flow by the end of the first year after closing and to earnings per share by the end of the second year. We anticipate that the combined company will also generate significant free cash flow, allowing for the return of substantial capital to stockholders.” Martin Craighead, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Baker Hughes said, “This brings our stockholders a significant premium and the opportunity to own a meaningful share in a larger, more competitive global company. By combining two great companies that have delivered cutting-edge solutions to customers in the worldwide oil and gas industry for more than a century, we will create a new world of opportunities to advance the development of technologies for our customers. We envision a combined company capable of achieving opportunities that neither company would have realized as well – or as quickly – on its own, all while creating exciting new opportunities for employees.” Lesar concluded, “We believe that the expertise of both companies’ employees and leaders will be a competitive advantage for the combined company. Together with the people of Baker Hughes, we will establish a team to develop a detailed and thoughtful integration plan to make the post-closing transition as seamless, efficient and productive as possible. We look forward to welcoming the talented employees of Baker Hughes and are pleased they will be joining the Halliburton team.” Transaction Terms and Approvals Under the terms of the agreement, stockholders of Baker Hughes will receive, for each Baker Hughes share, a fixed exchange ratio of 1.12 Halliburton shares plus $19.00 in cash. The value of the merger consideration as of November 12, 2014 represents 8.1 times current consensus 2014 EBITDA estimates and 7.2 times current consensus 2015 EBITDA estimates. The transaction value represents a premium of 40.8 percent to the stock price of Baker Hughes on October 10, 2014, the day prior to Halliburton's initial offer to Baker Hughes. And over longer time periods, based on the consideration, this represents a one year, three year and five year premium of 36.3 percent, 34.5 percent, and 25.9 percent, respectively. Halliburton intends to finance the cash portion of the acquisition through a combination of cash on hand and fully committed debt financing. The transaction is subject to approvals from each company’s stockholders, regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions. Halliburton’s and Baker Hughes’ internationally recognized advisors have evaluated the likely actions needed to obtain regulatory approval, and Halliburton and Baker Hughes are committed to completing this combination. Halliburton has agreed to divest businesses that generate up to $7.5 billion in revenues, if required by regulators, although Halliburton believes that the divestitures required will be significantly less. Halliburton has agreed to pay a fee of $3.5 billion if the transaction terminates due to a failure to obtain required antitrust approvals. Halliburton is confident that a combination is achievable from a regulatory standpoint. The transaction is expected to close in the second half of 2015. Compelling Strategic and Financial Benefits Headquarters, Management and Board of Directors The combined company will maintain the Halliburton name and continue to be traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol “HAL.” The company will be headquartered in Houston, Texas. Dave Lesar will continue as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the combined company. Following the completion of the transaction, the combined company’s Board of Directors is expected to expand to 15 members, three of whom will come from the Board of Baker Hughes. Concurrently with the execution of the merger agreement, Halliburton withdrew its slate of directors nominated for the Board of Directors of Baker Hughes. Advisors Credit Suisse is serving as lead financial advisor and BofA Merrill Lynch is also serving as financial advisor to Halliburton. Baker Botts L.L.P. and Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen &amp; Katz are serving as Halliburton’s legal counsel. BofA Merrill Lynch, as lead arranger, and Credit Suisse are providing fully committed debt financing in support of the cash portion of the consideration. Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co. is serving as financial advisor to Baker Hughes. Davis Polk &amp; Wardwell LLP and Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP are serving as Baker Hughes’ legal counsel on this transaction. Conference Call Halliburton (HAL) and Baker Hughes (BHI) will host a conference call on Monday, November 17, 2014, to discuss the proposed business transaction. The call will begin at 7:00 AM Central Time (8:00 AM Eastern Time). An accompanying slide deck will be posted to both the Halliburton and Baker Hughes websites at www.halliburton.com and www.bakerhughes.com/investor. Please visit either website to listen to the call live via webcast. In addition, you may participate in the call by dialing (866) 225-4091 within North America or (703) 639-1128 outside North America. A passcode is not required. Attendees should log in to the webcast or dial in approximately 15 minutes prior to the call’s start time. A replay of the conference call will be available on both companies’ websites for seven days following the call. Also, a replay may be accessed by telephone at (888) 266-2081 within North America or (703) 925-2533 outside of North America, using the passcode 1648003. About Halliburton Founded in 1919, Halliburton is one of the world's largest providers of products and services to the energy industry. With more than 80,000 employees, representing 140 nationalities in over 80 countries, the company serves the upstream oil and gas industry throughout the lifecycle of the reservoir - from locating hydrocarbons and managing geological data, to drilling and formation evaluation, well construction and completion, and optimizing production through the life of the field. Visit the company’s website at www.halliburton.com. Connect with Halliburton onFacebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, Oilpro and YouTube. About Baker Hughes Baker Hughes is a leading supplier of oilfield services, products, technology and systems to the worldwide oil and natural gas industry. The company's 61,000 employees today work in more than 80 countries helping customers find, evaluate, drill, produce, transport and process hydrocarbon resources. For more information on Baker Hughes, visit: www.bakerhughes.com. Forward-Looking Statements The statements in this press release that are not historical statements, including statements regarding the expected timetable for completing the proposed transaction, benefits and synergies of the proposed transaction, future opportunities for the combined company and products, future financial performance and any other statements regarding Halliburton’s and Baker Hughes’ future expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, financial conditions, assumptions or future events or performance that are not historical facts, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the company’s control, which could cause actual results to differ materially from the results expressed or implied by the statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: failure to obtain the required votes of Halliburton’s or Baker Hughes’ stockholders; the timing to consummate the proposed transaction; satisfaction of the conditions to closing of the proposed transaction may not be satisfied or that the closing of the proposed transaction otherwise does not occur; the risk that a regulatory approval that may be required for the proposed transaction is not obtained or is obtained subject to conditions that are not anticipated; the diversion of management time on transaction-related issues; the ultimate timing, outcome and results of integrating the operations of Halliburton and Baker Hughes and the ultimate outcome of Halliburton’s operating efficiencies applied to Baker Hughes’ products and services; the effects of the business combination of Halliburton and Baker Hughes, including the combined company’s future financial condition, results of operations, strategy and plans; expected synergies and other benefits from the proposed transaction and the ability of Halliburton to realize such synergies and other benefits; expectations regarding regulatory approval of the transaction; results of litigation, settlements, and investigations; final court approval of, and the satisfaction of the conditions in, Halliburton’s September 2014 settlement relating to the Macondo well incident in the Gulf of Mexico; appeals of the multi-district litigation District Court's September 2014 ruling regarding Phase 1 of the trial, and future rulings of the District Court; results of litigation, settlements, and investigations not covered by the settlement or the District Court's rulings; actions by third parties, including governmental agencies, relating to the Macondo well incident; BP's April 2012 settlement relating to the Macondo well incident, indemnification, and insurance matters; with respect to repurchases of Halliburton common stock, the continuation or suspension of the repurchase program, the amount, the timing and the trading prices of Halliburton common stock, and the availability and alternative uses of cash; actions by third parties, including governmental agencies; changes in the demand for or price of oil and/or natural gas can be significantly impacted by weakness in the worldwide economy; consequences of audits and investigations by domestic and foreign government agencies and legislative bodies and related publicity and potential adverse proceedings by such agencies; protection of intellectual property rights and against cyber attacks; compliance with environmental laws; changes in government regulations and regulatory requirements, particularly those related to offshore oil and natural gas exploration, radioactive sources, explosives, chemicals, hydraulic fracturing services and climate-related initiatives; compliance with laws related to income taxes and assumptions regarding the generation of future taxable income; risks of international operations, including risks relating to unsettled political conditions, war, the effects of terrorism, and foreign exchange rates and controls, international trade and regulatory controls, and doing business with national oil companies; weather-related issues, including the effects of hurricanes and tropical storms; changes in capital spending by customers; delays or failures by customers to make payments owed to us; execution of long-term, fixed-price contracts; impairment of oil and natural gas properties; structural changes in the oil and natural gas industry; maintaining a highly skilled workforce; availability and cost of raw materials; and integration of acquired businesses and operations of joint ventures. Halliburton's and Baker Hughes’ respective reports on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013, Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2014, recent Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) filings discuss some of the important risk factors identified that may affect these factors and Halliburton's and Baker Hughes’ respective business, results of operations and financial condition. Halliburton and Baker Hughes undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements that speak only as of the date hereof. Additional Information This communication does not constitute an offer to buy or sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy or sell any securities or a solicitation of any vote or approval. This communication relates to a proposed business combination between Halliburton and Baker Hughes. In connection with this proposed business combination, Halliburton and/or Baker Hughes may file one or more proxy statements, registration statements, proxy statement/prospectus or other documents with the SEC. This communication is not a substitute for any proxy statement, registration statement, proxy statement/prospectus or other document Halliburton and/or Baker Hughes may file with the SEC in connection with the proposed transaction. INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS OF HALLIBURTON AND BAKER HUGHES ARE URGED TO READ THE PROXY STATEMENT(S), REGISTRATION STATEMENT(S), PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS AND OTHER DOCUMENTS THAT MAY BE FILED WITH THE SEC CAREFULLY AND IN THEIR ENTIRETY IF AND WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION. Any definitive proxy statement(s) (if and when available) will be mailed to stockholders of Halliburton and/or Baker Hughes, as applicable. Investors and security holders will be able to obtain free copies of these documents (if and when available) and other documents filed with the SEC by Halliburton and/or Baker Hughes through the website maintained by the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. Copies of the documents filed with the SEC by Halliburton will be available free of charge on Halliburton’s internet website athttp://www.halliburton.com or by contacting Halliburton’s Investor Relations Department by email at investors@Halliburton.com or by phone at +1-281-871-2688. Copies of the documents filed with the SEC by Baker Hughes will be available free of charge on Baker Hughes’ internet website at http://www.bakerhughes.com or by contacting Baker Hughes’ Investor Relations Department by email at trey.clark@bakerhughes.com or alondra.oteyza@bakerhughes.com or by phone at +1-713-439-8039 or +1-713-439-8822. Participants in Solicitation Halliburton, Baker Hughes, their respective directors and certain of their respective executive officers may be considered participants in the solicitation of proxies in connection with the proposed transaction. Information about the directors and executive officers of Halliburton is set forth in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013, which was filed with the SEC on February 7, 2014, its proxy statement for its 2014 annual meeting of stockholders, which was filed with the SEC on April 8, 2014, its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2014 which was filed with the SEC on October 24, 2014 and its Current Report on Form 8-K, which was filed with the SEC on October 20, 2014. Information about the directors and executive officers of Baker Hughes is set forth in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013, which was filed with the SEC on February 12, 2014, its proxy statement for its 2014 annual meeting of stockholders, which was filed with the SEC on March 5, 2014, its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2014 which was filed with the SEC on October 21, 2014 and its Current Reports on Form 8-K, which were filed with the SEC on June 10, 2014 and September 10, 2014. These documents can be obtained free of charge from the sources indicated above. Additional information regarding the participants in the proxy solicitations and a description of their direct and indirect interests, by security holdings or otherwise, will be contained in the proxy statement/prospectus and other relevant materials to be filed with the SEC when they become available. FREE AppDownload
BUNDESBANK/ REUTERS/Kai Pfaffenbach Bundesbank boss Jens Weidmann, the man most closely associated with Germany's opposition to easier monetary policy, is slamming the brakes on expectations that the European Central Bank will finally go for quantitative easing (QE).  The European economy is slowing down, and there is a danger of both a new recession and deflation across the continent. The ECB has already made money as cheap as possible for investors to borrow by holding interest rates down close to zero. QE would be the next step — a programme in which the ECB buys various assets from banks largely to inject new cash into the system. Germany, once the economic powerhouse of the continent, is itself teetering on the brink of contraction — and yet the Germans don't seem to want to do anything about it. Weidmann, speaking to Handelsblatt, a German business newspaper, said the Germans would prefer to be debt-free: "Such purchases might create new incentives to run up debt, besides adding to the reform fatigue in a number of countries," he cautioned. Nor was there any guarantee that quantitative easing would indeed have the intended impact on the economy, Weidmann pointed out. He added that Germany shouldn't offer Europe a stimulatory boost with fiscal policy — i.e. government spending — either. Germany could easily boost its government spending and stay within the reasonable debt cap of 3% of GDP. But that ain't happening: Calls for Germany to increase its investment to help its partners amounted to nothing more than a plea for a common fiscal policy, he asserted. For another thing, Weidmann pointed out, such expenditure would do little to help countries on Europe's periphery. ECB president Mario Draghi has hinted that the ECB will go for QE. BNP Paribas, Deutsche Bank, and Bank of America expect that the purchases of government debt will start in 2015.  Draghi's continued insistence that the ECB will add about €1 trillion ($1.25 trillion) to its balance sheet would probably need full QE. The bank is already buying some bonds and securities, but the markets in those assets are probably too small to reach such a big goal.  The ECB could push for QE without Weidmann, but it's previously been keen to get unanimous decisions, so as not to alienate big European economies like Germany. These sort of comments might make some analysts rethink the likelihood of QE for Europe.  FREE AppDownload
TOKYO (AP) — In a surprise, Japan said its economy, the world's 3rd-biggest following the U.S. and China, contracted 1.6 percent at an annual pace in the July-September quarter as consumer and corporate spending failed to regain momentum after a sales tax increase in April. Here are some implications for the global economy and for Japan following the unexpectedly dismal GDP report: A recession is generally regarded as two straight quarters of economic contraction, and Japan's economy shrank 7.1 percent in the April-June quarter, immediately following the sales tax hike. The slump comes as China's growth is slowing and Europe's economy is limping along. It could drag on Asia's growth if Japanese businesses hold back on investing abroad and companies and consumers buy fewer imports. The drop also adds to uncertainties in world financial markets. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe will likely delay another sales tax hike planned for October 2015, and use that decision and the bad GDP numbers as reasons to call snap elections, possibly as early as next month, to seek a public mandate on this course of action. Also, he may want to try to shore up support for the ruling Liberal Democratic Party amid the apparent weakness in the opposition. Japan's population is shrinking and aging, creating a smaller domestic market and placing heavier tax burdens on younger wage-earners. Apart from its automakers, Japan's many manufacturers have lost their innovative edge and have been shifting production offshore. Household incomes peaked more than a decade ago, and a growing share of workers struggle to make ends meet on part-time, contract work. After many years of deficit spending, Japan needs tax increases to get its battered government finances into better shape and cut its total public debt, which is more than twice the size of the economy and the largest among developed nations. A delay in the tax hike will slow that process. Abe is hoping that his "Abenomics" policies of lax monetary policy, fiscal spending and structural economic reforms will eventually get growth back on track. Analysts also expect him to announce a package worth about 3 trillion yen to 4 trillion yen ($26 billion to $35 billion) in extra spending on subsidies to low-income families, help for small and medium-sized companies and other measures meant to boost consumer spending and business investment. Since Monday's data is preliminary, with a revision due Dec. 8, things may not be as bad as the initial GDP reading suggests. Rising orders for machinery and other industrial equipment could lead to higher manufacturing output in coming months. Abe has promised drastic reforms of labor regulations, the tax system and the health industry, among other areas, to help improve Japan's competitiveness. But so far he's made little headway, while most companies have not passed on windfall gains from stock price increases and surging profits to their workers in the form of higher wages. If Abe dissolves the parliament this week for a general election in mid-December, work on some of those initiatives will be tabled, slowing progress still further. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/David Gray China's President Xi Jinping, center, with Australia's Prime Minister Tony Abbott, right, and members of parliament after he spoke in the House of Representatives at Parliament House in Canberra on Monday.China and Australia on Monday sealed a landmark free trade agreement more than a decade in the making, significantly expanding ties between the world's second-largest economy and one of Washington's closest allies in Asia. The deal, which Australia called the best ever between Beijing and a Western country, will open up Chinese markets to Australian farm exporters and the services sector while easing curbs on Chinese investment in resource-rich Australia. Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott and Chinese President Xi Jinping signed a memorandum of understanding clinching the agreement during a ceremony in parliament in Canberra. "This has been a 10-year journey, but we have finally made it," Abbott said. Xi praised the deal in an address to parliament, pledging to deepen cooperation with Australia while reaffirming China's willingness to resolve territorial disputes with its neighbors through diplomatic means. "As long as we have our long-term and the larger interests in mind, increase positive factors and remove obstacles we will certainly forge a closer and more comprehensive strategic partnership between us," he said. China is already Australia's top trading partner, with two-way trade of around A$150 billion ($130 billion) in 2013. On Monday they witnessed 14 commercial agreements between companies worth potentially more than A$20 billion ($17.56 billion). The leaders also pledged to work jointly to combat climate change by sharing technology aimed at improving the efficiency of coal usage. Australia needs China's help to transition from a reliance on exports of minerals such as coal and iron ore to expanding its food and agricultural exports to a growing Asian middle class, moving from a "mining boom" to a "dining boom". "[The agreement] should help to support Australia's great rebalancing act, from mining investment led growth towards the non-mining sectors of the economy," HSBC economist Paul Bloxham said in a note. Once the agreement is fully implemented, 95 percent of all its exports will enjoy duty free entry into China, Australia said. The agreement comes a day after U.S. President Barack Obama wrapped up a week-long tour through Asia, during which he sought to reassure Asia-Pacific allies wary over Washington's commitment towards its strategic realignment to the region. Washington and Beijing have competing visions for free trade in the Asia-Pacific region, with the U.S. pushing its 12-country Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) deal, which excludes China, and China mooting a Free Trade Area of the Asia-Pacific (FTAAP) framework. Washington was unable to secure a breakthrough on TPP during the trip.  Reuters The agreement gives Australian dairy farmers tariff-free access within four years to China's lucrative infant formula market, minus any of the "safeguard" caps that currently restrict competitors from New Zealand. "Australia has been marginalized from being a major exporter to China in the last few years, one of the reasons being that milk production (there) has been going down over the last decade," said Sandy Chen, dairy analyst at Rabobank in China. Wine makers, currently selling more than A$200 million worth of goods to China each year, will see tariffs eliminated over four years, while a 3 percent coking coal tariff will be removed immediately and a 6 percent tariff on thermal coal within two years. Dairy companies, including Canada’s Saputo Inc, which owns Warrnambool Cheese and Butter Factory Company Holdings Ltd, and Bega Cheese Ltd are among likely leading beneficiaries of the deal. Health and aged care providers, such as Japara Healthcare and private hospital operator Healthscope will get a jump on providers from Japan, the U.S. and Europe, while financial services companies ANZ Bank and IAG will get a boost from preferential access. Fortescue Metals Chairman Andrew Forrest said the agreement would become the most significant trade dealAustralia has ever done. "We can offer Chinese consumers the highest quality produce and Chinese consumers can be confident in the reliability of supply and food safety," he said. The agreement caps a string of breakthrough deals for Xi. Last week he jointly announced with Obama a groundbreaking plan to cap and eventually roll back carbon emissions, as well as reaching a "substantial conclusion" of a free trade deal with South Korea. The deal also caps a year of trade achievements for Abbott, following free trade agreements with Japan and South Korea. (Additional reporting by Sonali Paul in MELBOURNE, Jane Wardell and Lincoln Feast in SYDNEY and Fayen Wong in BEIJING; Editing by Nick Macfie and Jeremy Laurence)   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kim Kyung-HoonJapan's main stock index, the Nikkei, closed down 2.96% after some truly awful economic data. GDP figures were expected to show a modest bounce, with growth of 0.5%, but actually recorded a 0.4% fall in output, putting Japan in recession.  That's a strong signal that the tax hike that was brought in earlier this year by prime minister Shinzo Abe has had a bigger impact on the economy than expected.  The Nikkei has had a roller coaster year already. In the middle of October's global sell-off, it was down more than 9% on the start of 2014, followed by an explosion to a 7-year high as the Bank of Japan supercharged its QE programme. Abe doesn't seem too happy with the state of the current tax hike, and even less happy with what comes next: in less than a year, there's meant to be another increase, which would bring the tax to 10%. The increases were agreed in a landmark political deal in 2012, before Abe came to office, and it seems he may be about to call a snap election and run again on a platform of calling the hike off. Here's what Societe Generale said even before the awful readings came out: The predicted Japan Q3 GDP growth of 0.5% quarter-on-quarter should be weak enough to persuade PM Abe to postpone the second Consumption Tax hike, planned for October 2015, and probably call an early general election as well. If 0.5% growth was weak enough to prompt the election, a 0.4% drop almost definitely is. And according to Chris Scicluna at Daiwa Capital Markets, Abe and his LDP party are likely to win again.    Tomorrow, the Prime Minister will be briefed about the conclusions of Economy Minister Amari’s recent ‘expert’ discussion panels on the consumption tax hike. And, if the media is to be believed, that will lead him subsequently to call for a delay to next year’s consumption tax hike and announce a snap general election – most likely to be held on 14 December. Given the opposition’s disarray, the main question then will be related simply to the eventual size of the ruling LDP’s majority. FREE AppDownload
ReutersCustomers in an H&M store.STOCKHOLM (Reuters) - Hennes &amp; Mauritz &lt;hmb.st&gt;, the world's second-biggest fashion retailer, posted on Monday a 14 percent rise in October sales from a year ago, beating forecasts. Analysts polled by Reuters had on average predicted a 10 percent rise. The Swedish budget fashion firm, which has the bulk of business in Europe, has said that in September, when sales growth landed at 8 percent, many customers delayed purchases of cold-weather gear amid unusually warm weather. (Reporting by Anna Ringstrom) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersAustralian Governor-General Peter Cosgrove, right, with China’s President Xi Jinping and his wife, Peng Liyuan, as she holds a wombat in the grounds of Government House in Canberra. China and Australia on Monday signed a declaration of intent on a landmark free trade deal more than a decade in the making, opening up markets worth billions to Australia and loosening restrictions on Chinese investment. The deal will open up Chinese markets to Australian farm exporters and the services sector while easing curbs on Chinese investment in resource-rich Australia. Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott and Chinese President Xi Jinping, together with a retinue of government ministers, signed the memorandum of understanding during a ceremony in parliament in Canberra. Australia is attempting to transition from a reliance on exports of minerals such as coal and iron ore to expanding its food and agricultural exports to a growing Asian middle class, moving from a "mining boom" to a "dining boom". China is already Australia's top trading partner, with two-way trade of around A$150 billion ($130 billion) in 2013. Paul Glasson, the National vice President of the Australia China Business Council, hailed the much-improved access for up to 40 service industries including health, law and aged care, as well as for agricultural products such as dairy, rice, wheat, wool and cotton. Once the agreement is fully implemented, Australian Trade Minister Andrew Robb said in a statement, 99.9 percent of Australia's current resource, energy and manufacturing exports will enjoy duty free entry into China. Xi, in a warm address to parliament, pledged to deepen cooperation with Australia and reaffirmed China's willingness to resolve territorial disputes with its neighbors through diplomatic means. "During my visit, the two sides have decided to elevate our bilateral relations into a comprehensive strategic partnership and announced the substantial completion of FTA negotiations," Xi said. "...The Chinese Government is ready to enhance dialogue and cooperation with relevant countries to jointly maintain freedom of navigation and safety of maritime rules," he said.     DAIRY, WINE, MINERALS The agreement gives Australian dairy farmers tariff-free access within four years to China's lucrative infant formula market, minus any of the "safeguard" caps that currently restrict competitors from New Zealand. "Australia has been marginalized from being a major exporter to China in the last few years, one of the reasons being that milk production (there) has been going down over the last decade," said Sandy Chen, dairy analyst at Rabobank in China. Wine makers, currently selling more than A$200 million worth of goods to China each year despite tariffs of between 14 and 20 percent, will also see tariffs eliminated over four years. Tariffs on horticultural products, seafood and other goods accounting for 93 per cent of Australian exports by value will also be reduced to zero by 2019. Under the deal, a 3 percent coking coal tariff will be removed immediately and a 6 percent tariff on thermal coal within two years. Robb described the agreement as the most favorable ever granted by China to a Western country, especially in the services sector. "The Australian government has secured the best-ever market access provided to a foreign country by China on services, with enormous scope to build on an export market already worth A$7 billion," he said in a statement. Hundreds of protesters gathered at Parliament House on ahead of Xi's arrival. Huge banners in English and Chinese exhorted the leader to "Free Tibet" and end what they called the persecution of religious sects such as Falun Gong. Xi was in Canberra after attending the G20 leaders' summit at the weekend in Brisbane. His visit was also scheduled to include stops in Sydney and Tasmanian state capital Hobart. The free trade agreement caps a string of breakthrough deals for Xi. Last week he jointly announced with U.S. President Barack Obama a groundbreaking plan to cap and eventually roll back carbon emissions, as well as reaching a "substantial conclusion" of a free trade deal with South Korea. The deal also caps a year of trade achievements for Abbott, following free trade agreements with Japan and South Korea.     (Additional reporting by Sonali Paul in MELBOURNE, Jane Wardell and Lincoln Feast in SYDNEY and Fayen Wong in BEIJING; Editing by Nick Macfie) FREE AppDownload
Adnan Abidi/Reuters Facebook CEO Mark ZuckerbergLondon (AFP) - Facebook is preparing a new office version of its social networking site to compete with other sites like LinkedIn, the Financial Times reported on Monday.  "Facebook is secretly working on a new website called 'Facebook at Work'" that would allow users to "chat with colleagues, connect with professional contacts and collaborate over documents", it said. Facebook last month reported its quarterly profit nearly doubled to $802 million (640 million euros) but saw its stock pounded after outlining a plan to invest heavily in the future instead of revelling in short-term riches. "We are going to continue preparing for the future by investing aggressively, connecting everyone, understanding the world, and building the next-generation in computing platforms," Facebook founder and chief Mark Zuckerberg said then. "We have a long journey ahead," he said. Facebook, which has 1.35 billion monthly active users worldwide, was set up in 2004 by Zuckerberg with fellow students at Harvard University who wanted to set it up as a college networking site. The site has been seeking to broaden its offerings, unveiling an application that lets people chat anonymously in virtual "rooms," evoking the chat rooms from the early days of the Internet. It is also testing a feature that lets users of the leading social network make purchases by simply pressing an on-screen "Buy" button. Facebook completed its multibillion-dollar deal for mobile messaging application WhatsApp last month.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA recalled Chevy Cobalt ignition switch is seen at Raymond Chevrolet in Antioch(Reuters) - The deadline to file claims under General Motors Co's faulty ignition-switch compensation program has been extended by one month to Jan. 31, 2015, the program's administrator, Kenneth Feinberg, announced on Sunday. The notice of the extension has already been sent to almost four and a half million current and prior owners of the eligible vehicles, the program, Feinberg said in a statement. An additional one month extension is being implemented "out of an abundance of caution", he said. Last week, a car-safety advocate urged a more active approach to finding cases of injury or death. Clarence Ditlow, executive director of the Center for Auto Safety, said in a letter to Feinberg that he should expand outreach efforts and scour federal car-safety databases for accidents in recalled vehicles to determine whether the switch was to blame for additional injuries or deaths. The program, GM Ignition Compensation Claims Resolution Facility, which began accepting claims on Aug. 1, had received 1,851 claims for deaths and serious injuries linked to the switch as of Nov. 7.  (Reporting by Rama Venkat Raman in Bangalore; Editing by Muralikumar Anantharaman) FREE AppDownload
