Ethan Miller/GettyGood morning! The RBA announces its monthly cash rate decision today. Here’s what you need to know… 1. US stocks bounced back in the first trading session of the week, with the Dow up 0.5% and the Nasdaq and S&amp;P 500 up 0.8%. ASX futures are four points up ahead of the market open in Australia, where stocks fell yesterday following the weaker US close on Friday. Across Asia, stocks were mixed, but Shanghai warrants some attention after ripping 1.73% higher to 2,223, close to one-year highs. So the global picture: after things looked dicey for a couple of days late last week, it looks like normal service has resumed for now. 2. But is the wolf finally coming? Jonathan Krinsky at MKM Partners uses the analogy of the boy crying wolf to describe the market activity over the past year and a half. Small falls in the market represented buying opportunities as stocks continually reversed direction soon to make new highs. The big question now is, when the S&amp;P hits 1900, will it be another low on the way to record highs, or will it be the start of a breakdown. Here’s his chart: 3. It’s RBA day. Australia’s central bank releases its monthly cash rate decision and accompanying statement at 2.30pm AEST. There’s no change expected to interest rates, but as usual the market will be paying close attention to the statement, especially on whether the bank’s board still believes a period of stability in interest rates is the best course. The decision follows Australian trade data, with the balance expected negative, out at 11.30am AEST. 4. Israel and Hamas have agreed a 72-hour ceasefire. If it holds – previous attempts have failed – it could mean we’re at the end Israel’s Operation Protective Edge targeting Hamas infrastructure in Gaza, which has left some 1800 dead, the majority civilians. Overnight, an IDF soldier started a Reddit “AMA” session and discussed his experience, and his thoughts on how it will play out. Compelling reading. 5. Australia’s Future Fund is now worth more than $100 billion after turning in a strong year – returns were 13.9% over the past year, and 10.3% over the past three years. But there’s a problem: the public sector superannuation liabilities, which the fund was set up to cover, have ballooned, and will total $200 billion by 2020. That explains why chairman Peter Costello is talking about the fund’s singular focus on performance over the next six years. 6. McDonald’s says its results will be affected by a scandal in China surrounding one of its suppliers. OSI group was shut down last month for selling out-of-date and rotting meat to, among others, McDonald’s and Yum! Brands, which runs KFC and pizza hut. Like Yum,McDonald’s says the exact impact on the bottom line can’t be determined, but the affected market accounts for 10% of global sales. 7. Android web traffic has overtaken iOS in the US. It’s an important milestone, because while Android devices have been outselling Apple devices for some time, it appeared users of the Android platform weren’t as engaged with their devices as iPhone and iPad owners. 8. Messaging app Yo picked a fight with what it calls clones last week, lodging a number of copyright infringement notices with Apple. Aussie-based app Oi!, which also enables users to send one-word messages got sucked into the confusing row. But it appears Yo founder Or Arbel has now stepped away from the legal letters, telling Business Insider last night the complaint against Oi! no longer stands. 9. Sandra Bullock is killing it. Thanks to “Gravity”, she made $51 million last year, a surprising stretch ahead of Jennifer Lawrence at $34 million, according to Forbes. 10. National Geographic photo contest winners are out. You can see them all here. Here’s just one of the striking images: Have a cracking day. I’m on Twitter: @colgo Follow Business Insider Australia on Facebook, Twitter, and LinkedIn This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Elon Musk's aerospace startup has settled on the location of its planned commercial spaceport: Brownsville, Texas, an economically struggling stretch of Texas's Gulf coastline. SpaceX is building its launch facility thanks to nearly $13 million in incentives from the Texas state government, including $2.3 million from the Texas Enterprise Fund. Texas governor Rick Perry introduced the Fund in 2003 as a "final incentive tool" for securing investments in the state that would otherwise be in jeopardy. The SpaceX port arguably falls into that category: as of June of 2013, the company was "tight-lipped" as to the final location of its spaceport, and was looking at sites in Florida, Georgia, and Puerto Rico. But Texas proved especially willing to court Musk, even aside from the existence of a fund that was specially dedicated to bringing over investments like his. The Texas legislature passed two bills aimed at clearing the way for SpaceX. In late 2013, Perry signed a bill that would close a stretch of public beach during launches. That same year, the legislature passed another bill which altered state noise regulations in order to allow for a spaceport's activities. These measures were itself the result of personal efforts on Musk's part. He addressed the Texas Legislature's House Appropriations Committee in March of 2013, arguing SpaceX was worth the economic incentives that Texas could potentially offer it. Musk also met with Rick Perry in June of 2012. SpaceX has donated to a number of Texas politicians and political action committees, including $5,000 to the Republican-allied Longhorn PAC, according to the watchdog website OpenSecrets.org. Musk's aerospace startup is doing what any growing and ambitious company would: currying favor with decision makers, lobbying politicians, and taking the best possible deal it can find. The spaceport is part of SpaceX's larger strategy of establishing itself as a viable alternative to legacy defense companies like Lockheed Martin and Boeing. While the two aren't directly related, the company's announcement comes at the same time that it's suing the U.S. government over the Air Force's allegedly non-competitive bidding process for dozens of satellite launches. This isn't the only recent milestone for SpaceX. On July 11, the Air Force certified SpaceX's Falcon 9 rockets to carry the branch's payloads. And SpaceX plans on launching a telecommunications satellite for a Hong Kong-based company on August 5th. FREE AppDownload
flickr/Michael DorauschFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Here Are Two Creative Solutions For Parents Who Still Need To Support Their Adult Children (Wall Street Journal) For parents who still need to support children in their 30s, 40s, or 50s, often it will come down to either investing in retirement savings or giving to their adult offspring. In the Wall Street Journal, Kelly Graves from Carroll Financial Associates suggested an alternative to depleting retirement funds, while still providing support for children. "Another approach is for the parents to guarantee a bank loan instead of loaning the money directly. This can be useful for the parents because it doesn't deplete their assets. But it requires more documentation, and the banks typically won't offer a personal loan like this for a term longer than 10 years. In my experience, a middle-tier, local bank is more willing to make these kinds of out-of-the-box loans than a big national chain," Graves writes. Alternately, parents can "make a loan that serves as an advance on the child's inheritance," according to Graves. "Even though it's a loan, the chances are your client is never going to see that money again in their lifetime, so you have to take it out of the equation for retirement planning purposes." Bill Gross Just Saw His 15th Straight Month Of Outflows (Business Insider) Pacific Investment Management Company's Total Return Fund, run by Bill Gross, has lost $830 million in its 15th straight month of outflows. At the end of July, assets totaled $223 billion. "Marketwatch reports the fund returned negative 0.5%, underperforming the benchmark Barclays Aggregate bond fund, which returned negative 0.3%. The fund has underperformed 72% of its peers through July," BI's Rob Wile wrote. "However, it's topped 87% of its peers in the past three months. And as Bloomberg recently reported, nine of PIMCO's 15 largest mutual funds are beating at least 75% of peers YTD." More Millennials Are Starting To Save Early, Investing In Stocks And Retirement Plans (Bloomberg) According to a retirement study, millennials have started their savings at age 22, compared to previous generations at 27, or 35. Though this generation is considered to avoid risks and stocks, their actions are saying otherwise, Bloomberg's Victoria Stilwell reported. "The increased use of defined contribution retirement plans -- especially those with automatic enrollment features or options that reduce risk as an employee ages -- is keeping millennials invested in equities in a way that flies under their risk radars, said Jean Young, the Valley Forge, Pennsylvania-based lead author of Vanguard Group’s How America Saves report," Stilwell wrote. Stilwell also reported that millennials are cutting back on buying houses and credit card spending.  A Better Way To Think About Retirement Is To Focus On Expenses, Not Withdrawal (Financial Planning) In an interview with Financial Planning, Michael Falk of Focus Consulting Group said there's a better way to think about retirement than just withdrawal rate plans. He said most people focus on building a bigger and bigger accumulation of wealth, with a certain percent withdrawal. But in order to do that, people need to make a trade off with present day life, which many aren't willing to do. "You want to start from the bottom and work up. We don't talk about a 4% rule, a 3% rule, a 5% rule. What we talk about is covering your fixed expenses. Those could be debts, those could be your electric bill. And then, after you cover your fixed expenses, we talk about your discretionary spending," Falk said. "And then, how you invest the rest of your money, assuming you have some assets still remaining, most people still do at that point, then you can take risk with them, and if the market goes against you, it doesn't do anything to your lifestyle." Financial Advisors Are Less Confident And Optimistic About The Economy (WealthManagement.com) According to a Wealthmanagement.com Advisor Confidence Index, financial advisors' confidence in the economy decreased 3% in July, mainly when talking about the next six months. However, many have different ideas on what exactly will happen in the market.  "Many of the advisors polled said they were nervous growth in the stock market was outpacing the economy," Wealth Management reported. "Several mentioned the phasing out of the Federal Reserve’s bond buying program, slated to end completely in October, as having a significant effect on the markets, though there was little consensus on how so."   FREE AppDownload
Douglas Elliman Real EstateA former executive at the investment management firm Sanford C. Bernstein is putting her Park Avenue apartment up for sale.  Marilyn Fedak, Sanford Bernstein's former chief investment officer and executive VP, and her husband Dr. Michael Fedak, are selling their home after 17 years. According to the New York Times, Mr. and Mrs. Fedak decided to sell after spending much more time in Boca Raton and Greenwich, than in the New York penthouse. The Fedaks will keep a smaller apartment in the same building, which they bought in 2003.  The penthouse for sale is a 3 bedroom, 2.5 bath apartment that rings up to $11.5 million. It includes 3,300 square feet of indoor space, and a 3,000 square feet rooftop terrace. Located at 655 Park Avenue on the Upper East Side, the apartment terrace has a beautiful view of the New York City skyline.  FREE AppDownload
Over the weekend, troubled Portuguese bank Banco Espirito Santo (BES) was rescued. Portugal announced that it would spend €4.9 billion to rescue and reorganize the bank, splitting the company into a "good bank" and "bad bank." Under the plan, Banco Espirito Santo's junior bond holders will be subject to the steep losses incurred by BES's exposure to the Espirito Santo, a conglomerate that has exposure to real estate and hotel holdings, among other things. Claus Vistesen at Pantheon Macroeconomics, however, notes that the cost of bank failures, "almost always turns out higher than initially estimated," adding that he sees no reason this should be different. In addition to levying heavy investor losses, dealing with BES is also putting Portugal's financial system in a precarious spot. "The stakes remain high for Portugal, however, as it is far from certain that the full contribution of shareholder equity and subordinated debt is bad enough to wind down the bad assets. Further losses would almost surely fall on the government as the new owner of the bank," Vistesen writes. And so the risk of a broader fall out from the BES situation still exists, but at least for now, this chart from Pantheon shows just how steep the losses will be for BES investors. Equity holders have been nearly wiped out and Banco Espirito Santo's subordinated debt is trading at about 30 cents on the dollar. Pantheon Macro FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersVanoli, President of Argentina's market regulator CNV, speaks during the Reuters Latin American Investment summit in Buenos AiresBy Eliana Raszewski and Sarah Marsh BUENOS AIRES (Reuters) - Argentina's markets watchdog on Monday launched an investigation into possible unlawful speculation by holdout creditors whose litigation against the country for repayment of their defaulted bonds pushed it into a new default last week. The government also reiterated its fierce criticism of the mediator in debt talks with the holdout hedge funds for being "biased" and a "spokesman of the vulture funds". Local markets were mixed on Monday as players waited for new signs of how soon Argentina might reach a deal with holdouts in order to exit default. Argentine bonds fell slightly while the Merval  stock index flickered up and down. The head of Argentina's Securities Commission Alejandro Vanoli said it had asked its U.S. counterpart for information on trade of Argentina's sovereign debt and credit default swaps (CDS), derivatives used to insure against default. The watchdog wanted to check if holdouts who rejected Argentina's restructuring in the wake of its 2002 default held or traded CDS whilst at the same time took part in negotiations with Argentina which could trigger a default. "The use of insider information, which would be the case here, and market manipulation are crimes in Argentina, they are crimes in the United States, and they imply economic sanctions and eventually criminal sanctions," Vanoli told a news conference. Representatives for the holdout investors were not immediately available for comment. Argentina missed a deadline at midnight last Wednesday to make a coupon payment on a restructured bond after failing to reach a deal with holdouts. A U.S. court had ruled Argentina could only service its exchange bonds if it at the same time paid holdouts in full their defaulted debt. On Friday, a committee facilitated by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association voted unanimously to call the missed coupon payment a "credit event", triggering a payout process on CDS worth an estimated $1 billion. "We now think a settlement in 2015 is the most likely path although cannot exclude something longer," said Stuart Culverhouse, head of research at Exotix, a frontier markets broker in London. U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa said last week Argentina must continue negotiations with mediator Daniel Pollack to reach a deal with holdouts. Argentina's Cabinet Chief Jorge Capitanich on Monday reiterated its criticism of the lawyer. "We consider he has been incompetent.. that he has been manifestly partial and definitively does not fulfill the role a mediator should," Capitanich said in his daily briefing. This default strikes a contrast to the last one in 2002, which occurred during an economic and financial meltdown that plunged millions into poverty and saw dozens killed in riots. While Latin America's No. 3 economy entered a mild recession at the start of 2014, its banks are sturdy, the state is solvent and the streets of Buenos Aires are calm. Underscoring the fact it is willing to pay its debts, Argentina said last week it had made the first payment of its debt arrears to the Paris Club of major creditor nations under an agreement struck earlier this year. The club said on Monday it had received the $642 million tranche "as scheduled".  (Additional reporting by Leigh Thomas in Paris, Nessi Hernan in Buenos Aires and Dan Bases in New York; editing by Andrew Hay) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersVisitors walk past the logo of Airbus Group during the e-Aircraft Day at the Bordeaux Merignac airportBy Tim Hepher PARIS (Reuters) - Airbus  overtook Boeing  in unadjusted aircraft orders for 2014 after last month's Farnborough Airshow, but continued to lag its U.S. rival when taking into account cancellations, company data showed on Monday. The Airbus Group planemaking subsidiary won 980 aircraft orders between January and July, and said it had 705 net orders, beating its newly introduced net order target for the year. Airbus has said its haul of orders at Farnborough marked its best ever performance at the UK's biennial aerospace event. Boeing, whose officials argue net orders are the most sensible benchmark for the fiercely contested order race between the world's largest planemakers, reported 837 gross orders and 783 net sales after cancellations between January 1 and July 29. On July 31, Boeing added an order for 40 wide-body jets from Japan's All Nippon Airways . Airbus has added 8 wide-body orders to Iberia parent IAG  since its latest monthly order sheet was compiled. In an effort to reassure investors following a rise in the number of cancellations and amid growing industry concerns over a cyclical downturn, Airbus said last week that these included conversions between models and showed no underlying weakness. It told analysts that some cancelled current-generation A320s would be replaced by orders for a revamped version of the same model, due to make its maiden flight in September. In its latest monthly order table, Airbus set out in more detail the way its order book has been evolving. It reported 44 new cancellations of its A320 model in July. Of these, 39 represented conversions between the two different models of A320, including 23 for AirAsia  and 16 for Latam Airlines Group , it said in a table. However, a comparison of monthly data suggested that Latam had converted 12 aircraft and cancelled another 4. Airbus declined further comment, saying it did not discuss decisions by its customers. Airbus confirmed the cancellation of six A380 superjumbo aircraft for Japanese airline Skymark Airlines . The latest totals exclude 127 provisional orders for the newest version of its wide-body A330 jet, the A330neo, which was launched in Farnborough. Firm contracts are expected to be negotiated in the coming weeks and months. The latest tally included 40 out of 43 aircraft announced as additional plane orders for BOC Aviation at the air show. Of these, three had already been placed in the order book in May. On top of orders announced at the air show, Airbus reported a sale of 45 A320-family aircraft to at least one undisclosed customer. The data also showed that Australia's Qantas  had cancelled five A320 aircraft. Industry sources have said that approximately that number of aircraft, assigned to Qantas unit Jetstar, have been sitting in Toulouse for some time awaiting delivery as the airline struggles to get regulatory approval for a Hong Kong venture. Airbus declined comment. Qantas was not immediately available for comment. Airbus switched to a net order target for the year with its first-half results published last week, saying net orders should exceed deliveries and that these should be around the same as the 626 deliveries seen in 2013. Airbus said it had delivered 352 planes between January and July, including 16 A380 superjumbo aircraft. In the latest period for which Boeing delivery figures are available, the U.S. planemaker handed over 342 aircraft between January and June. Boeing targets 715-725 deliveries in 2014.  (Reporting by Tim Hepher; Editing by Blaise Robinson and James Regan) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ruben Sprich Marc R. Benioff, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Salesforce.com, speaks during a session at the annual meeting of the World Economic Forum (WEF) in Davos January 22, 2014.While some tech CEOs, including Facebook head Mark Zuckerberg and  Google cofounders Larry Page and Sergey Brin, have opted to receive a $1 annual salary, others are still bringing in the big bucks.  The New York Times recently put together a list of the 200 highest-paid CEOs in America. Many of them run tech companies. Only chief executives leading companies with a market capitalization of at least $1 billion were considered.  While longtime CEOs like Larry Ellison and Marc Benioff are no strangers to lists like this one, there were some surprises.  FREE AppDownload
Leigh Vogel/Getty1,436.45%.  That's the return on shares of media company Gannett since they bottomed at $2.14 on March 9, 2009, the same day the S&amp;P 500 bottomed out at 676, through the end of last week, when Gannett closed at $32.88. And on Monday, Gannett added another 4.4%, closing at $34.32.  This incredible run highlights one of the many ways that amid a huge rally in stocks since the bottom of the financial crisis, a number of individual stocks, which aren't necessarily the sexiest names, have had rallies that far outpace the 180% gain seen for the S&amp;P 500.  To put Gannett's rally in some hard dollar terms, $100 invested in shares of Gannett in March 2009 would be worth more than $1,400 today. Now, of course, no one buys exactly at the bottom or sells exactly at the top, and factoring in various fees that are incurred when actually buying and selling stocks, this is just a theoretical exercise.  But in 2009, common shares of Gannett were effectively left for dead: In the five years ahead of the stock's bottom, shares had lost more than 97% percent of their value.  The newspaper industry still has its problems, but Gannett has managed to diversify itself, with the company in the second quarter earning two-third of adjusted EBITDA from its broadcasting and digital segments.  Here's the incredible performance of Gannett through the end of last week. In chart form.  Yahoo Finance FREE AppDownload
APShares of insurance giant AIG were up better than 2% in after hours trade after the company reported second quarter earnings that topped expectations. For the second quarter, AIG reported after-tax operating income per share of $1.25, topping analysts' estimates for $1.05. The company also reported Q2 net premiums earned totaled $8.53 billion, up 2% from the $8.35 billion earned a year ago.  During the quarter, AIG repurchased $1.1 billion worth of its common stock, and said that $1.5 billion remains under its current share repurchase authorization.  This quarter also marks the end of an era for the company, as it is outgoing CEO Bob Benmosche's final quarter at the helm of the company he took over in August 2009 after it nearly went bust during the financial crisis.  "As we look towards the future, I have every confidence that [incoming CEO Peter Hancock] will lead AIG to even more sustainable prosperity in the days and years ahead," Benmosche said. "Under Peter’s leadership, I have no doubt that we will continue advancing our core strategies and priorities with integrity and a profound sense of the responsibility that AIG exceed the expectations — financial, regulatory, and community — of all of our stakeholders." FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA banner for American International Group Inc hangs on the facade of the New York Stock Exchange(Reuters) - American International Group Inc  reported a 12.5 percent rise in quarterly profit, helped by strong performance across all its key businesses. Net income attributable to AIG rose to $3.07 billion, or $2.10 per share, in the second quarter ended June 30 from $2.73 billion, or $1.84 per share, a year earlier. The U.S. insurer's net income for the quarter included a $1.4 billion after-tax gain on the sale of ILFC. On an operating basis, the company earned $1.83 billion, or $1.25 per share. The company reported after-tax operating income of $1.12 per share a year earlier.  (Reporting by Luciana Lopez in New York and Avik Das in Bangalore; Editing by Sriraj Kalluvila) FREE AppDownload
Associated PressEl Pollo Loco shares have been soaring since debuting on the market last month.  Investors believe that the fast-casual chicken chain could be the next Chipotle.  El Pollo Loco will grow even bigger in the coming years, according to a recent report by Moody's Investors Service.  Here are a few reasons the restaurant is outpacing the competition.  1. Popularity with Hispanic population. Hispanics are set to outnumber whites in California, one of El Pollo Loco's key markets, by the end of the year. The U.S. Hispanic population is also growing, giving the chicken restaurant an advantage, according to Moody's. 2. More casual than sit-down, fancier than fast casual. El Pollo Loco has positioned itself between fast-casual chains, like Chipotle, and casual restaurants like Applebee's or Olive Garden, according to Moody's. This is a sweet spot in the market, according to Moody's. "This strategy has allowed the company to take on a blend of QSR and fast casual attributes including quick counter service, drive-thru functionality, higher quality healthier food offerings and a balanced day-part between lunch and dinner with attractive price points," Moody's analysts write.  3. Healthy offerings. American consumers are increasingly watching their calorie counts, and want to know where their food comes from. El Pollo Loco cooks whole chickens in-restaurant for hours, which is more appealing than a processed patty or nugget. The restaurant also offers a variety of fresh salsas and veggies.  4. Room to grow. El Pollo Loco has successfully introduced new menu items, such as fresh tortas and signature salads. The menu is relatively simple, meaning that the restaurant could easily add more menu items without burdening workers, according to Moody's.  5. Smart expansion plan. El Pollo Loco is opening several new stores in California, Nevada, and Texas this year, according to Moody's. After that, the company plans to grow its store footprint by 8 to 10%. That means that the company will be bringing in more business, but not expanding too quickly.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Dylan MartinezSome 600 balloons emblazoned with a poppy and the name of a fallen soldier flutter in the sky during the "Short Step" ceremony, to mark the 100th anniversary of the outbreak of World War One.Stocks rose on the first day of the trading week after the market endured its worst performance in two years last week.  First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Monday: 1. The economic calendar is light this week, with just the July ISM New York report featuring on the calendar. The report came in at 68.1, better than last month's 60.5 reading, as both the prices paid and job growth sub-indices hit multi-month highs.  2. The Federal Reserve released its latest Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey, which showed a "continued easing of lending standards and terms for many types of loan categories amid a broad-based pickup in loan demand."  3. Amid last week's sell-off and a market that continues to prepare itself for the Fed raising interest rates, high-yield bonds have made their way to front of investors' minds. Alain Bokobza and his team at Societe Generale alerted us to this chart showing the massive outflows from high-yield bond funds. The Wall Street Journal's Katy Burne also detailed some of the issues facing high yield bond investors, including liquidity concerns in the face of accelerating fund redemptions.  4. General Motors disclosed that its financing arm, GM Financial, has received a subpoena from the Justice Department related to subprime loan originations. This notice comes as many wonder about the pace of auto sales and the health of the auto lending market, which at least one analyst has said has a dark side that is leading to increasing sales and decreasing loan quality.  5. According to data from Morningstar, "Bond King" Bill Gross suffered his 15th straight month of outflows from his firm's flagship bond fund, the PIMCO Total Return Fund. Morningstar said that total assets in the Total Return Fund were down to $223 billion at the end of July from $225 billion at the end of the previous month.  6. For-profit college operator ITT Educational saw shares fall more than 40% after the company disclosed that a real estate deal that would've seen the company sell 24 parcels of land for about $120 million fell through. The failed sale is yet another blow to the company which has suffered this year, along with the broader for-profit education space, as many, including Mark Cuban, continue to predict an ugly demise for the ballooning cost of higher education.  7. McDonald's said that its sales in China and Japan are experiencing a "significant negative impact" following a scandal with a food supplier in China. The announcement from McDonald's follows a similar disclosure from Yum! Brands last month, which said that the impact from the controversy on its sales remained to be seen, but could threaten the company achieving its full-year sales goals.  Don't Miss: There's A Huge Shortage Of Truck Drivers In America — Here's Why The Problem Is Only Getting Worse » FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA woman walks past the Time Warner Center near Columbus Circle in Manhattan, New YorkBy Jennifer Saba (Reuters) - Rupert Murdoch's Twenty-First Century Fox Inc is expected to make an aggressive case for merging with Time Warner Inc during its quarterly earnings call on Wednesday, though people familiar with the company's plans have said it would not use that forum to raise its bid. Time Warner is due to report its financial results on Wednesday as well, marking the first time executives from both companies will publicly speak since the offer was first revealed on July 16. It will be an opportunity for Time Warner Chief Executive Jeff Bewkes to defend his record for shareholder value. Fox's Chief Operating Officers Chase Carey and James Murdoch will have the chance to discuss the more than $1 billion in cost savings and powerful combination of cable networks and sports programing. It is unclear whether Rupert Murdoch, chairman and CEO of Fox, will make an appearance given the stakes. Fox has offered to buy Time Warner for about $80 billion, or about $85 per share, in a mix of cash and stock. Time Warner turned it down, saying its plan to go it alone "is superior to any proposal" from Fox. Though Fox is expected to raise its offer it will not rise beyond the range of $90 to $95 per share, a person familiar with Fox told Reuters on July 25. The timing of another offer is unclear. Some analysts have said that an even higher bid would be needed to win over Time Warner management and shareholders. A spokesman for Fox declined to comment. A potential tie-up would create one of the world's largest media conglomerates, dominating content production with two major studios, a stable of cable networks like Fox News and TNT, broadcast networks and pay-TV channel HBO. Faced with a rash of media distribution mergers, such as Comcast Corp's proposed $45 billion takeover of Time Warner Cable and AT&amp;T's $48.5 billion deal to buy DirecTV, programing creators are responding with their own potential deals to add clout for negotiations with cable and satellite distributors and new entrants like Netflix and Amazon. Bernstein Research analyst Todd Juenger wrote in a note to investors on Friday that it would be in the interest of both companies to ink a deal. He and his team spoke to hundreds of Fox and Time Warner shareholders and concluded that "most people are supportive." "To reject the $85 a share offer, you would have to believe that Time Warner would get to $95 a share on its own," he wrote. "We don't find very many people who think it will be easy to get there." A Time Warner spokesman declined to comment. With a backdrop of a rebuffed deal, Time Warner will be on the hook to explain why it is better off going solo. Time Warner has outpaced its peers with 15.2 percent earnings per share growth for the past 5 years, nearly double the median for its competitors, according to Thomson Reuters data. "Can Time Warner demonstrate to shareholders that left alone, the value to shareholders would be meaningfully greater than the $85 bid on the table from Fox?" Alan Gould, managing director at Evercore Partners Inc, asked in a research note. For now, Gould pointed out that there does not seem to be an alternative bidder.  (Reporting by Jennifer Saba; Editing by Richard Chang) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe logo for LinkedIn Corporation, a social networking networking website for people in professional occupations, is shown in Mountain ViewBy Amanda Becker WASHINGTON (Reuters) - LinkedIn Corp  has agreed to pay nearly $6 million to more than 350 current and former employees after a U.S. Department of Labor investigation found the online career-networking company violated the country's wage law. In a settlement announced by the Labor Department on Monday, LinkedIn will pay more than $3.3 million in back overtime wages and more than $2.5 million in damages to workers at company branches in California, Illinois, Nebraska and New York. LinkedIn has "shown a great deal of integrity by fully cooperating with investigators and stepping up to the plate without hesitation to help make workers whole," said David Weil, the administrator of the Labor Department's Wage and Hour Division, in a statement. A LinkedIn spokeswoman said that talent is the company's No. 1 priority and they were eager to work closely with the Labor Department to reach the settlement. "This was a function of not having the right tools in place for a small subset of our sales force to track hours properly," said Shannon Stubo, vice president of corporate communications. The Labor Department said LinkedIn failed to record and compensate workers for all hours worked, violating provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA). In addition to the settlement payment, LinkedIn will train all employees that "off-the-clock work" is prohibited for all non-exempt workers, the Labor Department said. The FLSA requires that non-exempt workers, who are not salaried managers, be paid the federal minimum hourly wage of $7.25 plus overtime pay for hours worked past 40 in a given work week. LinkedIn's shares were trading at $203.55 on Monday, up 0.9 percent on a day when advancing stocks outnumbered declining ones by a ratio of 3 to 2 on the New York Stock Exchange. Last week, the company reported a 47 percent jump in second-quarter revenue, surpassing analysts' expectations. The website's membership jumped by a third to 313 million in the quarter that ended June 30.  (Reporting by Amanda Becker; Editing by Kevin Drawbaugh and Jan Paschal) FREE AppDownload
You are taking a nice hike through the woods and all of a sudden you find yourself face-to-face with a bear. What do you do? Be sure to prepare yourself the next time you hit the trail in bear country.  Produced by Justin Gmoser. Follow BI Video: On Twitter  
Thomson ReutersThe logo of French low-cost telecoms provider Iliad is pictured during the company 2013 annual results presentation in ParisBy Harro Ten Wolde and Philipp Halstrick FRANKFURT (Reuters) - Deutsche Telekom  has serious doubts about the overall attractiveness of a bid by French telecom group Iliad  for its U.S. mobile unit, despite lower regulatory hurdles than a rival offer, said two people close to the company. Iliad made a surprise bid on Thursday for 56.6 percent of T-Mobile US , the fourth-largest carrier in the United States, at $33 per share, crashing deal talks between Deutsche Telekom and Sprint  that have been going since last year. "This offer is not serious enough to walk away from Sprint/Softbank," said one of the people. "It is better to have a bird in the hand rather than two in the bush, but the question is at what price? And this discount compared to the Sprint/Softbank offer seems too high," the person said. Sprint Corp, the third-place U.S. mobile carrier, has been planning an offer that values T-Mobile at roughly $40 per share, sources earlier told Reuters, though that bid is likely to face more regulatory challenges as it would whittle down the number of big players in the market to three from four. The German operator has been looking for a way to exit the United States for more than three years because it sees T-Mobile's fourth-place position behind Verizon, AT&amp;T, and Softbank's Sprint as limiting long-term profitability. Although T-Mobile's aggressive challenger strategy has helped it win customers in recent quarters, Deutsche Telekom remains concerned that its lack of low-frequency spectrum and fixed-line infrastructure hampers its ability to compete. Both sources said Deutsche Telekom Chief Executive Tim Hoettges does not see Iliad's bid as attractive because he is skeptical that it would be able to cut out $10 billion in costs from the business as promised. Deutsche Telekom also doubts that T-Mobile under Iliad's ownership could mount a serious challenge to leaders AT&amp;T and Verizon without additional spectrum and capital, said a third person briefed on the company's thinking. In contrast, the German group has argued publicly that a tie-up with Sprint would create a number three player with large spectrum holdings and the critical mass to compete more effectively. Such considerations matter because Deutsche Telekom, which owns 66.7 percent of T-Mobile, would retain a 29 percent stake in T-Mobile if it sells to Iliad, and a holding of about 15 percent in a combined Sprint T-Mobile, sources earlier said. Deutsche Telekom will nevertheless look at both offers, said the two people.  SHAREHOLDERS WELCOME BID Iliad has shaken up the French mobile and broadband market in the past decade with its cheap, pared-down subscriber plans and is now challenging Sprint, owned by Japan's Softbank Corp , for T-Mobile US. Sprint has lined up financing for its bid and reached an agreement in June with Deutsche Telekom over a deal framework and valuation, sources earlier told Reuters. Regulatory challenges remain the biggest hurdle facing the Sprint-T-Mobile deal since both the U.S. Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and Department of Justice (DOJ) have expressed a desire to have at least two more network operators competing against the market leaders AT&amp;T and Verizon. Iliad would not face a long antitrust review since it does not have U.S. holdings and the market would still have four main players, posing less of a risk of price rises. Some Deutsche Telekom shareholders welcomed Iliad's arrival at the drawn-out T-Mobile talks. "It is positive that more interest has emerged and Deutsche Telekom won't have to sell T-Mobile US at any price," said one top 10 shareholder. A top 15 shareholder of Deutsche Telekom said the group should seek the best sale price by talking to both sides. "The $33 offer is very low compared to $40, with the only justification that approval is much more likely," said the shareholder. "DT should talk to let as many potential buyers as possible compete on bidding. "If Sprint wants exclusivity in the negotiations, then let them pay up for it," said the shareholder, adding this could come in the form of a higher break-up fee. The two sides have already agreed that Sprint would pay Deutsche Telekom a break-up fee of $2 billion if regulators block the deal, sources told Reuters in June. Iliad shares closed down 1 percent at 189.60 euros on Monday after a 7 percent slide on Friday. Deutsche Telekom closed down 1.7 percent to 11.88 euros, while T-Mobile US shares were up 0.7 percent to $33.5 at 1847 GMT.  (Additional reporting by Soyoung Kim in New York, Arno Schuetze in Frankfurt, and Leila Abboud in Paris; Writing by Leila Abboud; Editing by David Clarke) FREE AppDownload
ZillowThere's as much variety in housing markets within the 50 states as there is outside of it. A million dollars buys something much different in New York City than it does in rural Vermont or San Francisco. To give you a greater idea of just how much our real estate values vary around the U.S., we teamed up with Point2Homes to look at what $1 million buys in housing markets from coast to coast. FREE AppDownload
Flickr/elisfanclubJefferies CEO Richard Handler sent out a clever email to his employees, giving his bankers 10 Wall Street life lessons he wants them to learn this summer. The lessons are in the form of an imagined summer reading list. The books he lists are made-up, but within each title is a lesson he wants everyone to learn. Here's the email he sent to his employees:  In keeping with our strong desire to maintain maximum focus and momentum in August and into our fourth quarter, we came up with a way to make everyone’s life a little easier. When at the beach or in the mountains on vacation, it is always fun to bring along a few good books to help relax, unwind, and stretch the mind. With the goal of saving everyone some time, we have included our list of books we would like everyone to take with them on vacation. The good news is you need only read the titles and merely imagine the hundreds of pages that could fill each volume: Please stay focused in August on building Jefferies and enjoy any time away you may be taking. FREE AppDownload
Foodies who can afford a $9.99 fee can finally order from chic restaurants that typically don't offer other delivery options. The service is called Caviar, and you can think of it as the GrubHub for rich people. The online ordering startup launched last year in San Francisco and is now active in New York City, Boston, Seattle, Chicago, and Washington, D.C., with plans to expand to other cities soon.  And now, after weeks of speculation, Caviar has confirmed it has been acquired by Square, the mobile payments company run by Jack Dorsey. Though the exact purchase price hasn't been reported, the New York Times previously speculated that the deal could be worth as much as $90 million. "Together we’ll double down our mission of delivering premium food through a premium delivery service with no compromises — giving buyers easy access to the food and restaurants they love so much," Caviar said in a blog post announcing the deal. Caviar's appeal is that it allows customers to order from popular restaurants that don't usually deliver, like Ike's Place in San Francisco and Momofuku in New York. "We look for the best restaurants in the city that have great food," partner John Keh told Business Insider. "Our restaurant partners do not have to be the fanciest in town, but if they make some of the best dishes in their category, we partner with them."  Once Caviar partners with a restaurant, it send a professional photographer to capture mouthwatering images for the online menu. "A picture of the food lets you quickly determine if the dish is appealing to you," Keh said. "As the saying goes, we eat with our eyes." Prices on Caviar, which are set by restaurants, can be slightly higher than prices in the restaurant, as noted by Eater. Users also pay a 18% gratuity charge and the $9.99 delivery fee. Keh learned about logistics and operations firsthand while serving as a geospatial analyst for the U.S. Air Force. "That directly tied into my work now at Caviar, of looking at maps and routes, trying to make everything as efficient as possible," he said. Caviar gave Business Insider an exclusive list of the ten most popular New York restaurants on its site, along with the most popular dish from each.  10. L'Apicio: Pork ChopCourtesy of Caviar L'Apicio is a trendy East Village Italian restaurant that's been popular with critics since it opened in 2012. Although known for its polenta and award-winning meatballs, L'Apicio also makes a popular $30 pork chop, served with apples and roasted turnips, which Caviar users love. 9. DBGB Kitchen and Bar: The Frenchie BurgerCourtesy of CaviarThis gastropub by famed French chef Daniel Boulud offers diners a wide selection of house-made sausages and burgers, among other bistro fare. The $17 Frenchie — a burger topped with confit pork belly, arugula, tomato-onion compote, morbier cheese, peppered brioche bun, cornichon, and mustard — is a favorite with Caviar users.  8. Taim: Green Falafel SandwichCourtesy of CaviarTaim, which has locations in the West Village and Nolita, serves some of the best falafel in the city. Taim's most popular item on Caviar is the green falafel sandwich, a cheap option at just $6. It's served with pita on the side.  7. Motorino: Cherry Stone Clam PizzeCourtesy of CaviarIn 2010, New York Times restaurant critic Sam Sifton declared Motorino the best pizza in New York City. Caviar users love Motorino, too, especially the $17 cherry stone clam pizza.  6. Blue Ribbon Sushi: Omakase SushiCourtesy of CaviarBlue Ribbon's sushi outpost is a favorite on Caviar, as is its omakase sushi. The fish selection depends on the daily catch, and at $85, it's a pretty steep choice for lunch.  5. Katz's Deli: Katz's PastramiCourtesy of CaviarKatz's Deli has been a Lower East Side classic for decades, and Caviar users can't get enough of its famous pastrami. You can order the sandwich for $18.45 with Caviar.  4. Momofuku Má Pêche: Pork BunsCourtesy of Caviar Má Pêche, part of the Momofuku dining empire, is a trendy, upscale restaurant with a dim sum-style menu. Its most popular item is the $10 pork buns, served with pork belly, hoisin, cucumber, and scallions. You can also order from Momofuku Milk Bar, which has five locations serving delicious desserts across NYC.  3. Otto's Tacos: Carnitas TacoCourtesy of CaviarThis new East Village spot serves tiny tacos with a choice of five different fillings. The most popular taco on Caviar is the carnitas option, with slow-cooked pork served on a fresh corn tortilla. Each mini taco costs $3.  2. Mission Cantina: Lamb BurritoCourtesy of CaviarMission Cantina is a new Mexican venture from Danny Bowien, the chef behind the critically-acclaimed Mission Chinese. Lines to get in can be long, and it's a hit on Caviar as well. The most popular item is the lamb burrito, served with beans, avocado, crema, queso blanco, salsa fresca, chips, and two types of salsa. 1. Han Dynasty: Dan Dan Noodles Courtesy of Caviar.Han Dynasty is a new Sichuan restaurant in the East Village that regularly has 45 minute waits for a table. It's no surprise delivery service is so popular. The most-ordered dish is an $8.70 Dan Dan Noodles, Sichuan noodles in a spicy sauce containing preserved vegetables, chili oil, Sichuan pepper, minced pork, and scallions. FREE AppDownload
Paul Morigi / Stringer / Getty ImagesWarren Buffett notoriously waits for the "fat pitch" — and now, all this waiting has led to a huge amount of cash. According to Bloomberg News, Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway Inc. "rose past $50 billion at the end of June," which is the first time "it finished a quarter above that level since he became chairman and chief executive officer more than four decades ago." The amount of $50 billion is more than twice that which Buffett likes to "keep on hand should his insurance businesses have to pay unusually large claims." But "the guy's just not going to spend the cash to spend it," according to David Rolfe, Wedgewood Partners' chief investment officer who was quoted in the Bloomberg article. Berkshire Hathaway's Q2 profits soared 41% to $6.4 billion ($3,889 per Class A share) — a record. Additionally, Berkshire Hathaway also operates businesses like Geico, which add even more to earnings. Typically, Warren Buffett's investment strategy is to wait for the fat pitch. For those unfamiliar with the term, a "fat pitch" is the "opportunity to buy a company at a price promising favorable returns." However, Berkshire Hathaway is now so large that few companies are "big enough to merit Buffett's attention." According to the article, some of that $50 billion is going to Berkshire's capital-intensive units, including electric utilities, natural-gas pipelines, and the railroad.  But that's not going to use up all of the cash — so it will be interesting to see what Buffett does with the rest. In recent years, Buffett has gotten involved with major companies. In 2013, Buffett and 3G Capital bought H.J. Heinz Co. and took it private. And in 2011 he invested in IBM — despite the fact that he generally prefers to stay out of tech companies. Source: Bloomberg News FREE AppDownload
We recently published our list of the World's Best Business Schools.  For our fifth annual survey of the World's Best Business Schools, we asked thousands of professionals from around the world who have experience hiring MBAs to determine the best business school. They came back with a clear favorite: Harvard University. Survey participants rated the reputation of the graduates from top business schools around the world on a scale of poor to excellent (1 to 5), with excellent ratings used as a tiebreaker. We included responses only from professionals who said they had experience hiring MBAs, as well as other filters to improve optimize our survey pool. We thought it would be interesting to create an infographic that breaks down the top 25 schools by geographical region: Skye Gould/Business Insider
Wikimedia CommonsShares of for-profit education company ITT Educational are crashing after the company disclosed that a real estate sale agreement fell through. In afternoon trade on Monday, shares of ITT were down more than 30%. On Friday evening, ITT said in a filing with the SEC that its agreement with College Portfolio Buyer to sell 24 parcels of real estate for $119.1 million fell apart. The deal, first announced in May, gave CPB the unconditional right to terminate the agreement at any point. In the filing, ITT said CPB offered to extend the period under which it could have conducted due diligence on the properties, but ITT said this extension would have prevented it from entering other financing agreements on those properties in the interim. According to FinViz, nearly 50% of the outstanding shares of ITT are currently being held short, or bet against by investors that the price of the stock will fall.  The for-profit education sector has long been one of the most skeptically viewed areas of the market, with a variety of investors and regulatory agencies criticizing these colleges' cost and the quality of the education they offer.  Last year, New York Comptroller Thomas DiNapoli released a report that was critical of industry oversight, saying it leaves "too many young adults vulnerable to false promises." And earlier this year, noted investor Mark Cuban said he thought the student-loan bubble would collapse like the housing bubble, causing colleges to go out of business.  Including Monday's meltdown, shares of ITT were down more than 70% year-to-date, and over the past five years, the company's stock price has fallen 90%.  Along with ITT's tumble, shares of for-profit education peers including Education Management and American Public Education are down more than 2%. FREE AppDownload
Since Argentina's default, the country's Economy Minister, Axel Kicillof, has only gained more power in President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner's administration, according to reports from Argentine newspaper, La Nacion. It was he, reports say, who persuaded the president not to listen to a group of private bankers trying to strike a deal with the hedge fund creditors whose lawsuit brought Argentina to its knees. "Today Kicillof is the head of government. Cristina is the head of state," a source told La Nacion. That leaves men like Cabinet Chief Jorge Capitanich and Central Bank Chair Juan Carlos Faberge — two men who were in favor of striking a deal — out in the cold. And it leaves Kicillof — a Marxist economics professor who was instrumental in The Republic's controversial takeover of the Argentine subsidiary of Spanish energy company YPF — with more influence over the President. The Twitterverse is even exploding with rumors of a presidential bid once Kirchner's term is over near the end of 2015. This does not bode well for the continued Court-ordered negotiations between The Republic and the hedge fund creditors whose U.S. lawsuit set Argentina on the path to its second default in just over a decade. The creditors, known collectively as NML Capital, won a lawsuit ordering Argentina to pay them 100 cents on the dollar for sovereign bonds purchased after the country's previous default. Argentina had been refusing to pay NML because its creditors would not take a 70 cent haircut on these bonds, as more than 90% of investors did. NML sued Argentina for its money and won. That should have been the end. But when a payment that should have included NML's money was not made on Wednesday, Argentina went into default. There is still time to set things right, but it's running out. Last week, Kicillof reportedly asked Fernandez to reject the deal between NML and private bankers — who may have purchased NML's bonds — calling it "a scam with depositors' 'savings.'" New York Judge Thomas Griesa is insisting that negotiations continue, though. But the longer these negotiations (or lack thereof) take, the more precarious the situation on the ground in Argentina will become. "If Argentina does not settle this event of default within 60 days, it will trigger a 'cross default clause' embedded in the bond agreements and, assuming bondholders can gather a group representing 25% of each issue, will require the acceleration of payments to the 93% of bondholders that took part in the 2005 and 2010 exchanges," wrote Graham Fisher analyst and debt expert Joshua Rosner in a report last week. "If this occurs, Argentina will almost immediately go from solvent to insolvent, as the $29 billion dollars needed to meet these demands would wipe out its foreign reserves. While it is uncertain if this will happen, it does appear that exchange bondholders are already preparing to make these demands." The country is already in a weak position. In January it devalued its currency's official rate by 19%, and since then the peso has fallen an additional 2.7%, according to Bloomberg. Meanwhile, its inflation rate continues to be the highest in Latin America after Venezuela's.GrahamFisher Rosner fears that if negotiations remain at a stalemate, low levels of infrastructural investment and "aggressive import export tax regimes" that have contributed to the Argentine economy's malaise will truly begin to cause pain. "If Argentina continues on her current path," Rosner wrote, "it is likely that her next economic crisis will look frighteningly similar to the domestic debt crisis of 1989-1991. While few outside of Argentina remember that period and the broad suffering that it caused in the population, most Argentines remember the pain that resulted from July 1989’s 54% currency devaluation, a 200% increase in public service rates, and the countless wage controls and price guidelines." In the past few days, the Fernandez regime has voiced many concerns — that the NML will try to force The Republic to sign a bad deal, that The Court's mediator is friendly with NML's lawyers, that Argentina is being singled out for bullying in the international community. One Argentine judge even discounted the U.S. Court's ruling entirely, saying that Griesa was a lower-level municipal judge (never mind that the Supreme Court upheld his order). He suggested that The Republic start a new lawsuit accusing NML of extortion and bribing the Court. In other words, the regime does not sound concerned about an impending economic collapse. Lets hope one doesn't catch it by surprise. FREE AppDownload
Petar Kujundzic/ReutersMcDonald's said sales in markets including China and Japan are experiencing a "significant negative impact" since a food safety scandal in China last month ago forced it to halt the sale of items such as Big Macs and Spicy McWings. The affected markets account for about 10 percent of its total revenue, the world's largest burger chain said in a regulatory filing on Monday. McDonald's said that while the scandal would hurt results in the near term, it could not currently estimate the impact on earnings for the full year, saying only that the company's global comparable sales forecast for 2014 is now "at risk." This announcement from McDonald's follows a similar announcement from Yum! Brands on July 30. In that announcement, Yum! said it was unclear what the impact to its sales in China would be as a result of the supplier scandal, which broke out following a report on Chinese television. Yum! also said the Shanghai FDA has launched an investigation into the company's relationship with supplier Shanghai Husi as a result.  This latest announcement also follows what was a disappointing second quarter for McDonald's, which on July 22 reported earnings per share that missed expectations on global comparable store sales that were flat year over year.  Near noon on Monday, shares of McDonald's were down 0.6%, while Yum! Brands was up 0.4%. FREE AppDownload
Roll out the red carpet and cue the violinist, it's time for the annual SA 100.In October, we will publish our annual New York: Silicon Alley 100 feature. The Silicon Alley 100 ranks the 100 people who have done the coolest stuff in the New York tech this year. We’ll be celebrating the list with the winners and other NYC digital luminaries at a huge bash held at a secret, swanky venue. (Seriously. It’s going to be awesome.) So put your nominating hats on! In this form, please post the names of people you think have done the coolest stuff in and for the NYC digital community this year. Then, for each person you nominate, please explain what they have done that you think is so cool.  What does “done something cool” mean? You have a few weeks to get your nominations in (we’ll stop taking them mid-September). Meanwhile, we’ll start working on our own nominations to separate awe-inspiring people from hype. Then we’ll spend a couple of weeks narrowing down the list before we unveil the 2014 rankings, have our huge bash, and post pictures for everyone to see. So get cracking! Post your nominations here! For any SA 100 questions, please reach out ot Maya Koskoff or Rebecca Borison. You can also check out our 2013 Silicon Alley 100 list here &gt;&gt; FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Steve MarcusNotoriously bullish Wharton professor Jeremy Siegel told CNBC Monday morning stocks remain firmly in bull territory. His comment comes in context of last week's sell-off and fears over market direction. Siegel stated that "perhaps" we are in the beginning of a correction, but ultimately he believes that "the bull market is not over". He added that if this is indeed a correction, then it will be a "great buying opportunity for investors". He stated during the interview: "I still think the big bull is taking control of this market; I don't think it's going to give up. Surely there might be a correction — we always have corrections in a bull market. I actually don't think this is going to be one of them, but if it does happen, I think it's going to be a great buying opportunity for investors." Additionally, he said: "Remember when I was on of May 2013 just after the panic when Bernanke mentioned maybe we're going to start the tapering, and I said, "If you look at history, the bull markets do not end when the Fed starts raising interest rates. Bull markets could go on for another 9 months to 2 years."" Last month, Siegel expressed another bullish sentiment: that the Dow is "going to get to 18 [thousand] and above", even suggesting that it might hit 19,000, or even 20,000. Here's the entire interview from CNBC:    FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jim Young Bill GrossPIMCO's Total Return Fund, the bond fund spearheaded by  CIO Bill Gross, just saw its 15th-straight month of outflows, according to new Morningstar data. The fund's losses totaled $830 million, or 0.4% of June-ending assets of $225 billion, Morningstar said. Total assets in the fund at the end of July are now down to $223 billion. Marketwatch reports the fund returned negative 0.5%, underperforming the benchmark Barclays Aggregate bond fund, which returned negative 0.3%. The fund has underperformed 72% of its peers through July. However, it's topped 87% of its peers in the past three months. And as Bloomberg recently reported, nine of PIMCO's 15 largest mutual funds are beating at least 75% of peers YTD. "Gross has been undermined this year by bets on shorter-term debt, trailing 89% of his peers in July," Bloomberg's Mary Childs and Charles Stein wrote.  FREE AppDownload
Justin Sullivan/Getty Images Business Insider is looking for a paid intern to join our SF editorial team this fall! As an intern at Business Insider, there's no getting coffee, filing, or making copies. Our interns are an integral part of our team. Many of our current writers and editors started as interns. BI Interns spend their time doing meaningful work: researching, writing, pitching, and producing features — even breaking news if the timing's right. If selected for this internship, you would be doing (or learning how to): Interns are encouraged to work full-time (40 hours a week) if their schedule allows. Other perks? Our awesome office is located in the heart of downtown San Francisco — complete with a ping-pong and foosball tables (bring your A-game). When it comes to qualifications, a journalism background and experience writing for a news site always helps, as do copy-editing skills and light HTML and Photoshop experience. Knowledge of social media and previous writing experience are both useful, too. In short, the best applicants are motivated self-starters, people who absolutely love the news, and are crazy about Twitter. Please submit your resume, cover letter and three writing clips HERE. Please briefly describe which BI section(s) interest you most and why. (Don't know what our sections are? Check out the nav bar on the home page and our masthead.) And, please note: this internship requires that you work in our San Francisco office. This internship starts as soon as possible and can last up to 6 months, with some flexibility on start and end dates. FREE AppDownload
APHarvard's reputation as one of the best universities in the world comes in part from the many famous and successful people who have attended from the Cambridge, Massachusetts school since it was founded in 1636. We've compiled a list of the undergraduate and graduate students who are most famous right now, including historical greats like Ralph Waldo Emerson and recent phenomenons like Jeremy Lin. FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Ingrid BarrentineAmerica is experiencing a shortage of truck drivers.  The American Trucking Associations (ATA) estimates that the U.S. is short 30,000 truck drivers. Factors driving the shortfall include regulations, relatively low pay, and the fact that fewer young people are interested in getting into the profession. Ninety percent of carriers said they couldn't find enough drivers who met department of transportation (DOT) criteria, according to a study cited by the ATA.  The turnover rate at large truckload carriers was 92% annualized in Q1, putting it above 90% for the ninth straight quarter, according to the ATA. This compares with a low of 39% seen four years ago but is lower than a 130% average in 2005.  Turnover refers to the rate at which drivers leave the industry and are replaced. The ATA reports this quarterly and annualizes the rate. "One-hundred percent turnover doesn’t mean that every driver left," ATA chief economist Bob Costello says.  "If you keep a driver for 90 days, the rate generally drops in half. However, there are a group of drivers that churn, and they generally stay at a carrier for a short length of time (just weeks or a couple of months). Many drivers stay with a carrier for years." "Industry carriers are rotating through the same drivers — meaning drivers jump from carrier to carrier with no great influx of new candidates into the driver pool," Gretchen Jackson, manager of recruitment at Con-way Truckload, told Business Insider in an email.  Costello says the cold weather could have limited turnover, which could rise as the economy improves and higher freight volumes put more pressure on the market. What's causing the shortage? Many large and small carriers didn't survive the financial crisis and  independent cntractors lost their equipment, and it became harder for these businesses to obtain the credit they needed to invest in capital.  "This situation forced drivers to look for other work where they were able to be home more with their loved ones and be a part of the day-to-day life of a family," Jackson said. "Drivers saw what they missing being out on the road for 2-3 weeks and many made the decision not to give that up." Drivers are now leaving because of industry growth, retirements, and the switch to other industries. "We see our over-the-road (OTR) drivers leave to join other industries, particularly construction or less-than-truckload (LTL) truck driving, which provides a different type of schedule and work style than OTR driving," Jackson said. "Drivers want to make more money, and they want more home time, so they leave OTR truck driving for careers that can give them that." Changes to the hours-of-service (HOS) regulations in 2013 are also reducing driver productivity, Costello said. "As a result, carriers have to add more trucks and drivers to haul the same amount of freight, thus exacerbating the shortage." And then there are the barriers to entry. Seven percent of drivers cause Compliance Safety Accountability (CSA) problems for trucking companies. "While not all 7% will be pushed out of the industry overnight, over time, CSA and the related pre-employment driver screening program facilitated by the government will exacerbate the driver shortage," Costello writes.  Something's got to give At the end of July, Swift Transportation, the largest truckload carrier in North America, complained of a truck driver shortage in its Q2 earnings release. "We were constrained in the truckload and (central refrigerated systems) segments by the challenging driver market. Our driver turnover and unseated truck count were higher than anticipated," according to the press release. The company says it will now invest in drivers and that it will spend more on wages. Salaries, wages, and benefits rose $14.2 million to $238.1 million in Q2, compared with $223.9 million a year ago. This was "due primarily to increases in workers compensation expense, the number of non-driving employees, and an increase in driver wages per mile due primarily to a change in driver mix across our various segments."  Swift says it will pay higher wages and better training to attract more truck drivers. Con-way's Jackson shared similar sentiments, saying driver retention would now be key. "Overall, the industry needs to adjust compensation levels to match the jobs at hand." She also thinks trucking companies need to reach out to younger generations and show them that driving a truck is "a legitimate career option." The truck driver shortage is expected to surge to 239,000 by 2022. And the ATA estimates that the industry needs on average 100,000 new drivers each year over the next decade. "It’s a buyers’ market, you might say, for drivers, and they know that any other carrier is waiting to scoop them up for the right price," Jackson said. This chart from the ATA shows the projected shortfall: ATA Update: The piece was updated to include Jackson's comments on the impact of the financial crisis on trucking companies. FREE AppDownload
Courtesy of Sam BompasBritish designer duo Bompas &amp; Parr, who designed the world’s first edible fireworks and are best known for their ambitious and sometimes monumental jelly-based sculptures, traveled to Syracuse, New York, this summer to try out their idea for the world’s most extreme barbecue session—grilling meat over 2,100 degrees Fahrenheit lava. Sam Bompas said he first experienced cooking with lava on a visit to Sakurajima, an active composite volcano (stratovolcano) in Japan. “After climbing across the safety barriers, I was able to use lava to cook lunch,” he said. “This gave me goosebumps. The intensity of the experience meant that on returning to the U.K., I immediately sat down with Harry Parr to plot. We wanted to see if there was a way to create synthetic lava so a wider audience could experience the wonders of food cooked this way.” Courtesy of Sam Bompas The key to making that wish come true was Professor Robert Wysocki of Syracuse University’s Lava Project. Wysocki creates artificial volcanoes and bubbling streams of man-made lava by melting 1.1-billion-year-old basaltic rock in a rigged industrial bronze furnace. Wysocki and his team have conducted some 100 lava pours so far for the sake of science or art, but never in the pursuit of grilling a 10-ounce rib-eye steak. So how did it taste? Bompas told me in an email that it was “the best I've ever had. It might be [something] to do with the theatre of molten rock harnessed for cookery!” He added: “The intense heat meant that the exterior was sealed in seconds. There was an excellent char, but the inside was done medium-rare in about a minute alone. We feasted like ogres! Courtesy of Sam BompaLava oozing into a bed of dry ice.  “We've found ourselves in every conceivable gustatory situation, cooking with lightning, building gin and tonic clouds you could step inside, and even flooding the roof of Selfridges to make a boating lake with float-up bar. This was by far the greatest culinary adventure so far!” Bompas said. Cooking with lava is not for amateurs, obviously, and requires custom-made protective clothing that includes leather gauntlets, jerkins, and aprons. “The smell of burning leather provides an unparalleled early warning system,” Bompas explained. “When the leather starts to smell like burnt pork, it’s time to step away from the grill.” Courtesy of Sam BompasLava-charred rib-eye steak. Excited by the lava barbecue's success, Bompas &amp; Parr are teaming up with Wysocki to offer bespoke lava banquets for ambitious party hosts in which they will ship a giant furnace to the site of the party so the rock can heat up for 70 hours and create a multisensory, lava-themed extravaganza that they say will be a “cross between a BBQ, art installation, concert, interactive theatre and the best party of your life.”   Courtesy of Sam BompasMan-made lava. Check out this video to see the extreme grilling session in action:  FREE AppDownload
The stock market's "Wolf" moment might finally be here.  In his latest technical strategy note, Jonathan Krinsky, chief market technician at MKM Partners, uses the parable of the boy who cried wolf to describe the past year and a half of action in the stock market.  His takeaway? The wolf might finally be here.  Krinsky writes: In the 2013 playbook, which saw every minor dip provide a springboard for new highs, such oversold scenarios created excellent buying opportunities. While we think a short-term bounce should materialize soon, there has also been enough of a change in character over the last few weeks that a bounce in the SPX might, for the first time in a long time, fail to make a new high. Should that occur, we would most certainly be seeing a major change in character; i.e., the Wolf may finally be coming. Krinsky breaks down a number of technical indicators in his note (he is, after all, a technical analyst), but the main takeaway is that when the S&amp;P 500 hits 1900, we'll really know what kind of market we're looking at. Does the market break down further, or is it just another bounce on the way to S&amp;P 2000? Here's Krinsky's chart that shows the S&amp;P 500's impending showdown with a number of technical indicators.  MKM Partners FREE AppDownload
Getty Images/Justin SullivanThe Justice Department has subpoenaed GM Financial, General Motors' lending unit, over subprime loan originations.  According to a regulatory filing posted online Monday, prosecutors are looking for loan documents stretching back to 2007. In particular, they're looking for info about the underwriting standards used to originate loans, and the corresponding "warrants and representation" that get sent along with the loans as they're packaged into securities.   We've been reading a lot lately about a subprime auto loan bubble — the New York Times says they've climbed 130% in the past five years. And Morgan Stanley's Adam Jonas has argued recent outperformance in auto sales has been driven by overly generous leasing terms. It's not immediately clear whether prosecutors are looking into this, given that they're looking for info that predates the crisis, but we have no doubt they're aware of the current environment.     King &amp; Spalding, an Atlanta-based firm, recently explained the statute under which the feds are questioning GM. "Taking advantage of FIRREA’s lengthy statute of limitations, arguably low burden of proof , and the ability to issue administrative subpoenas to conduct a civil investigation in advance of filing a civil complaint, the government’s actions appear to promise a host of suits targeting many financial institutions."  Here's the full text of the filing: On July 28, 2014, General Motors Financial Company, Inc. (the “Company”) was served with a subpoena by the U.S. Department of Justice directing it to produce certain documents relating to its and its subsidiaries’ and affiliates’ origination and securitization of subprime automobile loan contracts since 2007 in connection with an investigation by the U.S. Department of Justice in contemplation of a civil proceeding for potential violations of Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989. Among other matters, the subpoena requests information relating to the underwriting criteria used to originate these automobile loan contracts and the representations and warranties relating to those underwriting criteria that were made in connection with the securitization of the automobile loan contracts. FREE AppDownload
HP this morning filed a legal response to former Autonomy CFO Sushovan Hussain, filled with accusations about his alleged part in what HP describes as "the massive fraud on HP." The dispute stems from HP's purchase of British software company Autonomy for $11 billion in 2011. Less than a year later, HP wrote off $8.8 billion and alleged Autonomy had improperly inflated its revenues and margins, to the tune of $5 billion. HP called it fraud. Autonomy execs have vehemently denied HP's accusations, saying HP's own mismanagement caused the problems and the write-down after it bought Autonomy. HP CEO Meg Whitman was a freshman on HP's board when the acquisition took place. The write-down occurred after she took over as CEO. At one point, Whitman publicly admitted that HP "paid too much" for Autonomy. Multiple shareholder lawsuits against HP ensued. In June, HP announced it was settling three shareholders' lawsuits and that it agreed to hire the shareholders' lawyers, paying them at least $18 million and as much as $48 million to help HP sue Autonomy. Last month, former Autonomy CFO Hussain filed a motion challenging the terms of this settlement, calling it "collusive." And the two parties continue to argue, using language that seems more appropriate for a bad "made for TV movie" than for the corporate world. HP's legal response filed today is no different. We've embedded it below so you can read it for yourself and here's a link to Hussain's motion. We can summarize what both sides have been saying about each other taken from years of statements given to Business Insider: Autonomy's former executives blame HP's executives for problems after the acquisition and say that HP has yet to share evidence about the alleged fraud. HP says (as it does below) that it plans to take legal action against Autonomy executives and is still in the process of gathering evidence. Specifically, Hussain's lawyer John Keker sent us this in response: My comments will appear in our opposition, due next Monday. Ask yourself why they waited a year after a merger which was vetted by hundreds of HP employees and agents, before and after, before claiming fraud (to support an almost $9 billion writedown) and then ask yourself why, if they are so concerned about fraud, HP has been scared to sue anywhere for three years. And then ask yourself why they say they intend to sue in England—could it be, as they admit, because there is less discovery? And a spokesperson for former Autonomy CEO Mike Lynch sent us this one: This breathless ranting from HP is the sort of personal smear we’ve come to expect. As the emotional outbursts go up, the access to facts seems to go down. HP has struck a corrupt and collusive settlement to try to bury the truth rather than face a court. Meg Whitman is buying off a bunch of lawyers so she doesn’t have to answer charges of incompetence and misdirection in front of a judge and jury. Quite simply we are asking for discovery and facts, they are trying to hide them – that’s what separates us and her. HP court motion against Sushovan Hussain  FREE AppDownload
The old paper-based tools for making and accepting payments are being swept away by the rise of e-commerce, mobile commerce, smartphone apps, and mobile payment registers.  Recently, BI Intelligence published an 80-slide, 45-chart deck detailing how a wave of innovation is changing the way we pay. These are the five key points from that presentation, which explain the shift away from old payments technology (i.e., cash, checks, and physical card swipes).  Click here to sign up for BI Intelligence trial membership, and download the whole presentation and charts in PowerPoint, Excel, or PDF &gt; &gt;  1. The use of cash and checks is in decline. BII BII 2. In fact, for the first time, Americans are using their credit and debit cards more frequently than cash. Credit and debit account for 42% of transactions and cash, 40%.     3. Why is everything shifting away from cash and checks? E-commerce is on the rise, as well as online bill pay. On the whole, transactions in which the credit card is not physically present — i.e., e-commerce — are a growing share of all payments.  BII 4. Also, people are beginning to make payments with their phones in stores. Those payments are ultimately powered by credit cards on file with their mobile payment apps, like Google Wallet. BII 5. Finally, small merchants are adopting tools, like Square and PayPal's attachable credit card readers. These turn their phones and tablets into payment terminals. In the past, those business may have only accepted cash.  BI Intelligence is a research and analysis service focused on mobile computing, digital media, payments, and e-commerce. Only subscribers can download the individual charts and data sets in Excel, along with the PowerPoint and PDF versions of our presentation, The Future Of Payments.  Please sign up for a free trial here. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Fred Prouser Is the much anticipated correction upon us? I honestly have no idea, but I suspect that the weakening breadth, European equity under-performance and inability for rates to rise as the Fed ends QE in the coming months is likely to create market conditions that are just a tad more volatile than what we have become accustomed to over the last two years.   Trying to pick a top in a raging bull market is a bit of a fool’s errand.  Trust me, I know, I have lost plenty of money throughout my career trying to do so, but trying to find trade-able inflection points based on divergences and sentiment is what most traders make their careers on. On more than one occasion of late, we have noted what appeared to be a dramatically narrowing rally in technology stocks, where the 5 largest components (AAPL, MSFT, GOOG/L, INTC &amp; FB) make up about 35% of the weight of the Nasdaq 100 (QQQ).  Last Friday Enis highlighted  the heavy-lifting of a few mega-caps  As of July 18th, the Nasdaq 100 had the fewest % of components making new highs with the index at all time highs  (from Dana Lyons):  Risk Reversal With Q2 results of most mega-cap tech stocks out of the way, I would suggest that the Nasdaq 100 could be one of the most crowded trades that exists in U.S. equities as its fate lies with the success of Apple’s iPhone 6 launch in Sept or Oct (13.5% of the index).  We are short Nasdaq via QQQ puts (read here and here). It’s also important to note that, despite fairly solid results among many large cap tech companies, it appears that sentiment towards the space is getting a bit defensive as investors look for the more cheaply valued, cash-rich companies like AAPL, INTC, GOOG/L and MSFT. That being said, the amount of hero worship of Silicon Valley gods and self-gratulation by same, feels to be hitting a fever pitch. For instance, New York Magazine’s recent piece on Re/Code’s Kara Swisher:  Risk Reversal Or famed venture capitalist Marc Andreessen’s recent epic rant calling out almost everyone who ever talked smack about Facebook after the company reported better than expected Q2 results and the stock made a fresh all time high last week, per Business Insider (read here), but here are the first two tweets of many: Risk Reversal Then, on a week that saw Zillow use its ridiculously valued stock to make a $3.5 billion bid for competitor Trulia, Zillow CEO found the time to take a victory lap (after TWTR’s stock rallied 20% on better than expected Q2 results), of his sage advice to Twitter employees not to sell their stock in a Tweet back in May:   Risk Reversal Risk Reversal And then again Andreessen tweeting last night about LNKD’s Q2 results and post market gains, but more importantly poking fun at Fed Chair Yellen’s recent commentary: Risk Reversal The last tweet is the one that I find comical.  If this sort of hubris does not smack of an inflection point for public and private tech valuations I DON’T KNOW WHAT WILL.  I am not calling a top, merely identifying a potential inflection point at a time where breadth for broader tech stock participation is clearly waning. Much like the situation back in late 1999 into Q1 2000. I would just make one more point.  These tech titans, commanding so much attention, fiercely attacking the naysayers and taking so much credit for this new found tech utopia that we little people have all been graced with, smacks very much of our former Financier overlords in the pre-financial crisis.  That didn’t end well, and I suspect just as Andreessen and Co think it is different this time, we know that it’s not. While his famous Twitter rants may continue to be right, and his arguments about valuation will hold firm for a bit, the real question is whether they last the test of time.  Just as he has been very right over the last 5 to 10 years, he is likely to be most wrong at the very top, and will need to take on a bit more of a defensive tone in the future, and unfortunately be very wrong. Put in plain English, guys like Dick Fuld, Chuck Prince, Stan O’neal and John Thain were the darlings of the pre-crisis economy, where bank market capitalizations reached levels never seen before while making millionaires out of thousands of their employees, and investors.  No one thought it would or could end.  Well you know how it did – it almost took down our economic system as we know it. Is the situation in Tech valuations and sentiment as extreme? By no means, but the attitude among the executives, VC investors, mom and pop investors and the media reminds me of times past, and I think it is important to note that it is NEVER different this time and maybe just maybe we are at an inflection point. Disclosure: Marc Andreessen is an investor in Business Insider. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsNow that the recovery appears to finally be taking hold, Business Insider decided to see how that recovery was being felt across the country. We ranked each state on how eight economic measures have grown or shrunk in recent years: the unemployment rate, the number of non-farm payroll jobs, gross domestic product, average wages, the working age (18-64) population, value of international exports, house prices, and auto sales. Check out how we made the ranking here. FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Florian PilzIs an MBA that costs two years of your life and $150,000 really worth it? With increasing global competition and a tough job market, business school may hold the key to getting ahead — if you go to the right one. For our fifth annual survey of the World's Best Business Schools, we asked thousands of professionals from around the world who have experience hiring MBAs to determine the best business school. They came back with a clear favorite: Harvard University. Survey participants rated the reputation of the graduates from top business schools around the world on a scale of poor to excellent (1 to 5), with excellent ratings used as a tiebreaker. We included responses only from professionals who said they had experience hiring MBAs at least half the time, as well as other filters to optimize our survey pool. Click here to see a full analysis of the survey results &gt; Click here to see a map showing the top 25 schools &gt; In addition to the usual top American schools, international institutions like the London School of Economics (#8), London Business School (#9), Oxford (#13), and INSEAD (#15) placed in the top 15. FREE AppDownload
Megan Willett/Business InsiderThe July ISM New York report on business came in at a 68.1, better than last month's 60.5. This is the highest reading since November 2013. The report's prices paid sub-index increased at its fastest pace in fourth month in July, coming in at 64.3. Job growth also accelerated to 59.5 in July, the best reading in five months.  Future optimism, or a view of expected business conditions over the next six months, also rose to 70.7 in July, the highest reading in five months. FREE AppDownload
People won't stop talking about high-yield bonds, and this chart from Alain Bokobza and his team at Societe Generale shows exactly why: high-yield investors are now running for the exits. Societe Generale In The Wall Street Journal this weekend, Katy Burne noted that high-yield investors are growing increasingly anxious about exiting their positions if the market continues to turn against them and investors continue to pull money from high-yield bond funds. Citing data from Lipper, Burne said more than $5 billion was pulled from junk-bond mutual funds in July. Last week we highlighted this chart from Dave Lutz at JonesTrading, which shows the recent divergence between the S&amp;P 500 and high-yield, or "junk" bonds. Business Insider High-yield, or "junk" bonds, are bonds that receive a 'BB' or lower rating from S&amp;P or a 'Ba' or lower rating from Moody's, are bonds issued by companies, municipalities, or governments that are deemed to contain substantial risk of default. This chart from the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis shows how strong high-yield bonds have performed over the last few years. Keep in mind that the lower a bond's yield, the "stronger" it is said to be performing. FRED But the recent spike in junk bond yields has investors second-guessing their exposure to this asset class. "Everyone is hoping to be first through the exit," Matt King, global head of credit strategy at Citigroup told Burne. "By definition, that's not possible." It might be a quiet week for economic data, but for markets growing increasingly anxious this week is unlikely to be a snoozer. FREE AppDownload
Misha Hussain/ReutersA scientist separates blood cells from plasma cells to isolate any Ebola RNA to test for the virus at the European Mobile Laboratory in Gueckedou.Tekmira Pharmaceuticals shares have turned negative after earlier surging after the recent outbreak of Ebola renewed hope that a trial of the company's Ebola treatment would be renewed. Shortly after the market open, Tekmira shares were up more than 12%, a move that follows a more than 11% advance on Friday. But at around 10:45 am ET, Tekmira shares had reversed and were down 2%. In July, the FDA placed a clinical hold on the company's TKM-Ebola Phase 1 healthy volunteer study. Over the weekend, a report from Reuters said that the FDA "stands ready" to work with companies developing Ebola treatments. In its report, Reuters notes that the FDA's hold means Tekmira can't proceed with the trial placed on hold but doesn't prevent the company from initiating a new study proposal. And were the company to initiate a new trial in people already infected with Ebola, "the benefit-risk ratio changes completely," an FDA source told Reuters. "Anything that would shift the risk-benefit to a more favorable outcome could potentially allow the authorization of that study," the source told Reuters. Tekmira's treatment, TKM-Ebola, is currently being developed under a $140 million contract with the Department of Defense's Medical Countermeasure Systems BioDefense Therapeutics Joint Product Management Office. Over the weekend, the first of two U.S. healthcare workers who contracted Ebola in Africa arrived in the U.S. The other is expected to arrive later this week.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/David McNewLast week we learned U.S. consumer confidence hit a seven-year high in July. But motor vehicle sales, one of the best measures of U.S. consumer health, according to Emanuella Enenajor and Lisa Berlin at Bank of America, suggests the American consumer is still on the mend. “Higher spending on big-ticket vehicles can be a signal of rising consumer confidence and expanding credit— all important elements in a healthy economic expansion,” they write.  “And although household spending on vehicles has only directly added a few tenths of a percent to GDP in recent years, the associated impact on vehicle production, investment and incomes is much greater. So where do we stand now? Real spending on vehicles is still 4% below its peak, which shows "a consumer that hasn’t fully healed from the crisis." 19 million sales by 2017 For one, consumers are holding on to their cars for longer. They are also spending more leasing vehicles, because it’s cheaper than owning and because leasing doesn’t require a downpayment.  Both of these suggest that pent-up demand could act as a tailwind for motor vehicle sales.  Moreover, if scrappage rates begin to rise auto sales could pick up. While improving quality of motor vehicles could weigh on sales, Enenajor and Berlin write that improving economic conditions mean consumers are more likely to scrap older cars for new ones.  A change in demographics, namely a rise in household formation, that should follow better employment conditions, could increase the stock of cars in operation.  “An annual increase in the stock of vehicles of 2.5%, slightly above the previous expansion average of 2.3%, would push vehicle sales to 19.1 million in 2017, even with a rock bottom scrappage rate of 4.5%.” BAML Credit conditions “Newly originated installment vehicle loans have returned to pre-crisis levels and vehicle loans outstanding reached a high of $875 billion in Q1,” according to Enenajor and Berlin. “We see this rebound, along with decreasing average credit scores for new vehicle loans, as a sign that credit conditions fore vehicle loans are easing.” Following the 9% surge in motor vehicle sales in July, some are worried that easy credit conditions are artificially driving demand. While Enenajor and Berlin expect a "bumpy ride," they see a longer-term upside for vehicle sales as the U.S. economy improves. FREE AppDownload
Michael Kors Shares of Michael Kors are lower in pre-market trade despite the retailer reporting earnings and revenue that crushed expectations.  For its fiscal first quarter, the luxury accessories maker earned $0.91 per share on revenue of $919.2 million, topping expectations for $0.81 and $851.66 million, respectively. Comparable store sales in the first quarter also surged 24.2%. In pre-market trade, shares of Michael Kors were up 5% but have reversed lower and are currently down about 3%.  In its first quarter earnings release, Michael Kors CEO John Idol said, "In North America, revenue increased 30%, with comparable store sales growth of 18.7%. In addition, the 30% growth in our North American wholesale segment reflects ongoing momentum in our brand as well as the continued benefit from our shop-in-shop conversions. In Europe, we were extremely pleased with our revenue growth of 128%, which was driven by a comparable store sales increase of 54.2%, as well as strength in our wholesale business. Lastly, revenue in Japan increased 89%, driven by comparable store sales growth of 48.8%." For its full fiscal-year, Michael Kors also gave earnings and revenue guidance that topped current analyst estimates. Kors expects earnings per share of $4.00-$4.25, better than the $3.96 analysts expect, on revenue of $4.25-$4.35 billion which is more than the $4.2 billion currently expected by analysts.  FREE AppDownload
Sonja Heikkilä Sonja Heikkilä.By now it's become clear that Scandinavians and Nordic nations do a lot of things better than other countries. They have the smallest gender gaps, among the highest test scores, and the lowest levels of inequality. Now, they're set to rub their transportation superiority in our faces. Finland's capital, Helsinki, is about to launch a program that could virtually eliminate car ownership and give its residents the ability to plot an on-demand commute from their phones.   It's mostly the vision of Sonja Heikkilä, a 24-year-old Helsinki transportation engineer.  Her idea was to create a real-time marketplace for customers to choose among transport providers and piece together the fastest or cheapest way of getting where they need to go. The providers' services would be distilled into an app through which a customer could plan a route. In her master's thesis, Heikkilä used the character of Taneli, a 34-year-old married father of four young children, to demonstrate how the whole thing works. Helsinki already has a dial-up bus service called Kutsuplus (Finnish for “call plus”), which for more than a year has been letting riders dial up a minibus on their phone, choose their route, and select whether they want their own private ride, according to Wired. Here's what the Kutsuplus app looks like:   Heikkilä's vision combines minibus shuttle service with city bicycles and ride-sharing to all but eliminate the need for cars: [Taneli] usually bicycles with his own bike to a station, ascends a bus, and carries the bicycle with him in the bus or leaves his own bicycle at the station and continues the trip with a city bike. In case the conditions are not satisfying for bicycling, Taneli finds a car or ride-sharing service with the help of a platform that he uses through the mobile phone. In addition, a daily demand responsive transport service, such as Kutsuplus, fetches [his son] and his classmates from preschool and conveys them [home], where they can continue spending the afternoon together.  "One app would allow to plan the entire route, including all modes," she told Business Insider in an email. "However, there would be several competing apps, as there would be several private companies running the mobility operator business." Heikkilä said the idea came about because Helsinki is growing too fast for its current transportation options, with a population projected to increase 40% in the next 35 years. As a result, many people are forced to own a car, but 95% of a car's life is spent parked at home or at work, according to Heikkilä. Widespread car ownership also runs counter to Finland's environmental ambitions. Plus, there's been a generational shift in attitudes about cars.  "First of all, the young want to be connected at all times," she said. "They value convenience and spontaneity. They are also very familiar with technology and expect systems to function well. Additionally, the phenomena of sharing economy and 'servicizing' [organizing and selection of a service is bought and performed by a third party, and customers receive merely the outcome of the actions] are rising. The city of Helsinki wants to meet these changing requirements."  Right now, the city has a monopoly on public transit, but the public sector moves too slow to adapt to changing transport demands, Heikkilä said. At the same time, Helsinkians are uncomfortable with full-on privatization. The transportation engineer hopes to combine the best of both worlds. "We want to allow the emerging mobility operators to sell all mobility services, including public transit," Heikkilä said. "The core of our work is to determine what the public sector and the city of Helsinki can do to enable and promote the emergence of this kind of mobility service ecosystem and mobility operator market."  Heikkilä credits Sampo Hietanen of ITS Finland, a not-for-profit public/private sector association that promotes transportation innovation, with having pioneered the concept of "Mobility As A Service" in Finland. In a presentation earlier this year, Hietanen predicted transport would be hit by a "tsunami wave" of change on par with the digital revolution in communications. Soon, commuters will be able to purchase mobility plans, as they would a cell phone service, at rates according to their needs. The Swedish city of Gothenburg has already rolled out a similar service, called UbiGo, though on a much smaller scale. The Helsinki plan will eventually operate citywide.  "We do not want to launch a project on this but truly create a permanent service ecosystem, which companies may enter at any time," Heikkilä said.  The pilots in certain Helsinki neighborhoods will be launched early next year. Heikkilä said any city that already had a decent public transport system in place could adopt their model. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidTraders work, as a television shows U.S. President Barack Obama speak about unemployment figures, on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange, November 5, 2010.Dave Lutz of JonesTrading has the top topics about which traders are talking today. US Futures are near the highs of the overnight, gaining 50bp as they try to recover from last week’s slide as about $1.2tn was wiped off the value of global stocks last week.   Thanks to Month-End, Fed and ‘Good Harbor’ positioning, Smallcaps were hit for almost 3% on Thursday and Friday – I’ll be looking for a reversal, and IWM is slightly outperforming SPY early this AM.    Good tailwinds from EU, with EuroStoxx up almost 75bp as Portugal moves to contain BES, propelling Banks by 1.5%.    Asia mostly a strong overnight, led by a 1.7% jump in China as Banks ripped higher as the PBoC moves to lower financing costs – While India rebounded 1% from the post-budget selloff.   Japan was weaker, as focus comes on the BOJ this week.     The US 10YY is flat, but all the PIIGS Yields are tighter this AM to Bunds on BES.    That “Policy Sensitive” 2YY remains under pressure, despite losing 10bp late last week as hawks got quiet.    The DXY is higher, as the Dollar gains some ground against EUR and Yen – causing a headwind for commodities.  Focus remains on the Crude Complex, which is sliding red again led by demand concerns from Refinery outages (Coffeyville) and shutdowns on shrinking margins – Oil’s VIX leapt 17% last week.   We are seeing some life in Grains, led by Wheat jumping 1.7% on EU quality concerns, while Gold continues to wander near 2M lows below the 200dma.   Very Quiet Economic Day, we get ISM NY at 9:45, and a small POMO at 11.   Macro Traders will be busy tonight though, with Rate decisions from Aussie and India, as well as PMIs from China and Japan ahead of the US print tomorrow. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Daniel Munoz In this week's Barron's cover story, Jonathan Laing explores some of the hidden risks of exchange-traded funds, or ETFs. ETFs are securities that trade on an exchange, like a stock, and are designed to track the performance of a certain index or sector of the market. One of the most popular ETFs, for example, is the SPDR S&amp;P 500 ETF, which trades under the ticker symbol 'SPY' and seeks to track the performance of the S&amp;P 500. A primary concern Laing addresses is how ETFs will act during a market downturn, writing that: "For all their popularity and éclat, exchange-traded funds are like blockbuster drugs — hugely beneficial when used correctly, but not bereft of potential adverse side effects." Laing cites Rick Ferri, who uses ETFs in his money management business and has written extensively about these instruments, who said ETFs "performed admirably" during the financial crisis. He added, however, that the industry is now three times larger. Ferri said that ETFs now cover "so many more illiquid asset classes that investors could suffer adverse consequences in the next major market down that we don't know of yet." And as the industry has grown, ETFs risk becoming more important the indexes they represent. Laing: [Mark Wiedman, head of BlackRock's iShares] really turned heads when he asserted in a June 29, 2013, letter to iShares fund-holders that 'more and more, ETFs — rather than the underlying indexes that are supposed to drive them — 'are becoming the true market.' In other words, if investor fears cause the market for bonds or some other asset effectively to freeze up, ETFs may well be the only thing left trading. In such cases, the ETF in a very real sense 'becomes' the market. Is that desirable, or even advisable? Probably not: That 'cure' is worse than the disease. To avoid the financial peril that can come with getting stuck in a ETF vulnerable to large market swings, Laing writes that investors should stick to ETFs "representing broad, liquid parts of the market and offered by reputable companies." You can read Laing's full write up at Barron's here.  Also in Barron's this week, Lawrence Strauss takes a look at data-storage company EMC, which has seen shares underperform in recent years, though the stock has recently come to life.Darren McCollester/Getty Images Strauss notes that Elliott Management, the hedge fund led by Paul Singer, has taken a 2% stake in EMC and is urging the company to spin off data-center software company VMware. EMC owns 80% of VMware, which is now almost as large as EMC with a market cap of $43 billion compared with EMC's $60 billion, Strauss writes. "Even if VMware isn't spun off — and there's a good chance that it won't be, at least in the short term — EMC should do fine with its federation structure, though it could take longer for the stock to move," Strauss writes. "So, regardless of what course EMC chooses, its stock should come out from under the cloud that's been hovering over it." Read Strauss' full report at Barron's here. FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's BlogThe US economy appears on my worry list only indirectly and only because it is performing well, showing no signs of a recession. That’s bearish only if the Fed’s response of starting to raise interest rates in baby steps triggers an unanticipated financial crisis simply because interest rates have been too close to zero for too long. A rush out of corporate bond funds could be one of the consequences with recessionary consequences, or maybe not. It’s something to watch. For now, let the good times roll: At the beginning of every month, the Bureau of Labor Statistics provides a whole bunch of labor market indicators. The latest batch was very upbeat. Everyone focuses on payroll employment. Debbie and I focus on our Earned Income Proxy (EIP), which is payroll employment times average weekly hours worked times average hourly earnings, all in the private sector. It is highly correlated with private wages and salaries (a major component of personal income), and also with retail sales. The EIP rose 0.2% during July, following a jump of 0.5% the previous month. It is at a record high. So is private wages and salaries, which rose 0.5% m/m and 5.8% y/y during June. This augurs well for consumer spending during the third quarter. Today's Morning Briefing: Complacency Disturbed. (1) Bad two days in a long bull market. (2) Dow Theory is bearish in theory. (3) Corrections are not required by law. (4) Recessions, not old age, kill bulls. (5) Sanctions against Russia could weaken Europe too. (6) Don’t cry for hold-outs in Argentina. (7) Normalizing Fed policy shouldn’t cause a recession. (8) Bad news on Japanese wages. (9) Terrorists, WTO, and Ebola. (10) Earnings need time to catch up with valuation. (11) Earned Income Proxy at new high, auguring well for US consumer spending. (12) “Get on Up” (+ +). (More for subscribers.)Dr. Ed's Blog FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Michael McDonoughTung Ping Chau Island, Hong KongMarkets got rocked on Thursday. The Dow’s 317-point plunge put the index in the red for the year. And there appears to be no shortage of worries to have investors a bit freaked out. "Disturbing geopolitical events are now added to a list of fundamental investor concerns (QE tapering, a chronic shortage of sensible investment opportunities, weak inflation, lackluster profit growth, etc.) that in our view were largely being ignored by investors desperate for yield," Societe Generale's Andrew Lapthorne said in a note to clients Friday. "However this investor complacency encouraged and supported by low asset volatility, buoyant equity prices and extremely low bond yields is increasingly being tested." The hottest topic lately seems to be the mixed signals sent by wage data, which are directly tied to employment and inflation. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Story Economic Calendar Market Commentary On Friday, Deutsche Bank's David Bianco revised his house views position on stocks "to neutral from cautious." "The S&amp;P’s PE premium vs. history stands on the shoulders of bonds and also dampened summer volatility despite various growth and geopolitical concerns," he wrote. "However, this week’s combination of reports with accelerating US GDP, strong job gains and rising labor costs suggest that the pricing of uncertainties in risk assets is being reexamined given likely rising treasury yields; which cuts into existing risk spreads and puts focus on fair spreads with more normal Rf rates." For more insight about the middle market, visit mid-marketpulse.com. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/StringerA fisherman transports a dead whale shark after it was caught in a fisherman's net, in Yangzhi county, Fujian province on Friday. According to local media, the whale shark is 5 meters long and weighs over 2 tons.Good morning! Here's what you need to know. 1.  Banco Espirito Santo Quarantined. Portugal will spend 4.9 billion euros, or $6.6 billion, to break up troubled Banco Espirito Santo into a "good" bank and a "bad" bank, the latter entity holding the firm's non-performing loans. The deal, which deploys leftover funds from Portugal's IMF bailout, protects taxpayers and senior creditors while leaving shareholders and junior bondholders to shoulder most of the damage. Junior debt BES debt is now trading at 20 cents on the dollar. "The rescue, which will destroy much of the value of investments made by equity and subordinated debt holders, is seen as a test case for a tougher stance by EU regulators, who have promised to protect taxpayers from the cost of bailing out mismanaged banks," the FT said.  2.  Junk Bond Markets Drying Up. The Wall Street Journal's Katy Burne reports that investors have begun exiting junk bond markets on fears of a Fed rate hike, noting that junk bonds lost an average of 1.33% last month, their second-worst monthly performance since November 2011. "The downdraft in junk debt highlights concerns that purchasers in the $1.6 trillion U.S. market, lured by higher income than on government and highly rated corporate bonds, have paid too much for the securities," Burne writes. "Prices have rallied, sending yields to levels too low to compensate buyers for the risk of the investments, many investors say. The tremors are being closely scrutinized across Wall Street. Many investors this year have expressed concerns that a pullback in junk-bond prices could signal that market participants are rethinking their willingness to take risk, foreshadowing further declines in stocks and other risky assets." 3.  Now Armenia and Azerbaijan Are Fighting. As if things couldn't get worse in the region, leaders from the two eastern European nations will meet this week to stave off war after 18 soldiers were killed in border clashes last week. The two countries signed a cease-fire in 1984.  4.  ISIS Closes In On Iraq's Largest Dam. Extremist forces were able to rout Kurdish pesh merga fighters to make unexpected gains in the country's north, The New York Times reports. "The seizing of the three towns in a triangle that stretches north and west from Mosul to the borders of Syria and Turkey allowed the extremists to expand their territory, but the capture of the Mosul Dam would be a bigger prize, and could give the militants the ability to unleash a deadly flood on large populations," The Times says. 5.  Europe Investor Sentiment Hurt By Sanctions. The latest Sentix survey shows morale among investors in the eurozone slumped to 2.7 in August, the lowest level in a year, and down from 10.1 in July, Reuters says. "After last month's recovery the euro zone Sentix index has suffered a painful setback," Sentix said in a statement, attributing it to sharply reduced growth expectations because of the sanctions. "As this slump derives from an event which is subject to politics and power play, the central banks, particularly the European Central Bank, will have difficulty in trying to counter this," Sentix added. 6.  Rousseff's Pain Is Gain For Real. Nomura now assigns a 70% chance that Brazil President Dilma Rousseff's party will lose in October elections, up from 60% in June. That decline has coincided with a $0.05 gain in forecasts for Brazil's currency, the real, Bloomberg reports. Brazil has seen the lowest rate of growth since 1992. If the market assigns a higher likelihood of Dilma losing, that’s good for the real,” Ezequiel Aguirre, a strategist at Bank of America in New York, told Bloomberg. 7.  HSBC Reports First 6-Month Profit Decline Since 2009. Europe's largest bank reported Monday that pretax earnings had declined 12% to $12.3 billion from $14.1 billion a year earlier. That was short of forecasts. Investment banking profits also fell 12%. "Chief Executive Officer Stuart Gulliver has exited at least 68 businesses since taking over in 2011, eroding revenue, as the bank invests in its most profitable markets amid increased regulation and compliance costs," Bloomberg said. "HSBC, which gets the bulk of its profit from Asia, is striving to keep bad loans under control and cut as much as $3 billion of expenses as earnings from investment banking falls." 8.  Earnings. This morning we get Michael Kors and Loews. After the bell we get AIG and Marathon Oil.  9. Markets. U.S. futures were up 0.3%. Japan's Nikkei fell 0.3%. Hong Kong's Hang Seng climbed 0.2%. London's FTSE was up 0.5%. Germany's DAX was up 0.1%.  10.  No Major Econ Data. The Giants rallied late to beat the Bills, 17-13, in the Hall of Fame game in Canton, Ohio, kicking off the NFL season.  FREE AppDownload
As everyone wonders whether last week's market drop will develop into a full-blown "correction" — or a crash — here's something to consider:  Earnings don't have to drop for the market to tank. One of the arguments you hear from those who scoff at the idea that stocks will drop is that, even though corporate profit margins are at record highs, they see nothing that would cause margins—and, thus, earnings—to fall. This argument ignores the fact that investors rarely see what will cause earnings or stocks to drop ahead of time. Only in hindsight are such "catalysts" screamingly obvious. More importantly, this argument ignores the fact that earnings don't need to fall for stocks to to drop. John Hussman of the Hussman Funds reminds us of this, by quoting a paragraph from a weekly letter he wrote in 2007, just before the market crashed: “Abrupt market weakness is generally the result of low risk premiums being pressed higher. There need not be any collapse in earnings for a deep market decline to occur. The stock market dropped by half in 1973-74 even while S&amp;P 500 earnings grew by over 50%. The 1987 crash was associated with no loss in earnings. Fundamentals don't have to change overnight. There is in fact zero correlation between year-over-year changes in earnings and year-over-year changes in the S&amp;P 500. Rather, low and expanding risk premiums are at the root of nearly every abrupt market loss. One of the best indications of the speculative willingness of investors is the ‘uniformity’ of positive market action across a broad range of internals. Probably the most important aspect of last week's decline was the decisive negative shift in these measures.” In 2007, of course, the market plunge was followed by a collapse in corporate earnings. But the drop wasn't visible until after stocks had begun to fall. This week, Hussman also points out that those market "internals" he mentions in the paragraph above have started to break down again. Even though the S&amp;P 500 is still not far of its all-time high, the Dow is now down for the year. Junk bonds have tanked as investors have remembered en masse that companies sometimes default. And the advance-decline line has turned down with the rest of the market. Hussman summarizes these trends below. Taken together, he says, they're bad news. Historically-informed investors are being given a hint of advance warning here, in the form of a strenuously overvalued market that now demonstrates a clear breakdown in internals. We observe these breakdowns in the form of surging credit spreads (junk bond yields versus Treasury yields of similar maturity), weakness in small capitalization stocks, and other measures. These divergences have actually been building for months, but rather quietly. Note, for example, that as the S&amp;P 500 pushed to new highs in recent weeks, cumulative advances less declines among NYSE stocks failed to confirm those highs, while junk bond prices were already deteriorating. We don’t take any single divergence as serious in itself, but the accumulation of divergences in recent weeks should not be ignored. Notably, the majority of NYSE stocks are now below their respective 200-day moving averages (which again, isn’t serious in itself, but feeds into a larger syndrome of internal breakdowns in a market that remains strenuously overvalued). John Hussman What does it all mean? Combined with the 1) extreme valuations and 2) Fed tightening we have written about frequently in recent months, it means that, if you're not considering the possibility of a major market drop, you're probably making the same mistake that investors often make: Assuming that, because something hasn't happened in the past few years, it can't or won't happen. SEE ALSO: Yes, Stocks Could Drop 50%  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidTraders work at Bloomberg terminals on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange on May 13, 2013.Wall Street firms led by Goldman Sachs Group Inc are close to buying a stake in chat and instant messaging startup Perzo Inc in pursuit of an alternative to a similar application from Bloomberg LP, sources familiar with Goldman's plans said. Banks are trying to cut costs as sluggish trading volumes and higher regulation weigh on revenues. Bloomberg has dominated messaging on Wall Street for years, but its application is part of a data, trading, and news terminal that costs about $20,000 a year. The Perzo applications are free. Several banks and asset managers are considering an investment in Perzo, including Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co, Bank of America Corp, Deutsche Bank AG, HSBC Holdings PLC, BlackRock Inc, and the hedge fund Maverick Capital Ltd, said two sources briefed on the matter who declined to comment publicly.  The companies, which have received term sheets for the deal and signed non-disclosure agreements in recent days, either declined to comment or did not respond to requests for comment in time for publication. Goldman Sachs spokespeople declined to comment on its Perzo investment, its plans to develop a chat program, or its use of Bloomberg terminals. Bloomberg declined to comment for this story. Perzo is a startup based in Palo Alto, California, that was founded by David Gurle, who declined a request for comment. Perzo’s application differs from Bloomberg's in that it is "open-source," meaning customers can plug it into their systems and alter it as they see fit, whereas Bloomberg customers have to buy the entire terminal and can't just buy the messaging system and adapt it. Banks have been looking for messaging alternatives to Bloomberg's closed system for years and have had limited success because the Bloomberg system is used by so many on Wall Street. One source compared Bloomberg to Blackberry, whose product dominated the smart phone market until Apple came out with its iPhone. Thomson Reuters, which competes with Bloomberg in news, data, and analytics, has a chat system with more than 200,000 users in its directory, compared with Bloomberg's 320,000. Thomson Reuters has also collaborated with price data provider Markit and banks including Goldman Sachs to create an open messaging network. Goldman Sachs spokespeople declined to comment on its use of Thomson Reuters terminals. Reuters spokespeople declined to comment. It's unclear what effect a successful new messaging system might have on Goldman's orders for Bloomberg terminals, or whether Goldman would use Bloomberg’s messaging system alongside the new application. "Bloomberg is a very tough ecosystem to break," Jefferies analyst Dan Dolev said. "People say it is the most expensive social network system in the world." Bloomberg's rise began in the 1980s when it became a prime source for data and analytics about bonds. Messaging applications play a critical role in the daily functioning of Wall Street. An underwriter will use messaging programs to tell investors where a bond has priced. Hedge fund managers use messaging applications to talk about trading ideas, and traders use them to talk to sales staff. To succeed, a bank messaging system must be secure, because of the sensitive information transmitted through the application. It must allow for central monitoring, so compliance staff and other officials can monitor conversations to make sure the bank is following securities trading regulations. PROJECT BABEL Goldman Sachs has been looking at alternatives to Bloomberg's messaging program for years, and it launched a project internally called "Babel" in early 2013 to develop a competitor, according to two sources. As that project was underway, the bank learned that reporters in Bloomberg's news division had access to information about bank professionals that it assumed had been private, such as when an employee had last logged into his or her terminal, the sources said. The discovery strained relationships between Bloomberg and Goldman, as well as other large financial clients. Bloomberg publicly apologized and changed its policy to bar reporters from accessing client data. The Babel project has been led by Goldman Chief Information Officer R. Martin Chavez, who has spent much of his career building technology for the Wall Street bank, the sources said. Darren Cohen, who heads Goldman's principal strategic investments group, got involved when it was decided that it might be easier to simply buy a startup that already had technology that could help meet Babel's goals. Goldman recently reached out to other banks to get them involved, the sources said. (Reporting by Lauren Tara LaCapra and Jennifer Saba in New York.; Editing by Dan Wilchins and John Pickering) FREE AppDownload
APPresident Barack Obama has a message for the CEOs of corporate America: Quit complaining. In an interview with The Economist published over the weekend, Obama said corporations have done well under his administration's policies, and he argued it was time to turn their attention to making the lives of the middle class better. "They always complain about regulation. That’s their job," Obama told the magazine. "Let’s look at the track record. Let’s look at the facts. Since I have come into office, there’s almost no economic metric by which you couldn’t say that the U.S. economy is better and that corporate bottom lines are better. None." Obama went on to list the good in the U.S. economy: a climbing stock market, "record corporate profits," the best growth in the job market since 1997, the deficit being continually cut, energy and "clean energy" sectors that he said were booming, and an unemployment rate lower than the height of the financial downturn in 2008. Looking at the past five or six years, Obama said, the "last people" who should be complaining are the ones at the top 1%. Obama's presidency has always been perceived to have a mixed relationship with big business. Right now, the White House is pushing Congress to address what it views as the problem of corporate "inversions," in which U.S. corporations move their tax domiciles abroad. But he is also prodding Congress to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank, which is generally supported by the business community. Obama also said corporations generally support comprehensive immigration reform and certainty in regulation on climate change. Part of it, he said, is a difference between how CEOs and their lobbyists in Washington operate. "There are always going to be areas where business does not want to be regulated because regulations are inconvenient," Obama said. "I would take the complaints of the corporate community with a grain of salt. If you look at what our policies have been, they have generally been friendly towards business, while at the same time recognizing there are certain core interests — fiscal interests, environmental interests, interests in maintaining stability of the financial system — where, yes, we’re placing constraints on them. It probably cuts into certain profit centers in their businesses. I understand why they would be frustrated by it, but the flip side of it is that they’d be even more unhappy if the global financial system unravels. Nobody has more of a stake in it than them." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueHere's the downside of sanctions: They hurt the countries applying the sanctions as well the target countries. A fresh measure of investor sentiment from Sentix shows confidence in the eurozone plunging sharply because of the sanctions being imposed on Russia. From Reuters: The Sentix research group's index tracking morale among investors in the eurozone slumped to 2.7 in August, its lowest level in a year, from 10.1 in July. The consensus forecast in a Reuters poll had been for the sentiment index to ease slightly to 9.0. "After last month's recovery the eurozone Sentix index has suffered a painful setback," Sentix said in a statement, attributing it to sharply reduced growth expectations because of the sanctions. "As this slump derives from an event which is subject to politics and power play, the central banks, particularly the European Central Bank, will have difficulty in trying to counter this," Sentix added. The report notes that Germany, in particular, is seeing a sharp downturn. Sentix It should be noted that by and large, the sanctions that have been imposed on Russia are not considered to be that steep. And yet already signs of pain are being felt in Europe. No wonder no true action is likely to be taken against Putin. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersAn employee of the Tokyo Stock Exchange stretches at the bourse in TokyoTOKYO (Reuters) - Fears of further declines on Wall Street kept Asian shares mostly on the defensive on Monday, with concerns over geopolitical tensions eclipsing U.S. data that argued against an earlier start to the Federal Reserve's rate-tightening cycle. MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacificshares outside Japan &lt;.MIAPJ0000PUS&gt; managed to gain 0.4 percent, largely as Chinese shares continued to rally on signs that economy was regaining momentum after a spate of stimulus measures. But Japan's Nikkei average &lt;.N225&gt; hit a one-week low and investors were cautious in most developed markets after the U.S. S&amp;P 500 &lt;.SPX&gt; lost 2.7 percent last week, its biggest weekly decline in more than two years to hit two-month lows. European shares were expected to edge up slightly after their steep fall last week, with spreadbetters see France's CAC40 &lt;.FCHI&gt; rising as much as 0.4 percent and Britain's FTSE &lt;.FTSE&gt; up to 0.2 percent. European shares led the losses last week, with German shares falling 4.5 percent &lt;.GDAXI&gt;, pummelled by concerns over tension between Russia and the West as well as losses at Banco Espirito Santo &lt;BES.LS&gt;, the biggest bank in Portugal. Lisbon on Sunday unveiled a 4.9 billion euros ($6.58 billion) rescue plan for the bank, testing the euro zone's resilience to another banking crisis just months after Lisbon exited an international bailout. U.S. stock futures &lt;ESc1&gt; suggested a modestly firmer opening in New York later in the day, rising 0.4 percent. Investors also have been worrying about the impact of sanctions against Russia. About 40 European blue-chips, including many German companies, derive more than 5 percent of their revenues from the Russian market. "The impact of sanctions can be big when consumption is not so strong worldwide. U.S. consumption is perhaps okay, but Japan is weak and in Europe evenGermany seems to be losing steam. I think the market is still under-estimating the impact of the sanctions on Russia," said a trader at a Japanese bank. Argentine's debt default last week also added to the gloom, even though it has so far had limited spillover to any other emerging markets. "The fact that U.S. financial shares fell sharply even though they have very limited exposure to Argentine and Portugal suggests just how markets are getting nervous about high valuations," said Yasuo Sakuma, portfolio manager at Bayview Asset Management. Many world share markets had rallied for much of this year on hopes that the U.S. economic growth will pick up while at the same time the Fed will also maintain zero interest rates at least until the middle of next year to support the economy. Friday's U.S. job data provided little reason for the Fed to hurry in raising rates. Although the closely-watched monthly payroll gains topped the 200,000 mark for six months in a row, the unemployment rate rose to 6.2 percent and average hourly earnings rose only one cent, showing little inflationary pressure. Still, some analysts say the data portends possible risk for U.S. shares as it shows U.S. growth is growing but hardly accelerating. "One reason there's no sign of wage inflation is because job gains in the past year have been concentrated on low-paid jobs," said Tohru Yamamoto, chief fixed income strategist at Daiwa Securities. "So overall, yes, the data was solid. But it shows no sign of acceleration, which will spell troubles for stocks as their valuation is based on the assumption that growth will pick up," he added. U.S. Treasury debt prices rose as traders trimmed bets the Fed would push rates up in the first half of next year. The rate-sensitive two-year notes yield fell more than five basis points to around 0.480 percent &lt;US2YT=RR&gt;. The 10-year yield also dropped to 2.507 percent &lt;US10YT=RR&gt;, off three-week high of 2.614 percent, hit on Thursday. As U.S. debt yields fell back, the dollar took a breather, with its index against a basket of major currencies off a 10-1/2-month high hit on Thursday. The dollar index stood at 81.343 &lt;.DXY&gt;, down from Thursday's high of 81.573. "The July jobs data won't change the Fed's benign stance as it was about as 'goldilocks' as it could be," said Shane Oliver, Head of Investment Strategy at AMP Capital in Sydney. The euro fetched $1.3422 &lt;EUR=&gt;, little changed in early trade but off last week's 8-month low of $1.3366. The dollar stood at 102.64 yen &lt;JPY=&gt;, down from 103.15 yen, a four-month peak hit on Wednesday. Oil prices were under pressure as oversupply in the Atlantic basin and low demand outweighed worries over political tensions in the Middle East, North Africa andUkraine. U.S. crude futures traded at $97.93 per barrel &lt;CLc1&gt;, after having hit a six-month low of $97.09 on Friday. The market has so far shown muted response to the news that Islamic State fighters seized control of Iraq's biggest dam, an oilfield and three more towns on Sunday after inflicting their first major defeat on Kurdish forces since sweeping across much of northern Iraq in June. (Additional reporting by Tomo Uetake in Tokyo and Ian Chua in Sydney; Editing by Shri Navaratnam &amp; Kim Coghill) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/China DailyA general view shows collapsed houses after an earthquake hit Ludian county, Yunnan province August 3, 2014.Good morning! Here's what people will be taking about on Monday.  1. Israel pulled most of its ground troops from Gaza on Sunday, though "with Hamas officials vowing to continue their fight, it remains uncertain whether Israel can unilaterally end the war," the Associated Press said. The positive development comes after news that a third U.N. school housing Palestinian refugees was struck by Israeli forces.  2. Portugal announced late Sunday that it will rescue troubled lender Banco Espirito Santo under a plan that splits the bank in two and pumps €4.9 billion ($6.6 billion) into a healthy division that will be rebranded as Novo Banco, or New Bank. Current BES shareholders will be responsible for problem loans and other toxic assets that will stay in the bad part of the bank.  3. A 6.5-magnitude earthquake that struck China's southern province of Yunnan on Sunday has killed at least 367 people and injured around 1,800, the country's official news agency Xinhua reported. Nearly 12,000 residential homes were destroyed in the disaster, Xinhua said.  4. Roughly 400,000 people in Toledo, Ohio, have been told not to drink the water after tests showed high levels of toxins from algal blooms in Lake Eerie. City regulators are waiting on new sample results before before deeming the water safe to drink again as the toxin cannot be destroyed by boiling.  5. A U.S. spy plane crossed into Swedish airspace last month to avoid being detected by Russian aircraft, The New York Times reported. In a statement, The United States European Command said that U.S. officials incorrectly directed the American plane into Swedish territory but that the jet left "after Swedish air traffic controllers informed the aircraft of the mistake," The Times wrote. 6. An American missionary infected by Ebola while working in West Africa was flown from Liberia to Emory University in Atlanta where his condition seems to be improving. In response to concerns about the spread of Ebola in the U.S., the director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said: “He’s an American citizen, and what our role is in public health is to make sure that if an American is coming home with an infectious disease we protect so it doesn’t spread. That was what we did in transit and at the hospital.”  7. Wall Street firms including Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan are thinking about investing in instant messaging startup Perzo as an alternative to the Bloomberg terminal, Reuters first reported. According to the Financial Times: "The new chat function would compete with Bloomberg’s messaging offering but would come with a much lower price tag and could also be plugged in to different systems." 8. Candlelight vigils are being held across the U.K. on Monday to mark 100 years since Britain entered the first world war. On Sunday, German president Joachim Gauck and French president François Hollande met at a monument in Hartmannswillerkopf where 12,000 unidentified soldiers from both countries are buried. 9. Following French wireless company Iliad's offer to buy T-Mobile for $15 billion, sources familiar with the situation told Reuters that the Paris-based company will have trouble cutting costs at the small mobile carrier to meet "its goal of generating $2 billion in additional annual operating profit." Roger Enter, an analyst at Recon Analytics in Boston, said: "T-Mobile is not bloated at all. It is cut to the bone." 10. Forecasters say Tropical Storm Bertha is unlikely to make landfall in the U.S. after it headed away from Turks &amp; Caicos late Sunday. Earlier, the storm brought downpours and flooding to the Dominican Republic.  And finally... A 150-pound tortoise found wandering the streets of a Los Angeles suburb was picked up by two members from the Alhambra Police Department and returned to its owners, the Associated Press reported. The tortoise is named Clark.  FREE AppDownload
