There were huge pro-Democracy protests in Hong Kong this week, and as we already noted, state media in China reacted pretty awkwardly, describing the event as a big chance for everyone to exercise and have a jolly old time. That wasn't the only hilarious response to the protests, however. The media also tried to depict a massive pro-mainland demonstration. Except as internet sleuths quickly observed (via @cloudyip) the propagandists failed Photoshop 101. This was supposedly a photo of a 500,000 strong pro-mainland protest, except even in a tiny crowd, you can see the same faces used multiple times. Liberty Times Net This comic on Facebook has some fun with the Photoshop failure: FREE AppDownload
May retail sales for Australia are out and it is a terrible number. Sales fell 0.5% month-on-month, seasonally adjusted. Earlier this week the market expected 0.1% growth. The fall follows a collapse in consumer sentiment that started in April, triggered by leaks around the severity of the government spending cuts in the federal budget. The warm winter is no doubt impacting on the seasonal factors and explains some of the big 0.5% fall in total retail with Clothing down 2% and Footwear and other personal accessory retailing off 2.9%. But the key point about this data is that May’s decline in sales comes on top of a 0.1% fall in April and a flat result in March. This means that economic momentum was already slowing and as RBA Governor Stevens said in Tuesday’s statement after the Board meeting and again in his speech today – Q1 economic strength was, or is, an apparition. So the budget hit sentiment and now spending it seems at a very fragile time. Indeed the data shows that the 12 month rate of change on retail sales has clearly slowed and the 3 month rate is sharply lower also. Business Insider Australia Given this data is now a month old and given consumer sentiment has not rebounded in any significant way the risk is that the retail sales sector is faced with more weakness in the months ahead. Follow Business Insider Australia on Facebook, Twitter, and LinkedIn This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
(Reuters) - Ousted American Apparel Inc &lt;APP.A&gt; Chief Executive Officer Dov Charney has handed over his entire stake and voting rights in the struggling retailer to Standard General LP, enabling the fund to negotiate directly with the independent directors over the company's future, two sources close to the matter said on Wednesday. Earlier Standard General had loaned its American Apparel shares to Charney, according to regulatory documents, allowing him to boost his stake in the company from about 27 percent to 43 percent. Charney had hoped to gain majority control, but American Apparel countered with an anti-takeover plan that prompted him to change his strategy. As a result, the 45-year-old American Apparel founder handed over his entire holdings to his ally Standard General, according to the sources, who requested anonymity because the talks are private. The retailer, which has refused to meet with Charney since he was suspended, has agreed to negotiate with the New York-based fund over the retailer's corporate governance structure and its financial condition, the sources said. It is unclear what changes will result, and the sources cautioned that the negotiations could still fall apart. American Apparel declined to comment. Standard General officials were not immediately available for comment. Charney, accused of misusing corporate funds and helping disseminate nude photos of an ex-employee, has also given up his battle to recover his CEO role until an investigation being led by FTI Consulting is completed, the sources said. According to regulatory filings earlier this week, Charney himself had intended to pursue discussions with the board and called for a special shareholder meeting on Sept. 25. Days earlier, American Apparel said it had adopted a "poison pill" takeover defense that would be triggered when shareholders who own more than 15 percent of the stock acquire an additional 1 percent or more. At the time Charney was in the process of building his shares. Standard General, known for investing in distressed companies such as RadioShack Corp &lt;RSH.N&gt;, has had a relationship with American Apparel. The fund provided capital in March when the retailer needed to make an interest payment to its largest bondholder, Monarch Alternative Capital, a third source familiar with the matter said. Amid the public battle between the company and its ex-CEO, American Apparel employees have expressed concern over the company's future, including a possible buyout, the sources said. Last week, a board director spent several hours at its main manufacturing facility in Los Angeles assuring employees that the company still cares about them and that the company is not for sale, one of the sources said.   (Reporting by Nadia Damouni and Jeffrey Dastin in New York; Editing by Jilian Mincer, Frank McGurty and Lisa Shumaker) FREE AppDownload
AP Photo On July 1, residents of Hong Kong turned out in historic numbers to protest the country's lack of democracy. Over 500,000 people are said to have come out to mark the 17th anniversary of the handover, which ended Colonial rule of the country, and gave power back to the mainland. So how did Chinese media respond? On the cover of China Daily, the event was marked as a "celebration" of the handover. Despite 510,000+ #July1HK protesters in streets, China Daily promotes "handover celebrations" A1 &amp; inside pages today pic.twitter.com/NgBNB2EI3i Writing in China Daily, the commentator Lau Nai-keung wrote a piece titled "What a crowd during the annual July 1 march!" (Via Marc Andreesen). There's so much that's hilarious in the piece, it's hard to know where to start, but we can start where he says it's all good, because the walking around is good for the sex lives of Hong Kong residents: On the bright side, the 20 rallies per day provide Hongkongers the opportunity to walk for an extended period of time. Walking has tremendous health benefits, and is a gentle, low-impact form of exercise that is easy, free and suitable for people of all ages and most abilities. Scientists have found that 30 minutes of walking per day helps deflect diabetes, soup up sex life, and prevent dementia, osteoporosis, and even cancer. That may be the reason why despite all the pollution, stress and negativity, Hongkongers are still outliving the rest of the world, giving our Financial Secretary John Tsang the “aging society” headache. Then he says a lot of the protesters were there against their will: The first group of people interviewed by the Post after the march started at 3 pm included the Shum family, which comprises a couple with two daughters — aged five and two. “My older daughter didn’t want to come as she said it’s so hot today but I tell her we have to come to protect our city,” Mr Shum was quoted as saying. Then the Post mentioned that the Shums “were spurred to attend by the proposed new towns development in the New Territories.” That is to say, in this group of four, half was underage and was brought against their will, all in the name of democracy. And the Shums weren’t even there really for democracy — at least not the “civic nominations” kind of democracy, as in the slogan of this year’s July 1 march. They were concerned about new towns development in the New Territories. Then the column characterizes the protests as just a jolly and general airing of grievances: The Post’s live feed also showed a photo (taken by Bryan Harris) with the captioned “Tom Lam, a tour guide who speaks seven languages, rails against corruption in Hong Kong’s courts.” If we read the words on Mr Lam’s placard carefully, we will find that his grievance has nothing to do with the popular narrative of the city’s “threatened judicial independence”. In fact, he was complaining about being denied legal aid and judicial review by our legal system.  All these amply demonstrated the fact that the July 1 march is now an established tradition, where people went for a walk and voiced various grievances. It is a jolly good thing to let it all out once a year. And then when you think the piece couldn't get more surreal, it ends with a big analogy to the Transformers movie: In the morning before the march, up to 20 members of the League of Social Democrats called for open elections and burned a copy of Beijing’s white paper outside the flag-raising ceremony in Bauhinia Square. Holding banners, they chanted “We do not fear the white paper.” The words remind me of what Optimus Prime said in the latest Transformers movie: “Humans asked us to play by the rules — but now the rules have changed.” Substitute “central government” for “humans”, and the League of Social Democrats might have a much better slogan. But have the rules been really changed? The new Transformers movie also mentioned that “The central government will fully defend Hong Kong.” And when the alien spaceship appeared hovering over Hong Kong, one Hong Kong policeman told the other “I am going to inform the central government.” Has the movie undermined “One Country, Two Systems”? Does the League of Social Democrats fear the Transformers? If not, will they march and chant “We do not fear the Transformers”? Amazing. FREE AppDownload
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Jamie Dimon, chairman and chief executive of JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co, &lt;JPM.N&gt; plans to be out of the office for at least half of his planned two-month course of radiation treatment and chemotherapy for throat cancer, a spokesman said on Wednesday. Dimon's four weeks of vacation could begin shortly after JPMorgan reports quarterly results on July 15, depending in part on how doctors set the details of his course of treatment, said spokesman Joseph Evangelisti. Dimon usually takes off about three weeks in August, traditionally one of the slower times of the year for business. Dimon first told employees and shareholders about his cancer late Tuesday in a memo sent shortly after a conclusive visit to his doctor. He had been through several days of tests. Dimon said in the memo that the treatment will stop him from traveling, but that he had been advised that he would "be able to continue to be actively involved" in the business. "We will continue to run the company as normal," Dimon said. JPMorgan shares closed down 1 percent on the New York Stock Exchange at $56.97. The decline was the steepest of the 24 stocks in the KBW index of bank stocks &lt;.BKX&gt;, which lost 0.1 percent. Rafferty Capital Markets bank analyst Dick Bove said in a report Wednesday Dimon was unlikely to retain his chairman title when he returns from treatment, and would likely spread more of his daily duties among other executives at the bank. "JPMorgan Chase simply cannot present itself to the world as if it were a one-man show," Bove wrote. Dimon has said in the past the bank has many senior executives who could step into his role if he were hit suddenly by a bus. Senior executives on the bank's operating committee include potential successors to Dimon, such as Daniel Pinto, the head of the corporate and investment bank; Matt Zames, chief operating officer; Gordon Smith, consumer banking head, and Mary Erdoes, asset management chief. The company has not named anyone to act in Dimon's place during his treatment. JPMorgan lead director Lee Raymond said at the bank's shareholder meeting in May last year that the board intended to have a viable successor to Dimon but he hoped Dimon would stay at JPMorgan far into the future. CAUGHT EARLY On days when Dimon will undergo treatments he expects to be able to go to his office, which is close to his home as well as his hospital, Memorial Sloan Kettering. Executives are used to dealing with him by phone, email and video conference because he usually travels frequently. In Tuesday's memo, Dimon quoted his doctors as having said his prognosis is excellent because the cancer was caught early. It is confined to the original site and to adjacent lymph nodes on the right side of his neck, he said. According to the National Cancer Institute, the survival rate for mouth and throat cancers diagnosed at any stage is 63 percent after five years. (Reporting by David Henry and Peter Rudegeair in New York; Editing by Bernadette Baum, Bernard Orr)   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Robert Galbraith FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. How To Tell If Muni Bonds Are Right For Your Portfolio (Vanguard) After a rough time in 2013, municipal bonds saw a reversal in 2014. But how does one know if a muni bond makes sense for their diversified portfolio? Daniel Wallick, principal at Vanguard Investment Strategy Group, says first investors need to determine their risk tolerance. "Let’s just talk about the three big buckets. You can have treasuries, which are guaranteed by the U.S. government. You can have municipals, which are guaranteed by a state or local government," he says. "Or you can have corporate bonds, which are guaranteed by some private company." "The risk level is the U.S. bonds are most secure. U.S. Treasuries are the most secure. Munis are next, and then corporates are there. So where are you in terms of that comfort level of how much risk you’re willing to take? It’s really the first question to ask. "The second one is, what’s the yield on munis, what’s your tax rate, and how does that relate to the other options you have? Is it a valuable investment based on that?" Bill Gross' Bond Fund Just Experienced Its 14th Straight Month Of Outflows (Morningstar)  PIMCO's flagship Total Return Fund saw its fourteenth month of net outflows, according to the latest data from Morningstar. The fund saw net outflows of $4.5 billion bringing the cumulative total to $64 billion. PIMCO has come under the scanner after the abrupt departure of Mohamed El-Erian earlier this year raised questions about PIMCO CEO Bill Gross' management style.  PIMCOHow Wealth Managers Can Hold On To Clients With Multiple Advisors (The Wall Street Journal)  It common for investors to have multiple advisors when they are still growing their assets and to settle on one when it's time to retire, writes Rob Kron, head of investment and retirement education for BlackRock's U.S. Wealth Advisory Group, in a WSJ column. But to be the one that manages to retain a client, Kron writes that advisors need to start initiating the discussion early. "Start with a qualitative line of questioning—asking the client about what they want to do in retirement and what resources they have available to make that happen," he writes. "For clients with realistic expectations, those discussions are going to be about the ways you'll help keep them on track to meet their goals. For clients whose expectations for their assets are greater than what those assets can realistically provide, it's about showing how you can help them close that gap." Regulatory Uncertainty Is The Top Reason Advisors Don't Use Social Media (InvestmentNews) Uncertainty about regulator requirements is the number one obstacle to advisors using social media, according to an InvestmentNews survey of 450 advisors. 55% of respondents said that was the biggest concern, and 55% also said there was firm mandated ban on at least one social media network. The survey also found that among those that do use social media 40% on use "canned content." This Chart Of Stock Market Inflection Points Is Starting To Get Pretty Scary (JP Morgan Funds) JP Morgan Funds is out with its Q3 'Guide to the Markets.' Every quarter, David Kelly and the J.P Morgan Funds market strategy team, highlight a chart of stock market inflection points — the two stock market pears and following crashes. The S&amp;P 500 is now around 1,960 and is trading at 15.6 times forecasted earnings, following a 190% run up, compared to 15.2 times earnings in 2007 that followed on 101% run up ahead of the crash.  JP Morgan Asset Management FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Adrees Latif It's a sellers market in Manhattan judging by the latest Douglas Elliman report. "Manhattan housing prices continued to press higher, driven by low inventory and seven consecutive quarters of year-over-year sales growth," according to the latest report. The luxury market had the most price gains, while homebuyers looking for affordability also helped drive the co-op market. "Much of the gain came from the co-op market, which comprised 59.5% of sales and a 9% rise in median sales price," according to the report. Median sales price in Manhattan was down 6.4% on the month but up 5.2% year-over-year in the second quarter to $910,000. The average sales price and average price per square foot were up 17.9% YoY and 10.4% YoY respectively, according the report. What's more, homes spent a lot less time on the market and sold at or above the asking price. Homes spent 96 days on the market, down from 115 days in Q1 2014, and 178 days a year ago. "The number of sales that closed at or above the list price at time of contract rose to 45.9%, the highest level reached since 51.6% in the third quarter of 2008," according to the report. The good news is inventory picked up as supply picked up faster than sales. Inventory was up 18% on the year to 5,659, with the biggest gains coming from the condo market. Douglas Elliman FREE AppDownload
Every quarter, JPMorgan Funds publishes this annotated chart of the S&amp;P 500 since 1997. It highlights the last two stock market peaks and subsequent crashes. Back when we saw it in April 2013, the S&amp;P 500 was at 1,569, which was just points from the Oct. 9, 2007, high.  Back then, the message was that valuations were actually attractive despite the elevated price levels. Unfortunately, that can't be said today. At around 1,960, the S&amp;P 500 is trading at around 15.6 times forecasted earnings, which is higher than 15.2 in 2007. And this comes after a 190% run up, which compares to the 101% gain ahead of the last market crash. There's obviously other things to consider than just forward earnings. But the bottom line: The stock market definitely isn't as cheap as it has been in recent months and years. JP Morgan Asset Management
Global wage inequality is expected rise, and economic growth is expected to slow, between now and 2060, according to a new report form the OECD. The report points out that widening earnings gap, "rising capital incomes (which tend to be highly concentrated), less redistributive tax and benefit systems, and changing household formation patterns," have all contributed to rising inequality in recent decades. "Rising inequalities threaten growth, most notably by blocking economic opportunities," according to the press release. The OECD projects that earnings inequality could grow between 17-40% by 2060. "Assuming that historical trends and relationships prevail - while GDP and educational attainment grow in line with the long-term growth projections – the widening of earnings dispersion would accelerate slightly to 0.6% in the central scenario over the coming 50 years, as the moderating effects of improvements in educational attainment on inequality will further diminish due to progressively slower human capital accumulation." OECDGlobal GDP growth is expected to grow by an annual average rate of 2.7% in 2030-2060, according to the report. This is much lower than the annual average 3.6% growth from 2014-2030, "owing to decreasing potential for catching-up, slower increases in human capital stocks, and shrinking labour forces." OECD The report argues that there need to be significant changes in policy to help workers learn key skills in order to lower inequality. Without these changes OECD countries could see inequality levels close to what we have in the U.S. today. FREE AppDownload
APBen Stein, the actor, cable news pundit, economist, and former speechwriter to presidents Nixon and Ford, published a lengthy column detailing his "crushes" on an "absolute knockout young Eurasian woman," a "breathtakingly beautiful middle-aged woman," a "beautiful cocktail party girl," "three glorious co-eds" and someone he described as "my secret gf from Mississippi."  "My main obsessions in my life are my wife, my dog, my son and his family, my secret gf from Mississippi, and any beautiful girl I meet. I am like a teenager. I get mad crushes and they last about ten minutes. Maybe less. Then it’s off to do the next indicated action," Stein wrote. Stein, whose website describes him as "the most famous economics teacher in America" and "a party guy, albeit an extremely serious economist," published the column in the June issue of the American Spectator. He is a senior editor at the magazine who regularly contributes dispatches as part of a feature called "Ben Stein's Diary." Stein and his wife, attorney Alexandra Denman, did not respond to multiple requests for comment from Business Insider Wednesday. Marcia Hurwitz, Stein's agent, also did not immediately respond to a phone call and email. American Spectator Managing Editor Kyle Peterson did not respond to multiple phone calls.  In his column, Stein cited his entanglements with various women as examples of his belief that every person he meets is a "door into that person’s world." The first tale Stein recounted in this series was a story about meeting a woman in San Francisco International Airport en route to a recent speaking engagement.  "I came across a stunningly beautiful, absolute knockout young Eurasian woman," Stein wrote. "I spoke to her for at most—absolutely most—five minutes. She told me she was half-Vietnamese and half-Dutch. She gave me her contact info and we have been in touch almost every day since." Stein said the woman, who he described as his "little pal," told him about her life, which included time working as a "call girl." He said she wanted help starting a career being "famous and successful." "She wants Ben Stein to help her become a writer. She wants an agent," wrote Stein. "She wants me to teach her how to be famous and successful as a writer—as if I knew." Stein said the woman eventually asked him for financial help and he was unable to turn her down. He went on to describe a relationship he had with a 32-year-old divorced single mother he met in a bar. "She’s a wild mixture of ethnicities and has a figure that is close to unbelievable. ... She wants to be a movie star. She wants me to help with her bills. I was almost speechless at her beauty, but I also could not quite believe how many boyfriends she’s had, including very famous movie, TV, music, and sports stars," wrote Stein. "If that’s her type—and God bless her if it is—she’s not really likely to see much in a sixty-nine-year-old, overweight, nerdy economist/commentator who can barely put on his socks. I told her that and she just laughed. She said she wanted to come visit me in L.A." Stein wrote that he told the woman she should come to LA and meet his wife. He said she subsequently tried to get him to book her a room at a hotel that cost more than $1,000 per night and asked him to give her over $2,000 for a dental bill.  He characterized his relationship with the ex-call girl and the divorcee as "two episodes" that "are typical of my life when I am traveling."  These "episodes" weren't the only adventures Stein detailed in his column. He also described a recent trip he made to Georgia for a speaking engagement. While there, he wrote that he met "three adorable co-eds from Georgia Regents University" while at a Waffle House restaurant. "They were the brightest spots of the day by far. Pretty, enthusiastic, polite…I love Southern girls," Stein wrote. Stein's admiration for the women of the South was reinforced later that day when he attended a cocktail party at a golf course. "There was a staggeringly gorgeous woman working at the party. Just a super beauty," wrote Stein. "I might add that if she had been any more polite she would have been an impossibility. But wow, where do these gorgeous Southern women come from? What is it? Genetics? Attitude? Something." Sadly, Stein wrote that the cocktail waitress did not attend his speech. However, all was not lost.  "The three glorious co-eds were there, beaming, cheerful, lovely," Stein wrote, adding, "I think I will bring them out to L.A. on granddad’s jet." Stein's column apparently attracted the attention of the National Enquirer, which released a report about Stein's alleged dealings with the divorcee. The Enquirer, which is not the most reliable source, claimed Stein called two times after the story was written and denied having a physical relationship with the woman. "I didn’t have sex with her!" Stein was quoted as saying. "At my age, I don’t even know if that’s possible." According to the Enquirer, Stein claimed his wife was fully aware of the situation. "We’ve been together since 1966," the tabloid quoted him as saying. "She knows everything. This is not a scandal, trust me." FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsA new government study shows that a decades-long trend toward retirement at a young age has reversed, probably because we can no longer afford it. In 1950 —45.8 percent of men 65 and older were working, according to a report on 65+ in the United States: 2010, released June 30 by the U.S. Census Bureau. Through the decades of the 1960s, '70s and '80s, generous pension plans made it ever likelier that men would hang up their work boots at earlier ages. By 1993, only 15.6 percent of men were working past age 65. (The number of women 65 and older who remained in the workforce has always been small, rising from 9.7 percent in 1950 to 10.6 percent in 2003.) Then came a perfect storm of factors in the last decade that has encouraged more older men -- and women -- to stay on the job, with workforce participation in 2010 rising to 22.1 percent among men older than 64 and 13.8 percent among women of the same age.  "The rise in labor force participation is interesting as both a potentially long-running trend, and because we saw that during the recession that it was the older workers whose employment share actually rose. They were the only age group to have their employment share rise," says Loraine West, chief of the Eurasia branch of the population division of the Census Bureau and an author of the report.Here are some of the issues — benign and otherwise — that the study suggests are pushing people to work longer. Social Security is the No. 1 source of income for everyone older than 64, with 86.3 percent receiving it. About 52 percent also have income from savings and nearly 40 percent get some pension or other kind of income from their former employers. More than 26 percent also rely on income from work. Expect that percentage to rise. "We haven't seen projections for the future, but researchers had already identified a rising trend in later retirements prior to the recession," West says. Will you ever retire? FREE AppDownload
Google deleted the listing of a BBC blog post documenting the ousting of former Merrill Lynch CEO Stan O'Neal, and the writer, BBC economics editor Robert Peston, is none-too-pleased. It's all because a European upheld one man's "right to be forgotten." Mario Coteja Gonzalez sued Google because he wanted the 1998 auction of his foreclosed home taken down citing it as "inadequate, irrelevant or no longer relevant". A few days ago, he won his suit. Now — at question here is whether or not the firing of a CEO of a major international company could ever be called "irrelevant." Peston, for one, does not think it can. In another post for the BBC he writes: Most people would argue that it is highly relevant for the track record, good or bad, of a business leader to remain on the public record - especially someone widely seen as having played an important role in the worst financial crisis in living memory (Merrill went to the brink of collapse the following year, and was rescued by Bank of America)... So there is an argument that in removing the blog, Google is confirming the fears of many in the industry that the "right to be forgotten" will be abused to curb freedom of expression and to suppress legitimate journalism that is in the public interest. To be fair to Google, it opposed the European court ruling. But its implementation of it looks odd, perhaps clumsy. Peston went on to say that Google has received around 5,000 requests for articles to be taken down, and that the BBC has reached out to Google.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Scott Heavey/AELTC/PoolRafael Nadal of Spain attends a news conference after being defeated by Nick Kyrgios of Australia in their men's singles tennis match at the Wimbledon Tennis Championships.Stocks went nowhere on the last full trading ahead of the holiday-shortened week, but by virtue of closing with gains, the Dow and S&amp;P 500 each made new all-time closing highs. First, the scoreboard And now, the top stories of the day: 1) ADP said private payrolls climbed 281,000, the biggest increase since November 2012. Economists were expected additions of 205,000, up from May's gain of 179,000. Following the report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro said, "In one line: Looks great but ADP's predictive powers are very limited." Shepherdson added that, "Still, this is a bigger rebound than we expected. It does not change our payroll forecast, though, which remains at a decent but unspectacular 200K. We worry that the seasonal factors in the official data — which are entirely separate from those used by ADP — were too generous in June last year and will now correct. Any hit will be temporary, though; the labor market is improving steadily despite the short-term noise." Following the report, Chris Rupkey at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi said, "The economy has big momentum going for it now as uncertainty over the outlook diminishes." 2) U.S. factory orders for May fell 0.5%, worse than expectations for a decline of 0.3%. This was the final economic data report before the jobs report, set for release at 8:30 am EST tomorrow morning. At the same time as the jobs report, we'll also get weekly initial jobless claims and the balance of trade report for May.  3) Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen spoke in front of the IMF in Washington, and said she sees, "pockets of increased risk-taking across the financial system." Among other things, BI's Rob Wile noted that Yellen said, "credit levels do not suggest borrowers are taking on excessive debt, and that improved capital and liquidity positions at lending institutions should ensure resilience against potential losses due to their exposures." Yellen also said that monetary policy faces limitations as a tool used to promote financial stability.  4) In corporate news, Tyson Foods and Hillshire Brands reached a definitive merger agreement under which Tyson will acquire Hillshire for $8.55 billion, or $63 per share. The agreement also includes Tyson paying $163 million to Pinnacle Foods as part of that company's dissolved merger agreement with Hillshire. 5) GoPro lost more than 12%, the first negative day for the wearable camera maker since its debut last Thursday. The tumble in GoPro comes after yesterday the stock traded above $48, or more than double its $24 IPO price. Karl Loomes, a market analyst with SunGard's Astec Analytics, said data showed that short sellers are beginning to circle GoPro. Loomes noted that most all of the shares available for borrow to be shorted have been spoken for.  6) On Friday, the government auctioned off 30,000 Bitcoins, which were all purchased by legendary VC investor Tim Draper. At current Bitcoin prices of around $640, Draper's haul is worth about $19 million.  7) A new research note from Morgan Stanley's Adam Jonas said that despite its massive recalls, General Motors sales have been increasing because, Parker writes, dealers flooded with customers bringing in recalled cars have lead to new sales when there normally wouldn't be.  Don't Miss: This Man Says He's Building The 'Healthcare Internet' And He's Started A Huge Controversy On Wall Street » FREE AppDownload
JP Morgan Asset ManagementThe stock market continues to tick to fresh all-time highs as volatility remains subdued, M&amp;A activity picks up, and interest rates remain at historic lows thanks to Fed Chair Janet Yellen. Despite the recent disappointing GDP report, the U.S. is showing steady signs of recovery. Internationally, conflict in Iraq have investors concerned about oil prices. There is a lot for investors to think about. To help you navigate it all, J.P Morgan's Q3 Guide to the Markets is here. Compiled by David Kelly and the J.P Morgan Funds market strategy team, the full 71-slide presentations contains comprehensive overviews of equities, the economy, fixed income, and various international asset classes. Note: Thanks to J.P. Morgan Asset Management for giving us permission to feature this presentation.  
Kevin C. Cox/Getty ImagesU.S. men's national soccer team goalkeeper Tim Howard can save 16 shots on goal and, according to Twitter memes, many other things that went wrong in world history. But even he might not be able to save the Export-Import Bank, according to Jared Bernstein, the former chief economist to U.S. Vice President Joe Biden and now a senior fellow at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. Bernstein has a new post Wednesday on the fate of the bank, which is being hotly debated among members of Congress, the Obama administration, and the business community. The bank provides direct loans, guarantees, and credit insurance to aid foreign purchasers in buying American-made goods. Its charter expires at the end of September, unless Congress acts to renew it.Bernstein perceives support for the bank dwindling, while opponents have gained new momentum after the stunning Republican primary loss of House Majority Eric Cantor to unknown Tea Party insurgent Dave Brat. From Bernstein's piece: Brat had a point when he connected Cantor to Wall St., and Boeing is clearly dependent on the Ex-Im Bank. Brat and the Tea Party are by no means alone in their opposition to the bank’s reauthorization. From what I’ve seen in recent days, punditry opposition from left, right, and center is outpacing support by a wide margin. At this point, I’m not sure if even Tim Howard could save the bank. Political analysts, however, are split on Bernstein's doomsday predictions. Greg Valliere, the chief political strategist at Potomac Research Group, thinks there's a 60% chance the bank is saved. Chris Krueger, an analyst with Guggenheim Securities, says there's a 60% chance of a short-term extension.  The debate over reauthorizing the bank's charter has produced strange alliances. President Barack Obama and Bernstein's former boss, Democratic congressional leadership, Texas Gov. Rick Perry, and the Republican establishment-friendly Chamber of Commerce all support the bank's charter being reauthorized. Many of the House's more conservative members, along with some liberal Democratic lawmakers, oppose reauthorization. Over the last two years, the bank has come under increasingly intense scrutiny because opponents have latched on to the cause the bank provides "corporate welfare." Supporters of the bank say the support it provides are crucial for thousands of businesses both big and small. Bernstein, for one, sympathizes with both sets of arguments. In the end, he says it might be best for the U.S. to carefully wean off support from the bank, rather than experiment with full withdrawal.  "I join the opposition in their major critiques: it’s not clear why Boeing, GE, and other large American exporters need the subsidy, nor why rich countries need the USG to backstop their loans," he wrote. "But assertion is not proof, and it would be better to test the international credit waters rather than do an experiment with full withdrawal, especially at a time when we very much need the labor demand generated by exports–and remember, we’re talking manufactured goods. Phase-out is also a better strategy given the other main defense of the bank, which is that as long as our competitors for international sales keep their similar credit-providing institutions up and running, we’re at a disadvantage if we drop out of this market.  As one critic wrote, that’s not a principled defense, but I think it’s a pragmatic one." FREE AppDownload
The Great Manipulator.The Internet found something new to be outraged about last week, when it was revealed that a Facebook product test might have temporarily affected the way some of its users felt. This test, one of many the company conducts routinely with the aim of improving its product, involved 700,000 English-speaking Facebook users for a week in 2012. The test was designed to test a prevailing "meme" at the time: The hypothesis that the upbeat tone of the content people shared and saw on Facebook, all those "likes" and "friends" and happy group photos, might be causing people in the real world to be depressed—in the same way, presumably, that Photoshopped cover models are thought to make real people insecure and unhappy about their normality. Facebook's data scientists designed a clever way to test this theory. They set up a word filter to evaluate all the posts that were eligible to be placed in each user's News Feed and then they tweaked the selection algorithm so that some users got slightly more "positive" content and others got slightly more "negative" content. Then the scientists used the word filter to compare the posts of users who saw more "positive" content with those who saw more "negative" content. The results of the test suggested that the "meme" of the moment was wrong. Rather than being depressed that their lives didn't measure up to those of the happy people on Facebook, the users who saw slightly more positive content actually posted slightly more positive status updates. The users who saw slightly more negative content, meanwhile, posted slightly more negative updates.  In other words, far from getting depressed by the happiness portrayed on Facebook, people seemed to find the upbeat mood modestly infectious. And vice versa. This information was helpful to Facebook in deciding what to do (and not do) to its product. For understandable reasons, the company did not want its product to make people depressed (what company does?). And if Facebook's News Feed algorithm was selecting content that made people depressed, as the prevailing meme was suggesting, then Facebook wanted to know that.  But the results of the test suggested that the theory was wrong. So, according to one person familiar with the situation, Facebook did not change its product in response to the test. But that didn't stop a large number of people from exploding in indignation when they heard about the test. Facebook is intentionally manipulating our emotions, these people howled. Facebook is using us as unwitting guinea pigs! Facebook is abusing its users' trust! And so on. Even now, almost a week after news broke, people are still acting as though Facebook is some sort of digital-age Mengele, conducting evil, harmful experiments on millions of unwilling human test-subjects. Come on. This was a product test. Companies conduct product tests all the time. And these product tests are often designed to evaluate the emotions of those who use the products. Yes, it's true that many such product tests are conducted via focus groups or test screenings or other venues in which people know they are participating in a product test. But many others are not. When a direct-mail company is testing messages, for example, it doesn't tell you it's conducting a test. When politicians test talking points, they don't tell you they're testing them. Same for companies that test different advertisements or promotions and then compares response rates.  What's more, in the digital realm, companies like Facebook conduct product tests on "unwitting" participants—their users—almost every day. When, as a Google executive, Marissa Mayer famously tested 41 shades of blue to see which shade prompted the highest user response rate, she was conducting a product test. Google's users didn't know they were being used as test subjects. Marissa Mayer didn't ask their permission to test how they felt about each particular blue. She just tested them. On the advertising side, moreover, Google tests millions of advertisements every day.  Google presents you, its users, with different ad placements and wordings and pictures, until it figures out which ads you are most likely to respond to. Google, in other words, tests what you see and do all day long, all without your knowing. And so do Amazon and dozens of other digital companies with the technology resources necessary to continually A/B test with the aim of improving their products. But Facebook was trying to manipulate its users' emotions!, people still protest. Actually, Facebook wasn't trying to do that. Facebook was trying to see whether a prevailing theory about the impact of Facebook's product on emotions was correct or not. And it turned out it wasn't. In the process, Facebook may—may—have temporarily, slightly influenced the emotions of some of its users. But it's important to note just how slight this possible influence was. Facebook's study, a person familiar with the situation says, found that users whose News Feeds were set to include modestly more "positive" content than the average user's made modestly more "positive" comments than average—to the tune of one (1) extra positive word in every thousand (1,000) words. Similarly, users whose News Feeds were set to include modestly more "negative" content than average were found to write one (1) extra negative word per thousand (1,000) words than the average. That's not exactly massive emotional influence. But Facebook can manipulate our emotions, the indignant netizens still shout. Facebook can shape our thoughts. Facebook can affect elections!  Facebook is way too powerful, in other words.  Facebook is certainly powerful.  And, in the hands of the wrong people, Facebook could certainly be used as a tool for mass-market mind control. But when it comes to concerns about that — about companies that have the power to manipulate emotions, shape thoughts, and affect elections — there are probably other, fatter targets to worry about. Such as television networks. SEE ALSO: Facebook Reacts: "We Never Meant To Upset You" FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Wendy HarmanI’m not a typical “Hamptons Guy”, per se, but I’ve definitely spent my fair share of time out there, being both a native Long Islander and a career Wall Streeter for as long as I have – it’s been fairly unavoidable. This weekend I’ll be visiting my dad at his house in Quogue and then hitting a big-time clambake at a beachfront manse in East Hampton. I’m excited for both, I must confess. Nicholas Colas, chief strategist at ConvergEx in New York, has an entertaining note out this morning using the Hamptons as a barometer for Wall Street confidence… The Hamptons are, in fact, the most perfect litmus test of New York/Wall Street financial confidence available.  This has been true since the Long Island Rail Road built the Montauk branch in the 1870s.  That development – along with electrification of the line in the 1920s – made the 90 mile trip possible for affluent-but-not-crazy-rich New York families, allowing them to enjoy the longest sand beach on the eastern seaboard just like the Vanderbilts and DuPonts. The Long Island Expressway didn’t make its way to Exit 70/71 until the 1960s; it was a very long drive indeed before that.  Add a few golf courses over the years (Maidstone, Shinnecock and National), one gorgeous lawn tennis club (Meadow), and a posh social registry (the Blue Book) and you have a summer recipe for wealthy New Yorkers that remains unchanged from the 1920s. On the surface, the upcoming July 4th weekend in the Hamptons has all the earmarks of a very confident New York/Wall Street community and we trot into the back half of 2014. Just a few data points here: So, you get the idea – the transient community has a few bucks to throw around.  Josh here – My advice to for the young money: Get your Gatsby on, kids. For next summer may not be as carefree and cheery as this one is. Source: “Nicholas Colas, chief market strategist at ConvergEx Group, a global brokerage company based in New York.” FREE AppDownload
When HP officially announced it had settled three shareholders' lawsuits over its acquisition of software firm Autonomy, its press release didn't mention the details, like how much it was going to pay. HP did confirm that the shareholders agreed to drop all claims against HP's executives and board members, including CEO Meg Whitman. HP also said the deal required the shareholders to assist with any potential legal actions it pursues against former officials from Autonomy.  Shareholders had accused HP of not doing enough to investigate potential weaknesses in Autonomy's business, the Wall Street Journal reported. For its part, HP said Autonomy misrepresented itself and tricked HP into paying $11 billion for it. (That's likely why HP may be pursuing legal claims against former Autonomy officials.) While we don't know how much HP paid to settle the shareholder litigation, court filings dug up by GigaOm's Barb Darrow revealed an interesting bit of information. HP has turned around and hired the shareholders' lawyers directly and will pay them a percentage of money it is awarded in any legal actions it files against ex-Autonomy officials. HP agreed to pay the shareholders' lawyers a monthly retainer of $562,500 per month for 32 months worth of work, so $18 million for that. Plus they can get up to another $30 million of whatever money HP "recovers" from former Autonomy execs. The shareholders' lawyers will get 10% of up to $100 million and 25% of anything over $100 million, capped at $30 million. HP also agreed to pay $25,000 to one shareholder involved in the suits, the Financial Times reports.  The agreement offers some interesting insight into the business of shareholder lawsuits, which are extremely common with any M&amp;A deal valued at over $100 million. The majority of them settled, according to the Harvard Law School. To recap the lawsuit against Autonomy: HP paid $11 billion for Autonomy. Less than a year later, HP wrote off $8.8 billion and alleged that Autonomy had improperly inflated its revenues and margins, to the tune of $5 billion. Former Autonomy CEO Michael Lynch has consistently and vehemently denied all wrongdoing and has said that HP's own mismanagement of Autonomy after the acquisition caused the problems.  He calls this latest settlement a "smear campaign" and says he hopes "HP will finally give a full explanation.” Here's the bit in the court filing that talks about HP hiring the shareholders' lawyers: “In recognition of the substantial benefits conferred upon HP, HP, by and through its Independent Committee, has entered into an engagement letter with the Settling Plaintiffs’ Counsel that provides for a fixed fee and fee contingent upon the amount recovered by HP. More particularly, in addition to a fixed monthly retainer in the amount of $562,500 for 32 months, Settling Plaintiffs’ Counsel will be eligible to receive a contingent fee equal to 10% of the amount recovered by HP up to $100 million, and 25% of any amount in excess of $100 million, up to a maximum contingent amount of $30 million. HP had no further comment. FREE AppDownload
Woodrow Wilson High School; Bill Pugliano/GettyWarren Buffett: young and old.It can be easy to see the world's most powerful and influential people as occupying a sphere far removed from the rest us.  But many of the one-percent started off with conventional first jobs. Goldman Sachs' CEO Lloyd Blankfein, for example, grew up in the projects and made extra money at a concession stand in Yankee Stadium. Warren Buffett built his savings as a kid by delivering newspapers. And before she found her calling in media, Oprah Winfrey worked at a corner store. We'll take a look at 15 highly successful people who made the most of, but weren't defined by, a modest first job. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidSince 2010, a group of women have been suing Goldman Sachs for discrimination during their time as employees there. A complaint filed by Cristina Chen-Oster, Shana Orlich, and Lisa Parisi back in 2010 alleges that their male peers were paid up to 100% more than they were, experienced sexual harassment, and were forced to perform menial tasks like making photo copies and answering phone calls. On Tuesday, they filed with the Court to turn their case into a class action suit. “This is a normal and anticipated procedural step for any proposed class action lawsuit and does not change the case’s lack of merit," said David Wells, a spokesperson for Goldman Sachs. It doesn't mean Goldman did anything wrong necessarily, it just means that, if U.S. District Judge Analisa Torres decides to grant class certification, any women who worked at Goldman during the statute of limitations of the case and feel they experienced this same treatment could jump in and make this very complicated for Goldman. Last year, the Court forced the bank to cough up all of its gender-bias complaints from female employees. A source close to the situation told Business Insider that Goldman plans to vigorously defend its position in the coming weeks, challenging the plaintiffs on their allegations that the bank's promotion, pay and performance review practices favor men. Here's what kind of behavior the Court will be looking for in order to grant class-action certification: Pretty heavy stuff. If the Judge allows this case to become a class action, there could be stories like these spilling all over the place. That's the last thing Goldman wants. Check out the full complaint below:   Chen-Oster et al v. Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co. et al by Linette Lopez  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Joshua Lott GM's recall 2014 vehicle count now tops 28 million, and investors aren't breaking a sweat.  On Tuesday, GM stunned everyone by reporting a 1% increase in U.S. vehicle sales. Analysts were forecasting a 6% drop. In a new note, Morgan Stanley's Adam Jonas offers a potential explanation for why: The recalls are leading to new sales during a time when there usually aren't many. GM is taking control of its US commercial position, showing real market share resiliency despite the very negative PR surrounding the recall. This is thanks to dealers flooded with hundreds of thousands (ultimately untold millions) of customers they would have never normally seen at this part of the cycle who are coming in with recall slips. Additionally, GM is benefiting from Ford's F-150 changeover and its pre-production run out. We think this creates ideal conditions to support GM's stock price through the summer or well into the fall.  Jonas also recently discussed another unusual factor that has pushed industry-wide receipts to record levels: Dealers are back-loading contracts, spreading out the terms of contracts over unusually long periods of time in order to record a sale. This has occurred in part thanks to loosening credit conditions. Jonas now wonders whether we are actually seeing a sell signal. "17mm is one of the classic sell signals we've been waiting for this cycle," he said referencing the annualized pace of vehicle sales, or SAAR. "It's too early to call the top (which we see at 18m or more by 2017), but it's just as much as sell signal as 9mm SAAR was a buy signal in early '09.  GM shares were up 0.5% Wednesday. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Akhtar SoomroWall Street is asleep. Jonathan Krinsky, chief market technician at MKM Partners, has again alerted us to the complete lack of action in the market today.  About two weeks ago, Krinsky sent us a table showing how historically tight the daily trading range was on June 20 and June 23. Those sessions had among the five tightest daily trading ranges since 1994.  Wednesday's table from Krinsky adds 12 years, and as of about 12:30 p.m. EST, Krinsky notes, the S&amp;P 500 is trading in its fourth-narrowest range since 1982. MKM Partners It shouldn't come as a complete surprise that the action is so muted, however. It is a shortened holiday week, and many market participants could be away. We also get the jobs report tomorrow morning, and people might be reluctant to do too much maneuvering ahead of the data. Those circumstances notwithstanding, however, we've noted time and again how little action there has been on Wall Street.  So, you're not just imagining things: It's actually dead out there today. FREE AppDownload
Brookfield PlaceHudson Eats, a new food court in New York’s Financial District, is set to take over lower Manhattan’s lunch hour. The 35,000-square-foot food court is part of a $250 million renovation at Brookfield Place — a dining, retail, and office complex that was formerly the World Financial Center. Hudson Eats is located on the second floor of the mall, mere blocks from the 9/11 Memorial — an ideal location for both office workers and tourists. The space is huge, with 600 seats and a nearby atrium. And it's beautiful, with superb views of the skyline and Hudson River, tall windows, white marble finishes, and leather booths. But what makes Hudson Eats truly exciting is the food: The food court houses a dozen casual eateries, including New York favorites like Black Seed Bagel, Chop't, Dig Inn, Dos Toros, Little Muenster, Mighty Quinn's Barbecue, Num Pang, Olives, Skinny Pizza, Sprinkles Cupcakes, Tartinery, and Umami Burger. Blue Ribbon Sushi and Northern Tiger will open in the fall. Hudson Eats has set itself up as the perfect place for businessmen, locals, and tourists to grab a quick and delicious lunch. With all the excitement surrounding the Financial District’s latest hub, we had to try it for ourselves.
Flickr/Tambako The JaguarThe bears are circling GoPro.  Short sellers, who bet on price declines, have noticed GoPro's huge run up since its public debut on June 26, and after a nearly 100% gain, traders are starting to bet the shares will fall in price. Near noon in New York, shares of the wearable camera company were down about 9%. To sell a stock short, an investor must borrow the shares with the goal of reselling them at a lower price. Not all of the "float," or the outstanding shares of a company that can be traded, are eligible for borrow. Karl Loomes, a market analyst with SunGard's Astec Analytics, says his data shows nearly all of the available borrow for GoPro has been spoken for. Loomis: "Although still early days, data from SunGard's Astec Analytics shows the cost of borrowing GoPro shares — borrowing being the prerequisite of short selling them — has immediately become one of the highest on our system. Likewise the utilization level, i.e. the percentage of shares that are available on loan actually being borrowed, is near 100% — again one of the highest on our system. Together both these figures suggest borrowers are snapping up all the available GoPro shares they can, and are willing to pay a high price to do so." In each of its first four days as a public company, GoPro shares rallied sharply, and during Tuesday's trading session shares at one point traded north of $48, more than double where the company's IPO priced. "It wouldn't surprise me if this is a bet against the immediate increase in share price, and not necessarily a bet against the company," Loomes said in a phone interview with Business Insider. Loomes added that short-sellers often don't have the weight to move a stock the way some people think, and that today's weakness in GoPro probably has more to do with the run higher than any specific bets against the stock. As with any newly issued stock — or any stock that doubles in price over just four trading days — volatility is to be expected. Even in a big year for IPOs, GoPro's early performance was notable, and after getting the attention of buyers willing to bid the stock higher, it seems the other side of that trade is getting organized.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jonathan ErnstFamilies of recall crash victims prior to Barra's testimonyDespite the unfavorable press following an ongoing series of recalls, experts and investors agree that General Motors is far from the end of the road. GM announced this week that it would recall an additional 8.4 million vehicles in North America, running its tally up to more than 28 million cars recalled in the last year. For the latest round of recalls, the automaker cited problems stemming from unintended ignition key rotation to faulty electrics inside the cabin and under the hood. The scale and magnitude of GM's recalls are simply unprecedented. At no time in recent history has any major automaker in the United States ever recalled so many cars for so many different types of defects. As investigators and CEO Mary Barra delve deeper into GM's history, more and more of the company's past sins have come to light. These revelations of past missteps, along with repeated recall announcements, could severely erode both consumer and investor confidence in the company, said Professor John Allan James, Chairman Emeritus of the Center for Global Governance, Reporting, and Regulation at Pace University's Lubin School of Business.  "This isn't the last of it. Odds are there will be more recalls," James told Business Insider. "GM's management have repeatedly shown themselves to the world to be screwups. They knew about the risk for years and yet model after model, year after year, they put out the same cars with the same defective part."  While the company could indeed suffer in the long run, short-term metrics indicate that the recalls have not impacted the bottom line. With GM shares trading around 3% higher level than just before its latest recall, the market has responded in a surprisingly blasé manner to the company's attempt to rectify its quality control standards. Industry experts and car buyers share this sentiment. Kelley Blue Book senior analyst Karl Brauer said that "all of KBB's metrics indicate that the recalls have had little to no effect on GM sales." KBB's measurements mesh with the latest sales figures, which actually grew in June. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Yahoo Finance Financially, the recall will not be the kind of black hole for the company that some had initially projected. Based on the latest figures from UBS, the total cost of the recall repairs will amount to roughly $2.5 billion for a company that is estimated to generate around $4.7 billion in profits this year.  GM, it appears, has emerged relatively unscathed, especially when compared to past scandals like Toyota's unintended acceleration recall. When Toyota recalled more than 10 million cars for issues related to unintended acceleration, the company's sales plummeted and its corporate leadership was axed. But unintended acceleration is particularly terrifying for consumers. When such a failure occurs, a car's throttle fails to react to driver inputs, effectively transforming a family sedan into a runaway train. A tragic 911 call that captured a family's last moments in their runaway Toyota further damaged the company's image. GM's faulty ignition systems have been connected to fatal accidents, but are overall less dangerous. "The engine shut-off that results from the failure is perfectly manageable in most situations," said KBB's Brauer.   General Motors2008 Chevrolet Cobalt Toyota's recall also affected popular models, like the Prius and Camry, which were on sale in dealerships. GM's recall, on the other hand, consists mostly of nameplates that have either been discontinued or replaced by new models. As a result, GM dealers are less affected by the recall when selling new cars. Recall aside, GM has actually made great strides in improving the design, quality and engineering of its new cars, which has helped buyers forget about the recalled vehicles, said Tom Mutchler, senior automotive engineer at Consumer Reports. In terms of corporate response, Toyota's management team was seen as culpable for the company's failures. Mary Barra and her team at GM are perceived differently. Much of GM's wrongdoing occurred before the Barra administration. Industry insiders like Brauer and Mutchler said they appreciate Barra's candor with respect to her company's past failings, and see her as a positive figure trying to a fix a broken system.  It remains to be seen how GM's latest round of recalls affects the company. Even Brauer conceded that expanding the recall from 20 to 28 million cars could be a tipping point for buyer sentiment. But Mutchler said he believed that like Toyota, GM would continue to improve its vehicles, and that consumers would eventually put this latest scandal out of their collective consciousness. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsArchimedesMathematics is an increasingly central part of our world and an immensely fascinating realm of thought. But long before the development of the math that gave us computers, quantum mechanics, and GPS satellites, generations of brilliant minds — spanning from the ancient Greeks through the eighteenth century — built up the basic mathematical ideas and tools that sit at the foundation of our understanding of math and its relationship to the world. Here are 12 of the most brilliant of those minds and some of their contributions to the great chain of mathematics. FREE AppDownload
Liau Chung-ren/ReutersA policeman stands guard in front of a group supporting China's recent white paper over the control of Hong Kong, during a mass protest demanding universal suffrage in Hong Kong July 1, 2014.Editor's note: Following giant protests in Hong Kong, people on Quora are discusing what will happen in Hong Kong if the CCP continues to interfere with their autonomy. We've published the full answer from Joseph Wang, Chief Scientist at Bitquant Research in Hong Kong, below. Nothing. People that are annoyed are already protesting. People that aren't annoyed don't care. The term "Hong Kong autonomy" means different things to different people.  From academics and political activists, it means moving HK to a more democratic system where people can use the political system to make some basic changes to the economic system of HK.For the business community, "autonomy" means the right to make money, and to make HK a place where rich people run things, and people can keep making money.In 1997, the rich people and the political activists were both worried about the the CCP.  The tycoons were worried that the CCP would make HK socialist and take their money.  The political activists were worried that the CCP would come in and stomp on freedom of speech.The political situation is very different today.  It turns out that the CCP has turned capitalist, and the rich people in Hong Kong are now allied with the CCP since the CCP lets them make a ton of money in the Mainland and has set things up so that they can make tons of money in Hong Kong.  "Hong Kong people rule Hong Kong" to them means "rich HK people rule HK" and that's the system that is there, and the system that they would like to keep.Needless to say, the Occupy Central people are not happy with this.My guess is that the Occupy Central people will lose this fight.  Aside from the fact that rich HK people have enough allies in the middle class to make Occupy Central an annoyance, there is the issue that the Occupy movement has failed to be politically relevant anywhere else in the world, and there is no reason to think HK will be their first successful place.  The are making the same mistakes they are making everywhere else, and HK rich people are using the same tactics that they've used elsewhere against Occupy.This isn't a fight between Hong Kong and the CCP. It's a fight between the Occupy movement and HK tycoons.  And the HK tycoons are solidly on the side of the CCP.  As long as the CCP guarantees *their* version of HK autonomy (i.e. rich HK people rule HK), they'll work with each other.  Once you get the rich people on the side of the CCP, the upper middle class will get pulled along.  The rich give the poor enough so that they won't revolt.The more the Occupy movement does what it is doing, the closer the relationship between HK tycoons and the CCP will be.  Both of them want a system in which people have free speech, because you will be able to scream all you want, but it won't matter because they control the really important decisions.  You'll exhaust yourself screaming, and once you run out of energy, they'll make the decisions that they always wanted to.Remember the last scene from Animal Farm in which the rich pigs and the humans look the same. One other dynamic is that the Occupy tends to be stronger in college campuses, but the fraction of HK people that go to college is much smaller in most other societies.  Also, in the US, newspapers like the New York Times and the Washington Post have a lot of "opinion power" in that what the newspapers say matters a lot.  With the right scandal, the press can make or break a politician or business person.Even though HK has free speech, the newspapers don't really have that much power.  They can scream and scream and no one that matters really cares. FREE AppDownload
APBritish artist Tracey Emin 1998 artpiece, entitled 'My Bed' on display, at an auction house exhibition space in central London, Friday, June 27, 2014.Tracey Emin's controversial My Bed modern artwork has sold at auction for £2.2 million. The 1998 work, which features an unmade bed and a littered floor including empty vodka bottles, cigarette butts and discarded condoms, went under the hammer at Christie's in London tonight. The 1999 Turner Prize shortlisted work had been put up for sale by millionaire art collector Charles Saatchi, with a guide price of between £800,000 and £1.2 million. Emin was in the packed auction room as the work was sold, to applause from the crowd. Saatchi, who paid £150,000 in 2000 for My Bed, one of the key works of the Young British Artist movement, sold it to support the work of the Saatchi Gallery Foundation. Other works sold in the Post War and Contemporary Art Evening Auction included Francis Bacon's Study For Head Of Lucian Freud, which sold for a hammer price of £10.2 million. Christies said that with buyer's premium My Bed went for £2,546,500, which is a world record for the Margate artist at auction. Christie's said My Bed was bought by an anonymous bidder. Emin, 50, who went from rebel to establishment when she was made a CBE in the New Year Honours in 2012, grinned as she left the auction after her piece, which was Lot 19, was sold. She first made an impression on the wider public outside the art world in 1997 with a drunken appearance on a television discussion show about the Turner Prize which ended with her pulling her microphone off and telling the audience "I've had a really good night out". Two years later, she was shortlisted for the prize and exhibited My Bed at the Tate Gallery. It divided the critics but began the process of making her one of the country's most famous living artists. Speaking at Christie's in central London last week ahead of the sale she said she still stands by her work which "changed people's perceptions of art". My Bed was on display in the foyer at Christie's during the sale. Francis Outred, head of post war contemporary art for the auctioneers, said the "iconic work of British art from the 1990s" quadrupled her previous world record, achieving £2.546 million. Her previous best was £481,000. Jussi Pylkkanen, the auctioneer and president of Christie's Europe, added: "Tracey is very, very happy. "I just caught Tracey at the Serpentine party, I just called her to see how she felt about things and she said she was absolutely delighted. "She was very nervous going into the sale. "Thanks everyone for supporting the sale of that object, it meant a huge amount to her. "People wondered why she was so engaged in the process of selling that object but for her that was her biography, that was a statement, that was a self portrait. "It is quite unusual actually to have an artist so involved in their own works that for them it is a sort of step into the next stage of their lives. "For Tracey seeing that here at the top of the stairs... it was incredibly meaningful." Emin's work was one of four pieces which achieved a world record at the auction, whose 75 lots sold for a total of £99.4 million. Bacon's Lucian Freud work accounted for more than a tenth of that, selling for £11.5 million including buyer's premium. This article originally appeared at The Daily Telegraph .  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jonathan Ernst Fed Chair Janet Yellen says she sees "pockets of increased risk-taking across the financial system," but there is not yet a major threat. Yellen is speaking at an inaugural central banking lecture at the IMF in Washington. Yellen notes credit levels do not suggest borrowers are taking on excessive debt, and that improved capital and liquidity positions at lending institutions should ensure resilience against potential losses due to their exposures. But even if those risks were to accelerate, monetary policy should won't be subject to financial stability concerns — because it can't do that much to address it in the first place, she says.  "Monetary policy faces significant limitations as a tool to promote financial stability," she said in prepared remarks released by the Fed.  "It is not uncommon to hear it suggested that the crisis could have been prevented or significantly mitigated by substantially tighter monetary policy in the mid-2000s. At the very least, however, such an approach would have been insufficient to address the full range of critical vulnerabilities." Namely, the significant tightening required to have slowed housing gains would have resulted in large increases in unemployment she says, citing recent research.  Still, she acknolwedged that an acceleration of these trends may warrent further action.   In her most recent press conference, Yellen said low volatility like what investors are seeing now can lead to financial instability in the longer term. FULL TEXT: Monetary Policy and Financial Stability It is an honor to deliver the inaugural Michel Camdessus Central Banking Lecture. Michel Camdessus served with distinction as governor of the Banque de France and was one of the longest-serving managing directors of the International Monetary Fund (IMF). In these roles, he was well aware of the challenges central banks face in their pursuit of price stability and full employment, and of the interconnections between macroeconomic stability and financial stability. Those interconnections were apparent in the Latin American debt crisis, the Mexican peso crisis, and the East Asian financial crisis, to which the IMF responded under Camdessus's leadership. These episodes took place in emerging market economies, but since then, the global financial crisis and, more recently, the euro crisis have reminded us that no economy is immune from financial instability and the adverse effects on employment, economic activity, and price stability that financial crises cause. The recent crises have appropriately increased the focus on financial stability at central banks around the world. At the Federal Reserve, we have devoted substantially increased resources to monitoring financial stability and have refocused our regulatory and supervisory efforts to limit the buildup of systemic risk. There have also been calls, from some quarters, for a fundamental reconsideration of the goals and strategy of monetary policy. Today I will focus on a key question spurred by this debate: How should monetary and other policymakers balance macroprudential approaches and monetary policy in the pursuit of financial stability? In my remarks, I will argue that monetary policy faces significant limitations as a tool to promote financial stability: Its effects on financial vulnerabilities, such as excessive leverage and maturity transformation, are not well understood and are less direct than a regulatory or supervisory approach; in addition, efforts to promote financial stability through adjustments in interest rates would increase the volatility of inflation and employment. As a result, I believe a macroprudential approach to supervision and regulation needs to play the primary role. Such an approach should focus on "through the cycle" standards that increase the resilience of the financial system to adverse shocks and on efforts to ensure that the regulatory umbrella will cover previously uncovered systemically important institutions and activities. These efforts should be complemented by the use of countercyclical macroprudential tools, a few of which I will describe. But experience with such tools remains limited, and we have much to learn to use these measures effectively. I am also mindful of the potential for low interest rates to heighten the incentives of financial market participants to reach for yield and take on risk, and of the limits of macroprudential measures to address these and other financial stability concerns. Accordingly, there may be times when an adjustment in monetary policy may be appropriate to ameliorate emerging risks to financial stability. Because of this possibility, and because transparency enhances the effectiveness of monetary policy, it is crucial that policymakers communicate their views clearly on the risks to financial stability and how such risks influence the appropriate monetary policy stance. I will conclude by briefly laying out how financial stability concerns affect my current assessment of the appropriate stance of monetary policy. Balancing Financial Stability with Price Stability: Lessons from the Recent PastWhen considering the connections between financial stability, price stability, and full employment, the discussion often focuses on the potential for conflicts among these objectives. Such situations are important, since it is only when conflicts arise that policymakers need to weigh the tradeoffs among multiple objectives. But it is important to note that, in many ways, the pursuit of financial stability is complementary to the goals of price stability and full employment. A smoothly operating financial system promotes the efficient allocation of saving and investment, facilitating economic growth and employment. A strong labor market contributes to healthy household and business balance sheets, thereby contributing to financial stability. And price stability contributes not only to the efficient allocation of resources in the real economy, but also to reduced uncertainty and efficient pricing in financial markets, which in turn supports financial stability. Despite these complementarities, monetary policy has powerful effects on risk taking. Indeed, the accommodative policy stance of recent years has supported the recovery, in part, by providing increased incentives for households and businesses to take on the risk of potentially productive investments. But such risk-taking can go too far, thereby contributing to fragility in the financial system.1 This possibility does not obviate the need for monetary policy to focus primarily on price stability and full employment--the costs to society in terms of deviations from price stability and full employment that would arise would likely be significant. I will highlight these potential costs and the clear need for a macroprudential policy approach by looking back at the vulnerabilities in the U.S. economy before the crisis. I will also discuss how these vulnerabilities might have been affected had the Federal Reserve tightened monetary policy in the mid-2000s to promote financial stability. Looking Back at the Mid-2000sAlthough it was not recognized at the time, risks to financial stability within the United States escalated to a dangerous level in the mid-2000s. During that period, policymakers--myself included--were aware that homes seemed overvalued by a number of sensible metrics and that home prices might decline, although there was disagreement about how likely such a decline was and how large it might be. What was not appreciated was how serious the fallout from such a decline would be for the financial sector and the macroeconomy. Policymakers failed to anticipate that the reversal of the house price bubble would trigger the most significant financial crisis in the United States since the Great Depression because that reversal interacted with critical vulnerabilities in the financial system and in government regulation. In the private sector, key vulnerabilities included high levels of leverage, excessive dependence on unstable short-term funding, weak underwriting of loans, deficiencies in risk measurement and risk management, and the use of exotic financial instruments that redistributed risk in nontransparent ways. In the public sector, vulnerabilities included gaps in the regulatory structure that allowed some systemically important financial institutions (SIFIs) and markets to escape comprehensive supervision, failures of supervisors to effectively use their existing powers, and insufficient attention to threats to the stability of the system as a whole. It is not uncommon to hear it suggested that the crisis could have been prevented or significantly mitigated by substantially tighter monetary policy in the mid-2000s. At the very least, however, such an approach would have been insufficient to address the full range of critical vulnerabilities I have just described. A tighter monetary policy would not have closed the gaps in the regulatory structure that allowed some SIFIs and markets to escape comprehensive supervision; a tighter monetary policy would not have shifted supervisory attention to a macroprudential perspective; and a tighter monetary policy would not have increased the transparency of exotic financial instruments or ameliorated deficiencies in risk measurement and risk management within the private sector. Some advocates of the view that a substantially tighter monetary policy may have helped prevent the crisis might acknowledge these points, but they might also argue that a tighter monetary policy could have limited the rise in house prices, the use of leverage within the private sector, and the excessive reliance on short-term funding, and that each of these channels would have contained--or perhaps even prevented--the worst effects of the crisis. A review of the empirical evidence suggests that the level of interest rates does influence house prices, leverage, and maturity transformation, but it is also clear that a tighter monetary policy would have been a very blunt tool: Substantially mitigating the emerging financial vulnerabilities through higher interest rates would have had sizable adverse effects in terms of higher unemployment. In particular, a range of studies conclude that tighter monetary policy during the mid-2000s might have contributed to a slower rate of house price appreciation. But the magnitude of this effect would likely have been modest relative to the substantial momentum in these prices over the period; hence, a very significant tightening, with large increases in unemployment, would have been necessary to halt the housing bubble.2 Such a slowing in the housing market might have constrained the rise in household leverage, as mortgage debt growth would have been slower. But the job losses and higher interest payments associated with higher interest rates would have directly weakened households' ability to repay previous debts, suggesting that a sizable tightening may have mitigated vulnerabilities in household balance sheets only modestly.3  Similar mixed results would have been likely with regard to the effects of tighter monetary policy on leverage and reliance on short-term financing within the financial sector. In particular, the evidence that low interest rates contribute to increased leverage and reliance on short-term funding points toward some ability of higher interest rates to lessen these vulnerabilities, but that evidence is typically consistent with a sizable range of quantitative effects or alternative views regarding the causal channels at work.4 Furthermore, vulnerabilities from excessive leverage and reliance on short-term funding in the financial sector grew rapidly through the middle of 2007, well after monetary policy had already tightened significantly relative to the accommodative policy stance of 2003 and early 2004. In my assessment, macroprudential policies, such as regulatory limits on leverage and short-term funding, as well as stronger underwriting standards, represent far more direct and likely more effective methods to address these vulnerabilities.5  Recent International ExperienceTurning to recent experience outside the United States, a number of foreign economies have seen rapidly rising real estate prices, which has raised financial stability concerns despite, in some cases, high unemployment and shortfalls in inflation relative to the central bank's inflation target.6 These developments have prompted debate on how to best balance the use of monetary policy and macroprudential tools in promoting financial stability. For example, Canada, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom have expressed a willingness to use monetary policy to address financial stability concerns in unusual circumstances, but they have similarly concluded that macroprudential policies should serve as the primary tool to pursue financial stability. In Canada, with inflation below target and output growth quite subdued, the Bank of Canada has kept the policy rate at or below 1 percent, but limits on mortgage lending were tightened in each of the years from 2009 through 2012, including changes in loan-to-value and debt-to-income caps, among other measures.7 In contrast, in Norway and Sweden, monetary policy decisions have been influenced somewhat by financial stability concerns, but the steps taken have been limited. In Norway, policymakers increased the policy interest rate in mid-2010 when they were facing escalating household debt despite inflation below target and output below capacity, in part as a way of "guarding against the risk of future imbalances."8 Similarly, Sweden's Riksbank held its policy rate "slightly higher than we would have done otherwise" because of financial stability concerns.9 In both cases, macroprudential actions were also either taken or under consideration. In reviewing these experiences, it seems clear that monetary policymakers have perceived significant hurdles to using sizable adjustments in monetary policy to contain financial stability risks. Some proponents of a larger monetary policy response to financial stability concerns might argue that these perceived hurdles have been overblown and that financial stability concerns should be elevated significantly in monetary policy discussions. A more balanced assessment, in my view, would be that increased focus on financial stability risks is appropriate in monetary policy discussions, but the potential cost, in terms of diminished macroeconomic performance, is likely to be too great to give financial stability risks a central role in monetary policy decisions, at least most of the time. If monetary policy is not to play a central role in addressing financial stability issues, this task must rely on macroprudential policies. In this regard, I would note that here, too, policymakers abroad have made important strides, and not just those in the advanced economies. Emerging market economies have in many ways been leaders in applying macroprudential policy tools, employing in recent years a variety of restrictions on real estate lending or other activities that were perceived to create vulnerabilities.10 Although it is probably too soon to draw clear conclusions, these experiences will help inform our understanding of these policies and their efficacy. Promoting Financial Stability through a Macroprudential ApproachIf macroprudential tools are to play the primary role in the pursuit of financial stability, questions remain on which macroprudential tools are likely to be most effective, what the limits of such tools may be, and when, because of such limits, it may be appropriate to adjust monetary policy to "get in the cracks" that persist in the macroprudential framework.11  In weighing these questions, I find it helpful to distinguish between tools that primarily build through-the-cycle resilience against adverse financial developments and those primarily intended to lean against financial excesses.12  Building ResilienceTools that build resilience aim to make the financial system better able to withstand unexpected adverse developments. For example, requirements to hold sufficient loss-absorbing capital make financial institutions more resilient in the face of unexpected losses. Such requirements take on a macroprudential dimension when they are most stringent for the largest, most systemically important firms, thereby minimizing the risk that losses at such firms will reverberate through the financial system. Resilience against runs can be enhanced both by stronger capital positions and requirements for sufficient liquidity buffers among the most interconnected firms. An effective resolution regime for SIFIs can also enhance resilience by better protecting the financial system from contagion in the event of a SIFI collapse. Further, the stability of the financial system can be enhanced through measures that address interconnectedness between financial firms, such as margin and central clearing requirements for derivatives transactions. Finally, a regulatory umbrella wide enough to cover previous gaps in the regulation and supervision of systemically important firms and markets can help prevent risks from migrating to areas where they are difficult to detect or address. In the United States, considerable progress has been made on each of these fronts. Changes in bank capital regulations, which will include a surcharge for systemically important institutions, have significantly increased requirements for loss-absorbing capital at the largest banking firms. The Federal Reserve's stress tests and Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review process require that large financial institutions maintain sufficient capital to weather severe shocks, and that they demonstrate that their internal capital planning processes are effective, while providing perspective on the loss-absorbing capacity across a large swath of the financial system. The Basel III framework also includes liquidity requirements designed to mitigate excessive reliance by global banks on short-term wholesale funding. Oversight of the U.S. shadow banking system also has been strengthened. The new Financial Stability Oversight Council has designated some nonbank financial firms as systemically important institutions that are subject to consolidated supervision by the Federal Reserve. In addition, measures are being undertaken to address some of the potential sources of instability in short-term wholesale funding markets, including reforms to the triparty repo market and money market mutual funds--although progress in these areas has, at times, been frustratingly slow. Additional measures should be taken to address residual risks in the short-term wholesale funding markets. Some of these measures--such as requiring firms to hold larger amounts of capital, stable funding, or highly liquid assets based on use of short-term wholesale funding--would likely apply only to the largest, most complex organizations. Other measures--such as minimum margin requirements for repurchase agreements and other securities financing transactions--could, at least in principle, apply on a marketwide basis. To the extent that minimum margin requirements lead to more conservative margin levels during normal and exuberant times, they could help avoid potentially destabilizing procyclical margin increases in short-term wholesale funding markets during times of stress. Leaning Against the WindAt this point, it should be clear that I think efforts to build resilience in the financial system are critical to minimizing the chance of financial instability and the potential damage from it. This focus on resilience differs from much of the public discussion, which often concerns whether some particular asset class is experiencing a "bubble" and whether policymakers should attempt to pop the bubble. Because a resilient financial system can withstand unexpected developments, identification of bubbles is less critical. Nonetheless, some macroprudential tools can be adjusted in a manner that may further enhance resilience as risks emerge. In addition, macroprudential tools can, in some cases, be targeted at areas of concern. For example, the new Basel III regulatory capital framework includes a countercyclical capital buffer, which may help build additional loss-absorbing capacity within the financial sector during periods of rapid credit creation while also leaning against emerging excesses. The stress tests include a scenario design process in which the macroeconomic stresses in the scenario become more severe during buoyant economic expansions and incorporate the possibility of highlighting salient risk scenarios, both of which may contribute to increasing resilience during periods in which risks are rising.13Similarly, minimum margin requirements for securities financing transactions could potentially vary on a countercyclical basis so that they are higher in normal times than in times of stress. Implications for Monetary Policy, Now and in the FutureIn light of the considerable efforts under way to implement a macroprudential approach to enhance financial stability and the increased focus of policymakers on monitoring emerging financial stability risks, I see three key principles that should guide the interaction of monetary policy and macroprudential policy in the United States. First, it is critical for regulators to complete their efforts at implementing a macroprudential approach to enhance resilience within the financial system, which will minimize the likelihood that monetary policy will need to focus on financial stability issues rather than on price stability and full employment. Key steps along this path include completion of the transition to full implementation of Basel III, including new liquidity requirements; enhanced prudential standards for systemically important firms, including risk-based capital requirements, a leverage ratio, and tighter prudential buffers for firms heavily reliant on short-term wholesale funding; expansion of the regulatory umbrella to incorporate all systemically important firms; the institution of an effective, cross-border resolution regime for systemically important financial institutions; and consideration of regulations, such as minimum margin requirements for securities financing transactions, to limit leverage in sectors beyond the banking sector and SIFIs. Second, policymakers must carefully monitor evolving risks to the financial system and be realistic about the ability of macroprudential tools to influence these developments. The limitations of macroprudential policies reflect the potential for risks to emerge outside sectors subject to regulation, the potential for supervision and regulation to miss emerging risks, the uncertain efficacy of new macroprudential tools such as a countercyclical capital buffer, and the potential for such policy steps to be delayed or to lack public support.14 Given such limitations, adjustments in monetary policy may, at times, be needed to curb risks to financial stability.15  These first two principles will be more effective in helping to address financial stability risks when the public understands how monetary policymakers are weighing such risks in the setting of monetary policy. Because these issues are both new and complex, there is no simple rule that can prescribe, even in a general sense, how monetary policy should adjust in response to shifts in the outlook for financial stability. As a result, policymakers should clearly and consistently communicate their views on the stability of the financial system and how those views are influencing the stance of monetary policy. To that end, I will briefly lay out my current assessment of financial stability risks and their relevance, at this time, to the stance of monetary policy in the United States. In recent years, accommodative monetary policy has contributed to low interest rates, a flat yield curve, improved financial conditions more broadly, and a stronger labor market. These effects have contributed to balance sheet repair among households, improved financial conditions among businesses, and hence a strengthening in the health of the financial sector. Moreover, the improvements in household and business balance sheets have been accompanied by the increased safety of the financial sector associated with the macroprudential efforts I have outlined. Overall, nonfinancial credit growth remains moderate, while leverage in the financial system, on balance, is much reduced. Reliance on short-term wholesale funding is also significantly lower than immediately before the crisis, although important structural vulnerabilities remain in short-term funding markets. Taking all of these factors into consideration, I do not presently see a need for monetary policy to deviate from a primary focus on attaining price stability and maximum employment, in order to address financial stability concerns. That said, I do see pockets of increased risk-taking across the financial system, and an acceleration or broadening of these concerns could necessitate a more robust macroprudential approach. For example, corporate bond spreads, as well as indicators of expected volatility in some asset markets, have fallen to low levels, suggesting that some investors may underappreciate the potential for losses and volatility going forward. In addition, terms and conditions in the leveraged-loan market, which provides credit to lower-rated companies, have eased significantly, reportedly as a result of a "reach for yield" in the face of persistently low interest rates. The Federal Reserve, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation issued guidance regarding leveraged lending practices in early 2013 and followed up on this guidance late last year. To date, we do not see a systemic threat from leveraged lending, since broad measures of credit outstanding do not suggest that nonfinancial borrowers, in the aggregate, are taking on excessive debt and the improved capital and liquidity positions at lending institutions should ensure resilience against potential losses due to their exposures. But we are mindful of the possibility that credit provision could accelerate, borrower losses could rise unexpectedly sharply, and that leverage and liquidity in the financial system could deteriorate. It is therefore important that we monitor the degree to which the macroprudential steps we have taken have built sufficient resilience, and that we consider the deployment of other tools, including adjustments to the stance of monetary policy, as conditions change in potentially unexpected ways. ConclusionIn closing, the policy approach to promoting financial stability has changed dramatically in the wake of the global financial crisis. We have made considerable progress in implementing a macroprudential approach in the United States, and these changes have also had a significant effect on our monetary policy discussions. An important contributor to the progress made in the United States has been the lessons we learned from the experience gained by central banks and regulatory authorities all around the world. The IMF plays an important role in this evolving process as a forum for representatives from the world's economies and as an institution charged with promoting financial and economic stability globally. I expect to both contribute to and learn from ongoing discussions on these issues. 1. The possibility that periods of relative economic stability may contribute to risk-taking and the buildup of imbalances that may unwind in a painful manner is often linked to the ideas of Hyman Minsky (see Hyman P. Minsky (1992), "The Financial Instability Hypothesis (PDF),"  Working Paper 74 (Annandale-on-Hudson, N.Y.: Jerome Levy Economics Institute of Bard College, May)). For a recent example of an economic model that tries to explore these ideas, see, for example, Markus K. Brunnermeier and Yuliy Sannikov (2014), "A Macroeconomic Model with a Financial Sector,"  American Economic Review, vol. 104 (February), pp. 379-421. Return to text 2. For a discussion of this issue encompassing experience across a broad range of advanced economies in the 2000s, including the United States, see Jane Dokko, Brian M. Doyle, Michael T. Kiley, Jinill Kim, Shane Sherlund, Jae Sim, and Skander Van Den Heuvel (2011), "Monetary Policy and the Global Housing Bubble," Economic Policy, vol. 26 (April), pp. 233-83. Igan and Loungani (2012) highlight how interest rates are an important, but far from the most important, determinant of housing cycles across countries (see Deniz Igan and Prakash Loungani (2012), "Global Housing Cycles,"  IMF Working Paper Series WP/12/217 (Washington: International Monetary Fund, August)). Bean and others (2010), examining the tradeoffs between unemployment, inflation, and stabilization of the housing market in the United Kingdom, imply that reliance on monetary policy to contain a housing boom may be too costly in terms of other monetary policy goals (see Charles Bean, Matthias Paustian, Adrian Penalver, and Tim Taylor (2010), "Monetary Policy after the Fall (PDF),"  paper presented at "Macroeconomic Challenges: The Decade Ahead," a symposium sponsored by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, held in Jackson Hole, Wyo., August 26-28). Saiz (2014) suggests that about 50 percent of the variation in house prices during the 2000s boom can be explained by low interest rates, and finds that it was the remaining, "non-fundamental" component that subsequently collapsed--that is, the interest rate component was not a primary factor in what Saiz terms "the bust" (see Albert Saiz (2014), "Interest Rates and Fundamental Fluctuations in Home Values (PDF),"  paper presented at the Public Policy and Economics Spring 2014 Workshops, hosted by the Harris School of Public Policy, University of Chicago, April 8). Return to text 3. The notion that tighter monetary policy may have ambiguous effects on leverage or repayment capacity is illustrated in, for example, Anton Korinek and Alp Simsek (2014), "Liquidity Trap and Excessive Leverage (PDF),"  NBER Working Paper Series 19970 (Cambridge, Mass.: National Bureau of Economic Research, March).Return to text 4. See, for example, Tobias Adrian and Hyun Song Shin (2010), "Liquidity and Leverage,"  Journal of Financial Intermediation, vol. 19 (July), pp. 418-37; and Tobias Adrian and Hyun Song Shin (2011), "Financial Intermediaries and Monetary Economics," in Benjamin Friedman and Michael Woodford, eds., Handbook of Monetary Economics, vol. 3A (San Diego, Ca.: Elsevier), pp. 601-50. For a study emphasizing how changes in the response of monetary policy to financial vulnerabilities would likely change the relationship between monetary policy and financial vulnerabilities, see Oliver de Groot (2014), "The Risk Channel of Monetary Policy (PDF),"  International Journal of Central Banking, vol. 10 (June), pp. 115-60.Return to text 5. This evidence and experience suggest that a reliance on monetary policy as a primary tool to address the broad range of vulnerabilities that emerged in the mid-2000s would have had uncertain and limited effects on risks to financial stability. Such uncertainty does not imply that a modestly tighter monetary policy may not have been marginally helpful. For example, some research suggests that financial imbalances that became apparent in the mid-2000s may have signaled a tighter labor market and more inflationary pressure than would have been perceived solely from labor market conditions and overall economic activity. Hence, such financial imbalances may have called for a modestly tighter monetary policy through the traditional policy lens focused on inflationary pressure and economic slack. See, for example, David M. Arseneau and Michael Kiley (2014), "The Role of Financial Imbalances in Assessing the State of the Economy," FEDS Notes (Washington: Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, April 18). Return to text 6. For a summary of house price developments across a range of countries through 2013, see International Monetary Fund (2014), "Global Housing Watch."  Return to text 7. For a discussion of macroprudential steps taken in Canada, see Ivo Krznar and James Morsink (2014), "With Great Power Comes Great Responsibility: Macroprudential Tools at Work in Canada,"  IMF Working Paper Series 14/83 (Washington: International Monetary Fund, May). Return to text 8. See Norges Bank (2010), "The Executive Board's Monetary Policy Decision--Background and General Assessment,"  press release, May 5, paragraph 28.Return to text 9. See Per Jansson (2013), "How Do We Stop the Trend in Household Debt? Work on Several Fronts,"  speech delivered at the SvD Bank Summit, Berns Salonger, Stockholm, December 3, p. 2. Return to text 10. For a discussion, see Min Zhu (2014), "Era of Benign Neglect of House Price Booms Is Over,"  IMF Direct (blog), June 11. Return to text 11. These questions have been explored in, for example, International Monetary Fund (2013), The Interaction of Monetary and Macroprudential Policies (PDF) (Washington: IMF, January 29). Return to text 12. The IMF recently discussed tools to build resilience and lean against excesses (and provided a broad overview of macroprudential tools and their interaction with other policies, including monetary policy); see International Monetary Fund (2013),Key Aspects of Macroprudential Policy (PDF)  (Washington: IMF, June 10). Return to text 13. See the Policy Statement on the Scenario Design Framework for Stress Testing at Regulation YY--Enhanced Prudential Standards and Early Remediation Requirements for Covered Companies (PDF), 12 C.F.R. pt. 252 (2013), Policy Statement on the Scenario Design Framework for Stress Testing. Return to text 14. For a related discussion, see Elliott, Feldberg, and Lehnert, "The History of Cyclical Macroprudential Policy in the United States." Return to text 15. Adam and Woodford (2013) present a model in which macroprudential policies are not present and housing prices experience swings for reasons not driven by "fundamentals." In this context, adjustments in monetary policy in response to house price booms--even if such adjustments lead to undesirable inflation or employment outcomes--are a component of optimal monetary policy. See Klaus Adam and Michael Woodford (2013), "Housing Prices and Robustly Optimal Monetary Policy (PDF),"  working paper, June 29. Return to text     More to come... FREE AppDownload
Google ImagesTuesday, The Associated Press announced it would begin automating its earnings reports, though it insisted no jobs were being replaced. But, the firm the wire service has tapped to do the automating told BI Tuesday that it produced 300 million pieces of content last year, which is a bit more than what the average reporter is capable of.   Automated Insights, based in Durham, North Carolina, specializes in producing marketing, sales, and personalized financial reports through complex algorithms. Clients have included MSN and Yahoo, for which AI creates individualized fantasy football reports.  "You can apply the technology in many different fields where you're trying to tell stories about data," Automated Insights founder and CEO Robbie Allen said.  But there's also the churn rate. AP says AI's technology will allow it to produce thousands more reports per quarter than it currently creates. They sent us an example of what their reports will now look like: Walt Disney 1Q net income rises 33 percent  Walt Disney 1st-quarter profit rises 33 percent; results beat analysts’ expectations  BURBANK, Calif. (AP) — The Walt Disney Co. (DIS) reported a 33 percent increase in its fiscal first-quarter net income, beating analysts’ estimates. Disney, which is based in Burbank, California, earned $1.84 billion in the quarter, up from $1.38 billion in the same period a year ago. Per-share earnings climbed to $1.03 from 77 cents. The average estimate of analysts surveyed by Zacks was 92 cents per share. Revenue rose 9 percent to $12.31 billion from $11.34 billion. Analysts expected $11.8 billion. The company’s stock price has fallen 6.1 percent so far this year. However, over the past 12 months, Disney stock has increased 33 percent. This story was generated automatically by Automated Insights using data from Zacks Investment Research. Full Zacks research report: DIS.  The other content AI produces is pretty uncanny, and communications manager James Kotecki told us some clients choose to attach their own byline even if the report was automated. Here's an example of their personal finance report: AI Earlier this year, Oxford University researchers predicted there was a 99% chance "data entry keyers" would be automated and a 58% probability personal financial advisers would as well.  AP is the latest news outlet that's deploying robot reporters. In March, a computer wrote the LA Times' first run-through on a 4.7 quake that hit just a few miles from Westwood. The wire service insisted no one's jobs were being taken.  "This is about using technology to free journalists to do more journalism and less data processing, not about eliminating jobs," AP vice president and managing editor Lou Ferrara said on its site. "In fact, most of the staff has been receptive to the effort and involved for the past few months of discussion." That's the line BI also got from AI.  "We’ve never had an implementation where we replace jobs," Allen said.  AP previously worked with AI on a smaller project and is now an investor in the firm. FREE AppDownload
PIMCOData from MorningstarPIMCO flagship Total Return Fund saw another month of net outflows. According to new data from Morningstar, the fund managed by Bill Gross saw net outflows of around $4.5 billion in June. That's the 14th straight month of net outflows for a cumulative total amount of $64 billion. PIMCO has attracted a lot of attention in recent months, largely due to the unexpected departure of CEO Mohamed El-Erian and revelations of Co-CIO Gross's unorthodox management style. Despite the outflows, PIMCO's fund continues to be massive with $225 billion in assets under management. It's worth nothing that outflows are not an industry-wide phenomenon. Competitor DoubleLine Funds, led by other bond king Jeff Gundlach, saw $515 million in net inflows in June into its flagship Total Return Fund. Total assets for that fund were $33 billion according to Morningstar. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jim YoungBill Gross has taken off his sunglasses in his latest note to investors (though half of it is a reprinting of his now infamous speech at Morningstar last month), dropping all humorous anecdotes and life lessons in favor of a more straight ahead analysis. For the past few months, Gross has been expounding on the concept of The New Neutral, his term for the all-time-low interest rate environment facilitated by the world's central banks that investors now find themselves in. One of the implications of this may be that all financial assets, not only bonds, may need to be repriced "relative to historical experience," he writes. In his latest note, Gross takes a look at what we see when we reconfigure Robert Shiller's 10-year cyclically adjusted price-to-earnings (CAPE), one of the most widely accepted means of valuing stocks.  CAPE, or the cyclically-adjusted price-earnings ratio, is calculated by taking the S&amp;P 500 and dividing it by the average of ten years worth of earnings. "At PIMCO, we are amazed that little outside analysis has been applied to this concept that to us affects the array of financial assets available to investors," he says.  The median 10-year CAPE has historically been around 17x price-to-earnings. But the "new neutral" 0% interest rate environment suggests that the figure should be revised upward to 20x, based on another formula, called the Gordon model, that looks at dividends as a function of rates.  That may sound steep, but the current CAPE of 25x shows it could be a whole lot steeper. Gross [emphasis his]: ...the current CAPE of 25x, as shown in Chart 1, is less bubbly than presumed. Fed officials who cite bubbly aspects of “financial conditions” should therefore be less alarmed. If the real New Neutral is significantly lower than 10 or 20 years ago, P/E ratios should be higher, credit spreads should be tighter, and home prices less bubbly than presumed if, in fact, The New Neutral is “neutral” and can lead to historical levels of asset volatility. The New Neutral is critical to future investment success. This currently is PIMCO’s “one big idea. "The New Neutral is not an explicit Yellen or Draghi Put but it can be a rather comforting pacifier, suggesting that yields, credit spreads and P/E ratios themselves are more rational than many market observers fear," he wrote. Here's the chart: PIMCO FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike SegarAnd now back down. Near 1:30 pm in New York, GoPro shares were down about 10%. Earlier this morning, shares of the wearable camera company were down as much as 14%. If its current price holds, this would break GoPro's four-day streak of gains following its debut last Thursday. At one point during Tuesday's session, GoPro shares traded above $48, more than double their IPO price of $24. On Monday and Friday, the stock gained more than 10%, and on Thursday closed above $31 in its first day of trading. GoPro's debut comes amid a huge year for IPOs, and the wearable camera company has been one of the biggest market stories over the last few days. Here's a chart of GoPro shares as of 1:30 pm EST. Google Finance FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsMay factory orders fell 0.5%. Economists were expecting orders to fall 0.3%.  FREE AppDownload
ADPWednesday's ADP jobs report didn't just beat expectation; it crushed them. According to the firm's estimate, U.S. private companies added a whopping 281,000 jobs in June, which blew away expectations for a 205,000 gain. "The breakdown looks good too with small firms of less than 49 employees adding 117K to the count, but increasingly, large companies of over 1,000 employees are hiring, those CEOs always down visiting with the President in Washington, they are starting to hire as well adding 32K to the 281K," noted Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi's Chris Rupkey. "The economy looks good when large firms, always slow to make changes when the wind starts to shift, begin to hire." This comes a day after we learned the pace of U.S. autos unexpectedly accelerated to 16.9 million in June from 16.7 million in May. Analysts were looking for a pace of 16.4 million. Also on Tuesday, we learned that weekly retail chain store sales grew at its fastest pace since December 2011. Deutsche Bank"It is more and more difficult for the bears to find indicators that don’t show an acceleration in growth," said Deutsche Bank's Torsten Slok commenting on chain store sales. "I think we are getting closer to the non-linear inflection point when fixed income markets suddenly will realize that the recovery is real." "The economy has big momentum going for it now as uncertainty over the outlook diminishes," said Rupkey. "Slack in the labor markets is rapidly receding and the economy is stepping it up a notch.  GDP growth may not be what it was hoped to be, but it doesn’t matter because businesses are not holding back." FREE AppDownload
We've been talking a lot about how slow and hard this summer has been for Wall Street's traders, but most of the emphasis has been on fixed income traders since bond yields are so low. The chart below, however, shows that equities traders are feeling the pain too. As BTIG's Chief Global Strategist Dan Greenhaus points out, stock trading is down 27% from Q1 of last year. BTIG FREE AppDownload
Sparklines are word-sized charts that live in individual cells.  This great feature was added to Excel in 2010 but still remains massively underutilized. Produced by Sara Silverstein. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Business InsiderTim Draper Legendary VC Tim Draper has announced he won each of the nearly 30,000 Bitcoins the government  auctioned off Friday.   In a post on Medium.com, Vaurum, a Bitcoin exchange, said Draper was partnering with it to "provide bitcoin liquidity in emerging markets." Draper's investments have included Skype, Hotmail, Tesla, Baidu, Theranos, Athenahealth, Solar City, Box. Here's Draper's statement: Prices were hovering around $640, meaning the value of Draper's haul is about $19 million. FREE AppDownload
After an unusually chilly winter froze sales activity in the U.S. housing market, existing and new home sales rebounded sharply. However, applications for mortgages continue to decline. During the week ending June 27, the MBA mortgage applications index fell 0.2%, following a 1.0% decline the week prior. The week before that, the index plunged 9.2%. "The weakness of mortgage applications for home purchase is the missing piece of the housing recovery," said Capital Economics Paul Diggle this morning. "Homebuilders likely are gaining market share from private sellers - builders are more motivated sellers, and have better access to information - but sales cannot trend higher indefinitely with mortgage demand still so weak," wrote Pantheon Macroeconomics' Ian Shepherdson last week. But other indicators suggest this could soon turn around. "Nevertheless, the falling mortgage delinquency and foreclosure rates, the sharp drop in negative equity and the improving outlook for jobs and income growth all point to an improvement in mortgage applications over the coming months," said Diggle. Here's a chart from Calculated Risk showing the progression of the MBA's purchase applications index. Calculated Risk FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Scott OlsonStock futures are higher after ADP's said private payrolls jumped 281,000 in June. Dow futures are up 25 points, S&amp;P 500 futures are 3 points, and Nasdaq futures are up 3 points. Expectations for ADP's report were for a gain of 205,000, up from 179,000 in May. Today's increase was the biggest gain since November 2012. Earlier this morning, the Mortgage Banker's Association's weekly mortgage application report showed applications fell 0.2%, the third straight week of declines.  Later this morning, factory orders data is set to be reported, and expectations are for a decrease of 0.3%. In corporate news, Tyson Foods and Hillshire Brands made their merger official, with Tyson acquiring Hillshire for $8.55 billion or $63 per share.  FREE AppDownload
Robert Hensley/FlickrThe American economy is being reshaped along the booming industries of technology and energy, according to new rankings of America’s Best Performing Cities by the Milken Institute. In the 2013 rankings, thirteen cities defined by Milken as tech hubs made it into the top 25, while nine could attribute their impressive growth to the energy industry, notably the shale and natural gas renaissance.  Milken's ranking is based on data from both long- and short-term growth in jobs, wages, salaries, and technological output. The city&rsquo;s Business Incentive Fund makes it an attractive place for companies like Southwest Airlines (which just opened a new pilot and flight attendant base) and SCL Health Systems (which moved its headquarters to Denver). The Fund&rsquo;s efforts will result in over 1,600 jobs and $6 in direct fiscal benefit over the next five years. Read the full city profile at Milken &raquo; Read the full city profile at Milken &raquo; Read the full city profile at Milken &raquo; Medical isn&rsquo;t the only thing driving development. San Antonio is also home to the largest oil and gas development in the world in the Eagle Ford Shale. Record drilling levels and high-yield wells are pumping new jobs into energy and related sectors. The city was ninth&nbsp;in job growth over the last five years. A nationwide restructuring of military bases could provide lead to many new jobs. Read the full city profile at Milken &raquo; The state is helping fuel growth as well, as it agreed to provide incentives for upfront expansion costs for Boeing&rsquo;s manufacturing complex. That would create additional jobs, putting the total at 8,000. The state is also updating and improving the port&rsquo;s infrastructure so that it can accommodate larger container ships. Read the full city profile at Milken &raquo; Read the full city profile at Milken &raquo; Expect growth in clean tech, medical devices, aerospace, and health care over the coming years. Read the full city profile at Milken &raquo; Job growth is the seventh&nbsp;strongest in the country over the last five years, largely because Houston&rsquo;s energy infrastructure is only getting more developed. Multiple companies are building export terminals, fractionaters, and ethane crackers. Expect a huge increase in engineering and construction jobs as a result. Read the full city profile at Milken &raquo; Look for Dallas&rsquo;s job growth to get even stronger as American Airlines, Southwest Airlines, and Lockheed Martin look to expand their presence. Read the full city profile at Milken &raquo; Seattle is not a one trick pony either. The city ranks fifth&nbsp;in tech industry concentration with both Amazon and Google breaking ground on massive new campuses. The expansion of the workforce has also increased the demand for housing, rising property values, and restoring construction jobs. Read the full city profile at Milken &raquo; The Utah Science Technology and Research Initiative (or USTAR), founded by the University of Utah, has become a leader in technology-based development. The healthy growth has created a strong recovery in housing and commercial construction. Outdoor tourism has continued to expand as well, bringing in jobs in leisure and hospitality. Read the full city profile at Milken &raquo; With a powerful ecosystem of startups, established companies, universities, and investors, San Jose-Sunnyvale-Santa Clara is able to maintain its tech dominance. The talent pool in the area is deep and ultimately that&rsquo;s what keeps attracting companies. Read the full city profile at Milken &raquo; Read the full city profile at Milken &raquo; The city has a thriving tech sector, anchored by Brigham Young University and software company Novell. Provo is also one of three U.S. cities with Google Fiber, the company&rsquo;s superfast fiber optic service, which will continue to make Provo an attractive place for tech companies. Add in the new data storage center being built by the National Security Agency and you have a recipe for strong job growth. Read the full city profile at Milken &raquo; The city is extremely business-friendly with a low tax, low regulation environment that makes it attractive to out-of-state firms. All of the tech hustle and bustle has led to an influx of young professionals, which has led to a boom in construction.&nbsp; Austin looks to maintain its high-flying output over the next five years as it focuses on clean technology, data centers, digital media, biosciences, and other industries. Read the full city profile at Milken &raquo; FREE AppDownload
Lucy Nicholson/ReutersThe Affordable Care Act, or Obamacare, is wreaking havoc with our view of the American economy. This year, every revision of gross domestic product – our measure of GDP – has provided a new read on what Obamacare is doing for the economy. Initially, the health insurance program appeared to give an enormous boost to healthcare spending in the US, indicating that Americans were rushing in droves to sign up. Most recently, US healthcare spending for the first quarter of 2014 went from unbelievably strong to unbelievably weak. "The near-record setting 9.9% increase in health spending shown in the advance Q1 report has been revised to a 1.4% decline," Goldman Sachs analysts summed up in a report today. The downward revision in itself was not a surprise to most analysts. The size was. "The revision to Q1 was even larger than we expected," admitted Goldman Sachs analysts. Spending on health services has been a bit of a roller coaster over the last several months. The report also found that personal income and spending data for April and May show "nearly flat real growth in health spending". There might be a few reasons for this back and forth in healthcare spending, says Goldman. 1. Hoping to avoid insurance disruptions related to Affordable Care Act, some Americans probably scheduled their elective and less urgent procedures in the last few months of 2013. 2. With patients switching to new insurance plans – more insurance disruption – payments to healthcare providers might have been delayed. As a result, they might be counted among healthcare spending in the second quarter. 3. Timing. The rolling deadlines for Obamacare kept rolling past the traditional financial cutoffs for measuring economic activity. "Many enrolees waited until the 31 March enrollment deadline, which meant in most cases they began to receive benefits only in April or even May," notes Goldman. The healthcare.gov did see a surge of visits and sign-ups in the weeks leading up to the enrolment deadline. In fact, about 900,000 additional enrolees signed up for a plan in the first two weeks of April after they had trouble signing-up by the original 31 March deadline. 4. As always, blame the weather. In this case, the culprit may be "a milder than usual flu season". If you didn't get sick, maybe you hurt the economy by spending less on healthcare. 5. Personal spending. "It is possible that the difference is due to other private-sector forces (eg employer-sponsored insurance or out-of-pocket spending) that are harder to observe on a month-to-month basis," explains the Goldman report. As number of the health plans sold through the Affordable Care Act exchanged came with high deductibles that the consumers have to meet before their plans kick in, out-of-pocket spending could definitely play a role. Especially, since in the beginning of 2014, both doctor and hospital spending were running at more than twice their pre-Obamacare trend, according to Ian Shepherdson, chief economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics. So what's next? More revisions. "[T]he estimates could simply be revised higher once the Quarterly Service Survey data for [the second quarter of the year] becomes available in September," says Goldman. Quarterly Service Survey provides estimates of revenue and expenses for select industries, one of which is healthcare. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
ADPADP said private payrolls climbed 281,000 in June. Consensus was for 205,000, up from 179,000.  It was the biggest gain since November 2012. Pantheon Macro's Ian Shepherdson, who hates the ADP report, nonetheless nailed the number, predicting we would be in for a big surprise to the upside because of a huge discrepancy in ADP's last report with official data. And in his reaction note, he says he's keeping his estimate for Thursday's big nonfarm payrolls report from the BLS at 200,000. "ADP undershot relative to the official private payroll number in May so we expected an overshoot this month; remember, the ADP number is based on both hard data from firms using ADP for payroll processing and lagged official data," he writes. "Still, this is a bigger rebound than we expected. It does not change our payroll forecast, though, which remains at a decent but unspectacular 200K. We worry that the seasonal factors in the official data - which are entirely separate from those used by ADP - were too generous in June last year and will now correct. Any hit will be temporary, though; the labor market is improving steadily despite the short-term noise." Here are the charts. Construction and finance jobs saw nice gains. ADP And change in payroll size. Firms of 1,000 or more comprise the fastest-growing sector: ADP FREE AppDownload
flickr/austinfoodbankTyson Foods and Hillshire Brands have made it official. Tyson Foods will acquire Hillshire Brands in an all-cash deal worth $8.55 billion, or $63 per share of Hillshire. The deal is expected to close in September.  This agreement comes after Tyson and chicken-producing rival Pilgrim's Pride got in a bidding war over Hillshire that started in late May. The finalized agreement between Tyson and Hillshire also comes after earlier this week, Hillshire announced that Pinnacle Foods terminated the previously announced merger agreement between those two companies. Here's the full release from Tyson: SPRINGDALE, Ark. and CHICAGO, July 2, 2014 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Tyson Foods, Inc. (NYSE:TSN) and The Hillshire Brands Company (NYSE:HSH) today announced that they have entered into a definitive agreement under which Tyson Foods will acquire all outstanding shares of Hillshire Brands for $63 per share. The all-cash transaction is valued at approximately $8.55 billion, including Hillshire Brands' outstanding net debt. In addition, Tyson Foods will be making, on behalf of Hillshire Brands, a payment of the $163 million termination fee associated with the termination of Hillshire Brands' merger agreement with Pinnacle Foods Inc. (NYSE:PF). The board of directors of Hillshire Brands has accepted the notice of termination received from Pinnacle Foods and the previously announced transaction has been terminated. "By investing in Hillshire Brands and its collection of leading brands, we have a unique opportunity to transform an important segment of our business, and position Tyson Foods to meet American consumers' growing demand for protein at breakfast and throughout the day," said Donnie Smith, president and chief executive officer of Tyson Foods. "We operate in a competitive and complex marketplace that demands bold steps to remain an industry leader. I am confident that together Tyson Foods and Hillshire Brands have the right products and the right people to create years of enhanced shareholder value and ensure more choices for our customers and consumers." The combination of Tyson Foods and Hillshire Brands will reposition Tyson as a clear leader in the retail sale of prepared foods, with a complementary portfolio of well-recognized brands, including Tyson®, Wright®, Jimmy Dean®, Ball Park®, State Fair® and Hillshire Farm®. In particular, the strength of Hillshire Brands' products in the breakfast category will allow Tyson Foods to capture opportunities in this attractive and fast-growing day part. Sean Connolly, president and chief executive officer of Hillshire Brands, said, "After thoughtful consideration, our board of directors concluded that a combination with Tyson Foods represents a unique opportunity to provide shareholders with significant and immediate value while also positioning our business for continued success. Importantly, this is a testament to the tremendous value our talented team of employees has created over the past few years by strengthening our brands in the eyes of consumers. I am confident that we have found an excellent partner in Tyson. We firmly believe that our combined global platform will be extremely well positioned to capitalize on the substantial growth opportunities in this market in the years ahead." Smith added, "We are confident that the two companies can learn a great deal from each other, and we recognize that Hillshire Brands' value comes from its people, brands and processes. As we begin planning how to bring these companies together, we intend to proceed in a thoughtful manner that honors the strengths embedded in both cultures that have made each of them successful." The transaction has been unanimously approved by the boards of directors of both companies and is anticipated to close by September 27, 2014, the last day of Tyson Foods' fiscal year. Pursuant to the definitive agreement, a subsidiary of Tyson Foods will commence a tender offer for 100% of the outstanding shares of Hillshire Brands common stock for $63 per share in cash. The tender offer is required to be commenced within 10 business days and to remain open for at least 20 business days after launch. Following successful completion of the tender offer, any shares not acquired in the tender offer will be acquired in a second-step merger at the same $63 per share cash price. Closing of the tender offer is conditioned upon customary closing conditions, including the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act and there being validly tendered and not withdrawn a number of shares of Hillshire common stock equal to at least two-thirds of the total outstanding shares of Hillshire common stock. The offer is not subject to any financing condition. Morgan Stanley and JP Morgan are acting as financial advisors to Tyson Foods, and Davis Polk &amp; Wardwell LLP is acting as its legal counsel. Centerview Partners and Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co. are acting as financial advisors to Hillshire Brands, and Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher &amp; Flom LLP is acting as its legal advisor. FREE AppDownload
Twitter ScreenshotThere really wasn't much reason for a Morgan Stanley broker to have a Twitter account until today. Large financial firms' employees are notoriously tight-lipped on social media, but fortunately Morgan Stanley is starting to loosen the reigns. Reuters reported on Monday that the company's brokers can now write and send their own tweets, following guidelines provided by the firm. Brokers must pass a 20 minute online training course and have at least 15 followers to qualify. All tweets still must be approved by Morgan Stanley, which the firm said should take several hours.  But anything will be an improvement from the scripted, generic blurbs they've been using.  Follow any group of Morgan Stanley advisors, and you'll soon see plenty of boring, neutral tweets repeatedly pop up on your feed. And not just about economics. Basically, if you've followed one, you've followed them all. A quick scroll through of the tweets also shows a severe lack of Twitter interaction. Which isn't surprising, given their robotic nature. Letting its advisors personalize their accounts might end up improving the company's social media presence. Overall, Morgan Stanley has a pretty engaged Twitter. A quick search showed far more identified Morgan Stanley advisors than any of its competitors. These topics seemed especially popular with the brokers. Beach vacations: Planning a beach vacation? You might want to check out @TravlandLeisure’s picks for the best beach gear: http://t.co/9F2hwBKL3p Planning a beach vacation? You might want to check out @TravlandLeisure’s picks for the best beach gear: http://t.co/xmPfoQ0xY2 Planning a beach vacation? You might want to check out @TravlandLeisure’s picks for the best beach gear: http://t.co/AANcFM8EfZ Planning a beach vacation? You might want to check out @TravlandLeisure’s picks for the best beach gear: http://t.co/8f7QsUglHk Golf: Looking for some new golf clubs? @GolfMagazine’s Club Test 2014 has the lowdown from fairway woods to hybrids: http://t.co/WvCfcECDiL Looking for some new golf clubs? @GolfMagazine’s Club Test 2014 has the lowdown from fairway woods to hybrids: http://t.co/aze1e36hTl Looking for some new golf clubs? @GolfMagazine’s Club Test 2014 has the lowdown from fairway woods to hybrids: http://t.co/orjq4Ypchm Looking for some new golf clubs? @GolfMagazine’s Club Test 2014 has the lowdown from fairway woods to hybrids: http://t.co/jmFvxwpX1S Cookbook recipes:  From homemade ice cream to grilling essentials, @DeparturesMag recommends 10 cookbooks for summer: http://t.co/9IXZEv9o1Q From homemade ice cream to grilling essentials, @DeparturesMag recommends 10 cookbooks for summer: http://t.co/euO9pLZvul From homemade ice cream to grilling essentials, @DeparturesMag recommends 10 cookbooks for summer: http://t.co/9bFh2R9j8B From homemade ice cream to grilling essentials, @DeparturesMag recommends 10 cookbooks for summer: http://t.co/XeojefPps9 And most recently, the World Cup: RT to show your support for the #USMNT tomorrow! #USAvsBEL #WorldCup2014 RT to show your support for the #USMNT tomorrow! #USAvsBEL #WorldCup2014 RT to show your support for the #USMNT tomorrow! #USAvsBEL #WorldCup2014 RT to show your support for the #USMNT tomorrow! #USAvsBEL #WorldCup2014     Here's to hoping it gets better than this.   FREE AppDownload
Julia La Roche for Business Insider(Reuters) - Two former female employees of Goldman Sachs Group Inc &lt;GS.N&gt; who have accused the bank of gender discrimination are seeking class action status for their case. If class action is granted, the two former employees will be able to press the case on behalf of all female associates and vice-presidents in the company's investment bank, investment management and securities divisions. Cristina Chen-Oster, a former vice-president and Shanna Orlich, a former associate, filed their suit in 2010. The two accused Goldman of fostering a "boys club" atmosphere where binge drinking was common and meetings were held at strip clubs. The case is In re: Chen-Oster vs. Goldman Sachs &amp; Co, 10-06950, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York.    (Reporting by Tanya Agrawal in Bangalore; Editing by Saumyadeb Chakrabarty) FREE AppDownload
AFP/Peter PARKSTourists walk outside a casino complex in Darling Harbour in Sydney. Australia is emerging as a hotspot for new casinos as mogul James Packer and Hong Kong's Tony Fung spearhead projects aimed at attracting Asian high-rollers and tourism dollars.Australia is emerging as the latest hotspot for casino operators as they look to attract Asia's high rollers to the gaming tables as well as its pristine beaches and popular centers like the Great Barrier Reef. With a mining boom slowing, the prospect of thousands of new jobs and billions in tourist dollars has convinced Queensland and New South Wales to back four new casinos, despite fears over their potential environmental and social impacts. The resorts are at various stages of planning, with Queensland, already a popular destination, the main focus of a charge spearheaded by Australian mogul James Packer and Hong Kong billionaire Tony Fung. David Wiadrowski, head of Australian Entertainment and Media at PriceWaterhouseCoopers, said Asians culturally liked to gamble and the latest plans were a win-win for state governments. "For governments, rightly or wrongly, these integrated resorts are an attractive proposition because they create employment opportunities and tax dollars, which they can then put back into the community," he said. But the big question was whether there was sufficient demand. "It is a high-risk strategy, getting the occupancy in the resorts," he said. Australia already has more than a dozen casinos, although not on the same scale as the proposed projects. In May, Fung won a gaming license, conditional on environmental, planning and gambling approvals being obtained, for his huge Aus$8.15 billion (US$7.53 billion) Aquis resort near Cairns. It is being touted as the largest investment in tourism infrastructure in Australia's history, with eight hotels, an exhibition centre, entertainment precincts, a championship golf course and one of the world's biggest aquariums. Once open in 2018, it will employ 20,000 people and boost Queensland's economy by Aus$1.4 billion a year, according to Fung. At the same time, Chinese-Australian investment concern ASF Consortium was granted a licence for its Aus$7.5 billion Broadwater Marine Project on the state's Gold Coast under similar conditions. Separately, Echo Entertainment, which runs the only casino in Brisbane, Packer's Crown and a Hong Kong consortium have bid for the right to build another integrated resort in the Queensland capital. It all comes with Packer, who runs a worldwide gambling empire, planning to open a six-star hotel and luxury casino complex in a prime location on Sydney Harbour in 2019. Packer is clear on his target market. "We believe that Crown Sydney will help attract Asian high net worth travelers to Sydney, in particular from China, creating economic growth, extra taxes and over 1,200 jobs for the people of New South Wales," he said in outlining his plans. There is plenty of competition in the lucrative market, led by the former Portuguese colony of Macau which now generates more than six times the gambling revenue of Las Vegas thanks mainly to big-spending Chinese VIPs. Singapore, the Philippines and Vietnam are also staking their claims to regional market share, with several mega-resorts in the pipeline. Newly minted Chinese are also the market for Fung, a member of one of Hong Kong's best-known banking families. His ambitious Aquis project expects to attract a million guests a year, three-quarters of them from overseas. "Facilities of the like of Aquis Resort at The Great Barrier Reef don't only attract the Chinese mass-market middle-class, but also the big-spending, high-value, ever-expanding Chinese upper-class," he said in announcing his plans last year. However, the project has been criticized by some residents worried that it could hurt local businesses and impact the environment, including the World Heritage-listed Great Barrier Reef. There have also been concerns about the Gold Coast proposal, which will involve dredging an estuary to create a cruise ship terminal. Queensland's largest export is coal but with prices falling and the mining boom that has driven the economy starting to ease, the state needs new ways to attract investment. "This is about growing the Queensland tourism industry and ensuring we maintain our international competitiveness," Queensland deputy premier Jeff Seeney said on the rationale behind the new gaming licenses. The booming Chinese market is already Australia's fastest growing and most valuable with Tourism Australia targeting 1.4 million annual visitors, up from 900,00 last year, within a decade, worth up to Aus$8.2 billion annually. "These visitors make an important contribution to our economy. China is Australia's fastest growing inbound tourism market and tourists from China are the largest spenders in Australia," said Tourism Research Australia chief economist Leo Jago. Packer said the Chinese wanted more than just natural attractions while in Australia, pointing to shopping and casinos. "The natural attractions ... are magnificent but people also want man-made attractions," he said. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved. This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Bobby YipA protester is carried away by police officers from a street after staying overnight at Hong Kong's financial Central district July 2, 2014.  Good morning! Here's what you need to know. Jamie Dimon Has Throat Cancer. The JP Morgan CEO announced his condition is "curable" and has not spread, but that his travel will now be limited as he undergoes treatment for the next eight weeks. JPM shares were down 0.6% pre-market. Dubai Rallies. The Dubai Financial Market General Index surged 8% Wednesday. Arabtec, the region's troubled construction giant, climbed 15%. Knight Frank announced rents climbed 16% in the 12 months through mid-March this year, GulfNews said.  Yellen At 11 A.M. The Fed chief will address an IMF conference.   Hong Kong Protests. 511 people were arrested Wednesday after residents marched through the Chinese city demanding greater freedom in its elections. "Demands for universal suffrage are growing while the public is increasingly concerned about Beijing's approach to the city, which was promised a high degree of autonomy after the handover," the Wall Street Journal said.  US Rents Rise For 18th-Consecutive Quarter. The average monthly rent for an apartment climbed 0.8% to $1,099 in Q2, according to Reis Inc, WSJ said. For the 12-month period ended in June, rents rose 3.4%. UK Home Prices Surpass 2007 Peak. It was only a matter of time. The average home is now $324,000, according to the FT. In London, it's $686,000. Former Goldmanites Seek Class Action Suit. Two former female employees say the American banking giant fostered a culture of misogyny.   Nicolas Sarkozy Placed Under Formal Investigation. A French magistrate says there is now enough evidence to believe the former French president may be guilty of corruption and obstruction of justice. As the Guardian notes, there is no exact equivalent of "mis en examen" in the U.S. common law system. The next step will be an official investigation, which could take years.   Data. At 8:15 a.m. we get ADP payrolls. Consensus is for 210,000 payroll jobs added in June, up from 180,000 in May. At 10 a.m. we get factory orders from the Census. Expectations are for consensus is for a 0.3% decrease in May orders. Markets. U.S. futures were little changed. Stocks in Europe and Asia were mostly higher.   FREE AppDownload
Dimitrios Kambouris/Getty ImagesRalph LaurenWealth tends to create more wealth, but a rich background is not the only way to the top. Some of the world's wealthiest people started out dirt poor. All from humble beginnings, these 15 people not only climbed to the top of their industries but also became some of the richest people in the world. Although the rich do get richer, these rags-to-riches stories remind us that through determination, grit, and a bit of luck anyone can overcome their circumstances and achieve extraordinary success. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA user of Xiaomi uses his mobile phone to take a photo in BeijingBEIJING (Reuters) - Xiaomi, the Chinese smartphone maker valued at $10 billion last year, saw smartphone shipments for the first half of 2014 surge to nearly four times higher than in the same period last year. The Beijing-based Xiaomi shipped 26.1 million handsets in the first six months of the year, it said in a press release on Wednesday. This was more than it shipped in the whole of 2013 and almost quadruple the 7.03 million units for the first half of last year. Sales for the first six months rose 149 percent from a year ago to 33 billion yuan ($5.32 billion), Xiaomi said. Xiaomi, which this year aims to ship 60 million handsets, has rapidly risen to become one of the dominant forces in China's highly competitive smartphone market. It was the sixth biggest smartphone vendor in the world in the first quarter, according to Canalys. The firm, which bills itself as an Internet company offering services and products via its smartphones, is now looking to expand overseas, particularly into Southeast Asia, India, Brazil and Mexico. But according to Canalys, 97 percent of its smartphone shipments in the first quarter were still within mainland China, where it is known for its successful online marketing campaigns. ($1 = 6.2084 Chinese yuan)   (Reporting by Paul Carsten; Editing by Michael Urquhart) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ben JobA customer uses an ATM machine near the National Bank of Abu Dhabi headquarters, April 3, 2013.(Reuters) - Islamic banking is based on core principles of the religion. So it is striking that some banks are removing the word "Islam" from their names - a sign of both the potential of Islamic finance to grow, and the obstacles to it becoming mainstream. In January, Dubai-based Noor Islamic Bank changed its name to Noor Bank. Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank (ADIB) &lt;ADIB.AD&gt;, the emirate's largest sharia-compliant lender, now plans to call itself Abu Dhabi International Bank when operating abroad. In both cases, the changes are part of the banks' plans to expand. They aim to move well beyond a relatively small group of customers who stress religious permissibility, to a much larger customer base for whom pricing and service quality are key. This approach could help Islamic banks establish themselves globally, not just in the Muslim-majority regions of the Gulf and southeast Asia, and appeal to larger numbers of non-Muslims as well as Muslims. But the banks feel that to broaden their appeal and compete directly with conventional institutions for customers, they need to play down their Islamic nature among the general public. "Rebranding is an essential part of widening the appeal of the industry, whether we call it ethical, alternative or sustainable finance," said Yerlan Baidaulet, a member of the board of executive directors at the Saudi Arabia-based Islamic Development Bank, a multilateral institution. "Our mindset has to be global, we have to think wider in terms of customer appeal. Why monopolize the concept and keep calling it only Islamic?" Islamic banks, which follow principles such as bans on interest payments and pure monetary speculation, have been growing rapidly in the Gulf and southeast Asia for a decade. In the six-country Gulf Cooperation Council they now account for about a quarter of total banking assets. In the past couple of years growth has slowed in some countries, however, as the banks have largely run out of new customers who are willing to base their choices primarily on an institution's Islamic credentials. In Qatar, for instance, asset growth rates of Islamic banks have dropped to just above those of their conventional peers, cutting a large lead which the industry previously held. Islamic banking assets in Qatar grew 12.2 percent in 2013, down from 35.1 percent in 2011, central bank data shows. So to continue expanding, the banks have two options. One is to compete for the mass of consumers - by some estimates, 60 or 70 percent of the population even in a mainly Muslim country - who base their choice of bank on non-religious factors. ADIB is in the process of acquiring a large number of such customers; in April it said it had agreed to buy the United Arab Emirates retail banking operations of Barclays &lt;BARC.L&gt; for an expected price of 650 million dirhams ($177 million). The Abu Dhabi bank is now trying to persuade roughly 110,000 former Barclays customers to stay with ADIB rather than moving to conventional banks. This involves competing directly on non-religious aspects of its service. The other growth option for Islamic banks is to move into new markets in Asia, Europe or Africa, in countries which have Muslim minorities but where establishing a profitable presence will require attracting large numbers of non-Muslims. The banks have no intention of changing the sharia-compliant nature of their products. But removing the word "Islam" from their names is a way of avoiding any perception that Islamic banks focus on religious issues while neglecting aspects such as quality of service. Islamic Bank of Britain (IBB), which was acquired in January by Qatar's largest Islamic bank Masraf Al Rayan &lt;MARK.QA&gt;, is studying whether to rebrand itself to appeal to a wider customer base, said IBB chief executive Sultan Choudhury. "We have to look at branding - sometimes the positioning as an Islamic bank can work against us,” he said. "After the takeover we want to look at how we present the bank to customers. We have to consider how to position the brand to be all-inclusive." IBB, based in Birmingham, offered a savings account promotion last year for which it estimated 55 percent of applications were from non-Muslims. It had similar success in marketing products in Scotland by avoiding any of the Arabic terminology often used to describe Islamic financial products, Choudhury said. "Ultimately the contracts are sharia-compliant...but this helps in consumer understanding."  Tirad Mahmoud, ADIB's chief executive, said Islamic banks had an advantage over conventional banks in being able to stress the moral foundations of their business - a consideration which has become more important since banking abuses fueled the global financial crisis. For example, Islamic banks reject much of the complex financial engineering used by conventional banks. Returns on Islamic bank accounts are based on investment income rather than on interest payments. "The real competitive advantage that Islamic banks have is that they are ethically constructed. We need to promote this. The denomination doesn't matter," Mahmoud said. ADIB says a survey which it commissioned found 1,000 retail customers in the UAE, Egypt, Turkey, Indonesia and Britain believed a lack of ethical principles was the biggest problem in their banking relationships. However, the survey also showed that while Islamic banks were perceived as treating customers more fairly than conventional institutions, they were seen as lacking best industry practices and failing to deliver a simple banking experience. Rebranding can help to change that. Name changes can also help Islamic banks expand in markets where regulation limits their branding options: ADIB has plans to enter Turkey, Algeria and Saudi Arabia, all of which restrict the use of religious terms, Mahmoud said. In Turkey, for example, Islamic banks describe themselves as "participation banks" to comply with staunchly secular legislation. "In respect of awareness of participation banks, there has not been any problem. Everybody knows they are Islamic banks and operate according to Islamic banking principles," said Osman Nihat Yilmaz, deputy secretary general of the Participation Banks' Association of Turkey. "Less religiously-linked branding could be useful for the industry if it wants to attract non-Muslim clients." ADIB'S Mahmoud rejected the idea that removing the word "Islam" from banks' names was in any way compromising their Islamic nature. Instead, he said, it could put the focus where it should be: on the quality of banks' services. "Some Islamic banks are unfairly using their Islamic label in Muslim communities. It is an emotional label that is very powerful in these communities, but are we leveraging on emotions?"  (Editing by Andrew Torchia and Peter Graff) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Stoyan NenovBulgaria has been in the midst of a terrifying bank run unlike any they've seen in the past 17 years. Bank runs at Corporate Commercial Bank (Corpbank) and First Investment Bank, the fourth and third largest banks in Bulgaria, began in June after customers began to receive messages via text, email and even Facebook telling them to pull funds from some of the nation's biggest banks. The Bulgarian central bank took control of Corpbank after over 20% of its deposits were yanked out in a week. Meanwhile, depositors withdrew €400 million ($547 million) from First Investment Bank on June 27. The run on Corpbank is said to have stemmed from a rivalry between Tsvetan Vassilev, the bank’s largest shareholder, and Delyan Peevski a member of parliament, according to Jack Ewing and Georgi Kantchev at The New York Times. From the NYTimes: By some accounts, the crisis at K.T.B., which is controlled by Mr. Vassilev, began when Mr. Peevski withdrew large amounts of money. According to this version of the story, allies of Mr. Vassilev retaliated by spreading rumors about F.I.B., where Mr. Peevski was believed to have deposited the money he had taken out of K.T.B. Both banks were vulnerable because they had attracted deposits by paying unusually high interest rates. "It’s really the war between the two oligarchs that has created a problem with those banks," said Tsveta Petrova, an analyst at the Eurasia Group, a political-risk consulting firm. "It’s not a problem with the banking system." This has come amid a political rout in Bulgaria which is expected to see prime minister Plamen Oresharski resign soon, and to face elections on October 5. Six people have been arrested over the weekend on suspicions over their involvement. The European Commission provided an emergency credit line  in the amount of 3.3 billion Bulgarian lev ($2.3 billion) to maintain liquidity in Bulgaria's banking sector. The Bulgarian National Bank has moved to criminalize the dissemination of "misleading or false information or any other information about any bank or financial institution, which may lead to causing commotion and fear in the population." The amendment to the Penal Code asks for a prison term of two to five years. It also asks for a harsher sentence and a fine if such "activities" cause "significant damages or have afforded significant illegal incomes." Bulgarian President Rosen Plevneliev has reiterated that the nation's banking sector is in fact "stable, well regulated and capitalized," according to Bloomberg. For now the emergency credit line seems to have helped stem the crisis, and analysts don't expect this to spread to foreign banks in Bulgaria. But it'll be some time yet before we understand what truly drove Bulgaria's bank run. Corpbank is still closed, but First Investment Bank resumed operations on Monday. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Fred ProuserJonathan Bush, chairman and CEO of AthenaHealth Inc.Athenahealth CEO Jonathan Bush is enthusiastic.  Watch his recent talk at Google, or his TEDMED talk from last year, or any of his many appearances on CNBC, and you immediately notice that he isn't like most public CEOs. His hands and body are up and down and back and forth, his speech is peppered with asides and off-color comments. Bush is the kind of CEO that says his company's stock is worth $1,000 a share before backing off that comment and admitting that, well, who knows what its really worth? Bush has huge goals for Athenahealth, saying the company's ambitions are nothing short of building the healthcare internet. Bush even wrote a book about it: "Where Does It Hurt? An Entrepreneur's Guide to Fixing Health Care."  Wall Street has been on his side for the last few years, but recently some have started to wonder what the deal is with Athenahealth. So have we. Athenahealth is headquartered in Watertown, Massachusetts, and was cofounded by Bush and Todd Park in 1997. The company began as a women's health company that offered an alternative, holistic approach to maternity care. YouTubeToday, Athenahealth markets itself as a software-enabled service company. In 2013, the company's revenue totaled $595 million, and at $130 per share Athenahealth's market cap is just below $5 billion.  The company's software helps medical practices manage care, process billing, and communicate with patients. Steve Rubis, an analyst with Stifel Nicolaus, told Business Insider that, basically, Athenahealth helps doctors get paid.  Athenahealth is primarily used by doctors in ambulatory settings or in small doctors' offices where patients are treated as outpatients.  The idea is that care providers sign up to use Athena's network, and Athena gets a cut when they use the network to, say, get reimbursed from an insurer or communicate directly with patients. A physician using Athenahealth's services will collect a patient's copay, bill an insurer, and get reimbursed for services all using the apps, instead of mailing these forms out for processing and waiting for reimbursements to be mailed back. "Revenue cycle management," is what Rubis called this process in a conversation with Business Insider. Epic and Cerner are two giants in the healthcare-software space that provide IT infrastructure for healthcare providers and hospitals using enterprise software. Almost everything Bush says about Athenahealth is an effort to position it as the anti-enterprise. But Athenahealth's ambitions are very real. In a talk at MIT last year, Bush said, "What we think we're doing is building the healthcare internet." In interviews and speeches Bush has talked about how the current healthcare system "isn't an expression of our humanity." Bush says that if Americans are going to spend 18% of every dollar they earn on healthcare, they ought to be able to decide how they spend those dollars. The system today, Bush argues, prevents this from happening. And it's this system that presents problems for Athenahealth's ambitions. YouTubeAthenahealth is after a complete reinvention of how healthcare is dispensed, received, and selected. Bush speaks a lot about his experience driving an ambulance in New Orleans, and how treatment options seemed too limited, as patients often just needed treatment that could, but wasn't allowed to be, dispensed outside of a hospital. Bush and his team driving the ambulance also got paid for driving a patient to the hospital, not for treating them even if they could. The incentives, Bush argues, were not in line with what seemed to be the goal: helping people. The problem with Athenahealth's ambitions, however, is that the entire healthcare system works within a number of accepted practices that are hard — if not seemingly impossible — to change. Currently, when you go to the doctor any proposed treatment is assigned a procedure code that is sent to an insurer and either accepted or declined. There are thousands of procedure codes. Athenahealth wants to streamline an industry that is averse to streamlining. In his talk at Google, Bush says the success of the Massachusetts healthcare system over the last twenty years ultimately created institutions that are, "the personification of the problem."  In Massachusetts, Bush says, there is too much healthcare that is too expensive, and now with an outsize workforce, too politically influential.  Bush says this is a problem not only for healthcare in the U.S., but for how Athenahealth can become the company Bush thinks it can be — a lean, flexible, cloud-based healthcare services company. Athenahealth debuted on the Nasdaq on Sept. 20, 2007, just about one year before the financial crisis sent the markets tumbling. For most of its first three years as a public company, Athenahealth traded in the $20-to-$30 range. When the calendar turned to 2012, things really started to get interesting for the stock. By the end of 2012, Athenahealth had seen shares trade from about $50 to more than $90, eventually starting 2013 at about $75. By the end of 2013, those shares would be worth $130. This chart shows Athenahealth stock from the beginning of 2012 through 2013. Google Finance Early this year, the stock was bid up to $195 before violently selling off amid weakness in shares of internet-based companies, with the stock's decline eventually punctuated by hedge fund manager David Einhorn's short presentation, or bet that the price of the company's shares would fall, at the Sohn Investment Conference in early May. Here's Athenahealth's year-to-date performance, and you can see the sharp rise through February and subsequent tumble to its early May lows. Google Finance In his short presentation on Athenahealth, Einhorn said it "is an excellent company with an excellent product, run by a well-meaning and honest, though occasionally promotional, CEO." Einhorn added that the world may be better off if Athenahealth succeeds, and said, "I am in no way rooting for it to fail." But looking at the company from a purely financial and performance-based perspective, the justification for nearly $200 stock did not make sense. Einhorn highlighted the following slide from a 2012 Athenahealth presentation. At the top it says "our goal" is 30% annual revenue growth. And this is an aim that the company often repeats. But it's a goal, not guidance, or a projection from management about what they expect their financial performance to be in upcoming periods. Athenahealth Einhorn subsequently points out that Athena's revenue and earnings goals, as well as its margins, have disappointed.  "I'm not giving guidance of 30%," Bush told CNBC's Jim Cramer last month. "It's worth a shot every year and some years we've grown more than 30% and some years less." In his talk at Google, Bush said that the next generation of companies aren't going to grow "like a Google," but will grow faster than companies did in the past. A 30% growth trajectory, it them would seem, is almost a necessity for a company looking to entrench itself in an industry as staunch as healthcare. Last month, Steve Rubis at Stifel Nicolaus initiated coverage on Athenahealth with a "buy" rating at a $155 price target. Rubis wrote that, "Given the company's underpenetrated addressable market in terms of revenue and physicians, we believe the company is poised to drive growth for the next several years." YouTube Rubis notes that in the physician, hospital, and patient communication markets, the company has penetration of about 5.7%, 2%, and 3.6%.  In his TEDMED talk given last year, Bush cites the success of Whole Foods cofounder and co-CEO John Mackey, who has a great company and a great brand ... and has 2% market share in the grocery space. Bush's central argument: If you build the best product, customers will find you. In his research note, Rubis writes that, "Over the long term, we believe the company's primary focus lies in developing the digital backbone of healthcare information exchange." Rubis told Business Insider that Athenahealth sees enterprise services offered by companies like Epic and Cerner as commodities. It's Athenahealth's apps services that the company hopes will be layered over that. According to data from Bloomberg, of 27 Wall Street analysts covering Athenahealth, only two have a "sell" or equivalent rating.  One of those is Bret Jones, an analyst at Oppenheimer who maintains an "underperform" rating on shares.  Like Einhorn, Jones still likes Athena's business model generally, writing that he views its business model as superior to traditional BPOs, or business process outsourcing firms. Jones writes, "We believe Athena's margins are structurally disadvantaged relative to pure SaaS companies and Street growth expectations are simply too high." A good company with a good business, but a valuation that is overheated. Since Einhorn's presentation, shares of the company are roughly unchanged, up about 3%. But even after a steep decline, Athenahealth shares are still expensive for a company that earned a profit of just $0.07 per share last year. Athenahealth was among the market's highest flyers in 2013 and into the early part of this year, but after a more than 40% peak-to-trough loss, and a very public short presentation, people have begun to take notice. After a steep decline in its share price, and a public short presentation by Einhorn, the spotlight will now squarely be on Athenahealth and its charismatic, if sometimes enigmatic, CEO. Stay tuned. FREE AppDownload
