American English dialects and pronunciation have been a point of interest from coast to coast among linguists for years.  In 1999, the Harvard Dialect Survey, a research project conducted by Professor Bert Vaux, used a series of questions, to collect information about what terms, word pairs and sounds are used in different parts of North America.  Some of the words highlighted in the survey inspired the "Regional Dialect Meme" videos, where people from around the country taped their pronunciation versions of words and sayings. The data from the Harvard study was eventually brought to life by PhD student, Joshua Katz, through a series of interactive dialect maps, which went viral. In this 90-second clip, we explore how some of the most contentious words and phrases are pronounced in the different parts of the country. Prooduced by Alana Kakoyiannis. Follow BI Video: On Facebook &gt;
MarineTrafficNorth Korea is often referred to as "The Hermit Kingdom" in the west — and one map demonstrates why. The website MarineTraffic displays live data of cargo ships over 299 gross tonnage, and while South Korean ports of Incheon, Busan, and Ulsan are bustling with activity, shipboard cargo movement in the North barely registers, despite the country having eight major seaports. City AM notes: Perhaps looking at volumes of shipping to each of the Koreas is an unfair comparator, as North Korea is able to take greater advantage of rail links to the continent, but neighboring China itself is a hive of cargo ship activity. The port of Dandong, close to the China-North Korea border is itself incredibly popular. The North does trade with a limited number of countries with about $3.9 billion in exports. But that's nothing compared to South Korea's $557 billion, Japan's $697 billion, or China's $2.2 trillion. It's just another striking difference between South Korea and North Korea, a country without widespread electricity usage seen as virtually dark from space. FREE AppDownload
Whether you think bitcoin is an incredible advancement, or just a weird Internet fad, it has been very, very good for a Stockholm-based company called KnCMiner. That's because KnCMiner makes special computers that "mine" these coins. That's the process that creates the cyber-money.  There are even bitcoin alternatives. In less than a month, KnCMiner sold $12 million worth of a new special computer, called the Titan, which mines bitcoin alternatives that are based on the cryptographic program called scrypt, co-founder Sam Cole tells us. Scrypt is responsible for currencies like Litecoin, Dogecoin, Iceland's Auroracoin, even Stalwartbucks, a Dogecoin clone created by Business Insider's own Joe Weisenthal. Dogecoin started as a joke but became a real thing last year, a popular way to give someone a tip. The company raked in the first $4 million just hours after the machine went on sale, Cole says. And that beats its sales last November, when KnCMiner sold $3 million worth of bitcoin-mining computers in just four days. Mining these coins involves solving a series of difficult cryptography math problems. The typical home PC doesn't have the computational power to do that, hence the need for specially designed computers. These computers do only one job: mine for coins. It's become a serious business. A bitcoin-mining machine will set you back about $3,500 to $6,000; the Titan costs almost $10,000. (The team is working on a less expensive version of the Titan, too, that will cost a mere $5,500.) Cole says the company generated $45 million in sales in 2013. So with 2014 sales so far, KnCMiner has brought in $57 million in about 16 months. And yes, it does accept payment in bitcoin – and Litecoin, too. These computers are supposed to literally pay for themselves. FREE AppDownload
20th Century Fox/IMDBFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Robo-Advisors Aren't A Threat To Traditional Advisors (Business Insider) The rise of Robo-advisors — start-ups that use algorithms to help investors create and manage their portfolios — is a trend to watch this year. Some have argued that the emergence of robo-advisors is changing the wealth management industry. But Robert Stammers, Director of Investor Education at CFA Institute, doesn't think that this necessarily means they're threatening traditional advisors. Stammers told Business Insider in a phone interview, that robo-advisors are helping a segment of the market that is underserved. These traditionally target people with about $20,000 - $30,000 in investible assets, while traditional advisors tend to look for those with $500,000 and over. Stammers said there haven't been enough studies or enough data on it because robo-advisors are still so nascent. "I think most traditional investors, even the big warehouses, in order for them to be profitable at the price points that they're selling their services at, people have to have a pretty big portfolio," Stammers said. "The reason that these make sense, is that these have very low margins, so it's very good for the consumer because the cost of advice is low, and it's a volume business. For people with smaller accounts it's really about access." Referring to Vanguard's new offering, 'Personal Advisor Services', Stammers said, "I keep going back to Vanguard, they have that service already and they're building this robo-advice service because they've realized that there's a part of the market that is not being served, that they can bring on as new clients. So they don't think they're competing with themselves. So I don't see other traditional advisors seeing them as competitive as well." How To Tell If You're On Track To Your Long-Term Goals (Charles Schwab)  The S&amp;P 500 had its largest gain in 16 years in 2013, and returned over 30% to investors. But not every investor did equally well. It's important for investors to understand how their portfolio performed and if they're on track to meeting their long-term goals. They can do this by doing four key things, according to Rande Spiegelman. 1. Find a suitable benchmark for your portfolio — "Assess the performance of your portfolio as a whole, including all your taxable and tax-deferred accounts," writes Spiegelman. "Compare your portfolio's actual performance in 2013 (accounting for any deposits or withdrawals during the year) to a benchmark return of appropriate market indexes weighted to match your target asset allocation." The portfolio doesn't have to beat the benchmark every time, but it shouldn't underperform it. This is also a good time to consider rebalancing it. 2. Look at the performance of individual investments — Once you're done examining the big picture, look at each stock, bond, and mutual fund's performance. 3. Examine your personal net worth — Assess your net worth, look at liabilities like mortgages, debt, and what you might owe if you sell your assets, and "complete the picture with a statement of personal cash flows—all sources of annual income minus expenses." Compare this with the previous year  to see if your net worth increased and by how much and this is a good way to keep tabs on whether you're saving enough. 4. Update your savings and investment plan — "Putting one in place involves assessing your current situation, identifying your goals—retirement, college funding for children and so on—then formulating a savings and investment plan to help you reach them, as well as a distribution plan to fulfill your goals," writes Spiegelman. "Of course, no matter how good your plan is, it won't be of much help unless you take action." The Stock Market Is More Expensive Than Usual (FactSet)  Stock prices are near all-time highs but they're also expensive. This is because stock prices are rising faster than expected earnings growth. "The P/E ratio of 15.2 for the index as a whole is above the prior 5-year average forward 12-month P/E ratio of 13.2, and above the prior 10-year average forward 12-month P/E ratio of 13.8," according to FactSet's John Butters. "It is also slightly above the forward 12-month P/E ratio of 15.1 recorded one month ago. During the past month, the price of the index increased by 1.2%, while the forward 12-month EPS estimate increased by 0.2%."  FactSetWealth Management Unit Helps Boost Morgan Stanley Profit (Business Insider)  Morgan Stanley saw its Q1 profit surge in part because of the success of its wealth management unit. The wealth management division reported net revenue of $3.62 billion. Higher fees and positive flows helped boost asset management fee revenue to $2 billion, from $1.9 billion a year ago. From the press release: "Wealth Management representatives of 16,426 increased from 16,284 as of March 31, 2013. Average annualized revenue per representative of $881,000 and total client assets per representative of $118 million increased 4% and 7%, respectively, compared with the prior year quarter."  Now that Morgan Stanley has completed its acquisition of the Smith Barney brokerage from Citigroup, it can keep its earnings for itself. In the prior year quarter, Morgan Stanley's wealth management division earnings "included a non-controlling interest allocation to Citi of $121 million." This Chart Shows Where The Money Has Been Going This Month (Business Insider)  Stocks have been taking a beating this month but equities are still the most popular asset class among investors. "Flow into equity ETFs is still pretty robust," according to David Keeble, global head of interest rates strategy at Crédit Agricole. "Indeed, the $10 billion month-to-date equity inflow compares to a 12-month inflow of approximately $154 billion, so there really isn't any evidence of slowing purchases." Money has been flowing into international equity ETFs and to a smaller degree to large-cap American funds.  Crédit Agricole, Bloomberg FREE AppDownload
Neal Soss, Credit Suisse’s Vice Chairman of Global Fixed Income and Economics Research, says that it’s not unusual to have periods of sluggish growth after a major financial crisis, as governments, businesses, financial institutions, and consumers retrench. The danger arises if that retrenchment phase drags on for too long. At that point, mediocre growth can start to feel more permanent, and businesses will feel a declining incentive to invest in the possibility of expansion. What’s more, the skills of the long-term unemployed can atrophy to the point that they verge on being permanently unemployable. “The downside to an episode of this sort – if that sluggish growth continues – isn’t just the slower growth itself. It’s that the potential of the economy will deteriorate,” he says. With no new fiscal or monetary stimulus on the horizon, there is concern among economists that world leaders are running that very risk. “Most of the world is allergic to explicit fiscal stimulus and the public sector balance sheet leverage it implies,” Credit Suisse’s fixed income analysts wrote in their most recent quarterly global economics survey, “Speeding Up to Average.” European officials have imposed stringent austerity requirements on Greece, Spain, Portugal, and Ireland in exchange for their various bailouts. A combination of tax increases and spending cuts over the last four years have reduced the U.S. budget deficit from 10 percent of GDP in 2009 ($1.4 trillion) to a projected 3 percent ($514 billion) this year. Japan’s consumption tax rose from 5 percent to 8 percent without any accompanying monetary stimulus, a reflection of how eager Japanese policymakers are to shrink both the deficit and the public debt, which is twice the size of the economy. Meanwhile, Chinese authorities are trying to rein in local government spending by reducing credit availability, while Brazil pledged to cut its budget by $18.5 billion in February to meet a budget surplus target of 1.9 percent. Additional monetary stimulus seems equally unlikely. Most central bankers are keeping monetary policy accommodative, but the Federal Reserve is steadily winding down quantitative easing, and both the Bank of Japan and European Central Bank have disappointed those who were confident they would ease further in the first quarter. Several countries are also implementing structural reforms that will cause further short-term pain in the hopes of increased economic potential five or more years down the line. China’s efforts to rebalance its economy toward domestic consumption, for example, will ultimately create a more sustainable growth model that doesn’t depend on ill-advised local government borrowing financed by shadow banking. The recent crackdown on official corruption is also a move in the right direction. But both moves have contributed to China’s declining GDP growth, which is even below the government’s own 7.5 percent forecast. The Reserve Bank of India, meanwhile, aims to bring inflation to 4 percent within two years, down from an average of 8.4 percent since 2005. The “extremely conservative” policies required to achieve that will surely restrict growth, Credit Suisse economists say. If policymakers seem unlikely to kick-start the global economy, an increase in business spending could do the trick. The conditions are certainly ripe for it. At the end of the fourth quarter of 2013, U.S. businesses made record post-tax profits of $1.9 trillion, up 35 percent from the previous peak of $1.41 trillion in 2006. Net corporate cash flow reached its highest-ever level in the third quarter of 2013 at $2.28 trillion. And yet, at $458.6 billion in the fourth quarter of 2013, net private domestic business investment in the U.S. was still below 2007 levels. “Some of that, I suspect, is simply the passage of time, as confidence heals after the crisis we’ve had,” Soss says. “But we’re apparently still lacking that something that will give business leadership the kind of confidence in the medium- and long-term future that gets cash out of their hands and turned into actual business activity.” Maybe that something is an unexpected positive surprise, or maybe it’s a few more months of encouraging economic data – enough to prove this recovery is the real deal, even if it’s slower and weaker than we’d have hoped. FREE AppDownload
A study recently conducted by the Evolution &amp; Ecology Research Centre has taken the guessing game out of what beard style women prefer. We visited Astor Place Hairstylists to get some tips on how to keep up the popular yet subtly maintained 10-day beard. To learn more about the story behind this popular downtown Manhattan barber where celebrities like Alec Baldwin, Stephen Colbert, and Channing Tatum are regulars, check out the feature length documentary by Karen Gehres, "Astor Barber All Stars." Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis Keep up with Business Insider Video on Facebook and Twitter.
Thomson ReutersBeef and pork ribs lie on a grill at The Outdoor Grill in Culver City, Los Angeles(Reuters) - With the Chicago weather finally getting a little nicer, Chris Anderssen wanted to grill some burgers outside for a group of family and friends. When she got to the meat aisle at her local Jewel-Osco supermarket, a case of sticker shock made her change the menu: extra lean ground beef was $4.99 a pound. "Five adults, four teenagers, that's a lot of hamburger to buy," said Anderssen, a 42-year-old mother of two who works as an office manager. She bought chicken instead for $2.99 a pound. Retail beef and pork prices reached all-time highs last month, according to Bill Hahn, agricultural economist at the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Economic Research Service. That's prompting some consumers to pivot to less expensive protein sources and driving the grocery, packaged food and restaurant industries to adjust portion sizes, tweak their menus and roll out new products in a bid to address higher food costs without driving customers away. Beef prices are higher because of rising feed costs and the decline of the U.S. domestic cattle herd, now the smallest since 1951. Pork prices have been rising in part because of a deadly piglet virus that began in Ohio last year and whose causes are still unknown. Prices for beef and poultry destined for home consumption are forecast to rise as much as 4 percent in 2014, while pork prices may gain 3 percent, according to the USDA. The retail price for beef was $5.72 a pound in March, passing the previous record of $5.58 in February. A year ago the beef price was $5.26. Pork retailed for $3.83 a pound in March, beating the former record high of $3.81 set last October. A year ago, pork was selling for $3.52, the USDA said. Higher prices are benefiting producers including Tyson Foods Inc, the largest U.S. meat processor, which said on January 31 that higher prices for beef and robust demand for chicken boosted its profits Still, many consumers are sticking with meat. Soaring prices "might dent the consumption a little bit, but right now the reason prices are high is because demand is good and supplies are low," Credit Suisse's New York-based food analyst Robert Moskow said. An improving U.S. economy is helping consumers stick with their favorite foods, said Wolfe Research retail analyst Scott Mushkin, also based in New York. "People grumble about the price of bacon but still eat bacon," Mushkin said. Edwin Laboy, known among his friends and family in West Palm Beach, Florida, for dishes ranging from pork spare ribs to whole roasted pigs, is among those unwilling to give up his favorite foods. "I accept it," the 36-year-old utility company supervisor said. "I don't like it." Laboy said he and his brother decided to team up to buy the hog they roasted for a recent holiday celebration. Food retailers are responding to higher prices by offering more small-sized fresh meat portions, said Phil Lempert, who's known as the "Supermarket guru" and writes the Lempert Report, a trade publication on grocery stories. "People are buying smarter," said Lempert, adding that some home cooks are stretching their food dollars by blending ground beef with vegetables and other ingredients in dishes like lasagna. Demand for protein is also growing as consumers shift away from waistband-expanding foods featuring carbohydrates such as processed grains and added sugar. Consumption of processed protein foods such as sausage, breakfast sandwiches, Greek yogurt and protein bars has grown 7 percent since 2009, according to Moskow. During that same period, consumption of foods made from processed carbohydrates, including snacks such as chips and crackers, have fallen 5 percent, said Moskow, who recently published a note titled "Return of the Caveman." Packaged food sellers including Hillshire Brands Co, Hormel Foods Corp and Kraft Foods Group Inc have begun marketing new protein snacks. Kraft's "P3" snacks include small portions of cheese, nuts and meat in a package resembling the company's own Lunchables meal packs for kids, for which consumers are willing to pay higher prices because of their convenience. Raising prices for more utilitarian packaged meats, however, has proven tricky. Hillshire lost "fairly significant short-term market share" after boosting prices on sausages and hot dogs in December, months before rivals began following its lead, Moskow said. Reluctant to take a similar risk, most traditional packaged food makers are scouring their businesses for cost savings to offset higher meat prices and lackluster demand for processed food. RESTAURANT OPERATORS U.S. restaurant operators, many of whom are swallowing higher meat prices to avoid the risk of a consumer backlash, are switching to smaller as well as lower-quality cuts. Bloomin' Brands Inc's Outback Steakhouse and Darden Restaurants Inc's LongHorn Steakhouse have promoted smaller "petite" steaks as well as seafood and chicken dinners, said ITG Investment Research restaurant analyst Steve West in St. Louis. With chicken prices rising, the switch to poultry saves restaurants only so much, so some are heavily breading meat to add bulk while keeping menu prices in check, said Bob Goldin, an executive vice president at consulting firm Technomic in Chicago. Buffalo Wild Wings Inc last summer started selling its namesake chicken wings by weight instead of by the piece. The pieces are never uniform in size, so the move should help the chain more effectively manage their cost, West said. Higher prices for steak, avocados and cheese convinced Chipotle Mexican Grill, the popular burrito chain, that it couldn't delay raising prices any longer. "It's been nearly three years since our last company-wide price increase, and while we want to remain accessible to our customers, we are at a point where we have to pass along these rapidly rising food costs," said Jack Hartung, Chipotle's chief financial officer, on a conference call with analysts on Thursday. The moves are designed to help restaurants keep meat price increases in line with those at the supermarket. Meanwhile, restaurants have already lost their grip on customers like Laboy, who doesn't order meat when he dines out. "For the same price of steak at a restaurant, you can buy two to cook at home," said Laboy. Instead, these days, he orders sushi. (Reporting by Lisa Baertlein in Los Angeles and Theopolis Waters in Chicago, Editing by John Pickering) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
AP PhotoOver the last five years, the company that operates the World Poker Tour, bwin.party Digital Entertainment, has seen its stock price cut in half. Meanwhile, the London Stock Exchange, where the company has listed, has climbed by more than half. Not a good look. That makes this $1.6 billion market cap U.K company — which also has businesses ranging from casino games, to sports betting, to poker —  a very attractive target for hedge funds that happen to play the very American activist investing game. In this case it's Jason Ader and Andrew Wallach of SpringOwl Asset Management taking up the challenge. They own 5.25% of the company's stock and Ader has a long history in the gaming world. He made his name as a star analyst in the sector at Bear Stearns, and he currently sits on the board of Las Vegas Sands. All he and Wallach want are four seats on the board. That's it. "SpringOwl has made numerous attempts to work with the incumbent Board of BPTY to facilitate a reconstitution of the Board to ensure accountability to shareholders. Unfortunately, the incumbent Board has chosen to seek to maintain the status quo. We believe shareholders have become disillusioned by ongoing declines in business metrics as the Board approves incremental equity grants," said Ader. Think of this like a reverse British Invasion. Forty percent of Bwin.Party Digital Entertainment's stock is held by American investors, anyway. "At the end of the day we want to surround this management team with a board ... that's going to hold them accountable for underperformance," Ader told Business Insider. We'll be following this to see how it all shakes out. In the meantime, check out the descriptions of the four proposed board members below. FREE AppDownload
Not only are stock prices near all-time highs, they're also getting more expensive. And by expensive, we mean price-earnings ratios are getting high. This is because stocks are rising faster than earnings are expected to grow. Currently, the price-to-forecasted earnings ratio of the S&amp;P 500 is 15.2, notes FactSet's John Butters. "This P/E ratio is based on Wednesday’s closing price (1862.31) and forward 12-month EPS estimate ($122.62)," said Butters. "The P/E ratio of 15.2 for the index as a whole is above the prior 5-year average forward 12-month P/E ratio of 13.2, and above the prior 10-year average forward 12-month P/E ratio of 13.8," he continued. "It is also slightly above the forward 12-month P/E ratio of 15.1 recorded one month ago. During the past month, the price of the index increased by 1.2%, while the forward 12-month EPS estimate increased by 0.2%." As you can see in the chart, the ratio is at a level last seen before the financial crisis. But before you decide to short the stock market, keep in mind that these valuations could certainly go higher. Furthermore, stocks don't have to fall for valuations to revert to their means; earnings could just catch up. FactSet FREE AppDownload
In 2008, developer Harry Macklowe was faced with $7 billion in debt and was forced to give up his crown jewel, the 50-story, 1.82 million-square-foot GM Building at 767 Fifth Avenue. A group led by Boston Properties’ Mort Zuckerman paid $2.8 billion for the tower, about twice what Macklowe had paid just five years earlier. But last year, when the families of two billionaires, Soho China’s Zhang Xin and Brazilian banking magnate Moise Safra, bought a 40 percent stake in the building, its value had shot up to $3.4 billion, making it the most expensive office tower in the country. “It’s probably one of the most recognizable assets in the world,” said Greg Kraut, a principal at commercial brokerage Avison Young. Kraut added that the property was one of the only buildings in the Plaza District with floor plates large enough to support the bigger hedge funds. “Once you manage more than a couple billion dollars worth of assets, you can’t be on 10,000-square-foot floor plates,” he said. This month, The Real Deal broke down just which companies occupy the trophy tower. Hint: billionaire bold-faced names abound. CoStar Group data shows that there are currently over 90 tenants at the property, which is anchored by the white-shoe law firm Weil, Gotshal &amp; Manges and cosmetics giant Estée Lauder. But the building is also home to some of the world’s most high-profile private equity firms, with founders including billionaires Carl Icahn and J. Christopher Flowers. And according to website Hedge Tracker, the address was home to eight of the world’s top 100 hedge funds in 2012. CBRE Group, which handles leasing at the property, referred questions to Boston Properties, which did not respond to requests for comment. On the following page is a look at some of the building’s most noteworthy tenants.
Getty Images/ Jeff GrossLisa WangBalyasny Asset Management analyst Lisa Wang will be inducted into the USA Gymnastics Hall of Fame this August, FinAlternatives reported, via Dealbreaker.  The hedge fund analyst is a three-time U.S. National Champion rhythmic gymnast, a three-time World Championship team member, and Pan American Games Champion, her Linkedin profile states. She graduated from Yale in 2012. She's been working for BAM since June 2013. She's part of the fund's Deep Research Team, her profile states.  Balyasny, a fund founded by Dmitry Balyasny, has a culture of people with a "work- hard/play-hard" mentality. When they make a hire, they look for folks who have a passion for the financial markets, embrace an entrepreneurial spirit and are self starters, are dedicated and hard-working, have the highest integrity, are confident yet humble, want to learn and grow, have intellectual curiosity and are team players and enjoy collaboration, the fund's website states. It looks like Wang certainly has that going for her.  Check out some photos of Wang doing her rhythmic gymnastics routines:  Getty Images/ Jeff Gross Getty Images/ Jeff Gross Getty Images/ Harry HowGetty Images/ Brian Bahr   FREE AppDownload
When Salesforce.com CEO Marc Benioff asks tech CEOs to donate to his new anti-poverty effort, SF Gives, two-thirds say yes. One-third? Not so much. This is one of his many efforts to give back to the city. It's one reason why Google, and not Salesforce.com, has become the symbol of the tech unrest in San Francisco. After all, Salesforce.com is by far the biggest tech employer in that city with about 4,000 employees in the area. And it is leasing not one, but two new towers currently under construction in San Francisco to many more, at least another 1,000 this year alone, the company tells us. One of those buildings will be the tallest west of Chicago, and will even be known as the Salesforce Tower. So why is it that Google's commuter buses have being attacked, or people wearing Google Glass have been assaulted, while people clad in Salesforce.com swag and clothing can roam the city unscathed? A lot of that has to do with the marketing genius, and genuine generosity, of Benioff, a third-generation San Franciscan. Benioff is famous for his 1-1-1 model of philanthropy in which 1% of a company's equity, 1% of its employees' time, and 1% of its products are donated to charitable causes. Countless other tech startups nationwide have since done the same. It means that most of those 4,000 employees work directly with San Francisco-area non-profit organizations. Benioff is also personally generous to his city. He and his wife Lynne have donated $200 million to date to build a local hospital, UCSF. He also famously told the mayor of San Francisco to "think bigger" when asking him for money for schools. That led to a $2.7 million donation for middle schools, reports the San Francisco Chronicle. Business Insider/Julie BortNew Salesforce building being built in San FranciscoAnd he pays the city back in little ways. For instance, Salesforce.com doesn't give its employees free meals. They can support nearby restaurants if they want a gourmet lunch. And now, in conjunction with his expansion plans, Benioff has launched a new initiative called SF Gives to quickly raise $10 million from local tech companies for anti-poverty programs. Benioff is personally calling CEOs and asking them to kick in $500,000, browbeating them if necessary. When he launched the program in March, he said: "We don't want to be the industry that looks like 'The Wolf of Wall Street.'" In a progress report interview with San Francisco Magazine's Jon Steinberg, Benioff says he's well on his way to the $10 million goal but the tech industry hasn't been as generous as it could be: New industries and movements come out of S.F. on a regular basis ... the Gold Rush, the Summer of Love, gay rights—but it’s also where Bank of America was headquartered, Wells Fargo, Levi Strauss. ... But tied into that has always been generosity: the Haas family, the Hellmans, the Fishers, the Shorensteins. During every one of these boom times, the people who benefited the most were also giving back the most. But this time around, we haven’t been able to talk about a broad philanthropic effort to couple with the growth. Getting money for SF Gives hasn't exactly been like pulling teeth. SF Gives has landed 14 corporate backers including big companies like Google, Levi’s, LinkedIn, Zynga, Box, Jawbone, PopSugar, Dropbox, and, naturally, Salesforce. And he still hears  "yes" more than he hears "no". But, he definitely hears no, and about one-third of the time, Benioff told Steinberg: "We make three calls, we’re getting two yeses and one no. ... There’s a very famous CEO—I won’t give you his name—who told me, 'Our office is not in S.F., our factory is not in S.F., and we’re not going to do this. I said, 'Don’t you think you should give back anyway?' And he said, 'What have we been given?'" Interestingly, some of these CEOs may not be pushing back on the idea of giving, but of giving to an effort led by the flamboyant Benioff.  Some Valley insiders roll their eyes when he talks about charity. Defend The BayTwo years ago, when asking a billionaire startup CEO why his company didn't support the 1-1-1 model, he told us that he didn't agree with it. "I have my own foundation," he said. He thinks charitable giving should be a personal choice made by employees, not a corporate mandate. "It's up to them," he told us. Ironically, Google, the symbol for the city's gentrification problem, isn't in that camp. Google promptly contributed $1 million to SF Gives. Plus, through its own huge foundation, it has given nearly $60 million to Bay Area nonprofits in the past three years, it says. Every year it gives $100 million away in grants, along with 60,000 hours of volunteer time and $1 billion in products. Beyond the Valley, Google is also tackling some pretty heavy issues worldwide, too, like sex trafficking and child abuse. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Amir CohenAn Ibex stands on a cliff edge above the Ramon Crater in southern Israel's Negev desert.The markets exhibited very little volatility to round off the week. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
AP President Barack Obama on Thursday announced that 8 million people have enrolled in private health-insurance plans under the Affordable Care Act, using a press conference to largely attack Republicans who he said had been proven "wrong" on the issue. Obama said 35% of the sign-ups were under the age of 35, and that 28% of those who bought policies were in the crucial 18-to-34 age group, a lower number than insurers had hoped for but better than earlier reports. Obama also said premiums are anticipated to be 15% lower than expected. He criticized Republicans who he said "can’t bring themselves to admit that the Affordable Care Act is working," arguing that the GOP push to repeal Obamacare had come at the expense of productive conversations about creating jobs, improving the economy, and raising the minimum wage.  "The point is, the repeal debate is and should be over. The Affordable Care Act is working," Obama said in the White House briefing room. The final numbers exceeded the wildest early expectations. After a disastrous rollout of the law, projections were revised downward. Even at the end of February, it seemed unlikely the Obama administration would even hit the revised target of 6 million. By then, only 4.2 million people had signed up for insurance through the exchanges, and momentum appeared to be sagging. When he opened the press conference to questions from reporters, Obama was asked whether flaws in the health-care law could be improved. He said they could, but that it would be more difficult if Republicans maintained their opposition to Obamacare. "It is absolutely possible, but it will require a change in attitude on the part of the Republicans," he said.  Obama went on to denounce "certain" Republicans who believe making the Affordable Care Act "better" is "a concession to me." In that environment, Obama said it would be difficult to improve the law.  "I recognize that their party is going through the stages of grief — anger, denial, all that stuff," Obama said of Republicans. "We're not at acceptance yet."  He went on to predict that the GOP wouldn't change its tune until after the midterm elections in November. Brendan Buck, a spokesman for House Speaker John Boehner, blasted the White House for not releasing a full breakdown of the data, including the number of enrollees who have paid their first month's premium. "The White House continues to obscure the full impact of Obamacare. Beyond refusing to disclose the number of people who’ve actually enrolled by paying premiums, the president ignores the havoc that this law has wreaked on private plans that people already had and liked," Buck said in a statement. "Surveys have consistently shown that the overwhelming majority of those who signed up already had insurance. Had this law not led to millions of Americans receiving cancelation notices, many would not have had to sign up for this government-run program. What America really needs is a health care system that is more affordable, more accessible, and of the highest quality, and that’s what House Republicans are working toward." This post was updated at 4:31 p.m. ET. FREE AppDownload
Brown Harris StevensJon Stryker, a philanthropist and heir to a surgical and hospital supply fortune, has sold his duplex penthouse overlooking Central Park for $42 million, according to The Real Deal. Stryker originally listed the property back in October 2013 for $48 million. The identity of the buyer remains unknown. The 5,600-square-foot apartment is at the top of the Prásadá building on New York's 65th Street and Central Park West. Stryker originally paid $12.8 million for the two neighboring apartments back in 2002, which, at that time, was the most expensive apartment purchase in the history of the Upper West Side. The home, which was sold through real estate agent Brown Harris Stevens, has 12 rooms with plenty of windows, as well as two terraces that look out over the park. FREE AppDownload
It's Earnings Season, when America's biggest companies turn in their report card and count of the amount of money they did (or didn't make) in the first quarter of the year. While some big bank earnings left something to be desired this quarter, that didn't stop their lawyers from enjoying a hefty pay day, too.  This quarter, some banks paid out so much in litigation fees — including billable hours, court costs, and settlement payouts — that they actually erased their own profitability. The Wire broke down the legal costs of America's biggest banks, to see how much they cut into the bottom line. Via The Wire Coming in first place, by a mile, is Bank of America. They handed their legal team a hefty check this quarter, almost triple their $2.2 billion litigation costs from the same quarter last year. Bank of America's litigation fees came from a variety of pending legal issues: a $3.6 billion settlement tied to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and $2.4 billion to "previously disclosed legacy mortgage-related matters." The bank did not give a further breakdown, but their chief financial officer Bruce R. Thompson said: "I just don't think it's going to be productive to give a breakout." I wouldn't want to go through a $6,000,000,000 receipt either.  So did it hurt business? Not really, apparently. The bank's revenue was quite healthy and without legal bills, they could have turned a nice profit. “Higher litigation clearly blurred the progress we’ve made in improving our businesses,” said Thompson, “As we look at the company at end of first quarter in 2014, we feel we are in much better shape than we were in 2013.” Buy yourselves an island, BOA lawyers. You did well.  This is up 33 percent from the same time last year, when legal costs came in at $710 million.  Ironically, their legal costs rose because the bank is trying to implement more cost cutting measures. Some of the measures included eliminating five percent of compensation, equipment and benefits expenses. They also worked to cut costs at Citi Holding. This division holds "bad" assets and they were able to shrink losses this quarter. These cost cutting measures meant a lot of billable hours for their legal team, almost a billion dollars worth.  The legal team should be thrilled for the second quarter, too. Chief Financial Officer John Gerspach warns that legal costs “would remain elevated for the foreseeable future”.  Morgan Stanley did not release an exact figure, but is characterizing their litigation costs this quarter as "immaterial." The Wire spoke with the media team this morning after the earnings results were issued to confirm this immateriality. Holding true to their report, Morgan Stanley did confirm that costs were "much less than a billion." Last quarter, they posted $1.2 billion in legal expenses, a figure they deemed was material, so we know it's significantly less than that.  For a bank posting earnings of $1.5 billion this quarter, we can speculate that this quarter's litigation costs were in the low hundred millions, as anything more would be deemed material.  Just like Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan called their litigation fees "immaterial." While it can't be quantified exactly, we estimated what "immaterial" could mean based on prior spending. In first quarter of last year, their earnings were $6.53 billion, and their litigation costs came to $347 million. That's 5.3% of earnings. This quarter,earnings were $5.27 billion, of which 5.3% is 281 million dollars.  Keep in mind that materiality is relative. Just because ligation costs were five percent one quarter, and that was deemed "material," that does not make five percent the hurdle for materiality every quarter. We can estimate that litigation costs came in somewhere between zero and $281 million, and regardless of where in that range it falls, it is pocket change to a bank their size.  Only on Wall Street can up to $281 million be considered "immaterial."    This California bank is not reporting exact legal costs for the first quarter, as their report listed total operating losses as one figure. Investor relations confirmed that "operating losses" do include legal fees, and that number came to a lowly $159 million.  The low number does not come as much of a surprise, as last spring Wells announced that they are looking to spend less on outside legal counsel as part of a wider cost cutting program. Jim Strother, Senior Executive Vice President of the General Counsel Legal Group at Wells Fargo, said last year “We do expect to have a meaningful reduction in outside counsel expense.” It seems that the meaningful reduction was successful. To give you an example of how "little" that is, Wells paid $191 million in postage, stationery and supplies this year, so the legal team might want to start raiding the mailroom for their bonuses.  Goldman has cut legal expenses 80.3 percent, from the previous quarter's total of $561 million. While this is welcomed decrease, powerhouse Goldman Sachs has a history of low legal costs in the first quarter, coming in at $110 million last spring and $116 million in 2012. Compared to first quarter of 2013, they have increased litigation spending just 4.5%. However, their earnings this quarter, $2.03 billion, declined 10% from this time last year.  Good work staying on the right side of the law in the first quarter, Goldman Sachs. Your lawyers can't even put gas in their corporate plane. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidIllinois Attorney General Lisa Madigan is probing Herbalife, CNBC's Scott Wapner reported. Herbalife issued the following statement: "We have more than 15,000 members and many more thousands of satisfied customers in Illinois.  We will continue to provide the outstanding products and services that they have come to expect from Herbalife over the past three decades. We will always support the good work of our members" "We are confident in the integrity of our longstanding business and the Company's compliance with applicable laws and regulations. We look forward to working with the Illinois Attorney General’s office to resolve the consumer complaints it has received."  Herbalife is a multi-level marketing company that sells weight loss shakes and nutritional supplements. The stock fell about 2 percent following the news. It was last off about 0.5%. Herbalife has been at the cross-hairs of a nasty battle between hedge fund billionaires.  Bill Ackman, who runs Pershing Square, is shorting $1 billion worth of Herbalife. Ackman believes the company operates as a "pyramid scheme". He has a price target of $0. In other words, it's Ackman's contention that regulators, specifically the Federal Trade Commission, will shut the company down.  Ackman's arch-nemesis, billionaire investor Carl Icahn, snapped up a large position in the stock shortly after Ackman publicly revealed his short position. He owns 16.8% of Herbalife's shares. Last month, Herbalife confirmed last month that it's under investigation by the FTC. The Financial Times reported last Friday that the company was being probed by the DOJ and the FBI. The company said in statement that they had no knowledge of any ongoing investigation by the DOJ or the FBI.  The New York Post also reported this week that New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman's office is probing Herbalife.  FREE AppDownload
Some people believe that when you find the right person you just know. The rest of us could use a little help figuring out how to choose the right spouse. You can actually optimize your chances of marrying the best person using the solution to the famous Secretary Problem. This problem has many applications (including how to choose the best secretary), but this one is the most fun. Produced by Sara Silverstein and Sam Rega. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
ReutersYesterday, we wrote up a study from Aston University in Birmingham, England that broke down linguistic matches between 13 individuals "regularly referred to as candidates" and Satoshi Nakamoto, the apparently pseudonymous inventor of Bitcoin. Of the group, they narrowed it down to Nick Szabo, a writer and blogger. As we discussed in our article, these were not the first independent researchers to conclude Szabo is Satoshi. Yet Szabo has refuted the charge (albeit indirectly), and is not even seeking to avoid attention: Although he has not returned multiple emails and phone calls, he attended a Bitcoin conference at Princeton University in March. We emailed some of the professors who attended the conference to ask about their interactions with Szabo there. Many said they either did not encounter him, or if they did, only for a moment. Jeremy Clark is an assistant professor for  Information Systems Engineering at Concordia University in Montreal. He said he'd met Szabo for the first time there, and chatted with him during the dinner.  He also sent back the following critique of the Aston study, which we thought was worth posting: I think the recent evidence linking Nick to Satoshi is grossly insufficient. I buy that out of 13 people, his writing is the most similar. Actually, if you take 13 people, SOMEONE will always be the most close by definition. If you look at the common phrasing they found, you don't see anything that you wouldn't see in nearly any crypto paper on digital cash or time-stamping (and there are a ton). Further, I've seen nothing to indicate that Nick can write even one line of code, while Satoshi implemented a very complex peer-to-peer network, to say nothing of the cryptography involved. Nick also still maintains that his bit gold proposal is a better design than Bitcoin so I don't see why he'd propose one and deploy something different. I can't help but wonder if Linux was released under a pseudonym, would anyone guess that it was written by a Finnish masters student? Someone that was otherwise unknown? Of course not. Someone would compare the writing to Richard Stallman, Ken Thompson, Dennis Ritchie, and some super random patent holders, and declare Stallman the winner. Then Newsweek would find him at the end of his driveway, annoyed and in a crumpled t-shirt, chewing on something he pulled off his foot. :) UPDATE: Jack Grieve, the Aston University lecturer who led the study, has responded in an email (emphasis ours): ... to clarify, the task we took on was to compare the bitcoin paper to the writings of the top 11 candidates, as identified by the media. Nothing more than that, so it seems to me these criticism are irrelevant. We are not claiming that this set of authors is complete, we are not claiming Szabo is the definitely author of the bitcoin paper, and we are certainly not claiming that he necessarily wrote the bitcoin computer code or the various other texts attributed to Nakamoto. We are simply claiming that out of this specific group of 11 authors, that he is the best match for the bitcoin paper. I think most people who take the time to look at the data, especially given the features we have identified, would agree. Also, it is not the case that this process would always results in the identification of an author. For example, had Szabo not been in our dataset, we would not have claimed that any of the other authors match, as none of the other authors even come close.Also, the general information online about Szabo is that he has a degree in computer science from the University of Washington--although that may be incorrect. It turns out he was never a law professor, for example. Nevertheless, there is computer code included in some of Szabo's other papers, so the claim that he has never written a line of code is demonstrably false. That said, I think there is some evidence that he did not write the bitcoin computer code, even the small amount of code in the bitcoin paper, but again that simply isn't what we were investigating.One last thing that may be of interest to you: http://cypherpunks.venona.com/date/1993/10/msg00759.html Satoshi: If you'd like to respond, you know where to reach us. FREE AppDownload
WikimediaThomas J. Sargent Students from the class of 2014 have begun graduating. To mark the occasion, economist and blogger Craig Newmark and AEI's Mark Perry dug up a speech given by Nobel economist Thomas Sargent to graduates of Cal-Berkeley in 2007.  It's only 335 words long, but it's really great. It breaks down the 12 economic concepts that every graduate should know. Check it out: I remember how happy I felt when I graduated from Berkeley many years ago. But I thought the graduation speeches were long. I will economize on words. Economics is organized common sense. Here is a short list of valuable lessons that our beautiful subject teaches. 1. Many things that are desirable are not feasible. 2. Individuals and communities face trade-offs. 3. Other people have more information about their abilities, their efforts, and their preferences than you do. 4. Everyone responds to incentives, including people you want to help. That is why social safety nets don’t always end up working as intended. 5. There are tradeoffs between equality and efficiency. 6. In an equilibrium of a game or an economy, people are satisfied with their choices. That is why it is difficult for well-meaning outsiders to change things for better or worse. 7. In the future, you too will respond to incentives. That is why there are some promises that you’d like to make but can’t. No one will believe those promises because they know that later it will not be in your interest to deliver. The lesson here is this: before you make a promise, think about whether you will want to keep it if and when your circumstances change. This is how you earn a reputation. 8. Governments and voters respond to incentives too. That is why governments sometimes default on loans and other promises that they have made. 9. It is feasible for one generation to shift costs to subsequent ones. That is what national government debts and the U.S. social security system do (but not the social security system of Singapore). 10. When a government spends, its citizens eventually pay, either today or tomorrow, either through explicit taxes or implicit ones like inflation. 11. Most people want other people to pay for public goods and government transfers (especially transfers to themselves). 12. Because market prices aggregate traders’ information, it is difficult to forecast stock prices and interest rates and exchange rates. To learn more about Sargent, check out this NYT profile » FREE AppDownload
Water Pointe RealtyEver felt like living like a member of a dynasty? This Florida property, originally christened by a member of the Carnegie family, can give you that feeling for just $5 million, according to The Wall Street Journal. According to the listing, the home was built for the nephew of steel industry tycoon Andrew Carnegie in 1924. The four-bedroom river-front mansion sits on 22 acres, boasts 22-foot ceilings, a billiard room, ice cream parlor and its own private dock. This historic home is listed with Deb Duvall of Water Pointe Realty.  FREE AppDownload
Gallup job creation index hits new post-crisis high.   Gallup FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Denis BalibouseSecretary of State John F. Kerry Diplomats from the United States, Russia, Ukraine, and the European Union announced a preliminary deal Thursday that would provide a path to de-escalation of the Ukrainian crisis. U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry outlined the terms of the deal during a press conference in Geneva, Switzerland. All parties agreed that all sides refrain from violence. All illegal groups must be disarmed. All illegally seized buildings in eastern Ukraine must be returned to their legitimate owners. All illegally occupied streets and squares must be vacated. The deal also calls for amnesty to all protesters who have left their public places and surrendered their weapons, providing they are not accused of crimes. "None of us leave here with a sense that the job is done because these words are on the paper," Kerry said. "If we're not able to see immediate progress, we'll have no other choice than impose further costs on Russia." Kerry stressed the agreement is preliminary. He said he doesn't see it as a full de-escalation agreement. Both sides had interest in getting a preliminary deal. For the West, it served as a positive step toward de-escalation. For Russia, it buys time from further Western sanctions on the appearance they are cooperating. The announcement of the deal came on the same day Russian President Vladimir Putin ramped up his rhetoric, saying Russia has the right to intervene militarily in eastern Ukraine if its Russian-speaking population is at risk. Putin also admitted, for the first time, that Russia had deployed troops to Crimea ahead of the March referendum in which its citizens voted to join Russia. Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said the talks in Geneva had left him "hopeful" of a diplomatic solution.  FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesArt CashinWe're seeing increasing amounts of evidence to suggest that business spending activity is picking up. The most compelling evidence that many analysts are pointing to is the recent acceleration of commercial and industrial loans (C&amp;I) as reported by the Federal Reserve. "Why is lending increasing so fast in the US?" asked The Financialist's Jens Erik Gould. "There are two primary factors: a recovering economy and loose monetary policy meant to entice businesses to take on more debt." That first point is good news, but that second point raises a red flag for some. Since the financial crisis, the Federal Reserve has kept monetary policy very loose. Indeed, the Fed's balance sheet has ballooned from $1 trillion in 2007 to more than $4 trillion today as it bought up financial assets and flooded the economy with cash. However, much of that cash hasn't moved much. Specifically, borrowing and spending in the business world has been very low. And as a result, inflation has remained very low. Now, the anecdotes are pouring in to confirm the Fed's lending data. UBS's Art Cashin wrote about it this morning citing one bank's anecdote. He also issued a somewhat ominous warning (emphasis added): ...In a front page article this morning, the WSJ says that all may be changing.  They say banks are beginning to lend and business are beginning to borrow.  Here's a bit: The increase in commercial lending is helping big banks offset slack demand for mortgages and other types of consumer loans, which has weighed on overall lending numbers. The six banks posted 2.9% growth in overall lending in the first quarter. Andrew Cecere, chief financial officer of U.S. Bancorp, the fifth-largest U.S. lender by assets, said in an interview Wednesday the bank has seen increased demand for commercial loans from small businesses to midsize companies and large corporations. The Minneapolis bank posted a 9.7% increase in commercial loans outstanding in the quarter, to $113.8 billion, helping to drive a rise in first-quarter net income. "There's just a general higher level of interest in loan activity and lines of credit," he said. The implications of this are potentially huge – to the economy; to the stock market; to Fed policy; and perhaps, most importantly, to inflation.  In a fractional banking system, money gets velocity when it's lent.  High velocity risks hyperinflation.  We'll discuss more fully next week. Cashin has long warned that an increase in the velocity of money could quickly turn hyperinflationary. While he may sound extreme, he's not the only person warning about the perils of increased lending activity on the back of a mountain of loose money. "Over the past 15 weeks there has been a sharp acceleration in bank lending, which is now growing at an 8.6% annual rate, and could suggest animal spirits are reviving," noted Charles Schwab's Liz Ann Sonders. "But it does mean we need to keep an eye on the velocity of money to gauge the risk of an inflation scare." We'll surely hear more about this. Business Insider, Liz Ann Sonders FREE AppDownload
Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg)Returns of various equity indices so far in the month of April. Stocks have had a rough go of it so far this month. The Russell 2000, an index of small-cap stocks, and the Nasdaq, an index largely comprised of tech stocks, are down 3.5% and 2.7%, respectively, since March 31. The MSCI All Country World Index excluding U.S. stocks and the S&amp;P 500 haven't given up as much ground, but are both negative on the month as well. Despite the sell-off, however, equities as an asset class remain the most popular destination for investment flows, as the chart below illustrates. "Flow into equity ETFs is still pretty robust," says David Keeble, global head of interest rates strategy at Crédit Agricole. "Indeed, the $10 billion month-to-date equity inflow compares to a 12-month inflow of approximately $154 billion, so there really isn't any evidence of slowing purchases." Crédit Agricole, Bloomberg The next chart shows which stocks are receiving the inflows. "What is new is that there are now small outflows from small-caps, something that is clearly impacting indices like the Nasdaq and Russell 2000," says Keeble. "Over the past 12 months, there has been a continual flow into international equity ETFs, and to a lesser extent large-cap American funds, and this has persisted in April, so far." Of course, flows typically follow performance, so there could be more outflows ahead. However, if the turn up in equity indices over the last few days sticks, outflows from stocks could be somewhat muted. Crédit Agricole, Bloomberg FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsIn this post-crisis era, it’s easy to cringe at the notion of easing lending standards. After all, lax underwriting is what sparked the financial meltdown in the first place. With short-term lending to businesses growing sharply, then, the question is the obvious one: Is that increase the result of a risky decrease in standards? Or is it about something a little more encouraging? There’s a strong case to be made for the latter. First, the short history. Business credit in the U.S. plummeted in 2009 as banks saddled with nonperforming loans recoiled at any hint of risk and tightened their lending conditions dramatically. It spent 2011 to 2013 meandering down a path of tentative recovery. And then, in the first quarter of 2014, it took its first truly confident step forward in years. Total commercial and industrial (C&amp;I) loans outstanding jumped by 3.9 percent between January 15 and March 5, bringing the total to a record high of $1.7 trillion in early March. The market for non-financial commercial paper (basically, short-term promissory notes) has more than recovered from its post-Lehman plunge, when it dropped from $224 billion in January 2009 to $101 billion that December. It sat at $262 billion at the end of the first quarter—a 13-year high. Why is lending increasing so fast in the US? There are two primary factors: a recovering economy and loose monetary policy meant to entice businesses to take on more debt. What’s more, says Credit Suisse, investor demand for commercial paper is on the rise in the context of declining Treasury bill issuance resulting from smaller budget deficits. Bills accounted for just 13.4 percent of total Treasury debt outstanding in February, down from 15.4 percent the previous year. Regulators are telling banks to learn from recent history and avoid taking on dangerously risky assets again. And although financial institutions have been incrementally easing some lending terms over the past four years as competition for commercial loans increases, they’ve done so by decreasing spreads on C&amp;I loan rates, relying less on interest rate floors and lowering the cost of credit lines, according to the Federal Reserve’s Senior Loan Officer survey released in February. Banks have eased credit for large firms in 16 of the past 17 quarters, and for small firms in over 14 of the past 15 quarters, the report said. “Nearly every quarter since early 2010, banks have signaled that they’re more willing to make C&amp;I loans,” Credit Suisse economist Dana Saporta said in an interview. But there’s little cause for concern about that easing, Saporta and fellow economist Neal Soss write in a report entitled, “Catching Up with Business Credit Growth.” For one, businesses have been clamoring for credit in part because they’ve needed to finance a buildup of inventory from the fourth quarter. As firms either sell their extra goods or liquidate them, the drawdown will lower demand for financing. What’s more, just because banks have eased lending standards since their extreme tightening in 2008 and 2009 doesn’t mean they’ve gone back to their excessively loose pre-recession practices, Credit Suisse says. While there’s no single data point of “credit quality” to which one can point, anecdotal evidence suggests banks are being more careful. For their part, regulators have not identified any major red flags regarding imprudent risk taking. “If we had evidence that banks were compromising their standards in order to gain market share, that would be a concern. But we don’t have that evidence right now,” Saporta says. “It would be a mistake to conclude that credit conditions today are similar to those in early 2006.” More than anything, the increase in business loans is positive because it’s a sign the credit crunch is fading and the economy is improving. Increased lending means large corporations are obtaining the credit they need to run day-to-day operations, hold inventories and perhaps even finance new projects. This would point to potential future hiring increases if companies are seeking financing to expand capacity, which would in turn require more labor. “The recent loosening is moving us away from the severe risk aversion we saw in the Great Recession and towards a more normal lending environment,” Saporta says. “Credit-worthy borrowers are finding it easier to get access to credit, and that’s a good thing.” FREE AppDownload
KMOV screenshotDarryl WoodsDarryl Woods, the former chief financial officer of a small Missouri bank, has been barred from working in the banking sector by the Federal Reserve after using federal bailout funds to buy a condo in Florida. Woods has been issued with a Consent Order of Prohibition related to his use of Troubled Asset Relief (TARP) funds, the Federal Reserve said in a release. He agreed to that consent order.  What a Consent Order of Prohibition means is that Woods is barred from working in the banking sector moving forward. This is separate from the criminal charges he has faced.  Last August, Woods, 48, pleaded guilty to misleading federal investigators of how he used TARP funds his bank received. Woods was the CFO/chairman of Mainstreet Bank and the bank's holding company Calvert Financial Corporation when he applied for TARP funds in November 2008. In January 2009, his bank received $1,037,000 in bailout funds. The following month, he used $381,487 of that money to buy a waterfront condo in Fort Meyers, Florida. He won't serve federal prison time for using tax dollars to buy a condo, though.  Last month, he was sentenced 8 months in a halfway house followed by four months house arrest and one year of supervised probation for the Class A Misdemeanor charge, ABC 17 reported.  He sold the condo in 2013, ABC17 reported.   Here's a shot of the condo building:  KMOV screenshot FREE AppDownload
KMOV screenshotDarryl WoodsDarryl Woods, the former chief financial officer of a small Missouri bank, has been barred from working in the banking sector by the Federal Reserve after using federal bailout funds to buy a condo in Florida. Woods has been issued with a Consent Order of Prohibition related to his use of Troubled Asset Relief (TARP) funds, the Federal Reserve said in a release. He agreed to that consent order.  What a Consent Order of Prohibition means is that Woods is barred from working in the banking sector moving forward. This is separate from the criminal charges he has faced.  Last August, Woods, 48, pleaded guilty to misleading federal investigators of how he used TARP funds his bank received. Woods was the CFO/chairman of Mainstreet Bank and the bank's holding company Calvert Financial Corporation when he applied for TARP funds in November 2008. In January 2009, his bank received $1,037,000 in bailout funds. The following month, he used $381,487 of that money to buy a waterfront condo in Fort Meyers, Florida. He won't serve federal prison time for using tax dollars to buy a condo, though.  Last month, he was sentenced 8 months in a halfway house followed by four months house arrest and one year of supervised probation for the Class A Misdemeanor charge, ABC 17 reported.  He sold the condo in 2013, ABC17 reported.   Here's a shot of the condo building:  KMOV screenshot FREE AppDownload
For those that think we could be range-bound between 1800 and 1900 in the SPX until there is some sort of catalyst to break us out in either direction (as I do), it may make sense to take a slightly more tactical approach to your trading/investing. What does tactical mean? Well, in a fairly well defined range that we are in at the moment, identify your core positions, be nimble on those with less conviction, look to add yield with overwrites, add protection when stocks look extended or vulnerable, and leverage at the low end of the range when sentiment seems to get a bit dire and stocks oversold. With that overall strategy, the next decision is name selection. We broadly think that the growth leaders that have been beaten to a pulp will take many weeks or months to heal from here, so they’re certainly in the camp where rallies are likely a sale. On the other hand, there are some value stocks that have been neglected over the past couple years that could look interesting for bounce plays if the right setup presents itself. With the whippy price action, and cheap implied volatility, we generally like spread structures that minimize decay to take advantage of directional moves back and forth. 2014 has ushered in a choppier era compared to the slow, grinding markets of 2012 and 2013. This article originally appeared at Risk Reversal .  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Philadelphia FedThe results of the Philadelphia Fed's April Business Outlook Survey are out. The report's headline index of manufacturing conditions in eastern Pennsylvania, southern New Jersey, and Delaware advanced to 16.6 this month from March's 9.0 reading, well ahead of economists' consensus forecast for a smaller rise to 10.0. The table at right shows changes in various sub-indices of the report. Below is the full text of the press release: Manufacturing activity in the region increased in April, according to firms responding to this month’s Business Outlook Survey. The survey’s broadest indicators for general activity, new orders, shipments, and employment all remained positive and increased from their readings in March. Price pressures remain modest. The survey’s indicators of future activity reflected optimism about continued expansion over the next six months, although the indicators have fallen from higher readings in recent months. The survey’s broadest measure of manufacturing conditions, the diffusion index of current activity, increased from a reading of 9.0 in March to 16.6 this month, its highest reading since last September (see Chart). The index has now increased for two consecutive months, following the weather-influenced negative reading in February. The new orders and current shipments indexes also moved higher this month, increasing 9 points and 17 points, respectively. Indicators suggest slightly improved labor market conditions this month. The employment index remained positive for the 10th consecutive month and increased 5 points, suggesting overall improvement. The percentage of firms reporting increases in employment (20 percent) edged out the percentage reporting decreases (13 percent). The workweek index was also positive for the second consecutive month, edging 2 points higher. The survey’s price diffusion indexes continue to suggest overall moderate rates of increase. The prices received index was unchanged at 4.3. Nearly 76 percent of the firms reported no change in their final goods prices, and the percentage of firms reporting increases (13 percent) was only slightly greater than the percentage reporting decreases (9 percent). The prices paid index edged slightly lower, to 11.3, its third consecutive month of decline. Seventeen percent of the firms reported higher input prices, down from 19 percent in March. Firms remain optimistic about the growth of overall manufacturing activity for the next six months. The future general activity index remained positive; however, the index decreased nearly 9 points from its reading in March (see Chart). Indexes for future new orders and shipments also edged lower. The future new orders index decreased 3 points, while the future shipments index decreased 8 points. Firms’ responses about future employment continued to reflect overall confidence about future conditions. The percentage of firms expecting employment growth (27 percent) was greater than the percentage expecting employment declines (11 percent). The index, however, decreased 13 points, exactly reversing a 13-point increase in March. In special questions this month, firms were asked about regional factors influencing their location decisions (see Special Questions). Firms were also asked to rank, by relevance, each factor influencing their decision to remain in the region. According to the firms’ responses, the three most reported factors influencing the decision were (1) the availability of skilled labor; (2) the cost of labor; and (3) taxes, subsidies, and regulation. About 30 percent of the firms responding indicated that the cost of energy and the proximity to customers and distribution channels were also very or most relevant. The three most reported categories above, plus the cost of energy, were also reported to have become more important than other factors in recent years (Question 2). The April Business Outlook Survey suggests that activity in the region’s manufacturing sector continued on a path of growth this month. Firms reported increases in overall activity, new orders, shipments, and employment this month. Price pressures remained moderate. The survey’s future activity indexes, on balance, indicate that firms expect continued growth and employment increases over the next six months. FREE AppDownload
AP PhotoThere's only one bank that's come out publicly against high frequency trading, and that's Goldman Sachs. It's not an easy thing to do. Banks work with high frequency trading firms to execute orders, they also have their own dark pools — private, anonymous exchanges that have become a part of the new market ecosystem synonymous with HFT. Goldman's dark pool is called Sigma X. So why would a bank take on HFT? Because Goldman bank believes it's hurting their equities trading business, which has been on the decline for some time now. And as the WSJ's Justin Baer and Scott Patterson point out, the bank would rather have a healthy stock trading business that can make it billions of dollars than a dark pool that only brings in hundreds of millions of dollars. Thursday morning's first quarter earnings numbers say it all. Goldman is losing stock trading share to its rivals. In Q1 2014, the bank made $416 million trading equities for clients. That's down 49% from the same time in 2013 when the bank made $809 million. In 2013, a year when the price of stocks exploded, Goldman's client stock trading revenue fell from $3.2 billion in 2012 to $2.6 billion. Arch rival Morgan Stanley, on the other hand, has seen it's equity sales and trading rise 16% over the last year, and 24% over the last quarter. Obviously for the biggest baddest bank on Wall Street, this is worrisome. The bank is not only losing market share in equity sales, but also its dark pool has lost its share of the market as rivals from Barclays, Deutsche Bank and Morgan Stanley have entered the market. So once big institutional clients — the mutual funds and hedge funds that HFT firms love to pick off when they notice the institutionals' big block trades in the market — started complaining about HFT, Goldman knew it was time to change their strategy. Patterson and Baer reported that at a meeting in London several weeks ago, Goldman's institutional clients voiced concerns that are now familiar thanks to Michael Lewis' book, 'Flash Boys'.  They said that they felt HFT firms were given an unfair advantage and that the market was too opaque, complicated and dangerous. That's when Goldman started sending around internal memos asking for commentary on market structure, and COO Gary Cohn wrote the anti-HFT op-ed that shocked people across the Street. In the op-ed, he mentions one more issue that has Goldman worried about HFT. The bank is known for having some of the best technology in finance, but last August a glitch in its software sent erroneous quotes into the market and cost the bank $100 million. And Goldman doesn't lose $100 million. From Cohn's op-ed: The economic model of the exchanges, as shaped by regulation, is oriented around market volume. Volume generates price discovery and liquidity, which are clearly beneficial. But the industry must recognize how certain activities related to volume can place stress on a market infrastructure ill-equipped to deal with it. In other words, exchange software is now so complicated that it is not something a firm can do as a side show — it has to be the main event.  FREE AppDownload
Sergei Grits/AP“De-escalation” these days seems to be the most widely used word in international politics but concurrently the hardest to realize. It appears to mean different things to different parties to the Ukraine crisis. Possible scenarios depend on the interpretation of what de-escalation really means, say most experts. The West wants Russia to de-escalate what it sees as its encouragement of disturbances in the largely ethnic Russian and Russian-speaking eastern Ukraine. To Russia these disturbances are a popular reaction to the escalation of nationalist and anti-Russian rhetoric in Kyiv, which is beginning to translate into forceful suppression of what Moscow sees as the legitimate rights of the local population. So de-escalation, as President Putin told Chancellor Merkel over the phone, amounts to talks to return the situation to one of peaceful cooperation. But Kyiv is caught between far too many influences from all sides, says Vladimir Zharikhin, deputy director of the Institute for the Commonwealth of Independent States. “If the decisions were down just to the acting president Turchynov and acting Prime Minister Yatsenyuk, it would be easier to offer possible scenarios of future developments. But they are under pressure from Washington, Brussels, Moscow and even Maidan. It’s not easy to move in any direction in such circumstances.” The thrust right now appears to be to suppress the unrest in the East, says Zharikhin. But this will only drive it underground. And if it turns into bloodshed, Russia will have no choice but to intervene. This is an ‘outlier’ scenario, according to Steven Eke, a senior analyst with Control Risks, a leading consultancy in the field of international security. A full-scale Russian military invasion of eastern Ukraine, he says would result in a civil conflict that might tear the country apart and would probably require international intervention to resolve. However, Dmitry Trenin, director of the Moscow Centre of Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, believes that “at the moment, Russia does not have to and probably does not intend to move its military forces into south-eastern Ukraine.” Moscow, he says, “puts Kyiv in front of an unpalatable dilemma: to use force, and possibly precipitate the country’s break-up, or to passively watch the proliferation of self-styled “people’s republics” and lose control of the south-east.” This worries the West as much as, if probably not more than, Kyiv. “As it is, Ukraine and the West have ceded Crimea to Russia”, writes Judy Dempsey, editor-in-chief of the Strategic Europe publication. “With Crimea signed away, the West has to find ways to defend the rest of Ukraine.” Vladimir Zharikhin has a feeling that the authorities in Kyiv are “crossing the Rubicon between negotiation and force under pressure from the West and Maidan, since they understand the dangers and futility of such action.” Hence, he says, now we are seeing a demonstration of force rather than the use of force. Probably this show of force is just a ruse to derail the Geneva talks on Thursday between Russia, the U.S., the EU and Ukraine, says Zharikhin. He is not sure that the outcome of the talks would suit Kyiv’s interest. The expectation is, as John Lough, Associate Fellow, Russia and Eurasia Program at Chatham House puts it, that “at the Geneva talks, Russia is likely to push for a timetable for rapid constitutional reform, arguing that there is no alternative given the chaos engulfing the eastern regions. But the government in Kyiv and Western countries might not agree to Moscow’s proposals.” The EU Observer reports that the European Commission has almost completed work on what the EU calls "tier three" sanctions – designed to hurt the Russian energy, financial, and arms sectors. French FM Laurent Fabius said EU leaders might call a summit next week to implement the measures if the Geneva talks fail. However Vladimir Zharikhin is skeptical about the likelihood of really biting sanctions. “The current EU leadership is on the way out”, he says. Indeed, Britain's William Hague indicated the EU is still undecided on what would trigger the introduction of new sanctions. "The situation can develop in many ways, so it [the trigger] is not laid down in any detailed way," he told journalists. Dmitry Trenin of the Carnegie Moscow Center believes there is still a chance to prevent a messy multi-sided civil war. This chance can only be used, however, when parties inside and outside Ukraine rise to their responsibilities. Americans, Europeans, Russians, and Ukrainians themselves need to jointly discuss urgent economic steps in finance, energy, and trade, linked to a constitutional framework which would provide for a sort of balance within Ukraine and in its international relations and affiliations. A failure to come together on this issue would turn Ukraine into a failed state or a battleground in a new confrontation.” The most probable scenario, according to Steven Eke of Control Risks, is that Ukraine remains an unstable country into the longer term, with a pro-EU/Western president and government coming to power after 25 May. Russia does not invade eastern Ukraine, but relations with Moscow remain troubled, and subject in particular to trade and other economic restrictions/sanctions. Economic growth is slow, with the economy troubled by a large foreign debt and poor levels of foreign direct investment. Social divisions, including ethnic, religious and linguistic fissures, continue to undermine the integrity of the state. As a credible alternative, the coming to power of a pro-Russian administration could actually lead to greater long-term stability by removing the immediate cause of destabilization in the east. However, this would represent a ‘fudge’ and remove any impetus for cleaning up the business environment or tackling corruption. In this less likely scenario, Ukraine would maintain close economic links with Russia, while preserving the more viable of its economic ties with the EU. This article originally appeared at Russia Beyond The Headlines.  Copyright 2014. Follow Russia Beyond The Headlines on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA Google logo is seen at the entrance to the company's offices in Toronto(Reuters) - Google Inc's disappointing first-quarter results left Wall Street unfazed about the internet giant's ability to come to grips with a shift to the fast-growing mobile advertising market. Google shares were down 2 percent in premarket trading on Thursday and at least 12 brokerages cut their target price on the stock. But most analysts kept their "buy" rating on the stock. "Despite an expectations-miss quarter, Google remains one of the best-positioned stocks for many of the secular growth drivers in the Internet space," RBC Capital analyst Mark Mahaney, who kept his "outperform" rating on the stock, said in a note to clients. Of the 46 analysts covering Google, 35 have a "buy" or equivalent rating on the stock. Nobody has a "sell". Google, Facebook Inc and Twitter Inc are revamping their products and advertising business to try to take advantage of a global shift to mobile phones and tablets. Advertising rates on mobile phones are typically cheaper than traditional online ads because of their smaller screens. But mobile advertising continues to make up a bigger slice of the revenue of Internet companies. Goldman Sachs, which has a "neutral" rating on Google's shares, said it expects the stock to remain range-bound in the near-term as the market waits for mobile cost-per-click rates to improve. The company reported a 26 percent increase in paid clicks volumes but the average cost-per-click declined 9 percent. "Google remains a core internet holding and we reiterate our "overweight" rating," Morgan Stanley said in a note titled, "Keep calm and search on". Deutsche Bank analyst Ross Sandler cut his target price on Google by 6 percent to $625, but said he continued to view Google as a "top idea and a safe-haven" during times of high volatility in the consumer internet market. (Additional reporting by Soham Chatterjee; Editing by Saumyadeb Chakrabarty) FREE AppDownload
TBIThe Department of Labor just published its latest tally of initial unemployment insurance claims. Claims climbed to just 304,000, which was below the 315,000 forecasted by economists. Last week's number was revised up to 302,000 from 300,000. "There were no special factors impacting this week's initial claims," said the DoL. This all brings the four-week moving average down to 312,000 from 316,750.. "This is the lowest level for this average since October 6, 2007 when it was 302,000," they noted. "The lower claims reading during the April nonfarm payroll survey week suggests that labor markets should continue to strengthen during the month, with last month’s survey period claims reading coming in at a much higher 330K," said TD Securities Gennadiy Goldberg. "A similarly important development is this week’s 4 week moving average hitting a cycle low of 312K, suggesting sustained improvement in labor market dynamics and hinting at an April nonfarm payroll reading in the 175K-225K region. Continuing claims slipped to 2.739 million from 2.750 million a week ago. "We continue to note that the ongoing improvement in continuing claims remains encouraging amid more positive labor market dynamics, suggesting that workers are not simply leaving the labor force but likely finding gainful employment," said Goldberg.   Department of Labor FREE AppDownload
Business school requires a huge investment of time and money. But does it pay off?   For this analysis we considered top-tier schools to be those ranked in the top 10 U.S. programs by any of the following organizations: U.S. News, Bloomberg, or The Economist. Salary and break-even data is based on information collected by Forbes. Produced by Sara Silverstein. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
inazakira/flickrChipotle Mexican Grill just announced that its first-quarter sales beat expectations, but food inflation is pressuring profit margins. "Food costs were 34.5% of revenue, an increase of 150 basis points driven by higher commodity costs," Chipotle management said. "Higher commodity costs were primarily driven by inflationary pressures in beef, avocados, and cheese prices." Earnings per share climbed 7.8% to $2.64, below expectations of $2.87. While inflation has generally remained low in the U.S., food prices have been notably hotter. "Prices for foods, feeds, and beverages rose 3.7% in March, the largest monthly gain for the index since a 4.3% increase in March 2011," said the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics earlier this month. "The March 2014 advance was driven by a 14.0% rise in fruit prices, the largest one-month increase for that index since the index was first published monthly in December 1993." Morgan StanleyAvocado prices have seen violent swings in recent years.Prices for individual food items such as avocados can be quite volatile as issues like weather can be unpredictable. The good news for customers is that companies such as Chipotle are absorbing much of these rising costs. During the first quarter, Chipotle's comparable-store sales jumped 13.4%, beating expectations for 8.8% growth. "We are delighted that more and more people are choosing to visit our restaurants every day allowing us to deliver double-digit comps during the quarter," said co-CEO Steve Ells. "We are confident that our special food culture will continue to attract more customers to visit Chipotle as customers better understand and connect how natural and high quality ingredients that are freshly prepared result in better tasting food." Management forecasts high single-digit comparable-store sales growth for the year. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA man looks over the Affordable Care Act signup page on the HealthCare.gov website in New York in this photo illustration(Reuters) - UnitedHealth Group Inc &lt;UNH.N&gt;, the largest U.S. health insurer, said on Thursday that first-quarter profit fell on costs and taxes related to the national healthcare reform law as well as government cuts to private Medicare funding. The company said the Affordable Care Act related-costs and the effects of budget sequestration last year on payments from the government negatively affected earnings by about 35 cents per share. Its Optum technology-related division, which has had a role in building the exchanges created by that reform law, continued to grow. The company's quarterly results slightly beat analyst expectations. UnitedHealth said net profit was $1.1 billion, or about $1.10 per share, compared with $1.2 billion, or $1.16 per share a year earlier. Analysts had expected first quarter profit of $1.09 per share, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. UnitedHealth stuck by its previous forecast for 2014 earnings of $5.40 to $5.60 per share and said it sees revenue growth of about 5 percent to $128 billion to $129 billion. The company, which provides commercial healthcare plans, private Medicare for older people and the disabled, Medicaid, and military health plans, had 44.67 million medical members at the end of the quarter, down from 45.45 million at the end of 2013. (Reporting by Caroline Humer, Editing by Franklin Paul and Sofina Mirza-Reid) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidTrader Richard Deviccaro of Morgan Stanley works on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange on Oct. 31, 2011. There are two market-wide trends plaguing the big banks on Wall Street: one, declining mortgage activity, and, two, tumbling fixed-income trading activity. But Morgan Stanley bucked that latter trend by reporting a jump in fixed-income and commodities trading revenue. "Fixed Income and commodities sales and trading net revenues of $1.7 billion increased from $1.5 billion a year ago," management said in its earnings announcement. "Results reflect strong performance in commodities and solid results in credit and securitized products, despite lower volumes across most fixed income businesses." Just last week, competitor JP Morgan reported a 21% drop in fixed-income trading revenue. Whatever Morgan Stanley is doing, it's doing it well. The stock is up 4% in pre-market trading. Morgan Stanley FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/StringerCustoms officers look at confiscated counterfeit FIFA World Cup replica trophies in Yiwu, Zhejiang province April 16, 2014. The local customs office seized a total of 1,020 unauthorized FIFA World Cup replica trophies before they were shipped out to Libya, local media reported. Good morning. Here's what you need to know. Markets down a little. Markets are fairly subdued ahead of the Easter holiday. U.S. stock futures point to a slightly negative open, while U.S. Treasury note futures are poised to open slightly positive. The U.S. dollar is down a bit against the Japanese yen, and moreso against the euro. European equity indices are in the red, with Italy's FTSE MIB and Spain's IBEX 35 down the most, both currently 0.4% below Wednesday's closing levels. Morgan Stanley earnings. Morgan Stanley reported adjusted earnings of $0.68 per share in the quarter ended March 31, above analysts' consensus estimate of $0.60. Revenues were $8.8 billion, above the consensus $8.57 billion estimate. Revenue increased year over year in its three main business segments — institutional securities, wealth management, and investment management. "We are pleased that this year we will commence a further share repurchase of up to $1 billion and double our dividend," said James Gorman, the bank's chairman and CEO, in a press release. Goldman Sachs earnings. The Goldman Sachs Group also announces quarterly financial results this morning before the opening bell. Analysts expect the investment bank to report earnings of $3.45 per share on revenues of $8.7 billion, implying a 13.8% drop in sales from the same quarter last year. Shares are drifting higher in pre-market trading following the announcement of Morgan Stanley earnings. Tech earnings. Google reported earnings of $6.27 per share in the quarter ended March 31, below analysts' consensus estimate of $6.44. Revenues also came in light at $15.4 billion, below the consensus $15.54 billion estimate. The search giant's cost-per-click, the average price it charges advertisers, declined about 9%. Shares are lower in pre-market trading, but are still a bit above Tuesday's closing levels. IBM reported earnings per share of $2.54, right in line with the consensus estimate, but revenues were light at $22.5 billion, below the consensus $22.94 billion estimate. Shares are lower in pre-market trading. Other earnings. General Electric reported earnings of $0.33 per share in the quarter ended March 31, above analysts' consensus estimate of $0.32. Revenues were $34.2 billion, below the consensus $34.36 billion estimate and down about 2% from the same quarter last year. PepsiCo reported earnings of $0.83 per share, above the consensus estimate of $0.75. Revenues were $12.6 billion, also above the consensus $12.4 billion estimate and up 0.3% from the same quarter a year earlier. Shares of both companies are higher in pre-market trading. Initial claims. Weekly U.S. jobless claims data are due out at 8:30 AM ET. Economists predict 315,000 people filed initial claims for unemployment insurance in the week ended April 12, up from a post-crisis low of 300,000 in the previous week. Continuing claims are expected to have ticked up to 2.78 million in the week ended April 5 from 2.776 million the week before. "Today’s jobless claims release would be from the reference week for nonfarm payrolls, so it carries slightly more prominence than releases from other weeks," say Richard Cochinos and Bryan Zarnett, currency strategists at Citi. Philly Fed manufacturing. Out at 10 AM is the Philadelphia Fed's latest monthly Business Outlook Survey. The report's headline index is expected to advance to 10 from last month's 9 reading, indicative of a pickup in the pace of improvement of business conditions for regional manufacturers. The index is a favorite of Goldman Sachs chief economist Jan Hatzius, who says that more than any other indicator, it contains "a statistically significant and economically meaningful amount of information for growth." TIPS auction. The U.S. Treasury will auction $18 billion of 5-year Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities at 11:30 AM. "Even with the richening in breakevens on Wednesday, we expect the 5-year auction to receive decent demand," say interest rate strategists at Nomura. "The concession has been on curve, rather than outright, with 5-year inflation still at very depressed levels versus 2-year and 10-year inflation. Technicals are favorable given decent month-end extension, investor sponsorship for short-end TIPS funds holding up, and the likely emergence of central bank interest in this paper. All told, we still see short-end (i.e., 5-year and under) inflation exposure as one of the few attractive carry trades remaining for the near term. If the 11:30 AM auction time (given the shortened week in the U.S.) produces a tail, that'll be a Dutch treat ahead of the long weekend, in our view." Kuroda speech. Bank of Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said in a speech on Thursday that he saw no need for additional monetary stimulus at the moment, despite the recent sales tax hike that has raised fears of a slowdown in the Japanese economy. "We will adjust policy when needed while scrutinizing both upside and downside risks to the economy and prices," he reiterated. Japan flows. Japanese investors purchased ¥115.5 billion of foreign bonds in the week ended April 11 after selling ¥378.1 billion in the previous week. They also sold ¥33.3 billion of foreign stocks after purchasing ¥94.7 billion the week before. Investors outside of Japan bought ¥360.3 billion of Japanese bonds after purchasing only ¥21.9 billion in the previous week. Foreign investors also unloaded ¥83.5 billion of Japanese stocks after buying ¥223.1 billion the week before. "After having a voracious appetite last year for Japanese shares, foreign investor demand has cooled considerably and thus far this year, foreign investors have been net sellers," says Marc Chandler, global head of currency strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman. *** Below is a submission to our quarterly "Most Important Charts In The World" presentation from Jens Nordvig, global head of currency strategy at Nomura. If you haven't seen the other 123 charts yet, click here to check them out » Business Insider/Matthew Boesler FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonInvestment banking giant Goldman Sachs posted a big beat for its first quarter earnings results.  The bank reported EPS of $4.02 versus consensus analyst estimates of $3.48. Revenue came in at $9.33 versus expectations of $8.66 billion. The stock was last trading up about 2% in the pre-market.  “We are generally pleased with our performance for the quarter given the operating environment,” Goldman CEO Lloyd Blankfein said in a statement. "Investment Banking and Investment Management generated solid results, while market sentiment shifted throughout the quarter, constraining client activity in various parts of our franchise. Our collection of businesses gives the firm significant room for growth as economic conditions broadly improve and we continue to remain focused on prudently managing our capital and cost structure," Blankfein continued.  The bank said in its earnings release that net revenues in Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Client Execution were $2.85 billion, 11% lower than the first quarter of 2013. The firm also said net revenues in Equities were $1.60 billion, 17% lower than the first quarter of 2013. Here's an excerpt from the release:  The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (GS) today reported net revenues of $9.33 billion and net earnings of $2.03 billion for the first quarter ended March 31, 2014. Diluted earnings per common share were $4.02 compared with $4.29 for the first quarter of 2013 and $4.60 for the fourth quarter of 2013. Annualized return on average common shareholders’ equity (ROE) (1) was 10.9% for the first quarter of 2014. Highlights _____________ “We are generally pleased with our performance for the quarter given the operating environment,” said Lloyd C. Blankfein, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. “Investment Banking and Investment Management generated solid results, while market sentiment shifted throughout the quarter, constraining client activity in various parts of our franchise. Our collection of businesses gives the firm significant room for growth as economic conditions broadly improve and we continue to remain focused on prudently managing our capital and cost structure.” Net Revenues Investment Banking Net revenues in Investment Banking were $1.78 billion for the first quarter of 2014, 13% higher than the first quarter of 2013 and 4% higher than the fourth quarter of 2013. Net revenues in Financial Advisory were $682 million, 41% higher than the first quarter of 2013, primarily reflecting an increase in client activity in Europe. Net revenues in Underwriting were $1.10 billion, essentially unchanged compared with the first quarter of 2013. Net revenues in equity underwriting were higher compared with the first quarter of 2013, reflecting higher net revenues from private placements and initial public offerings. Net revenues in debt underwriting were slightly lower compared with the first quarter of 2013, due to significantly lower net revenues from commercial mortgage-related activity compared with a strong first quarter of 2013, partially offset by higher net revenues from investment-grade activity. The firm’s investment banking transaction backlog decreased compared with the end of 2013. (7) Institutional Client Services Net revenues in Institutional Client Services were $4.45 billion for the first quarter of 2014, 13% lower than the first quarter of 2013 and 31% higher than the fourth quarter of 2013. Net revenues in Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Client Execution were $2.85 billion, 11% lower than the first quarter of 2013, reflecting significantly lower net revenues in interest rate products, currencies and mortgages, as well as lower net revenues in credit products. These results were partially offset by significantly higher net revenues in commodities compared with the first quarter of 2013. During the quarter, market-making conditions generally improved compared with the fourth quarter of 2013. However, Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Client Execution continued to operate in a challenging environment and levels of activity generally remained low. Net revenues in Equities were $1.60 billion, 17% lower than the first quarter of 2013. Excluding net revenues related to the firm’s Americas reinsurance business (8), which was sold in the second quarter of 2013, net revenues in Equities were 6% lower than the first quarter of 2013. Net revenues in equities client execution were significantly lower compared with the same prior year period, primarily reflecting the sale of the firm’s Americas reinsurance business. In addition, net revenues were significantly lower in both derivatives and, to a lesser extent, cash products. Commissions and fees were slightly higher compared with the first quarter of 2013, primarily reflecting an increase in European equity volumes. Securities services net revenues were higher compared with the first quarter of 2013, reflecting growth in customer balances. During the quarter, Equities experienced challenging market-making conditions, particularly in Japan and certain emerging markets as equity prices declined. The net gain attributable to the impact of changes in the firm’s own credit spreads on borrowings for which the fair value option was elected was $15 million (all related to Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Client Execution) for the first quarter of 2014, compared with a net loss of $77 million ($42 million and $35 million related to Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Client Execution and equities client execution, respectively) for the first quarter of 2013. Investing &amp; Lending Net revenues in Investing &amp; Lending were $1.53 billion for the first quarter of 2014, 26% lower than both the first quarter of 2013 and the fourth quarter of 2013. Results for the first quarter of 2014 included net gains of $702 million from investments in equities, primarily driven by private equities, principally reflecting company-specific events. In addition, Investing &amp; Lending net revenues included net gains and net interest income of $597 million from debt securities and loans, and other net revenues of $230 million related to the firm’s consolidated investments. Investment Management Net revenues in Investment Management were $1.57 billion for the first quarter of 2014, 20% higher than the first quarter of 2013 and 2% lower than the fourth quarter of 2013. The increase in net revenues compared with the first quarter of 2013 reflected significantly higher incentive fees, as well as higher management and other fees primarily due to higher average assets under supervision. During the quarter, total assets under supervision (9) increased $41 billion to $1.08 trillion. Long-term assets under supervision (9) increased $54 billion, including net inflows of $40 billion (3), primarily in fixed income assets. Net market appreciation of $14 billion during the quarter was primarily in fixed income and equity assets. Liquidity products (9) decreased $13 billion. Expenses Operating expenses were $6.31 billion, 6% lower than the first quarter of 2013 and 21% higher than the fourth quarter of 2013. Compensation and Benefits The accrual for compensation and benefits expenses (including salaries, estimated year-end discretionary compensation, amortization of equity awards and other items such as benefits) was $4.01 billion for the first quarter of 2014, 8% lower than the first quarter of 2013, reflecting a decrease in net revenues. The ratio of compensation and benefits to net revenues for the first quarter of 2014 was 43.0%, consistent with the first quarter of 2013. Total staff decreased 1% compared with the end of 2013. Non-Compensation Expenses Non-compensation expenses were $2.30 billion, 3% lower than the first quarter of 2013 and 24% lower than the fourth quarter of 2013. The decrease compared with the first quarter of 2013 was due to a decline in insurance reserves, reflecting the sale of the firm’s Americas reinsurance business, as well as lower other expenses, primarily due to lower operating expenses related to consolidated investments. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in depreciation and amortization expenses, reflecting $150 million of impairment charges in the first quarter of 2014 related to consolidated investments. The first quarter of 2014 included net provisions for litigation and regulatory proceedings of $115 million compared with $110 million for the first quarter of 2013. Provision for Taxes The effective income tax rate for the first quarter of 2014 was 32.7%, up from the full year tax rate of 31.5% for 2013, primarily due to a decrease in permanent benefits. Capital As of March 31, 2014, total capital was $244.73 billion, consisting of $79.10 billion in total shareholders’ equity (common shareholders’ equity of $71.90 billion and preferred stock of $7.20 billion) and $165.63 billion in unsecured long-term borrowings. Book value per common share was $154.69 and tangible book value per common share (10) was $145.04, both approximately 1% higher compared with the end of 2013. Book value per common share and tangible book value per common share are based on common shares outstanding, including restricted stock units granted to employees with no future service requirements, of 464.8 million as of March 31, 2014. During the quarter, the firm repurchased 10.3 million shares of its common stock at an average cost per share of $166.58, for a total cost of $1.72 billion. The remaining share authorization under the firm’s existing repurchase program is 46.9 million shares. (11) Under the regulatory capital requirements applicable to bank holding companies, the firm’s Tier 1 capital ratio (6) was 16.3% (5) and the firm’s Common Equity Tier 1 ratio (6) was 14.6% (5) as of March 31, 2014, in each case reflecting both the revised definition of regulatory capital and the transitional provisions which became effective January 1, 2014. In the first quarter of 2014, the firm completed a satisfactory parallel run under the revised capital framework. Therefore, beginning with the second quarter of 2014, the firm’s capital ratios will be computed under the Federal Reserve Board’s Basel III Advanced approach. As of March 31, 2014, the firm’s Common Equity Tier 1 ratio (12) computed under this approach was 11.3% (5). Other Balance Sheet and Liquidity Metrics Dividends The Board of Directors of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. declared a dividend of $0.55 per common share to be paid on June 27, 2014 to common shareholders of record on May 30, 2014. The firm also declared dividends of $236.98, $387.50, $252.78, $252.78, $371.88 and $343.75 per share of Series A Preferred Stock, Series B Preferred Stock, Series C Preferred Stock, Series D Preferred Stock, Series I Preferred Stock and Series J Preferred Stock, respectively (represented by depositary shares, each representing a 1/1,000th interest in a share of preferred stock), to be paid on May 12, 2014 to preferred shareholders of record on April 27, 2014. In addition, the firm declared dividends of $1,011.11 per each share of Series E Preferred Stock and Series F Preferred Stock, to be paid on June 2, 2014 to preferred shareholders of record on May 18, 2014.   FREE AppDownload
Mark Ralston/AFP/FileWeibo Corp., a subsidiary of Chinese Internet behemoth Sina, has filed for a $500 million stock offer in the United States, the ultimate exercise in capitalism, as it seeks funds to grow users in the face of pressure from newer competitors Sina Weibo sold fewer shares than expected in its US IPO which was priced below expectations ahead of a Thursday listing that takes place after tech selloffs on Wall Street. The firm, often described as China's version of Twitter, sold 16.8 million US depositary shares, according to Dow Jones Newswires, while a person familiar with the deal told AFP each share was priced at $17. That means it raised $285.6 million before the sale of any additional shares to underwriters. The figures are well below the 20 million shares and $340 million it had been aiming for -- reflecting a cautious mood after the tech-weighted Nasdaq index tumbled for more than three weeks. The pricing is at the low end of the $17-$19 range at which the Beijing-based firm had been expected to offer its shares. In March, Weibo had estimated the value of its initial public offering at as much as $500 million. The offering comes as Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba -- a shareholder in Weibo -- is preparing its own eagerly anticipated IPO later in the year, which is expected to be the biggest in the tech sector since Facebook's in 2012. Sina Weibo -- launched in August 2009 to provide services akin to Twitter which is banned in China -- is a leading social media site in a country with the world's largest population of Internet users at 618 million. But it is facing questions about the size of its user base as well as rising competition from local rivals including Tencent's WeChat, an instant messaging platform that allows users to send text, photos, videos and voice messages over mobile devices. Zhuo Saijun, a Beijing-based analyst with consultancy Analysys International, said the disappointing price was not a surprise given the challenges Weibo faces. As its value in delivering news and information decreases, people will rely on it less for information, he said, making "quite uncertain" its road to commercialisation. "On that basis, it’s not telling a very good story, so it’s quite normal to see a cut in its valuation and everyone being downbeat about it," he said. Weibo's challenges in transitioning from PC terminals to mobile ones pose another problem. "Its user engagement and multiple competitors on mobile devices are one big important reason for its awkward situation," Zhuo said. Weibo's ascent has also hit speed bumps due to a social media crackdown by Beijing, which tightly controls online activity. Ongoing troubles in the Nasdaq -- fuelled by concerns that some tech stocks such as Facebook and Netflix are overpriced -- has hit a number of recent IPOs. All five companies that went public in New York on Monday and Tuesday offloaded their shares for less than they had forecast. And on Wednesday, an IPO by Sabre Corp, a tech company specialising in travel booking, saw it sell 39.2 million shares at $16 a share, raising $627.2 million. That came under expectations for a sale of 44.7 million shares for up to $20 that could have made almost $900 million. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA view of the Dupont logo on a train car at the Dupont Edge Moor facility near Wilmington, Delaware(Reuters) - Chemicals maker DuPont &lt;DD.N&gt; reported a 57 percent fall in first-quarter net income due to the sale of its performance coating business, which added almost $2 billion to earnings in the year-earlier quarter. Net income attributable to DuPont dropped to $1.44 billion, or $1.54 per share, in the quarter ended March 31, from $3.35 billion, or $3.58 per share, a year earlier. Revenue fell nearly 3 percent to $10.13 billion. (Reporting by Swetha Gopinath in Bangalore) FREE AppDownload
tune2tune on statigr.amInvestment bank Morgan Stanley had a nice beat for its first quarter earnings results.  The bank reported adjusted EPS of 68 cents versus analysts estimates of 60 cents.  Revenue came in at $8.80 versus analyst estimates of $8.572 billion. The stock is up about 3.7% in the pre-market. "This quarter we generated higher year-over-year revenues in all three of our business segments, demonstrating the momentum we have built across the Firm. We continue to execute on our multi-year strategy to deliver consistent returns for our shareholders through revenue growth and strong expense discipline. We are pleased that this year we will commence a further share repurchase of up to $1 billion and double our dividend," Morgan Stanley CEO James Gorman said in a statement. In its earnings release, the bank noted that it's now ranked No. 1 in global M&amp;A. The bank also pointed out that its Fixed Income business improved.  Here's an excerpt from the release: Morgan Stanley (MS) today reported net revenues of $8.9 billion for the first quarter ended March 31, 2014 compared with $8.2 billion a year ago. For the current quarter, income from continuing operations applicable to Morgan Stanley was $1.5 billion, or $0.72 per diluted share,5 compared with income of $981 million, or $0.49 per diluted share,5 for the same period a year ago. Results for the current quarter included positive revenue related to changes in Morgan Stanley’s debt-related credit spreads and other credit factors (Debt Valuation Adjustment, DVA) of $126 million, compared with negative revenue of $317 million a year ago. Excluding DVA, net revenues for the current quarter were $8.8 billion compared with $8.5 billion a year ago. Income from continuing operations applicable to Morgan Stanley was $1.4 billion, or $0.68 per diluted share, compared with income of $1.2 billion, or $0.60 per diluted share, a year ago. Compensation expense was $4.3 billion compared to $4.2 billion a year ago. Non-compensation expenses were $2.3 billion compared to $2.4 billion a year ago. For the current quarter, net income applicable to Morgan Stanley, including discontinued operations, was $0.74 per diluted share, compared with net income of $0.48 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2013. Morgan Stanley Business Overview James P. Gorman, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, said, “This quarter we generated higher year-over-year revenues in all three of our business segments, demonstrating the momentum we have built across the Firm. We continue to execute on our multi-year strategy to deliver consistent returns for our shareholders through revenue growth and strong expense discipline. We are pleased that this year we will commence a further share repurchase of up to $1 billion and double our dividend.” Morgan Stanley INSTITUTIONAL SECURITIES Institutional Securities reported pre-tax income from continuing operations of $1.4 billion compared with $799 million in the first quarter of last year. The quarter’s pre-tax margin was 29% (excluding DVA, 27%).8,9 Income after the noncontrolling interest allocation and before taxes was $1.3 billion.10 Net revenues for the current quarter were $4.6 billion compared with $4.1 billion a year ago. DVA resulted in positive revenue of $126 million in the current quarter compared with negative revenue of $317 million a year ago. Excluding DVA, net revenues for the current quarter were $4.5 billion compared with $4.4 billion a year ago.8 The following discussion for sales and trading excludes DVA. Morgan Stanley WEALTH MANAGEMENT Wealth Management reported pre-tax income from continuing operations of $691 million compared with $597 million in the first quarter of last year. The quarter’s pre-tax margin was 19%.9 Net revenues for the current quarter were $3.6 billion compared with $3.5 billion a year ago. Since the second quarter of 2013, net income no longer includes a noncontrolling interest allocation to Citigroup Inc. (Citi) following the completed acquisition of the Wealth Management Joint Venture. The prior year quarter included a noncontrolling interest allocation to Citi of $121 million. Morgan Stanley INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT Investment Management reported pre-tax income from continuing operations of $263 million compared with pre-tax income of $187 million in the first quarter of last year.15 The quarter’s pre-tax margin was 36%.9 Income after the noncontrolling interest allocation and before taxes was $209 million. CAPITAL Morgan Stanley’s Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio was approximately 14.1% and its Tier 1 capital ratio was approximately 15.6% at March 31, 2014. Effective January 1, 2014, the Firm became subject to the U.S. Basel III final rule. Certain requirements in this rule are fully in effect while others are subject to transitional provisions that, without regard to any impact on capital from future earnings and any issuances of securities qualifying as regulatory capital, are expected to reduce the Firm’s regulatory capital over the next several years.17 At March 31, 2014, book value and tangible book value per common share were $32.38 and $27.41,18 respectively, based on approximately 2.0 billion shares outstanding. OTHER MATTERS The effective tax rate from continuing operations for the current quarter was 33.0%, reflecting the geographic mix of earnings. During the quarter ended March 31, 2014, the Firm repurchased approximately $150 million of its common stock or approximately 4.9 million shares. The Firm announced a share repurchase of up to $1.0 billion of common stock beginning in the second quarter of 2014 through the end of the first quarter of 2015. The Firm increased its quarterly dividend to $0.10 per share from $0.05 per share, payable on May 15, 2014 to common shareholders of record on April 30, 2014. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/StringerWorkers gather during a strike inside the factory area of Yue Yuen Industrial, in Dongguan, Guangdong province April 16, 2014. BEIJING (AP) — A strike at the Chinese factories of the world's biggest athletic shoe maker snowballed Thursday to about 30,000 workers, a labor group said, making it one of the largest-ever work stoppages at a private business in China. Workers in the southern city of Dongguan want Taiwanese-owned Yu Yuen Industrial (Holdings) Ltd., which makes shoes for companies such as Nike and Adidas, to make social security contributions required by Chinese law and meet other demands. They've been striking in increasing numbers in on-and-off stoppages since April 5. The strike at a massive 10-factory complex is the latest in a wave of unrest at factories in China, where labor shortages and a rising cost of living have made the migrant workers from the countryside who keep Chinese industry running increasingly assertive. The walkout threatens to crimp the contract manufacturer's production for clients that also include Reebok, Asics, New Balance and Timberland. A spokesman for the company could not immediately be reached for comment. More than 30,000 workers were on strike Thursday to demand the company make outstanding payments into social security funds and meet its commitments to provide free accommodation and meals, the U.S.-based China Labor Watch said, citing worker representatives. The biggest manufacturers in China operate factory complexes the size of small cities where workers are housed in dormitories. Cui Tiangang, 31, who cuts and glues rubber soles at one of the Yu Yuen factories, said by phone that the number of workers on strike had more than doubled since the latest round of stoppages started Monday. "We expect at least an explanation, to give us an answer" regarding the demands, Cui said. "We will keep on striking if there is no offer." The strike reflects a growing focus on retirement benefits among Chinese migrant workers who previously were content to receive fewer benefits in return for higher paychecks, said Wang Jiangsong, a leading scholar on labor issues at the China Institute of Industrial Relations. "In the past, they did not understand the system or trust it, and they would prefer not to pay social security but receive more in cash," Wang said. "Now the aging migrant workers are seeing they have little income when they retire to their rural villages." Wang said it was the largest strike against a private enterprise in modern Chinese history that he could recall. A strike at Henan Xinfei Electric Company in October 2012 involved about 10,000 workers. Yue Yuen's plants in China, Indonesia, Vietnam, Mexico and the United States make about 21.5 million pairs of shoes each month. ___ Researcher Fu Ting in Shanghai and business writer Kelvin Chan in Hong Kong contributed. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
Fuel cells could be the next big technology to disrupt the classic combustion engine that propels most cars today. And the Japanese automakers are leading the way with Honda's FCX Clarity and Toyota's FC. So, how do these things work? Reuters explains with this simple graphic. REUTERS GRAPHICS
FREE AppDownload
ToyotaTOYOTA CITY, Japan/IRVINE, California (Reuters) - In 1997, Toyota caught its competitors by surprise with the revolutionary Prius, the first commercially successful gasoline-electric hybrid car. Now, the Japanese firm is trying to do the same with a technology that seems straight out of science fiction. Toyota Motor Corp will next year launch a hydrogen-powered car in the United States, Japan and Europe. For now, people at Toyota are calling it the 2015 FC car, for fuel-cell. Fuel-cell cars use a "stack" of cells that electro-chemically combine hydrogen with oxygen to generate electricity that helps propel the car. Their only emission, bar heat, is water vapor, they can run five times longer than battery electric cars, and it takes just minutes to fill the tank with hydrogen - far quicker than even the most rapid charger can recharge a battery electric car. The 2015 launch culminates a 20-year zig-zag quest during which Toyota first struggled to get the technology to work and then strained to lower manufacturing costs enough to permit realistic pricing. It has also been playing catch-up to rival Honda Motor Co, which has set the early pace with its FCX Clarity, a sleek, purpose-built hydrogen car. The cost-cutting continues, though Toyota thinks it has cracked the code with incremental design improvements, such as using wider, flatter "fettuccine-style" copper in coils that make the motor more powerful, and thus smaller and cheaper. "With the 2015 FC car we think we've achieved a degree of dominance over our rivals," Satoshi Ogiso, a Toyota managing director, said in a recent interview at the group's global headquarters. "With the car, we make a first giant step" toward making fuel-cell vehicles practical for everyday use. What's more, executives and engineers say Toyota is willing to sell the car at a loss for a long while to popularize the new technology - just as it did with the Prius, which, with other hybrids, now accounts for 14 percent of Toyota's annual sales, excluding group companies, of around 9 million vehicles. As a result, drivers in key "green" markets such as California may be able to buy the car for a little more than $30,000-$40,000, after government subsidies - if management approves a pricing strategy put forward by a group of managers and engineers. General Motors Co's Chevrolet Volt, a near-all-electric plug-in hybrid, for comparison, starts at around $35,000 in the United States. The stakes are high - for global automakers, oil producers, economies, and the environment. As with battery electric cars, a major challenge for fuel-cell automakers is a lack of infrastructure, with few hydrogen fuel stations in the world. Estimates vary, but it costs about $2 million to build a single hydrogen fuel station in the United States, according to Toyota executives. Safety is also a concern. Hydrogen is a highly flammable element when not handled properly. The Toyota launch pits fuel-cell technology against battery electric in a race to capture the hearts and wallets of drivers looking for engines that are easier on the environment. Automakers are under pressure to invest in so-called "zero-emission" cars as tougher rules globally demand lower harmful emissions and better fuel economy. It's a polarizing debate. Takeshi Uchiyamada, the 67-year-old "father of the Prius" whose success catapulted him from mid-level engineer to Toyota board chairman, says technology inefficiencies will make the battery electric car little more than an "errands car" - a small run-around for shopping, dropping the kids at school and other short-haul chores. Other global automakers in the fuel-cell camp include Daimler AG, Hyundai Motor Co and Honda, which plans to introduce an upgraded FCX Clarity next year with seating for five, a smaller fuel-cell stack, greater power and a longer driving range. Those betting on battery electric cars include Nissan Motor Co, Tesla Motors Inc, Bayerische Motoren Werke AG,GM, Ford Motor Co and Chinese automakers backed by the country's industrial policymakers. China offers generous purchase incentives for those buying battery electric cars and aims to have 5 million "new energy" vehicles - mostly all-electric and near all-electric plug-in hybrids - on the road by 2020. Several of these will be exhibited at the Beijing auto show from April 20. Tesla chief Elon Musk has said hydrogen is an unsuitable fuel for cars. In a videotaped speech last year to employees and others at a new Tesla service center in Germany, Musk said: "Fuel-cell is so bullshit. Hydrogen is a quite dangerous gas. It's suitable for the upper-stage rocket, but not for cars." Even Toyota only expects tens of thousands of fuel-cell cars to be sold each year a decade from now as the new technology will need time to gain traction. It's been a long road for Toyota to get this far. Ogiso, who was part of the team that came up with the Prius and now leads the development of hydrogen cars, likens the two-decade effort to "racing cars in dark tunnels." "You don't know whether you're ahead or behind," said the 53-year-old engineer-turned executive. Just a decade ago, it cost more than $1 million to manufacture a fuel-cell vehicle propulsion system. Toyota has whittled down those costs and overcome technological hurdles, such as how to start the car in very cold weather. In October 2003, a materials researcher at Toyota's tech center in Ann Arbor, Michigan gave a presentation in which he highlighted the difficulty his team faced in solving this issue. Shortly afterwards, rival Honda said it developed a fuel-cell car that could run in temperatures as low as minus 20 Celsius (minus 4 Fahrenheit). "It was embarrassing, and we were yelled at by the big bosses," recalled a person familiar with the incident. Five years later, there was more embarrassment at the hands of Honda - what Toyota fuel-cell engineers call the "Clarity shock" - referring to Honda's launch of the FCX Clarity. "Honda built every part of that from the ground up, and it had cool styling," said a Toyota engineer who has been on the fuel-cell team for more than a decade. "It sent shockwaves through our team." On a single floor of Toyota's research tower, across the street from the headquarters, some 200 material scientists, chemists, computer programmers and mechanical engineers worked to nail down the hydrogen electric fuel-cell technology they needed. A sizeable chunk of the cost savings has come from using less platinum as a catalyst in the electrochemical reaction between hydrogen and oxygen, resulting in fuel economies. Toyota says its 2015 hydrogen car should drive 700 km (435 miles) on a single tank, more than many conventional gasoline-engine cars, and a strong selling point to those worried about driving range. Ogiso and his engineers are reluctant to talk specifically about how they made their breakthrough, but noted Toyota's expertise in nanotechnology, allowing them to shrink platinum particles to better combine oxygen and hydrogen and generate more electricity. That allowed them to reduce the size of the cell stack and use less fuel to make the car go farther. Ogiso says Toyota has cut the platinum use per car by more than two-thirds through nanotechnology and stack-design improvements, and he expects to trim that further. Engineer Hitoshi Nomasa said a hydrogen-powered Toyota SUV now uses around 30 grams of platinum in the fuel-cell, down from 100 grams previously. Platinum currently costs $1,437 an ounce (28 grams) on world markets. Toyota has also borrowed spare parts from the Prius and other gasoline-electric hybrids it sells around the world. While the fuel-cell car uses hydrogen as fuel, it otherwise resembles the hybrid models as both use electricity to power their motors. "Very roughly ... under the hood of the 2015 FC car lie more or less the exact same components used for the Priusand other hybrids," said another Toyota fuel-cell engineer, referring to the electric motor, "transaxle" gear and hybrid battery pack, among the parts lifted from the hybrid spares bin. Even the incremental advance with the "fettuccine coils" - the wide, flat-shaped copper wire can bind the coil more tightly and needs less space - took the Toyota team a decade to hone. While costs have come down significantly, Toyota says a hydrogen car's fuel-cell propulsion system alone still costs it close to $50,000 to produce. That's partly why some Toyota money managers want a more conservative pricing strategy - of $50,000-$100,000 - said one individual on the 2015 FC car launch team. "It might be tough to price it below $50,000," Ogiso said. "But anything is possible at this point." (Editing by Ian Geoghegan) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Rebecca Cook A man walks past a row of General Motors vehicles at a Chevrolet dealership on Woodward Avenue in Detroit, Michigan April 1, 2014. SEOUL (Reuters) - Japanese and German automakers are benefiting more than their U.S. peers from a free trade deal between Washington and Seoul, according to import figures suggesting U.S. brands are not reaping the rewards they may have expected from the pact. U.S. automakers are battling a perception that they lag German peers in fuel efficiency just when sales figures show South Korean consumers are developing a particular taste for diesel-powered models, the German brands' mainstay. German and Japanese carmakers boosted sales of U.S.-made vehicles last year by nearly five-fold from 2011, the year before the trade deal took effect, outpacing the 43 percent jump U.S. automakers reported during the same period, according to the Korea Automobile Importers and Distributors Association (KAIDA). South Korea, one of the few auto markets dominated by domestic carmakers, has emerged as a big source of growth for global brands following trade deals with Europe and the United States which cut import tariffs and ignited a sales bonanza. The South Korean market for imported cars exploded to 9.2 trillion won ($8.87 billion) last year, from just 1.5 trillion won in 2008, according to industry estimates. There were no total revenue figures for imported cars available for 2011. "The FTA did give us an opportunity to grow but it is not having a significant boost to our sales," an official at Cadillac said on condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the issue. "Growth of foreign car sales in South Korea is mainly driven by expanding sales of diesel models, but there's a dearth of diesel cars in the United States." Despite the trade deal, U.S. automakers saw their share of South Korea's imported car market shrink to 7.5 percent last year, from 7.9 percent in 2011, according to KAIDA. German brands led the pack with 67.5 percent of imported car sales last year, while Japanese companies were second on 14 percent. "U.S. cars are still perceived as bulky and less fuel-efficient than German and Japanese cars," Daelim University College automotive engineering Professor Kim Pil-soo said. German brands such as Volkswagen &lt;VOWG_p.DE&gt;, BMW &lt;BMWG.DE&gt; and Mercedes &lt;DAIGn.DE&gt; have raised sales of U.S. imports by more than three-fold since 2011, according to the KAIDA data provided to Reuters. Volkswagen, which did not bring a single car from the United States to South Korea in 2011, sold almost 5,000 U.S.-made vehicles in the country last year. Unperturbed by the lack of a free trade pact between Tokyo and Seoul, Japanese firms have seized advantage of the Korea-U.S. deal to minimize the impact of a volatile yen and capitalize on lower tariffs on U.S. imports. The FTA immediately halved South Korea's tariff on U.S. auto imports to 4 percent. Toyota Motor Corp &lt;7203.T&gt;, Honda Motor Co Ltd &lt;7267.T&gt; and Nissan Motor Co Ltd &lt;7201.T&gt; boosted sales of their U.S.-made cars by seven-fold to 12,193 vehicles last year from 2011, the KAIDA data showed. That compared with 8,671 U.S.-produced vehicles sold by U.S. automakers, led by Ford Motor Co &lt;F.N&gt; and Chrysler, a unit of Fiat Chrysler Automobiles &lt;FIA.MI&gt;. The surge in U.S.-made Japanese imports has sparked scrutiny from South Korea's customs office. Customs officials said they were reviewing whether U.S.-made Toyota cars were qualified to get a tariff benefit, which requires vehicles to contain at least 35 percent U.S.-origin materials. (Editing by Miyoung Kim and Stephen Coates) FREE AppDownload
So why is the European Monetary Union MSCI stock price index up 53% from 2012’s low? It’s not because of the EMU MSCI forward earnings, which shows no recovery at all. Indeed, it remains on a slight downtrend, which started in mid-2011. So far, the EMU MSCI rally has been all about valuation. The lesson is that we should never underestimate the ability of central banks to drive up stock prices by promising to do whatever it takes to avoid financial meltdowns, recessions, deflations, and plagues. That’s what ECB President Mario Draghi pledged in his July 26, 2012 speech. He seems to be reiterating that theme recently, as I noted yesterday. So are some of his colleagues. That might be enough to drive valuations still higher for the EMU MSCI, as long as the Ukraine crisis doesn’t trip up the Eurozone’s feeble recovery. Dr. Ed's BlogToday's Morning Briefing: The Big Thaw. (1) From the Big Chill to the Big Thaw. (2) Spring forward. (3) February's batch of upward revisions is a big surprise. (4) Retail sales and production at record highs. (5) Housing has some headwinds. (6) Magnifying glass needed to see Eurozone recovery. (7) No recovery in forward revenues and earnings of EMU MSCI. (8) Will Draghi continue to levitate valuations? (9) Production growth slowing in emerging economies. (10) Focus on overweight-rated S&amp;P 500 IT. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlo AllegriActor Sean Penn, Ambassador-at-Large, Republic of Haiti and Founder of the J/P Haitian Relief Organization, smokes an electronic cigarette during a breakout session labeled "Expanding Cross-Sector Coordination in Haiti" at the Clinton Global Initiative 2013 (CGI) in New York September 25, 2013. WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Complaints of injury linked to e-cigarettes, from burns and nicotine toxicity to respiratory and cardiovascular problems, have jumped over the past year as the devices become more popular, the most recent U.S. data show. Between March 2013 and March 2014, more than 50 complaints about e-cigarettes were filed with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, according to data obtained through a public records request. That is on par with the combined number reported over the previous five years. The health problems were not necessarily caused by e-cigarettes. And it is not clear that the rate of adverse events has increased. In 2011, about 21 percent of adult smokers had used e-cigarettes, according to federal data, more than double the rate in 2010. Still, David Ashley, director of the office of science at the FDA's tobacco division, said the uptick is significant, especially in light of a recent report from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention showing an increase in the number of e-cigarette-related calls to poison control centers. "Both together does suggest there are more instances going on," he said. The FDA is poised to regulate e-cigarettes and other "vaping" devices for the first time, potentially reshaping an industry that generates roughly $2 billion a year in the United States. Some industry analysts see e-vapor consumption outpacing that of traditional cigarettes, now an $85 billion industry, within a decade. E-cigarettes are battery-powered cartridges filled with a nicotine liquid that, when heated, creates an inhalable mist. Little is known about the long-term health effects of the products, which were developed in China and moved into the U.S. market in 2007. "Some evidence suggests that e-cigarette use may facilitate smoking cessation, but definitive data are lacking," Dr. Priscilla Callahan-Lyon of the FDA's Center for Tobacco Products wrote in a recent medical journal article. Contradictory findings from preliminary studies have become ammunition in the lobbying campaign around the devices, which allow users to inhale nicotine without the damaging tar produced by conventional cigarettes. Public health officials have said the devices may encourage nonsmokers, particularly young people, to try conventional cigarettes. E-cigarette advocates have argued that they provide a safer alternative for smokers. The FDA has sponsored research to try to answer safety questions, and it is examining its database of adverse events for any trends that might raise concerns. RESPIRATORY PROBLEMS The complaints from the public filed with the FDA cited trouble breathing, headache, cough, dizziness, sore throat, nose bleeds, chest pain or other cardiovascular problems, and allergic reactions such as itchiness and swelling of the lips. One person told the FDA that while eating dinner at a restaurant a customer at the next table was smoking an e-cigarette. "The vapor cloud was big enough to come over my table and the e-cig smoker was 'huffing' it voraciously," the person, whose name was redacted, wrote. "I got dizzy, my eyes began to water and I ended up taking my food to go because of the intense heartbeat I began to develop." One woman wrote that her husband began smoking e-cigarettes liberally in his car and home after being told they were safe and that the vapor was "just like water." "My 4-year-old has had a raspy voice since he started but I really didn't think anything of it till last night my husband was just puffing away on that thing for hours and I woke up wheezing and unable to breathe." Miguel Martin, president of Logic Technology, one of the biggest U.S. e-cigarette makers along with Lorillard Inc and privately held NJOY, said the spike in adverse event reports reinforces the importance of regulation, especially in areas governing manufacturing practices and labeling, where standards can vary dramatically. "Clearly, because of the business opportunities, you have companies in an unregulated environment that are importing without checks and balances," he said, adding that while Logic pays attention to quality control, "some other companies just are not having the same diligence or focus." MADE IN CHINA Most e-cigarettes are made in China and sold under more than 300 brands in the United States, some through retail stores, others online. The quality of the products is inconsistent, however, making it difficult to tease out the cause of any health problems. One smoker began using e-cigarettes following dental surgery after the dentist said quitting smoking would speed the healing process, according to a report filed last October with the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission that was forwarded to the FDA. "It blew up in my mouth while inhaling, burning my stitches and gum, lip and fingers," the report said. Others complained of over-heating devices. "The electric cigarette gets hot when you use it and alters the taste buds," wrote one consumer. "I just recently realized what was turning my taste buds black." It is not possible to draw general conclusions from individual case reports, but there is a growing recognition that the inconsistent quality of the devices, aside from any risk inherent in the inhalation of nicotine vapor, poses potential safety risks. In a bid to address quality concerns, some e-cigarette makers are beginning to make them, either partially or wholly, in the United States. Reynolds American Inc, which began selling its Vuse e-cigarettes in Colorado last July and expects to expand nationwide this summer, makes its products in Kansas and North Carolina, though it still imports its batteries from China. The reason, Richard Smith, a Reynolds spokesman said, is that inconsistent quality is turning off potential customers. "There has been a high level of trial among adult consumers but a low level of adoption," he said. While the cost may be higher than sourcing ready-made products from China, the pay-off, Reynolds is betting, will be customer loyalty. If a quality problem arises during the manufacturing process, Smith said, "we can identify and fix it." (Reporting by Toni Clarke in Washington; Additional reporting by Jilian Mincer in New York; Editing by Michele Gershberg) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersRBI Governor Rajan attends a seminar organised by the University of Chicago in New DelhiMUMBAI (Reuters) - Since taking the helm of India's central bank, Raghuram Rajan's agenda to reform markets has put the noses of Mumbai bond traders firmly out of joint by upending practices that provided them with a relatively secure rate of return. Benchmark 10-year bond yields have risen more than half a percentage point since Rajan took office on September 4, as the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has sharply restricted bond purchases and announced an unexpected shift in the focus of monetary policy to consumer inflation from wholesale prices. While the dealing community in India's financial capital concedes that Rajan's reforms are necessary for the longer term, many traders complain that he has gone too far too quickly, and without consulting the markets. Their gripes stand in contrast with the high-profile central bank chief's glowing global reputation as a capable technocrat who has been instrumental in guiding the rupee through its worst turmoil since India's balance of payments crisis in 1991. More efficient markets are a priority for the former International Monetary Fund chief economist, who has criticized distortions he believes unfairly benefit traders and banks. Early this month, for example, he cited a fiscal year-end practice by banks to dress up balance sheets by hoarding cash and holding back on lending, which distorts overnight rates. "We don't think the RBI should be in the business of bailing out the banking system with infusion of liquidity when the banking system itself is creating its own problems. And so we have to change the incentive structure," he said. The RBI did not have immediate further comment when asked to respond to this story. The pace of change has surprised traders accustomed to a central bank known for caution and for soliciting wide feedback before making decisions. And the reforms are not without risks for the RBI. Indian state banks can ill afford losses on their bond portfolios at a time when bad loans have risen and capital levels are under pressure. India also needs bond traders to shore up its finances. The 6 trillion rupees ($99.41 billion) in gross bond sales planned for the fiscal year that started this month would finance 85 percent of India's projected fiscal deficit. Traders warn the uncertainty could weaken demand for debt, especially since the RBI, which manages India's borrowing, is unlikely to pay high yields. "The fact is, you are pushing down 6 trillion rupees of government borrowing each year," said the chief executive of a primary dealership. "And all the market basically is saying is: look there is just so much appetite." GOOD MEASURES, TOUGH TIMING Some bank traders complain they are being deprived of fair incentives after long being compelled to swallow huge amounts of government debt to help ease India's fiscal deficits and meet reserve requirements. "There is no doubt that these measures are good, but the only concern is these measures should have been taken in a stable market. And in India, the markets are neither stable nor mature (enough) to absorb these changes," said a senior treasury official at a foreign bank. "He has been doing things hurriedly without taking markets into confidence," said the official, who, along with nearly a dozen traders who spoke to Reuters for this article, did not want to go on the record in criticizing the central bank. But A. Prasanna, economist at ICICI Securities Primary Dealership Ltd, said discomfort over the reforms for some in the markets was to be expected. "Absent the changes which Rajan is carrying out, Indian interest rate markets will remain unsophisticated, shallow and narrow," he said. Within weeks of taking office on September 4, Rajan unexpectedly raised interest rates and has lifted them by three-quarters of a percentage point overall. That tightening has been driven in part by what some traders say was his sudden shift towards the much higher consumer price index (CPI) from wholesale prices as the RBI's main inflation indicator. "There hasn't been enough discussion and debate on the CPI," said the head of fixed income at a domestic bank. "I am surprised, because we're talking about an economy the size and scale of India." EYES ON OMOS Rajan has been reluctant to conduct bond purchases through open market operations (OMOs), also riling traders. Although intended to help the RBI manage cash conditions, critics say OMOs enable traders to unload bonds at a profit in exchange for helping finance government spending by buying large amounts of debt. Under Rajan, the RBI has sold just 280 billion rupees in bonds through OMOs, bringing the total for the fiscal year ended in March to 730 billion rupees - half the 1.48 trillion rupees in the previous fiscal year. Instead, the RBI has injected 1.9 trillion rupees into the market via repurchase agreements (repos) with banks to shift to a more targeted system of providing short-term funds in an effort to help develop local money markets. With repos, traders pledge bonds with the RBI in exchange for cash loans, depriving them of the profit from a bond sale. The RBI is also considering scrapping a 14-year-old system under which roughly $30 billion worth of state debt is sold each year at a fixed spread over federal bonds for a market-based system that prices the debt according to risk perception. If implemented, some lenders could see mark-to-market losses of about 60 bps on their state bond portfolios, according to market estimates. RBI officials have also hinted they may reform the system under which banks must set aside part of their debt holdings until maturity, which enables them to park illiquid or loss-making bonds without marking them to market prices. ($1 = 60.2400 Indian Rupees) (Editing by Rafael Nam, Tony Munroe and Mike Collett-White) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersBank of Japan Governor Kuroda casts his shadow on a wall as he drinks a cup of water during a news conference at the BOJ headquarters in TokyoTOKYO (Reuters) - The Bank of Japan maintained its upbeat view on most of the country's regional economies, adding to reassurances from its governor that the world's third-largest economy can ride out the pain from a sales tax hike without additional stimulus. Also on Thursday, a Reuters survey showed manufacturers were more confident about business conditions in April and saw a more moderate dip over the next three months, suggesting the damage from the tax hike may be less pronounced than thought. The optimism may add to a growing consensus in financial markets that the central bank will hold off on easing policy until around July to spend more time scrutinizing the impact from the April 1 tax hike on domestic consumption. In a quarterly report analyzing nine regional sectors of Japan, the BOJ raised its assessment for one and left unchanged its view for the rest to say they are all recovering moderately. None of the regional assessments were revised down. "Domestic demand has been firm, production has been rising moderately as a trend, while job markets and income conditions have been improving," according to the report compiled at a meeting of the central bank's regional branch managers. The report did mention some regions seeing declines in housing starts and sales of luxury items at department stores, in reaction to a boom in demand ahead of the April 1 tax hike. But while demand rose more than expected ahead of the tax increase, the subsequent decline after the higher levy is within expectations, said Shigeki Kushida, who as head of the BOJ's Osaka branch oversees the Kinki western Japan region. "Business sentiment hasn't deteriorated and remains relatively firm even after the tax hike," Kushida told a news conference. "Conditions are gradually falling in place for the economy to overcome the sales tax hike," he said, pointing to signs companies in his region are hiring more and gradually raising wages to fill labor shortages. EXPORTS A SOFT SPOT Many private-sector analysts agree with the BOJ that economic growth will rebound in the July-September quarter after suffering a mild contraction in the current quarter as the tax hike cools household spending. But some have warned that the tax hike may hit the economy more than expected before exports rebound enough to take up the slack, in which case the BOJ may be forced to act again to boost growth. In a speech to the regional branch managers' meeting, BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda stuck to his view the economy will recover moderately albeit with some bumps caused by the tax hike, signaling that he saw no need to expand stimulus now. But he stressed the BOJ was ready to ease policy further should risks threaten the achievement of its goal of accelerating consumer inflation to 2 percent by around April next year. "We will adjust policy when needed while scrutinizing both upside and downside risks to the economy and prices," he said, repeating the BOJ's usual line on monetary policy. With most regions pointing to resilience in domestic demand, the soft spot for the economy remains exports, which have failed to pick up quickly enough as the BOJ had expected. "Our view is that exports will eventually pick up in line with improvements in the economy. But for now, we haven't seen enough data telling us when and by how much exports will rise," Kushida said of the Kinki western Japan region - home to major electronics manufacturers like Panasonic Corp &lt;6752.T&gt;. The BOJ's regional report is based mostly on the performance of regional economies up to March but incorporates developments after the increase in the sales tax on April 1. The central bank has stood pat since offering an intense burst of monetary stimulus in April last year, when it pledged to double base money via aggressive asset purchases to accelerate consumer inflation to 2 percent in roughly two years. The BOJ will hold its next policy review on April 30, when it will issue new long-term economic and price forecasts in its twice-yearly outlook report. (Reporting by Leika Kihara; Editing by Dominic Lau and Chris Gallagher) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA Citibank sign on bank branch in midtown Manhattan in New York(Reuters) - The Federal Reserve indicated to Citigroup Inc that the bank would get more time to fix certain "stress test" planning problems before rejecting its capital plan last month, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing people close to the company. The Fed had agreed to give Citigroup a 2015 deadline to address a series of shortcomings identified by the regulator in the wake of the 2013 test, the report said. (http://r.reuters.com/tyz58v) Executives at Citigroup received mixed messages from the Fed and were taken aback after the bank failed to get the nod on its capital plan in March, the Journal reported. Citigroup and the Fed were not available for comment immediately outside regular U.S. working hours. The Federal Reserve last month rejected Citigroup's plans to buy back $6.4 billion of shares and boost dividends, saying the bank is not sufficiently prepared to handle a potential financial crisis. Citi was one of the five banks whose payout plans were rejected by the Fed. (Reporting by Arnab Sen in Bangalore; Editing by Gopakumar Warrier) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA man fishes next to a lake with the reflection of newly-built residential buildings at a park in ShenyangBEIJING (Reuters) - China's economy is doing better than official data suggests, the Commerce Ministry said a day after figures showed growth at an 18-month low, adding that targets for exports and imports this year should be met despite some caution over the trade outlook. Ministry spokesman Shen Danyang said a rise in export deliveries, a customs department poll of exporters and growth in trade in individual provinces all showed that the economy was in good shape. "I agree with the opinion that the economy and trade were faring better than the released data showed," Shen told reporters at a briefing on Thursday. Data on Wednesday showed the economy grew an annual 7.4 percent in the first quarter, its slowest pace in 18 months but just ahead of forecasts for 7.3 percent growth. March trade figures earlier this month showed exports unexpectedly fell for a second successive month and imports dropped sharply. Shen said trade numbers in 2013 had been artificially inflated by the reporting of fake deals, used to avoid capital controls, before a crackdown. That was one of the reasons for the sharp drop in trade figures in the first quarter, he added. "Stripping off the abnormally high comparison base of last year, China's exports and imports in the first quarter actually grew 4.6 percent and 9.6 percent respectively," he said. The government has repeatedly said it would accept slower growth to push forward its restructuring of the economy away from a reliance on investment and credit for growth. INVESTMENT FLOWS Commerce Ministry data on Thursday showed foreign direct investment (FDI) inflows of $12.2 billion in March, down 1.5 percent from a year earlier. However, total first-quarter FDI grew by an annual 5.5 percent to $31.5 billion, and Shen said the trend of steady growth was intact. The government wants to attract FDI to services, high-end manufacturing, and environmental industries instead of into low-value factories, and wants local firms to increase offshore investment. FDI in the service sector rose by 20.6 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier. Services attracted 55 percent of foreign direct investment, and manufacturing took 37 percent. Outbound investment by non-financial Chinese firms was $19.9 billion in the first quarter, down 16.5 percent from a year ago. It had fallen an annual 37.2 percent in the first two months of 2014, and the commerce ministry had previously said a $15 billion acquisition by oil and gas producer CNOOC in early 2013 was the reason for the sharp drop. The data showed outbound investment to Hong Kong fell 47 percent in the first quarter from last year. Investment in ASEAN countries and the European Union also fell. Last week, the economic planning commission said it would ease restrictions on overseas investments by allowing firms to make deals of less than $1 billion without approval. (Editing by John Mair) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Susana VeraTraders talk at Madrid's Bourse.Markets aren't doing too much early in European trading. Britain's FTSE 100 is down 0.2%. France's CAC 40 is flat. Germany's DAX is down 0.1%. Spain's IBEX is down 0.2%. Italy's FTSE MIB is down 0.3%. This follows Wednesday's 162-point rally in the Dow. Later today, we'll get the latest weekly tally of initial unemployment insurance claims and monthly business outlook from the Philadelphia Federal Reserve. FREE AppDownload
APRon Paul detailed his thoughts on Bitcoin in one of two posts he wrote on the question-and-answer site Quora Wednesday. While the former Republican presidential candidate and congressman expressed support for the cryptocurrency, he also said it is not "true money." "Though I don’t personally believe that Bitcoin is true money, it should be perfectly legal and there should be no restrictions on it, there should be no taxes on it," Paul wrote. "The people who operate Bitcoin would, of course, be prohibited from committing fraud but the people should be able to have competition whether it is a basket of commodities or crypto-currencies - it should be perfectly legal." Paul described Bitcoin as an "introduction" to competition for the dollar that could improve our "terrible monetary system." "Bitcoin is a very interesting subject because for many years in Congress I was a champion of legalizing competition in currencies," wrote Paul. "We have a terrible monetary system today. We have a government that purposely counterfeits and debases the currencies and I believe that the alternative would be a competition. That means that anything that wants to substitute for the American dollar should be permitted. There should be no prohibitions; there should not be a monopoly and a cartel running our monetary system because it so often benefits the privileged few. ... Bitcoin is an introduction to that." Paul also noted Bitcoin requires "freedom from government intervention when it comes to the Internet" to flourish. He said he is "concerned that the government ultimately wants to curtail the Internet." "The internet is the salvation for those of us who believe in liberty because it is an alternative way of getting around the system not only in the spreading of our ideas in this instance but in in terms of getting around the monetary system on the whole if they do permit crypto-currencies and other forms of transactions. So, this is something that we should all be concerned about whether we endorse it or not," Paul wrote. Read Paul's full discussion of Bitcoin here.      FREE AppDownload
