AP Photo/Kamran JebreiliSYDNEY (Reuters) - Dubai stocks crashed on Sunday and Asian stocks got off to shaky start on Monday in step with a steep decline on Wall Street as worries about global economic growth sapped confidence, keeping crude oil prices stuck near four-year lows. Stocks in Dubai fell 6.5% on Sunday, the biggest drop in four months to bring the Dubai Financial Market General Index to its lowest level since July 20. Dubai, which like many Middle East exchanges is open from Sunday to Thursday, led a broad sell-off in Middle East stocks, as markets in Israel, Qatar, and Saudi Arabia also sold off on Sunday. Hisham Khairy, the Dubai-based head of institutional trade at Mena Corp. Financial Services, told Bloomberg that, "Global markets are all selling off and it’s that weakness we’re tracking. There’s still more blood to come." MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan fell 0.5 percent on Monday, extending last week's 1.1 percent drop. Australia's S&amp;P/ASX 200 index  dipped 0.5 percent, while South Korea's KOSPI slid 0.8 percent. Japanese financial markets are closed on Monday and other major centers including the United States and Canada will be partially, or fully, shut for holidays as well. The declines in Asian markets came after U.S. stocks skidded 1.2 percent on Friday and Wall Street's fear gauge, the CBOE Volatility Index, jumped to a near two-year high. At an International Monetary Fund and World Bank meeting in Washington on Saturday, IMF member countries called for bold action to bolster the global economic recovery and flagged Europe as a top concern. "The sell-off on Friday was brutal. Maybe even overly so," said Evan Lucas, strategist at IG in Melbourne."With global growth being slashed and the outlook for emerging markets looking very shaky, Australia will suffer more than most developed nations." Asia's MSCI index has fallen every week in the past five and is now down 10 percent from a near seven-year peak set early last month. With Europe staring at the prospects of a recession, Japan's economy floundering, China's expansion slowing and the Federal Reserve on track to end its bond-buying stimulus soon, investors have been cutting back on risk assets in earnest. Chinese trade data due later in the day will be closely watched and any disappointment there will no doubt keep investors in a 'risk off' mode. All this anxiety has helped shore up the safe-haven yen, which rose to an 11-month high against the euro at 135.58 early on Monday. It reached a one-month high on the greenback at 107.26, pulling well away from a six-year trough of 110.09 per dollar reached early this month. The Australian dollar, usually used as a liquid proxy for China plays and more generally for risk assets, fell to $0.8670 back near a four-year trough of $0.8642 plumbed early this month. Commodities have also taken a hit, none more so than crude oil which has to contend with ample supply as well. Brent crude has dropped $25 since June and on Friday came within a whisker of $88 a barrel for the first time in nearly four years. It last traded at $89.00. Copper at $6,674 per ton was flirting with a five-month trough of $6,600 set early this month. Spot gold traded at $1,230 an ounce, keeping off last week's 15-month low of $1,183.46. Underscoring the gloom surrounding the euro zone, Standard &amp; Poor's on Friday slapped a negative outlook on France's sovereign ratings, topping off a difficult week that featured a string of worryingly weak Germany data. European Central Bank President Mario Draghi said a slowdown in the euro zone's economic momentum could weigh further on the reluctance of companies and households to invest. Draghi reiterated that the ECB Governing Council was unanimous in its commitment to using additional unconventional instruments within its mandate to address risks of a too-long period of low inflation. Several Federal Reserve officials, most notably, Fed Vice Chairman Stanley Fischer, said on Saturday efforts to normalize U.S. monetary policy after years of extraordinary stimulus may be hampered by the global outlook.   (Editing by Shri Navaratnam) FREE AppDownload
Ed Yardeni Here's a VERY easy prediction to make. This week, lots of people are going to be talking about the red line in the chart above. That's the 200-day moving average (the average of the last 200 days of trading). When the stock market falls below that line, people start to freak out about a serious correction. Right now, the market is bang-on the line, so what stocks do next (will they bounce off the line? Will they slice right through it?) will be a major source of conversation. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersIMF Managing Director Lagarde participates in a panel discussion during the IMF-World Bank annual meetings in WashingtonBy Krista Hughes WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Policymakers scrambling to keep the world economy from settling into the "new mediocre" of sluggish growth can no longer rely on global trade to do the heavy lifting. International trade helped the global economy tide over rough spots over two decades before the financial crisis, when it grew nearly twice as fast as economic output, but this engine is running out of fuel. That is bad news for officials taking part in discussions at the International Monetary Fund and World Bank meetings this week, focused on preventing what International Monetary Fund chief Christine Lagarde warns could be a long spell of sub-par performance for the global economy. The impetus from China and Russia opening their doors and the emergence of global supply chains, linking factories in emerging markets with rich consumers in the developed world, has largely run its course, economists say. "It's that particular engine which seems to have exhausted its propulsive energy for now," said World Bank trade specialist Aaditya Mattoo. The McKinsey Global Institute calculates trade and cross-border financial flows contribute up to a quarter of global growth, leaving policymakers with a gaping hole to fill if trade shifts into a lower gear. As the IMF cut its global growth outlook, it also forecast annual trade growth to average just 4.2 percent in the 10 years starting in 2016, compared to 6.7 percent in the decade leading up to the 2008-2009 financial crisis. One reason for that downgrade is obvious enough: it is hard to replicate the effect of an economy of China's size tearing down trade barriers. Add to that slower growth in other emerging markets as they become richer and have less catching up to do, a smaller wage gap between developed and developing nations and a renewed leaning to make inputs for final products close to home.  NEW SPARK NEEDED RBC Global Asset Management chief economist Eric Lascelles predicts trade's contribution to growth will be half a percentage point lower than in the previous two decades - half of that because of weak global demand, trade barriers and geopolitical tensions and half reflecting permanent changes in trade dynamics. "We could expect some of the lost trade to come back but realistically a lot of it is probably gone forever and we may actually be in an area of diminished globalization, primarily via lower trade flows but perhaps also via less on the migration front and less on the financial flows front," he said. The pressure is on policymakers to regain as much momentum as possible through far-reaching regional and global pacts and standards under the aegis of the World Trade Organization. "We have been living too much off past trade liberalization," WTO Director-General Roberto Azevedo told the IMF's steering committee, urging policymakers to support a global pact to cut customs red tape, now stalled by opposition from India. Economists estimate that those changes, when fully implemented, could boost global output by $1 trillion per year, equivalent to a 1.3 percent boost to the world economy. That's roughly twice as much as the combined impact of major trade deals being negotiated between the United States and Europe and another between 12 Pacific Rim countries, including the United States, Japan, Canada and Australia. Economist Ed Gresser, from Washington-based think tank Progressive Economy, said services trade could expand as technological innovations made it easier to provide services like education and healthcare across borders. In the United States alone, internet-friendly services such as communications and financial services had grown to make up 11.7 percent of exports by 2012, from 7.6 percent in 2000. "The natural path of that should be to bring services up, in the same way that manufacturing trade grew relative to resources and agriculture in the second half of the 20th century," he said. HSBC global chief economist Stephen King said there was also potential to increase trade among countries in Latin America, Asia, the Middle East and Africa, which had not been fully captured by recent waves of trade growth. But he said an increase in so-called south-to-south trade and increased demand for services in developing countries would fall short of the 0.5 to 1.0 percentage point boost trade had given to global growth, on average, since the 1950s. "Once you have opened up all those opportunities, you can't keep opening them up because there are no more opportunities to open," he said.  (Editing by Tomasz Janowski) FREE AppDownload
We hope you enjoyed your weekend, and got sometime not thinking about the market selloff. Because it's continuing. In early going, S&amp;P futures are already sliding. Here's the chart from FinViz: FinViz Oil, which has been getting hammered, and which is a warning signal about global growth, is sliding as well. In early trading, Australian stocks are down over 1%. This weekend also saw a crash in Dubai, where the stock market fell 6.5%. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersGermany's Minister of Finance Wolfgang Schauble speaks during a discussion during the World Bank/IMF annual meetings in Washington, fileLUXEMBOURG (Reuters) - France and Italy will keep pressure on Germany this week to use government money to revive the euro zone's stagnating economy but in a sign of inertia, a promised list of projects to create growth will not be ready until December. European finance ministers take the argument to Luxembourg on Monday for two days of talks following last week's International Monetary Fund meetings in Washington. There, German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble ruled out "writing checks" for the euro zone. One compromise is an infrastructure investment fund of public and private money, although even the first draft of a list of potential projects will not be ready until December, according to a document prepared for the Luxembourg meeting. The euro zone's sinking fortunes are raising alarm among global policymakers who fear the bloc is again dragging on the world economy just two years after its last crisis and say the continued strict focus on budget rigor is misplaced. EU officials are nevertheless seeking last-minute changes to the French and Italian budgets for 2015 to reduce their fiscal deficits, sources have told Reuters -- a sign of the difficult balancing act underway in the euro zone. Ministers will also hear from European Union and IMF inspectors on Greece's plans to exit its financial rescue program in 2015, a year ahead of schedule. There are signs that a poor run of German data may be softening Chancellor Angela Merkel's opposition to public spending. Merkel says her government is exploring ways to encourage more investment in the German economy, which contracted by 0.2 percent in the second quarter and could weaken further going into 2015. The German government will cut its economic growth forecasts for 2014 and 2015 next week, sources have told Reuters, while Britain is also concerned about the impact euro zone stagnation is having on its recovery. EU finance ministers are pinning their immediate hopes on a plan by the European Commission and the European Investment Bank to create a pipeline of projects to boost business dynamism and growth potential, according to the EU document seen by Reuters. The European Union hopes that small amounts of money from the EIB and the EU's budget could be seed financing. Investment in the 28-country bloc has fallen by about 20 percent since 2008, according to the European Central Bank. But there are few details other than that ministers are eager to bring in as much private investment as possible and compliment a 300 billion euro investment program proposed by the incoming Commission president, Jean-Claude Juncker. Jyrki Katainen, who is set to take over as the European Commission's official responsible for jobs and growth next month, told Reuters that energy, transport and broadband Internet were priorities. [ID:nL6N0S43WC] Despite an urgent need to tackle near record unemployment, concerns about rushing into projects that will not have a clear economic pay-off mean efforts are proceeding cautiously. A list of projects and ways to finance them will be presented in December, delaying a pledge made in Milan last month to have something ready for this week's meeting. France and Italy, the euro zone's second and third largest economies respectively, are relying on Germany to increase public spending because they are unable to as the European Commission deems their debt and deficits to be too high. Following a crisis that nearly broke it apart, the euro zone now has strict rules that seek to force countries to live within their means and the executive Commission can reject budgets. But Rome and Paris have been encouraged by calls from the European Central Bank and the IMF, who want to see countries using government money prudently to avoid the euro zone slipping into its third recession since 2008. That means Germany, Europe's biggest economy, which is deemed to have room to spend after posting its biggest budget surplus since reunification in the first half of 2014. "For governments that have fiscal space it makes sense to use it. You decide to which countries this sentence applies," ECB President Mario Draghi said in Washington. Following the Luxembourg meeting, euro zone leaders will hold a summit on Oct. 24 in Brussels to discuss the economy and which will see more sparring over the spending issue.   (Editing by Catherine Evans) FREE AppDownload
Kevin Lamarque/ReutersWarren harshly criticized President Obama in a recent interview with Salon.Sen. Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts harshly criticized President Obama and his economic advisers during a long interview with Salon that focuses on economic issues. At one point, the interviewer, Thomas Frank, mentions how he and his friends “are pretty disappointed” with Obama’s track record on protecting the little guy from moneyed interests. Warren said she “understands” the frustration, making it clear she feels the same way. “He picked his economic team and when the going got tough, his economic team picked Wall Street,” Warren said. Frank answers that it seems the economic team “just about every time” sided with Wall Street.” Warren agrees: That’s right. They protected Wall Street. Not families who were losing their homes. Not people who lost their jobs. Not young people who were struggling to get an education. And it happened over and over and over.  At the same time, Warren does have some praise for Obama, saying she’s convinced that if he hadn’t been president “we would not have a Consumer Financial Protection Bureau” because “he was the one who refused to throw the agency under the bus and made sure that his team kept the agency alive and on the table.” FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersLogos of Deutsche Bank AG are seen in Tokyo(Reuters) - Senior bankers at Deutsche Bank AG &lt;dbkgn.de&gt; are leaving the bank amid a crackdown on bad behavior by traders, as the bank undergoes a probe by global regulators into allegations of attempts to rig markets, the Financial Times reported on Sunday. The bank is planning to stop rewarding the best earners on the trading floor with bonuses or promotions if they are "disruptive" or are not seen as team players, the newspaper said. These bankers are drifting away from traditional banking to less regulated areas like hedge fund management and boutique firms, the newspaper said. Deutsche Bank has been facing a set of investigations by regulators involving allegations that benchmark interest rates were manipulated and that some investors were unfairly favored in off-market trading venues known as dark pools. The newspaper reported that other banks like Barclays &lt;barc.l&gt; are also in the process of introducing similar measures, after its bonus culture was cited as one of the factors that led to the Libor manipulation rate scandal. Barclays is introducing a company-wide bonus policy this year for bankers who stick to the British bank's values and behavioral guidelines. Barclays, which is also being investigated over the Libor case, recently agreed to pay $20 million to settle a U.S class action suit. The newspaper said that senior bankers are now operating in a much tighter environment, with an emphasis on following non-binding ethical codes along with the rules. Regulators have sued around 16 banks, including Barclays and UBS, for rigging the Libor rate. Deutsche Bank declined to comment further late Sunday night. Barclays could not be reached outside regular business hours. (Editing by Eric Walsh) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersView of the BPCE banking group headquarters during the company's 2011 annual results presentation in ParisPARIS/FRANKFURT (Reuters) - One of France's largest banks is teaming up with social network Twitter Inc. &lt;twtr.n&gt; this week to allow its customers to transfer money via tweets. The move by Groupe BPCE, France's second largest bank by customers, coincides with Twitter's own push into the world of online payments as the social network seeks new sources of revenue beyond advertising. Twitter is racing other tech giants Apple  and Facebook to get a foothold in new payment services for mobile phones or apps. They are collaborating and, in some cases, competing with banks and credit card issuers that have run the business for decades. The bank said last month it was prepared to offer simple person-to-person money transfers via Twitter to French consumers, regardless of what bank they use, and without requiring the sender know the recipient's banking details. "(S-Money) offers Twitter users in France a new way to send each other money, irrespective of their bank and without having to enter the beneficiary's bank details, with a simple tweet," Nicolas Chatillon, chief executive of S-Money,  BPCE's mobile payments unit, said in the statement. Payment by tweets will be managed via the bank's S-Money service, which allows money transfers via text message and relies on the credit-card industry's data security standards. BPCE and Twitter declined to provide further details ahead of a news conference in Paris on Tuesday to unveil the service. Last month, Twitter started trials of its own new service, dubbed "Twitter Buy",  to allow consumers to find and buy products on its social network. (http://bit.ly/1usnbBG) The service embeds a "Twitter Buy" button inside tweets posted by more than two dozen stores, music artists and non-profits. Burberry &lt;brby.l&gt;, Home Depot &lt;hd.n&gt;, and musicians such as Pharrell and Megadeth are among the early vendors. Twitter's role to date has been to connect customers rather than processing payments or checking their identities. "From the Twitter point of view, there is a limit to their appetite for getting involved in payments processing itself," said Andrew Copeman, a payments analyst with financial services research firm AITE Group, who is based in Edinburgh, Scotland. "At the moment, banks are probably viewing Twitter and other social media networks as marketing channels to reach a wider set of their customers and to extend the bank's existing mobile banking initiatives," he said. Twitter's success in developing additional services on its platform as Facebook has done will be key to its future profitability. Rakuten Bank &lt;4755.T&gt; in Japan offers a similar "Transfer by Facebook" service that lets users of its mobile banking app send money to anyone in their Facebook friends list. Investors have been worried about Twitter's slowing user growth, sending the shares down about 17 percent this year, while rival Facebook's have climbed 35 percent. Thomas Husson, a marketing strategy analyst with Forrester Research, said Twitter was likely to multiply efforts to explore new ways to generate revenue with banks and credit card firms. "Twitter wants to more explicitly demonstrate the overall value of its network as an advertising platform," he said. (Editing by David Evans) FREE AppDownload
United-ICAPLast week's stock market sell-off put the Dow Jones Industrial Average in the red for the year. "What strikes me most about all this is the sheer complacency," said Walter Zimmerman, chief technical analyst for United-ICAP. "The most pervasive reaction to the recent sharp drops in the equity indices seems to be ‘What is this doing here? I thought we were finally done with stock market declines.’" As a technical analyst, Zimmerman pays a lot of attention to chart patterns and the statistics behind them. However, his current concerns about the stock market are echoed by those who focus on fundamentals. These concerns include deflation and the discontinuance of the Federal Reserve's monetary stimulus. "I was wondering when the equity markets would start playing catch-up to the great asset deflation that has been the scourge of the commodity markets since May 2011," Zimmerman said in an email to Business Insider. "Looks like we can now add the global equity markets to the great asset deflation parade." Indeed, even gold — considered a safe haven asset class by some — has been getting punished. Zimmerman sent Business Insider two sets of slides. The first set features the Russell 2000, an index of small and mid-cap stocks, and the DAX, an index of German stocks. The second puts the global markets into context characterizing it like a roller coaster with the Federal Reserve at the control panel. "This widespread reaction tells me that everyone is long and un-hedged," he said. "Of course this decline is so sweeping in its extent that it seems quite likely the only effective hedge will be the side-lines."
Getty Images/ Alan Crowhurst Looking ahead to what the future for the global economy.Three prominent Wall Street strategists recently shared their outlooks for global financial markets with Canadian investment professionals gathered in Toronto for the CFA Society Toronto’s 57th Annual Forecast Dinner. Charles Brandes, CFA, founder and chairman of Brandes Investment Partners; Russ Koesterich, CFA, chief investment strategist at BlackRock; and Christian Stracke, global head of credit research at PIMCO, spoke with guarded optimism, and their predictions included calls for slow growth, increased volatility, and a comeback for active management. Their presentations are summarized below. Brandes is the author of "Value Investing Today" and is a value investor in the mold of Benjamin Graham, so it was fitting that he began by quoting Graham: “Everybody in Wall St. is so smart that their brilliance offsets each other. And that whatever they know is already reflected in the level of stock prices, pretty much, and consequently, what happens in the future represents what they don’t know.” Brandes closed with more wisdom from Graham: “What happens in the future we don’t know. If you base your decisions on value, you will.” Koesterich is author of "The ETF Strategist" and "The Ten Trillion Dollar Gamble". Stracke opened by noting, with tongue in cheek, that “things are pretty boring in Newport Beach right now,” a not so subtle reference to the recent departure of PIMCO co-founder Bill Gross, CFA. Stracke also cautioned about the deteriorating quality of debt issuances, including covenant-lite loans. FREE AppDownload
 ReutersBranson activates the propane burner of a hot-air balloon to inflate it before flying over Marrakesh, Morocco. Richard Branson owns an airline, of course, and within a matter of months he plans to head into space. But beyond that, the CEO of the Virgin Group has set world records in four modes of transport — boating, ballooning, amphibious vehicle, and kite surfing. Yet in his mind not all his adventures are created equal. “My favorite mode of transport is hot-air ballooning,” Branson told The Wall Street Journal recently. “It's so graceful to be blown by the wind, to go where the wind takes you." And in an interview with Henry Blodget, Branson suggested that people who devote an hour a day to keeping fit may get in an extra two to three hours of very productive work as a result. How can he afford to do this? "By knowing that if my balloon goes down tomorrow," he replied, "I have a fantastic team of people who will keep Virgin on the road." Branson's love affair with hot-air balloons began in the mid-1980s. With business at Virgin Records and Virgin Atlantic booming, Branson began pursuing challenges of a physical and engineering nature. After a successful boating stunt that saw him beat the world record for crossing the Atlantic Ocean, Branson set his sights on another world record: crossing the Atlantic by hot-air balloon. Because he knew little about ballooning, Branson trained for three years by practicing skydiving, water survival, and balloon flight. In July 1987, Branson and his copilot, Per Lindstrand, an experienced balloonist, set out from Sugarloaf, Maine, with the goal of reaching western Scotland. ReutersBranson points out other hot-air balloons flying over Marrakesh. The first part went off mostly without a hitch. They made the 2,900-mile journey in one and half days, but as the duo attempted to land, they hit difficulties. The mechanism that was supposed to eject the capsule from the balloon failed in Ireland and they were forced to continue flying over the Irish Sea. The balloon repeatedly dipped into the sea, making a clean landing look more and more unlikely. When the balloon was 60 feet above the water, Lindstrand advised that they jump. Lindstrand went first, but as soon as he left the capsule, the balloon rocketed to 12,000 feet. Branson didn’t expect that he would come out alive. He debated skydiving out of the capsule, but a near-death experience skydiving during training dissuaded him. “I climbed back into the capsule and just desperately tried to make sure that I was making the right decision,” Branson said in an interview with TED. Channeling crisis moments he’d experienced in his businesses, Branson calmed himself and used the balloon as a parachute, guiding it back toward the water and jumping once he was 50 feet above the water. He and Lindstrand were plucked out of the water by the Royal Navy, though Lindstrand reportedly had to swim for two hours in the cold water. At the end of the journey, Branson swore off ballooning, but the bug had bit him. Within a few years, Branson was attempting something even more daring. Reuters/Eriko SugitaRichard Branson and Per Lindstrand smile and wave to a crowd of 10,000 before lift-off from Miyakonojo, Japan, in their attempt to fly across the Pacific. In 1991, Branson made the second of his record-breaking flights, becoming the first to cross the Pacific Ocean in a hot-air balloon. The trip, this time with Lindstrand and American millionaire Steve Fossett, was an unmitigated disaster that Branson was lucky to escape from.  In an interview with Inc., Branson laid out the trip in chilling detail: Everything went wrong. We lost two-thirds of our fuel. We were only 1,000 miles into the trip, with 7,000 more miles to go. We had to average 180 miles per hour in a balloon [to make it across] .... I was facing almost certain death …. We could have just slumped on the floor and accepted our fate or try to fly the balloon into the core of the jet stream and find the strongest winds you can find, stay awake for three days, and do everything you can to avoid what, on paper, looked like a sad ending. Miraculously, the team found their way into the jet stream and were shot across to the Canadian Arctic, missing their destination (Los Angeles) by 4,000 miles. The team broke existing records for flight duration and distance, reaching speeds of 245 mph. It was the luckiest of outcomes. ReutersThe Global Challenger flies over the Atlas Mountains during an attempt to fly around the world. Despite the mess of the Pacific flight, Branson refused to back down. Over the next seven years, he made four attempts at achieving the most difficult (and to that point never done) ballooning feat ever: circumnavigating the world. He failed every time, more than once failing in spectacular style. One attempt saw Branson, Lindstrand, and Fossett crash-landing in the Sahara and being taken hostage by an Algerian warlord. Branson has described it as “the most sort-of-luxurious kidnapping ever.” Another occasion found the balloonists accidentally crossing the Himalayas over Mount Everest and K2. As they began to come out the other side of the mountains, they encountered the Chinese Air Force, which threatened to shoot them down. It took a few frantic calls from Branson’s secretary to British diplomats to sort that debacle out. Branson’s most successful attempt had his team beating existing distance records, but landing in Hawaii after they fell out of the jet stream. His numerous adventures, which have raised his profile and the brand recognition of Virgin, have been criticized by many as mere publicity stunts. While he recognizes that his ballooning and boating helped make Virgin a global brand, he has rejected the idea that he did anything for any reason other than pure joy and curiosity at the challenge. “The P.R. experts actually have said that as an airline owner the last thing I should be doing is heading off in balloons and boats and crashing into the sea …. And they have a point,” Branson told Chris Andersen during an interview with TED in 2007. “When I went over on the Virgin Atlantic Flyer, our airline took a full-page ad which said something like ‘Come on, Richard, there are better ways of crossing the Atlantic.’” In 1999, Branson gave up his pursuit of a global hot-air balloon flight after he was beaten to the punch by British balloonist Brian Jones and Swiss Bertrand Piccard.   United States Coast Guard, AMT2 Marc AlarconBranson, Fossett, and Lindstrand land near Hawaii after a failed around-the-world balloon attempt. Though Branson has continued his daredevil antics in different ways, these days he devotes more of his immense energy toward pursuing philanthropic and humanitarian efforts, including reform of drug laws, resolution of global conflicts, and environmentalism. “The ballooning and boating helped put Virgin on the map on a global basis,’’ Branson told The New Yorker’s Michael Specter in 2007. “I certainly regret none of it. But there are quite a lot of important things going on right now on this planet and I don’t really want to kill myself in a stupid way. It didn’t seem to matter as much when I was young. I had everything to lose and I wasn’t reticent to lose it. But if the question is how would I wish to be remembered, I guess I would have to say not as somebody who spent his life in a balloon.” But as his recent comment indicates, the allure still stays with him: “It's so graceful to be blown by the wind, to go where the wind takes you.” Who Wouldn't Try It If They Could? Watch My Afternoon Spent Flying High Above New York:    
Cpl. Reece Lodder/U.S. Marine Corps US fund manager John Hussman is out with his latest weekly Market Comment ominously titled “Air-Pockets, Free-Falls, and Crashes”. It’s a piece which warns of the potential for large downside risk after last week’s trade which saw the S&amp;P 500 have, on consecutive days, both its biggest fall and largest rise for the year. That’s volatility. Over the weekend, traders and investors would have had time to think about their exposure to the market, the risk of further losses, and what they might do to ameliorate the damage that could occur in their investment portfolio in the days and weeks ahead. Hussman warns that the current market condition of “overvalued, overbought, overbullish extremes” is consistent with mostly positive week to week returns with a risk of “large, abrupt losses”. Present conditions create an urgency to examine all risk exposures. Once overvalued, overbought, overbullish extremes are joined by deterioration in market internals and trend-uniformity, one finds a narrow set comprising less than 5% of history that contains little but abrupt air-pockets, free-falls, and crashes. Hussman says that traders don’t even need to get outright bearish or “require forecasts about market direction”. They just need to start practising prudent risk management and the market will see traders selling stocks, buying put options and going into cash. We view the strongest market return/risk profiles, and the best opportunities for unhedged investment, as coupling a material retreat in valuations with an early improvement in market internals. Now is the antithesis of those conditions. A forecast is not fact, but once again, we have all been warned. You can read Hussman’s full weekly comment here Follow Business Insider Australia on Facebook, Twitter, and LinkedIn This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Mary Robnett/Business InsiderCornell's campus overlooking Lake Cayuga, in Ithaca, New York.When picking a college, location can sometimes be just as important as academics. The American Institute of Economic Research has released its latest College Destination Index, which compared college towns across the country based on their academic environment, quality of life, and professional opportunity. The index separated the destinations by population size. Here we have rounded up the best of the small college towns, all with populations under 250,000. We have included select statistics about each town; click here to see the full report. FREE AppDownload
Many people have trouble getting to sleep or waking up in the middle of the night – here are the reasons and how to fix the problem. Produced by Matt JohnstonFollow BI Video: On Facebook
Thomson ReutersHunter Harrison, CEO of Canadian Pacific Railway Limited addresses shareholders at the company's annual general meeting in Calgary(Reuters) - Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd  has approached CSX Corp  about merging the two North American railroad operators, according to the Wall Street Journal. The offer was made in the past week and was rebuffed, the newspaper said on Sunday, citing people briefed on the matter. It added that it was unclear if Canadian Pacific has shelved the plan. Canadian Pacific spokesman Martin Cej and CSX spokeswoman Melanie Cost both told Reuters their companies do not comment on market rumors. Canadian Pacific, Canada's No. 2 railway by revenue, has a market value of about $32 billion, while Florida-based CSX, the No. 3 U.S. carrier, is worth about $30 billion, though it generates more revenue, the Journal said. Activist investor William Ackman is on Canadian Pacific's board and his hedge fund has a big stake in the company. Potential obstacles to a deal include obtaining consent from the U.S. Surface Transportation Board, which oversees railroads, as well as from U.S. national security officials, the paper said.  (Reporting by John McCrank in New York; Editing by Eric Walsh) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Anatoly UstinenkoAn aerial view shows artificial islands on Kashagan offshore oil field in the Caspian sea, western Kazakhstan, April 7, 2013. Picture taken April 7, 2013. WHEN it was discovered in 2000, the Kashagan oilfield in Kazakhstan's waters in the northern Caspian Sea was the world's biggest oil find in three decades. By now it was supposed to be pumping out 1.2m barrels a day (mbd), enough to meet Spain's entire consumption. But the project, whose name sounds unfortunately like "cash all gone", went spectacularly awry. A year ago, when the first trickle of crude briefly flowed, it was already eight years behind schedule. Having cost $43 billion, it was $30 billion over budget. And production lasted only a few weeks before leaks of poisonous gas forced its suspension. Earlier this month a government minister admitted it would not restart until at least 2016. Undeterred by the Kashagan fiasco, this week the government said it would approve a plan to expand the onshore Tengiz oilfield, another huge budget-buster. Tengiz was first expected to cost $23 billion but the government said this week that the bill had risen to $40 billion. Each of the two oilfields is owned by a different consortium of foreign firms and the state oil company, KazMunaiGaz. In Kashagan's case they include Exxon, Shell, Total and ENI. In part the project's setbacks are due to unexpected technical problems. Corrosive and poisonous hydrogen sulphide gas, pumped up from the seabed along with the oil, has eaten through pipes bringing it onshore. REUTERS/Leon NealA general view shows the Bolashak oil plant on the Kashagan offshore oil field near Atyrau in Kazakhstan June 30, 2013.  It may cost another $5 billion to fix the problem. But insiders say privately that with so many companies involved, the project has lacked clear leadership and suffered from government meddling. Investors of all kinds worry about "the declining predictability of Kazakhstan's regulatory and legal environment", says Mariyam Zhumadil of Halyk Finance, an investment bank in the commercial capital, Almaty. In 2010 the government filed a $1.2 billion tax claim against the consortium that operates another field, Karachaganak, while making noises about breaches of environmental rules, not long after expressing an interest in buying a stake in the field. Later the consortium gave it 10% in return for it agreeing to expand the field. Likewise, at Kashagan, environmental officials have fined the field's operators $737m for burning off the poisonous gas, which the consortium argues was an emergency measure. Ms Zhumadil reckons the fine is a "tool for future negotiations, perhaps to strengthen the national oil company's presence in the project." This may not be the best way to encourage foreign firms to pump in the tens of billions of dollars more that are still needed to develop Kazakhstan's oilfields. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA potential customer looks at a 2009 Chevrolet Impala sedan at a car dealership in Dearborn, MichiganNEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. regulators are asking banks for more detail on their autos financing exposure, as rapid growth in the lending has prompted officials to seek to better assess the risks, according to a person familiar with the matter.  Balances remaining on auto loans have risen by about a third since April 2011, reaching an all-time high of $924.2 billion in August, according to credit reporting bureau Equifax. About a fifth of the loans are subprime. Banking regulators fear that reckless lending may be at least helping to fuel that growth, and there are early signs that delinquencies are increasing in the sector. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau said in September that it is taking steps to oversee auto lenders that have previously been less regulated, and companies like GM Financial and Santander Consumer USA Holdings Inc disclosed earlier this year that the Department of Justice is looking into their auto finance practices, The person familiar with the matter said regulators are asking banks for information about not just loans they made, but financing they have provided to other lenders in the sector, such as credit lines to finance companies. At least one regulatory agency is looking at this area, according to the person, and it was unclear if other agencies were also looking. The Federal Reserve, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp, and state agencies all regulate U.S. banks. Getting a handle on this information is difficult for regulators, but is also vital. During the financial crisis, banks often publicly disclosed the total mortgages they held and how many of those were subprime, only to reveal months later that they had tens of billions of additional exposure from secured loans to subprime mortgage finance companies, subprime mortgage bonds that were packaged into new bonds, and so on. These extra exposures turned what seemed like manageable problems into catastrophes that threatened the entire financial system.     REUTERS/Baz Ratner  Banks can have just as many different kinds of exposure to auto loans as they have to mortgages. Wells Fargo &amp; Co, for example, is the largest U.S. auto lender, with $50.8 billion outstanding at the end of 2013. About $15 billion of that was subprime. It is also the largest underwriter of bonds backed by subprime auto loans, having sold $3.3 billion of these securities this year, according to industry publication Asset-Backed Alert. In addition, since 2011 Wells Fargo has extended more than $1.5 billion of credit lines to some of the largest subprime car lenders through its Des Moines, Iowa-based subsidiary Wells Fargo Preferred Capital Inc., according to merger advisory firm Colonnade Advisors LLC. Other banks, including Capital One Financial Corp and JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co are also players in the business of lending to auto finance companies, according to Colonnade. Wells Fargo declined to comment. Chase and Capital One did not immediately comment. "Banks are making a lot of money off these (auto) loans in many different ways," said Ira Rheingold, executive director of the National Association of Consumer Advocates. To be sure, these types of exposures are relatively small for a bank like Wells Fargo, which has $1.5 trillion of assets, a net worth of about $180 billion as measured by equity, and a market value of about $264 billion. Of course, car loans are smaller than home loans – there is about nine times as much mortgage debt outstanding in the United States as auto debt. The loans are also shorter-lived than mortgages, meaning borrowers pay more off every year. And repossessing the collateral is much easier than for a home loan. Few analysts currently fear a subprime auto meltdown on par with the mortgage crisis. If auto finance companies that specialize in subprime loans fail in an economic downturn, they may not present much of a wider danger to the financial system. "The subprime auto sector appears too small to present a systemic risk," Bank of America Merrill Lynch economist Michael Hanson wrote in an October report. "It does not appear to be in bubble territory, but bears watching." And while there are growing concerns about the world economy, which has been reflected in recent declines in U.S. and global stock markets, the U.S. economy has been increasingly buoyant, with the jobless rate sliding below 6 percent and new auto sales strong. It is also too early to tell what regulators will find, and there is no indication of any wrongdoing by the banks. Wells Fargo executives have downplayed the risks of the bank's own auto loan exposure. Finance chief John Shrewsberry said in July that the credit scores and other measures of the health of its consumer portfolio of auto loans "has improved not only over the last 5 years, but improved meaningfully from pre-crisis levels."  Reuters But auto loans can still be risky, and are showing signs of stress. The share of borrowers who are 60 days behind on their auto loan payments rose 7 percent in the second quarter from a year earlier, and the repossession rate rose over 70 percent in the same period, according to Experian Automotive, though both rates are still near historical lows. Used car prices fell for the fifth consecutive month in October, which hurts the amount of money banks can get from selling cars that they repossess.   "Every metric is moving in the wrong direction if you're worried about risk, though it's not going so fast that it's alarming," said Colonnade Managing Director Christopher Gillock. Unlike property, cars tend to depreciate in value over time, a factor that can add to a bank's losses for every loan that goes bad. If the economy slows down and lenders find themselves with large numbers of bad car loans, that selling pressure could hurt the value of the collateral for loans. In a slow economy, auto dealers often slash prices for new cars, hurting used car values even more. The independent auto finance companies that banks are funding, including Exeter Finance Corp and Westlake Financial Services Inc, tend to cater heavily to subprime borrowers. Nearly 75 percent of auto loans that finance companies made in the second quarter went to subprime borrowers compared with 18.1 percent for banks, according to Experian Automotive. Wells Fargo has already experienced headaches from lending money to auto finance companies. In April, New York Superintendent of Financial Services Benjamin Lawsky brought a case against auto finance company Condor Capital, which Lawsky accused of keeping millions of dollars of customer rebates for itself. Wells had extended Condor $261 million of loans under a credit facility around the time Lawsky had moved to shut the company down. Wells sought in court to reclaim that money, but the funds have been tied up for six months while the receiver searches for a lender to refinance or purchase Condor’s loan portfolio. Wells Fargo has recovered some money, and its current exposure is around $200 million.  (Reporting by Peter Rudegeair in New York; Editing by Dan Wilchins and Martin Howell) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Luke MacGregorMohamed A. El-Erian answers five questions for Business Insider ahead of Monday’s stock market open. Is too much attention being devoted to last week’s selloff? Probably, but understandably so. After all it involved the worse weekly selloff for the S&amp;P in two years and the biggest daily drop for the Dow this year. In the process, it erased much of this year’s gains for stock indices around the world, including sending the Dow into negative territory. Also notable is the return of volatility. Last week alone, the cumulative (up and down) daily movements in the Dow exceeded 2,000, or 10% of the value of this major index. Such volatility, especially if it continues, dampens the enthusiasm of those looking to buy on dips. What were the key drivers of the sell-off? First, and foremost, deteriorating global growth prospects on the back of a shockingly disappointing IP number out of Germany (namely a 4% contraction in industrial output) and additional downward revisions in IMF and World Back forecasts. Second, indications of a hardening in divergent policy positions in Europe, including a renewed public rift between German officials and the European Central Bank. Third, an initial level of market prices that is well above that warranted by fundamentals; and that was before indications of weakening economic and policy fundamentals. What are other markets signaling? Two markets are particularly worrisome in this regard: commodities and government bonds. The sustained, sharp and broad-based price decline in commodities is consistent with a significant global economic slowdown. Similarly for the fall in yields on government bonds. Including negative rates for a growing part of the short-term German bond market.   Did anything happen over the weekend to dampen concerns? Yes. Central bankers struck a more dovish tone, stressing that their policies would remain highly accommodative. In doing so, they are looking to, again, attract cash into the markets, bolster asset prices and repress volatility – not because they wish to make investors rich but because, acting essentially without the help of other policymakers, it’s the only approach they believe they have to bolster economic activity. What are the really big economic and policy questions out there and that are of direct relevance to markets? I can think of at least three. First, and related to what happened this weekend, will central banks succeed in restoring market calm and buy more time for the emergence of a more durable and comprehensive policy response? Second, will politicians enable other policymaking entities to step up to their economic responsibilities and take some of the burden off over-stretched central banks? Third, will macro-prudential measures proves sufficient to deal with the negative spillover effects of pockets of excessive risk-taking induced by the prolonged reliance on unconventional monetary policies? FREE AppDownload
ReutersReal estate developer Donald Trump during an Aug. 12 news conference to announce his first project in Mumbai. Donald Trump catapulted himself into the spotlight with his gilded real estate ventures and vibrant personality. The latter is what has made his show "The Apprentice" such a huge success. And over the years, he's had an opinion or two about the business world. "In the end, you're measured not by how much you undertake but by what you finally accomplish," Trump once said. Here, we check in on 11 Trump businesses to see what became of them over the years. Editor's Note: The first version of this post declared some of these businesses "bust" when they are, in fact, still in operation. Those errors have been corrected. FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ John Adkisson John Stumpf. He also CC'd 200,000 other Wells Fargo employees on the email to CEO John Stumpf. Talk about some chutzpah! Oates confirmed to The Oregonian that a copy of the letter posted on Reddit was authentic. In the letter, Oates brought up the issue of income inequality. He pointed out that Stumpf took home $19 million in compensation for 2013. He also made a request that the company raise every employee's salary by $10,000 to "show the rest of the United States, if not the world that, yes big corporations can have a heart other than philanthropic endeavors." "My proposal is take $3 billion dollars, just a small fraction of what Wells Fargo pulls in annually, and raise every employees annual salary by $10,000 dollars. This equates to an hourly raise about $4.71 per hour. Think, as well, of the positive publicity in a time of extreme consumer skepticism towards banks," Oates wrote. Oates told the Charlotte Observer that he had been with Wells Fargo for about seven years. He started out making $13 per hour. Now his hourly rate is $15, the report said.  Stumpf, 60, actually comes from humble beginnings, too. He grew up on a dairy farm in Minnesota. He didn't make good grades in high school and didn't have much money, so he ended up working as a bread maker after graduation. Eventually, he got into St. Cloud University and landed a job at First Bank in St. Paul as a repossession agent. He ultimately ended up getting his MBA from the University of Minnesota.  Here's the letter [via Reddit] Mr. Stumpf, With the increasing focus on income inequality in the United States. Wells Fargo has an opportunity to be at the forefront of helping to reduce this by setting the bar, leading by example, and showing the other large corporations that it is very possible to maintain a profitable company that not only looks out for its consumers and shareholders, but its employees as well. This year Wells Fargo in its second quarter alone had a net income of $5.7 billion, and total revenue of $21.1 billion. These are very impressive numbers, and is obvious evidence that Wells Fargo is one of, if not the most profitable company in the nation right now. So, why not take some of this and distribute it to the rest of the employees. Sure, the company provides while not great, some pretty good benefits, as well as discretionary profit sharing for those who partake in our 401k program. While the benefits are nice, the profit sharing through the 401k only goes to make the company itself and its shareholders more profitable, and not really boost the income of the thousands of us here every day making this company the prestigious power house that it is. Last year, you had pulled in over $19 million, more than most of the employees will see in our lifetimes. It is understood that your position carries a lot of weight and responsibility; however, with a base salary of $2.8 million and bonuses equating to $4 million, is alone one of the main arguments of income inequality. Where the vast majority, the undeniable profit drivers, with the exception of upper management positions barely make enough to live comfortably on their own, the distribution of income in this company is no better than that of the other big players in the corporate world. My estimate is that Wells Fargo has roughly around 300,000 employees. My proposal is take $3 billion dollars, just a small fraction of what Wells Fargo pulls in annually, and raise every employees annual salary by $10,000 dollars. This equates to an hourly raise about $4.71 per hour. Think, as well, of the positive publicity in a time of extreme consumer skepticism towards banks. By doing this, Wells Fargo will not only help to make its people, its family, more happy, productive, and financially stable, it will also show the rest of the United States, if not the world that, yes big corporations can have a heart other than philanthropic endeavors. P.S. – To all of my fellow team members who receive a copy of this email. Though Wells Fargo does not allow the formation of unions, this does not mean we cannot stand united. Each and every one of us plays an integral part in the success of this company. It is time that we ask, no, it is time that we demand to be rightfully compensated for the hard work that we accomplish, and for the great part we all have played in the success of this company. There are many of us out there who come to work every day and give it our all, yet, we struggle to make ends meet while our peers in upper management and company executives reap the majority of the rewards. One of our lowest scored TMCS questions is that our opinions matter. Well they do! This email has been sent to hundreds of thousands Wells Fargo employees, (as many as I could cc from the outlook global address book). And while the voice of one person in a world as large as ours may seem only like a whisper, the combined voices of each and all of us can move mountains! With the warmest of regards,   FREE AppDownload
Leroy W. Demery Jr.Macau is the world's gambling Mecca — a place that exploded from nothing at the end of the 1990s, to averaging 19% growth for the last decade.  That is nothing short of wild success. But now it seems the island's fortunes are turning. A corruption crackdown and a massive heist have slowed the flow of high-rollers onto the island. Moreover, the Chinese economy is slowing across the board as the government sticks to its commitment to tighten monetary policy. All of this is making it harder for middle class gamblers to spend on games of Baccarat. Wells Fargo analysts expect Macau to post a 20%-23% year over year decline in casino revenue for October. That's worse than the decline in revenue experienced during 2009, while the financial crisis was rocking the globe. All of that said, Macau is still one of the world's most amazing growth stories. It is no small thing that what was once a sleepy Portuguese colony jas turned into the world's gambling center of sin. In the summer of 1980, Leroy W. Demery, Jr., an expert in Asian transportation, visited the country (then still a Portuguese protectorate) and documented his journey.  He posted his copyrighted photo collection to flickr, and with his kind permission we have reproduced the snapshots here. I traveled by overnight ferry from Hong Kong to Macao, spent the day (1980 July 16) in Macao, then returned to Hong Kong by overnight ferry. "Overnight ferry" for a 60 km distance? Yes, one boarded the vessel about 10 p.m. The fare included a bunk in an air-conditioned dormitory - "Spartan" but very comfortable. The vessel sailed after midnight and certainly arrived within 3-4 hours. Passengers were awakened at about 6 a.m., as I remember. Yes, catamarans and jetfoils were much faster, but fares were higher, and the overnight ferry permitted one to save the cost of overnight accommodation. Macao, in 1980, was quiet. Very quiet. It had a distinct "small town" atmosphere that contrasted sharply with the Central District of nearby Hong Kong. Much has changed since then. Remarkably, the land area has nearly doubled, from about 16 square km to nearly 29 square km. Many of the images in this set are certainly "vanished scenes." I regret that do not have a 1980 street map of Macao, and so am not able to locate some of these images. Anyway, read on to take the journey to Old Macau. (Rob Wile contributed to an early version of this report) FREE AppDownload
Harrison Jacobs/Business Insider"Living the dream" can mean a lot of different things. To some, it's a life spent kicking back on a beach with an endless supply of Mai Tais. To others, it could be traveling all over the world, meeting new people, and experiencing a hundred different cultures. And to others, it is a dream job in which you get paid to do the things you love.  Whatever your concept of "living the dream," we've come up with a list of people who are without a doubt living their dreams (and maybe yours, too).  The 15 people on this list have often taken extraordinary risks and worked hard to build lives that let them do what they always dreamed of, whether that's shooting into space, playing video games all day, or living full-time in the wilderness. FREE AppDownload
Daniel Goodman / Business Insider Washington (AFP) - The International Monetary Fund was launched in 1944 with the world's new superpower, the United States, in position as the key force and shareholder in the global crisis bank. Today, China is on the verge of becoming the world's largest economy.  But its voice at the IMF -- wrapping up its annual meeting this weekend in Washington -- remains that of a minor country, and some worry this could undermine the crucial, 70-year-old institution. The IMF estimates that by the end of this year, China's economy will surpass the US in size: $17.63 trillion versus $17.42 trillion, based on the purchasing power parity standard. On a more traditional basis, linked to current prices, the clearly much more affluent United States still leads by a wide margin. But there is no debate about China's rise to power in the industrial world. And its growth rate, at 7.4 percent this year, still far outpaces that of the rest of the advanced economies. The IMF has had difficulty conforming to this new global power balance. The US holds 16.7 percent of the voting power in the Fund, which gives it an effective veto over any major changes in its structure and activities. China meanwhile has a 3.8 percent voting share, not far from Italy's, which has an economy one-fifth the size.  And the US Congress's repeated refusal to ratify a four-year-old set of reforms that would boost China, India and other emerging powers at the institution is beginning to cut into the Fund's stature. "The risk for the IMF is that it will become less and less relevant and increasingly illegitimate," said Paulo Nogueira Batista, the IMF representative of Brazil and 10 other countries, speaking on his own behalf. © AFP AFPWorkers assemble electric cars in a factory in Zouping, east China's Shandong province on September 16, 2014  The 2010 reforms would change quotas, effectively their voting power, for shareholders and also sharply increase the IMF's overall financial resources, crucial for conducting huge operations like the rescue of Greece and Ireland and, most recently, support for Ukraine. The reforms have been endorsed by all other major economies. But to be implemented, they need US backing. The administration of President Barack Obama has endorsed them from the beginning, but repeatedly has been unable to persuade Congress to ratify the pact. The problem has gone on for so long that some are talking of seeking an alternative to the current governance. Clearly frustrated, IMF Managing Director Christine Lagarde said Thursday that she would perform a belly dance in front of the US Congress if they were to ratify the reforms. "It was due in 2012. It is overdue in 2014," she said. Agustin Carstens, Mexico's central bank governor and a former IMF deputy managing director, highlighted the importance of the Fund maintaining legitimacy. "It's important because the IMF provides policy advice. And for it to be followed, it needs to come from a legitimate institution," Carstens said. Another former IMF official, Peter Doyle, told AFP: "The rise of China and India have rendered the IMF voting rights allocation not just unfair and illegitimate, but ridiculous." Lagarde stressed that, even with the skewed voting rights, China, India and other emerging powers are generously represented in the top management circle of the Fund. That includes Chinese economist Min Zhu as a deputy managing director. Some say even the 2010 reforms won't rectify the situation.  For one, China's voting share will only rise to 6.1 percent. "Even the delayed 2010 quota reform represents only a modest step towards changing the governance structure of the IMF to reflect shifting economic realities," Eswar Prasad, a former IMF official, told AFP. According to Nogueira Batista, there is still stiff resistance to change inside the institution, including from Europeans. "The US has been incapable of delivering, and the Europeans have been hiding behind this lack of delivery on the part of the US to postpone the other elements of the process," he said.     FREE AppDownload
Keith Bedford/Reuters Women have limitless options for where to buy clothes. To help narrow it down, we're seeking your input on the best places to buy apparel for every occasion.  Please take a few minutes to fill out the survey below. Thanks in advance for your time and cooperation. We'll publish the results in a couple of weeks. FREE AppDownload
Stocks in Dubai crashed 6.5% on Sunday. This was the biggest drop in four months and brings the Dubai Financial Market General Index to its lowest level since July 20, according to Bloomberg.  Dubai, which like many Middle East exchanges is open from Sunday to Thursday, led a broad sell-off in Middle East stocks, as markets in Israel, Qatar, and Saudi Arabia also sold off on Sunday. Hisham Khairy, the Dubai-based head of institutional trade at Mena Corp. Financial Services, told Bloomberg that, "Global markets are all selling off and it’s that weakness we’re tracking. There’s still more blood to come." Last week, US stocks fell more than 2.5% across the board, with the S&amp;P 500 falling 3.1% and the Nasdaq losing more than 4%.  And so after last week's ugly action, markets around the world still look unsettled; US futures trading opens at 6 p.m. ET. Here's the one-day chart of Sunday's trading in Dubai. Bloomberg.com FREE AppDownload
Next week, the “big banks” as they are often referred to, will release their results for the third quarter. After a rough first half of the year, the Financials are looking for a bit of a rebound this season. Faced with a slew of challenges as the year got underway, Financials saw year­-over-­year growth decline 8% in the first quarter for both earnings and revenues. The second quarter showed an improvement in the bottom­line which increased 3%, but sales pulled back 1%. Going into the third quarter, Estimize contributors are anticipating profit growth of 5% and sales growth of 4.3%. The six biggest banks (BAC, C, JPM, WFC, GS, MS) are expected to do much better, averaging a consensus estimate of a 13.6% increase on the bottom­line and 3.0% growth to the top­line. Estimize   Estimize Three heavy­hitters, JPMorgan Chase, Wells Fargo and Citigroup, will kick off the bank reports when they release results on Tuesday before the opening bell. With most of the large mortgage settlements that have plagued the banks for the last several quarters out of the way, the greatest headwinds for these three could continue to be lower trading volumes for fixed­income and equities as well weakness in mortgages. These concerns are particularly worrying for JPMorgan Chase and Citigroup, with lower mortgage originations and applications taking their toll last quarter. However, both companies have seen their estimates trend higher ahead of next week’s releases amid an improving home loan landscape. Currently, the Estimize community believes JPMorgan will report earnings per share (EPS) of $1.45 for the third quarter, $0.05 above the Wall Street consensus, representing a 2% increase year­over­year. Revenues are also anticipated to see a slight uptick from the year­ago quarter at $24.1B, a 1% increase. The EPS consensus from Estimize for Citigroup is $1.18 versus the Wall Street consensus of $1.12, implying a 16% increase, with revenues of $19.1B suggesting a nearly 7% increase. Wells Fargo, the country’s largest mortgage lender which is often seen as a bellwether for the housing market, funded a mere $47B worth of mortgages in the most recent quarter. No questioning this was a disappointing figure, but a marked improvement over the first quarter’s $36B, and a good sign that loan growth was heading in the right direction. Investors will look for that momentum to continue in the third quarter, with current EPS estimates of $1.02 showing a slight increase of 3% and revenues of $21B showing an increase of 2%. The MVPs: Goldman Sachs (GS) and Morgan Stanley (MS) The banks with less to worry about this quarter are Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, both putting up impressive numbers last quarter. Analysts believe that fixed income, currencies and commodities trading, typically big money­makers for the likes of Goldman, could show revenue improvement from a year ago. Add to that a robust M&amp;A environment which is driving business in the investment banking arm for both of these banks, as well as the improvement in their wealth management businesses. The current Estimize EPS expectation for Goldman is $3.75, a whopping $0.50 higher than the Street estimate, representing the largest delta between the Estimize and Wall Street consensus amongst the banks. If Goldman manages to come in at $3.75, that would put year­over­year growth at 30%. Revenues are almost expected to do just as well with an estimate of $8.1B versus $7.7B from Wall Street, this would be an increase of 21%. It’s important to keep in mind the year ­ago quarter was very weak, making for easier comparisons this time around. As for Morgan Stanley, EPS is anticipated to come in at $0.57, growing 14% from Q3 2013, while revenues are expected at $8.36B an increase of 5.5%. Last Up: Bank of America (BAC) Bank of America, the country’s second largest bank in terms of total assets, will report on Thursday. During the quarter, the bank paid off a $17B mortgage lending settlement stemming largely from the purchases of Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. and Countrywide Financial. The settlement amount is the largest ever reached between the U.S. and a single company, and is approximately equal to the bank's total profit for the past three years. Estimize contributors are expecting very low earnings of $0.01 for the company, yet higher than the $­0.06 Wall Street consensus. At one penny per share, profits for Bank of America would be down 96% from Q3 2013. Revenue estimates of $21.5B are roughly in­line with the $21.7B reported in the year ­ago quarter. Of the six banks mentioned here, this is the only one the Estimize community believes will post lower year-­over-­year earnings and sales.  FREE AppDownload
Associated PressSisters Abigail, 20, left, and Aridis Guszman, 14, of the Bronx borough of New York, shop during the grand opening of the Material Girl clothing line at Macy's.Piper Jaffray released its semiannual report on teen spending Tuesday.  We dug through the report and pulled out some of the most interesting facts and charts.  Here's a summary: 1. Teens are spending most of their money on clothes and food. Here's a breakdown of teen spending by category: Piper Jaffray2. Teens are spending 20% of their money on food, up from 15% 10 years ago. Meanwhile, their clothing budgets have shrunk. Upper-income teens rank their favorite restaurants in this order: Starbucks, Chipotle, Chick-fil-A, McDonald's and Dunkin' Donuts. Average-income teens favorite chains are Starbucks, McDonald's, McDonald's, Chipotle, Chick-fil-A, and Taco Bell, respectively.   Piper Jaffray3. Teens are still getting most of their money from their parents. This chart shows parental contributions for average- and upper-income teens over the years. Piper Jaffray4. For the first time in the survey's history, T.J. Maxx ranks as one of teens' top 10 favorite brands. Nike remains the top clothing brand for all income levels. American Eagle, Forever 21, Polo Ralph Lauren, and Urban Outfitters also rank among the most popular apparel brands. Top footwear brands for upper-income teens are, in order, Nike, Vans, Converse, Sperry Top-Sider, and Steve Madden. Piper Jaffray5. Brands that are losing popularity among teens include Aeropostale, Abercrombie &amp; Fitch, and Hollister. Here's a graph of the top-cited brands that teen girls said they no longer wear: Piper Jaffray6. On the flip side, brands that are starting to get more popular among teen girls include Brandy Melville, American Eagle, and Free People. Teens boys cited Nike, Ralph Lauren, and Under Armour as up-trending brands. Piper Jaffray7. Teens' favorite websites for shopping are Amazon, Nike, and eBay. Piper Jaffray8. Teen girls said the top fashion trends for fall 2014 include leggings, crop tops and high-waisted pants and skirts. Men cited Nike, "preppy," "tall socks," Vineyard Vines and Chubbies as top trends for fall. 9. Instagram is the most important social network for teens, followed by Twitter, Facebook, and Tumblr, respectively. Piper Jaffray 10. Apple remains the top electronics brand for teens. 67% now own iPhones, up from 61% in the spring, and 73% say that their next phone will be an iPhone. 16% of teens said they are interested in the Apple Watch.  FREE AppDownload
Sometimes it seems like the world is falling apart. Between Ebola, climate change, Russia's invasion of the Ukraine, and the ongoing war in Iraq and Syria, there's bad news everywhere you look. Yet while speaking at the UN on September 24, President Obama said that he often tells young people in the United States "that this is the best time in human history to be born, for you are more likely than ever before to be literate, to be healthy, and to be free to pursue your dreams." So, is this really be the best time to be born? Absolutely, by many measures — whether you are born in the US or the rest of the world. Despite the fact that plenty of problems exist, people are healthier now than ever, the world has become significantly less violent, and education is more available now than it ever has been. Here are 23 charts that show why this is the best time to be born. We've made this graphic that shows how both have changed since then.  The countries are color-coded by region: red is East Asia and the Pacific, orange is Europe and Central Asia, yellow is the Americas, green is the Middle East and North Africa, light blue is South Asia, and dark blue is Sub-Saharan Africa. (An interactive version is available here.) Health Resources and Services Administration Richard Peto, Alan D. Lopez, Ole F. Norheim Bill Gates uses this chart to help demonstrate the ways that vaccines have transformed our world.  This chart shows the change in morbidity from various diseases in the US from the pre-vaccine era to the modern era. Leon Farrant In 1988, the World Health Assembly decided to start tyring to eliminate polio from the world through comprehensive vaccination programs. Look at the progress so far. CDC This charts shows changes in the US since 1960. Health Resources and Services Administration World Health Organization Global income distribution has shifted so that many people who were making $1 a day are now more likely to make $10 a day.  This chart divides the world into those above the middle class, the middle class, the near poor, the moderately poor, and the extremely poor. Obviously, there's still room for progress, but the percentage of workers that are middle class and above has grown. International Labour Organization Harvard psychology professor Steven Pinker explains that violence of all sorts has been declining for years — by most measures, we're living in the most peaceful time in human history. Human Security Report Project/2013 Report The CDC shows that youth homicides are less than 50% of what they were in the mid 1990s. CDC Human Security Report Project Thought there have been some fluctuations, there's a clear trend towards fewer homicides over time. Claude Fischer, professor of sociology, UC Berkeley Steven Pinker It's Getting Better All The Time / Stephen Moore & Julian Simon  UNESCO Better Angels Of Our Nature/Gates Notes "The Improving State of the World" (c) Cato Institute 2007. Used with permission It's Getting Better All The Time / Stephen Moore & Julian Simon   Internation Telecommunications Union/Wikimedia Commons Bill Gates has said "We're on this rising tide that's not recognized. It's overwhelming how prosperity is spread around the world." The world is far from perfect, and there are plenty of areas of improvement needed. But is now the best time in history to be born? We'd say so. FREE AppDownload
Harrison Jacobs/Business Insider"Living the dream" can mean a lot of different things. To some, it's a life spent kicking back on a beach with an endless supply of Mai Tais. To others, it could be traveling all over the world, meeting new people, and experiencing a hundred different cultures. And to others, it is a dream job in which you get paid to do the things you love.  Whatever your concept of "living the dream," we've come up with a list of people who are without a doubt living their dreams (and maybe yours, too).  The 15 people on this list have often taken extraordinary risks and worked hard to build lives that let them do what they always dreamed of, whether that's shooting into space, playing video games all day, or living full-time in the wilderness. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFinancial offices of Canary Wharf are seen behind visitors to the O2 arena enjoying a fairground ride in east LondonLONDON/DUBLIN (Reuters) - Britain's major lenders may find it hard to hire dozens of directors that are required as part of a radical reshape of the industry aimed at protecting it from future investment bank crashes. Britain wants banks such as HSBC, Barclays and the UK arm of Spain's Santander to ring fence their retail units from their wholesale operations, including creating a separate board for their retail divisions that would be independent of the parent group. But the banks may struggle to fill these boards because the directors will be more exposed if things go wrong, particularly under new rules which will make it easier for the regulator to hold senior bankers to account for misconduct, including the threat of jail for reckless decisions that cause a bank to fail. “I think it may be hard to find directors for these ring fenced banks," said Simon Gleeson, a partner at UK law firm Clifford Chance. “You’re practically volunteering for the role of scapegoat." “It almost feels as if the ring fenced bank is going to operate on a kind of strict liability level because having been set up to be failsafe, if it does fail, regulators, politicians and others will be very, very incensed.” Investment banks are viewed as riskier because they make bets on markets but retail banks are also sources of instability. Many of the banks that got into trouble during the global financial crisis were retail banks that provided loans to finance home purchases such as Britain's HBOS, which was taken over by Lloyds. Britain wants to make directors more accountable and responsible for their actions, aiming to prevent a repeat of the 2007-09 financial crisis when taxpayers spent tens of billions of pounds bailing out major banks whose directors walked away with their pensions intact. The threat of prison will be remote and tougher rules are necessary, bankers and headhunters admit, but it will add another reason to avoid bank boards, already shunned by some qualified candidates because of the increased workload and complexity of being a financial services sector director following the crash. "We should be under no illusions: finding enough people with the appropriate experience, who are not tainted by the financial crisis, and who are willing to take on the extra responsibility and culpability placed on them by the senior manager regime will be challenging," said Omar Ali, head of UK banking and capital markets for consultancy EY. This week two board members of HSBC’s UK unit were preparing to quit, partly because of concern about regulation, a person familiar with the matter said. Luke MacGregor/ReutersA trader sits at his desk at IG Index in London September 9, 2014.  Any bank with 25 billion pounds of UK deposits will need to set up a ring-fenced unit by 2019 and will have to submit preliminary plans to the Bank of England by January 6 of next year. At present, six firms would need to do so: HSBC, Lloyds Banking Group, Barclays, Royal Bank of Scotland, Santander UK and the Co-operative Bank. Another batch of lenders have deposits of almost 25 billion pounds and could be above that level by 2019, including TSB, Virgin Money, National Australia Bank's UK operations, and Williams &amp; Glyn, a business being spun out from RBS. Some, like TSB, may be pure retail banks so will not have to set up a separate ring-fenced structure. That could leave seven or eight ring-fenced banks, each with a board of 8-12 people, industry sources said, meaning that more than 60 people could be needed to fill the positions, including 40 non-executives. The expected surge in demand for directors comes at a time when there has already been increased calls for directors with financial experience as several new banks have set up in Britain and international banks have been trying to improve the quality of their UK boards. The breadth and depth of the financial crisis mean there is a limited number of experienced people, untainted by the misdeeds of the past, who banks can call upon. "They need to find more people to do this at a time when some people think the risk/reward has tilted against non-execs, so you may find a situation where supply has gone down at a time that demand has gone up,” said Clifford Smout, Deloitte’s co-head for regulatory strategy in Europe. Widening the pool to people outside of financial services can also be problematic. Non-executive directors of banks typically have to devote one day a week to the role compared to an average of around 25 days a year before the crisis and that's assuming they are willing to enter an industry which in Europe is still a lightening rod for public criticism. “Any executive I sit down with who is shifting into non-executive roles will typically open the conversation by saying, ‘I will join the board of any industry unless it’s tobacco, defense or financial services'," said one London-based headhunter. Bank non-executives could be paid more, or have contracts specifying their responsibilities and with indemnities to cover problems in areas outside their reach, headhunters said. REUTERS/Suzanne PlunkettA commuter's shadow is cast as he emerges from the underground station outside the Bank of England in London December 20, 2013.  Sitting on the board of a ring-fenced retail bank will also open the director to conflicts of interest between their obligations to the ring-fenced bank and the wider group. The idea of shielding the retail bank from the rest of the group is to ensure that it is not treated like the company piggy bank, its deposits plundered to support risky market bets. But a situation could arise where it makes sense for the good of the overall business if funds or funding or capital is transferred from the ring-fenced bank to another ailing part of the group. The directors are then faced with a conflict between their obligations to the regulator under the ring-fencing rules and their obligations to shareholders under English corporate law. "You have got a set of rules coming in which can never satisfactorily resolve that conflict of interest," said Bob Penn, a partner at Allen &amp; Overy, a London law firm. “This will embed a very conservative, possibly overly cautious approach on the part of management dealing with the wider world because they have to look over their shoulders on every decision." So far, the Bank of England appears to be leaving it to the banks to solve any conflicts, noting in its consultation paper this week that the ring-fenced banks must set out, "arrangements to identify and manage" any such potential friction. But it remains to be seen how constrictive the Bank of England's rules will be. Many issues still need to be clarified, including how much capital the ring-fenced bank needs to hold and how far it can share technology and other assets with the rest of the group. (Editing by Anna Willard) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe logo of Russia's top crude producer Rosneft is seen on a price information board of a gasoline station in MoscowMOSCOW (Reuters) - Russia's top oil producer Rosneft has turned to UK-certified lawyers in its fight against Ukraine-related Western sanctions which have hit the company's output and prospects for its push to tap Arctic riches. The Kremlin-controlled firm has issued a 17.7-million-pound ($28-million) tender seeking the services of UK-certified lawyers on a website which registers Russian state purchases and orders. "Provider undertakes to render legal services with regard to challenging economic sanctions and to protect interests of the client in general in respect to any other legal matters," the document said. The amount of the work is set at 37,000 hours, making the fee 478 pounds per hour. BP owns a 19.75 percent stake in Rosneft, which due to the sanctions faces limits on its access to capital markets, curbing its ability to fund development work. Last month, ExxonMobil said it had to wind down cooperation with Rosneft in the Arctic after successfully drilling a first exploration well and the discovery of a large oilfield.. (Editing by Jason Neely) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersMan walks past a building in the morning mist at London's financial district of Canary WharfLONDON (Reuters) - The $700 trillion financial derivatives industry has agreed to a fundamental rule change from January to help regulators to wind down failed banks without destabilising markets. The International Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA) and 18 major banks that dominate the market will now allow financial watchdogs to apply temporary stays to prevent a rush to close derivatives contracts if a bank runs into trouble, the ISDA said on Saturday. A delay would give regulators time to ensure that critical parts of a bank, such as customer accounts, continue smoothly while the rest is wound down or sold off in an orderly way. That would help to avoid the type of market chaos sparked by the collapse of Lehman Brothers in 2008 and also end the problem of banks being considered too big to fail. The Financial Stability Board (FSB), a regulatory task force for the Group of 20 economies (G20), had asked the ISDA to make the changes with the aim of ending the too-big-to-fail scenario in which banks are propped up with taxpayer money to avoid market disruption. Under the new contract terms, default clauses in derivatives contracts such as interest rate or credit default swaps would be suspended for a maximum of 48 hours. "Ending too-big-to-fail is going to be an evolutionary process, but the agreement of the first wave of banks to sign the protocol is a big step forward," ISDA Chief Executive Scott O'Malia said. The ISDA template for millions of derivatives trades will now include the possibility of stays on both new and existing contracts, with the 18 leading players - including the likes of Credit Suisse &lt;csgn.vx&gt; and Goldman Sachs Group &lt;gs.n&gt; - agreeing to change their contracts from January. Many derivatives are traded among banks. "Well over 90 percent of the outstanding derivatives notionally held by the G18 banks will be covered with stays, which will give regulators some time to deal with a resolution of a bank in an orderly way," O'Malia said. More banks are expected to follow suit as regulators across the G20 countries introduce new rules next year to require counterparties to derivatives trades to accept stays. Mandatory rules will also mean that another big user of derivatives, the asset management industry, will have little choice but to accept stays. Asset managers have resisted so far, arguing that they have a legal duty to their clients not to delay getting their money back from a failed bank and that agreeing to stays voluntarily could leave them open to lawsuits. (Editing by David Goodman) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonTraders wait for the Wayfair IPO on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange October 2, 2014. NEW YORK (Reuters) - For Federal Reserve officials already worried about a persistent lack of U.S. wage and price growth, one corner of the bond market may be suggesting even more reason for alarm. The Treasury Inflation Protected Securities (TIPS) market is suggesting price stagnation may be just around the corner. Slowing global growth, particularly because of weakness in Europe, as well as a surging dollar and plunging oil prices, have spurred selling in TIPS since late summer, disrupting a comeback they had enjoyed in the first eight months of the year. TIPS, which provide protection for investors against rising inflation, are closely watched because they feature a measure of inflation expectations called breakeven yields. Keeping inflation expectations steady is one of the Fed's key goals. Disinflation, or weak price growth, while not as harmful as deflation or a downward price spiral, hampers the economy as workers struggle to get bigger salaries and prices of assets, such as homes, appreciate only slowly. Fed officials, including Chair Janet Yellen, have repeatedly bemoaned the absence of wage growth for U.S. workers even as unemployment has fallen to the lowest since the financial crisis. TIPS breakevens have been collapsing since early August. In the last three weeks, following the Fed's most recent meeting and an unexpected monthly drop in the benchmark U.S. Consumer Price Index on the same day in mid-September, the downward momentum in breakevens has been at its most intense since the financial crisis. "The CPI definitely set the tone. The stronger dollar and weaker energy prices are definitely having a major impact," said Martin Hegarty, co-head of inflation-linked bonds at BlackRock, the world's largest asset manager with $4.3 trillion under management. Last week, for instance, 10-year breakevens, a gauge of where inflation will be in a decade, fell to their lowest since late 2011. They dropped below the key 2 percent level targeted by the Fed at the end of last month. On Friday, they ended at 1.97 percent. "The market is readjusting its global growth expectations," said Gemma Wright-Casparius, who oversees Vanguard's $26.1 billion TIPS fund, the biggest U.S. fund of its kind. Only last week, the International Monetary Fund downgraded its forecast on global growth this year to 3.3 percent from the 3.4 percent it previously expected, and gave worryingly high probabilities for recession and deflation in Europe.  Since last month's Fed's meeting, interest rate futures markets have pushed estimates for when the Fed will finally start to raise rates further into 2015. At that meeting, Fed policy makers declined to make an anticipated change to their forward guidance for interest rates because they were concerned about anemic wage growth and other slackness in the economy. It is now seen as a toss-up whether the Fed moves before next September, whereas in late summer odds were tilted toward an increase as early as June. "There is no sign of wage inflation. Until that changes, there will be no rush to raise the funds rate," said Bill Irving, a Merrimack, New Hampshire, portfolio manager at Fidelity Investments, which manages $2 trillion. Meanwhile, New York Fed President William Dudley and a few other policy makers have raised red flags about the stronger dollar, which strengthened in the third quarter by 7.7 percent, the most in six years. That makes imported goods cheaper for U.S. consumers, but can stunt growth in U.S. exports at a time when key trading partners in Europe and Asia are struggling to keep their economies on track. Weaker exports would be an unwelcome headwind for the U.S. economy. Still, worry about the dollar's strength may be overblown, some analysts say, because the United States is less dependent on exports than China, Japan and Germany for growth. "The inflation market is having a complete over-reaction to a stronger dollar," BlackRock's Hegarty said. Recently, though, another factor has emerged to exert more pressure on the inflation outlook: plunging oil prices. Global oil prices late last week hit their lowest levels since 2010 and are now down 25 percent since June. Shutterstock All this has translated into a big hiccup for what had been a major comeback year for TIPS after they suffered their worst-ever performance in 2013, when the Barclays' TIPS index declined by 8.6 percent. Since the beginning of September, the index has fallen 1.4 percent. Before then, TIPS had generated a 6.3 percent return from January to August, outperforming the broader bond market. Meanwhile, investors have pulled money from TIPS-focused funds for six straight weeks, withdrawing more than $1.1 billion in that span, according to Lipper, a unit of Thomson Reuters. That has cut assets in TIPS funds to $43.1 billion, the lowest since April. Some of the selling in the last two weeks was exaggerated by renowned bond investor Bill Gross's surprise departure from Pimco for Janus Capital Group. Pimco's flagship Pimco Total Return Fund, the world's largest bond portfolio with about $200 billion in assets, had hefty TIPS exposure, and traders reasoned the firm might cut that to raise cash for the fund redemptions it faced when Gross left. Investors pulled $17.9 billion from the Pimco Total Return Fund in September, according to Morningstar. "That was another massive hit" to the TIPS market, said Aaron Kohli, BNP Paribas' interest rate strategist in New York. (Reporting by Richard Leong; Editing by Dan Burns and Martin Howell) FREE AppDownload
Robert ShillerCAPE is currently at a level that comes before a crash.No single stock market forecasting model is infallible. It's an unsettling thought. But it's true. And some of the most respected stock market experts would warn that even the most reliable and consistent models are capable of breaking down. In his new monthly market commentary, Blackstone's Byron Wien discusses how Robert Shiller's CAPE ratio warnings are being ignored by market participants, who continue to push stock prices to record highs. CAPE, or the cyclically adjusted price-earnings ratio, is calculated by taking the S&amp;P 500 and dividing it by the average of 10 years' worth of earnings. If the ratio is above the long-term average of about 16, the stock market is considered expensive. Currently, CAPE is at a very worrisome 26.3. BloombergByron Wien."It reminds me of the dividend discount model I developed at Morgan Stanley in the 1980s, which related the level of the S&amp;P 500 to the yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury," Wien said of CAPE. "The model worked well in the late 1980s and early 1990s, and I thought it would carry me through to retirement. It was a sad day in the mid-1990s when I realized it was no longer relevant." Wien has one of the longest, most notable careers on Wall Street. We'd argue that he has maintained his relevance by recognizing when models lose theirs. But, how dare anyone suggest CAPE may no longer be relevant? Shiller won the Nobel Prize in economics for his work related to CAPE. Believe it or not, even Shiller would warn you about CAPE. "Things can go for 200 years and then change," Shiller warned in an April 2012 interview with Money Magazine. "I even worry about the 10-year P/E — even that relationship could break down." We're not suggesting that CAPE is now broken. We're just noting that folks like Wien and Shiller will tell you that there's a risk it could break. Indeed, anyone who has stayed out of the market because CAPE is high has been missing out on some big market gains. REUTERS/Michelle McLoughlinRobert Shiller. FREE AppDownload
FlickrGoldman Sachs' equity research team and Teen Vogue's fashion experts teamed up to produce the definitive "Teen Vogue-Goldman Sachs Love List" — a list of the top 50 brands that "It Girls" love. They focused specifically on the "It Girl" consumer  because she is "more educated on the brands, owns more of them, talks about them more, and has stronger opinions on them." "Our 2013 'Brands Rising' index included brands that It Girls gave high marks for but were still off the radar for the National Sample," they wrote. "In 2014, 75% of these brands had significant increases in National familiarity and scored high on affinity, supporting the idea that It Girls set the tone for others." To find the top 50 brands, Goldman polled over 1,200 Teen Vogue 'It Girls' on approximately 350 brands. The survey takes into account three metrics, each of which was given a score out of 100.  Two of the metrics were pretty standard: familiarity and affinity. Familiarity measured whether or not the respondent knew the brand, and affinity measured whether or not the respondent liked the brand. The third metric was "word of mouth," which measured how much respondents discussed a brand relative to others. This metric is especially important today when young millennial women are increasingly discussing brands via social media like Instagram and Pinterest. Goldman Sachs writes that "familiarity", "affinity" and "world of mouth" all directly impacted "ownership" of a given brand. FREE AppDownload
Mike Nudelman/Business Insider Fear not. With a little financial detergent, your dirty money can be rendered more or less untraceable. It must be said that the flow of illicit capital is distorting the global economy, draining wealth from emerging nations and inflating the cost of assets in the developed world. Neither of which seems to deter people from doing it every day. China leads the world in this ancient art. Between 2002 and 2011, some $1.08 trillion departed the country illegally, despite currency-control laws that require people to obtain a permit to exchange more than $50,000 a year worth of yuan into any foreign currency. But this is a truly international pastime. During that same period, some $880.96 billion was spirited out of Russia, $461.86 billion left Mexico, $370.38 billion left Malaysia, $343.93 billion left India, $266.43 billion left Saudi Arabia, and $192.69 billion left Brazil. The total outflow, among 20 emerging economies, was $5.9 trillion, equivalent to $49 billion a month. From corrupt politicians and drug cartels to tax cheats and alimony deadbeats, more or less everybody’s doing it. Americans wishing to spirit their cash offshore are increasingly finding their efforts thwarted by Washington’s 2010 Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, which requires foreign banks to turn over information about accounts held by US citizens. But plenty of avenues remain for the dedicated money launderer — particularly if he or she is willing to violate the law. Here are the basics: Mike Nudelman/Business Insider Macau and Hong Kong are considered Special Administrative Regions of the People’s Republic of China, and part of what makes them special is that they are great places to launder cash. Macau is the casino capital of the world, with seven times more gaming revenue than Las Vegas, and Hong Kong is home to plenty of compliant banks and other intermediaries willing to transfer funds anywhere in the world without asking too many questions, for a fee. Let’s say you live or work in China and want to hide a massive bribe. First, you must convert it from yuan into another currency without the government knowing. The easiest way to do this is to contact a junket, an agent in mainland China who will give you casino chips for your cash, minus fees of up to 20%. Take the chips to a friendly, cooperative casino, where you can gamble with them, cash them in for Hong Kong or US dollars to then spend as you see fit, or deposit in a Hong Kong bank branch. Or, for extra safety, take them to a lawyer specializing in offshore laundering. Meanwhile, the casino will mix your chips with those from legitimate gamblers, and its accountants will book your $1 million as paid-out winnings. Your bank or lawyer must wire-transfer the funds in such a way that the money crosses multiple borders, to frustrate detection or confiscation. For instance, the money might end up in a US trust managed by a shell company in Grand Cayman, owned by another trust in Guernsey with an account in Luxembourg managed by a Swiss or Singaporean or Caribbean banker who doesn’t know who the owner is. Mike Nudelman/Business Insider You remember the Smurfs, those adorable little blue creatures? In financial circles, “smurfs” aren’t so innocent. They’re everyday folks who help the big guys launder their cash by making tons of tiny bank deposits and transfers in order to move money without detection. After arranging a smurf deal by phone or email, you’ll be asked to have the cash couriered to a smurf’s residence (probably not a mushroom in the forest, but you never know). The smurf will then deposit small amounts of your cash into an account every day for weeks or months — or years — avoiding watchful eyes by keeping the numbers small. Along the way, you can ask your smurf to withdraw some cash — which has since been rendered untraceable — for a shopping spree. But don’t go crazy. Better to have a bank wire-transfer the money to your offshore accomplices or your shell companies. Smurfs are supposed to stay under the radar. That’s what makes them smurfs. But the rise of internet banking had made smurfing even more lucrative, and some top practitioners became so big they began to draw attention. For years, Hong Kong’s most prolific money launderer was a teenager named Luo Juncheng, who originally opened a Bank of China account with a $500 deposit. During the next eight months, he made nearly 5,000 deposits, and more than 3,500 withdrawals electronically, moving $1.67 billion offshore before attracting notice. He was sentenced to 10 years in prison in 2013 — bad news for the smurf, and his clients. Other smurfs come to attention of authorities through their flamboyant lifestyles. In March, another Hong Kong resident, Carson Yeung, was sentenced to six years for laundering $91.27 million through his bank accounts between 2001 and 2007. A former hairdresser who’d since bought the UK's Birmingham City football team, he claimed he had accumulated hundreds of millions of dollars in profits from stock trades, a hair salon, and gambling. Mike Nudelman/Business Insider The real big shots don’t bother with casinos, crooked bank managers, junkets, or smurfs. They manage to transfer millions, or billions, without handling cash or involving banks at all, instead funneling their money through corporate deals (bribes, kickbacks, and embezzlement schemes), which are exempt from currency controls. Let’s say you're a government official or corporate executive, and you want to receive a $1 million bribe or kickback for giving a lucrative and excessively priced contract to a foreign or local business. You approve the contract, and its payment, and pad the consideration by a few million, which includes $1 million for yourself. The client puts your $1 million overpayment into a shell company in an offshore jurisdiction, where your ownership can remain anonymous. You are then free to invest or spend the money. The business writes it off as an expense, paid out to an offshore consultant. Or perhaps you’d prefer that your $1 million be used to buy an asset offshore for you, or that it be paid out gradually in salaries or fees to family members. Either way, you’re good to go. It's the same thing in reverse. Simply sell your goods or services to a business at a price that is less than the goods or services are worth. Then, out of the embezzled funds, you get $1 million directly from the company that got the bargain. These funds can be placed directly into anonymous offshore account or into an asset of your choice. Mike Nudelman/Business Insider They are a girl’s best friend and a government regulator’s worst nightmare. Let’s say you want to bring $1 million into the US without detection by tax authorities. One UBS whistleblower testified that clients were urged to buy diamonds for cash, then smuggle them overseas in toothpaste tubes to fool authorities. The gems can then be sold for cash, to private dealers, once you rinse off the Colgate. Another technique is to transfer your funds to anonymous debit cards. And if you want to go old-school, collectible stamps still have their fans. In May, Credit Suisse admitted guilt to such activities and others — such as shredding documents and keeping transactions below the US $10,000 reportable limit — to help American clients avoid taxes, paying a fine of $2.6 billion. But nobody really thinks they’re the only ones. Mike Nudelman/Business Insider The would-be launderer should take note: Crime still pays, but the costs are on the rise. A gigantic crackdown in the West, and a similar one against corruption in China, will abate illicit money flows in the long run. In the short term, however, both crusades appear to have escalated the exodus of cash. According to the UN, the largest recipient of FDI (Foreign Direct Investment) in 2013 was the British Virgin Islands, an archipelago with 23,000 residents. About $92 billion in foreign cash washed up there, more than India and Brazil combined. Other havens receiving massive “investments” included the Cayman Islands, Liechtenstein, Monaco, Andorra, and Vanuatu. But the money doesn’t necessarily stay there. In 2014, the Chinese overtook the Russians as the largest buyers of New York City condos. Other laundered money is used to purchase London mansions, yachts, securities, art, and luxury estates around the world. These funds also dominate stock and bond markets. By 2012, tax havens held about 29% of the total foreign investment (corporate, bonds, stocks) in the US. By comparison, China held only 7% of assets. But the hard reality for launderers is that “good” banks are harder to find every day, and so are jurisdictions providing complete anonymity. As a result, some very big fish are starting to get caught in the dragnet. One high-profile case in is now underway in Spain, where the world’s greatest soccer superstar, Lionel Messi, and his father stand accused of laundering $5.56 million (4.2 million euros) worth of sponsorship dollars. They deny all allegations. Meanwhile, the third Smurfs movie — said to be a thorough reboot — is being prepared for a 2016 release after the first two films grossed a total of nearly $1 billion worldwide. It sounds like a fine investment opportunity. Diane Francis is editor at large with The National Post and a professor at Ryerson University's Ted Rogers School of Management.  FREE AppDownload
© AFP/File Jean-Philippe KsiazekFrench Economy Minister Emmanuel Macron on Sunday proposed a 300-billion-euro "New Deal" in Europe to boost investment and growth, while promising to accelerate fiscal reforms at homeParis (AFP) - French Economy Minister Emmanuel Macron on Sunday proposed a 300-billion-euro "New Deal" in Europe to boost investment and growth, while promising to accelerate fiscal reforms at home. "Europe needs  a New Deal," he said in an interview published in the weekly Journal du Dimanche, evoking the original New Deal which transformed the US economy following the Great Depression of the 1930s. Macron's comments came after Dutch Finance Minister and Eurogroup chief Jeroen Dijsselbloem said France should not be granted extra time to bring its budget deficit within the EU limit of three percent of GDP. Macron, explaining his vision, said: "France engages to pursue and even intensify its reforms; the European Union announces a grand relaunch plan through 300 billion euros ($379 billion) of investments." Such a 'New Deal' would allow France to get hold of 10 billion euros of supplementary investment funding each year, he added. "Everybody wins, while at the moment everyone is losing. The slowdown of the German economy is a new setback."Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble on Thursday denied Germany was falling into recession and stuck to his opposition to higher spending to revive the eurozone economy. More growth will not be "achieved by writing checks," he said at an event on the sidelines of World Bank and International Monetary Fund meetings in Washington. Macron recognised that France itself had work to do on the fiscal front but insisted that "we have six months to create a new deal in France and in Europe." While talking of the European perspective, the French minister said it was no good simply blaming Brussels, Berlin or anywhere else for the country's financial woes. "The solution lies within our capacity to move, to modernise the country, to unblock, to free up the economy, to provide the opportunity to those who want to work to create, produce, to operate much more easily." He said that he would, in the coming weeks, announce details of a draft law containing his ideas which would be voted on "as soon as possible next year."     FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFile photo of General Motors logo outside its headquarters at the Renaissance Center in DetroitBy Nick Brown and Jessica Dye NEW YORK (Reuters) - Roger Dean Gillispie, a former General Motors security guard, spent 20 years in an Ohio prison for rape until a federal court ordered him released in 2011. Now he wants to sue GM for allegedly helping to frame him, and he’s getting support from an unlikely source: hedge funds. Gillispie, who is waiting to see if he will face a new criminal trial, has petitioned the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in New York for permission to sue GM. The court, which is overseeing claims against the company in the wake of its 2009 Chapter 11 reorganization, must decide if Gillispie can seek damages from so-called New GM, the profitable company that emerged from bankruptcy, or must go after Old GM, which is a trust composed of limited assets to settle past claims against the carmaker. He is making essentially the same argument as owners of older cars recalled in GM's ignition-switch debacle this year, who have filed more than 100 lawsuits seeking class action status and want permission from the bankruptcy court to pursue deep-pocketed New GM. The legal odyssey showcases the unexpected alliances forged by GM's split into two legal entities. Under the 2009 bankruptcy agreement, New GM is largely shielded from liabilities arising before it was created. Gillispie and the car owners argue they could not have known about key facts central to their cases before the GM bankruptcy and should be able to sue the new company. Hedge funds with claims on the Old GM assets also prefer new claimants direct their claims toward New GM. A lawyer representing the switch plaintiffs in bankruptcy court declined to comment. Those plaintiffs have not weighed in on Gillispie's case, although they are separately arguing that New GM's attempts to foist their claims onto Old GM would violate their due-process rights, too. GM spokesman Jim Cain said "we do not believe New GM is in any way responsible" for the events alleged by Gillispie, which would have occurred 18 years before New GM existed. GM argued in court papers that if Gillispie or the switch plaintiffs have claims stemming from pre-2009 conduct, they cannot proceed against New GM. If U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Robert Gerber agrees that Gillispie or the switch plaintiffs can sue the new company, GM could potentially be on the hook for tens or hundreds of millions of dollars, based on some plaintiffs' lawyers estimates of liability if they succeed in their suits over recalled cars made before 2009.  ENTER THE HEDGE FUNDS The group of powerful Wall Street players hopes Gillispie and the switch plaintiffs can bring claims against New GM. This group includes Davidson Kempner Capital Management, Angelo Gordon &amp; Co, Empyrean Capital Partners, and other investors that bought rights to the limited pool of Old GM payouts. The funds worry that if Gillispie and the car owners are barred from suing New GM, they will be allowed to sue Old GM. In that case, the investors might not get as much from the Old GM trust. Old GM's main assets, stock in the new company and warrants to buy stock, currently are worth about $9.25 billion, versus roughly $32 billion in claims, a recovery of about 29 cents on the dollar for trust creditors. But the trust has already doled out many of the assets, leaving it only about $1.2 billion worth, according to a U.S. Securities &amp; Exchange Commission filing in July. If new claimants, like Gillispie or the switch plaintiffs, are added to the pool, they could be entitled to a big chunk of what's left. In court papers in August, Wilmington Trust Co, the administrator that represents the interests of Old GM stakeholders, said Gillispie's "due process rights would be violated" if he cannot sue New GM. The group that includes Davidson Kempner and Angelo Gordon later wrote a letter to the court backing Wilmington's position. Wilmington Trust also described the stakes: adding new claimants to the Old GM pool would "open the floodgates" to a "deluge" of new claims, and "impair the rights and expectations” of current stakeholders, it said. Lawyers for Gillispie, Wilmington Trust, and the hedge fund group declined to comment beyond court filings.  TWENTY YEARS IN PRISON     Gillispie’s journey through the American legal system has spanned nearly a quarter century. In 1988, when Gillispie was a security guard for GM in Dayton, Ohio, police received three reports of rape involving forced oral sex. In court filings, Gillispie said his former boss, a GM security officer and part-time auxiliary police officer, raised Gillispie as a possible suspect in the rapes to local police, withheld evidence and testified against him, all out of an allegedly deep malice toward Gillispie. The ex-boss has responded that he simply identified Gillispie to police as a possible suspect and later testified to that effect in court. A jury convicted Gillispie of rape, kidnapping, gross sexual imposition and aggravated robbery, but Gillispie maintained his innocence, and his case was taken up by the Ohio Innocence Project, which argued that he did not get a fair trial. In 2011 and 2012, Ohio federal and state courts agreed, citing evidence that suggested Gillispie did not fit victims’ description of the attacker and noting a dearth of physical evidence linking him to the crimes.     Prosecutors have appealed part of the federal court ruling, and are opposing Gillispie's motion to dismiss the criminal indictment in state court. While Gillispie waits to hear whether he will be tried again, he is free on bail.  In the meantime, he's lodged a civil-rights lawsuit against the Ohio town and county that investigated him, some of its police officers and crime-lab employees, his former GM supervisor and several co-workers, accusing them all of conspiring to frame him. Also named as a defendant in the lawsuit is New GM. While civil rights claims are more commonly brought against governments and public officials, it is not unprecedented to bring them against private companies, particularly when the claims concern security guards or others who function as a kind of private police. The defendants have denied the allegations in court filings and are seeking to dismiss the case. Whether Gillispie and the switch plaintiffs can sue new GM is the decision of Bankruptcy Judge Gerber. He is not expected to rule on their motions for a few months.  (Reporting by Nick Brown and Jessica Dye; Editing by Amy Stevens and Peter Henderson) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTrucks drive past piles of shipping containers at the Qingdao port in QingdaoLONDON (Reuters) - China's economy, the second largest in the world, gets a spot check this week with a barrage of data due that should indicate how successful Beijing has been in supporting growth. It may be even more pertinent than usual, given that the Federal Reserve has been surprisingly cautious about the U.S. economy and with euro zone powerhouse Germany suddenly appearing to stagger. The world economy may not be on the brink of falling back into recession, but it is hardly on fire. The International Monetary Fund, for example, has lowered its growth expectations for this year and next in Europe, Japan and China, among others. Since April, Beijing has taken steps to keep up growth, including cutting reserve requirements for selected banks and hastening construction of railways and public housing. Some of this week's Chinese data - inflation, trade, bank credit, money supply and FX reserves - will pave the way for third quarter gross domestic product numbers on October 21. Annual GDP growth quickened slightly to 7.5 percent in the second quarter from 7.4 percent in the previous three months, but the economy was losing steam going into the third quarter as the property market slowed. Analysts at UBS are expecting a mixed picture, with better export numbers offset by weaker import numbers, softer inflation and modestly slower credit growth. That points to continuing slack domestic demand with year-on-year GDP easing back some more. UBS is expecting growth of 7.1 percent, while HSBC has penciled in 7.3 percent. Either number would signal the slowest year-on-year expansion in China since the first quarter of 2009 and the fourth quarter of 2001 before that. "Given the ... downside risks to growth and clear signs of a negative output gap, we expect more easing measures in the coming months to stabilize growth. These could be in the form of monetary, as well as fiscal policies and help steady economic activity in the coming months," economists at HSBC said.   If China is looking for an expanding destination for its exports, it can probably skip the euro zone. Already struggling with no growth and minimal inflation, the 18-member currency bloc has recently seen a new danger as its main economic engine, Germany, sputters. Last week, industrial orders and output data showed the steepest drops in more than five years while the country's dominant export sector suffered a plunge. More bad news is expected on Tuesday when the ZEW research group issue its economic sentiment survey. This has fallen every month since December when the index -- which primarily indicates direction -- hit 62. Reuters polls suggest the latest number will be just 3. "The industrial and trade numbers that we have had in the recent week or two on Germany have been pretty awful," James Knightley, senior economist at ING, told clients. "It does highlight concerns that the German economy really is slowing quite markedly and that the euro zone as a whole could slip into recession." European Central Bank chief Mario Draghi will speak mid-week and may repeat his calls for countries with available budget surpluses to increase spending to boost the euro zone economy. He means Germany.   Federal Reserve policymakers will meanwhile be out in force, with Janet Yellen, who chairs the U.S. central bank, speaking in Boston on Friday. With the Fed set to finally end its program of bond-buying with new money at its next interest rate setting meeting on October 18-19, keen attention will be paid to any hints about the direction of interest rates. This will especially be the case after some mixed messages in the past week about what is expected and the release of relatively dovish minutes of the last meeting. Fed Vice Chairman Stanley Fischer said financial markets had it "more or less" right that there would be a hike in the middle of next year. But St. Louis Fed President James Bullard said investors and the central bank were far apart on their view of where interest rates will be at the end of 2015.     (Additional reporting by Kevin Yao in Beijing; Editing by Catherine Evans) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersPIMCO officesBERLIN (Reuters) - Bond investors need to revise their expectations of the returns they can make in the years ahead, said Scott Mather, one of three Pimco managers who run the firm's Total Return Fund following the shock exit of co-founder Bill Gross last month. In an interview with Germany's Boersen-Zeitung newspaper, Mather, Chief Investment Officer for U.S. core strategies at Pimco, said: "Even if interest rates gradually increase, with a global portfolio of bonds with the best creditworthiness you can maybe expect a return of about 3 percent in the coming years." He said investors could earn a "little more" but not much more with equities. Pimco's flagship Total Return Fund has seen heavy outflows since Gross announced last month he was leaving the Newport Beach, California-based firm he started in the 1970s to join smaller rival Janus Capital Group. Mather, who told the paper the investment process would not change with Gross gone, said he saw opportunities in peripheral euro zone countries and in contingent convertible "CoCo" bonds, a complex form of hybrid debt. He said that many CoCo bonds had been issued and not all of them had found investors. "We believe they are cheap," he told the paper. Pimco is a unit of German insurance group Allianz.   (Reporting by Victoria Bryan; Editing by Noah Barkin) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersU.S. Federal Reserve Vice Chair Stanley Fischer participates in a discussion on the global economy during the World Bank/IMF Annual MeetingWASHINGTON (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve is unlikely to disrupt the global economy when it finally gets around to raising interest rates, the central bank's No. 2 official said on Saturday, seeking to ease concern the move could upend the flow of capital to emerging markets. "The normalization of our policy should prove manageable," Fed Vice Chairman Stanley Fischer said in an address at the International Monetary Fund's annual meeting. "We have done everything we can, within the limits of forecast uncertainty, to prepare market participants for what lies ahead. "In determining the pace at which our monetary accommodation is removed, we will, as always, be paying close attention to the path of the rest of the global economy and its significant consequences for U.S. economic prospects." Yet he also acknowledged the difficulties posed as the Fed tries to end years of accommodative monetary policy, noting that increased concern about world economic growth could change how the U.S. central bank reacts in coming months. "If foreign growth is weaker than anticipated, the consequences for the U.S. economy could lead the Fed to remove accommodation more slowly than otherwise," Fischer said. The Fed is expected by the middle of next year to approve its first interest rate increase since 2006, a move to "normalize" monetary policy after years of crisis fighting. Large developing nations like India and Brazil have been concerned at the global fallout from rising rates, just as they earlier criticized the Fed's quantitative easing policies as a "currency war" that caused a fast increase in their currency values. Some urged the Fed during IMF meetings this week to proceed cautiously. Fischer, born in what is now Zimbabwe and a former head of the Bank of Israel, has become a key Fed spokesperson on international issues, and said in the keynote IMF address that he felt the Fed's crisis programs have on the whole benefited the rest of the world. "Estimates imply that the net effect on foreign economies appears to be both modest in magnitude and most likely positive, on net, for most countries," Fischer said of Fed policies that pumped trillions of dollars onto global markets. In addition, he said U.S. central bank officials have given ample time and clear signals about their intentions, providing other national governments and investors plenty of time to prepare for a shift in policy. The Fed is "going to great lengths to communicate policy intentions and strategies clearly. Given this, markets should not be greatly surprised by either the timing or the pace of normalization," Fischer said.   (Reporting By Howard Schneider; Editing by Andrea Ricci) FREE AppDownload
Matt Cardy/Getty ImagesThe S&amp;P 500 and Dow Jones indexes have hit all-time highs in recent weeks. According to Goldman Sachs' David Kostin, this five-year old bull market has further to run. But even Kostin and his team believe some stocks are trading way above fair value. In his new quarterly chartbook, Kostin lists 40 stocks that are the most overpriced in the market relative to Goldman Sachs analysts' price targets.  Tech companies dominate this list. What follows are the 19 stocks that Kostin says have at least a 15% downside relative to their recent prices. FREE AppDownload
