BEIJING (Reuters) - China's services sector grew slightly faster in November, two surveys showed on Wednesday, a welcome respite to a run of underwhelming data but still unlikely to allay concerns about the softening Chinese economy. The encouraging reports about the services sector, which creates more jobs than factories, contrasted sharply with data out on Monday that suggested growth in China's manufacturing industry slid to its lowest in at least six months in November. That prompted some economists to predict that China would cut interest rates again in coming months after doing so unexpectedly on Nov. 21 to stoke growth in the world's second-largest economy. "Things have gotten worse rather than better," said Louis Kuijs, an economist at RBS in Hong Kong, adding that any bottoming out in China's sagging housing market is unlikely to lead to a solid rebound next year. "I predict one more rate cut to lower lending rates to 5.25 percent in the first quarter," he said. The official non-manufacturing Purchasing Managers' Index, or PMI, rose to 53.9 in November from October's 53.8, well above the 50-point line that separates growth from contraction on a monthly basis. A separate services PMI published by HSBC/Markit inched up to 53.0 last month from October's 52.9, as new orders rose at their quickest pace in 2-1/2 years. But the surveys painted a mixed picture about the labour market, which Chinese leaders say is a crucial consideration when setting policy. The official services PMI showed the labour market shrank for the fifth consecutive month in November as the employment sub-index hovered at 49.5, while the HSBC/Markit survey showed firms were still hiring as companies expanded their businesses. Accounting for about 46 percent of China's economy last year, the services sector has weathered the growth slowdown better than factories, and authorities want it to overtake manufacturing as the bigger driver of activity in coming years. Hurt by a sagging housing market, slowing domestic demand and investment and unsteady exports, China's economy is forecast by some analysts to be headed towards its worst slowdown in 24 years this year with annual growth seen at 7.4 percent. Sources told Reuters after the rate cut that policymakers feared fourth-quarter growth could dip below 7 percent, despite a flurry of fiscal and monetary policy support measures earlier in the year. In a sign that companies were feeling the drag of an unsteady economy, business expectations softened in both services PMIs. A sub-index measuring business confidence for the year ahead dipped to a three-month low in the HSBC/Markit poll, while the official PMI showed the index hit a 10-month trough. Both indices held above the 50-point level, however. "Downside pressures on the economy still persist," said Qu Hongbin, an economist at HSBC in Hong Kong, adding that he expected further policy easing in coming weeks. After saying for months that China doesn't need any big economic stimulus, the central bank unexpectedly cut interest rates last month by 40 basis points, its biggest reduction since November 2008 at the height of the global financial crisis. Kuijs said the rate cut could be an attempt by authorities to alleviate the debt repayment pressures faced by some companies in sectors that are plagued by falling prices and a glut of unsold goods. "(Future) policy will be dependent on data," he said. "If the leadership can get away without easing the policy stance further, they will."   (Reporting by Koh Gui Qing; Editing by Kim Coghill) FREE AppDownload
We believe stocks will deliver mid- to high-single-digit returns in 2015, with a focus on earnings over valuations. We believe 3% economic growth, benign global monetary policy, and a more favorable policy climate from Washington indicate that the powerful, nearly six-year-old bull market should continue. Historically since WWII, the average annual gain on stocks has been 7–9%. Thus, our forecast is in-line with average stock market growth. We forecast a 5–<U+2009>9% gain, including dividends, for U.S. stocks in 2015 as measured by the S&amp;P 500. This gain is derived from earnings per share (EPS) for S&amp;P 500 companies growing 5<U+2009>–<U+2009>10%. Earnings gains are supported by our expectation of improved global economic growth and stable profit margins in 2015. We expect stocks, not bonds, to be the precious cargo for investors in 2015. The coming year will be one marked by transitions. Cycles that are in transition can cause potential fluctuations and volatility even if they have historically provided solid stock market performance. The most important cycle, the economic cycle, is unlikely to reach a recession destination in 2015, positioning the stock market to potentially offer up solid gains to investors. In fact, since 1950, in years during which the U.S. economy does not enter recession, the odds of a positive year for the S&amp;P 500 were 82%, with an average gain of 11%. Recessions do not run on a set schedule and are difficult to pinpoint in advance, but our belief, based on our favorite leading indicators for the economy, is that the probability of recession is very low and stocks could potentially send investors solid returns in the coming year [Figure 1]. LPL Financial We expect earnings, and not valuations, to do the heavy lifting in producing potential stock market gains for investors in 2015. Steady, though not spectacular, economic growth in the United States and mixed, but largely stable, growth overseas may support continued low- to mid-single-digit revenue growth for the S&amp;P 500. As the economic cycle advances further, cost pressures may begin to emerge and limit companies’ ability to expand profit margins. However, with limited wage pressures, currently low commodity prices (for non-commodity producers), and low borrowing costs, profit margins should remain relatively stable. In addition, share buybacks by corporations<U+2009>—<U+2009>though slowing<U+2009>—<U+2009>may continue to lift the EPS calculation. Based on this, we believe the S&amp;P 500 is on schedule to potentially deliver a year of high-single-digit EPS growth. Monetary policy is in transit in 2015, when stocks will face a transition from the very loose monetary policy of the Fed’s quantitative easing (QE) program, which ended in October 2014, to an environment in which the Fed begins to hike interest rates. Although this transition may contribute to an increase in stock market volatility in the short term, we do not expect the start of Fed rate hikes to derail the stock market in 2015. In fact, history has shown that stocks performed well when the Fed began to hike interest rates, due to the better economic and profit growth that prompted the Fed to act to combat inflation [Figure 2]. Over the past 50 years, the first hike has tended to occur a bit before the halfway point of economic cycles and well before bull markets have ended. LPL Financial Despite the favorable backdrop of improving economic growth and attractive corporate fundamentals, meaningful risks remain for stocks in 2015. The Eurozone, which is teetering on the brink of another recession, and the possibility of a further slowdown in China, both present risks to global growth. Structural constraints may also slow Europe’s return to reasonable growth levels. Geopolitical risks, such as the Russia-Ukraine conflict and the rise of Islamic State militants, remain on investors’ minds as potential risks that could drive increased volatility during 2015, as they did at times during 2014. Last, the possibility exists that a policy mistake in Washington<U+2009>—<U+2009>such as another debt ceiling debacle<U+2009>—<U+2009>could take stocks off schedule, though even with a Republican-controlled Congress and Democratic president we see that possibility as quite remote. Valuations for the S&amp;P 500 remain slightly above the long-term average price-to-earnings ratio (PE) of between 16 and 17 times trailing earnings, indicating a slightly expensive market. However, valuations have had virtually no predictive power in timing market tops or major pullbacks. But over long time periods, such as over the next 10 years, PE ratios have a strong historical record of forecasting the market’s direction [Figure 3]. Important to note, even when valuations indicate performance below the historical averages, they rarely point to negative returns. Thus, while valuations are the single most important long-term factor affecting stock prices, in the short term, they are much less impactful. LPL Financial Valuations can tell you when the market has become fully priced and may be more vulnerable to any deterioration in the economic cycle; but we do not view slightly above-average valuations as a risk to continued stock market gains in 2015. Our expectations that stock market returns track mid- to high-single-digit earnings growth suggest valuations are less likely to get out of hand. Burt White is chief investment officer for LPL Financial. This article originally appeared at LPL Financial.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA man is reflected on an electronic stock quotation board outside a brokerage in TokyoBy Lisa Twaronite TOKYO (Reuters) - Asian shares and the dollar got off to a steady start on Wednesday, while oil prices recovered after data showed a drop in U.S. supply. MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan  was flat, while Japan's Nikkei stock average added 0.6 percent in early trade, after marking a seven-year closing high on Tuesday. Wall Street posted solid gains on Tuesday, with the Dow Jones industrial average  closing at a record high, boosted by gains in energy shares as investors searched for bargains in the sector. U.S. crude  was up more than 1 percent to $67.76 a barrel in early Asian trading, after industry group American Petroleum Institute (API) released data showing U.S. crude stocks fell 6.5 million barrels last week. [API/S] In recently volatile trade amid massive oversupply, U.S. crude tumbled on Tuesday after rising 4 percent on Monday, its biggest gain since August 2012. Saudi Arabia would only consider cutting production if other countries, including non-OPEC producer Russia, joined in limits, former Saudi intelligence chief Prince Turki bin Faisal said on Tuesday. While economists fear the sharp drop in global energy prices could fan deflationary pressures in some countries, both New York Fed President William Dudley and Vice Chair Stanley Fischer this week both painted a mostly rosy outlook for the U.S. economy and welcomed the cheaper oil. "Both were relatively optimistic on the U.S. economy and went out of their way to stress upside benefits to U.S. economy of weaker oil prices," Steven Englander, global head of G10 foreign exchange strategy at CitiFX, said in a note. "All of this is extremely positive for USD, given that fed funds has priced in an extremely flat policy hike path and the USD looks extremely sensitive to interest rate differentials in the current environment," he added. Rising Treasury yields added to the appeal of the U.S. dollar on Wednesday. The benchmark 10-year Treasury yield  ticked up to 2.292 percent in Asian trade, up from its U.S. close of 2.285 percent. The greenback was steady at 119.23 yen , not far from its Tuesday high of 119.29, That was its strongest level since August 2007, when it rose as high as 119.84. The euro was flat on the day at $1.2385 . The dollar's recent strength has weighed on spot gold  which dipped 0.2 percent to $1,196.30 an ounce on Wednesday.  (Editing by Shri Navaratnam) FREE AppDownload
 Russian President Vladimir Putin is a sneaky guy, and the new book "Putin’s Kleptocracy" by Karen Dawisha includes more evidence of the Russian president's intrigues. One story involves Putin allegedly taking secret boat rides to the house of a Russian oligarch in Spain, as described by Anne Applebaum in The New York Review of Books. This tale involves a construction company linked to Putin that reportedly received money from the budget of the city of St. Petersburg, where Putin was a close advisor and then deputy mayor from 1991 to 1996. The company subsequently bought property in Spain to construct villas for Putin's friends, reportedly using Russian army labor through Spanish contractors.  "These kinds of reports led Spanish police to become suspicious of Russian activity in Spain, and in the 1990s they began monitoring the Russian oligarch Boris Berezovsky, as well as several well-known leaders of Russian organized crime, all of whom had houses on the southern coast of Spain," Applebaum writes. "In 1999, to their immense surprise, their recorders picked up an unexpected visitor: Putin. He had arrived in Spain illegally, by boat from Gibraltar, having eluded Spanish passport control." At the time of the secret visit, Putin was serving as the head of the FSB (the post-Soviet successor to the KGB). Spanish papers said he crossed into the country on forged documents as many as 37 times altogether. The former KGB lieutenant colonel became Russian prime minister in August 1999 and president in May 2000. Interestingly, it was Berezovsky who is credited with playing kingmaker when Putin was pegged to succeed an ailing Boris Yeltsin as Russian president. "Putin was Berezovsky’s creation," former Berezovsky acquaintance Owen Matthews wrote at The Daily Beast, noting that "Berezovsky thought he’d found a safe pair of hands" for the elite created in the wake of the Soviet Union's immediate demise. But as Dawisha and Applebaum detail, Berezovsky's place at Putin's table was not safe. "Soon after taking over, [Putin] made it clear that he intended to remove the Yeltsin-era elite and to put a new elite in its place—mostly from St. Petersburg, equally corrupt, but loyal exclusively to him," Applebaum writes. In her book, Dawisha notes that "there were also separate allegations that Putin visited Spain on forged documents during the period 1996-2000 in connection with business meetings between himself, Boris Berezovsky, and Russian crime figures. Both these sets of allegations would follow him into the presidency." Berezovsky fled Russia in 2000 and told Matthews in 2005 that he was ready to finance revolutionary change in Russia, adding that “the regime could only be changed through violence.”  Berezovsky was found dead in his London home in a reported suicide in March 2013.    FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jorge SilvaA skyscraper known as the "Tower of David" is seen in Caracas.Santiago (AFP) - Latin America's economies, hit by falling investment, will grow just 1.1 percent in 2014 -- their lowest level in five years, a UN commission on the region said Tuesday. The poor performance of several of Latin America's biggest economies dragged down growth across the region, found the United Nations Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean (ECLAC). Argentina's economy will contract by 0.2 percent this year and Venezuela's by 3.0 percent, it said. Regional giant Brazil's will grow just 0.2 percent. The figures are the latest confirmation of the end of Latin America's so-called "golden decade" of commodities-fueled growth. The International Monetary Fund had made a similar diagnosis in October, forecasting regional economic growth of 1.3 percent for 2014, the lowest in five years, and 2.2 percent in 2015. Regional growth is expected to bounce back slightly in 2015, to 2.2 percent, ECLAC said. It said the sluggish growth came amid a slow and uneven recovery from the global economic crisis, falling commodities prices, increasing financial uncertainty and "scarce dynamism" in Latin America's external demand. Last year the region's economies grew 2.7 percent. Growth this year is set to come in at the lowest level since 2009, when the region's economies contracted 1.3 percent at the height of the global economic crisis. "To invigorate economic growth and stop deceleration in the global economy’s current context entails significant challenges for the region," said the commission's executive secretary, Alicia Barcena, at a press conference in the Chilean capital Santiago. "Among these, it is necessary to revive domestic demand prioritizing the dynamic of investment. This should impact positively on the economies' productivity and competitiveness." ECLAC said one of the keys to reigniting growth was to expand counter-cyclical macroeconomic policy in ways that would protect financing for investment, especially for infrastructure projects, even in gloomy economic weather. Investment in Latin America has been slowing since 2011 and is on track to fall 3.5 percent this year, the commission found. It also recommended increasing the integration of the region's economies as a way to boost productivity and demand and strengthen capacity to deal with external shocks.   - Weak EU, Chinese demand -   Across the region, the picture was largely uneven, ECLAC found. Central America, Haiti and the Spanish-speaking Caribbean were on track to grow 3.7 percent in 2014, but South America would post just 0.7 percent growth, it said. For 2015, it forecast growth of 4.1 percent in Central America, Haiti and the Spanish-speaking Caribbean, 1.8 percent in South America and 2.2 percent in the English-speaking Caribbean. The fastest-growing economies next year will be Panama with 7.0 percent growth, Bolivia with 5.5 percent growth, and the Dominican Republic and Nicaragua with 5.0-percent growth, it predicted. In Brazil, the world's seventh-largest economy, it forecast 1.3 percent growth. The region's larger economies will mostly do better next year, it found, predicting growth of 3.2 percent in Mexico, 3.0 percent in Chile and 4.3 percent in Colombia. Much of Latin America was hit by falling exports this year. While countries such as Mexico and the Dominican Republic benefited from the recovery of the nearby US economy, South America faced sluggish demand and low prices for its commodities in key trade partners China and the European Union.   FREE AppDownload
Rachel Elaine/FlickrThe median sale price of a single family home in the US during October was $193,000, according to RealtyTrac. That's a 16% increase from a year ago – the highest since September 2008. “While price appreciation has leveled off month to month, home prices have increased significantly from a year ago and we expect this trend to continue,” said Craig King, COO of Chase International, in the report. RealtyTrac published a list of the 12 cities and metros with the fastest year-on-year Home Price Appreciation (HPA) last month. Prices rose by at least 10% in all of these markets in October.  FREE AppDownload
The CEOs of the world's biggest companies are keeping their jobs for less and less time. On Tuesday, we highlighted a recent white paper from GMO Capital's James Montier in which Montier takes aim at the idea that companies ought to strive, before all else, at maximizing shareholder returns.  Montier calls this the "world's dumbest idea." In his paper, Montier addresses a number of side effects seen in corporate behavior as a result of this paradigm shift towards shareholder returns over all else. Among these consequences is faster turnover both at the top of the world's biggest companies.  Montier notes that since the 1970s, the average length of time a company stays in the S&amp;P 500 has fallen from nearly 30 years to around 15 years. The tenure of CEOs has also fallen dramatically, from over a decade to less than four years. And so given this trend, Montier writes, "[i]t is little wonder that CEOs may be incentivized to extract maximum rent in the minimum time possible given the shrinkage of their time horizons." Executive compensation over the last twenty years has more and more come to be comprised of stock and stock options rather than cash, which Montier argues gives executives motivation to goose share prices rather than invest in the business.  And the less time a CEO sticks around, the more aggressively they might take actions aimed as boosting share prices.  GMO FREE AppDownload
Yale via Schwab.comThe Crash Confidence Index has gone down steadily since the beginning of 2014.FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors.  Investors Are Getting Increasingly Worried About A Market Crash (Charles Schwab) Investment strategist Liz Ann Sonders considers several measures of individual and institutional investor sentiment in her latest market perspective note. Among other things, she considers the Yale School of Management's Crash Confidence Index. "It should come as no surprise that the all-time low in this survey was near the crescendo of the financial crisis in late-2008," Sonders notes. "At that time, confidence among individuals and institutions was nearly equally low that there would be no market crash. Earlier this year, the reading ticked up to its highest level of the current bull market, meaning investors were less worried about a crash. But what’s most interesting lately is that alongside a very strong market rally since October, this survey has dropped noticeably, meaning investors’ worries about a crash have gone up alongside the market’s rally." Schorsch Resigned As CEO From At Least 6 Companies He Oversaw (Investment News)  In the latest development of the unraveling of the Schorsch empire, Nicholas Schorsch has resigned as CEO from at least six companies he has been overseeing (three of which are nontraded REITs), reports Bruce Kelly. Schorsch's investment partner, William Kahane, will be taking over two of them. "Separating the role of chairman and CEO is regarded as a positive for corporate government in REITs and the corporate world in general, according to Kevin Gannon, president and managing director at Robert A. Stanger &amp; Co. Inc, an investment bank that focuses on nontraded REITs," reports Kelly. The Ultrawealthy Population Grew By 6% This Year (Think Advisors) The ultrawealthy population of the world (defined as those individuals with assets of $30 million or more) grew by 6% in 2014. Their combined assets grew by 7%, reports Michael S. Fischer. The Middle East saw the largest increase in the ultrawealthy population, at 12.7%, followed by Africa with an 8.3% increase. Latin America and the Caribbean saw the smallest increase at 4.6%. Altogether, the ultrawealthy make up 0.0004% of the world's population, but control 12.8% of the wealth. Global Bonds Are Going To See Lower Volatility Despite Longer Duration (Vanguard)  "Duration is a less effective measure of interest rate risk for globally diversified bond portfolios," writes Vanguard's Brian Scott. The problem with using duration as a metric is that it assumes a uniform rise or fall in interest rates for bonds of all maturities and issuers, he adds. But that's not how things work in the real world: Bond values are affected unevenly. Additionally, "the yield for global bonds, similar to duration, isn't very meaningful when comparing them with domestic bonds," writes Scott. Instead, "in a rising-rate environment, hedged global bonds can play a powerful role in diversifying risk and reducing the interest rate exposure of any one government," writes Scott. The Strong Dollar Is Here To Stay (Advisor Perspectives)  "In our view, this summer's [dollar] rally does not represent a correction or near-term adjustment, but rather the continuation of a broader trend that started in the middle of 2011. Should our analysis prove correct, we believe this period of dollar strength could just be getting started," writes Bradley Krom. There are three reasons the dollar strength could stay. First, the US economy is diverging from its developed-market peers in relative growth rates, potential changes in monetary policy, and in inflation outlook. Second, emerging-market currencies "appear less attractive" than the US dollar. And third, the "recent upswing in US economic momentum has caused not just a rebound in US asset prices, but an increase in the strength of the US dollar as well," writes Krom. FREE AppDownload
According to Esther Perel, the couples therapist and best-selling author of "Mating in Captivity," the term "erotic intelligence" came about accidentally as a spoof on Daniel Goleman's idea of "emotional intelligence." As Perel's work began to develop around it, she realized it was the perfect term to encapsulate the state of mind she viewed as being different from sexuality. Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis. Additional camera by Justin Gmoser. Follow BI Video: On YouTube
FlickrStocks rallied on Tuesday, paring back some of their losses from Monday as the Dow powered to yet another record high. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Tuesday: 1. The biggest economic data report on Tuesday was construction spending data, which showed spending jumped 1.1% in October, more than the 0.6% increase that was forecast. Following the report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro said in a note to clients that, "In one line: Better, at last, but could just be noise... This is the first clear increase in construction spending since May, though as always remember that these numbers are subject to often-large revisions. Still, the October details show a broad-based gain, with solid increases in both the public and private sectors, though all the 0.6% increase in the private sector was in the residential component, where new housing construction jumped 1.7%; by contrast, non-res spending dipped a tenth." 2. Oil prices were still volatile on Tuesday, with crude falling a bit after a big rally on Monday off of the weekend lows, settling around $67.25 a barrel. And while many have attributed the decline in prices, Ed Yardeni wrote on Tuesday that perhaps the global economy is simply weaker than currently recognized.  3. And while the price of oil has been falling, stocks have held up well, as the Dow hit a new record on Tuesday and the S&amp;P 500 is just 6 points its all-time high. And in an afternoon email on Tuesday, NYSE floor governor Rich Barry gave five reasons why some traders on the floor are so bullish about 2015. In short, the third year of a presidential term is usually a winner, and especially when it's a second-term president. And if stocks hold on for their third straight year of double-digit gains, they will be fighting history not to go higher next year, as no time in the last 84 years have stocks declined after three straight years of double-digit gains. 4. On Tuesday, Russia's economy ministry downgraded its 2015 GDP forecast from growth of 1.2% to contraction of 0.8%, meaning that Russia expects to fall into recession next year. After the ruble hit an all-time low against the US dollar on Monday, the economic problems are adding up for Russia. Business Insider's Elena Holodny also outlined another major problem facing Russia: brain drain. During each of 2012, 2013, and 2014, more than 100,000 people have left the country after fewer than 40,000 Russians emigrated in 2010 and 2011. 5. The US-traded ETF that tracks the Russian stock market and trades under the ticker 'RSX' continues to fall, and while former White House press secretary Jay Carney once looked foolish for telling people they should short the Russian stock market back in March, that call now looks great: RSX is down about 19% since Carney's call. 6. In a tweet on Tuesday morning, Janus Capital's Bill Gross said that if interest rates move back towards the 3% or 4% that New York Fed president Bill Dudley has suggested they could, then bonds might be overpriced by 2% or 3%. Gross' comments come after another bond heavyweight, Jeff Gundlach, said in an interview with CNBC that Treasuries still look relatively cheap. Don't Miss: Oil Has Been The 'Glue' Holding Nigeria Together, And Now It's Failing » FREE AppDownload
Joseph LavorgnaIf oil prices remain low, expect a slowdown in energy-related capital expenditures, says Joseph LaVorgna, Deutsche Bank's chief US economist. As the price of oil goes, so does investment in new equipment with a lag of about two quarters. What you shouldn't expect, though, is a major drop in GDP as a result.  In total, capex spending accounts for 9% of GDP, says LaVorgna. But, lower energy investment doesn't make up close to all of that. And any reduction is likely to be offset by consumer spending given lower gas prices.  Here's the calculus, from LaVorgna's note:  If crude prices remain near current levels, given the aforementioned relationship between prices and energy-related capital expenditures, this would imply roughly a 20% year-over-year decline in oil and gas capex. In turn, this would subtract approximately 20 basis points (bps) from 2015 real GDP growth. Compared to some countries that rely heavily on oil revenues, the hit on US economic output relatively insignificant. And overall, the outlook for 2015 business spending is still looking pretty good, LaVorgna says. FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ Steve Marcus PIMCO CIO Dan Ivascyn.NEW YORK (Reuters) - The Pimco Total Return Fund posted its 19th straight month of outflows in November, totaling $9.5 billion, but withdrawals are down dramatically since former Chief Investment Officer Bill Gross' exit.  Dan Ivascyn, who replaced Gross, said on Tuesday that net cash outflows from various funds had tapered off and performance had improved following a drop after Gross left on Sept. 26.  "We've been very stable in implementing our investment process from the first day of Bill's departure," Ivascyn said. "From that perspective, we’ve been in very good shape."  In November, the Pimco Total Return Fund bled $9.5 billion, but that compares with a record $27.5 billion of withdrawals in October and $23.5 billion reported for September, according to a statement by Pacific Investment Management Co.  In November, the $162.8 billion Pimco Total Return Fund, under a new team led by long-time Pimco portfolio manager Scott Mather, posted returns of 1.00 percent, beating 99 percent of its intermediate-term category group, according to Morningstar data.  While that boosts Pimco Total Return's overall year-to-date return to 5.20 percent, the flagship Pimco fund is still trailing 62 percent of its peer category for the year.  Mather acknowledged that a turnaround of Pimco Total Return would not come overnight. "It takes many quarters, sometimes, for some themes to pay off," he said.  Mather said the Total Return Fund had taken on a defensive approach in many different sectors, with an underweight position in corporate credit and mortgages. That has protected it from recent spread-widening over the last month, which contributed to relative outperformance, he said.  "You look at the overall yield of the strategies in Total Return, and it is not a yield-chasing strategy as some people might define it," Mather said.  "We're not focused on just buy-and-hold," he said. "We are very much looking at smaller, relative-value trades we can put in place, and when the values are realized, we take them off. It's not a low-credit-quality strategy."  Gross, who managed the Pimco Total Return Fund and co-founded Pimco more than 40 years ago, resigned to join rival Janus Capital Group Inc &lt;JNS.N&gt;.  Pimco, a unit of Allianz SE &lt;ALVG.DE&gt;, reported outflows of $48.3 billion across its open-ended funds in October, adding to $25.5 billion of withdrawals in the previous month after Gross left the company, according to Morningstar.  "We're still positioned across our portfolios based on a world where we think growth is going to continue to be quite sluggish," Ivascyn said. "I think the theme reflected in the U.S.-focused portfolios is this idea of U.S. decoupling – divergence in terms of growth patterns - from other countries."  Ivascyn said Pimco was optimistic about the U.S. economy but cautious in general.  He also said Pimco believed the Federal Reserve would begin raising rates gradually in the middle to the end of the third quarter of 2015.  "We do see them getting off of zero at some point next year," he said, "and that's reflected in our portfolios."  (Reporting by Jennifer Ablan; Editing by Lisa Von Ahn)  FREE AppDownload
GettyAbercrombie, Aeropostale, and American Eagle are stuck in a wasteland. The former rulers of teen retail will announce earnings this week, and analysts expect lackluster results.  "The group continues to reel from increased competition, a core customer group that is uninterested in logo product (or apparel in general) and a generally 'blah' fashion season," writes Eric Beder, specialty retail analyst at Wunderlich Securities.  Abercrombie and Aeropostale report earnings Wednesday, while American Eagle's announcement comes Thursday.  All three companies' shares have been turbulent in recent years because of a shift in teen consumers' attitudes.  Simply put, these clothing brands simply aren't cool anymore, the analysts write.  Teenagers used to be some of the most lucrative customers for apparel companies. Fickle and obsessed with their appearances, many teens had no problem shelling out for trendy items at Abercrombie, American Eagle, and Aeropostale in order to fit in at school.  But the mentality of teenage consumers is changing rapidly, according to Piper Jaffray's recent Taking Stock With Teens survey.  Researchers found that today's teens are increasingly spending on technology and food over clothing.  For the first time in history, teens are spending as much on food as they are on clothing, according to the analysts at Piper Jaffray. This is fueled by trendy coffee drinks at Starbucks, the top food retailer among the demographic. Many teens are also more concerned with having a new iPhone than a name-brand t-shirt, according to the survey.  When they do buy trendy clothes, teens are value-conscious. They prefer fast-fashion companies like H&amp;M and Forever 21 to the more expensive specialty stores.  Denim is also losing popularity to stretchy yoga pants from retailers like Lululemon and Nike, the analysts at Wunderlich write.  The troubling trends in the teen market have led to Abercrombie marketing to people in their 20s for the first time in decades.  FREE AppDownload
Flick via Google Images Wards Auto estimates the pace of sales jumped to an annualized rate of 17.08 million units. This was up from 16.35 million in October, and it was better than the 16.55 million expected by analysts. Detroit's big three all be expectations. Chrysler reported a 20.1% jump in sales, beating expectations for 15.9% growth. GM sales climbed 6.5%, which was much stronger than the 2.6% increase forecast by analysts. Ford sales fell 1.8%, but it wasn't as bad as the 2.0% drop expected. So far, every major automaker that's reported their November results have beaten expectations. "Autos haven’t typically been a focus of Black Friday, but last year the industry made a push to get in on the holiday sales frenzy to good results, and there’s an effort underway again this year to get more people into dealerships after Thanksgiving," Morgan Stanley's Ted Wieseman noted last week. Here's a tally:   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Sergei KarpukhinElvira Nabiullina, head of the Central Bank of Russia.State Duma deputy and chairman of the Committee on Economic Policy and Entrepreneurship,  Yevgeniy Fedorov, has called for a criminal investigation of the Russian Central Bank, according to a report by NewsRu. "We have sent a request to initiate criminal proceedings against the Central Bank. The Prosecutor's General Office replied that it is working on it, and that they have started a preliminary examination of the actions of the Central Bank," he said on the radio station "<U+0420><U+0443><U+0441><U+0441><U+043A><U+0430><U+044F> <U+0441><U+043B><U+0443><U+0436><U+0431><U+0430> <U+043D><U+043E><U+0432><U+043E><U+0441><U+0442><U+0435><U+0439>".  "The Central Bank — it is the institutional enemy of the country... I assume that it will do the maximum harm. The Central Bank will do everything to make the ruble fall and the interest rates rise," he added. He accused the Central Bank of violating the 75th article of the Russian Constitution, which states that its primary function is the protection and stability of the ruble, reports "<U+0420><U+0443><U+0441><U+0441><U+043A><U+0430><U+044F> <U+0441><U+043B><U+0443><U+0436><U+0431><U+0430> <U+043D><U+043E><U+0432><U+043E><U+0441><U+0442><U+0435><U+0439>". Growth in the Russian economy has disappeared as the country has come under the pressure of economic sanctions, falling oil revenue, and a tanking ruble. However, unlike many western central banks like the Federal Reserve, the European Central Bank, the Bank of England and the Bank of Japan, Russia central bank has kept monetary policy tight despite calls for more dovishness. In fact Russia's central bank has actually been raising rates. On October 31, it hiked its benchmark rate to 9.5% from 8.0%. Trading Economics/Central Bank of RussiaRates have gone up to 9.5%. "Those who follow the central bank say the hawkish moves are a result of Putin, known for closely managing Russia's machinery of power, giving the bank's technocrats free rein," Reuters' Lidia Kelly and Oksana Kobzeva reported. On Monday, the ruble crashed to an all-time low, down as much as 8% earlier on in the day (before seeing a slight rebound.) And on Tuesday, the exchange rate got up as high as 53.97 rubles to 1 dollar. Additionally, on Tuesday, Russia's Economy Ministry downgraded its GDP forecast for the country in 2015 from 1.2% growth to a 0.8% contraction — meaning that the country has started falling into a recession. "Recession in Russia is now a certainty," writes Frances Coppola. "The only question is how deep and prolonged it will be, and that depends on two things — the behaviour of the oil price, and the effectiveness of Western sanctions. And, of course, how Russian politicians react to both of these." Here's a look at the ruble (orange) tanking against the dollar. It's tracked the plunge in oil prices (green). Bloomberg.com   FREE AppDownload
Courtesy of SabatinoSabatino Truffles unearthed the world’s largest truffle on record this past week. Found in central Italy, the massive truffle weighs 4.16 pounds, which is almost twice the size of the current record holder, according to a press release.  White truffles are an incredibly sought after ingredient, and one of the rarest and most expensive foods in the world. Just a few shavings of the coveted ingredient can cost hundreds of dollars in restaurants, according to CBS news.  Buyers from Macau, China have already offered $1 million for the massive fungi. But the company will auction off the truffle in New York City this week, "in order to get the highest bid so that they can donate all proceeds to charity," Jane Walsh of Sabatino Truffles told Business Insider.  This white truffle is an especially rare find, as white truffles are only available for a few months of the year and can cost up to three times more than their black truffle counterpart. They are found in forests around Italy by specially trained truffle-sniffing dogs or pigs during the months of October, November, and December. One million dollars may seem like a staggering price tag, but these rare fungi usually sell for similar prices.  A pair of white truffles from Alba sold for over $125,000 this past November and Russian oligarch Vladimir Potanin spent $95,000 for four pounds of white truffle in October.  Here is an image of the massive truffle upon its arrival at JFK airport:  Courtesy of Sabatino FREE AppDownload
 I have a friend who doesn't live in New York, but went to grad school here and visits often. When he plans a trip, he regularly books two dinner reservations at hard-to-get-into restaurants on the OpenTable app. An hour or two before dinner, he chooses one and cancels the other. It's a great system for him, less so for the restaurants who are all of a sudden out a spot. They'll probably be able to fit in a walk-in, but maybe not. This is what Nick Kokonas' new reservation, deposit, and payment system, Tock, is attempting to cut down on when it launches in 2015 — at least for the highest-end restaurants. There are a couple of different ways that restaurants can use the system: simple reservations, prepaid meal reservations (generally excluding wine and anything extra you might want to order at the table), and dynamically priced meals. Dynamic reservations allow restaurants to charge more during peak periods, and to offer discounts to people who are willing to eat at 5:30 or 10:30 p.m. Some of the most expensive, high-profile restaurants in the US are experimenting with the pre-paid option. Eater reports that two of Thomas Keller's restaurants, The French Laundry in California and Per Se in New York, will start asking customers to pay ahead of time next year. A beta version of the system is already in place at the two restaurants that Kokonas owns with Grant Achatz in Chicago, as well at Coi in San Francisco, LA's Trois Mec, and WD~50 in New York (which used the system in its final weeks, before closing for good on Nov. 30). Ticketing systems in the past haven't worked very well. Volver, a restaurant in Philadelphia, experimented with a similar system earlier this year before abandoning it in September. Ryan Sutton wrote back in July, "I spent 30 Sisyphean minutes navigating through various pitfalls in the system, gave up, took a hot shower, regrouped, then called the restaurant and purchased my reservations over the phone in 120 seconds." If the functionality of Tock is right, there isn't any reason it can't work, particularly if it offers a simple reservation system for lower-end, a la carte restaurants. OpenTable's free restaurant reservation system is nearly ubiquitous in US metro areas. Priceline.com bought it for $2.6 billion earlier this year. And the pre-paid part of the system could be ideal for high-end, set-menu restaurants that have very high up-front costs. It not only would help them manage their cash flow, but would help protect them from last-minute cancellations. Pre-paid dinners probably won't work for 95% of restaurants in New York (or any other city). But a tasting menu at Per Se or the French Laundry is not a meal. It's an event.  For this reason, it's easier to imagine that people would be willing to buy a ticket in a way that they wouldn't for a nice, two-stars-from-the-Times kind of place on a regular Friday night. People pay for lots of other high-end entertainment well in advance. Why not food?    FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsWall Street's predictions for 2015 have been rolling in over the last few weeks. Overall, all strategists highlighted by Business Insider expect the market to eke out gains in 2015, but only a couple of strategists expect gains to be near the roughly 11% rally the S&amp;P 500 has enjoyed so far this year. However, NYSE floor governor Rich Barry on Tuesday gave us a look at what some traders on the floor are seeing when looking forward to 2015. And the short answer: big gains. Barry writes that, "For hints and clues [about 2015], a few seasoned veteran floor-denizens dusted off their editions of the Stock Traders Almanac (for historical patterns)... Hold on to your helmets, because you might be surprised by some of their findings." What these traders found is that there are five big reasons why stock market bulls should be psyched about 2015: So there's that. FREE AppDownload
 Veteran Merrill Lynch brokers have been leaving Bank of America Merrill Lynch and taking billions in assets elsewhere, and it's not just because they don't want to drink wheatgrass shots and meditate.  Insiders say that Bank of America is encouraging practices that hurt its brokers' business and relationship with clients.  Bank of America wants "you to be an asset gatherer," one veteran Merrill broker said. "It seems like the banking side thinks it knows better than the broker dealer ... They want everyone to look the same, act the same, and wear pins the way Bank of America bankers do." Bank of America bought Merrill Lynch during the height of the financial crisis, and the marriage hasn't always been a happy one. Among themselves, brokers wonder whether Bank of America CEO Brian Moynihan cares for the brokerage business.  Merrill brokers used to have an entrepreneurial spirit antithetical to the desire for uniformity that Bank of America allegedly champions. That dissonance is a large part of the reason why key teams are leaving the firm — teams like Pennsylvania's Spanos Group, with $535 million under management, and Stephen Brown and James Goetz's $2.5 billion Pittsford, New York, team. Brown tells Business Insider that after his 23 years at Merrill, he and Goetz were let go and went to Stifel, "as a client first firm that is loyal to its advisors." That isn't the only place Merrill alum are ending up, of course. "A lot of Merrill brokers leave to go to UBS, or go on their own, or maybe even to Morgan Stanley," the current Merrill broker told Business Insider. "Old-line Merrill guys go to other players because it seems the bank side is taking over." And what the bank side wants isn't just control of what financial advisers are telling their clients to buy, the broker says, it's a new a distribution process that separates advisers from their clients. Brokers are "suggested" to direct clients with less than $250,000 assets under management to Merrill Lynch's call centers where young financial advisers are trained. "You send them to the call center because you really don't have much of a choice," the broker said. "The client calls, and says, 'I came to work with you, not someone I don't know.' Then what do you say to them?" Another option available to Merrill brokers is to tell clients that they can manage their portfolios themselves through BAML's online Edge platform. To many brokers, all of this seems to be undermining their business, especially in parts of the US where $100,000 (for example) is a significant amount of money. Professional financial advisers welcome the challenge of growing that money with their client. Part of the problem is Bank of America CEO Brian Moynihan, who was an executive at Fleet Boston from 1999 to 2004 and didn't have the best history with brokerages. At Fleet he was integral in the high-profile acquisition of two brokerages — Quick &amp; Reilly and Robertson Stephens. Quick &amp; Reilly morphed into something else entirely, and Robertson Stephens was closed down in 2003. This isn't just a Moynihan issue, though. In 1997, when most of what we know as Bank of America was Nationsbank, the bank bought Montgomery Securities, a firm brokers still remember for its top talent. By 2005 most of that talent had fled, and the remaining brokers were turned into private bankers. "Bank of America is trying to 'Bankamericatise' Merrill Lynch, and the older guys are fed up," one former Bank of America banker said. "I suspect the US Trust private bankers are tired of all the nonsense. But Brian is running the show." Now it seems far less likely that Bank of America would get rid of a brokerage business. That's because since the financial crisis, wealth management has become a hot moneymaking business for Wall Street, taking the place of trading and investment banking in some cases. Bank of America, for its part, has grown its Global Wealth and Investment Management revenue from 13.5% in 3Q’09 to 22% in 3Q’14. “Our financial results, by every measure, show that we are a leader in the industry and that we are headed in the right direction. We are committed to delivering positive outcomes for our clients that help them achieve their goals," said Bank of America spokesperson, Susan McCabe. That said, Merrill brokers who want to leave the firm have a few options aside from big Wall Street banks like Morgan Stanley or UBS. The Spanos team, for example, went to Raymond James. "In small towns like that it makes more sense to align with an Raymond James or an LPL Financial as opposed to going to the full independent platforms, as you get some home office administration and operations support," one Wall Street veteran said. Another option is to simply go it alone. These brokers may very well like it better that way.   FREE AppDownload
Don't time it. After almost a decade working in wealth management firms and large banks, I’ve come to understand this simple fact: Unless you're a standup comedian, you probably don't have timing down. I started my career in 2004 — heady days — researching on contract for investment teams while I was still an undergrad. After college, I moved into wealth management. Investors were chasing equities like 6-year-olds go after Halloween candy. Diversification was just another word for missing out. During the panic of late 2008 and early 2009, my clients abandoned stocks, and often their entire investment plan, in droves. Rebalance the portfolio to buy on the dip? No way. Wealth advisors were all charlatans. Brokers were predators. Banks were just scary places where money vaporized. The only safe place was the mattress, or an underground bunker. At 26, I was not the world's most inspiring proponent of long-term investing. Some of my clients had owned some assets before I was born. In 2008, many went to cash. Two years later, many regretted it. Yes, the market tumbled, but it eventually rose again. We are now in the midst of one of the longest bull markets in US history. Still, when I left for graduate school in mid-2010, less than 60% of my clients who had cashed out were back into equities, and even they felt like they were jumping into the north Atlantic in January. The goal of asset allocation is, in theory, to provide insulation against market fluctuations, and to take advantage of them. Risk assessment is supposed to determine your asset allocation by gauging how you would react in circumstances like the Great Recession. We tend to be Pollyannish when we assess ourselves, often ignoring how we would actually feel if we lost 20% of our portfolio. Flickr / Antony MarquesAnyone can be susceptible to human nature. How many of my clients changed their goal-based, vetted asset allocations in 2009? More than 75%. I'm sure the opposite is happening again now — as equities have risen, investors clamor to increase equity exposure regardless of assessment results. There are few known remedies for human nature, although automation might do the trick. I write like I didn't get sucked into the panic of the crash. I did. I cashed out of a diversified portfolio and opted for 100% money market in my non-retirement account. I was saving for grad school, and didn't have a clear picture of my upcoming expenses — cash in hand seemed safer than stocks roiling in the markets. Like many investors, I missed out on a significant portion of the Bull Run. I did, however, find peace of mind over that time and learned, to parse a phrase, that you can't always get what you want, but you might find that you get what you need. Today, with near all-time highs in US equities, I'm back to a fully diversified portfolio. If the market drops 20% or more again, will I run to cash? Doubtful. I'll just try to avoid my 19th nervous breakdown ... This article originally appeared at FutureAdvisor.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Business InsiderThe holiday season means holiday parties, and if your schedule is anything like ours, you're going to be buying a lot of wine. We asked sommelier Jörn Kleinhans, owner of the Wine Elite Sommelier Company, to share some of his favorite affordable picks. FREE AppDownload
Automakers reported November new-car sales for the U.S. on Tuesday and for the second time this year, the pace came in above 17 million.  Most analysts and market observers expected a lower pace than that — something closet to 16.5 million. It's important to remember, by the way, that robust new car and truck sales are happening in the context of high average transaction prices — almost $34,000 per vehicle, according to Kelley Blue Book. It's also important to remember that many of those sales are sales of trucks and SUVs, vehicles that are extremely profitable for automakers. Car companies doing business in the U.S. haven't seen a year this good since before the financial crisis.  The question everyone is now asking: Will 2014 come in at or below 17 million? The stage is set for a 17-million year, with one month to go.  There are three main drivers: •Pent-up demand. The average age of vehicle on U.S. roads is 11 years. That's historically ridiculous. Americans don't drive old cars. And now, they're getting rid of all those old cars and buying new ones. •Easy credit. Lack of access to credit crushed the U.S. auto market in the 2009-2010 period. Five years later, banks and the automakers' finance arms are competing for both credit-worthy customers and expanding lending to subprime borrowers. •Cheap gas. With gas prices falling like a rock, consumers are far less concerned about a car being a big drag on monthly budgets. This is bringing them back to the larger vehicles they've always favored. And consumers who haven't been driving are going to start again. At the more macro level, the improving overall economy is also contributing to surging auto sales. If you don't have a job, you don't buy a new car. If you have a job, you can. What could prevent a 17-million 2014? My pet theory is that the longtime bestselling vehicle in the U.S. could be the only factor holding us back. Ford recently revamped production for its legendary F-150 pickup truck, to be able to build it with more aluminum, reducing weight and improving fuel efficiency.  That's crimped F-150 supply in the short term. It will recover, and of course other automakers sell full-size pickups. But if the F-150 hadn't been revamped, I think 17 million would almost be a lock at this point. FREE AppDownload
Everyone "loves" this chart that tracks the size of the Fed's balance sheet and the number of words in the Fed's monetary policy announcements. Except now it's broken. In his monthly chartbook circulated on Monday, Deutsche Bank economist Torsten Slok updated the chart following the Fed's October policy statement. In October, the number of words in the Fed's statement shrank back to levels not seen since the Fed embarked on its latest round of quantitative easing. Coincidentally — or maybe not — the Fed ended this quantitative easing program at its last meeting.  This was a fun chart while it lasted, but don't forget the thing about correlations that David Einhorn highlighted in our most recent Most Important Charts feature: be careful.  Deutsche Bank FREE AppDownload
Flickr via Google Images So what is it? When working with a quantitative data set, one of the first things we want to know is what the "typical" element of the set looks like, or where the middle of the set is. We do this by finding a mean or a median, or some other related measure of average. But knowing the middle of the set doesn't tell us everything. We also want to know more about the overall shape of our data. Standard deviation is a measure of how spread out a data set is. It's used in a huge number of applications. In finance, standard deviations of price data are frequently used as a measure of volatility. In opinion polling, standard deviations are a key part of calculating margins of error. First, let's look at what a standard deviation is measuring.  Consider two small businesses with four employees each. In one business, two employees make $19 an hour and the other two make $21. In the second business, two employees make $15 an hour, one makes $24, and the last makes $26: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz Standard deviation is a measure of how far away individual measurements tend to be from the mean value of a data set. The standard deviation of company A's employees is 1, while the standard deviation of company B's wages is about 5. In general, the larger the standard deviation of a data set, the more spread out the individual points are in that set. The technical definition of standard deviation is somewhat complicated. First, for each data value, find out how far the value is from the mean by taking the difference of the value and the mean. Then, square all of those differences. Then, take the average of those squared differences. Finally, take the square root of that average. The reason we go through such a complicated process to define standard deviation is that this measure appears as a parameter in a number of statistical and probabilistic formulas, most notably the normal distribution.  Wikimedia Commons That curve shows, roughly speaking, how likely it is that a random process following a normal distribution will take on a particular value along the horizontal axis. Values near the peak, where the curve is highest, are more likely than values farther away, where the curve is closer to the horizontal axis. Normal distributions appear in situations where there are a large number of independent but similar random events occurring. Things like heights of people in a particular population tend to roughly follow a normal distribution. Standard deviations are important here because the shape of a normal curve is determined by its mean and standard deviation. The mean tells you where the middle, highest part of the curve should go. The standard deviation tells you how skinny or wide the curve will be. If you know these two numbers, you know everything you need to know about the shape of your curve. Flipping this idea around, normal distributions also give us a good way to interpret standard deviations. In any normal distribution, there are fixed probabilities for intervals around the mean, based on multiples of the standard deviation of the distribution. In particular, about two-thirds of measurements of a normally distributed quantity should fall within one standard deviation of the mean, 95% of measurements within two standard deviations of the mean, and 99.7% within three standard deviations of the mean. This illustration of the normal curve lists these values: Dan Kernler, via Wikimedia Commons Suppose there's a standardized test that hundreds of thousands of students take. If the test's questions are well designed, the students' scores should be roughly normally distributed. Say the mean score on the test is 100, with a standard deviation of 10 points. The rule mentioned above means that about two-thirds of the students should have scores between 90 and 110, 95% of students should be between 80 and 120, and nearly all the students — 99.7% — should have scores within three standard deviations of the mean. Any questions?      FREE AppDownload
Getty/Alberto E. Rodriguez The Fugees' Pras Michel is among a group of investors looking to buy The PlazaIt looks like Saudi billionaire Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal is not the only one interested in The Plaza hotel. A group of investors that includes Pras Michel of the hip-hop group The Fugees and New York sports agent David Sugarman is also looking to take the hotel off majority stakeholder Sahara Group's hands, according to The Wall Street Journal. That's because Sahara's founder and chairman, Subrata Roy, is in jail right now and needs to raise money for bail. He was arrested in February in the midst of an investor fraud court case in India, after failing to turn up for a hearing. Now his conglomerate, Sahara Group, is looking to refinance its 75 percent stake in the property rather than sell it, according to the Journal. Mirach Capital, the investors group, which is funded largely by a wealthy Indian family, has already agreed to lend $1.55 billion to Sahara, $900 million of which will go to debt refinancing. The rest will likely go toward Roy's bail. But Mirach has made it clear their end goal is to own The Plaza, as well as two other hotels that Sahara currently owns. Meanwhile, it's still unclear whether Prince Alwaleed, who currently owns the other 25 percent of the hotel, will make a deal with Mirach - or whether he's made a formal offer for Roy's stake in the property. FREE AppDownload
Israel and Cyprus have launched a new push for EU funds to build a pipeline that could bring about 10 billion cubic metres (bcm) of their natural gas to Europe annually, and ease the continent’s energy security anxieties. But Palestinians are warning that without a broader resolution of regional disputes, the pipeline risks becoming a source of conflict.   The Cyprus-centered project could be the world’s longest pipeline if built, stretching up to 1,530km, and passing through depths of up to 3,000m.  The Israeli energy minister, Silvan Shalom, raised the issue at a ministerial conference in Rome last week and held talks on the margins with the EU’s vice president for energy union, Maros Sefkovic, Israeli sources say.  Israel, Greece and Cyprus expect a formal meeting with Sefkovic to discuss ways of actualizing the project, on the fringes of an EU energy ministers’ summit on 9 December.  “The three countries involved intend to raise this issue [on the 9th] as it involves funding from the commission,” an EU diplomat said. Israel, as a non-EU member, will depend on its partner countries’ powers of persuasion.  With energy diversification and security both rising up Europe’s political agenda, “it looks like the stars have aligned in one position now and that might be good for our timing,” Guy Feldman, an advisor to Shalom told the Guardian. Cyprus Press and Information Office/APAn oil and gas rig some 115 miles off Cyprus' south coast. But the Palestinian Authority cautioned the EU against signing any contract until territorial gas disputes with neighboring countries such as Lebanon were resolved.  “The objective of energy security starts with a clear cut boundary of all the gas fields,” said the PA’s energy minister, Omar Kettaneh. “Otherwise instead of being a source of security the pipeline will be a source of conflict.”  In 2010, the US Geological Survey (USGS) estimated that the Levant Basin, could hold more than 3,455bcm of gas, which is comparable to Iraq’s reserves.   But until now, political instability has hindered its exploitation, with Israeli and Cypriot claims to overlapping gas fields contested by Lebanon and Turkey, respectively.  In 2012, Israel, Cyprus and Greece signed a deal to promote exports of their gas to the EU through an eastern Mediterranean corridor.   The planned offshore pipeline, which diplomats say could transport between 8-15bcm of natural gas annually, has already been selected for “project of common interest” status by the EU. This potentially gives it access to a €5.85bn fund, and preferential treatment from multilateral banks.  “It is technically challenging and because of that it might be financially challenging,” Feldman said. “But Minister Shalom said in Rome that if the EU will lend a shoulder on the financing, it might be a feasible option,” Feldman said.  A commission timeline estimates that the pipeline could begin pumping gas by 2020, four years after the Leviathan field, which contains around 450bcm of gas comes online.  As well as Leviathan, the already operating Tamar field has proven reserves of 283bcm. Israel also has several smaller gas fields and is searching for more exploitable reserves. The country wants to export up to 60% of the gas it produces, Feldman said.  A commission spokesperson said that east Mediterranean gas finds such as Leviathan “could play a very important role in helping both producing and neighboring countries to address their energy security problems. They could also have a growing role in the EU’s diversification strategy, contributing not only to the security of the region but to the entire EU.”  But Kettaneh said that such words rang hollow in Gaza, which has been prevented from exploiting its own natural gas resources as a result of Israel’s blockade, and internal political divisions.   “It is ironic to talk about energy security for the EU when Gaza only enjoys five hours of daily electricity, and people are dying in hospitals because of a lack of electricity,” he said. “We should actually be talking about energy security for all.”    FREE AppDownload
Watch auctions and dedicated timepiece auction houses are more popular now than ever before, and we'd like to try to explain what you need to know before becoming a potential auction bidder.  Without a doubt, it is an exciting time to be a watch lover, because the world is talking about timepieces more than ever. On the one hand, you have the gradual emergence of the smartwatch industry that, despite concerns from some low-end brands, will likely have the outcome of making people notice wrist watches more than the general public has in the last 20 years.  On the other hand, you have a new form of financial investment mentality surrounding the exciting world of high-end luxury watch auctions and the rising ceiling of potential values, as well as the apparent expanding pool of potential watch buyers. The result isn't just an increasing frequency of watch-themed auctions, but also entire new businesses dedicated to bringing more watches to auction for more people. I would go so far as to say that the watch auction market is in a bubble. Existing auction houses are increasingly focused on timepieces, and many new auction houses are popping up hoping to attract horological collectors around the world. I talked about some of the major watch auction houses here on Forbes. There are so many timepiece-related auction houses and so many timepiece-themed auction events, it is, in my opinion, mostly unsustainable for the long run. Many of these events focus on just a few featured auction lots or highlight pieces that the organizers hope will attract major collectors; the rest of the auction lots are far less interesting pieces. Don't forget that rare and valuable timepieces are actually rare. It isn't common for there to be timepieces such as the Patek Philippe Supercomplication that go for $24,000,000. The competition for "blockbuster lots" is getting fierce, and in some circumstances, auction houses are accused of unethical conduct in disclosing the provenance of a watch as related to its total authenticity or actual ownership. To that latter point, it should be stated that in many instances, celebrity ownership of a watch can vastly increase its value. There are other factors that I will discuss below, which I feel people interested in participating in watch auctions should know before fully committing to a major purchase or bidding at one of the major watch auction events around the world. We don't cover watch auctions on aBlogtoWatch that often for pretty specific reasons. First of all, there are so many of them that we could talk about upcoming auctions a few times a week, and the rest of the time discuss their results. Most of them are just people trying to sell stuff, and so covering them isn't all that interesting to me personally, because it doesn't offer information about new products, interesting techniques, or how to better appreciate timepieces on an intimate level. Further, the yielded prices that auction houses promote aren't those that represent the value of most watches. In fact, in a lot of instances, watches sold at auction are pretty cheap. The lots they highlight are those of a few select timepieces that are pretty rare to begin with, but that tend to circulate at auction a lot. Mostly, I don't necessarily trust watch auction results in terms of indicating trends or the inherent value of items. An example is that the same model watch can go for $1,000 in one auction and $5,000 in another auction for no other reason than emotions and the people who happen to be paying attention at the event. Emotions, of course, are important and are the basis of all "collecting" and appreciation of art. Having said that, I personally feel that prices at auctions need to be more about inherent value, rather than competition amongst a select group of privileged buyers. I want to offer a summary of my personal feelings about watch auctions by suggesting that in a huge way, they are very valuable for people looking for good prices on used or older watch models. If, however, you are thinking about watch auctions as an investment vehicle or believe they are a good basis for valuing a brand or its products, then it would be wise to proceed with caution. The auction world is one place where the concept of caveat emptor should be something for people to consider. So here are 10 important things you should know about watch auctions: You aren't likely to get rich by purchasing timepieces and later selling them at auction for profit. Most honorable auctioneers will certainly agree. Timepieces are "emotional investments" whose values can fluctuate wildly and on a whim. If you are the type of person who is very good at understanding the mentality behind purchase decisions, and feel like you want to take a stab at manipulating a market then you might have what it takes to be amongst the few people in the world who make money by buying and selling timepieces at auction. Everyone else should be aware that timepieces make excellent collectibles and are wonderful to learn about and own, but consider them a luxury expense and not an investment vehicle. This is important to think about, because some watch companies, retailers, or auction houses like to suggest the notion of items increasing in value over time, and that purchasing certain timepieces is a "good investment." Watches make as good of an investment as cars do. Most lose a lot of value after being purchased new and have an expected level of depreciation each year. If you are lucky enough to have a car (or watch) that will vastly increase in value and wasn't extremely expensive to begin with, it will most likely only do so long after you have passed away. Spencer Platt / Getty Images The fact that a timepiece was owned by a celebrity or important person is, not surprisingly, linked to higher auction values. In my book, The World's Most Expensive Watches I discussed a Longines wrist watch owned by Albert Einstein that went for several hundred thousand dollars at auction, while the same timepiece without its celebrity provenance would have been worth dramatically less. Therefore, the story of who owned a timepiece is, in many instances, worth a lot more than the watch itself. Knowing this, watch auction houses often attempt to bolster the importance of a watch or other object by trying to connect it with an important person, place, or event. The problem is that in some instances, they are simply wrong. Claims about a watch's ownership or provenance are supported by various types of documentation such as receipts, letters, pictures, and more. A close examination of the evidence about a timepiece's proclaimed ownership is really important in getting the full story, because in the worst instances, the auction house is flat out lying. The most successful auction houses in the world such as Christie's and Sotheby's put out beautiful catalogs with lavish pictures and descriptions of the items they intend to sell. These companies, and others like them are masters of presentation. Watch auctions themselves are often semi-formalized events with their share of VIPs and media. Watch auction houses also dedicate a lot of media to promoting and advertising their sales. This is all sound business and something that legitimately helps inform interested people in their upcoming auction events. This glamour, however, is part of the sales technique, and is designed to make people feel excited about participating, as well as about the results of an auction. Watch auction houses also often work with various charities and other organizations to do benefit events and help raise money for philanthropic causes. In this sense, watch auction houses are about entertaining a particular wealthy demographic with sales events, as much as they are about offering collectors a venue to own rare and desirable goods. REUTERS/Denis Balibouse The majority of watch auction events include dozens if not hundreds of lots for sale. However, when many people read about a watch auction, there are only a few "auction highlights" that are promoted. These are the "superstar" lots that mostly include interesting or desirable vintage watches which have a known likelihood of achieving high values at auction. Sometimes, would-be bidders mistakenly believe that these highlighted watches represent the majority of the lots in an auction. That isn't true. In fact, if there is just one take away message from this entire article, it is that modern watch auction events are mostly sustained by the sale of much newer pre-owned or unsold retail stock timepieces. These are where the best values are for consumers, and what keep many of the auction houses going - not a steady stream of exotic rare timepieces or vintage favorites. There are a few reasons that eBay.com became so popular. Among them are the fact that eBay makes it very cheap (and easy) to host an auction, and because people can bid on their own time using an automated system. Outside of eBay and its competitors is the traditional world of auction houses' fees and premiums - which vary from company to company. The basic idea is that when an auction house puts up something and it sells, they collect a fee from both the buyer and the seller. These fees are not unsubstantial. Sellers go into the process knowing that perhaps 10-20% of the final bid value will be taken by the auction house as a fee. There are a lot of good reasons for this, and the decision to sell something using an auction house is usually based on the notion that despite the fees, the auction house helped them get more money than by doing it themselves. However, most auction houses also collect buyer's fees (known as a "buyer's premium") - and these can be more tricky to comprehend. Auction houses frequently charge higher buyer's premiums than they do seller's fees. These fees and premiums are most always a percentage of the total value that tends to exist on a complex sliding scale. So while auction houses earn 10-20% of the total amount given to a a buyer during a successful sale, they often charge 10% to sometimes over 30% as a buyer's premium over the final hammer price. That premium is calculated after the final bid, and is not part of what the seller receives. You can therefore understand why auction houses are so excited to not only have sellers commission items with them, but to also have buyers engage in bidding wars. As someone who may potentially bid in a watch auction, you should be extremely familiar with how buyer's premiums are calculated and know that they will be in addition to the final hammer price. Depending on the situation, a watch brand may either explicitly or secretively bid and win one of their own watches. In the most ethical instances, a watch brand openly bids on a watch from their own history. The watch company Breguet, for example, often attempts to purchase historic timepieces and clocks produced by the brand's namesake and his family. Many of these timepieces are over 200 years old. Breguet, and others like it are trying to "reclaim" their history for historical preservation and study, as well as to show them off in various exhibits. Of course, these brands don't always have as deep pockets as some of the competitive bidders. Less ethical situations involve instances where watch brands secretively bid (via a proxy bidder) on their own timepieces in order to manipulate the auction or the market for their products overall. This situation can be just about engaging in a bidding war so that a particular items goes for a higher amount, or it could be part of a more concerted effort, in an attempt to show that their timepieces are more desirable and/or more valuable. This practice does happen from time to time, and can be very difficult to detect. It is also rather effective, because of the anonymous nature of some bidding, and because even buying your own watches for a large sum of money is enough to offer material to show the market how valuable your brand might be.REUTERS/Shannon Stapleton Patek Philippe and Rolex are perhaps the most successful names when it comes to watch brands that perform well at auction. Among the two, Patek Philippe has a lot more "million dollar watches" it can claim, based on its history of producing complicated exclusive timepieces. Even traditionally, Rolex was in the market of producing a lot of watches. Rolex's most valuable timepieces at auction are prototypes, limited production models, and other low production pieces. There are a healthy number of watches throughout recent history that have achieved winning bids for more than $1,000,000, but they are rare. Often times, they are actually the same watches that circulate from auction to auction exchanging hands among elite collectors. The majority of Rolex and Patek Philippe timepieces at auction are far more reasonably priced, and only a handful are those that are able to surprise people with intensely high prices. Those latter models are what tend to be the lots that beat auction estimate values. Most auction lots fall within the conservative estimate values or come in below. So, not only are watches that can achieve million dollar prices rare, but most watch auction lots yield extremely predictable prices or come in under estimate. In an ideal world, the pure economics of "supply and demand" would rule the auction market for all things, including rare, collectible, or merely unsold timepieces. That isn't always the case when it comes to watch auctions, because too many buyers are unfamiliar with actual demand. Auction houses are, of course, in it to maximize profit, so in their eyes, everything they put up for auction is "rare, amazing, fine, important, collectible, etc..." That isn't always true, and when it comes to niche items like timepieces, the auction houses have actually managed to create markets and values where, in many instances, there was none before. Of course, sometimes watch auction houses are merely influenced by trends set by smaller groups of collectors who happen to be keen on particular products. This latter notion is important because collectors are often highly emotionally driven when it comes to what they purchase. Just a few collectors hot on particular products can completely alter the market because some of those items are very rare and collectors' purchasing habits are closely monitored. What that means is that the value of certain timepieces can go up several hundred percent for short durations of time, and such an increase in value has nothing to do with their actual inherent or comparable value, but rather because some collectors have a temporary interest in something. So, the moral of the story is that a combination of niche collector activity as well as zealousness from watch auction houses can result in inflated pricing that does not always relate to larger market demand, but rather what entities with a vested interest feel that market demand should be. In short, the best watch auction houses are experts in collector psychology as much as they are auctioning off goods. The best auctioneers aren't just people who can speak very quickly, but who are excellent sales people. Collectible items are all about connecting a physical item with a story and hopefully creating an emotional bond with a potential buyer that makes them feel like, "I have to have that!" When it comes to timepieces, the "story" is no different. Facts are blended with a sense of literary story telling that sometimes can exaggerate how important something is. A good example is the place a wrist watch had in the life of an important person or celebrity. A watch that was merely owned by a celebrity (perhaps rarely worn or a mere gift) can sometimes be described as having a pivotal role in their life during key moments in their career. Literary license surely can obfuscate important facts about the nature of such items. Technically speaking, it is fraud for an auction house to provide incorrect facts or lie to potential buyers, but there are many instances where the factual evidence is sporadic at best, and certain details are up for "interpretation." It is, therefore, important for buyers to understand that auction houses want to make their auction lots sound as exciting as possible and will take every possible opportunity to stretch the facts and come to conclusions that simply aren't supported by the evidence. Sometimes, they may even make bold proclamations about watches, such as who owned them or how important they were, with extremely fragmented or tangential evidence. In many instances, the consumer must, once again, apply the notion of "buyer beware" when buying a story versus an item that comes with extremely persuasive physical evidence. REUTERS/Keith Bedford I mentioned above that in some instances, buyers make bids anonymously. This is often done via a proxy bidder who is taking orders on behalf of a anonymous client while at the auction itself. Auction houses do not require that the identity of a bidder be made public. In fact, many of the most prestigious auction houses pride themselves on keeping their clients confidential. There is good reason for this. If you are a noteworthy person or someone who has decided to purchase something very expensive, you don't always want the world to know. Auction bidding might be one of the "safest" ways to buy luxury and exclusive items such as priceless art, without the world knowing what you now own. So in some important ways, anonymous bidding serves a very useful purpose for some buyers. As I mentioned, though, anonymous bidding can be a double-edged sword. While it has benefits, it can also have a deleterious effect on understanding how a final bidding price effects the market for a particular brand or item. Take, for example, a situation where two anonymous proxy bidders are actually the same person, and that person represents a watch brand keen on trying to protect or promote the value of its products. Less maligned are simply those situations where the nature of a buyer is important in helping other buyers know who they are competing against. Buyers could be individuals, museums, companies, governments, etc... While anonymous bidding has a very clear value, the potential for abuse or simple market confusion in the value of a item exists and is sometimes taken advantage of. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jonathan ErnstFormer White House press secretary Jay Carney (R). At first, it looked like an awful call as Russian stock prices surged into the summer. But as Jesse Livermore notes, now it looks smart. Here's Carney's March 18 call on Russian stocks, via the White House: Q:  The Russian stock market is soaring the last couple days. Is this a sign that the sanctions that we’ve taken are ineffective if they’re not really paying a cost? In reality, it’s up about 8, 9% in the last couple days, their main stock exchange. MR. CARNEY: I think it’s down for the year and I think the ruble has lost value. And I think that the long-term effect of actions taken by the Russian government ... will have an impact on their economy all by themselves. They will also incur costs because of the sanctions that we and the EU have imposed, and there will be more actions taken under the authorities that exist with the two executive orders that the president has signed. So I wouldn’t, if I were you, invest in Russian equities right now — unless you’re going short. Carney made this "call" just after the US had announced another round of sanctions against Russia. It was oddly specific investing advice for a member of the White House, and in June, we noted that to that point, Carney had essentially unwittingly called the bottom in the Russian stock market. In other words, the "Carney trade" of going short Russian stocks in March was a disaster.  But now, another six months later, guess what? It's in the money! Since Carney's March 18 call, the RSX ETF that tracks the Russian stock market is down more than 18%. At the time of our June post, the RSX was up about 11% from Carney's short call. Over the last several months, as the price of oil has collapsed and the value of the Russian ruble has tumbled, the economic situation in Russia has grown pretty bleak.  And Russian stocks have followed suit.  And now Jay Carney looks smart.  Yahoo Finance    FREE AppDownload
servantofchaos/flickrThis is a brutal week for those Wall Streeters who are cramming for the Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA). On Saturday, they'll be taking the Level I exam of the CFA. The CFA curriculum, which consists of three levels, is considered to be the hardest test on Wall Street. To put it in perspective, fewer than 20% of candidates pass all three on the first try. The average test-taker also spends a solid five to six months preparing for the CFA. Of course, every test-taker hopes things go smoothly and according to plan on exam day. But we've heard some crazy horror stories ranging from bathroom disasters to concentration-breaking distractions. We've included them here.  Make sure this doesn't happen to you.  Also, if you have a CFA horror story to share, feel free to email jlaroche@businessinsider.com. We'll keep you anonymous.  FREE AppDownload
It's such a pain dragging yourself to the gym in 20-degree weather. And it's even worse after your workout when you have to get back out into the cold, completely drenched in sweat, to make your way home. Let's forget all that. Instead, make your life easier and create a minimalist home gym right in your house. Insider Picks has put together the essentials that you'll need — without sacrificing the intensity of a regular gym. AmazonPerfect Fitness Ab Carver Pro Regular sit-ups and push-ups are fine, but if you want to turn your home into a mini gym, we recommend stacking up with some of these tools. The 'Ab Carver Pro' will work your abs and arms better than regular sit-ups because you'll have to work on balancing as well. Perfect Fitness Ab Carver Pro | Amazon You can amp up ab workouts by doing them on stability balls. And bonus points: it doubles as a chair that will help with your posture. 2000lbs Anti-Burst Exercise Stability Ball | Amazon Tone Fitness Stability Ball | Amazon Amazon2000lbs Anti Burst Exercise Stability BallStanding on a fitness cushion disc will help work your balance and stability. Make sure to stand on it with slightly bent knees. Waccess 13" Athletic Inflatable Balance Stability Fitness Cushion Disc | Amazon Similar to fitness cushion disc, but these are thick and not-inflatable. Just trying doing squats on them. (Be careful not to roll your ankle.) Black High Density Foam Rollers (36-inch) | Amazon Black High Density Foam Rollers (6 x 12 inch) | Amazon AmazonProSource Solid Cast Iron Kettle Bell Weights Kettle bells were trendy at first, but they've quickly become a workout staple. They're a must-have because they combine cardio and strength training. Just think, you won't have to die of boredom getting your cardio work out done on treadmill at the gym. ProSource Solid Cast Iron Kettle Bell Weights | Amazon Aside from Kettle Bells, it's good to have your average dumb bells on hand. If you're looking to tone, get a lighter weight and do more reps with them. If you're looking to build muscles, get a heavier weight and do less reps with them. Yes4All Rubber Coated Hex Dumbbells | Amazon SPRI Deluxe Rubber Dumbbells | Amazon Gold's Gym 40 Pound LB Vinyl Cement Dumbbell Weight Set | Amazon AmazonValeo Stretch Bands Stretching is important — especially because it prevents injuries. Get yourself some stretch bands to help stretch out the tighter parts. It's a good idea to have various levels of stretchiness (more stretchy for where you're less flexible, and vice versa). Valeo Stretch Bands | Amazon Aylio 3 Flat Stretch Bands | Amazon AmazonPerfect Fitness Weight Vest, 20-Pound If you think your basic push-ups, lunges and squats are easy — these things are for you. A fitness vest adds an extra however-many-you-want pounds to your core, which will add intensity to everything you do. We recommend going for the 20-pound if you've never used one before. Perfect Fitness Vest, 20-pounds | Amazon Perfect Fitness Weight Vest, 40-pounds | Amazon Similar to the vest, except — naturally — for the ankles. Wear them while doing lunges, leg lifts, or V-sit ups for extra resistance. All Pro Weight Adjustable Ankle Weights 10-lb pair | Amazon Gold's Gym Adjustable Ankle Weights | Amazon Fitness bands (also called resistance bands) are a great way to strengthen isolated muscle groups — which is something that can't be done with weight machines. Bonus: they're light and easy to take with you on business trips, so you can even work out with them in your hotel room. AmazonSPRI Xertube Resistance Band Exercise CordsSPRI Xertube Resistance Band Exercise Cords | Amazon Perfect Fitness Bands (Extreme) 50-Pounds | Amazon Weighted gloves aren't too heavy, so you could easily wear them during your entire work out to add a touch of resistance to any movement you do. They'll act sort of like mini-weights, and help tone your arms. Title Boxing Strong Hands Weighted Gloves | Amazon AmazonValeo Ropes Jumping rope is an extremely underrated exercise — it's not easy, and it's great for your heart. Plus, just like the resistance bands, jump ropes are extremely portable. Master of Muscle Jump Rope | Amazon Valeo Deluxe Speed Rope | Amazon AmazonHemingWeigh Extra Thick Foam Exercise Mat Many exercises are done on the floor — but no one wants to end a workout with bruises all over their elbows, knees and tailbone. Getting an exercise mat is a great way to protect your body. HemingWeigh Extra Thick Foam Exercise Mat | Amazon SPRI Exercise Mat | Amazon Yoga has officially gone mainstream, and if you want to keep up your practice at home, you're going to need your own mat. (Plus, if you go to a yoga studio as well, just bring your own mat instead of pre-used one. Gross.) Prosource Premium Yoga Mat | Amazon Sivan Health and Fitness NBR Yoga Mat | Amazon AmazonPerfect Fitness Scale Pro There's one sure-fire way to see how much (or how little) progress you've made. Invest in a scale — numbers don't lie. Perfect Fitness Scale | Amazon TG Mens Remedy Digital Scale | Amazon The cooling towel is a life saver. Not only does it keep you dry, but the cooling effect will keep you from overheating during workouts. Plus, it's made of evaporative material. Perfect cooling towel | Amazon Disclosure: This post is brought to you by Business Insider's Insider Picks team. We aim to highlight products and services you might find interesting, and if you buy them, we may get a small share of the revenue from the sale. This is not an advertiser sponsored post and we operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback.Have something you think we should know about? Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com. FREE AppDownload
 Black Friday sales plummeted this year, leaving retailers completely stumped.  After weeks of declining gas prices, many analysts predicted the biggest holiday season ever. Industry groups like the National Retail Federation reasoned that Americans would use their fuel savings on gifts.  Despite encouraging forecasts, Black Friday weekend sales were down 11%. Cyber Monday sales rose 8%, falling short of many predictions. So where are the customers?   They're probably broke, according to some analysts and executives.  Brad Anderson, former CEO of Best Buy, told CNBC that customers were "still feeling constrained," which could lead to a lackluster holiday season.  Macy's CFO Karen Hoguet told analysts that consumers had priorities other than clothing and housewares.  "Shoppers are spending more of their disposable dollars on categories we don’t sell, like cars, healthcare, electronics, and home improvement," Hoguet said in a call with investors. The stores that did remarkably well on Black Friday, like Family Dollar and Kohl's, are all deep discounters, according to a recent Deutsche Bank report.  The success of discount retailers shows that Americans are more concerned about spending money than ever.  Wal-Mart, however, provided few details about results from the weekend, a possible sign of bad news, the Deutsche Bank analysts wrote. Many Americans are watching their spending despite lower gas prices, writes Lindsey Piegza, chief economist at Sterne Agee.  "Consumers are increasingly familiar with energy price reprieve from summer gas prices and no longer adjust their long-term spending habits as much, or at all, based on short-term price fluctuations," Piegza writes.  And while gas prices are lower, the benefit is offset by higher housing and utility costs, according to Piegza.  Health insurance premiums have increased between 39% and 56% since early 2013, meaning additional costs of $230 per month for the average family.  The lackluster job market is also contributing to poor holiday sales, Piegza writes.  "With uncertainty lingering and patience wearing thin after five-plus years of still lackluster wage growth, consumers are increasing saving for the future, hedging against a continuation of 'more of the same,'"Piegza said. "Thus, for many, extra savings at the pump as a result of lower gas prices are simply being stored away to help supplement spending needs in the future, ramping up savings, not spending."   FREE AppDownload
 The Reserve Bank of India opted today not to change interest rates, keeping the repo rate (the rate at which the RBI lends money to commercial banks) at 8% and the reverse repo rate at 7%. But two things suggest that monetary policy changes are soon to come. First, inflation has dropped much lower than expected. Food and fuel inflation have fallen, and with them, consumer prices — down to 5.5% in October, beating the central bank's January 2016 target. In a statement Tuesday, the bank's governor, Raghuram Rajan, hinted at a change in monetary policy "if the current inflation momentum and changes in inflationary expectations continue." The other factor is GDP growth, which has been slack, and is expected to remain so. Data released last week showed last quarter's growth weakened to 5.3% year over year, down from 5.7% in the previous quarter. And Rajan's statement said that growth, going forward, would likely remain "muted." Pressure is building on the governor, who has spent the past 15 months aggressively fighting inflation, to loosen rates soon. Finance Minister Arun Jaitley met with him on Monday to plead for rate cuts, which would help support growth. Capital Economics Unlike the central banks of other emerging markets, the Reserve Bank of India under Rajan has the credibility to cut rates without appearing soft on inflation. Spiro Sovereign Strategy, a consultancy, referred to this as the "Rajan Factor" and contrasted it with Turkey's central bank, which began cutting rates earlier this year in the midst of a surge of inflation. Meanwhile, three other BRICS nations — Brazil, Russia, and South Africa — are all looking to raise interest rates next year, despite potentially recessionary conditions. So compared to his peers, Rajan is looking pretty good. Depending on consumer price, wholesale price, and industrial production data due out later this month, he could begin loosening his tight monetary stance early next year. The next RBI meeting is in February.    FREE AppDownload
This amazing drone footage shot by cinematographer John Marton shows abandoned Detroit locations including the Packard Automotive Plant, the Eastown Theatre, and the Fisher Body Plant. Produced by Devan Joseph. Video courtesy of John Marton.Follow BI Video: On Facebook
flickr/eziomanWhen OPEC decided not to cut production last week, the move was widely seen as Saudi Arabia declaring war on American shale producers. But there's likely to be a lot of collateral damage. Venezuela is going to get slammed by dropping prices. Libya was getting killed even when prices were over $100 a barrel. Now, RBC Capital Markets's Helima Croft is warning that Nigeria might actually be the country most at risk for civil unrest related to oil price declines. "In a country plagued by deep regional and religious divisions, oil revenue is literally the glue that binds the fractious elites together," Croft writes. There are two major sources of violence in Nigeria: In the north, Boko Haram and Ansaru (influenced by ISIS of late). In the south, there are the Christian militias, which reached a tentative peace agreement with the government a few years ago. That agreement expires next year. Emad MostaqueFurther, writes strategist Emad Mostaque in a note, "Nigeria has been meaningfully below its faceplate production capacity for a number of years. The primary reasons for this are local instability (particularly in 2008 with MEND), decaying infrastructure and graft."  In a separate email to Business Insider, Mostaque noted that "Nigeria is a... porous country with billions going missing each month between NNPC [Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation] invoices and receipts alone..." The country's budget is based on an oil price of $77 per barrel. Any revenue above that goes into the excess crude account (ECA). The money in that account is depleting rapidly: an allAfrica post from earlier this year said there was $2.1 billion in it in February, down from $11 billion in December 2012. Oil has been far above $77 a barrel during that period. A more recent post from this month puts the total in the coffer at $4.1 billion. RBC Capital MarketsPublic violence has been increasing in the last year in the country, and the threat for more civil unrest as the February 2015 national elections approach is high. Sectarian tensions between Christians and Muslims are running high.  Low oil prices will only make the situation worse. According to RBC's Croft, "elites have also turned to crude theft as a way to help finance elections ... with less oil money around to grease the election machinery, crude theft and production outages could easily exceed levels seen in prior polls."   FREE AppDownload
Daniel WellingtonIt's never easy to pick out gifts for the women in your life. Something you think they will absolutely love might turn out to be a terrible idea. We asked the women of Business Insider what they REALLY want for the holidays and found the perfect places to find those gifts. So if you have to buy a gift for a special lady in your life, pay attention and take our advice.   FREE AppDownload
Sallie Krawcheck was recently named one of the "100 most creative people" by Fast Company. She's a former analyst and senior banking executive who now oversees the Ellevate network -- formerly 85 Broads. Ellevate is a 34,000-strong global professional woman’s network. Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis Follow BI Video: On Twitter 
Reuters Although emigration trended downward from 1997 to 2011, there was a sudden spike in people leaving the country around the third term of President Vladimir Putin, according to Rosstat, Russia's federal state statistics service. In 2012, almost 123,000 people left, and in 2013, more than 186,000 got out. Additionally, a UN report showed that 40,000 Russians applied for asylum in 2013 — 76% more than in 2012. The biggest bombshell of all is that since April 2014 — a month after Russia annexed Crimea — 203,659 Russians have left the country.  By comparison, approximately 37,000 people left the country in 2011, and less than 34,000 people left in 2010. Furthermore, the emigration numbers may be even higher. "The official statistics are very low," Mikhail Gorshkov, the director of the Russian Academy of Sciences' Institute of Sociology told Reuters. Elena Holodny/Business Insider "While the total number of Russians who leave for good remains relatively small, the profile of the typical emigrant has changed. When the Soviet Union dissolved, the most common emigrant was a poor, unskilled young man. Today, it is a well-off professional," according to World Policy. "People who have it good are starting to leave," Anton Nosski, a tech entrepreneur, told World Policy. Notable individuals who have left include chess grandmaster Garry Kasparov, economist Sergei Guriyev, journalist Leonid Bershidsky, and the founder of VKontakte (Russia's version of Facebook) Pavel Durov.  For the most part, these people are leaving either for their children or for their professional futures. "Corruption, red tape, and allegedly crooked courts are [also] driving the exodus among entrepreneurs," according to Reuters. "I want my children to grow up in a fairer country, one where the rule of law is more or less observed. I used think it was possible to build a better society in Russia, but I've basically lost all hope now. It's time to leave," one Russian businessman told Vocativ. "Russian venture capital funds want to invest their money only in Russia," start-up founder Artem Kulizhnikov told Bloomberg news, "but we want to build an international business and they won't support us." Additionally, Russia's "creative class" is starting to feel isolated, although some politicians seem unfazed. "Russia won't lose anything if the entire so-called creative class leaves. What's the creative class anyway? For me, a woman who gets up at 5 a.m. to milk a cow is creative because she produces something. Not some guy with a stupid haircut who sits in a cafe all day long writing in his blog," said Vitaly Milonov, a Member of the Legislative Assembly of Saint Petersburg. But the brain drain isn't the whole story. A huge influx of immigrants are entering Russia as well. Elena Holodny/Business Insider This makes sense: If many high-level individuals and intellectuals are leaving Russia, more high-end jobs and opportunities will become available in Russia. According to the UN, Russia saw the second-largest number of international migrants in 2013. The number of people moving into Russia actually tops the number of people moving out (which you can see above.) Many of the immigrants come from countries like Azerbaijan, Uzbekistan, Ukraine, according to data from Rosstat. Additionally, millennials who are culturally Russian but were born in the US or Europe are considering opportunities in Russia. "There are opportunities for my children in Moscow that aren't found anywhere else," one parent told BI. "I believe that Russia is at a point where they realize they cannot rely on just oil and gas to keep up with the other BRIC countries and Western economies. Russia is looking to diversify its economy," one 20-something told BI. "The opportunities in Russia seem to be more promising than here in the States currently. Before the current sanctions and drastic low oil prices, Russia was a top seven economic power. As a young Russian-American, I've thought about pursuing opportunities abroad that do not exist in the US." The bottom line: Russia is seeing some dramatic demographic changes that could greatly influence its economic and political future.   FREE AppDownload
Columbia.eduJames Montier. This paper comes from a presentation that Montier gave at the CFA Institute earlier this year. "When it comes to bad ideas, finance certainly offers up an embarrassment of riches," Montier writes, though perhaps none of these is as bad as the idea that executives ought to strive, first and foremost, at shareholder value maximization. Montier’s paper takes its title from a quote given to the Financial Times by Jack Welch, the former CEO of General Electric, who told the FT in 2009 that, "On the face of it, shareholder value is the dumbest idea in the world … Shareholder value is a result, not a strategy … your main constituencies are your employees, your customers and your products." And it's Welch's sentiment that what you achieve is shareholder value, not what you aspire to, that Montier believes become inverted in modern corporate management. The target Montier zeroes in on is IBM. Montier writes that in its early days as a company, "IBM's mission statement was outlined by Tony Watson (the son of the founder) and was based on three principles (in descending order of importance): 1) respect for individual employees; 2) a commitment to customer service; and 3) achieving excellence." GMO But by the early '90s, IBM's returns had been flat since the '70s, and the message changed.  "Lou Gerstner arrived as [IBM] CEO and stated, 'Our primary measures of success are customer satisfaction and shareholder value,'" Montier writes. Montier highlights the following chart, which shows commentary from IBM CEOs overlayed with the company’s stock price.  Hedge fund manager Stanley Druckenmiller has also been critical of IBM's corporate behavior, calling the company the "poster child" for what’s wrong with corporate behavior, noting that the company’s sales have been flat for the last six years, though earnings have still been increasing.  And through this chart, Montier argues that it is the change in philosophy that accompanied the increase in IBM's share price; it was making shareholder returns the goal, not the outcome, that goosed IBM's stock. The idea that Montier is advancing, however, is not something that is strictly new. Naked Capitalism has written on the subject in the past, and a 2013 article from The Washington Post also explored the change in IBM that saw the company’s stock price rise during the '90s while it undertook massive layoffs.  But away from IBM, another shift in corporate incentives that Montier focuses on is how executives are compensated. GMO And this shift has, in Montier’s view, created executive incentives that are misaligned with running productive businesses. Montier traces the origins of this shift in compensation to work from Michael Jensen and William Meckling — whose work Montier argues follows from that of Milton Friedman ("It is quite staggering just how many bad ideas in economics appear to stem from Milton Friedman," Montier writes) — which argued that effective corporate governance needed to be aligned with shareholder values, which they assumed was a desire to maximize profits.  And so the theory followed that if executives were paid like shareholders — that is, were compensated with stock not cash — then it would follow that their actions to maximize returns would benefit themselves, the shareholders, and by extension the company as a whole.  But Montier believes this has failed. In 1981, the Business Roundtable, an association of US CEOs, said that, "Corporations have a responsibility, first of all, to make available to the public quality goods and services at fair prices, thereby earning a profit that attracts investment ... provide jobs, and build the economy." GMO But by 1997, that message had shifted to "The principal objective of a business ... is to generate economic returns to its owners ... if the CEO and the directors are not focused on shareholder value, it may be less likely the corporation will realize that value." And with this shift, the idea that running a business was a pursuit in maximizing returns for shareholders became conventional wisdom.  What followed were stock returns but not improvement in the underlying performance of companies.  Montier concludes his analysis with lessons for shareholders, companies, and everybody else:      FREE AppDownload
AP PhotoSaudi Arabia's most eccentric prince, Alwaleed Bin Talal, already owns one quarter of New York City's Plaza Hotel. Now, he's looking to snatch up the rest of it, The Express reported. Right now Subrata Roy, an Indian mogul and founder of the Sahara conglomerate, owns three quarters of the Fifth Avenue hotel, but he's gone to jail for skipping a hearing in an investor fraud case. He's selling his stake in The Plaza to make bail, the report said. Enter Alwaleed, the Saudi prince known for his peculiar investments, like the $220 million Boeing 747 he owns, or the Airbus 380 he bought, refurbished, and then sold at a loss. He also owns The Savoy Hotel in London. Alwaleed's net worth is a bit of a question mark - last year he cut ties with Forbes magazine after a dispute over the number (he said $29.6 billion; they said $20 billion). He's now suing the magazine for defamation. According to The Express, Alwaleed's sights are now set firmly on The Plaza - and nothing else. "Sahara has other hotels that are in the group but we don't care about those. Zero interest," The Express reported him as saying. FREE AppDownload
The abrupt decline of the oil price has reached levels below the marginal cost of production in most OPEC countries, as well as the US. Over time, low oil prices, if sustained, will slow down the expansion of the US oil sector. There is an intertemporal relationship between these two developments. The oil price goes down now. The impact of a slowing growth rate in the sector occurs in the future. The lags can be months or even years. In the meantime, the lower oil price has immediate effects on inflation. Oil is pervasive as a commodity, and the fall in price is global; so the rate of inflation around the world attributable to energy cost is falling. Inflation was already low and decreasing. In some places, lower oil prices will take the inflation rate down by meaningful amounts. In Europe, lower prices will increase the struggle that Europeans have with a zero inflation threshold.   In Japan, low prices will act in a similar but more stimulative way. Michael Drury is the chief economist at McVean Trading and also the incoming chair of the Global Interdependence Center. On November 28 he wrote:  In Japan, which imports energy (all at prices based on crude oil) worth roughly 6% of GDP, the recent sharp price drop could lift real GDP growth by 1.5%–2%! This would largely offset the 3% hike in VAT imposed last year – or justify the second round 2% hike that was just cancelled. The drop in oil prices may save Abe short term, but it will also put at risk both the 3% inflation goal and the need to turn nuclear facilities back on. In the US the pressure for a rising price level is diminishing every day. The demands for rising labor compensation are also easing since many working households are experiencing an increase in their real income because of a fall in gasoline and related energy prices. Lower energy costs act like a tax cut on American households, and they are getting a big one. These trends lead to central bank policy-related questions. How can central banks raise interest rates when inflation is ebbing and the most pervasive commodity (oil) is falling in price? How does the Federal Reserve segue to a policy of tightening and raising interest rates when the most substantial growth sector in the US (Energy) is retrenching due to a falling price? As the Fed moves from neutral, post-tapering, to tightening slowly, will the falling energy price cause them to repeat the error of the 1937 Fed hike during the Great Depression? Because of falling inflation from lower energy prices, we expect the Fed to respond to these developments over time by extending and slowing the rate at which they achieve some normalization of policy. We expect a lower interest-rate environment for a longer period of time. This applies to high-grade bonds, notes, and instruments tied to them. The high-yield bond sector is now bifurcated. Energy-related high-yield debt may come under increasing pressure since it is supported by the energy price level. Non-energy-related high-yield debt may strengthen due to some cost relief for the businesses that benefit from the fall in energy pricing. The rest of the world faces similar issues. Outside the US, it is responding by easing. The Bank of Japan, European Central Bank, People’s Bank of China, Swiss National Bank, and other central bank policy makers are all moving towards lower interest rates for a longer time. A number of them are seeking ways to expand quantitative easing. Japan has done so in a most dramatic way. The European Central Bank is still struggling with how to do so. The trend around the world in central banking is lower, longer, near zero, with an extended future of short-term and intermediate interest rates at extraordinarily low levels. It is possible that some of the globe’s interest rates will be near zero or very low for the rest of the decade. The implications for investors and financial markets are remarkable. This article originally appeared at Cumberland Advisors.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
If the flock of smart tarts speaking Russian into their smartphones along King and New Bond Streets in London last week were a sign, nothing much has changed in the Russian art market. Christie’s and Sotheby’s, the art auctioneers, would be the last people to say if or when the bottom has fallen out of an art market. But the results of the major Russian art auctions in London in the last week of November indicate the top of the market has fallen in. Non-Russians (mostly Europeans) continue to dominate the sellers, while Russians remain the big majority of buyers. But this time the former overstepped the price which the latter will agree to pay. Wishful European expectation for price has met sober Russian asset stocktaking. This in turn means that Russian art buyers are no longer anticipating the rapid growth of value in Russian art assets recorded in the summer auctions. Frances Asquith, head of Russian art at Sotheby’s, admits that 30% of the paintings offered at the November 24 auction was sold; just 50% at all three of the Sotheby’s auctions in which Russian art, paintings, jewellery and other objects were on offer through November 25. “Though the Russian auction results were uneven across London last week, the salerooms were packed and with over 50% sold by lot and value, Sotheby’s sales of Russian Pictures were the most robust overall. With 18 pictures selling for over £100,000 at Sotheby’s, there is clearly still depth in the market.” Sotheby’s proceeds totaled £9.7 million. Boris Kustodiev’s Bakhchisarai (below, left), sold at £1.3 million, at the low end of the pre-sale target; and Zinaida Serebriakova’s Reclining Nude fetched £698,500, also at the low end. Together, they amounted to 40% of the auction total. johnhelmer.net Christie’s declared a record for takings in the Russian category after its November 24 sale. Sarah Mansfield, head of the Russian art department at Christie’s, emphasized the firmness of Russian buyer demand, if not confidence in price. “The success of the sale shows that Russian art is still in a high demand and that Russian buying activity is at an even higher level than last November, when the auction totaled £16.5 million.” A London observer cautioned: “there were two great works which were over half their sale, especially the Serov. Two big lumps distort the statistics.” Christie’s reports a total take of £20.2 million. Valentin Serov’s Portrait of Maria Zetlin (below left) sold for £9.2 million, and Portrait of Aleksandr Tikhonov by Yuri Annenkov (right) sold for £4 million. Their pre-sale estimates were £2.5 million and £4.5 million, respectively. The Serov was sold from an Israeli collection; the Annenkov from “an important European collector”. The Annenkov has been traded three times in the past 30 years. Along with four works by Boris Grigoriev, which fetched £564,750, the top priced works amounted to 68% of Christie’s aggregate. johnhelmer.net The small print in the Christie’s announcement reveals that of 421 lots offered, 240 were sold – 57%. Bonhams has set a record sale price for a single work of Russian art, when Nikolai Roerich’s, Madonna Laboris, went for £7.9 million. But that was in June 2013, and it has been bested by the Serov at Christie’s last week. Bonham’s November 26 auction of Russian art drew much lower price offers. The top sale was Alexander Yakovlev’s Loge de Theatre a Pekin (below), for £302,500. Of 180 lots Bonham managed to clear 77, or 43%. johnhelmer.net Until last week’s auctions, this is how the top-10 sale record stood for Russian works of art: www.russianartandculture.com According to William MacDougall, whose gallery in Moscow and London specializes in Russian art, “a lot of Russians have money, and were in the auction room, but they were being cautious.” MacDougall’s best – priced sale was Roerich’s And We Continue Fishing (below left) for £1.2 million, but The Doomed City (right) by Roerich failed to find a buyer at the £1.2 million reserve. Demand for Roerich has been a bellwether of Russian market demand in the past.  johnhelmer.net “Last June saw one of the strongest Russian Weeks ever,” MacDougall said. “In spite of the well known political and economic difficulties, specialist Russian sales were exceptionally vibrant, and the strongest since the 2008 financial crisis. Wealthy Russians still have money, and have to spend it or invest it somewhere, with art being an clear choice.” This time round MacDougall’s total proceeds came to £7.8 million. Thirty-four percent of the lots on offer were sold. Although prices appear to be peaking, there is no evidence from last week’s sales that Russian sellers are being forced into selling their art collections in order to meet bank margin calls on the loans which have financed their assets. MacDougall says he has not observed a change in the ratio of non-Russians to Russians among the sellers, and no forced selling, at least among Russians. “There was a higher proportion of non-Russians among the sellers, especially Germans, though they might have been buying for Russians. Uncertainty stopped them, not prices. Many came intending to buy but held back at the last minute.” “People are often forced sellers of equities and bonds due to margin calls,” MacDougall adds, “but much less so with paintings, which are usually bought with free cash, not with borrowed money. In fact, we have not come across any forced sellers recently. If anything, we have the opposite problem — of sellers being too greedy, and estimates consequently being set too high; remember that the reserve price must be no higher than the low estimate.” An analysis of the Russian art market by Simon Hewitt, released last week, calculates that over the past seven years, the average selling rate for Russian art has been 53%. While the latest results are clearly worse than average, they are not as bad in Hewitt’s calculation as the period after the onset of the Autumn 2008 recession. johnhelmer.net In November, Tatiana Markina, the art correspondent for The Art Newspaper of Moscow and Kommersant, reported a “sour mood” from the London salerooms as agents for Russian buyers expressed frustration at the asking prices, and uncertainty at what the resale trade will bear when they get home. “The first signs of instability in the Russian market,” observes Makarina, “were visible even in the summer London auctions. In October, the Russian Antoque Salon was small. The sellers of Russian art are accustomed to high prices for Russian art and don’t want to cut them.” According to Markina, a “promising trend” in market demand for Socialist Realism in Russian painting faded a little in last week’s auctions, “but it’s not dead.” MacDougall believes “there was stronger interest in both Socialist Realism and Non-Conformist Art. He sold Petr Konchalovsky’s Still Life with Lilacs, Blue Cup and Book of 1949 (below, left) for £493,200, but the same painter’s White Night, Walking in the Park, Murmansk (1936) failed to sell within its £450,000-£700,000 range. johnhelmer.net Hewitt reports that for the past seven years, “the highest prices for Russian Art are achieved by late 19th and early 20th century artists. The late 19th century artists, led by Ayvazovsky and Shishkin, are primarily of interest to Russian buyers, or to collectors with a strong affinity to Russian culture. The same applies to early 20th century Russian Figurative artists, such as Kustodiev. Works by the Russian Avant-Garde, however, are among the most sought-after on the international market. Whereas the Global Auction Market is driven by Post-War &amp; Contemporary Art, the Russian auction market in this sector is almost negligible. Only a handful of living Russian artists, led by Ilya Kabakov and Erik Bulatov, ever appear in international sales of Contemporary Art.” FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA British Petroleum logo is seen at a petrol station in south LondonLONDON (Reuters) - Shares of UK energy major BP  rose more than 3 percent Tuesday afternoon, with several traders citing market talk of a takeover bid from rival Royal Dutch Shell . Royal Dutch Shell declined to comment, while BP was unavailable for comment. "BP shares have rallied on the back of enthusiastic buying on talk of Shell's interest in the company," said Chris Beauchamp, analyst at IG. "But it seems difficult to believe that Shell would make such a big acquisition at this difficult time for the oil market."  (Reporting by Alasdair Pal, Atul Prakash, Tricia Wright, Ron Bousso and Dmitry Zhdannikov in London; Editing by Alistair Smout) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
ReutersFast food giant McDonald's (NYSE: MCD)  isn't a stock market favorite as we close out 2014. In fact, it's 9th from last among the 30 Dow components when ranked by year-to-date gains. But its hefty dividend payout helps Micky D's stand out as one of the highest-yielding stocks in the blue chip index right now. Let's take a look at that payout and why McDonald's remains a top dividend stock for more reasons than just its unusually high yield. Long historyMcDonald's has been paying — and boosting — its dividend for 39 straight years stretching back to 1976. That's easily enough of payout history to qualify the stock as a Dividend Aristocrat, which requires 25 consecutive annual hikes.  A key benefit of a long dividend past is that it provides lots of data for income investors to judge how their dividend is likely to hold up during boom and busts. In the depths of the Great Recession, 2009 for example, Mickey D's raised its annual payout by a hefty 10% to $2.20 per share. The dividend has grown substantially since then, even through the leaner years of 2013 and 2014. Investors' most recent raises were 5% in each of the last two fiscal years. McDonald's dividend now sits at $3.24 per share, equating to an annual yield of 3.5%. Ample cash flowOf course, a dividend is only as good as the cash-generating power behind it. McDonald's shines in this department as well. The company consistently earns billions in free cash flow that it can direct toward dividends and share repurchases. Lately, operating cash flow has clocked in at about $7 billion per year. In billions. Source: McDonald's financial statements. As you can see in the table above, McDonald's hasn't been forced to skimp on investments in the business in order to keep its dividend marching higher. Spending on capital projects has grown from a $2 billion annual pace in 2010 to $2.8 billion in the last fiscal year. For all of 2014, the burger chain plans to spend $3 billion in opening 1,500 new locations and remodeling 1,000 existing restaurants. Only a handful of companies could swing an investment like that. But in McDonald's case the spending will still leave plenty of cash for distribution to shareholders in dividends and stock buybacks. Big commitment to dividendsMcDonald's management prioritizes dividend payments over buying back shares, which is rare among large dividend stocks right now. In fact, through the first three quarters of 2014 the company has returned $4.6 billion to shareholders, with more than half of that total directed to dividends. Yes, the dividend payout has been growing faster than earnings lately, particularly as McDonald's has struggled to book any comparable-store sales growth in the last two years. But the company's payout ratio, or the percentage of earnings that are dedicated to the dividend, is still a comfortable, and substantial, 60% of trailing twelve month earnings.  MCD Payout Ratio (TTM) data by YCharts McDonald's financial struggles look set to keep the stock one of the Dogs of the Dow for the third year in a row. That's not an achievement that investors would be happy about. However, the flip side of that under-performance is that the company pays one of the highest yields around. And that should keep the stock a popular choice for income investors looking for substantial and growing dividend payouts. Top dividend stocks for the next decadeThe smartest investors know that dividend stocks simply crush their non-dividend paying counterparts over the long term. That’s beyond dispute. They also know that a well-constructed dividend portfolio creates wealth steadily, while still allowing you to sleep like a baby. Knowing how valuable such a portfolio might be, our top analysts put together a report on a group of high-yielding stocks that should be in any income investor’s portfolio. To see our free report on these stocks, just click here.  Demitrios Kalogeropoulos owns shares of McDonald's. The Motley Fool recommends McDonald's. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days. We Fools may not all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlo AlbertiHugh Hendry. Hugh Hendry is a controversial hedge-fund manager who founded and manages Electrica Assets Management. During the financial crisis, Hendry was able to return up to 31% to its investors, making himself a name as one of the most successful assets managers in Europe. Today, he sits down with Merryn Somerset-Webb to talk about what makes a hedge-fund manager successful. Merryn Somerset-Webb: Hugh, I just want to start by asking you what you think makes a successful hedge-fund manager and whether you are, under that definition, a successful manager. Hugh Hendry: I think I’ve always answered that question by relating back to the ability to conceive of a contentious posture. I think if I was to quote from Fight Club, I think there’s a famous saying “Would you rather…” my children would say ,”Would you rather upset God or have God just ignore you?” There’s a degree to which being a successful macro-manager is upsetting, not only God, but to the rest of the world, if you will. By being out there with the articulation of qualitatively intelligent argument, which just isn’t shared by the majority. But which can stand the test of time and come to actually define the future. That is what global macro is all about. With regard to language the notion of “bullish” and “bearish”, I think, does an injustice to the complexity of the arguments that are necessary to construct a global macro hedge fund. I think if I had my time again, I would have been saying that we’re actually, perhaps, guilty of the misconstruing of a bull market in equities, for what is actually the ongoing degradation in the soundness of the fiat monetary system. I think that’s what I was trying to say. MSW: The interesting thing is that you have a reputation of being something of a perma-bear. People think of Hugh Hendry, they think of bearish. But what they’re really thinking about is your macro-economic ideas, not your investing ideas. So they’re remembering your views on deflation, which by the way you’ve been correct on, right? They’re remembering your views on deflation and then they’re remembering your previous views on what might happen to markets as a result of that deflation. The change last year was to think about, not to change your views on the economic condition, but to change your views on how they would affect asset markets. HH: Yeah. A very good point and I’m sure everyone’s aware that we, as a business, have experienced quite a substantial amount of redemptions from the fund. There was a degree to which there was that pigeonholing, and that of being a bearish diversifier, if you will, to an investors’ portfolio. After all, I was the guy who made 30% odd in 2008. That’s out there, and of course with the redemptions there was the notion that I turned into, rather than a diversifier, a concentrator. MSW: Well, there was also, slightly, the idea that you had somehow capitulated. HH: Indeed. MSW: You had given in to a bull market that you had refused to accept previously. HH: Such is my performance cabaret persona, I certainly would have alluded to that notion, and a degree of mea culpa. Again, what it is with me is, I’m weird. I cannot truly engage, unless I get angry, I don’t think… and possibly it’s back to my Scottish roots and the weather. So if you cast your mind back, the last time I was really angry was late 2010-2011. Where the market, in its wisdom, had yet to configure the changing economic landscape, and it was perceiving that the economy in Europe and elsewhere was recovering. Therefore the fixed income markets were beginning to price in a very high probability that central banks would raise their overnight rates. To make matters worse, of course the ECB when it was governed by Trichet, actually came to the fore and raised rates. I thought that was just insane, that we weren’t capturing the kind of deflationary zeitgeist that was approaching. So with that anger, if you will, I really took on a lot of risk. I was long on fixed income and in the vernacular I was receiving interest rates. So essentially I had a large fixed income bet, which said these rate rises will have to be rescinded and the expectation that there would be further rises are just not going to happen. That proved to be correct, if you will, and that was my last moment, really. I have to say when I look back in the last three years it feels as if the sun only rose each day to humiliate me after that point. MSW: I doubt it was really quite that bad, was it, really? HH: In my mind, at times, it’s felt bad. But the mea culpa, that I think is very necessary in that I found myself unable to forgive the Federal Reserve and the other central banks for, if you will, bailing out Wall Street from the excess of 2008. I just couldn’t get over it. I luxuriated in the polemics of Marc Faber and James Grant and Nassim Taleb, in our own country, Albert Edwards, et al. I luxuriated as they ranted and it was fine for them to rant. But I am charged with the responsibility of making money and not being some moral guardian and certainly not a moral curmudgeon. I had to get over that. So again, back to my infamous letter of last year. That was cathartic for me to say “You know what? I get it.” I think if we’re going to try and explain the qualitative arguments behind why we are more receptive to the notion of not only left tails where markets can fall, but the right-hand tail of the expression, where markets can actually continue to rise if not to accelerate. MSW: But the key point from talking about Marc Faber and Albert Edwards, etc is that you don’t disagree with these people on the fundamental economic condition of deflation. You just disagree with them on the effect on the markets of Central Bank behaviour and on the longevity of that behaviour. HH: Increasingly, I have to say I just disagree with them. I literally and with the utmost respect, I’ve turned the volume down to zero. Previously they were like sheet music. When I read it, I could see the trades appear in front of me, and I just don’t hear the sound of music today. That’s my difficulty. So I really feel very, very isolated from their view of the world. Arguably, we’re talking about the here and now and the future’s a long time. But in the future, I’m sure our paths can converge once more. MSW: OK. Well, let’s talk about your view of the world now. Last year there was the infamous letter, the great bullish letter, as something you’d be interested in and your clients said, “No, not really.” Can we make mention of it now? Is there something you can say to your clients now that would re-interest them in this concept of the great bull? HH: Well, let’s have a go. Because there are two things unfolding. Hedge funds and within the broad tranche of hedge funds, macro hedge funds are struggling to make money, and there is a dissatisfaction with that. I’m not the only manager to have suffered withdrawals. MSW: Why do you think that this sector as whole is failing to make money? What’s going on there? HH: Well, I can’t be a spokesman for other and far better managers. MSW: But I’m sure you can allow yourself to comment on them. HH: But I can reflect on my own difficulties, if you will. What I’ve found is that macro is distinguished, I believe, by superior risk control. It’s almost analogous to a disaster insurance programme. In 2008, all the good macro managers, they made you money. That’s what you pay them for. The world became profoundly unsettling and you cashed in your insurance policy. Today, I question the relevancy of that disaster insurance. In a world where the central banks seem to have your back, seem to be underwriting risks and global asset prices, do you require that intense scrutiny of risk? So when I look at my fund, my fund’s not dissimilar to others. We go out of our way to avoid traumatic periods of losing money. For us, typically, that would be defined as losing 5% or more in one month. Such, I think, is our capability that we have 12 years, in running this fund. So 144 monthly observations. Out of that we have had the indignity of suffering nine such months. Not that many when you consider the tremendous amount of either bull market or bear markets that have gone on. But it forces you, that disaster scheme if you will, or prevention scheme, it forces you to reduce risk. Which is to say to sell the things you like when they go down in price. Notably this year, I had constructed this argument that I wanted to be bullish, yes, and yet, with risk control, I found myself a seller at lower and lower prices. Lo and behold, it became impossible to fulfil my mandate and to make money. I think that is a problem that I shared with many others. Now I have, again I’m introvert, and I look and I examine my own behaviour. I have concluded that my risk tolerances were too taut and it was creating too much of my own intervention, in the portfolio, and it was damaging to the client’s performance. So I’ve pulled back or I’ve widened the tolerance of the portfolio. MSW: So your basic point here is that if the central banks have your back, there’s no need to have the same kind of risk controls that you used to have. HH: There is less need. Less need. I tell you, I was at a conference with some of the great and the good global macro managers in September in New York and I asked them all the question, “If the S&amp;P is down 12% what do you do? Are you selling more or are you buying?” Guess what? They’re all buying. So the central banks have created a behavioural tic which is becoming self-reinforcing and I believe we saw another manifestation of that behaviour in October. So when I look at the year, I started the year hugely bullish on Japan. Hugely bullish, let me say, not qualitatively. I’m not an advocate of the three arrows and the resuscitation to the great heights of whatever Japan represented in the 1980s. I am saying that I can see persistent failure to achieve such honourable ambitions, which leaves no recourse but to intervene again and again and again. Therefore I see the Yen being a weak currency. The other side of that, the stock market, being higher and higher and higher. But I think four months of the year the Japanese market had fallen 16% from its high, and I had to swallow my pride and I had to reduce position. I had to sell at lower prices, and yet, such is the foreboding presence or shadow cast by the Bank of Japan, that not even if we mentioned the recent intervention, without that intervention the Nikkei had gone back to its previous highs. So I was wrong in selling. Again, over the summer the European stock markets had a similar decline, even greater if you look at the banks’ index, I think it was down over 20% and what happened? The ECB responded and took its rates negative and it committed to re-engaging, re-utilising its balance sheet to acquire European risk assets. Prices rapidly rallied from the middle of August into September. Why did I sell? So thankfully, you only make those mistakes a few times, if you’re wise. So when we came into October, I got it. I got it. That, as a discipline, meant we stayed invested in the month of October and then we were able to buy more equity risk towards the middle of the month. Which is to say, we made money in October. We made money in September and we made money in August. So if you will, it’s not just the narrative, it’s the risk engagement and giving trade expressions the room to breathe, such that they may prosper. MSW:So the simple message here, is in a market like this never sell anything and you’ll be fine. HH: You can say that, but I cannot. FREE AppDownload
Bond fund manager Bill Gross thinks bonds might be expensive. Early Tuesday, Bill Gross took to Twitter, commenting on the speech given Monday by New York Fed president Bill Dudley.  Gross noted that Dudley thinks that while the natural interest rate — or the rate at which the Fed's inflation and employment objectives are achieved — may be lower than they've been historically going forward, this rate could still be 3%-4%. Interest rates are currently at 0%-0.25%.  Gross wrote that if Dudley is right about the natural interest rate, then bonds are overpriced by 2%-3%.  On Tuesday morning, the US 10-year yield was around 2.2% and the 30-year bond was near 3%.  Gross' comments come after Jeff Gundlach, who has usurped Gross as the "Bond King," told CNBC that Treasury bonds still look relatively cheap. In the past, Gundlach has said that he doesn't think the Fed has any plans to raise rates. And while last week Gundlach told CNBC that he thinks the Fed might raise rates next year "just to see what happens," he added that with Spanish 10-year bonds yielding less than 2% it seems "almost unthinkable" that US Treasury yields would rise.  Gross, who unexpectedly left PIMCO back in September, did meet with Gundlach about joining his firm, DoubleLine Capital, but the two decided not to join forces. Gundlach told CNBC that Gross joining DoubleLine was "sort of a 50-50 kind of proposition," but said that ultimately, he is okay with the decision because had investors asked him, after signing Gross, what the move meant for DoubleLine, he answer would have been, "I don't know." Divergent views within a firm are common, if not healthy. But Gundlach and Gross are the two biggest names in the bond world, and so given their split view of the bond market, maybe it's better that they're not working together. FREE AppDownload
Photo by Andrew Burton/Getty ImagesWhile it's pretty clear that lower oil prices are great for the average US consumer, many are worried about what will happen to the massive US energy sector.  Since the advent of modern hydraulic fracturing, the energy production industry has been a robust source of new, well-paying jobs. But while the drop in oil prices is certainly bruising energy business, Goldman Sachs' Kris Dawsey believes the net effect will be positive for US employment.  Why?   Although jobs in energy sectors have grown quickly over the past few years, they still make up a small share of the overall US employment. In other words, even if there are job cuts within the energy sector, they will not largely affect the US job market as a whole. Additionally, "stronger growth and the consequent boost to real incomes" from lower oil prices "should result in a positive effect on overall employment," Dawsey says. Goldman Sachs, Department of Labor The only places that could really be hurt by the drop in prices are local economies "particularly reliant on energy production," Dawsey adds. And "riskier players may be forced out of the market as shale profits in the southern plains and gulf region appear at risk," according BTIG's Dan Greenhaus. Ultimately, it will all become clearer in once in hindsight. "Barring a sharp reversal to the upside in oil prices, this debate is not likely to end anytime soon, and it raises even more uncertainty regarding 2015," Greenhaus said. "It seems to us too easy to simply say [the dropping oil prices] are all amazingly wonderful for the US economy." Nevertheless, he concedes, that lower oil prices are a far better fate than higher oil prices. FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's BlogCould it be that the plunge in oil prices isn’t just attributable to a supply glut? Perhaps the global economy has turned much weaker since the summer than widely recognized. The Eurozone’s recovery since the summer of 2013 has been very weak. The sanctions imposed on Russia during the summer of this year seem to have hurt lots of businesses in the Eurozone. China’s anti-corruption drive has depressed demand for luxury properties and high-end consumer goods among the country’s elite. And now the plunge in oil prices will depress spending by oil-rich countries. Let’s have a look at some of the key global economic indicators before turning to a more detailed analysis on a country-by-country basis: (1) Industrial commodity prices. So far, the plunge in the price of a barrel of Brent hasn’t been reflected in a comparable drop in the CRB raw industrials spot price index. This index has been range-bound since the start of 2012 between 495 and 550. It is currently at the bottom of that range with a reading of 505. (2) Copper price. On the other hand, the price of copper, which is a component of the CRB raw industrials spot price index, fell sharply last week, posting the longest string of readings below $3.00 since the summer of 2010. (3) Emerging markets. As I noted yesterday, the Emerging Markets MSCI stock price index continues to track the range-bound CRB raw industrials spot price index. It hasn’t plunged along with oil prices or in response to the stronger dollar, so far. (4) Global M-PMI. Yesterday, Markit reported that global manufacturing production “expanded at the slowest pace for 15 months in November, as growth of new orders hit a 16-month low and the trend in international trade volumes stagnated.” Output rose for the 25th consecutive month, but the rate of expansion was the lowest since August 2013. The press release stated that some of the weakness was attributable to “stagnation in China.” Dr. Ed's BlogToday's Morning Briefing: Slippery Slope. (1) Too much supply, or weakening demand? (2) Negative and positive knock-on effects. (3) Clash of the Titans in the oil patch. (4) US frackers could be more resourceful than Saudis expect. (5) From peak oil to cheap oil. (6) Yergin’s upbeat story for lower oil prices. (7) Getting more cash to drill into the ground will be challenging. (8) Other global economic indicators suggest oil plunge is a supply issue rather than a demand one. (9) Survey of global economies is a mixed bag, with US standing out. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
Maximizing productivity before lunch is essential to becoming a better worker and getting the job done. Here are nine steps to get you on the right track before your lunch break. Produced by Devan Joseph Follow BI Video: On Facebook  
REUTERS/Mikhail KlimentyevRussian President Vladimir Putin looks at a mobile phone with Olympic gold medalist Adelina Sotnikova during his meeting with athletes in Sochi February 2014.JonesTrading's Dave Lutz has a roundup of what traders are chatting about right now. Good Morning!   US Futures are looking to rebound this AM, led by a 30bp pop in Nasdaq and Russell.   A sharp rebound in Energy and Mining shares helped the FTSE climb 1% and the DAX hit a new record (the surge in Gold/Silver yesterday occurred after the 11:30 EU/UK Close) – but weaker PPI has pressed the German market back into the red in average volumes.  Over in Asia, Russia’s MICEX is up small, and the Ruble showing some stability after yesterday’s slaughter.   Hang Seng, which lost 2% Monday as protests ramped, rebounded 1.2% - but the standout winner was China, as dovish expectations ramped the Shanghai up over 3%, led by their Fins.    The 2 Central Bank announcements overnight proved as expected - India’s Central Bank declined to cut rates despite their inflation at 5Y Lows – Sensex lost 40bp, while Aussie left rates unchanged, despite the China Slowdown, as they didn’t want to fuel the property bubble further  The US 10YY is off small, with the curve flattening (Fin headwind) – while German Bunds reversed early weakness with yields resting at session lows after their PPI print.   The DXY has regained most of yesterday’s losses against Euro and Yen –causing a sharp headwind for commodities.  Silver, which surged 17% off lows yesterday, is off 3% - and Gold has failed to hold $1200/oz and is off roughly 1%.   Crude futures are resting on lows, with WTI off 1.6%, while the softs are all under water.    Scheduled Catalysts today include ICSC-Goldman Sachs Chain Store Sales at 7:45; Fed's Fischer Speaks on a Panel at 8:10, Fed's Yellen Gives Welcoming Remarks to Students at 8:30, at 9:45 we get ISM New York, at 10 Construction Spending – at 10:30 Schaeuble speaks, and at 12 Fed's Brainard Speaks by Video on Paperwork Reduction.  API data for Crude after the close tomorrow  Today I’ll be looking for the reversal of 2 ETF Allocator trades from yesterday, where we had one selling MIds while rotating to Treasuries – and another leaving explosive volumes in Utes (Buying) - Discretionary (Selling) - Fins (Selling) and Tech (Selling).  Watch the Oil equities, where OIH/XOP sharply underperformed the commodity yesterday (felt like a gorilla reversed out of a Long Equities, Short Commodity pair).  All eyes should remain on Gold though – Yesterday at the EU Close (11:30aET) we saw Gold breaking higher while Treasuries sold off.   It didn’t feel like a “Inflation” or “Safety” trade, but more like a Central Bank was dumping Treasuries to buy Gold.    Heavy chatter the Russians were active intervening on the Ruble, maybe the funding came from Treasuries. FREE AppDownload
Brendan McDermid/ReutersVictoria's Secret model Alessandra Ambrosio reveals the Floral Fantasy Bra gift set at Victoria's Secret store in New York, October 18, 2012. The Victoria's Secret Fashion Show is in London for the first time. More than 40 models including Adriana Lima, Candice Swanepoel and Karlie Kloss will take to the catwalk later to showcase the lingerie brand's latest products. The show's arrival in the capital suggests the underwear empire is continuing its focus to expand beyond the US. But how did the American company grow into one of the most-talked-about brands today? The story of Victoria’s Secret starts in the 1970s, when 30-year-old business graduate Roy Raymond wanted to buy some lingerie for his wife. Walking into a department store, he found the experience an embarrassing one and decided there was a gap in the market for a high end store that would cater for men, as well as women. In 1977, Mr Raymond took out a $40,000 bank loan and $40,000 borrowed from relatives to open his first Victoria’s Secret shop in a shopping mall in California. Inspired by 19th century England, his store was decorated with dark wood, red velvet sofas and silk drapes, a contrast to the garish department store offerings at the time. Lucas Jackson/ReutersModels dance during the finale of the annual Victoria's Secret Fashion Show in New York, November 13, 2013.The company earned $500,000 its first year. And by the time Mr Raymond sold the business in 1982 for about $1m, Victoria’s Secret had five stores and a mail-order catalogue that made $6m a year. By the early 1990s, Victoria’s Secret had become the largest American lingerie retailer, with 350 stores and sales topping in excess of $1bn. However, it was struggling to compete with lower-priced brands and owner Leslie Wexner, creator of The Limited clothing business, needed something radical to take the brand to the next level. The breakthrough came in 1995, when the brand launched the first of its notorious Victoria’s Secret fashion shows. A relatively traditional affair, with models wearing simple lingerie, it wasn’t until three years later that angel wings appeared on the runway modelled by Tyra Banks. By 2000, the shows began to take a lavish turn and the $15m price tag for the ruby and diamond encrusted bra worn by supermodel Gisele Bündchen was then the most expensive item of lingerie ever created. Now no Victoria’s Secret fashion show is complete without a multimillion pound “Fantasy Bra”, and one model is typically chosen to wear it each show. Miranda Kerr, Heidi Klum and Adriana Lima have all worn it in the last decade. This year's notorious Dream Angels Fantasy Bra, designed for Victoria's Secret by jeweller Mouawad, will be worn by two models for the first time, Adriana Lima and Alessandra Ambrosio. The bras are valued at $2m each and decorated with 16,000 handset precious gems, accompanied by body pieces of fine gemstones strung together with 18-carat gold. The brand chooses models which it thinks women will relate to, but came under fire earlier this year for adverts suggesting that its slim models have ‘the perfect body’. The fashion shows, costing around $15m (£10m) to stage, are set against performances by A-list artists which have included Taylor Swift, Katy Perry and Usher, and are a key part of the business. Justin Bieber, Rihanna and Bruno Mars appear with models during the Victoria's Secrets fashion show finale at Lexington Armory in New York Victoria’s Secret now has more than 1000 shops in the US and controls 35pc of the country’s lingerie market. Sales were $6.6bn in 2013 and the company is worth around $1.9bn. In 2012, the brand opened its first stores in London and the company entered mainland China this year, as it looks to grow the brand’s presence in Asia. Today’s Victoria’s Secret fashion show at the Earls Court Exhibition Centre is the first time it has come to the city and is only the second time the event has left the US, after transferring to Cannes in France in 2000. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Adrees LatifStudent activists stage a "die-in" as part of the nationwide "Hands up, walk out" protest, demanding justice for the fatal Aug. 9 shooting of 18-year-old Michael Brown, at Washington University in St. Louis on Monday.Good morning! Here are 10 of the biggest stories you should hear about before markets open in the US. Russia Is Heading Into Recession. Deputy Economy Minister Alexei Vedev has warned that Russia is likely to enter its first recession since 2009. The Economy Ministry downgraded its forecast for 2015 growth to -0.8% from +1.2%. This comes amid crashing oil prices, a tumbling ruble, and punishing economic sanctions from western trading partners. Russia Abandons A Major Pipeline Project. "Russia's $40 billion South Stream gas pipeline project has fallen victim to plunging energy prices, stalling European demand and the political standoff between the European Union and Moscow over the crisis in Ukraine," Reuters' Henning Gloystein and Dmitry Zhdannikov reported. "Russia on Monday said it had scrapped the project to supply gas to Europe without crossing Ukraine, citing EU objections, and named Turkey as its preferred partner." Eurozone Producer Prices Tumble. Crashing oil prices are manifesting in Europe's inflation data. "Eurozone factory prices fell at their sharpest monthly rate in a year in October as the cost of energy and non-durable goods such as food dropped sharply, putting pressure on the European Central Bank to do more to lift the bloc's depressed economy," Reuters' Philip Blenkinsop reported. "Prices at factory gates in the 18 countries sharing the single currency declined by 0.4% from September." S&amp;P Joined Moody's In Criticism Of Japan's Public Finances. Standard &amp; Poor's cast doubt on the ability of Japan Prime Minister Shinzo Abe to repair the country's tattered finances, a day after Moody's tarnished the government's economic record less than two weeks away from a major election. And Japanese Workers' Wages Came In Below Inflation For The 16th Month. Wages rose by only 0.5% in the year to October, well below inflation, even after stripping out the effect of April's sales tax increase. It's Merger Tuesday. "British insurer Aviva agreed terms for a 5.6 billion pounds ($8.8 billion) takeover of rival Friends Life  in all share deal which creates a market leader with 16 million life insurance customers," Reuters' Huw Jones and Carolyn Cohn reported. "Aviva said the merged company is expected to generate 600 million pounds in excess cash flow a year and about 225 million pounds in annual cost savings by the end of 2017." Markets Aren't Doing Much. US futures are in the green with Dow futures up 28 points and S&amp;P 500 futures up 2 points. Europe is mixed with Britain's FTSE 100 up 1.0%, France's CAC 40 up 0.1%, and Germany's DAX down 0.2%. Japan's Nikkei closed up 0.42%, and Hong Kong's Hang Seng closed up 1.2%. Cyber Monday Was Good. Online sales on Monday jumped 8.7% year-over-year according to data from IBM Digital Analytics. Mobile sales surged 29.3%. "This trend may indicate that shoppers are becoming more comfortable and digitally savvy in how they use online coupons and rebates to secure the best bargains," according to IBM.  The average transaction price was flat at $133.07. It's worth noting that analysts were forecasting 13%-15% growth in online sales, so these stats are arguably disappointing. Another GM Recall. "General Motors Co  will recall 316,357 SUVs and sedans, mainly in North America, because the low-beam headlights can stop working, the company said on Monday," Reuters' Bernie Woodall reported. "Affected vehicles are the model years 2006-2009 Buick LaCrosse sedans; 2006-2007 Chevrolet Trailblazer, GMC Envoy and Buick Rainier SUVs; and 2006-2008 Saab 9-7X and Isuzu Ascender SUVs." Get Ready For Auto Sales... The big automakers will release their November US sales stats. Analysts estimate the pace of vehicle sales increased to an annualized rate of 16.55 million units in November, up from 16.35 million in October. "Autos haven’t typically been a focus of Black Friday, but last year the industry made a push to get in on the holiday sales frenzy to good results, and there’s an effort underway again this year to get more people into dealerships after Thanksgiving," Morgan Stanley's Ted Wieseman noted. "So we’re looking for some more upside to potentially reach 17 million for only the second time in the past eight years." FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA bitcoin ATM machine is shown at a restaurant in San DiegoSYDNEY (Reuters) - A top Australian law enforcement agency is investigating bitcoin's role in organized crime, a senior official said, just as politicians and financial regulators embrace the digital currency as a legitimate part of modern business. The investigation into bitcoin's crime links by one authority as others embrace it highlights the crossroads governments have reached as they struggle to regulate the five-year-old "cryptocurrency", a method of making anonymous payments which has surged in popularity around the world. Australian Crime Commission Executive Director Judy Lind revealed for the first time that investigators will monitor "misuse of virtual currencies to facilitate criminal activity" at a national and international level, under an operation named Project Longstrike. "We know that virtual currencies including bitcoin are used as payment methods to facilitate illicit trade on the darknet," Lind told Reuters in a statement, referring to a hidden part of the Internet where information can be shared anonymously and without revealing the location of its source. "Organized crime groups continue to make use of darknets to harbor trading in illicit commodities, including child exploitation material, illicit drugs and firearms, stolen credit card and identity data, and hacking techniques." Project Longstrike is just the latest example of Australia's determination to crack down on bitcoin-enabled crime. Last month, Australia said it extradited to the United States the alleged primary moderator of Silk Road, a website where people bought illegal drugs like heroin using bitcoins. In October, police seized Queensland state's first bitcoin automated teller machine five months after it opened, with media reporting police believed it was being used by a former motorcycle gang member to deal crystal methamphetamine. Regulators around the world are wary after the Mt Gox bitcoin exchange filed for bankruptcy in Tokyo earlier this year, saying it lost some 850,000 bitcoins - worth about $300 million at current prices - in a hacking attack. Like many countries, Japan has allowed bitcoin trading to continue without establishing a full set of rules on its legal status. U.S. authorities are yet to agree to cohesive laws, while the United Kingdom is seen as a world leader because it has classified bitcoins as a currency. Australian authorities are also trying to facilitate legal bitcoin trades in a country where use of the currency is exploding. Between its 23.6 million people, Australia has an estimated 7 percent of the $5 billion worth of bitcoins now circulating, with reports of online retailers, real estate agents and even pubs accepting bitcoin payments. The Australian Taxation Office has published a guide for bitcoin traders on how to declare their investments, and a parliamentary inquiry is trying to lay the groundwork for a broader regulatory approach to the digital currency. But David Glance, director of the University of Western Australia's Centre for Software Practice, said Australia appeared to be sending mixed messages. "Politicians singularly fail to understand what (the digital economy) is all about. They latch onto trends and buzzwords," he said, referring to the tax office guidelines and parliamentary inquiry. "There still isn't a problem that bitcoin solves, other than buying drugs," he added. Darknet sites including Silk Road and its successor Silk Road 2.0 did about $3 billion of turnover annually in the year to November, Glance said, equivalent to more than half the total bitcoins now in circulation. REUTERS/Andy ClarkJeff Hudson poses for a picture in front of, according to co-founders of Vancouver Bitcoiniacs Trading Company, the first bitcoin ATM machine in a Waves Coffee House in Vancouver, British Columbia October 28, 2013. Senator Sam Dastyari, who is running the parliamentary inquiry, said bitcoins offered a way to "shake up" Australia's "stale" banking industry. A regulatory system is needed that policed crime without restricting the currency, he said. "There is going to be a place for some kind of digital-style currency. There is inevitability that it will play some kind of role," Dastyari said. "Do you go and start regulating it first, or wait for the IMF to do it first and come on board?" Australia could soon see the world's first direct share market listing of a virtual currency exchange, in a sign of how rapidly bitcoin businesses are entering the mainstream. Melbourne-based start-up Bitcoin Group hopes to raise A$20 million ($17 million) and plans to file a prospectus by Christmas which will not include financial forecasts. Bitcoin Group Chief Executive Officer Sam Lee compared the currency to the early "wild, wild west" days of the Internet, and shrugged off concerns that it mainly served as a vehicle for illegal transactions. "We've moved far beyond that now," he said. "We expect (bitcoin currency) to clean itself up as more capital and more smart people flow into the ecosystem."   (Editing by Stephen Coates) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersAn Iranian gold coin is placed next to bank notes at a gold shop in Tehran(Reuters) - Islamic banking is growing faster than its conventional counterpart but is focused in a few core markets and risks missing an opportunity to build a global footprint, the EY consultancy said in a report on Tuesday. Islamic banks across six core markets of Qatar, Indonesia, Saudi Arabia, Malaysia, the United Arab Emirates and Turkey held $625 billion at the end of 2013 or 80 percent of the global Islamic finance market, the report said. The figure was 95 percent when Bahrain, Pakistan and Kuwait are included. Estimates exclude Iran which has a distinct model for Islamic finance, which follows religious guidelines such as a ban on interest and on pure monetary speculation. The report estimated the combined Islamic banking assets in the six core markets will reach $1.8 trillion by 2019, buoyed by growth which has been 1.9 times faster than that of conventional banks over the 2009-2013 period. The six core markets now comprise 82 percent of the global industry, and this could rise even further, said Ashar Nazim, a partner at EY's global Islamic banking center. "As the populous centers of Turkey and Malaysia gain momentum and Saudi banks continue their transformation to sharia compliance, we expect the market share to account for between 80 percent to 90 percent of the global market." Beyond these markets, the industry is expected to make some gains in Egypt, Pakistan and North African countries such as Tunisia, Algeria and Morocco, Nazim added. "However, in the absence of regulatory reforms and strong sovereign support, the pace of growth is likely to be moderate." Islamic bank revenues are also underweight on trade finance and lending to medium-sized businesses, two core areas in fast-growing emerging markets. According to EY, 10 of the 25 high-value emerging markets are core Islamic finance markets. "This is a once-in-15-year-opportunity to capture the share of this evolving trade market for younger Islamic banks," Nazim said. Entry into such markets would allow Islamic banks to build much-needed scale, but many lack the expertise and risk appetite to venture abroad, which has in turn affected profitability. Average return on equity for a sample of the top 20 Islamic banks was 11.9 percent over a five year period, compared to 14.5 percent for a sample of 20 conventional banks, the report said. The top 20 Islamic banks were roughly a quarter the size of their conventional peers. (Editing by Eric Meijer) FREE AppDownload
Alexander Zemlianichenko/APAndrei Nikolaev, manager of Yalta Film Studios, walks across one of the movie sets in the hills of Crimea.Yalta Film Studios is one of dozens of businesses to be forcibly taken over this year since Crimea’s new pro-Moscow leaders came to power in March. One day in October, a dozen armed men in masks drove up to the gates of Yalta Film Studios. They weren't actors, and this was no make-believe. It was a hostile takeover, and the movie sets, littered with debris from a Crimean War reenactment and a faux Mexican village, were the target. "They forced all the employees onto the ground, sealed off the premises and halted the work of the studio," said owner Sergei Arshinov. The studio, nestled in hills overlooking the Black Sea, is just one of thousands of businesses seized from their owners since Crimea was annexed by Russia eight months ago. Crimea's new pro-Moscow leaders say the takeovers, which they call nationalizations, are indispensable to reverse more than two decades of wholesale plunder by Ukrainian politicians and oligarchs. But an Associated Press investigation throughout this peninsula the size of Massachusetts found many instances of less noble practices: legal owners strong-armed off their premises; buildings, farms and other prime real estate seized on dubious pretenses, or with no legal justification at all; non-payment of the compensation mandated by the Russian constitution; and targeting of assets belonging to or used by independent news media, the Crimean Tatar ethnic minority and the pro-Kiev branch of the Orthodox Church. In a preliminary estimate, Ukraine's Justice Ministry told AP that around 4,000 enterprises, organizations and agencies have had their property expropriated. Some holdings, from shipyards to health resorts, were publicly earmarked for repossession by Crimea's regional government, now part of the Russian Federation. Others were simply seized by armed men, sometimes carrying official decrees that were never published or no documentation at all. Owners have complained that the beneficiaries of some seizures aren't Crimea's people, but the local politicians now in charge, backed by Moscow. Their appeals to police, courts and even Russia's leading authorities, they told AP, have gone nowhere. "It turns out that, as corrupt as the Ukrainian government was, they didn't allow themselves to do what the Russian Federation is now doing," said Zhan Zapruta, lawyer for a bus company seized by armed men in September. Alexander Zemlianichenko/APDozens of businesses and properties have been forcibly seized since Crimea’s new pro-Moscow leaders came to power in March, and Massandra has lost a 30-acre plot of land in a popular resort town to the local authorities.At the 34,600-acre Dobrobut farm in far eastern Crimea, the fields these days lie fallow, and the 26 employees haven't been paid for months. Men in camouflage stand guard and patrol in a Humvee-like vehicle, ready to chase away would-be visitors. It was June when two carloads of men arrived at the farm's squat cement administration building near the Kerch Strait with pistols, clubs and assault rifles, according to managers. In hand, the men had a piece of paper signed by Crimea's Russia-installed prime minister, Sergei Aksyonov. The document, seen by the AP but never issued publicly, proclaimed that the land tilled by Dobrobut — under lease from the local village — was being nationalized. The men booted out the workers and took over not only the fields, but also Dobrobut's buildings, the harvest of 800 tons of barley and 5,000 tons of rapeseed, and the combines, half-dozen tractors and other equipment that the company had been renting, all worth about $1.6 million. Alexander Garfner, an attorney for Dobrobut, sued in a Crimean court, now part of the Russian justice system. On Sept. 2, the lawsuit was thrown out. "If we look at the law, then there is no basis for this — it's simply a takeover," Garfner said. The nationalization attempt, he said, "was clearly just a land grab, because it's big money." Since joining Russia, Crimea's leaders have asserted a power none of their counterparts in the vast country's other regions has: the right to order nationalization of property. They also possess a unique brand of muscle: the so-called self-defense forces that answer to Aksyonov, and helped quash dissent during the campaign to secede from Ukraine in February and March. Those forces, made a permanent police auxiliary force on Nov. 26, have been involved in many of the real estate takeovers. Aksyonov was installed as prime minister by Russian President Vladimir Putin and reconfirmed by the Crimean parliament in October, after elections rejected by the United States and other Western nations as illegal and invalid. Aksyonov said the nationalization law, enacted Aug. 8, is needed to right the wrongs committed by corrupt Ukrainian officials. In Ukraine, as in much of the former Soviet Union, a lot of state property was sold off to private owners at dust-bin prices because the government was broke, or to benefit cronies. "Over the past 10 years, the majority of state property was illegally stolen from the government," Aksyonov told AP. "All sorts of enterprises were privatized via fraudulent schemes and the state didn't receive any money for those privatizations." Many cases examined by the AP, however, involved properties that have been in private hands for more than a decade. Also, Russia's constitution stipulates that private property can be transferred to the government only by court order, with the owners compensated fully and in advance. The Russian government's Ministry of Crimea, responsible for overseeing the peninsula, said in a statement that it cannot certify whether the nationalization law is unconstitutional, and that Russia's Supreme Court alone can answer the question. Aksyonov, though, is adamant: "Why must we tolerate the unscrupulous owners who, thanks to the fact that they used fraudulent schemes or paid bribes to bureaucrats, stole property that should belong to the state?" Laura Mills/APA ship-building factory in Kerch, Crimea. The ship-building factory was forcibly seized from its Ukrainian owners by a Russian company in August.The seizures investigated by the AP vary in scale and type of assets involved. But many, like Dobrobut, are reliably profitable and would require little additional investment. Krymavtotrans, the company represented by Zapruta, is the sole legal vendor of bus tickets in Crimea, bringing in $14.6 million in yearly sales. Another business snapped up by the authorities, Krympotrebsoyuz, enjoys a near-monopoly on renting out stalls to traders in the region's markets. In northwestern Crimea, armed men seized a 13,000-acre farm along with its crops, mostly forage, because it hadn't paid off a $1.2 million debt that wasn't due for another six months. The men carried documents from a Crimean court, shown later to the AP, that ordered the deadline for repayment unexpectedly pushed forward. A lawyer for the current owner, speaking on condition he not be identified for fear of official reprisal, said there is no way his client can pay, and he may lose the farm as a result. The creditor company did not respond to the AP's request for comment. There's no doubt some of the losers in Crimea's new order have been Ukrainian magnates or pro-Kiev politicians stripped of their assets. Andrei Senchenko, a seventh-generation Crimean and local leader of Ukraine's Fatherland party, estimated his own losses at "several tens of millions of dollars," including shares in a building materials plant and an office center in the regional capital of Simferopol that have been seized. "They tried to influence me and, what's more, made me a definite proposition, that I should change my rhetoric and relationship to the occupation of Crimea," Senchenko said of Crimea's leaders. "But I gave a clear 'no.'" His claim could not be independently verified by the AP. The biggest loser so far has been Ihor Kolomoisky, a Ukrainian oligarch and nationalist firebrand who has helped fund armed militias fighting against pro-Russian rebels in Ukraine's east. Aksyonov's government has taken 65 of his properties, including all branches of Privatbank, one of the largest in Crimea. In some cases, employees appeared happy to be rid of their old bosses. At Krymkhleb, the region's main producer of bread, workers filmed themselves pouring flour over the head of the general director, a Ukrainian businessman they accused of embezzlement. The Zaliv shipyard, owned by a Ukrainian tycoon, was seized in August and taken over by a Russian-registered company with only $300 to its name, according to Russian public records. But employees told the AP they hoped for an influx of investment and orders for new ships. Alexander Zemlianichenko/APRameta Kushkhova walks by barrels of wine in the state-owned Massandra winery in Yalta, Crimea. Aksyonov has said he is acting on behalf of Crimea and its 2.3 million citizens and has no stake in companies that have been nationalized. But inside and outside the region, some politicians and businessmen have accused the prime minister and his associates of trying to take as much as they can for themselves. "One must understand that in Crimea, in essence, a gangster regime has been established under the protection of Moscow," said Sergei Mitrokhin, leader of Russia's opposition Yabloko party. "Former criminals have come to power, and have started to carve up the property." Aksyonov, 41, has been identified by some opponents as a former mid-level gang member known as "Goblin" who in the 1990s was involved in extortion rackets. In 2010, he sued a Crimean politician who claimed he had led an organized crime brigade, but eventually lost the case. Since he has become Crimea's supreme leader, at least one of his accusers has recanted. At the state-owned Massandra vineyards and winery in the southern coastal hills, managers told AP that Crimea's new leaders were eying their property. Crimean authorities have launched a criminal investigation of Massandra's general director, Nikolai Boyko, for alleged embezzlement, which the winery's management said is groundless and politically motivated. In the meantime, Crimea's leaders have been compelled to cede Massandra and its holdings to an agency of the Russian presidency. They kept only a sliver — a 30-acre plot — under a Sept. 25 decree of the region's Council of Ministers. "When our politicians were told to hand over the territory (to the Kremlin), they can't fail to fulfill that order, because they know they will have to answer for it," a Massandra executive told AP, on condition of anonymity out of fear of official reprisal. "So they are trying to carry out that order, but nonetheless, take a little piece for themselves." Aksyonov said the nationalization law will remain in force for around 12 months to facilitate Crimea's integration into Russia. But it carries no automatic expiry date, and managers at Massandra and other business people told AP they fear it may be used by local authorities as long as valuable assets remain for the taking. Alexander Zemlianichenko/APUkrainian Orthodox Church Archbishop Kliment conducts a service in the St. Olga and St. Vladimir Cathedral in Simferopol, Crimea. Along with politicians, some minorities and news media hostile to annexation are also facing loss of property. Crimea's 300,000 Tatar Muslims feel particularly vulnerable because of their tenuous hold on the homes and land they inhabit, and their history under Moscow's rule. Uprooted and deported in 1944 under Josef Stalin, many Crimean Tatars have since returned to cement-block homes built on vacant lots that they do not legally own. Crimea's new leaders have repeatedly assured the Tatars they have nothing to fear, but Sityaga Kazakov, who runs a Tatar cultural center in the seaside town of Alushta, said his experience shows otherwise. He was told last month his organization's lease agreement with municipal authorities, supposed to run until 2016, was being canceled and the property put up for competitive bid. The Tatar center stands to lose $15,000 it spent on improving the building. "I can't say that we loved Ukraine very much, but at least we lived within some kind of legal framework and not chaos," Kazakov said. "We knew how much we needed to pay in order to continue working. There was a kind of stability." The Mejlis, the self-governing body of the Tatars, boldly continued to fly a Ukrainian flag over its headquarters in Simferopol for months after the takeover by Moscow. On Sept. 16, masked men raided the building, hauled down the blue-and-yellow banner, and spent hours searching the premises, which remain under lock and key by Crimean authorities. These days, the newsroom of the privately owned Black Sea Television and Radio Station, which broadcast for 22 years and was critical of the Russian takeover, is also dark, empty and cold. Acting under a court order, bailiffs arrived on the premises Aug. 1, sealed off the building and seized TV cameras, computers and other equipment. Cables were torn out, and electronics worth thousands of dollars were manhandled and trashed, employees say. "After this debacle, we're left with ruins instead of a TV company," said Lyudmila Zhuravleva, Black Sea TV's acting president. "They clearly made it their job to eliminate our company in general so that even later, when we get our property back, we won't be able to function." Grounds for the seizure: a debt of $76,000 claimed by another broadcaster that belongs now to the Crimean government. Court documents show Zhuravleva paid the amount days after the seizure. Despite a judge's order last month in her favor, the company is still waiting to get its property back. Since March, 11 of the 18 functioning parishes of the pro-Kiev branch of the Orthodox Church have been shut. Archbishop Kliment, the denomination's leader in Crimea, said the church lost two locations when the Russians seized military bases from Ukrainian forces, and another three after donors came under duress from authorities. "They started to pressure them, to threaten them, to tell them they would have problems with their businesses," the archbishop said. "And so, to not bring harm to those who helped us for so many years, we willingly gave up those properties." The church's crown jewel in Crimea, the Cathedral of Saints Vladimir and Olga in Simferopol, is also facing closure. For 12 years the church has paid a symbolic rent of 1 Ukrainian hryvnia — less than 7 U.S. cents — a year to rent the building, a former military academy. But the month after Crimea was declared part of Russia, the government said the annual rent for the Cathedral of Saints Vladimir and Olga would be raised to 600,000 hryvnia, or around $38,700, which according to an audit is double the value of the building. Kliment said officials told him they want to boost government revenues, and that there is no reason his church should pay less than the fair-market rate. Laura Mills/APMikhail Sirotyuk speaks to the Associated Press in an interview in Trudovoe, Crimea. Sirotyuk, whose office in the rural village of Trudovoe is decorated with two portraits of Putin and three religious icons, has changed the locks out of fear of what might happen next. For losers in Crimea's great property grab, there is often no redress. In April, Trans-Bud, a construction and transport company, delivered 54 vehicles, from excavators to dump trucks, to a Simferopol-based firm, Krymsky Passazh. But the customer never paid the $5.2 million bill, and the equipment is now in the hands of camouflage-clad self-defense forces. The AP contacted Krymsky Passazh three times, but each time a woman hung up when questioned about the equipment deal. Trans-Bud took the matter to the police, company director Vadim Padalko said. Padalko and an investigator drove to the scene, where an armed guard put the policeman on the phone with his boss. "On the way back he (the investigator) asked me: 'Why didn't you tell me this was going to be nationalized?' " Padalko told AP. "I said, 'What is being nationalized? This is private property!' By the time we were back (at the police station) they had decided that no crime could be established." Ukrainian tax registers show Krymsky Passazh was co-founded by the sister of a Simferopol City Council member. "On the local level nothing is going to happen," Padalko said. "The prosecutor's office is controlled; the police are controlled. Everything is done with a phone call. It's utter lawlessness." Mikhail Sirotyuk has had no greater success in getting police or government officials to react to the loss of his poultry farm, seized by a would-be business partner and a half-dozen men in April. The farm's 50,000 quail are still producing meat and eggs, but their owner isn't making any money from them, and hasn't been allowed back on his property. Sirotyuk, whose office in the rural village of Trudovoe is decorated with portraits of Putin and religious icons, has changed the locks out of fear of what may happen next. One man who took part in the farm's seizure, he said, was recently elected to a nearby village council on behalf of Aksyonov's political party. "I'm not against United Russia, but I can't be quiet when he's raiding my business," Sirotyuk said. Some owners have gone to court but found it fruitless — especially in dealing with the self-defense forces that have carried out many seizures. A bill introduced in Russia's parliament would also exonerate the armed men for crimes committed from the period of Crimea's annexation through early 2015. "The problem is, who am I supposed to sue?" said Garfner, the lawyer for Dobrobut. "There is some Ivan Ivanovich Pupkin on the property, but we don't know whether he is actually Pupkin. We try to sue Pupkin, but that turns out to be somebody else who was sleeping at home the whole time. We can sue people every day in bunches, but who?" Officials at Krymavtotrans, the bus company, said they went straight to the top, sending repeated letters to the offices of Putin and Russian Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev. The reported result to date: nothing. "I had counted on an immediate reaction from the federal authorities, and instead there has been no reaction at all," said Zapruta, the company's lawyer. The Russian Ministry of Crimea told AP it has received no complaints from local businesses. For many in Crimea, euphoria over union with Russia has ebbed, and the property grab is one reason. Food prices have also surged, the inflow of tourists to the Black Sea peninsula's beaches, spas and hotels has flagged, and the hoped-for flood of investment from Russia has yet to happen. Serhii Kostynskyi, a former Crimea-based businessman, journalist, and analyst, is one of the many thousands who have left to live and work in mainland Ukraine. He likens present-day Crimea to a town captured by an army and handed over to the victorious soldiers to loot. "It's a total policy of banditry," said Kostynskyi, citing a term from the Russian underworld: bespredel, or utter lawlessness. The nationalizations may be only an initial stage. In October, Crimea's legislature adopted another law that empowers local leaders to sell off government property. Legislator Yevgeniya Dobrynya said in a statement the goal is refilling Crimea's coffers, and attracting investors to put "significant money" into the economy. Mitrokhin, the leader of Russia's Yabloko party, accused Crimean leaders of engineering a scheme to put nationalized assets into their own hands via straw buyers. A month after issuing a public letter to the Russian prosecutor's office asking them to halt the nationalizations, he told the AP he had obtained no response. The attorney for a labor union whose property holdings in many Crimean cities have been threatened with nationalization said people here are living in legal limbo. "It's a circus — everything is up in the air," said the lawyer, who requested anonymity out of fear of official reprisal. When Crimea joined Russia, she added, "nobody understood that." Aksyonov denied any legitimate owner or business person had been hurt in the property seizures. "There is not a single person who today has suffered any harm," he told AP. But at Yalta Studios, they tell a different story. They managed to get the armed men to quit the premises in late October, but haven't been able to register yet as a Russian company. Without that status, they can't legally remain in business after Jan. 1. The owners told AP they've plowed $16 million into the studio since becoming sole proprietors in 2004. As compensation for the sets, cameras and lighting equipment, costumes and props and other lost property, they say they've been offered $1 million. A studio employee, who spoke on condition of anonymity out of fear of official reprisal, said he doubts they'll get anything from Crimean authorities in the end."It's a robbery," the employee said, "pure and simple." --- AP Interactive: http://hosted.ap.org/interactives/2014/crimea/ Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Steve SisneyOil tycoon Harold Hamm. Hamm is the CEO and founder of Continental Resources, an exploration company that owns 1 million acres in North Dakota's Bakken oil field. According to Bloomberg, Hamm has seen the value of his shares in the company fall by more than $12 billion since August. Hamm, who is the largest shareholder of Continental, is hardly in poor house. The oil baron still has an estimated net worth of $11.1 billion, according to the latest figures from Bloomberg's Billionaires Index. As oil prices continue to slide, Hamm told Bloomberg that a slowdown in US shale production was unavoidable: 'Will this industry slow down? Certainly,' Hamm said yesterday in a telephone interview. 'Nobody's going to go out there and drill areas, exploration areas and other areas, at a loss. They'll pull back and won't drill it until the price recovers. That's the way it ought to be.' Meanwhile, November was the strongest month in nearly 30 years for US crude oil output. US oil fields produced 8,864 barrels per day last month, the highest average since May 1986. Hamm added that shale producers in Texas and North Dakota would not be as hard hit by falling prices as some oil-producing nations, like Venezuela and Iran. 'We can adjust quickly,' he said. 'It's a lot easier to adjust companies than it is for countries to adjust. When you’ve got people starving or social policies within countries that people are used to, it's hard to adjust those ... 'This is a bump in the road, a correction, an adjustment that we're going through right now,' Hamm said. People 'need to calm down, take the long view and there's certainly no need to panic at this point or any point.' This isn't the only blow to Hamm's personal fortune this year. In November, the oil tycoon was ordered to pay his ex-wife Sue Ann nearly $1 billion after ending a 26-year marriage.   FREE AppDownload
 REUTERS/Darrin Zammit LupiThe decline in the price of oil, Western economic sanctions against the nation following its invasion of Ukraine, and the collapse of the Russian rouble that resulted, has decimated Russia's economy. Now Russian GDP has shrunk so much it is no longer the world's eighth largest economic power, according to The Telegraph. Instead, Putin's Russia is now carries roughly the same economic weight as ... Spain: Russia has lost its ranking as the world’s eighth biggest economy, shrinking in just nine months from a $2.1 trillion petro-giant to a mid-size player comparable with Korea or Spain. For the past several years, Spain has been regarded as one of Europe's more feeble economies, with 1 in 4 Spaniards unemployed. Spain's GDP was about $1.4 trillion in 2013, according to the World Bank.  Spain was the 13th biggest economy on the planet until Putin ordered tanks into the Crimea. Now it is likely that Italy, India, Canada, and Australia are all more economically significant than Russia. Here was the World Bank's GDP ranking for 2013, before Russia went into its current crisis. The numbers are in billions of US dollars: (European Union     17,350,853)1 United States     16,800,0002 China     9,240,2703 Japan     4,901,530 4 Germany     3,634,8235 France     2,734,9496 UK       2,521,3817 Brazil     2,245,6738 Russia     2,096,7779 Italy      2,071,307 10 India     1,876,797 11 Canada     1,826,76912 Australia     1,560,597 13 Spain     1,358,263 14 S Korea     1,304,554 15 Mexico     1,260,915 It's not clear what Russia's GDP equivalent is right now because the decline of the rouble has been so swift and volatile that the calculation needs to be done anew every day. On Monday the rouble experienced its largest one-day flop since the 1998 Russian crisis. Of course, this may all be temporary. The price of oil has sunk to just above $68 a barrell (for WTI), dragging the oil-dependent Russian economy with it. If the price perks up, Russia can expect to make its way back up the GDP charts. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersPedestrians walk past an Aviva logo outside the company's head office in the city of LondonLONDON (Reuters) - British insurer Aviva &lt;AV.L&gt; agreed terms for a 5.6 billion pounds ($8.8 billion) takeover of rival Friends Life &lt;FLG.L&gt; in all share deal which creates a market leader with 16 million life insurance customers. Analysts said the cost savings from the combination were higher than expected but would take several years to be achieved. Aviva said the merged company is expected to generate 600 million pounds in excess cash flow a year and about 225 million pounds in annual cost savings by the end of 2017. Andy Briggs, current group chief executive of Friends Life, will become CEO of Aviva UK Life, with Mark Wilson continuing as CEO of the enlarged Aviva Group. Wilson told a conference call there would likely be job losses but would not give an estimate. The merger has the backing of Clive Cowdery, who founded Friends Life in 2008 when it was known as Resolution. Holders of Friends Life shares will receive 0.74 new Aviva shares, valuing the company at 5.6 billion pounds, unchanged from their announcement of a planned merger on Nov. 24. Friends Life shareholders will also receive a second interim dividend of 24.1 pence per share. Avivasaid it proposes to pay a final dividend of 12.25 pence for 2014, up 30 percent on last year. In opening trade on the London Stock Exchange, shares in Aviva were up 1.3 percent at 506 pence, while Friends Life were up 2.8 percent at 376 pence. Eamonn Flanagan, an analyst at Shore Capital, reiterated a "sell" recommendation on Aviva, saying the deal is a "rights issue in disguise" that does little for strategic positioning at Aviva. "We remain puzzled why Aviva felt the need to do it now. Is it a camouflage for issues within its own internal restructuring and turnaround story?" Flanagan said.   (Reporting by Huw Jones and Carolyn Cohn; editing by Jason Neely/Keith Weir) FREE AppDownload
Oil prices are dipping a little after a significant rally during US trading hours yesterday. Brent crude rose by more than $1 on early Tuesday morning, peaking at $72.96 at 9 a.m. GMT. It has slowed down since, and it is currently trading at $72.15 (-0.54%). Here it is a little earlier Investing.com Yesterday Brent crude had risen by up to $5.22, up from a trough of $67.72 to $72.94 in just a day, gaining back some ground after several sessions in which the price tumbled, following the OPEC decision not to cut production on 27 November. The WTI crude index also fell to its lowest level since 2009, but yesterday WTI rallied during US trading hours. This morning WTI is trading at $68.31, down 1% from its daily peak at $69, but still a good $5 higher than the depth sit was trading early Monday. FinViz.com Business Insider's Myles Udland noted that some volatility should be expected when the price is adjusting so much: "While the price of oil went straight down over the last two days, it isn't going to straight down over a period of weeks or months. So, some bounces are to be expected." Oil has lost a third of its value since a slide in prices began this summer. FREE AppDownload
Pool/Getty ImagesRussian President Vladimir Putin. The net amount of foreign capital expected to flow out of the country in 2014 has been revised sharply upward to $125 billion (up from $100 billion), while the projection of net outflows for next year has also been increased, to $90 billion from $50 billion. The independent Russian news agency Interfax reports Deputy Economic Development Minister Alexei Vedev as saying that the downgrade reflects the decrease in the forecast average price of Urals crude next year from $100 a barrel to $80 a barrel. Russia relies on the oil and gas sector for 10% of its GDP and about 50% of its government budget. However, since June global oil prices have been in free fall, with Brent falling from a June high of about $115 a barrel to just over $72 a barrel on Tuesday. The majority of forecasters now suggest that it will remain under $100 a barrel through 2016. These concerns have helped drive capital out of the country and force down the value of the Russian ruble against other major currencies. Indeed, the ruble has closely tracked the collapsing oil price over the past six months: Bloomberg.comRuble (orange) versus Brent oil price (green). Despite a modest rally in early trading Tuesday, as further falls in oil prices compounded, news of the downgrade sent the currency tumbling by more than 4% to almost 54 rubles to the dollar at the time of writing. BloombergDollar versus the rouble. The falling value of the currency poses a significant threat to Russian businesses, which are due to spend about $35 billion in foreign-debt repayments this month and over $100 billion next year. As Timothy Ash of Standard Bank put it Monday: "I would think that many entities will be struggling with debt service costs on FX loans at these levels for the ruble."    FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA shadow of a man using his mobile phone is cast near Microsoft logo at the 2014 Computex exhibition in TaipeiSHANGHAI (Reuters) - China will toughen its stance on tax avoidance by foreign firms to prevent tax payments being directed overseas, the official Xinhua news agency has said, after Beijing levied $140 million in back taxes from U.S. firm Microsoft Corp &lt;msft.o&gt; last week. Beijing will closely monitor the profit levels of foreign firms operating in China to ensure companies do not shift profits to other regions where taxes are lower, a practice known as "base erosion and profit shifting" (BEPS), the Xinhua report late on Monday said. China is cracking down on business practices by overseas firms in China, with a series of probes by anti-trust regulators prompting business lobbies to say multinational firms were being singled out by Beijing. Xinhua reported last week that a U.S. company whose name starts with "M" must pay the Chinese government 840 million yuan ($137 million) in back taxes and interest, as well as more than 100 million yuan in additional taxes a year in the future. The report said the firm was one of the world's 500 biggest firms and had established a wholly owned foreign subsidiary in Beijing in 1995. Microsoft, which did not deny its involvement, is the only company that fits that description. "China will coordinate with other countries to clamp down on BEPS plotting and cross-border tax avoidance," Zhang Zhiyong, deputy director of the State Administration of Taxation, told Xinhua. Chinese President Xi Jinping and other G20 country leaders pledged to increase efforts to prevent tax avoidance last month. China is the largest country for foreign direct investment but this fell for the fourth straight period on a cumulative basis in October, underscoring investor caution as the world's second-largest economy cools. (Reporting by Adam Jourdan; Editing by Paul Tait) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Wolfgang RattayFireworks illuminate the Brandenburg Gate in Berlin November 9, 2009, during celebrations to mark the 20th anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall. Germany's DAX just climbed above 10,000 for the first time in nearly six months, ahead of a major ECB decision on monetary policy this Thursday. Here's the scorecard: France's CAC 40: +0.75% Germany's DAX: +0.65% UK's FTSE 100: +0.66% Spain's IBEX: +0.33% Italy's FTSE MIB: +0.62% Asian markets closed up too. Japan's Nikkei finished 0.42% and Hong Kong's Hang Seng climbed 1.23% from Monday's drop. US futures are up too: the S&amp;P is 4.25 points higher and the Dow is up 42 points ahead of Tuesday's opening. It's a light day for data but several senior Federal Reserve figures are giving speeches later: watch out for news lines from chair Janet Yellen, Stanley Fischer and Lael Brainard, which could give some indication as to the Fed's current stance.  FREE AppDownload
Good morning! Here's what you need to know for Tuesday. 1. Russia has dropped its $40 billion South Stream gas pipeline, which would have run under the Black Sea to central Europe, due to plummeting energy prices.  2. The three original founders of Hong Kong's pro-democracy demonstrations announced on Tuesday they would surrender by turning themselves into the police.  3. Islamist terrorist group Boko Haram attacked two state capitals in northern Nigeria on Monday, including a suicide bombing at a crowded market. 4. The World Bank said Tuesday that the fallout from the the Ebola virus will send Guinea and Sierra Leone into recession next year. 5. Oil company TransCanada has halted the construction of a terminal on a major pipeline along the St. Lawrence River after identifying a nearby population of endangered beluga whales. 6. A new map of the universe when it was 380,000 years old provides new information about dark matter. 7. British insurer Aviva has agreed to a £5.6 billion takeover of Friends Life, which will create the UK's largest insurance, savings, and asset management firm, the BBC reports.  8. A new study has revealed that the majority of students at American public colleges do not graduate on time. 9. Hawaii has identified the first outbreak of a deadly pig virus, Porcine Epidemic Diarrhoea, that emerged in the continental US last year. 10. The Lufthansa pilot strike, now in its second day and the ninth this year, has extended to long-haul and cargo flights in addition to domestic and European routes. And finally ... The world's largest animal sacrifice began last weekend in southern Nepal and the pictures are unbelievable.  FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Koji SasaharaJapanese prime minister Shinzo Abe, who is running for re-election.Japanese prime minister Shinzo Abe had a pretty bad day on Monday: Standard &amp; Poor's and Moody's, two of the world's most important credit rating agencies, rounded on him. Moody's downgraded Japan because it doesn't believe the country's public finances are sustainable, and S&amp;P said they don't expect to get a proper deficit reduction plan from the government. Trading on Tuesday saw a rise in Japanese 10-year bond yields. Bond yields are used as a common measure of how much it costs a government to service its debt, and how sustainable its public finances are. A spike is what you'd expect if investors were losing faith in the government.  Even though yields rose by 1.17%, that barely registered for one simple reason: Japanese yields are already the world's lowest. Yesterday's jump raised yields from 0.42% to 0.43%. It was a 1.17% increase on paper, but a 1.17% increase on such a tiny figure is a similarly tiny increase. Here's how yields look over the last five years:  Investing.com, Business Insider In fact, Japan's 5-year bond yields just touched a record low on Tuesday, according to Bloomberg. Investors seem to be betting on the fact that, whatever the sustainability of Japan's public finances, for the foreseeable future the Bank of Japan will be buying government bonds (QE) like it's going out of fashion. When they do that, it drives up prices and drives down yields, and there's no end in sight for the country's massive QE programme.  Chris Scicluna at Daiwa Capital Markets took a similar view in a note this morning: We considered yesterday’s Moody’s downgrade of Japan’s sovereign rating to be incoherent, admonishing Abe for his proposal to postpone next year’s consumption tax hike while grudgingly acknowledging that his strategy "could have merits". And today, Japan’s markets responded to the announcement with a collective shrug from domestic investors Bank of Japan 1 - Credit ratings agencies 0. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Toru HanaiJapan's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe bows at the end of a news conference at his official residence in Tokyo June 26, 2013TOKYO (Reuters) - Standard &amp; Poor's cast doubt on Japan Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's ability to repair the country's tattered finances, a day after Moody's tarnished the government's economic record less than two weeks away from a major election. Abe's decision to delay a sales tax increase by 18 months may help the economy in the short term, but there is still no guarantee taxes will rise because the political dynamic could change after the election, Takahira Ogawa, director of sovereign ratings at S&amp;P, told Reuters. The growing reservations about Japan come at an awkward time for Abe as he has called an election on Dec. 14 that has become a vote on whether he has done enough to fundamentally improve the prospects for growth. "I might be wrong, but judging by history I'm not optimistic about getting a detailed fiscal plan," Ogawa said. "In addition, if the government fails to implement its plan, then it doesn't make any sense." S&amp;P has an AA- rating on Japan, which is three notches from the top rating of AAA. S&amp;P's rating on Japan has a negative outlook, meaning a downgrade is possible. Ogawa, when asked, declined to confirm if he was reviewing Japan's current rating for a possible downgrade. Moody's Investors Service on Monday downgraded Japan to A1, one notch below S&amp;P's rating, citing rising uncertainty over the country's ability to hit its deficit-reduction goal. Abe's decision to delay a sales tax hike to 10 percent from 8 percent may prove popular with voters, but some economists say it is now impossible to reduce the primary budget deficit in fiscal 2020, an important fiscal consolidation target. The primary budget deficit excludes debt servicing costs and income from bond sales. Even without the delay, the government is not doing enough to correct the structural problems that make it difficult to reduce debt, such as low growth, a shrinking population and rising welfare spending, Ogawa said. "As long as Japan's economy doesn't grow, fiscal problems will not be solved," he said. "There is still a lot more to do on the growth side." Some economists also worry the Bank of Japan's purchases of government debt via its quantitative easing could make the government complacent on fiscal policy because yields are kept very low, or in some cases even go into negative territory. The bond market has largely shrugged off Monday's downgrade by Moody's, and stable moves in financial markets show the BOJ's monetary policy is not a concern now, S&amp;P's Ogawa said. Japan's economy unexpectedly slipped into recession in the third quarter, nearly two years after Abe returned to power promising to revive the economy with his "Abernomics" mix of massive monetary stimulus, spending and reforms. (Editing by Chris Gallagher and Jacqueline Wong) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersRussia's President Putin attends a news conference in Ankara SINGAPORE/LONDON (Reuters) - Russia's $40 billion South Stream gas pipeline project has fallen victim to plunging energy prices, stalling European demand and the political standoff between the European Union and Moscow over the crisis in Ukraine. Russia on Monday said it had scrapped the project to supply gas to Europe without crossing Ukraine, citing EU objections, and named Turkey as its preferred partner. South Stream planned to supply 63 billion cubic meters (bcm) of natural gas a year, equivalent to more than 10 percent of European demand, from Russia via the Black Sea into the EU toward the end of this decade, cementing Russia's role as the region's dominant supplier. But it came under increasing fire this year. The crisis over Ukraine led to Brussels freezing its approval process, and the pipeline also hit trouble over weak European gas demand and energy prices, undermining its economics. "I think the likelihood of South Stream being built is now is close to zero," said Pierre Noel, senior fellow for economic and energy security for International Institute for Strategic Studies (IISS). South Stream would need to be marketed at an equivalent of $9.50-$11.50 per million British thermal unit (mmBtu), including a 30 percent export duty, estimates have shown. The average European spot gas prices have ranged between $6-$9 per mmBtu this year. "Decreasing oil-indexed prices for gas and lower sales are likely to drive Gazprom to the red this year," said Mikhail Korchemkin of East European Gas Analysis, forcing the firm to reduce its investment program. Russian state-controlled Gazprom sells most of its gas under oil-linked contracts. With oil prices tumbling 40 percent since June and European gas demand down 10 percent since 2010, Gazprom's gas revenues have plunged. "Cancellation of the project can reduce Gazprom's negative cash flow in 2014-2017", Korchemkin added. Gazprom meets almost a third of Europe's demand, which in turn makes up 80 percent of its revenues. "It (scrapping South Stream) reflects internal Russian pressure on where it is going to invest limited resources at a point in time when sanctions are hitting," said Carlos Pascual, a fellow at Columbia University's Center on Global Energy Policy, referring to Western sanctions over Ukraine. "It's harder, more expensive to access capital and the fastest growing gas markets in the world are in Asia, and Russia has virtually no export capacity to the Asian market," he added. Wikipedia The announcement on scrapping South Stream came during a visit by Russian President Vladimir Putin and Gazprom chief executive, Alexei Miller, to Turkey, during which Putin proposed building it to Turkey instead, offering its gas at a discount. "I don't think Putin is bluffing. I think he's really adapting to a fundamentally new geopolitical situation in Europe," the IISS' Noel said. Yet the notion of running South Stream to non-EU member Turkey is not new and is seen by some as a political ploy by Russia to win the support of those EU members in favor of the pipeline. South Stream exposed cracks in EU strategy as Hungary, Austria, Serbia and Bulgaria among others saw it as a solution to the risk of supply disruptions via Ukraine, which have occurred three times during the last decade. Brussels, on the other hand, saw it as entrenching Moscow's energy stranglehold on Europe. "The alternative to Turkey is even more doubtful than the direct option to Europe," one financial adviser who has dealt with the matter said on condition of anonymity. The gas discount offered to Turkey casts further doubt over a project that was already economically doubtful, and would be far too big for Turkey alone to receive all the gas, supplying four times its annual demand. "Even if it went to Turkey, most of its gas would end up in Europe, so it begs the question why introduce a transit risk instead of attempting to solve Russia-EU differences and run it directly to Europe as initially planned," the adviser added. (Additional reporting by Timothy Gardner in WASHINGTON and Jacob Gronholt-Pedersen in SINGAPORE; Editing by Ed Davies) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe Canary Wharf financial district is seen in east LondonLONDON (Reuters) - The global banking industry has moved beyond recovery and regained overall profit for the first time since the financial crisis, although European lenders are still lagging far behind rivals, an industry study showed. "Banks in North America are again growing and showing sizable economic profit, while those in Europe show little sign of recovery," Boston Consulting Group (BCG) said in its Global Risk 2014/15 report, released on Tuesday. Economic profit (EP) is a measure of profitability that includes refinancing, operating and risk costs against income. Banks generated an EP of 18 billion euros ($22.5 billion) in 2013, or 3 basis points of total assets, compared with negative EP of between 6 and 23 basis points in the previous four years, BCG said. Its latest study was based on more than 300 banks, representing over 80 percent of global bank assets. Banks in North America produced an economic profit of 25 billion euros, and profitability also improved in the Middle East and Africa. The study said banks in Asia-Pacific produced the biggest EP of 112 billion euros, near flat from 2012. Banks in Europe delivered negative EP of 136 billion euros last year, from negative 161 billion in 2012, to take their losses since 2009 to 600 billion euros, the study said. Eurozone banks have been slow to rebuild their capital strength and restructure against a difficult economic backdrop. Improving their profitability is their biggest challenge and they may need to sell off more loss-making units, the euro bloc's top banking supervisor said on Friday. BGC's report said banks are entering a new era of regulation in which every region, product and legal entity will be closely regulated, reflecting regulators' intent to trigger cultural change. "Banks should adopt a 'good citizen' approach that embraces and proactively addresses the broad intent of today's hyper-regulation."  (Reporting by Steve Slater; Editing by Mark Heinrich) FREE AppDownload
