Thomson ReutersA view shows people visiting different booths at the Guandong Import and Export Fair in GuangzhouBEIJING (Reuters) - China's exports rose an above-forecast 11.6 percent in October from a year earlier, while imports rose 4.6 percent, leaving the country with a trade surplus of $45.4 billion for the month, the General Administration of Customs said on Saturday. The figures compared with market expectations in a Reuters poll of a 10.6 percent rise in exports, a 5.5 percent increase in imports and a trade surplus of $42 billion. September's surprisingly strong export growth of 15.3 percent led some analysts to question the accuracy of the official numbers amid signs a resurgence of speculative currency flows through inflated trade receipts. Annual growth in the world's second-largest economy slowed to 7.3 percent in the third quarter - the weakest since the height of the global financial crisis - as a cooling property sector weighs on domestic demand.   (Reporting by Kevin Yao; Editing by Nick Macfie) FREE AppDownload
Michael McDonough/BloombergTexas is massive. If the Lone Star State were its own country, it would have the 13th highest GDP in the world.  Over the last 20 years, Texas has become an increasingly important part of the US economy. In 1995, it made up around 6.5% of the total US GDP, and by 2014 it was over 9% (See chart). A huge part of that growth has been attributed to Texas' bustling energy businesses. That's why the latest dropping oil prices have rattled a few nerves. Although lower gas prices are great for the average US consumer, they could mean trouble for Texas' economy. And consequently, for the larger US economy as well. With Texas in focus, let's take a quick look at what makes this major economy tick. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange shortly after the markets open in New YorkNEW YORK (Reuters) - With the U.S. third-quarter earnings season almost at an end, many investors are breathing a sigh of relief as more companies surpassed profit expectations than in any quarter since 2010. But some analysts say investors may be brushing off their worries about corporate profits a little too soon. While most Standard &amp; Poor's 500 companies beat analysts' expectations for third-quarter earnings, many just barely topped estimates, said Pankaj Patel, head of quantitative research at Evercore ISI in New York. Of the S&amp;P 500 companies that had reported results as of early this week, 66 percent exceeded expectations, according to Evercore's data analysis. But that figure falls to just 43 percent after stripping away companies that beat expectations by 5 percent or less, Patel's research shows. The figure excluding beats of 5 percent or less is also well below the percentage of beats according to data based on Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S polls of analysts. On that data, 74 percent of S&amp;P 500 companies so far have exceeded analysts' expectations, which is the highest for any quarter since the second quarter of 2010. Results have come in from 88 percent of the S&amp;P 500. The results could mean that an increasing number of companies are trying to "manage their beat rate," possibly to mask profit weakness, Patel said, noting that companies that exceed expectations by 5 percent or less typically see their share prices decline in the three days following results. "The beat rate is artificially high, but people still watch that percent," Patel said. "They keep buying and the market goes higher." The S&amp;P 500 has risen more than 3 percent since Oct. 8, roughly when this earnings season began. The index is up 9.1 percent from its Oct. 15 low. In addition, analysts' keep trimming their profit forecasts. Estimates for fourth-quarter earnings are down from the start of the quarter, along with estimates for the first part of 2015. Earnings growth for the fourth quarter now is estimated at 7.6 percent compared with an Oct. 1 forecast for 11.1 percent growth, Thomson Reuters data showed. For the 2015 first quarter, profit growth is seen at 8.8 percent, down from an Oct. 1 forecast for 11.5 percent growth. Moreover, the magnitude by which fourth-quarter estimates are falling has increased compared with the previous quarter, said Nick Raich, chief executive officer of The Earnings Scout, a Cleveland-based independent research firm specializing in earnings trends. In outlooks given by companies themselves - done by only a minority of companies - the news is not good. Negative outlooks outnumber positive ones for the fourth quarter so far by a ratio of 3.9 to 1, up from the third quarter's ratio of 3.3 to 1, Thomson Reuters data showed. "That's a worsening trend," Raich said. "The outlooks have gotten a little bit worse this quarter." Outlooks could become even dimmer if lackluster demand overseas translates into weak results for the fourth quarter. "The United States clearly is the bright spot in the world," said Uri Landesman, president of Platinum Partners in New York. "The rest of the world isn't nearly as strong, so demand coming from certain places is weaker, and the currency is going to have an enormous impact going forward."   (Reporting by Caroline Valetkevitch; Editing by Leslie Adler) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTexas investor Wyly exits Manhattan Federal Court in this file photographNEW YORK (Reuters) - The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission will ask a federal judge to more than double the money Texas businessman Sam Wyly must pay from $200 million to $455 million for his involvement in an offshore fraud scheme, a lawyer for Wyly said on Friday. U.S. District Judge Shira Scheindlin in New York has already ordered Wyly and the estate of his late brother Charles to pay $187.7 million plus interest to the SEC, which the regulator has said should total just under $300 million. Sam Wyly, 80, who last appeared on Forbes' list of the 400 richest Americans in 2010 with a net worth of $1 billion, is responsible for around two-thirds of damages and has filed for bankruptcy in Dallas, saying he cannot afford the SEC's claim as well as potential tax claims from the Internal Revenue Service. Scheindlin will preside over a hearing Wednesday at which the SEC will have an opportunity to convince her that the damages should be even higher. During a hearing in Dallas bankruptcy court on Friday, Terrell Oxford, a lawyer for Wyly, said in written testimony read in court that the SEC is expected to seek $195 million plus interest from Sam Wyly, for a total of approximately $455 million. The SEC is likely to ask that Scheindlin increase the award against Charles Wyly's estate, as well. Meanwhile, lawyers for Wyly also disclosed at the hearing that preliminary settlement talks involving the Wyly family, the SEC and the IRS had taken place earlier on Friday. "We began to get to know each other," said Josiah Daniel, another Wyly lawyer, adding that the parties discussed "in broad strokes" how a resolution might be reached through the bankruptcy proceeding. A spokesman for the SEC did not immediately respond to a request for comment. The SEC's case is centered on a system of trusts in the Isle of Man that the regulator said netted the brothers $553 million in untaxed profits over a decade of hidden trades in four companies they controlled. The companies included Sterling Software Inc, Michaels Stores Inc [MSII.UL], Sterling Commerce Inc and Scottish Annuity &amp; Life Holdings Ltd, now Scottish Re Group Ltd &lt;skruf.pk&gt;. Charles Wyly died in 2011, a year after the SEC sued, and his estate was substituted as a defendant. His widow, Caroline, has filed for bankruptcy as well, citing the SEC claim. A jury found the Wylys liable for fraud earlier this year, leading to Scheindlin's damages ruling in September. The SEC and the Wylys, including their children and grandchildren who are beneficiaries of the offshore trusts, have clashed on whether the regulator is entitled to tap into the hundreds of millions of dollars held offshore. Sam Wyly's bankruptcy lawyer has said Wyly may be willing to repatriate the money held in the trusts as part of the bankruptcy proceeding in an effort to settle the SEC and IRS claims. The bankruptcy case is In re Samuel E. Wyly, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Texas, No. 14-35043. The SEC case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v. Wyly et al, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York, 10-5760.   (Reporting by Joseph Ax; Editing by Diane Craft) FREE AppDownload
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Wall Street's biggest banks remain convinced the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates by June 2015, a Reuters poll found, and economists also said the market was underestimating how aggressively the U.S. central bank will tighten policy. Fourteen of 19 primary dealers, or the banks that deal directly with the Fed, said they expect the first rate hike by June 2015, with borrowing costs rising to 1 percent at the end of that year. The survey results show that Wall Street's top economists were unmoved by a volatile sell-off last month and an October Fed statement that was viewed as hawkish. In a survey taken in early October, 15 of 19 primary dealers also said the Fed would raise interest rates in June. Even in a separate survey done after stocks tumbled in a volatile week of trading last month, 24 of 47 economists still predicted a June rate hike. The latest view, that the Fed would raise rates in seven months, comes after a strong October jobs report on Friday. The U.S. economy added 214,000 jobs in October, the Labor Department said, and the unemployment rate fell to a six-year low at 5.8 percent even as more people entered the labor force, a sign of a strengthening and resilient economy. Eleven of 14 economists at these dealers also said the Fed will increase rates more aggressively than traders in the bond markets were pricing in U.S. short-term interest rates futures Friday. Fed funds futures contracts on Friday suggested traders were pricing in a 34 percent probability of a rate hike for June 2015 and a 63 percent probability in September 2015. All but three of the 22 primary dealers participated in the latest survey. The market selloff last month pushed some measures of U.S. inflation lower, prompting investors to push back expectations of the first Fed rate increase to late in 2015 and even into 2016. But markets quickly recovered and, last week, the central bank issued a confident-sounding policy statement following its October meeting that expressed confidence in the U.S. economic recovery even as concerns mount over weak global growth. It also said underutilization of labor market resources was "gradually diminishing." "The further drop in the unemployment rate does put a bit of pressure on (the Fed)," said UBS Securities economist Samuel Coffin. "It's pretty clear their change in tone on the labor market is coming a bit true - there is less slack." The median forecast of 18 dealers for the federal funds rate at the end of next year was 1 percent, compared with the median forecast of Fed policymakers of 1.38 percent, according to projections from the central bank's October meeting. The median forecast of 14 dealers for the federal funds rate at the end of 2016 was 2.5 percent, compared with policymakers' median forecast of 2.88 percent. By the end of 2017, 10 primary dealers projected a median federal funds rate of 3.5 percent, while policymakers' median forecast was 3.75 percent. Since December 2008, the Fed has targeted a range of zero to 0.25 percent for its key funds rate.   (Additional reporting by Rodrigo Campos, Daniel Bases, Gertrude Chavez-Dreyfuss, Richard Leong in New York; Sarmista Sen and Ashrith Doddi in Bangalore; Editing by Lisa Shumaker) FREE AppDownload
Flickr There Are Four Big Changes Coming That Might Tank The Global Economy (Wealth Management) The global economy is going to change drastically over the next several years, and no one is prepared for the changes. First, technology is evolving at an unprecedented pace, and, as a result, robots will be replacing 100 million young people's jobs.  Second, demographics are changing. Americans are getting older (meaning there will be fewer quality workers in the population), while emerging markets are overwhelmingly young — 60% to 70% of EM populations are under age 25. Third, income inequality is getting worse. And, finally, natural resources (including water, minerals, oil, and energy) are shrinking, as is arable land. "There's been talk of a global depression before, but this time is different ... [these are] four headwinds that the world hasn't dealt with previously. And many policymakers don't have the fiscal or monetary tools to deal with these," writes Diana Britton. Japan's Suddenly Looking Good (Advisor Perspectives) Recently, the Bank of Japan announced that it would increase its monetary target by 80 trillion yen and will purchase stock assets. That's up from what the bank had said in the past — before its target was 60 to 70 trillion yen per year. Additionally, the BOJ is thinking about buying ETFs that track the Nikkei Index 400. On top of that, Japan's Government Pension Investment Fund (GPIF) has a new target asset mix. As a result, "the allocation to Japanese stocks has risen to 25% from 12%" and the allocation to non-Japanese equities has also doubled which might provide a "boost to the global equity markets," writes Nick Niziolek. Right now, export-oriented Japanese companies "positioned to benefit from asset reflation" are looking good. However, given the weaker yen and increasing taxes, it may be wise to stay cautious on companies that are "tied to the Japanese consumer," writes Niziolek. The President Of A $1.3 Billion Advisory Firm Credits His Success To His Days As A Reporter (Financial Planning) Larry Elkin spent eight years as a reporter for the Associated Press — today he's the president of a $1.3 billion advisory firm. Interestingly, he credits "communication skills he honed as a reporter" for his success in the financial-advisory business. "Look at the job description. You need to figure out what somebody wants or needs to know; gather the information and communicate it accurately and clearly so they can use it. It's exactly the same for both professions." He adds that there is one difference between being a reporter and a financial adviser: the audience. Reporters have to know how to communicate information to a mass audience of strangers, while advisers have a small audience with whom one is well acquainted, says Elkin. The Consumer Discretionary Sector Is Starting To Wobble As People Are Getting Nervous About The Economy (Charles Schwab) The consumer discretionary sector — which includes the nonessentials like hotels, restaurants, cars, luxury goods — tends to outperform the market when the economy begins to recover, and starts to wobble as people begin to get nervous about the economy. Basically, when people start worrying about finances, they are less inclined to splurge on the nonessentials. On top of that, people are worried about the upcoming Fed rate hikes, ongoing geopolitical tensions, and the sluggishness of the housing recovery. All these factors may contribute to a continued decrease of the consumer discretionary sector. Although it's more "muted," all hope is not lost. "Consumers have reduced their debt loads, the job market still appears to be picking up and we are starting to finally see some signs of wage growth, particularly among professionals," so people will still be buying from the sector, writes Brad Sorenson. Schorsch Brokerage Doesn't Want Its Advisers To Recommend Its Stock (The Wall Street Journal) "Real-estate investor Nicholas Schorsch's broker-dealer, Cetera Financial Group, has told its 9,200 financial advisers to restrict their sales to clients of stock in parent company RCS Capital Corp. and in American Realty Capital Properties, both of which are chaired by Mr. Schorsch," reports Michael Wursthorn. Recently, both companies revealed "accounting irregularities," which has led to shares of both companies to nosedive. Originally, the two companies had a deal in place, but last week it fell through. Two executives were forced to resign from one company, and federal prosecutors are now investigating the matter. There is a feud between the two companies resulting from the failed deal.     FREE AppDownload
A group of tourists on a fishing boat in Cabo San Lucas were surprised by a sea lion that started chasing their boat and then jumped on deck.  Video courtesy of ViralHog.com/Tony Pescho Produced by Devan Joseph and Sam Rega  
Until recently, the last time I drank boxed wine was in college when "slap the bag” was an acceptable party game and everyone’s goal was to get as drunk as possible.  Needless to say my memories of boxed wine were not the best. But on a recent liquor store trip, I was intrigued by a good-looking box of wine. On the side of the box it claimed that it had three liters or four standard bottles-worth of wine, and that it would keep for over a month. It sounded too good to be true, but my frugal curiosity got the best of me. And it was actually delicious. Aside from the taste, I loved that I could have a casual glass without the pressure to finish an entire bottle. It helped that it cost about $20 for four bottles worth of wine, too. Since then, I’ve tried a variety of boxed wines. Black Box, Wineberry, Bota Box, Trader Joe’s, and more, all with approximately four bottles of wine in a thick food-grade plastic bag. And I’ve learned one really important thing: We should all be drinking more boxed wine. The fact that more people don’t drink boxed wine in America stems from our own cultural biases. Other areas of the world are much more liberal with how they partake: 50% of the wine sold in Australia, Brazil, Sweden, and Norway for example is boxed wine, according to Wines &amp; Vines magazine. The Grape Vine Magazine reported that boxed wine is one of the fastest growing wine segments in the world with sales increasing 20% every year since 2000. And even though boxed wine only accounts for 18% of sales in America, that could all be changing. “The US wine market is growing tremendously and we’re developing a taste for wine,” Steffan Bankier, co-founder and CEO of the boxed wine brand Public House, told Business Insider. “People are starting to put good wine in the box, realizing that there are lots of benefits. Our generation is also rejecting anything that’s overly expensive, wasteful, or bad for the environment.” publichousewine/InstagramPublic House also provides glasses with every box.Even if you’re a wine snob, there are simply too many benefits to ignore the growing market.  First of all, it stores better — and longer — than regular opened wine. After pouring your first glass, boxed wine will stay fresh between six and eight weeks while your average bottle of red or white wine lasts less than a week once it’s been opened. The plastic bag keeps the air out and prevents oxidation until the wine has been dispensed into your glass, unlike a bottle which lets air in immediately after uncorking.  Boxed wine also generates less waste. You don’t have to toss out wine that has gone bad, plus there’s less packaging since four bottles-worth of wine can fit inside one box. The packaging is also more durable than a bottle. Glass is heavy and can easily break, but food-grade plastic and cardboard transport safely and don’t take up much space. Because the packaging is lighter-weight than glass bottles, when the wine travels across the country there’s less of a carbon footprint, too. And because it can’t break as easily, is more light-weight, and is easy to transport, it’s better for on-the-go social settings. “It’s really convenient to carry. There’s a lot of places where they don’t allow you to have glass on rooftops, grassy areas, on the beach, and so on,” Jordan Gutman, co-founder and President of Public House, said. “Boxed wine naturally allows for that.” All of this means that boxed wine ends up being cheaper. Prices typically range from $13 (Trader Joe’s) to $40 after tax for three liter boxed wines, and that’s not even including Tetra Pak options which are essentially adult juice boxes with a bottle and a half of wine inside (Bandit and French Rabbit are popular brands for those interested). “The consumer right now pays so much for the bottles through shipping and packaging that it’s just unnecessary,” Gutman told me. “Our wine is such a better value. The average consumer is going to save about 40% just on the wine when they purchase a boxed wine simply because of the packaging.”  Megan Willett/Business InsiderMe IRL last night.I’m not a complete convert to boxed wine yet. I’ve continued to buy bottles to bring to dinner parties and friend’s houses and I still enjoy a high-quality wine as a splurge.   It’s also worth noting that the only two areas boxed wine really falls short are perception (I’d never give boxed wine as a hostess gift, for example) and in the vintage market since boxed wine doesn’t age like bottled wine can (boxed wine can keep 6-8 months for unopened whites and 10-13 months for unopened reds). So if you’re a wine snob and you can only drink the best of the best, ignore my advice. Get all the expensive vintages you want and fill up that pretentious wine cellar of yours.  But for the rest of us, when it comes to day-to-day wine to drink with dinner, give boxed wine a chance. FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesWarren BuffettWarren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway just reported third quarter operating earnings per share of $2,876, crushing estimates by $283 per share. Expectations were for earnings to come in at $2,593 per share. Net earnings per Berkshire shares totaled $2,811.  Revenue in Berkshire's third quarter came in at $51.2 billion, up from $46.5 billion a year ago.  Earnings for holders of Berkshire 'B' shares are equivalent 1/1,500 of the Class A amount. On Friday, Class A shares of Berkshire Hathaway closed at $214,970, a new all-time high.  FREE AppDownload
Forbes It happened following my Tweet of a new Fox Business advertisement featuring Gasparino that said, "Charlie Breaks It! Others Follow." The advertisement also said, "FOR CHARLIE, IT'S NOT JUST BUSINESS, IT'S PERSONAL!" Insana, who used to work with Gasparino, responded on Twitter saying that CNBC's David Faber breaks the news and others follow.  This instigated a heated exchange where the two business reporters hurled insults back-and-forth. Gasparino called Insana a "fat slob" and said that he would "smack" him "silly."  Insana, who pointed out that he had lost 30 lbs,  then criticized Gasparino's reporting calling him a "single-source shill."  Gasparino then announced that he was going on air with Liz Claman. While doing his hit on Fox Business, he continued to hurl more insults toward Insana. He said that Insana was "jealous of Fox Business" and he "doesn't have much hair."  "I'm not being mean. He was mean to me...He's jealous of Fox Business. He's jealous of what we do here and he thinks that the world begins and ends at that crappy studio in Englewood Cliff[s]. I will say this—I have left him in the dust, the disgusting slob that he his. I have left David Faber and all of them. I do, every day, I break news and I will scrape him off my shoe any time, any day..." "He's disgusting. He's the lowest form of journalism," Gasparino said.   Claman told Gasparino to "go back to Twitter with that one." And so he did. Here's a rundown of the Tweets:                     Check out the Fox Business clip: FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Marcelo del Pozo Participants take part in the Color Run in the Andalusian capital of Seville.We got the October jobs report today. It wasn't spectacular. It wasn't awful. It was good. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Tuesday: 1. US companies added 214,000 nonfarm payrolls in October. That was a little lower than the 235,000 expected by economists. However, the net revision in the previous two reports was +31,000. So you could actually argue that payrolls beat expectations. 2. Pantheon Macroeconomics Ian Shepherdson believes that the jobs report might've actually been much stronger than what the BLS said. "The payroll shortfall in October is all about the seasonals and birth/death model, both of which were much tougher than in Oct. last year, for no apparent reason," Shepherdson wrote. "The seasonal subtracted 137K more from private jobs than a year ago, and the birth/death hit was 22K. Had they been unchanged, the Oct number would have been 373K.We can't make any sense of the seasonal/birth-death swing, and it will reverse in due course. In the meantime, the numbers as published are OK, with no standout weaknesses." 3. It's pretty clear that the pace of jobs growth is very healthy. For many economists, the number to watch in the jobs report was the wage growth number. Average hourly earnings climbed by just 2.0% year-over-year in October. This suggests there's still some slack in the labor market and little inflationary pressure. And that means the Federal Reserve is unlikely to feel pressure to rush rate hikes. "Continued progress in labor markets will likely keep the Fed on a path to normalization, but it will likely remain patient during the transition, given modest wage and inflation pressures," Barclays' Michael Gapen said. "We maintain our view that it will raise rates in June of next year, with risks tilted toward September given the sharp decline in commodity prices." 4. The S&amp;P 500 set an intraday all-time high of 2,034.26. The Dow set a high of 17,575.33. Don't Miss: The 18 Most Unequal Cities In America » FREE AppDownload
Some 16 NFL games are played every Sunday. Unless you have the DirecTV Sunday Ticket premium service, you will be able to watch only five or six of the games on television. DirecTV has about 20 million subscribers in the US, so the majority of NFL fans are left without access to the games on TV. DirecTV recently signed a deal with the NFL that will keep this system in place for the next eight years.What are football fans supposed to do in the current TV landscape, especially if they prefer not to run the risk of having beer spilled on them while watching the big game?Produced by Graham Flanagan. Camera by Devan Joseph. Map Animation by Alex Kuzoian.Follow BI Video: On Youtube.
Suburban life can have a ton of perks — great schools, open spaces, a sense of community — but some suburbs aren't cheap to live in. We went through our list of the 50 Best Suburbs in America and came up with the suburbs with the best value. We believe that value is more than just affordability: It's about getting a great education, a safe and thriving community, and affordable real estate.  To come up with this list, we looked at over 300 suburbs across the country with populations between 5,000 and 100,000 that were within 40 kilometers (24.9 miles) of the the nearest metropolitan area. We then factored in two criteria: housing affordability and school ratings from GreatSchools. To gauge affordability we looked at the percentage of homeowners in each suburb spending no more than 30% of their income on housing costs. Elm Grove, Wisconsin, which was No. 1 on our full list, dropped to No. 8, while Morton, Illinois, which was No. 28 on the full list, ranked first when it comes to value. Mike Nudelman/Business Insider Click here to see our full methodology. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Screenshot CNBCFinancial journalist Herb Greenberg just announced on Facebook that he's leaving TheStreet.com to join the newly formed short-focused firm GVB Financial Research. Greenberg didn't announce his new role, but said the only other employees will be Donn Vickrey, a former accounting professor who co-founded Gradient Analytics, and John Bossler, a former hedge fund portfolio manager who Greenberg said has been one of his sources for decades. He will remain a contributor at CNBC. "This move back to research will be a natural progression of what I've been doing much of my career," wrote Greenberg, who was the senior stocks commentator at CNBC for three years before joining TheStreet.com From 2008-2010, Greenberg took a hiatus from journalism to co-found and run Greenberg Meritz Research &amp; Analytics. He's also contributed to MarketWatch.com and The Wall Street Journal.  "I enjoy being part of running a business and, quite frankly, have missed it!" he wrote. Here's the full announcement from Greenberg: Dear Friends and Colleagues, At the end of the year I'll be leaving TheStreet to join forensic accountant Donn Vickrey and investigative research analyst John Bossler at the newly formed GVB Financial Research, an institutional short-oriented independent research firm.  I thoroughly enjoyed working on Reality Check at TheStreet.com over the last year, and much of what I did on Reality Check laid the foundation for this next chapter. Reality Check, without question, has contained some of the best work of my career.  The beauty of having spent a career in the news biz is that it sets you up to go in many different directions. This move back to research will be a natural progression of what I've been doing much of my career, including CNBC, The Street, MarketWatch and, until four years ago, GreenbergMeritz Research &amp; Analytics.  Plus, I enjoy being part of running a business and, quite frankly, have missed it!  I've known Donn and John for years and can't think of a better team with more experience, perspective and, perhaps most importantly, our collective instincts.  Donn is a former accounting professor who co-founded Gradient Analytics and is unquestionably one of the top independent forensic analysts of publicly traded companies.  In addition to doing deep-dive research, John has managed short-only assets and has been a hedge fund portfolio manager. He has also been a source of mine since the late 1990s. His work uncovering the fraud, Exide Battery -- whose CEO went to prison -- still sticks out as one of my favorites.  I, of course, know how to report and tell the stories.  Best of all, it will be just the three of us hashing out the ideas and doing the research. I will remain a contributor at CNBC.  And thanks to TheStreet and my friend Jim Cramer for supporting me in work that I love: my passion for uncovering unique risk reward ideas.  Onward....   FREE AppDownload
Given that economics is one of the most popular majors among millionaires around the world, it's probably a valuable degree. But not every school shows strength in its economics department. QS World University Rankings published a list of the best schools in the world for economics. To come up with this list, QS asked professors and people in academics around the world to identify the institutions where they believe the best work is currently taking place within their field of expertise. The list below shows the picks from economics professors.  You can read the complete methodology here. FREE AppDownload
Norwegian clothing brand OnePiece, which specializes in jumpsuits, or "onesies," as they are affectionately called, is bringing its product to the US.  The OnePiece was born on a "lazy Sunday" in 2007 when three friends decided it would be cool to sew together a pair of sweatpants with a hoodie and have a giant zipper. The jumpsuit is perfect for cozying up at home, but it's also meant to be worn in public. This fashion trend seems to be catching on with some celebrities like Khloe Kardashian and Justin Bieber.  This week, OnePiece opens a pop-up shop in the SoHo neighborhood of New York City, where it will offer discounts on the jumpsuits based on the size of customers' social-media footprint. We got a group of Business Insider employees to try out the onesies, which retail for up to $299. Produced by Graham Flanagan. Audio by Devan Joseph. Follow BI Video: On Facebook.
 GT Advanced, the former Apple sapphire supplier that filed for bankruptcy back in October, never had a chance. In a supplemental declaration by GT Advanced COO Daniel Squiller unsealed on Friday outlining GT Advanced's relationship with Apple, it's clear — at least as Squiller tells it — that Apple and GT's relationship was doomed from the start. We first saw the document after it was posted by the folks at StreetInsider.  This document follows a declaration from Squiller unsealed late last month that outlined some of the problems in Apple and GT's relationship.  Friday's document offers a bit more color.  For one, Apple was supposed to be a customer of GT Advanced, but the agreement between the companies didn't require that Apple be GT Advanced's customer. Apple simply became a lender.  And the agreement struck between the companies in the fall of 2013 was done via what Squiller called a "classic bait-and-switch strategy."  This agreement also stated that GT could not do business with any of Apple's competitors, which would be a reasonable requirement, because presumably Apple wouldn't want to be funding the manufacture of materials that found their way into a competitors' device. But again, Apple wasn't required to buy any sapphire at all.  Additionally, GT was required to build sapphire to Apple's specifications, which Squiller said, "continually changed and remain in flux to this day." (Squiller's complaint was given October 8; GT has subsequently said it will be exiting the sapphire business.)  The complaint also said that as of October 8, GT had incurred costs of $900 million related to the deal. Ahead of its bankruptcy filing, GT's market cap was about $1.5 billion.  Here's the ugly year-to-date chart of GT shares. Google Finance And the whole arrangement, at least as it's outlined in the declaration, seems foisted upon GT Advanced, and certainly not by the company's choosing. As Squiller says: "[T]he extensive and all-consuming nature of negotiations with Apple would have allowed little time to pursue alternatives. Knowing tht GTAT had no practical choice at that stage other than to concede to Apple's terms, Apple forced a set of agreements on GTAT that, in combination with Apple's economic leverage, put Apple in de facto control of GTAT." Squiller also says Apple advised GT management that they shouldn't "waste their time" trying to negotiate with the company. And when GT management, "expressed obvious concerns to Apple regarding the deal terms during the contract negotiations, Apple responded that similar terms are required for other Apple suppliers and that GTAT should: 'Put on your big boy pants and accept the agreement.'" Some of the terms outlined in the document that GT wasn't too excited about include a $50 million penalty per occurrence that any aspect of GT's agreement with Apple were disclosed, and a $1 billion penalty if GT doesn't honor Apple's 30 day exclusivity window should GT seek to sell its assets, or its sapphire business, or receives interest from a third party.  Apple also required GT establish a new wholly-owned subsidiary to implement what Squiller called, "a convoluted and artificial structure that serves no economic purpose—other than protecting Apple—such that GTAT Corp. would be obligated to buy and assemble furnaces for Apple, but the cash and furnaces would then be 'round-tripped' through GT Equipment, a so-called 'bankruptcy remote entity' using an illusory sale and leaseback between GTAT Corp. and GT Equipment." And ahead of inking its agreement with Apple, GT also paid off the remainder of a credit facility with Bank of America, which the complaint says, "was necessary to permit Apple to take a lien on all of the assets of both GTAT Corp. and GT Equipment — yet another deal term that Apple demanded." So Apple basically owned GT Advanced.  The document does not paint the picture of a healthy relationship between two business partners, and sounds much more like Apple essentially buying a supplier, but structuring the deal in such a way so as to not assume any of the financial risk. In a separate court document filed by Apple, the company said, "The [Squiller declaration] contained numerous statements about Apple that Apple believes to be untrue, irrelevant, and inflammatory." Apple added that, "Much of the Supplemental Squiller Declaration goes far beyond what was reasonably necessary to describe the Debtors' current financial situation and instead includes gratuitous characterizations of Apple's motives, negotiating tactics, and business practices."  We've embedded both documents below. You should read them.   FREE AppDownload
A major Wall Street trade group is lobbying to get legislation passed that would give trading firms, banks and institutional investors a greater say in how the U.S. stock market is governed, according to three people familiar with the plans. The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association (SIFMA) is making the case to lawmakers on Capitol Hill that the costs to implement and maintain market initiatives to its members, which include about 400 banks, brokers and asset managers, are significant, yet they have little input in crafting those rules. SIFMA has drafted the legislation and is looking for sympathetic ears, the people said. The lobbying effort is in the early stages and there is no guarantee that SIFMA will be successful in getting the legislation passed, the sources said.  The sources declined to be identified because they were not permitted to speak with the media. SIFMA declined to comment. AP ImagesNew York Stock Exchange.Currently, only self-regulated organizations, or SROs, which include registered stock and options exchanges and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, vote on matters related to what is known as the National Market System. SIFMA is seeking a vote for banks and another vote for asset managers in such matters.   The issue has long been a thorn in the side of SIFMA, but was pushed to the forefront in recent months as the SROs attempted to pick a manager for the stock market data processor that was at the centre of a three-hour trading halt in Nasdaq-listed stocks last autumn, one source said. The contract was awarded to Nasdaq OMX Group (NDAQ.O) on Wednesday, but only after months of deadlock among the exchanges. Lucas Jackson/ReutersFormer Fed Chairman, Alan Greenspan, speaks during the SIFMA annual meeting in New York, October 23, 2012.The SROs also recently drafted the rules for a one-year programme to see if raising the minimum trading increments for the stocks of companies with small- and mid-sized capitalizations will lead to an increase in trading in those names. Several in the securities industry have complained that the plan is overly complicated and will be expensive to implement.  Brokerages have to pay exchanges for trading data that they must subscribe to by law to prove they are getting the best possible executions for their customers. They feel like they are being "held hostage" by the exchanges because they have no say on the fees they have to pay exchanges for data that they help create by trading, said two of the sources.    The Wall Street firms are included in industry committees that make recommendations to the SROs on major market issues, but their recommendations are not binding.    In July, SIFMA published a list of market structure recommendations that included: lowering the access fees that exchanges charge; not forcing brokers to connect to exchanges that have less than 1 percent of overall market volume; and making order routing disclosures more transparent and easier to understand for retail investors.     FREE AppDownload
Goldman Sachs is the biggest employer of the Yale University Class of 2014 — aside from the university itself — hiring 23 new graduates of the Ivy League school, The Yale Daily News reports. The data comes from an annual survey of Yale seniors put together by the university's Office of Career Strategy. According to the YDN, 1,225 of the 1,298 Class of 2014 members have responded — almost 95% of students. According to the OCS survey, the YDN reports, "73.3 percent of the class currently holds a full-time, part-time or short-term position, while others are conducting independent research, traveling, volunteering or performing military service or care work ... Taking 16.6 percent of the class, financial services was once again the most popular industry for Yale graduates." Goldman Sachs hired the most Yale graduates, 23, while McKinsey &amp; Company hired 21, Bain &amp; Company hired 18, and Microsoft hired 13. One Yale junior — who interned for Goldman Sachs after her freshman year — told the YDN that "she thinks Yalies are drawn to Goldman Sachs because of its intellectually stimulating environment." "[Working at Goldman Sachs] is high-reward and relatively low-risk," the student said. See more information about the post-grad plans of the Yale Class of 2014 at The Yale Daily News &gt;&gt; FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA plane flies over a Bombardier plant in MontrealTORONTO (Reuters) - Canada's Bombardier Inc  has been showing its new medium-range CSeries jet to potential U.S. buyers, a spokeswoman said on Friday, as its test program advances after a summertime halt due to an engine problem. The Canadian planemaker is interested in showing the aircraft to a number of U.S. mainline carriers, including United Airlines Continental Holdings Inc , said spokeswoman Marianella Delabarrera. She declined to say who has seen it so far. "We're trying to capture as much of the interest as possible," said Delabarrera of the ongoing demo tour. "We really don't want to disrupt the flight testing if we can prevent that, but there are times when it's convenient." The closely watched CSeries is being tested at Bombardier's facilities in Mirabel, Quebec, and Wichita, Kansas. In an ambitious push into the competitive commercial jet market, the CSeries aircraft will compete with smaller offerings from Boeing Co  and Airbus Group NV  as well as Brazilian planemaker Embraer SA . Testing was halted in May after an on-ground engine fire, but resumed in September. The program has been plagued by delays and rising costs, worrying investors. One of the CSeries test planes went to Bombardier's regional sales office in Dallas in October. It also visited Republic Airways Inc , a unit of American Airlines Group Inc  that has a firm order for the CSeries, in Indianapolis. Delabarrera said some customers went to Dallas to see the plane, and others have visited Mirabel.  (Reporting by Allison Martell; Editing by Jeffreys Hodgson and Benkoe) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA Wall Street sign is pictured in the rain outside the New York Stock ExchangeBy John McCrank NEW YORK (Reuters) - A major Wall Street trade group is lobbying to get legislation passed that would give trading firms, banks and institutional investors a greater say in how the U.S. stock market is governed, according to three people familiar with the plans. The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association (SIFMA) is making the case to lawmakers on Capitol Hill that the costs to implement and maintain market initiatives to its members, which include about 400 banks, brokers and asset managers, are significant, yet they have little input in crafting those rules. SIFMA has drafted the legislation and is looking for sympathetic ears, the people said. The lobbying effort is in the early stages and there is no guarantee that SIFMA will be successful in getting the legislation passed, the sources said. The sources declined to be identified because they were not permitted to speak with the media. SIFMA declined to comment. Currently, only self-regulated organizations, or SROs, which include registered stock and options exchanges and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, vote on matters related to what is known as the National Market System. SIFMA is seeking a vote for banks and another vote for asset managers in such matters.  The issue has long been a thorn in the side of SIFMA, but was pushed to the forefront in recent months as the SROs attempted to pick a manager for the stock market data processor that was at the center of a three-hour trading halt in Nasdaq-listed stocks last autumn, one source said. The contract was awarded to Nasdaq OMX Group on Wednesday, but only after months of deadlock among the exchanges. The SROs also recently drafted the rules for a one-year program to see if raising the minimum trading increments for the stocks of companies with small- and mid-sized capitalizations will lead to an increase in trading in those names. Several in the securities industry have complained that the plan is overly complicated and will be expensive to implement. Brokerages have to pay exchanges for trading data that they must subscribe to by law to prove they are getting the best possible executions for their customers. They feel like they are being "held hostage" by the exchanges because they have no say on the fees they have to pay exchanges for data that they help create by trading, said two of the sources.    The Wall Street firms are included in industry committees that make recommendations to the SROs on major market issues, but their recommendations are not binding.    In July, SIFMA published a list of market structure recommendations that included: lowering the access fees that exchanges charge; not forcing brokers to connect to exchanges that have less than 1 percent of overall market volume; and making order routing disclosures more transparent and easier to understand for retail investors.      (Reporting by John McCrank; additional reporting by Lauren Tara LaCapra and Herbert Lash; Editing by Bernard Orr) FREE AppDownload
ReutersLogos and dark lighting are still part of shopping at Abercrombie. The once-leading teen retailer has struggled to stay relevant since the surge in demand for fast-fashion brands like Forever 21 and H&amp;M.  Abercrombie has also been criticized for excluding plus-size customers and minorities in its stores.  For several months, Abercrombie has been touting a rebrand that apparently includes scaling back on logos and spraying less of its Fierce cologne in its stores.  But when I went shopping at Abercrombie &amp; Fitch on Friday, it was very similar to when I visited the store a decade ago. Ashley Lutz/Business Insider There were some attempts at toning down the image — the preppy models on the in-store posters wear more clothes now, and the store seemed better lit than in the past.  Despite these subtle changes, the Lower Manhattan establishment still reeked of Fierce cologne, while the retailer's familiar nightclub-esque music played in the background. The staff was young, thin, and attractive.  Ashley Lutz/Business InsiderThe stores still reek of Fierce cologne. There were T-shirts, hoodies, and sweatpants with logos reading "Fitch" and "Abercrombie."  Ashley Lutz/Business Insider The iconic polos and T-shirts emblazoned with moose logos were also in stores.  Abercrombie's store did have one noticeable difference from the past — bold fashion assortments placed alongside the preppy designs.  The company said on an earnings call with analysts earlier this year that the American logo business would be reduced to "practically nothing" by next spring. There was this faux fur coat, which retails for $160 but was on sale for $110.  Ashley Lutz/Business Insider And a sequined cardigan, which sells for $98. Ashley Lutz/Business Insider In some cases, the fashions got a little bizarre, as with these overalls. They were marked down to $39 from $98. Ashley Lutz/Business Insider Abercrombie is obviously going through a big transition.  But there are a few problems with the new strategy.  Abercrombie's price point is significantly higher than the fast-fashion brands that are hurting business. Teens like shopping at Forever 21 because they can try out new styles without a big investment.  Online shopping and apps have made shoppers more price-conscious than ever, making this trend likely to continue even as the economy improves.  Ashley Lutz/Business Insider Right now, shopping in the store is a confusing mix between classic, preppy fashions and high-priced fashion. It is unclear what kind of audience Abercrombie is trying to attract.  Until Abercrombie figures out its audience, it will probably continue to struggle.  "Abercrombie is no longer the only place in the mall for teens to get stuff to wear to school," Brian Sozzi, chief equities strategist at Belus Capital Advisors, told Business Insider.   FREE AppDownload
CNBCSince we brought you the women on screen at Bloomberg last week, we couldn't leave CNBC out. This 25-year-old network has seen changes to the faces on air just like the competition. Maria Bartiromo was still on the network the last time we brought you this feature, but she's since ditched her home of 20 years to join Fox Business News. But the women on CNBC, vets and newbies, are still killing it. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe Bank of America building is shown in Los Angeles, CaliforniaBy Jonathan Stempel and Nate Raymond NEW YORK (Reuters) - Bank of America Corp and US Bancorp have reached a $69 million settlement of litigation over their roles as trustees for securities backed by home loans from Washington Mutual Inc, which failed in 2008. Lawyers for the investor plaintiffs called the settlement the first of its kind in a class action challenging the conduct of residential mortgage-based securities bond trustees. It resolves claims by the pension funds that filed suit that the banks failed to protect investors from hundreds of millions of dollars of losses when home loans underlying the securities they bought soured. The settlement was disclosed on Friday with U.S. District Court in Manhattan, and according to the plaintiffs provides an "immediate and favorable resolution" to the case. Both defendants denied liability, and Bank of America would make the $69 million cash payment on behalf of itself and US Bancorp, the papers show. The accord requires approval by U.S. District Judge Katherine Forrest. Bank of America spokesman Lawrence Grayson and US Bancorp spokesman Patrick Swanson declined to comment. Deborah Clark-Weintraub, a partner at Scott &amp; Scott representing the plaintiffs, could not immediately be reached for comment. The accord resolves a lawsuit filed in April 2012 by the Policemen's Annuity and Benefit Fund of the City of Chicago, and joined by many other pension funds and institutional investors. Bank of America, which is based in Charlotte, North Carolina, and US Bancorp, which is based in Minneapolis, were accused of failing as bond trustees to properly oversee a few dozen WaMu trusts dating from 2005 to 2007. According to the plaintiffs, the banks failed to properly take possession of loan files or ensure they were complete, or require WaMu to fix or buy back defective loans. In court papers, the plaintiffs said their investments sank in value because of high loan default rates, foreclosure delays and substantial credit losses that would not have occurred "but for defendants' failure to perform their responsibilities." Lawyers for the plaintiffs plan to seek from the settlement fund up to $13.8 million for legal fees and $3 million to cover expenses. The lawsuit was filed a week after another federal judge in Manhattan let four pension funds pursue similar claims against Bank of New York Mellon Corp over its role as bond trustee for Countrywide Financial Corp, now part of Bank of America. WaMu was the largest U.S. savings and loan before it failed on Sept. 25, 2008. JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co bought most of its operations. The case is Policemen's Annuity and Benefit Fund of the City of Chicago v. Bank of America NA et al, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York, No. 12-02865.  (Reporting by Nate Raymond and Jonathan Stempel in New York; Editing by Leslie Adler) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jim YoungBill Gross resigned as chief investment officer at PIMCO in SeptemberPIMCO just created a 225 million euro ($279 mn) bonus to compensate top talent and reassure employees after co-founder and chief investment officer Bill Gross unexpectedly quit in September. The "Special Performance Award," outlined today in PIMCO's quarterly earnings report, will be paid out as deferred cash awards over the next 10 to 12 quarters -- in addition to regular year-end bonuses. Dieter Wemmer, CFO at Allianz SE, which owns PIMCO, said on a conference call that "all employees that are not participating in the PIMCO profit pool" will receive the bonus, including senior portfolio managers, according to Bloomberg. Quarterly profits are up 10 percent from last year for the world's largest bond fund, but Bloomberg reported that it lost 49.2 bn euros ($61.1 bn) in client redemptions last quarter — mostly in the week after Gross left. PIMCO had experienced some tribulations under Bill Gross recently, and his sudden exit left clients and staff uneasy. So this new award should "secure performance" and "retain talents," the report said. FREE AppDownload
Anyone in America who drives a car is probably happy to see crashing oil prices translate to falling gasoline prices. WTI crude oil has gone from above $100/barrel this summer all the way down to around $76/barrel* this week. While the economy is likely to benefit from improved consumer sentiment, low oil prices also come with negative effects. Specifically, if prices get too low, then energy companies won't be able to cover the cost of production in the US. This spending by energy companies, also known as capital expenditures, is responsible for a lot of jobs. "The Energy sector accounts for roughly one-third of S&amp;P 500 capex and nearly 25% of combined capex and R&amp;D spending," Goldman Sachs' Amanda Sneider writes. Wall Street's economists and stock market strategists have argued that the next leg of the recovery and bull market would be fueled by a boom in capex across US businesses. So a slowdown in energy industry spending could mean trouble. "Our commodity strategists estimate that US oil production growth slows at a WTI price of $75/bbl, which they forecast will be reached in 1Q 2015. Even before then, the nearly 30% decline in crude oil prices since June has likely caused many firms to rethink planned capex." Goldman, however, is optimistic that we won't experience a worst-case scenario. "A slowdown in Energy sector investment will weigh on aggregate S&amp;P 500 capex spending in 2015, although growth for the sector, and accordingly for the broad S&amp;P 500, should reaccelerate as oil prices rebound in 2H 2015." *UPDATE: The price of WTI crude fell to $64.10 on Nov. 30, the lowest level since June 2009. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersU.S. Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen and IMF President Christine Lagarde attend a conference of central bankers hosted by the Bank of France in ParisBy Leigh Thomas and David Milliken PARIS (Reuters) - The International Monetary Fund and the United States encouraged the European Central Bank and the Bank of Japan toward greater monetary stimulus on Friday and urged governments around the world to do their share to encourage growth in their countries. Calling the world economy "fragile, brittle and fragmented", IMF Managing Director Christian Lagarde told a conference of central bankers in Paris it was "perfectly legitimate and appropriate" for the ECB and the BoJ to take unconventional steps to combat low inflation and economic stagnation. U.S. Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen said central banks "need to be prepared to employ all available tools, including unconventional policies, to support economic growth and reach their inflation targets", especially where governments have withdrawn fiscal stimulus policies to help recovery. The comments came a day after the European Central Bank ordered its staff to start preparing for bolder measures if needed to fight falling inflation, on top of a range of rate cuts, asset purchases and lending operations already agreed. Lagarde said governments with healthy budget positions should do more to support growth, belittling as insufficient a German announcement of an extra 10 billion euros in spending on public infrastructure over the next three years. "In this part of the world, we have to repeat over and over that monetary policy cannot be the only game in town, and that there has to be a combination of sound fiscal policies, use of fiscal space for those countries that have fiscal space in order to support growth and rejuvenate that growth," she said. "Clearly the announcement that was made yesterday was in the very small ballpark of what will be needed in order to do that." ECB Governing Council member Christian Noyer said central banks, including his own, should be prepared to buy public debt if needed to avert deflation or a run on sovereign bonds. "In extreme circumstances a central bank should mitigate the effects of confidence shocks on sovereign yields by purchasing government bonds," Noyer told the conference. "Such an action may be vindicated if there are risks to macroeconomic or financial stability or even if self-fulfilling runs on public debt may be a threat to market access, or lastly to avoid the deflationary consequences of a public debt event."  BUMPY TRANSITION Other speakers warned that the impact of the world's major central banks taking divergent policy directions after a long phase of easy money could cause turmoil among currencies and increase volatility across the financial markets. Bank of England governor Mark Carney spoke of a probable "bumpy transition" between a period when markets have been awash with cheap central bank liquidity and a return to more normal monetary conditions. "We're in this - with some exceptions - low volatility, compressed-spread environment, particularly around liquidity premia. That's going to change as things normalize," said Carney, who also chairs the global Financial Stability Board. "But that reality, or that likelihood, shouldn't, in my view, impact the timing of the start of normalization." The U.S. Federal Reserve Bank ended a multi-year bond-buying program last week although its policymakers differ about the timing and pace of future interest rate rises. New York Fed chief William Dudley told the conference the Fed will likely raise U.S. interest rates "sometime next year" and investors seemed to be getting the message of patience in this policy-tightening cycle. Mohamed El-Erian, an economic adviser to German insurer Allianz and former co-chief of bond giant Pimco, said central bankers should not underestimate the risk of currency market swings as their monetary policy take divergent paths. "As much as these currency moves may contribute to global rebalancing on paper, I would just caution from a market perspective not to underestimate ... the speed and size of currency moves," he said.  NO ALARM OVER EURO The euro fell to its lowest level since 2012 on Thursday, below $1.24, after ECB President Mario Draghi announced the unanimous determination of the bank's policy-setting council to take further unconventional measures if necessary to combat falling inflation. The ECB has begun a new wave of unlimited four-year cheap loans to banks in an effort to revive lending to businesses, and has started buying covered bonds and is set purchase bundled loans known as asset-backed securities. Draghi effectively committed the bank to boost its balance sheet by about 1 trillion euros ($1.24 trillion) towards the levels it had at the peak of the euro zone crisis in 2012 through those measures, and through others if they fell short. But while the euro has lost some 11 percent of its value against the dollar this year, it has not provoked undue alarm from Europe's trading partners so far. Central bankers said the issue arose on the sidelines of the annual IMF meetings in Washington last month, but other major economies understood that a weaker euro was preferable to seeing deflation in the euro area. BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda, chairing one of the sessions, hinted that the Japanese government should move faster to open up the economy to more competition to boost growth. His comments come after the Bank of Japan decided to expand its monetary stimulus policy to try to lift an economy still struggling to emerge from a decade of deflation and economic stagnation. Lagarde said the Tokyo government should move ahead with its commitments to raise consumption tax and make more space for women in the Japanese economy.   (Additional reporting by Jean-Baptiste Vey and Yann Le Guernigou; Writing by Paul Taylor; Editing by Giles Elgood and Sophie Walker) FREE AppDownload
The EconomistOpinion polls before the mid-term elections on November 4th suggested Barack Obama's party would be beaten, but this was a thrashing. Republicans captured the Senate easily and their majority in the House of Representatives is now the biggest it has been in most Americans' lifetimes.  A Republican candidate in New York was indicted for 20 counts of fraud, but won anyway. Close-up, the results are even worse for Democrats. They thought they could bin a bunch of tax-cutting, union-bashing Republican governors, but nearly all survived. Instead, Republicans captured governorships in solidly Democratic states like Maryland and Massachusetts. Mr Obama cannot escape the humiliating verdict on his presidency. He campaigned in his home state of Illinois, for a Democratic governor running against a Republican who belongs to a wine club that costs over $100,000 to join. The oenophile won by five points. Yet as Republicans toast their triumph, they should be careful not to over-interpret it. Their campaign did not offer voters much of a positive agenda; rather, it consisted largely of urging them to blame Mr Obama for all the trouble in the world. That was enough to secure victory, but does not give them a mandate to pursue a wishlist of conservative policies. Although more Americans than ever hold partisan views, a larger number are weary of gridlock and would prefer their representatives to compromise to get things done. For the voters to be satisfied, America will need to find new ways to run its politics. APPresident Obama and House Speaker John Boehner.Many outsiders will be baffled by the election results. Compared with other rich nations, America is in good shape, with a growing economy, booming stockmarket, falling unemployment and robust public finances, at least by European standards. Why, they wonder, is Mr Obama so disliked that Democrats in swing states asked him not to campaign for them? The answer is that although the economic headlines look good, voters do not feel that way. Median incomes are in the doldrums and many households feel terribly insecure about the future. A staggering two-thirds of Americans expect their children to be worse off than they are. And when they look at Washington, DC, to see what their political leaders are doing about it, they see a circus of name-calling and irresponsibility. Last year a stand-off between House Republicans and Mr Obama temporarily shut the government down and nearly caused a catastrophic sovereign default. The outgoing Congress is the least productive since 1947. The proportion of Americans who trust it is a wretched 7%. It may be harsh, but when voters think the country is on the wrong track, the president and his party get the blame. There is a Republican faction that would like nothing more than to spend the next two years indulging in futile attempts to repeal Obamacare and conducting televised investigations of the president's supposed abuses of power. If this faction prevails, America can expect yet more dysfunction and Republicans will deserve to lose the White House in 2016. Optimists are sure the new Congress will be better than that. Now that Republicans are in charge, voters will expect them to govern, rather than merely obstruct. Republican leaders such as Mitch McConnell and John Boehner would probably like to get things done, albeit with a bit of partisan sparring. And that means working with Mr Obama, who will remain president until January 2017 and can veto any bill the new Congress sends him. The two sides will thus have to find common ground--starting with the president. Deals are possible in plenty of areas. Republicans favour free trade; Mr Obama wants the authority, which his own party has denied him, to negotiate trade deals. Both parties want to fix the corporate-tax code, and to invest more in America's shoddy infrastructure. Moderates on both sides also want to reform immigration law to unblock the flow of talent on which America depends. REUTERS/John Sommers II U.S. Senate minority leader Mitch McConnell addresses the crowd during a campaign rally in Louisville, Kentucky, November 1, 2014. McConnell is running against Democratic Senate candidate Alison Lundergan Grimes. Yet, even if the optimists are right, America faces a host of ailments that seem beyond the reach of today's politics. The personal tax code cannot be simplified without closing middle-class loopholes. Health care and pensions for an ageing population will swallow up the budget unless costs are curbed and the retirement age is raised. In each case, lasting reform will inflict pain on large groups of voters. Reforms are possible only if they have both parties' fingerprints on them--if one side tried alone, the other would accuse it of throwing Grandma off a cliff. Cool heads in both parties know that the big entitlement programmes, which grow automatically, need fixing. Yet even in the most collaborative Congress, both sides would duck the issue, preferring instead to bicker over the mere 15% of the budget (excluding defence) that it re-authorises each year. America has changed since the days of Ronald Reagan and Bill Clinton. Money is splurged on elections and, many argue, this corrupts lawmaking. The parties are far more polarised and suspicious of each other. America's political architecture is part of the problem, for two reasons. First, the electoral system rewards extremists. Many members of the House represent gerrymandered districts which their party cannot lose. Their only fear is that they might lose a party primary to a challenger who accuses them of being soft on the other side. So they pander to the zealots who vote in primaries and treat opportunities for compromise like invitations to burn Old Glory. Second, the federal government has so many checks and balances that it is all but paralysed. The Senate filibuster gives 41 out of 100 senators the ability to block anything except a budget (they could in theory represent just 11% of the population). Attempts to limit campaign spending tend to fail--and to infringe the constitution's free-speech guarantee. The best one can hope for is that donors will have to reveal who they are. More can be accomplished with reforms that empower the centre and remove road blocks, without requiring a federal constitutional amendment. Here are three suggestions: First, scrap the filibuster in the Senate. Second, stop gerrymandering. Four states have already handed control of redistricting to independent commissions. California did so in 2010. Between 2002 and 2010 the state's House members held on to their seats 99.6% of the time; in 2012 a quarter of them retired or got the boot. The reforms also moderated California's state legislature. Once dominated by doctrinaire Democrats, last year it rejected 39 out of the 40 bills that the Chamber of Commerce said would kill jobs. One day, with luck, computers will design voting districts without taking party preferences into account. Third, other states should copy California's open primaries. Instead of letting just registered Republicans pick a Republican candidate and Democrats pick a Democrat, the Golden State now holds primaries in which anyone can vote. The top two candidates then proceed to the general election, even if they are both of the same party. This gives candidates an incentive to pitch to the political centre from the very start. None of these reforms will happen soon, as they all need patient agitation in the states. But if Americans want to be better governed--which is what they voted for this week--they need to change the way they elect their leaders. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
The October jobs report was solid.  The headline nonfarm payroll gains came in at 214,000 against expectations for 235,000, but the unemployment rate fell to 5.8% and we saw a new record streak of positive payroll gains, as October marked the 49th-straight month of gains, the most since at least the 1930s.  Additionally, we are now inside the longest streak for payroll gains over 200,000 since a 19-month streak in the early 90s.  Labor market momentum, measured as a percent of months within the last year that saw payrolls climb by more than 200,000, is now at levels not seen 2000.  In the wake of the Federal Reserve ending its QE program, the countdown is now on for the Fed to begin raising interest rates. And while the Fed might be waiting for wage growth — which was still subdued in Friday's report — to meaningfully pick up, there is undeniable momentum in the labor market.  As Deutsche Bank economist Torsten Slok writes: "Momentum in the labor market is stronger than in 2005-2006 and at the same level as in the late 1990s ... The FOMC will not ignore this chart." Deutsche Bank  FREE AppDownload
Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc can pay "substantially" more for Allergan Inc and should get a fair shot at buying it, Bill Ackman, the Botox maker's biggest shareholder, said on Friday. Ackman said this in a letter to Allergan's board the day after the company said it was discussing a merger with another company, widely reported to be Actavis, to fend off hostile bidder Valeant. Those Actavis discussions don't sit well with Ackman, per his letter: "We understand that you may have been reluctant to begin discussions with Valeant in that such discussions could have led to a large increase in its stock price, making it difficult for others to be competitive with a Valeant cash and stock offer. Much the same way, by beginning exclusive negotiations with Actavis, you are tipping the scales in Actavis’ favor, disadvantaging Valeant and discouraging it from raising its offer." Ackman then said that Allergan shouldn't favor either bidder until it's clear which one has the best offer.  He urged the board to run an auction "where neither party is the favored bidder, and both are encouraged to offer maximum value – before any obligation to pay a breakup fee is incurred." No one like breakup fees. Ackman owns 10% of Allergan — he'll use that 10% stake to vote in favor of the company's sale to Valeant on Dec. 18th. Earlier this week a California Judge ruled that the way Ackman purchased those shares with Valeant's help raised "serious questions" as to whether insider trading rules were violated. Allergan responded to Ackman's letter promptly after it was made public with this stand offish statement: "The Board remains focused on a single commitment, enhancing value for all of Allergan’s stockholders.  If Valeant were to make an increased offer, the Board would carefully consider it and respond in due course. However, to date, as we have noted repeatedly, Valeant's offers have been grossly inadequate and significantly undervalue Allergan." Valeant shares fell nearly 1 percent in early trading on Friday amid talk that the company's proposed plan to buy Allergan might collapse. Allergan stock was down 1.6 percent. Valeant and Ackman shocked Wall Street in April when they said they were working on a takeover deal that Allergan has steadfastly rebuffed as it tries to find another merger partner. Ackman wants to replace most of the board next month at a special shareholder meeting and has written to the directors before, telling them to take their fiduciary duties more seriously. FREE AppDownload
Eric Schmidt has managed to take some time off from his day job to take up acting on the side. Kind of. Google's executive chairman is the star of The Economist's latest advertising campaign, Marketing Week reports. The ad will broadcast on CNBC in Europe and Asia and will also appear across The Economist's social media channels. Take a look at the ad: The commercial is a re-working of The Economist's famous 1996 Henry Kissinger ad. That spot had depicted an executive waiting to see who he would be sitting next to on a flight, before the former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger sat himself down next to him. The 2014 version shows a businessman waiting patiently for an elevator to move, before Eric Schmidt stops the doors from closing and steps in. The rest of the ad shows the businessman trying — and failing — to build up the confidence to start a conversation with Schmidt. The "Broaden Your Horizons" ad aims to explain that if people read the Economist, they'd have lots to talk to Schmidt about. OK, so Schmidt doesn't really do much by way of acting in this ad, but it is quite remarkable that The Economist has persuaded one of the world's most powerful businessmen - and also one of its board members - to do some work on camera to plug its brand. FREE AppDownload
First Solar stock is crashing. In afternoon trade on Friday, shares of the company were down nearly 9%. On Thursday, the company reported adjusted earnings of $0.61 per share on revenue of $889 million, which was down from $1.26 billion a year ago.  But investors were mainly discouraged by comments made on the company's conference call by CEO Jim Hughes, who said the company was not prepared to file a registration for a YieldCo, a separate entity that would manage First Solar-installed solar projects and pay out a majority of its cash flow in the form of dividends.  Per Seeking Alpha's transcript of the conference call, Hughes said: Finally turning to the often asked question of the YieldCo, the company has determined that we are not prepared to file a registration statement and pursue a listed yield vehicle at this time. However we have also determined that the ownership and operation of whole or partial interest in select solar generating assets does have a role as a component part of our overall business model. We will continue to develop generation assets in the US and select other markets and at times we will retain either a whole or partial interest in such assets. As with any asset class we will continue to evaluate our options for the capitalization and governance of such assets. In response to analyst questions regarding the decision, Solar City said the company did not believe it was "missing either gross margin opportunities or market share capture opportunities because we don’t have a YieldCo today." According to StreetInsider, analysts at Needham wrote that: The biggest disappointment out of the earnings call was management's decision not to pursue a public yieldco, even as it grows bookings and plans to hold more self-developed projects on its balance sheet. While we understand that this approach gives FSLR more flexibility as it can still own part or all of the retained projects, we believe a yieldco would ultimately create more shareholder value. On Thursday, First Solar also cut its 2014 revenue outlook, to $3.6 to $3.9 billion from $3.7 to $4 billion, while reiterating its earnings per share guidance of $2.40 to $2.80.  Year-to-date, shares of First Solar are down about 7%. Here's the ugly chart of First Solar's drop Friday. Google Finance FREE AppDownload
I was lucky enough to see the Radio City Christmas Spectacular last night for the first time. The show, of course, stars the Rockettes. It's alot of fun. I shot a video from my seat using the iPhone 6 new slo-mo feature. Take a look. Produced by Justin Maiman. Edited by Sam Rega. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
 Wall Street has been bracing for a billion-dollar currency manipulation investigation that will be over in a few weeks, says The Wall Street Journal. In the past few weeks, it seems banks have been scrambling to prepare for whatever regulators on both sides of the pond may find after a fairly boring earnings season. Performance was average to slightly below, and the total trading rout banks expected didn't turn out to be that bad. But then the disclosures started coming. First Citigroup revised its earnings down to $0.88 per share from $1.07 per share to add $600 million to its legal reserves. Then JPMorgan Chase also disclosed that US and UK regulators were conducting criminal (the Department of Justice is in there) and civil probes into its Forex trading operations. Of course, it's cooperating, but it has no idea how much it could lose in such a settlement — maybe nothing, maybe $6 billion. Finally, on Thursday after the closing bell, Bank of America followed Citi and revised its earnings down by $400 million, adding that to its legal reserves to deal with whatever comes of the probe. So here's what we know about the investigation: Barclays, HSBC, Royal Bank of Scotland Group, UBS, Citigroup, JPMorgan, and Bank of America are all involved. Regulators will be charging these banks with failing to stop their employees from manipulating a specific currency exchange benchmark rate. There will be transcripts of their activity (always the most interesting part). The UK banks will take about $1.8 billion of fines for this, but regulators in the US haven't finished negotiating. The DOJ hasn't finished its civil and criminal investigations either, and those may not be done until next year. So in the meantime, save up. FREE AppDownload
Kinect has been scrapped. Its price has been cut. Games have been given away for free. Despite many aggressive initiatives, Microsoft cannot seem to boost sales of its ailing Xbox One video game console. Microsoft's latest promotion involves all three: The Windows-maker is now offering the Kinect-less Xbox One to American consumers for just $350 with a game — a nearly 40% discount from the suggested retail price last November. Although it seems like a great deal, Microsoft has dug itself a deep hole — Sony's lead appears insurmountable. Some may be inclined to dismiss my claims as outlandish — after all, it's been only one year. If their predecessors serve as any indication, Microsoft's Xbox One and Sony's PlayStation 4 could be competing at retail for the next decade. Much can change in the years ahead. While it's certainly possible for Microsoft to turn it around, it is hard to see what it could do — save giving the Xbox One away — to close the gap. No one can say Microsoft hasn't tried. Bundles were the first attempt — in March, Microsoft gave Xbox One buyers a free copy of "Titanfall," at the time, the Xbox One's most desirable game. Nevertheless, Sony's PlayStation 4 won out, outselling the Xbox One in March and April. In May, Microsoft cut the Xbox One's price by 20%, announcing a $399 Kinect-less version. But again, it made no difference, and Sony's console continued to widen its lead over the summer. Then, in September, Microsoft upped the ante even further, announcing that it would give Xbox One buyers a free game of their choice. That meant that for $400, buyers could get an Xbox One and two games assuming they took advantage of the available "Madden" and "Forza" bundles. Reacting to the promotion, analyst Michael Pachter predicted that the Xbox One would finally outsell the PlayStation 4 in September. Surely, gamers couldn't pass up such a great deal. But they did: Despite Microsoft's aggression, Sony's PlayStation 4 once again outsold the Xbox One in September. All told, Sony has now sold 13.5 million PlayStation 4s worldwide — most likely more than double what Microsoft has sold. I say "likely" because Microsoft has not been forthcoming with Xbox One sales figures — last quarter, it said it sold 2.4 million Xbox consoles, but it declined to break out the number of Xbox Ones from sales of the older Xbox 360. Prior to that, in April, it announced that it had shipped 5 million Xbox Ones, but it did not say how many consumers had actually purchased. In contrast to Microsoft, Sony has done virtually nothing. The PlayStation 4 still retails for the $399 it debuted at last year, effectively highlighting the futility of Microsoft's struggle: If the Xbox One can't catch the PlayStation 4 now, just wait until Sony cuts the price or runs a promotion of its own. Several factors explain Sony's lead (a more powerful console, better marketing, a more friendly stance toward used games), but they are mostly irrelevant. Going forward, the single factor most likely to determine sales success is outside both companies' control. Sony now has 7.9 million PlayStation Plus subscribers, the overwhelming majority of whom are likely to be PlayStation 4 owners (the rising popularity of PlayStation Plus has coincided with strong PlayStation 4 sales). PlayStation Plus membership confers numerous benefits, but it primarily serves as a way to access online multiplayer, a central component of the most popular games. "Destiny," for example, is online-only: Gamers must play on servers, primarily with (and against) their friends. With 9.5 million registered users, many are. Microsoft's former Xbox head Don Mattrick once observed that the "first company to reach 10 million in console sales" often wins the console war. With online play such a central component of most games, network effects run deep — gamers can play with their friends only if they both own the same console. Success begets success, as gamers whose friends own PlayStation 4s are highly encouraged to purchase PlayStation 4s of their own. Microsoft may go down swinging, but the damage appears done. Barring a miracle, Sony has this one in the bag. FREE AppDownload
 David Pakman co-created Apple's Music Group and worked for three digital music start-ups before finding his real calling as a venture capitalist. Now he's a partner at Venrock and has invested in companies like Klout, Dstillery and Dollar Shave Club. But his early entrepreneur experiences shaped those ventures and help him stand out as a star investor in a competitive field. Pakman sat down with OneWire CEO Skiddy von Stade and gave these three tips on how to best to source deals as a VC based on all he's seen in his career (so quite a bit): These days investors are chomping at the bit to fund start-up digital media companies — "and everyone’s money’s just as green," Pakman said. So Venrock capitalists strive to add more than just capital to their ventures. "Venrock’s been around for more than 40 years and has invested in many of the world’s most incredible companies," Pakman said. "The belief is that we’ve seen this show before and we can offer some guidance to an entrepreneur." Not only does Venrock have that kind of expertise, but Pakman does too. "I’ve started and ran companies, so I’ve seen that grind," he said. Pakman said new entrepreneurs tend to be short-sighted and focused on the next few weeks or months ahead. So he aims to provide longer-term wisdom to his partners. "I try to help entrepreneurs see around corners," he said. Pakman said entrepreneurs must feel that you see eye to eye with them, sense the same macro trends taking place, and share a long-term vision. It can take years to get a start-up company where you want it to go. "So you have to be aligned with the same super long-term vision as an entrepreneur, and I think that’s another way to differentiate," he said. Watch the full OneWire interview above and subscribe to the series to get new interviews as soon as they are posted. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA sign on the Canary Wharf offices of JP Morgan is seen through the branches of a tree in London(Reuters) - JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co  said it would cut more than 3,000 jobs than previously expected in its retail banking unit. The bank expects its 2016 retail banking expense base to be $2 billion lower than in 2014, JPMorgan's retail bank head Gordon Smith said in an investor conference on Friday.  (Reporting by Tanya Agrawal; Editing by Sriraj Kalluvila) FREE AppDownload
Getty The retailer made $911.4 million in the quarter compared to $1.033 billion over the same period last year. "We are clearly disappointed with our results for the third quarter," CEO Mike Jeffries said in a statement. "Continued weak store traffic was the primary contributor to the weak sales trend, particularly in Europe, where the environment there showed signs of further slowing. In addition, the decline in sales of heavy logo product weighed on the sales trend as we continued to reduce that element of our assortment in response to changing consumer preferences." Same-store sales fell 10%, with US sales dropping 7% and international sales declining 15%. Abercrombie has been struggling for the past several years to lure fickle teen shoppers, who are spending less on apparel than previous generations did. The company's same-store sales fell 10% in fiscal 2013 and its namesake brand no longer ranks among teens' top 10 favorite brands as of fall 2014, according to Piper Jaffray's semiannual survey on teen spending. Piper Jaffray 1. Ditching the logo business. The company said on an earnings call in August that its logo business would be reduced to “practically nothing” in North American markets by spring. This is a big change in Abercrombie’s business strategy. Loud logos, as pictured below, have been central to the teen-apparel maker’s fashions for decades.  The change was already reflected in Abercrombie's fall line. Here are some examples:  2. The company is changing the nightclub aesthetic of its stores to make them more open, brighter, and more inviting. Abercrombie is removing the dark shutters (shown below) from its windows to let in more light, turning down the volume of the music in its stores, and cutting back on regimented cologne spritzing inside its stores.   3. Abercrombie is trying to turn its Hollister brand into a fast fashion retailer, like Zara and Forever 21. The transformation will mean lower prices and more styles for Hollister shoppers. The company is making the transition by beefing up its US-based supply vendors to decrease the turnaround time for new fashions.  Check out the full press release on third-quarter earnings below: New Albany, Ohio, November 7, 2014: Abercrombie &amp; Fitch (ANF) today provided a business update on the Company's performance for the third quarter ended November 1, 2014. Net sales for the third quarter decreased 12% to $911.4 million, compared to net sales of $1.033 billion for the prior year third quarter ended November 2, 2013. Total comparable sales, including direct-to-consumer sales, decreased 10% with comparable U.S. sales decreasing 7% and comparable international sales decreasing 15%. Total direct-to-consumer comparable sales increased 8%. Sales during the quarter were below expectations with comparable sales in September and October being significantly weaker than August. Although the international stores segment was the most difficult, the lower sales trend was broadly based. In addition, the Company now expects modest gross margin rate erosion for the quarter compared to last year, given the highly promotional and challenging environment. The effect of lower sales and gross margins will be partially offset by continued significant expense reductions. The Company's results for the quarter were also adversely impacted by the strengthening of the U.S. dollar. Excluding anticipated charges related to the impairment of store-related assets, store closures, the Gilly Hicks restructuring, the Company's profit improvement initiative, and certain corporate governance matters, the Company expects to report adjusted non-GAAP net income per diluted share for the third quarter in the range of $0.40 to $0.42. The comparable GAAP net income per diluted share measure is not available at this time, pending finalization of the above charges, but will be available when the Company reports its third quarter results on Wednesday, December 3. Non-GAAP financial measures should not be used as alternatives to net income and net income per diluted share and are also not intended to supersede or replace the Company's GAAP financial measures. The Company believes it is useful to investors to provide the non-GAAP financial measures to assess the Company's operating performance. Related QuotesANF35.38+4.67%Abercrombie &amp; Fitch Co.<U+E023> Watchlist35.38+1.58(4.67%)NYSEThu, Nov 6, 2014 4:02 PM EST ABERCROMBIE &amp; FITCH CO /DE/ Files SEC form 8-K, Results of Operations and Financial Condition, Financial Statements a EDGAR Online 14 mins agoAbercrombie bulls see quick pop optionMONSTER 2 days 2 hrs agoMoreThe Company ended the third quarter with inventory at cost down 20% compared to the end of the prior year third quarter. At this point, the Company is not providing an update to its full year earnings guidance, but expects to do so in connection with its full third quarter earnings release on Wednesday, December 3. Mike Jeffries, Chief Executive Officer of Abercrombie &amp; Fitch Co., said: "We are clearly disappointed with our results for the third quarter. Continued weak store traffic was the primary contributor to the weak sales trend, particularly in Europe, where the environment there showed signs of further slowing. In addition, the decline in sales of heavy logo product weighed on the sales trend as we continued to reduce that element of our assortment in response to changing consumer preferences. For the quarter, Hollister comps, disproportionately weighed by European comp sales, continued to underperform relative to A&amp;F. In addition, weakness in tops, particularly fleece and male graphic tees, more than offset positive trends in jeans and dresses. In the short term, we are reviewing measures to drive improvement in our results in the critical fourth quarter. Longer term, we continue to believe we are taking the right steps strategically to position the company for future improvements in our performance. This includes the completion of our move to a branded structure, strategic investments in Asia and in our Direct to Consumer business, shifting our assortment in line with consumer preferences, re-engaging with our customer through store re-design and marketing initiatives, continuing to close underperforming U.S. stores, and continuing to reduce expenses. We will provide a more extensive update on our quarterly earnings call." The Company will release its third quarter results prior to the U.S. market's open on Wednesday, December 3, 2014 and hold a conference call at 8:00 AM Eastern Time. To listen to the conference call, dial (877) 874-1567 and ask for the Abercrombie &amp; Fitch Quarterly Call or go to www.abercrombie.com. The international call-in number is (719) 325-4886. This call will be recorded and made available by dialing the replay number (888) 203-1112 or the international number (719) 457-0820 followed by the conference ID number 3359329 or through www.abercrombie.com. About Abercrombie &amp; Fitch Co. Abercrombie &amp; Fitch Co. is a leading global specialty retailer of high-quality, casual apparel for Men, Women and kids with an active, youthful lifestyle under its Abercrombie &amp; Fitch, abercrombie, Hollister Co. and Gilly Hicks brands. At the end of the third quarter, the Company operated 834 stores in the United States and 166 stores across Canada, Europe, Asia, Australia and the Middle East. The Company also operates e-commerce websites at www.abercrombie.com, www.abercrombiekids.com, www.hollisterco.com and www.gillyhicks.com.   FREE AppDownload
 Friday's jobs report was solid. Payroll gains totaled 214,000 and the unemployment rate fell to 5.8%.  Wage growth remained elusive, which is unlikely to make the Federal Reserve feel like it needs to raise rates anytime soon. But overall, this report confirmed the labor market improving (which is something the Fed acknowledged in its latest monetary policy statement).  Here are the four awe-inspiring stats to keep in mind after Friday's report:  And there's more. October was the 49th consecutive month of positive payroll gains, a streak that dates back to October 2010. This is the longest such streak since the 1930s, according to Reuters' Jamie McGeever. McGeever also highlighted the other streaks we just broke: US job growth streaks: 49 months Oct '10-present48 months July '86-June '90 46 months Sept '03-June '07 45 months July '75-March '79 And aside from this streak of positive report, we are also in the middle of the longest streak of payrolls gains of more than 200,000 since a 19-month streak seen from 1993-1995.  Here's the chart of those gains, via Pantheon Macroeconomics.  Pantheon Macroeconomics And alongside these streaks, we also saw the employment-to-population ratio tick up to 59.2%, its highest level since 2009.  FRED And perhaps the biggest headline out of all these is the drop in the unemployment rate. The unemployment rate, which in September fell below 6% for the first time since 2008, fell again to 5.8% to its lowest since June 2008.  And according to economists at BNP Paribas, the unrounded unemployment rate was within a few tenths of falling even further, with that rate coming in at 5.756% before rounding. Here's the chart showing the unemployment rate, which has fallen steadily since topping out after the financial crisis.  FRED FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersChicago Federal Reserve Bank President Charles Evans speaks during the Sasin Bangkok Forum(Reuters) - The Federal Reserve should be "extraordinarily patient" when it comes to raising interest rates, because doing so too soon could choke off recovery and force the U.S. central bank to cut rates back to zero again, a top Fed official said on Friday. While asserting his optimism that the economy will grow at a 3-percent pace over the next 18 months or more, Chicago Federal Reserve Bank President Charles Evans told a community banking conference that the expectation inflation will return to 2 percent is "more of a hope than anything we’ve seen in the data." Even with labor market slack diminishing, downside risks remain, including weakness in global economies and the strengthening of the U.S. dollar, which pushes down on U.S. inflation, he said. But the biggest risk, he said, is raising rates prematurely, which could consign the United States to the kind of stagnation that affected it in the 1930s and that dogs Japan today.   (Reporting by Ann Saphir; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama) FREE AppDownload
US companies added 214,000 payroll in October. This was a bit lighter than the 235,000 expected by economists. However, keep in mind that the 214,000 is the Bureau of Labor Statistics' seasonally adjusted number. In other words, it is adjusted for distorting factors like weather, holidays, the opening and closing of schools, and the births and deaths of businesses. It is this month's seasonal adjustments that Pantheon Macroeconomics' Ian Shepherdson has problems with. From a note to clients: ... The payroll shortfall in October is all about the seasonals and birth/death model, both of which were much tougher than in Oct. last year, for no apparent reason. The seasonal subtracted 137K more from private jobs than a year ago, and the birth/death hit was 22K. Had they been unchanged, the Oct number would have been 373K. We can't make any sense of the seasonal/birth-death swing, and it will reverse in due course. In the meantime, the numbers as published are OK, with no standout weaknesses. A total of 373,000 would have been considered a blowout number. Shepherdson also notes that there was a net 31,000 upward revision to the previous two jobs reports, so you could actually argue this month's number was closer to 245,000. These adjustments and revisions are just a few of the many issues associated with the jobs report. So it is probably best not to make policy or investment decisions based on the outcomes of one report. FREE AppDownload
Mario Tama/Getty ImagesStocks have opened lower after a jobs report that saw payroll rains disappoint with an unemployment rate that fell to 5.8%.  In early trade, the Dow was down 35 points, the S&amp;P 500 was down 4 points, and the Nasdaq was down 13 points. Stock futures had been higher in pre-market trading following the report.  Friday's jobs report said nonfarm payrolls in the US grew by 214,000 in October, while the unemployment rate fell to its lowest level since June 2008.  Expectations were for the unemployment rate to remain unchanged at 5.9% with payrolls expected to rise by 235,000.  Following the report bond yields were also little changed, with the US 10-year at 2.38% following a brief rally ahead of the report.  There hasn't been a ton of reaction in the currency market following the report, though the dollar is broadly stronger against most major currencies.  Oil prices are also spiking a bit following the jobs report, climbing back above $78.  Stocks in Europe were mixed following the report, with London's FTSE gaining 0.4%, while most other major bourses were down, with the largest losses coming in Italy and Spain.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Larry DowningFederal Reserve Chair Janet YellenThe economy added to its jobs streak today. Nonfarm payrolls were up 214,000 in October, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. The unemployment rate dropped to 5.8%, the lowest it has been since the summer of 2008. While the headline numbers are good, wage growth is still stagnant, rising only 2% year-over-year. As a result, Wall Street thinks this means the Fed won't feel too much pressure to raise interest rates sooner than anticipated. From a note to BNP clients: "Today’s employment report is likely to keep the FOMC on track to hike rates around Q2 2015 – with risks for earlier or later roughly balanced." Captial Economics' Paul Ashworth shared the same sentiment: "Admittedly, the Fed doves could still cling to the news that, despite the decline in the unemployment rate, there is still no sign of a pick -up in average hourly earnings, which increased by a muted 0.1% m/m last month." NB: For the market, this report should be goldilocks. No slowdown, no pressure to tighten. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersMester, President and CEO of the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, walks with McAndrews, vice president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, as they arrive for the opening reception of the Jackson Hole Economic Policy SymposiumWASHINGTON (Reuters) - Policy at the Federal Reserve is keeping pace with developments in the economy and the Fed is not falling behind the curve in planning its first interest rate increase, Cleveland Fed president Loretta Mester said on Friday. "I am not thinking we are behind the curve," Mester said in an interview on CNBC, noting that she voted in favor of the most recent Fed policy statement. "We are going to react to developments in the economy." Mester said she forecast three percent growth "for the next couple of years," and that it would likely be appropriate to raise interest rates sometime next year.     (Reporting By Howard Schneider; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/RIA Novosti/Alexei DruzhininRussian President Vladimir Putin took a quick break from politics to describe the 'the meaning of life' at the 15th Congress of the Russian Geographical Society. "In general, love is the whole meaning of life, of being. Love of family, of children, and of the Motherland. It is such a multifaceted phenomenon that is the basis of all our actions," he said in the conclusion of a speech at the event, reports RIA Novosti. Additionally, he expressed his hope that the Russian Geographical Society might be able to "strengthen the love for the Fatherland," according to RIA Novosti. (The words for 'Fatherland' and 'Motherland' are interchangeable synonyms in Russian.) Love for the Fatherland "is exactly that most important task to which we must all strive towards, and I am absolutely convinced that success awaits us," he told the RGS. Putin is the chairman of the board of trustees of the Russian Geographical Society. (h/t Alec Luhn) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlo AllegriIt is Jobs Day in America.Job gains in October were less than expected, though the unemployment rate fell to its lowest level since 2008. Nonfarm payrolls grew by 214,000 in October, while the unemployment rate fell to 5.8%, according to the latest monthly employment report from the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Following the report, US stock futures are modestly higher, with Dow futures up 29 points, S&amp;P 500 futures up about 4 points, and Nasdaq futures up about 14 points. Last month's payroll gains were also revised up, to 256,000 from 248,000. The drop in the unemployment rate takes this number to its lowest level since 2008, and the "U-6" unemployment rate, which also includes those working part time for economic reasons, fell to 11.5% from 11.8%. Unrounded, the headline unemployment rate came in at 5.756%.  In a note to clients following the report, Paul Ashworth at Capital Economics wrote: "Although the 214,000 gain in nonfarm payrolls in October was slightly below the consensus forecast at 235,000, this was still, on the whole, a strong employment report. A massive 638,000 surge in the alternative household survey measure of employment pushed the unemployment rate down to only 5.8%." The household survey is a broader employment measure that includes self-employed workers with unincorporated businesses, unpaid family workers, and agricultural workers. This reading, however, has a larger margin of error than the headline establishment survey. Friday's report showed an increase in average weekly hours worked, in-line with expectations, to 34.6 hours.  Wage growth remained somewhat disappointing, as wages grew 0.1% month-on-month, missing expectations for growth of 0.2%. Year-over-year, wages grew 2%, below expectations for a 2.1% gain.  The labor force participation rate, which is also closely watched by the market, rose slightly from last month, to 62.8% from 62.7%. The employment-population ratio increased to 59.2% in October, the highest level since 2009.  And on Twitter, Reuters' Jamie McGeever said that this was the 49th consecutive month of job gains, the longest streak since at least the 1930s.  Additionally, this is the longest streak of 200,000-plus payrolls gains since a 19-month streak that was seen from 1993 to 1995. Here is what Wall Street was looking for ahead of the report: FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFord of Europe CEO Stephen Odell speaks to Reuters during an interview in CologneLONDON (Reuters) - Ford Motor Co’s  regional chief for Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA) will switch roles with the company’s global head of sales and marketing on Jan. 1, a senior company source said on Friday.  The source confirmed an earlier report by trade publication Automotive News that Stephen Odell, 59, will move from his EMEA position to company headquarters in Dearborn, Michigan, switching jobs global marketing chief Jim Farley, 52. The changes will give Farley his first senior operating role in the company and put a seasoned operating executive, Odell, in charge of marketing, sales and service worldwide. “The idea here is to give a ‘fresh eyes’ approach both to EMEA and global marketing, without tearing up everything,” a senior Ford official told Reuters.    (Reporting by Paul Ingrassia; Editing by David Goodman) FREE AppDownload
Having a LinkedIn profile picture makes you seven times more likely to be clicked on by an employer.   Don’t have a profile picture? Or need to take a new one? Here’s a step-by-step guide to taking the perfect LinkedIn profile picture. Produced by Devan Joseph. Narrated by Matt Johnston. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
REUTERS/Paulo WhitakerTraders work the floor of the dollar pit at the Futures and Commodities Market (BM&F) in Sao Paulo.JonesTrading's Dave Lutz has a roundup of what traders are chatting about right now. Good Morning!  US Futures are opening flat, as the world awaits our payroll number (the Survey is 235k, High Estimate 314k - Of the 10 Bloomberg “Top Forecasters” 8 of them are all below 235k, but many whispers expecting a big beat based on Seasonality, Weekly Claims Data, and tax Withholding Receipts.   Also remember many retailers are “pulling Forward” the Holidays, so Seasonal Hires may come sooner than normal).   In Europe, Markets are softer as more Ukraine/Russia escalation headlines hit – and Banks are underperforming as we may see fines for Currency Manipulation Next Week.  Spain is getting hit worst, off 1% ahead of this weekend where Catalans will hold an unofficial independence vote in defiance of a Spanish court ruling.  Over in Asia, despite the Rouble suffering biggest weekly loss since the fallout of the 1998 Russian crisis, the MICEX is near YTD highs.   Nikkei popped 50bp as $/Y stayed thru 115 overnight; Continue to see Tech shares underperforming as Hang Seng lost 40bp -  while China was off small.   Aussie was the standout winner, as Basic Materials jumped 2% on hopes China will restart Steel Mills next week post APEC.  Global Sovs Yields are higher – and even the PIIGs are tighter, despite the weakness in Europe.  Feels like a continuation of yesterday’s “Strong NFP” trade, where Yields closed on highs, and we saw sharp strength in Economically Sensitive sectors like Industrials, Retailers and Builders (nice spike off 200dma).    The DXY is stronger as well, just above 88 and near yesterday’s peaks, causing a headwind for commodities.   That said, WTI continues to rally, up 50bp on Export hopes and oversold conditions – Natty Gas is finally taking a breather after leaping 14% this week – and we still see little life in Metals, with Silver, Copper and Gold around unch/slightly lower – It’s early, but the Miners (GDX/GDXJ) have recovered from that 30mln share dump on the close, and are marked higher again this AM – following yesterday’s sharp outperformance against the Metal.    Aside from the aforementioned – keep an eye on the Banks – They are lagging early into Next Week’s Fine announcement, but the 3M5Y curve is steeper, so tailwinds are blowing.   Keep an eye on Oil’s impact to HYG – HYG has been weighed sharply by carnage in the Energy HY Sector (15% overall) – and stability may cause a sharp rebound.   We have seena  reversal lower this week in High Beta – and IBB/XBI start with a major headwind in SLXP  (#15 Holding IBB, 1.9% Fund).  Scheduled Catalysts include our Employment report at 8:30, Fed's Evans Speaks on Economy at 9:15, Fed's Yellen Speaks on “Policy Since the Crisis” at 10:15, At 1pm we get the Baker Hughes Rig Count - then Fed's Tarullo Speaks on Community Banking at 2:30.  3pm brings Consumer Credit, and the week wraps with the “Commitment of Traders” data at 3:30. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersBlackrock CEO Larry FinkPARIS (Reuters) - BlackRock Inc Chief Executive Larry Fink said on Friday it was essential for policymakers to consider how economies are being affected by the behavior of savers, who have cut back on consumption because of low yields. Speaking at a conference hosted by the Bank of France, Fink said a failure to generate decent returns meant savers were not making enough gains to support themselves in retirement. "This gap we estimate of having all this money in the short-term area is about a trillion dollars in terms of what (savers) need to invest and support themselves in retirement," Fink said. "In our view that is why we are seeing a flattening of the yield curve, and in fact we may see an inverted yield curve in the future if we don't start seeing some recognition in terms of the short end for savers." (Reporting by Leigh Thomas and David Milliken, writing by Andy Bruc; editing by William Schomberg) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersWorkers look at their phones while walking at the Canary Wharf business district in LondonLONDON (Reuters) - When digging for insight on a complex retail story such as Tesco, whose shares are at decade lows after profit warnings and boardroom upheaval, every little helps investors – even comments in employee chatrooms. While it may be far removed from stockbrokers' traditional balance-sheet analysis, and often less well written, traders and fund managers are scouring online messageboards and forums to gauge mood, morale and management success - information easily overlooked by busy investors. One of these troves of gossip has been Tesco employee forum verylittlehelps.com, for example, where one anonymous writer posted: "I hope that the new boss takes this opportunity to ensure that systems are worked properly. Stock is written off. Staff are employed. Waste is recorded. Shelves are filled." That does not mean investors will take these comments at face value without filtering them, but there is a sense that unofficial sources and social media are being taken more seriously as a way to go beyond broker research and company disclosure. "In general, I think it's a very good idea to look at employee opinions which will give you inside information that you would not get from banks' research notes, but you would have to be careful to filter out the noise," said Hendrik Klein, head of Swiss high frequency trading firm Da Vinci AG. Ex-Morgan Stanley banker Emmett Kilduff, whose firm Eagle Alpha helps investors analyze the Internet and Twitter for clues on the financial market environment, said there had been growing demand from fund managers for analysis of employee views online. Tesco was a prominent request in the wake of its announcement in September that it had a bigger-than-expected hole in its finances. Tesco is conducting a probe into the matter. Another was postal operator Royal Mail, which in March announced plans to cut a net total of 1,300 jobs, prompting the threat of industrial action from a trade union. Employee forums were used in order to gauge the risk of strike action. Even official corporate videos posted online can give investors insight, such as those of U.S. electric car maker Tesla Motors, whose videos were analyzed by Eagle Alpha for investors which might have otherwise missed them. In several of these, Tesla Motors - whose shares have risen by nearly 60 percent since the start of 2014 - gave "behind the scenes" tours of production lines and product demonstrations. "Online conversations about companies like Tesco or Tesla are increasing every day, providing valuable, real-time insights. There's a wealth of diverse sources out there, and the buy-side needs the full picture," said Kilduff. Tesco and its rivals, such as Marks &amp; Spencer, have been dogged by declining market share, even though M&amp;S this week posted its first rise in interim profits in four years. Fund managers said comments on the Internet by current or former employees could offer valuable insight into such companies, although investors would have to decide whether to believe the picture painted by often anonymous online posters. "What's online in some of the chat rooms can highlight issues such as low morale in some of these companies, or maybe plans to close stores or change suppliers," said SVM Asset Management fund manager Colin McLean. Both Miton Group fund manager George Godber and Artemis fund manager Tim Steer said they used Eagle Alpha's services, with Godber describing its Tesco analysis as "enormously insightful." McLean said that while such information gleaned from the Internet would add anecdotal evidence on top of the more traditional, fundamental research into companies undertaken by fund managers, it could still be used to traders' advantage. "It would add color to something", he said. "I would not be surprised if some of the bigger hedge funds have systems in place to analyze such information."   (Reporting by Sudip Kar-Gupta; Editing by Lionel Laurent and Toby Chopra) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Albert GeaSpain's Cristina de Borbon.A Spanish High Court said on Friday it would uphold charges of tax fraud against Cristina de Borbon, sister of King Felipe VI, rejecting an appeal against the charges which were originally brought by a lower court in the Balearic Islands region. However, the High Court of Palma de Mallorca said it would drop charges of money laundering against the princess. Cristina de Borbon has been caught up in an investigation of her husband Inaki Urdangarin's business dealings, in a case that has shaken the monarchy at a time when it is trying to rebuild its reputation under the newly-crowned king. (Reporting By Sonya Dowsett; Editing by Sarah White) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA Sears store is seen in Schaumburg, Illinois near Chicago(Reuters) - Struggling retailer Sears Holdings Corp  said it was exploring the conversion of 200-300 stores to a real estate investment trust (REIT) and offer it to shareholders through a rights offering to raise cash. The company was looking to monetize a portion of its real estate through a sale-leaseback transaction, it said in a regulatory filing. Sears has been trying to raise cash to get it through the build-up to the year-end shopping season and it has repeatedly turned to Chief Executive Eddie Lampert and his hedge fund, which together own 48.5 percent of Sears. The company has been closing stores, slashing inventory and selling off assets to generate cash after a decade of falling sales and dwindling margins. It has booked losses for nine straight quarters. Sears said on Friday it sold a full-line store in Cupertino, California for $102.5 million in October. Sears full-line stores are mall-based locations averaging 136,000 square feet. The company said it raised about $300 million from selling a part of its stake in Sears Canada  through a rights offering, as of Nov. 6. It had planned to raise up to $380 million. The company said it would not add results of Sears Canada from the third quarter. Sears estimated flat comparable sales and an adjusted loss before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization of $275 million to $325 million in the quarter ended Nov. 1. The company will report results on Dec. 4. As of Nov. 1, the company had about $330 million in cash and $234 million under its credit facility.  (Reporting by Sruthi Ramakrishnan in Bangalore; Editing by Don Sebastian) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/American-Statesman/Jay JannerTexas Gov. Rick Perry, center, and his lawyers David Botsford, left, and Tony Buzbee at a pretrial hearing to face abuse-of-power charges, in the 390th District Court at the Blackwell-Thurman Criminal Justice Center in Austin, Texas, on Thursday.Good morning! Here's what you need to know. It's Jobs Day. The Bureau of Labor Statistics will release October jobs stats at 8:30 a.m. ET. Economists estimate US companies added 235,000 payrolls as the unemployment rate held steady at 5.9%. The Bull Case. Capital Economics' Paul Dales estimates nonfarm payrolls jumped 275,000. "There’s a good chance that October’s Employment Report will send a very strong signal that, despite the recent signs of some softening in overseas demand, the US economy continues to grow at a rapid pace," Dales wrote. "[T]he fall in the number of initial jobless claims further below 300,000 appears consistent with faster job growth." Markets Are Going Nowhere. Ahead of the report, markets aren't doing much. Dow futures are up 1 point, and S&amp;P futures are down 1 point. Most major European markets are down by less than 1%. Japan's Nikkei closed up 0.5%, and Hong Kong's Hang Seng closed down 0.4%. Keep in mind that the S&amp;P 500 closed on Thursday at an all-time high. German Industrial Data Was Weaker Than Expected. Analysts thought production would bounce back 2% after a 3.1% drop last month, but output increased by only 1.4% in September. Bank Of America Lost Money Last Quarter. Bank of America has revised down its third-quarter earnings by $400 million amid a currency probe that has forced it to add to its legal reserves. The Home Depot Hack Was Bigger Than We Thought. "Home Depot Inc., the world's largest home improvement chain, said hackers stole about 53 million email addresses in addition to customer data for 56 million payment cards previously disclosed by the retailer," Reuters' Devita Krishna Kumar reported. "The company, which confirmed the breach in September, said the files that contained the email addresses did not include passwords, payment card information, or other sensitive personal information." Auto Parts Maker Takata Got Slammed By A New York Times Article. Shares in Takata fell more than 8% on Friday after The New York Times reported that the Japanese auto parts maker had concealed the risks of potentially defective air bags. The Cleveland Fed President Says Rates Are Going Up. The Federal Reserve will most likely raise interest rates next year because inflation, while a bit low now, remains stable and should rise to target by the end of 2016, Loretta Mester said. Fracking Firms Are Holding Up Despite The Oil Price Crash. Suppliers of sand to drillers of oil shale and gas say demand hasn't dropped.  Symantec Is Laying Off 2,000 Employees As It Splits. Symantec, the security software company that announced plans to split in half last month, will lay off roughly 2,000 employees, or about 10% of its total workforce over the next year, San Jose Mercury News reported Thursday. FREE AppDownload
The BLS will release its report on nonfarm payrolls for October at 8:30 a.m. ET. September's report was strong. The economy added 248,000 jobs and the unemployment rate fell to 5.9% — the first time unemployment fell below 6% in six years. After a few weeks of low jobless claims reports, economists expect this month's numbers to be nearly as strong. Here are consensus expectations for Friday's report: Last month, the labor force participation rate fell to 62.7% from 62.8%, and wages were flat month-over-month. Those two data points have lagged behind some of the headline indicators, and show a little more slack in the labor market than the unemployment rate and payrolls number would otherwise indicate. But other data points suggest a robust economy. Current jobless claims are at the lowest level since 2000. The ADP private payrolls report jumped to 230,000 this month, up from 225,000 in in September. And the latest ISM services employment index jumped to a 9-year high of 59.6 in October.. In a note to clients, Capital Economics writes, "It’s hard to ignore the fall in initial jobless claims further below 300,000 and the reasonably strong signals on hiring sent by the main activity surveys." Bank of America Merrill Lynch's weekly economic note had some detail on particular sectors: "We think hiring in the manufacturing sector should pick up after two months of unexpected softness. We also look for a solid gain in retail jobs as retailers prepare for the holiday shopping season. We think the public sector will add 10,000 jobs, implying private payroll growth of 225,000." Credit Suisse thinks there will be a revision higher in the September numbers, which has been a trend in the last few months. In addition, "the last five initial September prints were revised up by 40K on average. Eight of the last 10 September prints have been revised higher." UBS thinks average hourly earnings will tick up. They write in a note, "small firms are increasingly reporting wage increases and difficulty finding qualified workers, which suggests eventually increasing wage pressure in average hourly earnings." The BLS jobs report will be released at 8:30 a.m. ET. FREE AppDownload
Just after a midterm election that was driven by voters' anxiety about the U.S. economy, the government is likely Friday to report the latest strong monthly job gain. Employers are expected to have added 230,000 jobs in October, according to economists surveyed by FactSet. That would be in line with this year's average monthly gain of 227,000, the best since 1999. The unemployment rate is forecast to remain at a six-year low of 5.9 percent. The report will be released at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time. The healthy job growth has highlighted a contradiction laid bare by Tuesday's election results: According to most broad measures, the economy is improving steadily and nearing full health. Yet most Americans say they remain anxious about it. "I think there's a great deal of frustration that the economy should be doing better and that people feel they should be doing better," says Mark Vitner, an economist at Wells Fargo. That view was evident in Tuesday's exit poll results. Nearly 60 percent of voters said they thought the economy was stagnating or worsening. Only one-third saw it as improving. Those views took hold even as employers have been adding steadily more jobs and the economy has been expanding at a healthy pace. The picture has improved enough that the Federal Reserve announced last month that it was ending its bond purchase program, which had been intended to lower interest rates and stimulate economic growth. So why aren't Americans more cheerful? Analysts point to several factors. Better hiring and growth have barely boosted paychecks for the vast majority of earners. Adjusted for inflation, average hourly pay rose just 0.3 percent over the 12 months that ended in September, according to government data. And what wage gains have occurred have benefited mainly the wealthiest. Average income grew 10 percent from 2010 through 2013 for the wealthiest one-tenth of Americans, after adjusting for inflation, according to the Fed. For everyone else, incomes stagnated or declined. In addition, the pickup in hiring still hasn't been enough to fully repair the recession's damage, Vitner points out. There are 2.2 million fewer people with full-time jobs than in December 2007, when the recession officially began. Over the same time, the ranks of part-time workers have grown by 2.5 million, many of whom want full-time jobs. Further job gains may eventually reverse some of those trends. Payroll processor ADP estimated Wednesday that private businesses added 230,000 jobs in October, the most in four months. And last month, the average number of people who applied for unemployment benefits each week reached a 14-year low. Applications for unemployment aid reflect layoffs, so the dwindling number indicates that companies are cutting few jobs. That suggests they are confident that their customer demand will pick up. Analysts say the economic expansion is strong enough to support the current pace of hiring. Over the past six months, the economy has grown at a 4.1 percent annual rate. U.S. manufacturers are expanding at the fastest pace in three years, according to a survey by the Institute for Supply Management, a trade group. A measure of new orders showed that factory output will likely continue to grow in coming months. A separate survey by the ISM found that retailers, restaurants and other service companies grew at a healthy pace last month. Home sales rose in September at their fastest rate this year, a sign that housing could pick up after a sluggish performance for most of this year. Still, faltering global growth could create trouble for the U.S. economy in the months ahead. Exports fell in September, the government said this week, widening the trade deficit. That led many economists to shave their predictions of economic growth in the July-September quarter to an annual rate of 3 percent or less, down from the government's initial estimate of 3.5 percent. ___ Contact Chris Rugaber on Twitter at http://Twitter.com/ChrisRugaber Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe homepage to alleged Silk Road 2.0 website is seen in a screenshot after it was closed by U.S. authoritiesAMSTERDAM (Reuters) - U.S. and European authorities have arrested 16 suspected members of underground drugs and weapons cybermarkets this week, in addition to the alleged operator of the website known as Silk Road 2.0, Europe's police agency Europol said on Friday. U.S. authorities said on Thursday they had shut down Silk Road 2.0, the successor website to Silk Road, an underground online drugs marketplace, and charged its alleged operator, Blake Benthall, with conspiracy to commit drug trafficking, computer hacking, money laundering and other crimes. [ID:nL1N0SW1LY] Europol, in a statement, said U.S. and European cyber crime units, in a sweep across 18 countries, had netted $1 million worth of Bitcoin, the digital currency, 180,000 euros in cash, silver, gold and narcotics. Troels Oerting, the head of Europol's cybercrime center, said the operation had knocked out a significant part of the infrastructure for illegal online drugs and weapons trade in the countries involved but black market websites have mushroomed and are created easily. Raids were carried out in Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Finland, France, Germany, Hungary, Ireland, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Romania, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, United Kingdom and the United States, in an operation code-named "Onymous". Sixteen people operating illegal sites were arrested, Europol said, without specifying the charges. Around 400 Internet sites and domains, which had been used to sell child pornography, guns and murder-for-hire, were taken down on Thursday, it said. "They had set up complete business models, just like any web shop. They display what they sell; drugs, weapons, stolen credit cards. People paid and they delivered by the mailman," Oerting said. "There was even a ranking system for reliable suppliers." The illegal organizations used the so-called tor computer network, which allows users to communicate anonymously by masking their IP address, to run so-called "dark" markets. "We have also hit services on the Darknet using Tor where, for a long time, criminals have considered themselves beyond reach. We can now show that they are neither invisible nor untouchable." The operation involved Europol’s European Cybercrime Centre, the FBI and U.S. immigration and Homeland Security officials. Tor, short for the onion router, is also used by activists in countries where the web is censored.  (Reporting By Anthony Deutsch; Editing by Susan Fenton) FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Charles Krupa, REUTERS/Darren Staples  The English Premier League (EPL) may lag behind the top North American sports leagues in terms of total revenue, but during the 2012-13 season, the EPL outpaced its American counterpart, the National Football League, in commercial revenue, according to data provided by the Sports Business Group Deloitte and the sponsorship consultancy firm IEG. The figures for commercial revenue consist mostly of sponsorship deals with the leagues as a whole and singular teams or clubs. Selling these deals is clearly an art at which the English excel, as everything in the EPL now has a logo on it. Last year, the NFL saw its commercial revenues rise by 5.7%, up to £630 million ($1.07 billion). The Premier League surpassed that with almost £700 million ($1.1 billion). Stefano Pozzebon/Business Insider/Data: Deloitte, IEG Commercially speaking, it has been a fruitful time for English football. In 2010, the Premier League's revenues were only £450 million, meaning the league experienced a commercial revenue increase of 57% in just the last four years. With EPL leader Chelsea FC recently snagging a reported $16 million-a-year shirt deal with Turkish Airways, the revenue gap between the English and American leagues is set to grow even bigger.  In a June 2014 report, Dan Jones, a partner in the Sports Business Group at Deloitte, said: “Once again the global appeal of the Premier League has continued to drive commercial revenue growth, particularly at the highest ranked Premier League clubs. Matchday revenue also increased by 6% with fewer unsold seats at Premier League games than ever before.” Stefano Pozzebon/Business Insider/Data: Deloitte, IEG But just because the English League makes more money through sponsorship deals than the NFL, it does not mean that revenue is split evenly among clubs.  Technically, because only 20 teams compete in the Premier League — compared to the 32 of the NFL — English clubs should each pull in an average revenue that is almost double their American counterparts. But that's far from the case.  In the NFL, an idea known as "sport socialism" prevents an excessive concentration of wealth in the hands of a single team. That is the idea behind the salary cap, which limits the amount of money that any of the NFL's 32 teams can spend on a player's salary each year. As a result, 61% of total revenues — which includes a huge broadcasting contract not included in the charts above — is equally split among the teams.  That would be unthinkable in the Premier League, which is the economic equivalent of pre-Revolution France. Only six English clubs earn more than the average revenue (figure below). The Guardian DataLab reveals that in the 2012-2013 season, Arsenal, Chelsea, Liverpool, the two Manchester clubs, and Tottenham alone made 82% of the total commercial revenue, with the other 14 clubs splitting the rest. In the EPL, commercial revenue is tightly-linked to on-field performance. In August, Bloomberg noted that only this elite group, with the exception of Tottenham, have a real shot at winning the league. Stefano Pozzebon/Business Insider/Data: The Guardian In contrast, in the NFL, nine teams earned above the average in the 2012-13 season. Six more earned about average, meaning that 17 teams earned less than average. Among the teams that earned less than average were the Seattle Seahawks, which ended up winning the Superbowl — meaning that the link between revenues and on-field performance is not as strong in American football.Stefano Pozzebon/Business Insider/Data: IEG Additionally, Forbes calculated the total value of  all the NFL franchises and the top 20 European football clubs. Stefano Pozzebon/Business Insider/Data: Forbes In the chart above, the top five highest-earning American football teams (red bars) are all valued at more than £1 billion. Meanwhile, of the top five English clubs, only Manchester United exceeded that amount.  The highest-valued American team, the Dallas Cowboys, are barely worth twice as much as the fifth-highest valued team on the chart, the New York Jets. Manchester United, on the other hand, is worth five times more than Britain's fifth-highest valued team, Tottenham. These figures also include the stadium revenues, where English clubs suffer because of their smaller stadiums (and thus smaller crowds). The smallest figure recorded at the Washington Redskins' FedEx Arena, 56,000 spectators, is still much bigger than a sold-out stadium at Chelsea's Stamford Bridge, 42,000. The biggest difference, though, has to be broadcast revenue, where the NFL remains on top. That's because American broadcasters, who play in a market of 300 million spectators, have more money to spend than British broadcasters, such as BT, Sky, and the BBC, where the national audience is around one sixth of the American figure.  Stefano Pozzebon/Business Insider/Data: Deloitte, SportsBusinessDailyDeloitte calculated that the Premier League has cashed in only £1.11 billion for the 2013 season, down 5.5% from the previous year. This might also be related to a weaker performance in European competitions than in previous years: The more you advance in the Champions League, the more you earn from broadcasting rights, because you are playing more games and more important ones. The NFL instead earned an average of £1.9 billion ($3 billion) per year in the last few seasons, although the exact figure is hard to determine as it is made up of multi-year deals and local TV or radio broadcasting agreements with singular teams. As all but one NFL team are private entities who make a profit, they tend not to publish their budgets or disclose their deals. The Green Bay Packers are the only community-held team, similarly to football clubs such as Barcelona. They have to present their budget to the shareholders every year, and this is one of the strategies for estimating the profits of the whole league.  In conclusion: NFL teams earn more money through broadcasting because they reach a larger national audience and because these revenues are almost equally split among each others. Premier League clubs, or at least the very top teams, are better at signing sponsorship deals. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFile photo of Compton coupling railcars filled with sand to be transloaded for energy companies drilling natural gas wells in WellsboroNEW YORK (Reuters) - Unfazed by slumping oil prices and battering in the stock market, firms that supply sand and guar gum for shale oil and gas companies are not ready yet to call an end to a four-year boom spurred by hydraulic fracturing technology. Just putting on a brave face as a downturn looms? Perhaps, but the optimism could also reflect confidence that the U.S. shale industry is more resilient to retreating oil prices than investors might think. Oil prices have fallen 30 percent since late June and shares of such firms as U.S. Silica Holdings and Hi Crush, which supply sand to U.S. drillers, followed, dumped by investors anticipating 2015 output cuts and a drop in demand. However, the service companies say business remains as strong as ever. Furthermore, they point out that most of their supply has been bought under long term contracts meaning next year should be good too. "We have not seen any data or had any discussions that indicate lower demand for our sand," said Robert Rasmus, Co-Chief Executive Officer of sand producer Hi-Crush after the company reported record third quarter revenues this week. Hi Crush's share price has fallen more than 40 percent since the beginning of September, but Rasmus said almost 90 percent of the company's sand output was sold for 2015. His comments echoed those of other firms that supply sand and other materials to oil drillers. U.S. Silica Holdings, whose oil and gas sector revenues doubled in the third quarter of this year, remains upbeat about its outlook. "We are actively engaged in conversations with our customers about their future growth, and none has brought down their estimated requirements," chief executive officer Bryan Shinn told investors last week. Demand for sand and the powder-like gum made from guar seeds has soared in recent years. Both are used in what is known as "completion" of an oil well, which occurs after drilling and during fracking to keep open tiny fractures in shale rock to allow oil to escape.   REBOUND HOPES? Analysts say that in contrast to investors who have already priced in a drop in 2015 output because of sliding oil prices, service firms may still hope for a rebound and hold off with cutting their outlooks. Their optimism could also be a sign that the shale oil boom, which has transformed U.S. energy industry since the end of last decade, has enough momentum to keep output and service firms' business rising next year and perhaps beyond even as some drillers already start cutting their 2015 investment plans. Industry experts say existing wells that have been drilled but not yet fracked will keep output surging for months and many have hedged next year's production well above current prices. Furthermore, while U.S. oil prices hit a three-year low below $76 a barrel this week, several shale oil firms have indicated they would remain profitable if prices stayed above $70. That said, a further slide and protracted weakness could force shale oil companies and their suppliers, many of which have yet to weather a downturn, to pull back. Some clouds are already appearing. Diamondback Energy, an oil producer in the Permian Basin in Texas, said this week that it would start 2015 with five drilling rigs and wait to see what oil prices do before adding three more rigs as earlier planned. Other firms have also signaled potential 2015 spending cuts should oil prices remain low or slide further, eventually weighing on their suppliers' business. Analysts are closely watching the oil rig count for any early signs of a slowdown. The number of oil rigs in North America is near all-time high, according to a weekly survey from service firm Baker Hughes. "It all depends how low oil prices go and how long they stay there - and the jury is still out on that," said Judith Dwarkin, director of energy research at ITG Investment Research in Calgary. "We will be watching the rig deployment." In the meantime, some firms still bet on a continued shale boom. United Guar, a Houston-based firm that supplies guar gum to U.S. drillers, plans to triple its processing capacity over the next 18 months, the company's chief executive Aamer Safraz said in an interview, confident that prices will recover. "I don't care if fracking slows in the United States," Safraz said. "You have to take a longer term view." (Reporting By Edward McAllister; Editing by Tomasz Janowski) FREE AppDownload
Getty Images EuropeIt's an endless debate, and a matter of great pride in both cities. Which of the world's two most financialised, globalisation-cheering megacities can reasonably be described as the world's capital? One hundred and fifty years ago, the answer was indisputably London. Fifty years ago, the answer was indisputably New York. Now? Well it's not so clear. Here's Business Insider UK's best case that it's London, not New York, that deserves the crown.   In terms of stock exchanges, calling London the world's financial capital looks ludicrous. The London Stock Exchange isn't even the second-largest stock exchange in the world after the New York Stock Exchange. It's the fourth (after the Nasdaq and Tokyo).  But this is totally unfair to London: The volume of equities trading done on the London Stock Exchange doesn’t capture at all equities trading done in any one place — just the ones local to that economy. So of course London’s stock exchange is smaller than New York’s: the UK’s economy is much smaller than that of the US. But we’re comparing the cities here, not the countries. So it's good to look at a more international measure of finance: currency markets. In terms of foreign exchange market turnover, the UK isn’t just the leader, it's still gaining ground, according to the Bank of International Settlements. In 1998, 32.6% of the world’s forex trading was done in the UK (almost all of which takes place in London), against 18.3% in the US. By 2013, the UK had grown to make up 40.9% of the global market, seeing a daily average of $2.73 trillion in turnover. Every day. When the Boston Consulting Group polled more than 200,000 people in 189 countries, London trounced the rest of the world when it came to where they would move to work. Unprompted, 16% of respondents said they would move to the city, well clear of New York's 12.2%. Boston Consulting Group That’s not entirely surprising when you look at London’s demographic makeup. Three million of London’s 8 million inhabitants were born outside of the UK. In fact, the non-UK born population makes up 105% of the city's population growth between the 2001 and 2011 censuses. (Why 105%? Because native Brits left, causing negative growth, and the immigrants more than eclipsed that.) What’s more, the eurozone’s dismal growth prospects and eye-watering rates in youth unemployment mean this trend probably isn’t going to slow anytime soon. The number of people moving to the UK from the rest of Europe has increased significantly. In 2007-2008, 15,400 Italians registered to work in the UK, a figure that was up to 44,110 by 2013. Europe’s young workforce is increasingly migrating to the UK (where its workers don’t need visas to live and work), and a huge number seek out London. One of the most well-educated generations in history is streaming to London to live and work, and that's an enormous benefit to the city.   London reigns at the top of Knight Frank’s global wealth report in 2014. Endless anecdotes in the reports show exactly where the world's wealthiest people want to own homes, and the British capital comes out ahead of New York. The cost of buying and renting is something that makes Londoners want to weep: but it's a side effect of the city's incredible success.   In 2012-2013, 49% of buyers in London's prime central market were not British, illustrating the huge demand from abroad. And they're not just buying to hold property as an investment: Only 28% of buyers live outside the UK, showing that a huge number of international buyers want to live in the city. Deloitte London-based media organizations dramatically outperform in Comscore’s English-language ratings. The two biggest English-language newspaper websites in the world are London-based British organisations. The Daily Mail’s Mail Online and The Guardian's website have broken into first and second place, according to comScore’s traffic figures. That's even accounting for the fact that New York-based newspapers have a far bigger native American audience than London-based newspapers can find in the UK. A Deloitte survey puts London not only as the world's leader of highly skilled workers in media (particularly digital media), but as one of the areas in which it is extending a lead over the others. Check out the chart above. The report suggests that although US cities take the lead in terms of film and TV, the London is way out ahead in terms of digital media. According to Japan’s Institute for Urban Strategies, London takes a commanding lead over New York (and every other major city) on cultural grounds. That is based on a blend of cultural resources, facilities for visitors, and how trendsetting the city is. REUTERS/Suzanne PlunkettThe Tall Ship Tectona, built in India in 1929, is moored outside the Old Royal Naval College at Greenwich, the location of one of London's Unesco world heritage sites. Part of this stems from a history that New York simply can't match: in the 19th century, it became only the second city since the fall of the Roman Empire to reach a population of over one million. Attractions like Westminster Hall (the great hall of the UK's parliament) are almost twice as old as European colonization in the Americas, and four times older than the US as a country. London has four UN world heritage sites, against New York’s one.  It's not just British culture that is on offer. In GfK's survey of more than 5,000 people who visited some of the world's biggest cities, London ranks highest when visitors are asked whether they can "find people who appreciate my culture and with whom I could easily fit in." So, sorry, New York. Sorry Seoul. Sorry Paris. Sorry Shanghai. Sorry Singapore. Sorry Hong Kong. For now, London is the world's global capital. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA Plaque on the U.S. Bankruptcy Court building in New YorkNEW YORK (Reuters) - The stable of judges on Manhattan's federal bankruptcy court is undergoing dramatic turnover that could bring more uncertainty to one of the go-to venues for rescuing companies on the brink of financial ruin. In January, Robert Gerber, the judge overseeing litigation stemming from the General Motors' ignition-switch recall debacle, will assume "recall" status, allowing court administrators to hire a new judge, people familiar with the matter told Reuters. Two more judges are expected to join the court early next year, meaning that by the end of 2015 a third of the nine-member bench will be new, and at least four veteran judges will have left the bench since 2012. It is the first time since 2000 that at least three new judges will join the New York court within a year and the change may affect the pace of the court's proceedings, the lawyers' fees and even the court's case load. Under recall status, common for long-serving bankruptcy judges, Gerber will technically retire but continue to serve. According to one person, Gerber is considering leaving for good at the end of 2015. His chambers declined to comment and he has not announced any such plans publicly. Also gone or leaving are Judge James Peck, who handled Lehman Brothers' liquidation, and Judge Allan Gropper, who adjudicated Kodak’s restructuring and has announced his retirement. Replacements for Peck and Gropper have been selected and are undergoing background checks, according to Karen Milton, circuit executive for the Second Circuit, which oversees judge succession in Manhattan. Bankruptcy judges are not political appointees. Unlike federal judges nominated by the president and confirmed by the U.S. Senate, bankruptcy judges are selected by a panel of federal judges in their district. They are appointed to 14-year terms, are not term-limited and can retire any time. Gerber, a 15-year veteran known as a thoughtful if occasionally ornery courtroom sheriff, has overseen a number of big bankruptcies, including those of chemical company LyondellBasell, satellite operator TerreStar and GM's whirlwind Chapter 11 sale in 2009. Among the largest items left on his docket is litigation over whether GM can invoke the terms of the sale to shield itself from claims that it covered up ignition switch defects prior to its bankruptcy. The case, in which Gerber has to decide whether to invalidate an order that he himself approved, would stay in his courtroom as long as he continued to serve on recall status and would go to a new judge if the case dragged on beyond his departure. A judge with less personal history in the GM case might rule differently on the validity of the liability shield. Still, it is impossible to tell how a new judge would view future legal arguments, though any conclusions already reached in the case would probably be honored by the new judge. Bench turnover can slow things down in busy courthouses as new judges get up to speed. They even attend an orientation seminar known as "Baby Judges School." A departing judge's most complex cases, however, would not necessarily go to that judge's successor. For example, when Peck retired, Lehman went to incumbent Judge Shelley Chapman, who has quickly taken the reins and issued complex decisions. Where new judges could have the biggest impact is behind the scenes. While all judges apply the same federal bankruptcy law, they employ various strategies to foster cooperation between warring stakeholders and take different approaches to issues such as scheduling or settlement talks. Unlike in other areas of law, judges also get to approve bankruptcy lawyers' fees because every dollar for lawyers is a dollar less for creditors. With top-tier partners charging $1,000 or more an hour, New York lawyers will be watching for any signs of the court getting tougher on fees, which might persuade some to take their cases elsewhere. "One of the things that drives bankruptcy lawyers to file in New York is they (the judges) are kind and friendly on professional fees," said one lawyer. Judges from outside the New York bankruptcy industry could be stricter because they are not used to such hefty fees, said bankruptcy expert Stephen Lubben, a professor at Seton Hall University School of Law. But more likely, Lubben said, the new judges will be ex-bankruptcy lawyers from New York familiar with practices there. One widely rumored candidate to fill one of the currently open seats is former Judge James Garrity, who now heads Morgan Lewis &amp; Bockius' restructuring practice. Garrity, who served as a Manhattan bankruptcy judge from 1991 through 1999, did not return a call seeking comment. Milton declined to comment on Garrity, or on Gerber's plans. Judge Burton Lifland, who presided over litigation from Bernard Madoff's Ponzi scheme, died this year, while former chief Judge Arthur Gonzalez, of Chrysler and Enron fame, left in 2012. Due to the nature of their status, Lifland and Gonzalez will not be replaced, but their departures represent key veteran losses for the court. (Reporting by Nick Brown; Editing by Tom Hals and Tomasz Janowski) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kai Pfaffenbach A Takata interactive steering wheel during a media preview day at the Frankfurt Motor Show.Shares in Takata Corp. fell more than 8% as of 1 a.m. ET on Friday, reversing earlier gains after The New York Times reported that the Japanese auto parts maker had concealed the risks of potentially defective air bags following an accident in 2004. The New York Times reported Takata had secretly conducted tests on 50 airbags retrieved from scrap yards after an accident in Alabama, with results showing cracks in steel inflators in two of the air bags. Citing two former Takata employees, The Times said Takata executives ordered the lab technicians to delete the test data instead of alerting federal safety regulators to the possible danger. Takata could not immediately be reached for comment. FREE AppDownload
