Getty Images/ Alan Crowhurst Expect to see monetary policy continue to diverge, inflation to remain within central bank targets and growth to slow. We at J.P. Morgan Asset Management just published our Long-Term Capital Market Return Assumptions for 2015. These are our central case expectations for asset class returns, volatilities and correlations over the next ten to 15 years and are built to reflect long-term market trends and be independent of the present stage in the business cycle. The overarching theme is that the global economy is back on track toward normalization. We expect to continue to see  global monetary policy divergence over the next ten to 15 years. In particular, we expect the  U.S. Federal Reserve and the  Bank of England to begin to raise interest rates and continue to do so over the next three years, whereas the  European Central Bank and the  Bank of Japan are both set to extend accommodative monetary policies. We don’t expect these central banks to start raising rates until 2018. Institutional Investor We expect inflation to remain broadly within central bank target ranges and economic growth to be slower than in recent years. The link between macroeconomic conditions and asset class returns is complex and uncertain. When we set our forecasts for asset class returns, we start with our long-run macroeconomic outlook and then integrate the specific characteristics of each asset class over the time period in question. With these factors in mind, our long-term nominal expected returns for U.S. Treasuries, corporate bonds and equities are generally lower than they were last year, and the implied risk premiums suggest a lesser mitigation of risk than was assumed last year. The expected returns that we publish for each asset class are meant to be a summary of our views, rather than an exact forecast. It is, of course, difficult to predict asset class returns over a horizon of ten to 15 years. Some investors fall into the trap of directly applying the long-term capital market assumptions into portfolio construction algorithms without taking into account any uncertainty and also without considering potential asymmetry in asset class returns. In other words, traditional approaches to portfolio construction assume that predicted long-term expected returns are correct to the decimal place, rather than being a general overview. They also assume that returns are just as likely to exceed as to fall below expectations. In reality, asset class returns are typically asymmetrical. It is essential to model asset class returns and risks correctly, taking proper account of the nonnormality of asset returns and looking beyond volatility as the main measure of portfolio risk. By doing so, the long-term capital market assumptions can enable investors to better quantify the trade-offs between the relative risk premiums across asset classes and across different geographical regions; understand how to think about portfolio diversification; and determine which nominal or real return target is appropriate for a given target volatility or downside risk measure. This year, as last year, we analyzed the accuracy of our long-term capital market assumptions over the past ten years. This was a particularly volatile and uncertain decade characterized by a credit boom followed by a spectacular bust, resulting in a negative outlook for asset values and economies around the world. Over this period, a strategic portfolio weighted 50 percent in equities, 30 percent in bonds, 12 percent in hedge funds, 5 percent in private equity and 3 percent in direct real estate would have achieved an annualized return of 7.3 percent, compared with our expected annualized return of 7.1 percent. This is a reassuring result. Alexandre Christie is a global strategist for the Investment Management – Solutions Group at J.P. Morgan Asset Management in London. For more information, please visit our Long-Term Capital Market Assumptions 2015 website.  See J.P. Morgan’s disclaimer. Get more on banking and capital markets. FREE AppDownload
ReutersFrom left, Sen. Roy Blunt (R-Missouri), Sen. John Barrasso (R-Wyoming), Sen. John Thune (R-South Dakota), Senate Minority Whip John Cornyn of Texas, and Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky during a news conference on Capitol Hill in Washington on Tuesday.A bill to approve the Keystone XL pipeline was defeated in the Senate on Tuesday. The Senate voted 59-41, putting the bill one vote shy of the 60 it needed to reach the White House.  President Barack Obama did not support the bill to approve the pipeline, which would have carried petroleum from Canada's oil sands to the Gulf Coast. The White House has not indicated whether he would have vetoed the bill if it were approved. However, last week, Obama spoke out against the bill during a trip to Asia, and his comments were widely seen as a sign he would ultimately block the pipeline.  The Republican-led House of Representatives passed a vote to approve the pipeline on Friday, and GOP senators pushed to pass similar legislation. Sen. Mitch McConnell (R-Kentucky), who is set to become the majority leader next year following the GOP's Senate takeover in the midterm elections earlier this month, issued a statement after the vote vowing he would take up the matter again when his party is in control.  "Tonight, Senate Democrats once again stood in the way of a shovel-ready jobs project that would help thousands of Americans find work — a remarkable stance after an election in which the American people sent a clear message to Congress to approve serious policies like the Keystone XL Pipeline and get the Senate working again," McConnell said. "Unfortunately, many Senate Democrats failed to hear that message. But once the 114th Congress convenes, the Senate will act again on this important legislation, and I look forward to the new Republican majority taking up and passing the Keystone jobs bill early in the New Year." After the Senate vote, the Republican National Committee issued a statement criticizing Democrats for blocking the pipeline. "Today Democrat dysfunction once again prevailed over a job-creating project voters overwhelmingly support and is firmly in the national interest," the statement said. One Democrat, Sen. Mary Landrieu of Louisiana, was aggressively lobbying on behalf of the bill. Landrieu is engaged in a tough runoff race to keep her seat against Republican Rep. Bill Cassidy, who authored the House pipeline bill. Because of the large number of oil industry jobs in Louisiana, the pipeline is quite popular with voters there. Louisiana's Senate runoff is scheduled for Dec. 6, and polls indicate Landrieu is facing an uphill battle.  The RNC characterized the Senate vote as proof Landrieu was effective only "when it comes to delivering for President Obama." "Louisianans can send another strong message to President Obama by firing Senator Landrieu and replacing her with the effective, pro-energy leadership of Bill Cassidy," the statement said.  The pipeline was strongly opposed by environmental groups. Following the Senate vote, Sierra Club executive director Michael Brune released a statement praising the Senate vote.  "We applaud the Senators who stood up for the health of our families and our climate by fighting back against this big polluter-funded sideshow. There’s no good reason the Senate should have wasted all this time on yet another meaningless push for Keystone XL," Brune said. "Since day one, the decision on the pipeline has belonged to President Obama, and he has repeatedly said he will reject this pipeline if it contributes to the climate crisis. As there is no doubt that it does, we remain confident that is precisely what he’ll do." FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersBudget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan (R-WI) walks from a Republican caucus meeting at the Capitol in Washington(Reuters) - Wisconsin Representative Paul Ryan has been tapped by Republican leaders to chair the tax-writing Committee on Ways and Means in the U.S. House of Representatives during the next congressional session. Ryan, the outgoing head of the House budget panel and Ways and Means member since 2000, was recommended by the Republican Steering Committee on Tuesday for the post. Recommended committee leaders will be ratified by Republican lawmakers at a later date. "We have a lot of work to do to get our economy back on track, and the Ways and Means Committee will be at the forefront of reform," Ryan said. The panel has jurisdiction over funding the U.S. government funding through taxes, and programs such as Social Security and Medicare.   (Reporting By Amanda Becker and David Lawder; Editing by Sandra Maler) FREE AppDownload
YouTube / Charlie RoseJeremy GranthamOur potential for economic growth is limited by the world's finite resources. Most forecasting models incorrectly assume endless growth. However, the laws of physics will not be defied by economics. These are the main takeaways from the latest investor letter by GMO's Jeremy Grantham. Over the last few months, the price of oil has tumbled from well north of $100 to below $80. Some would say this is likely to result is cheaper gas prices, serving as a boon for the US consumer and potentially US corporations. However, these forecasts are short-sighted. Grantham looks at oil from a far broader perspective, unpacking the commodity's role in the last 150 or so years of economic development and arguing that the serial mispricing and misallocation of oil has lead us to a place where oil's cost has, and will, continue to hamper potential economic growth. "We assume the oil or coal, our finite and amazing inheritance, is free and price it just at its extraction cost plus a profit margin," Grantham writes. And by treating this finite resource as something infinite, Grantham says we have ignored the second law of thermodynamics: that entropy increases over time as the energy in a system dissipates. And so under this framework, Grantham sees the increasingly globalized economy not as a system that is compounding to become more potent, but that is, rather, converging towards increased impotency.  "We owe almost everything we have had in the way of scientific and economic progress and the growth of the world’s food supplies and population to fossil fuels," Grantham writes. "And not simply to the availability of these fuels, but more precisely to the availability of those fossil resources that could be captured extremely cheaply." Library Of CongressOil has been crucal for the growth in the 20th century.For about 100 years, from 1870 to 1970, the price of oil was roughly pegged at about $16 a barrel in today's currency. Over this period, though, Americans became six times richer and therefore could handle the very substantial increases in energy witnessed over the last 30 or 40 years, driving up the size and complexity of our economic system.  This is what Grantham refers to as the "economic surplus" we enjoyed with respect to oil: since oil costs remained so low as a percentage of our earnings we failed to realize how much we'd come depend on that benefit. As Grantham writes: "If it’s true that oil’s economic surplus has accounted for so much of our growth, then what we should have seen since about 2004 as the price of oil began to break out way over its long-term trend was some grinding of the economy’s gears: a persistent seeming reluctance on the part of the economy to live up to expectations. And this, in my opinion, is precisely what we have seen: a broad and increasing tendency for all countries to disappoint compared to their earlier growth rates."  And Grantham doesn't see these expected productivity rates coming back. When Grantham writes about the amount of oil the American worker can buy with one hour's wages, this is the chart he references. BMO Capital This is a somewhat convoluted chart, and again, the text that accompanies it is only more dense, but the idea that Grantham is driving at here is that the more expensive oil becomes relative to our earnings, the less oil benefits us economically.  And so currently, the average worker's earnings buy about 20% of a barrel of oil, roughly what they did in 1940 before the huge manufacturing boom that made the US the global economic superpower of the 20th century.  For Grantham, this chart shows, "a remarkable round trip and what a lot it says about the preeminence of oil in our economy. When oil was becoming more affordable up to 1972 and oil intensity per person was still increasing, productivity per man hour grew at an unprecedented rate of 3.1% a year.  "From then until now as affordability fell and oil usage per person fell, productivity per man hour fell with it to 1.1%. This is not a small shift! 3.1% will take $1 to $21 in 100 years, where 1.1% will make it to barely $3. But to rub this point in, the productivity from 2000 to now has fallen to 0.8% a year at which rate $1 just about doubles in 100 years." And so the upshot here is that as oil got more expensive not just in nominal but also real terms, this cost ate into our productivity not just in the near-term but over the long-term.  In the last ten years, the US has enjoyed an "energy renaissance" courtesy of the fracking boom that has taken hold in places like Texas and North Dakota. But Grantham isn't sold on this "boom's" robustness.  "First, let us quickly admit that U.S. fracking is a very large herring," Grantham writes. Process Industry Forum via Google ImagesHorizontal drilling and hydraulic fracking have been technological gamechangers."Its development has been remarkable. It will surely be seen in the future as a real testimonial to the sheer energy of American engineering at its best, employing rapid trials and errors – with all of the risk-taking that approach involves – that the rest of the world finds so hard to emulate. Similarly, it will always stand out as remarkable proof that, so late in the realization of the risks of climate change and environmental damage, the U.S. could expressly deregulate such a rapidly growing and potentially dangerous activity." Grantham writes that there are few regulations regarding fracking, which has given the US an advantage over other potential projects, and nearly 100% of the global oil production over the last eight years has been due to fracking.  But for Grantham, the "red herring-ness" of fracking comes it what it hasn't done. "It has not prevented the underlying costs of traditional oil from continuing to rise rapidly or the cash flow available to oil-producing countries like Saudi Arabia, Iran, and especially Venezuela from getting squeezed from both ends (rising costs and falling prices)... Yes, they have been drilling more wells that chew up money, but not that many more, and good operations have lowered the costs per well by over a third. On the other hand they have drilled, as always, the best parts of the best fields first, and because the first two years of flow are basically all we get in fracking, we should have expected considerably better financial results by now. The aggregate financial results allow for the possibility that fracking costs have been underestimated by corporations and understated in the press."  This gloomy outlook is not new for Grantham. For years, Grantham has been considered a 'Malthusian,' which is basically the worldview that the number of people will overrun the amount of resources on Earth available to sustain the population.  And his most recent outlook sees him reiterate this view, but this time with a specific eye towards the economics establishment and the logical fallacy underwriting the core assumption of modern economic thought. "[T]he economic mainstream has totally missed the significance of the limits on growth posed by finite resources and again marginalized the work of Kenneth Boulding and Nicholas Georgescu-Roegen and the writers of the original 'The Limits to Growth,' who did," Grantham writes. "As with inefficient and corrupt market players in finance, they simply assume such limits away, in disregard of at least one of the laws of physics (that entropy rules and everything runs downhill, becoming less useful). This neglect of resources, like their last failure in finance, is likely to end very badly. Meanwhile, they try to define all of our problems in monetary, debt, and interest rate language, ignoring the real world of people and things. The economic establishment is letting us down again." And so again, all in, Grantham hammers on themes he has discussed at length in the past: dwindling resources, dim prospects for future growth, and the flaws of our economic frameworks.  You can read the whole GMO letter here, and while Grantham's writing is extremely dense, and you may not agree with some (or any) of his ideas, he challenges received wisdoms and is worth spending some time with. FREE AppDownload
Parsley EnergyIn May, oil executive Bryan Sheffield became the only self-made billionaire under 40 on Bloomberg’s Billionaire index who didn’t come from a tech background. Sadly for him, it didn’t last long. The recent drop in oil prices has already dragged him back down to the ranks of the multi-millionaires, Bloomberg reported. Sheffield grew up in Texas in an oil family. His father worked for Parker &amp; Parsley Petroleum and later for Pioneer Natural Resources. But, according to Bloomberg, young Bryan wanted to work in finance and moved to Chicago to trade futures. He never made more than $100,000 a year — even when he was living on the Spanish coast and trading German bonds in Gibraltar, Bloomberg reported. So he moved back to Texas to learn the family business. Soon, he began to build his own drilling company, Parsley Energy. It was 2009, right when fracking — or hydraulic fracturing, which uses hydraulically pressurized chemicals to fracture oil-rich rock bases — was starting to take hold as a popular drilling technique. Things took off for Sheffield, and he earned his billionaire ranking in May 2014, when he took his company public. But today, benchmark crude futures have fallen to around $75 a barrel, according to Bloomberg — well below the $90 mark where they’ve hovered the past few years. Parsley’s shares, of which Sheffield holds more than 14 percent, have dropped about 10 percent below their $18.50 IPO price. But who knows, at the rate this guy is going, he could be rolling in the deep again in no time. FREE AppDownload
Michael Nagle/GettyFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisers.  Cyberattacks On The Finance Industry Have Doubled This Year (Financial Adviser Magazine)  "Cyber assaults against the financial services companies nearly doubled this year, according to a report issued Monday by PwC," reports Ted Knutson. "Twenty percent of companies surveyed said they had a cyber breach by a competitor in 2014, compared to 11 percent in 2013." It's not only competitors that are trying to hack financial services companies — 44% of companies reported that an employee attempted to breach the system, up from 33%, and 28% of companies were cyber-assaulted by an ex-employee, up from 23%. There is some good news: Cyber assaults by outsiders have declined and are down to 26% from last year's 36%. Europe Isn't A Complete Graveyard Yet (Advisor Perspectives) The European economy has struggled recently: Emerging markets have slowed, the crisis in Ukraine has escalated, and there are never-ending cyclical and structure problems. However, that doesn't mean that investors should look away.  Because Europe is primarily export-driven, the region should benefit from a lower euro. Plus, "better-than-expected US growth" should contribute to the European economy, according to Heather Arnold. "We are finding potential opportunity across the board in Europe, but most notably in the energy sector given recent weakness there. Despite their recovery to date, financials are still lowly priced and continue to offer recovery potential, in our view. We also believe select pharmaceutical and health care stocks have a leg of growth ahead of them that we think is not reflect in current valuations," writes Arnold. Investors Have Calmed Down After October (Investment News) "October delivered on two historical points for which the month is renowned: a dramatic selloff and a pivotal rebound," writes Gene Peroni. "The short-lived sell offs in them major stock market indexes earlier this year proved to be springboards for short-term rebounds to record high levels." Investors have calmed down after the slingshot rebound, because it eliminated fears of a major pullback. Additionally, following better-than-expected earnings in Q3, investors believe that there is still room for significant growth. "I maintain that my revised year-end target of 18,500 could be attainable. As for my longer term, my bullish refrain 'the best is yet to come,' applies," writes Peroni. Morgan Stanley Advisers Will See Up To 15% Of Their Bonuses Deferred (The Wall Street Journal)  Morgan Stanley financial advisers will now have to wait to receive between 1.5% and 15.5% of their cash and stock bonuses. "For 2015, the bank's wealth-management division is tweaking its pay scheme so that a slightly bigger portion of adviser compensation will be deferred, although a bulk of it still will be paid out immediately, according to one person with knowledge of the matter," reports Michael Wursthorn. Morgan Stanley considers this change "simpler and more transparent," although one adviser stated that this made him feel "handcuffed." "It won't make [advisers] not come and it won't drive people out. But for somebody looking to go, could this be something that breaks the camel's back? It may," said Mindy Diamond. Steve Cohen Goes Big Into Schorsch's RCAP (Wealth Management)  Steve Cohen has increased his stake Nicholas Schorsch's RCAP up to 3.4 million shares, up from 548,000, according to Diana Britton. The timing is extremely interesting as ARCP (RCAP's sister company, also owned by Schorsch) recently announced a $23 million accounting error. Many broker/dealers have suspended sales of ARCP products in light of the error. "Of the 31 investment products that RCAP distributes through its wholesale broker/dealer, 14 of them are affiliated with American Realty," reports Britton. Cohen's hedge fund, SAC Capital, was indicted for securities fraud in 2013. His firm was renamed Point72 Asset Manager after the indictment, and he transitioned the firm into a family office.   FREE AppDownload
Goldman SachsGoldman Sachs looked at the next year of projected federal spending in a research note out today. After a relatively austere 2013 and a flat 2014, Goldman expects federal spending to have either no impact or a slightly negative impact on real GDP. Congressional spending is trending downward, but there are a couple of reasons it might tick up, according to the note, mostly related to possible emergency defense spending (read: Iraq).  The chart above right shows how much federal spending and taxes have contributed to real GDP, and how much they are projected to over the next five quarters. With a Republican majority in both houses of Congress, an uptick in non-defense spending over the next couple of years seems even more unlikely than it might have been a couple of months ago. And here's a look at just federal spending: Goldman Sachs FREE AppDownload
REUTERSStocks rallied on Tuesday, with the Dow and the S&amp;P 500 both making fresh all-time highs as the S&amp;P 500 closed above the 2,050 level for the first time. Meanwhile, the price of oil fell again, with West Texas Intermediate crude falling more than 1.5% to back below $74.50.  First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Tuesday: 1. On Tuesday morning we got inflation data from the producer price index, which showed that prices rose 0.2% month-on-month in October, beating expectations for a 0.1% decline. Excluding food and energy, prices rose 0.4%, topping estimates for a 0.1% increase, though these data were the result of a weird quirk. Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro, in a note following the report, said that when crude oil falls, input costs to gas stations drop immediately, but retail prices adjust less quickly, therefore recording a temporary increase in the services component of PPI. Crude oil prices fell 9.8% month-on-month in October. 2. Data from the National Association of Home Builders showed that homebuilder confidence rose to 58 in November, up from 54 last month and just a point below September's reading of 59, which marked a post-crisis high. Shepherdson said the report showed a nice rebound, but cautioned that the long-term relationship between the index and official new home sales numbers has "substantially" overstated sales the past couple of years.  3. Back in October, inflation expectations in the form of "breakevens" were all the rage. Near the market bottom on October 15, breakevens had fallen back towards levels that in the past saw the Fed embark on a new round of quantitative easing. However, at the end of the month, the Fed elected to end QE, and while the stock market has bounced back to make new all-time highs, inflation expectations have tumbled back towards their mid-October lows. Just something to keep an eye on.  4. Apple shares climbed again on Tuesday, adding more than 1% to close north of $115, as analysts continue to raise their price target on shares of the iPhone maker. Business Insider's Jay Yarow reported Tuesday that analysts at BTIG Research upped their price target on Apple to $135 from $128 for a new, innovative reason: selfies. The firm believes that the "selfie craze" and the enhanced camera features on iPhone 6 could serve as a positive catalyst for sales of the device.  5. A new academic paper suggests that if your company's CEO is playing lots of golf, your company could be underperforming. Among the report's finding are that the number of golf rounds a CEO is negatively correlated with changes in firm profitability, and that one S&amp;P 1500 CEO played 146 rounds during a fiscal year. 6. Zoetis, the animal health company that Bill Ackman holds a 10% stake in said on Tuesday that its profit for 2015 would come in below expectations. Shares of Zoetis were halted for trade ahead of the announcement, as the company has been seen as a potential takeover target in the wake of Monday's news that Actavis would acquire Allergan, the Botox-maker that Ackman had been seeking to acquire with Valeant Pharmaceuticals.  Don't Miss: The West Can Only Dream Of Japan's 'Failure' » FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTony James, President of the Blackstone Group, arrives as a panel member for the breakout session at the Clinton Global Initiative 2014 (CGI) in New YorkNEW YORK (Reuters) - Blackstone Group LP has reached out to its biggest fund investors about investing in a new investment vehicle with a longer investment horizon than the typical 10-year private equity fund, according to people familiar with the matter. Dubbed "core" private equity, this vehicle would invest in slower-growing but safer companies, use less debt in buyouts and charge investors lower fees than most private equity funds, these people said. Blackstone is seeking as much as $2 billion apiece from five to six of its biggest public pension fund and sovereign wealth fund investors for the strategy, the people said. Aspects of the strategy, including the exact fees and holding periods for investments, are still being worked out, these people said. They added that the idea is still at an exploratory stage and may not take off. A Blackstone spokesman declined to comment. The biggest investors in Blackstone's funds include the California Public Employees' Retirement System, the New Jersey State Investment Council and China Investment Corp. The move underscores how Blackstone is looking to boost its valuation as a publicly listed company by managing more permanent capital and further diversifying its model of buying and selling companies. Blackstone is already the world's largest alternative asset manager, with $284.4 billion in assets under management as of the end of September spanning private equity, real estate, credit and funds of hedge funds. A higher stock valuation would benefit Blackstone shareholders, of whom the company's employees form the largest group. Chief Executive Stephen Schwarzman is the biggest holder by far, owning about a fifth of the firm. In 2013, Schwarzman collected $352.5 million from dividends from his Blackstone shares. The new strategy also would help Blackstone address what has been a frustration for some buyout firms and a source of envy when they compare their investment vehicles with Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway Inc. In this vehicle, Blackstone would not be forced to sell successful companies too soon because the fund is running out of time. Most private equity investors however, also known as limited partners, prefer the traditional buyouts because they deliver high annualized returns. The prospect of lower returns may not be an easy sell. "The fact that investors will pay lower fees is positive. But the question is whether the net returns will still be high enough to justify investing in such a product as opposed to publicly listed stocks," said Steven Kaplan, a University of Chicago finance professor whose research focuses on private equity.    In June, at Blackstone's annual shareholder meeting, President Tony James acknowledged that the core private equity model would have challenges. Limited partners in its funds would likely say no to the prospect of a 10 percent to 12 percent return for a high-quality company when they can get 18 percent to 20 percent for private equity, James said. But he added that there could be ways around that. The "core" model approach has already been applied to some alternative asset classes. Core real estate, for example, involves investing in safer, long-lease assets with less debt rather than riskier fixer-upper properties. Blackstone, based in New York, began investing in what it calls core-plus real estate this year through separately managed investor accounts before combining them into a co-mingled fund. Blackstone is embarking on its core private equity initiative also through separately managed accounts, the people said. A few firms such as General Atlantic LLC and Golden Gate Capital have also raised so-called evergreen or perpetual funds to invest in private equity, but they target the higher returns that Blackstone's traditional private equity business does. Blackstone, which does not want to abandon its established private equity business, has had to look at a differentiated "core" strategy to avoid conflicts with its traditional private equity funds, the sources said. The firm first made its pitch on the new strategy to investors last summer at its annual limited partner summit in a confidential presentation, a copy of which was seen by Reuters. Limited partners were told a 20-year core private equity fund could deliver 1.8 times the profit on capital invested in succession over the same period in three conventional private equity funds. The example assumes a 12 percent internal rate of return for a core private equity fund and 20 percent IRR for a traditional fund. This is because only up to two-thirds of the capital committed to a traditional private equity fund is invested at any one time, limited partners were told. As against that, Blackstone would invest the entire capital raised in a core private equity in one-go. The costs of buying and selling companies also add up over time, according to the presentation. The popularity of the strategy may come down to the fees investors are charged. While these have not been decided, Blackstone in its limited partner presentation offered an example of a core fund that took 15 percent of profits in the form of carried interest, a divergence from the almost universal 20 percent industry standard in private equity.   (Reporting by Greg Roumeliotis in New York; Editing by Paritosh Bansal and John Pickering) FREE AppDownload
The job search site Indeed released a report on Tuesday with a startling finding: The US is losing $160 billion annually due to unfilled jobs. It's not that people aren't trying to find work. Rather, there aren't enough people with the right backgrounds to fill highly specialized roles, like data scientists and software engineers, that are crucial to businesses.   Indeed SVP of Marketing Paul D'Arcy says it's evidence of a split in the American economy.  "I think that increasingly in the US, there are two paralleled economies," he tells Business Insider. "There's highly skilled, increasingly specialized labor, and there's a dramatic shortage of people to fill those jobs, and then there's another population that doesn't have those skills or hasn't had the opportunity to find those skills in the workplace, and find it increasingly difficult to find good jobs in the US."  As the number of open positions grows, it's only getting worse. "It gets harder to fill those spots, there's more competition for that talent, and those positions inevitably end up staying open a lot longer," he says. That logjam is especially acute in the 16 industries featured in the below chart. IndeedThe loss of GDP per industry per year. The numbers here measure what economists call "gross value added" and are made up of two parts: the loss of wages to the individual that might have filled the job, and the loss of income a firm faces when a revenue-producing position sits unfilled. That's why fields like finance and professional services face such gigantic losses. A highly skilled finance professional not only makes a ton of money — as compensation packages at Goldman Sachs, JP Morgan, and Morgan Stanley illustrate — but they bring in loads of revenue for their firms. Those high-paying industries are able to spend the most on hiring people with in-demand skillsets like software development, data science, and other technical skills.  As a result, it gets even harder for lower-paying sectors to fill vacant jobs, since candidates get poached by higher-paying companies.  That's most evident in the least lucrative sectors: 38% of education jobs stayed open for at least three months, 39% of manufacturing jobs, and a whopping 43% in accommodation and food services.  These sectors have highly skilled roles — education increasingly relies on tech talent to manage networks or distribute massive online courses — but they simply aren't as well-paid as in other industries. "You're competing for that talent with financial firms and large companies that need those same talents but have a lot more resources to hire and pay those people," D'Arcy says. FREE AppDownload
The job search site Indeed released a report on Tuesday with a startling finding: The US is losing $160 billion annually due to unfilled jobs. It's not that people aren't trying to find work. Rather, there aren't enough people with the right backgrounds to fill highly specialized roles, like data scientists and software engineers, that are crucial to businesses.   Indeed SVP of Marketing Paul D'Arcy says it's evidence of a split in the American economy.  "I think that increasingly in the US, there are two paralleled economies," he tells Business Insider. "There's highly skilled, increasingly specialized labor, and there's a dramatic shortage of people to fill those jobs, and then there's another population that doesn't have those skills or hasn't had the opportunity to find those skills in the workplace, and find it increasingly difficult to find good jobs in the US."  As the number of open positions grows, it's only getting worse. "It gets harder to fill those spots, there's more competition for that talent, and those positions inevitably end up staying open a lot longer," he says. That logjam is especially acute in the 16 industries featured in the below chart. IndeedThe loss of GDP per industry per year. The numbers here measure what economists call "gross value added" and are made up of two parts: the loss of wages to the individual that might have filled the job, and the loss of income a firm faces when a revenue-producing position sits unfilled. That's why fields like finance and professional services face such gigantic losses. A highly skilled finance professional not only makes a ton of money — as compensation packages at Goldman Sachs, JP Morgan, and Morgan Stanley illustrate — but they bring in loads of revenue for their firms. Those high-paying industries are able to spend the most on hiring people with in-demand skillsets like software development, data science, and other technical skills.  As a result, it gets even harder for lower-paying sectors to fill vacant jobs, since candidates get poached by higher-paying companies.  That's most evident in the least lucrative sectors: 38% of education jobs stayed open for at least three months, 39% of manufacturing jobs, and a whopping 43% in accommodation and food services.  These sectors have highly skilled roles — education increasingly relies on tech talent to manage networks or distribute massive online courses — but they simply aren't as well-paid as in other industries. "You're competing for that talent with financial firms and large companies that need those same talents but have a lot more resources to hire and pay those people," D'Arcy says. FREE AppDownload
Winter is coming, but is your footwear up to snuff? You shouldn't be trudging through the impending snow with your canvas sneakers or suede footwear. In fact, suede, leather soles, and desert boots should all be in storage for the long, cold, and wet months ahead. Instead, break out the rubberized boots and Vibram outsoles. Keep reading to see the only boots heavy duty enough for the ice and snow. www.jcrew.com and viberg.comLEFT: Alden 405 Indy ($523); RIGHT: Viberg ($720). These are the boots you'll want to wear when it's iffy outside, but you still want to look nice. Modeled after work boot styles from last century, these will last you miles and miles.  What really separates these from the typical boot is that they don't have a leather sole, which you commonly see with Chelsea boots and some brogue styles. Leather soles are awful for winter because they provide zero traction and soak up water.  Instead, these boots have rubberized Danite soles and neocork rubber hybrids, which provide much more traction. On the expensive end of the spectrum, there's the Viberg's Service Boot — they have a Danite sole and a very unique, slimmer profile. A little lower than that price point are favorites like Alden's classic Indy boot with it's neocork sole and unique toe stitching. The best value (and lowest price) is Chippewa's Original Plain Toe Boots with a Vibram sole and classic work boot good looks. www.danner.com and www.redwingheritage.comLEFT: Danner Mountain Light II ($310); RIGHT: Red Wing Beckman ($340). When the weather gets a little rougher outside, you're going to need a tougher boot. Boots with lugged soles are built to keep you from slipping on the ice and snow.  They often come in work or hiking boot styles, which may not be acceptable for your work place, but are always appropriate for your commute. We recommend the Danner Mountain Light II, which has a hiking boot style, and the Red Wing Beckman, which is a revival of a classic work boot. Both have a long heritage of bulletproof quality boots behind them and are equipped with rubber lugged soles, providing optimal traction in the ice and snow.  www.llbean.com and www.sorel.comLEFT: L.L. Bean Boots ($109); RIGHT: Sorel Cheyenne Lace Up Boots ($129). For trekking in the tundra, there's no boot better suited to the task than the classic duck boot. The rubberized sole and tough, full grain leather uppers provide full protection from the wet and icy wilderness. These are the boots you need to wear when heavy snow is in the forecast. The go-to duck boot choice is the L.L. Bean Bean Boot, which invented the category way back in 1912. L.L. Bean still makes them and they're still handcrafted in the company's Maine facility. Many have attempted to copy the L.L. Bean design, and some have even comes close. The Sorel Cheyenne Lace Up Boots are a good alternative thanks to their soft inner lining (the Bean Boots don't have a lining, but they do offer a lined version $189). FREE AppDownload
Elizabeth Streb, the founder of the Streb Lab for Action Mechanics, has spent her career testing the limits of the human body through performance and choreography that combines dance, circus arts, athletics and rodeo.  In her company's production of "Ascension" nine people scale a 22-foot long ladder modeled after a New York City fire escape while it rotates at varying speeds. With grace and courage, her dancers accept the challenges she presents despite the risks to life and limb.  Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis. Additional Camera by Justin Gmoser. Follow BI Video: On YouTube  
What if you could make money sitting on a couch playing video games all day? Three men in Florida are doing just that. The gamers stream a 24-hour channel via Twitch, a live video platform that was bought by Amazon for just under $1 billion.  Produced by Alex Kuzoian. Video courtesy of Associated Press. Follow BI Video: On Facebook Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through his personal investment company Bezos Expeditions.
Thomson ReutersBank of Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda walks after meeting with Japan's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe in TokyoTOKYO (Reuters) - The Bank of Japan is expected to hold policy steady when its two-day meeting ends on Wednesday, but what it has to say about the country's slide into recession may unsettle markets already digesting the government's decision to call a snap election. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said on Tuesday he was postponing next year's sale tax hike and calling an early poll to get a fresh mandate for his reflationary economic policies that have so far struggled to show lasting results. The delay in raising the sales tax stokes worries that the BOJ's ultra-easy monetary stance is bank-rolling an alarmingly high public debt, already the highest among major economies. Having stunned markets with a surprise monetary easing on Oct. 31, the BOJ now gobbles up almost the same amount of government bonds issued each month, a move critics describe as tantamount to debt monetisation. In deploying the stimulus, BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda stayed upbeat about the economy, saying the move was aimed at pre-empting risks of a slowdown in inflation. After Monday's data showed the world's third-largest economy entered recession in the June-September quarter, BOJ board members will likely debate whether they can stick to their view that the economy "continues to recover moderately as a trend". Pessimists on the BOJ board may call for a bleaker view to be given this time. But any signs that Kuroda's conviction about the recovery is wavering could spur speculation of more easing early next year, analysts say. REUTERS/Issei KatoKuroda points to a placard showing BOJ policy decisions during a news conference at the BOJ headquarters in Tokyo October 31, 2014. "Both prices and the economy are undershooting the BOJ's forecasts. That will heighten market expectations of further easing," said Yoshiki Shinke, chief economist at Dai-ichi Life Research Institute. Shinke is among a growing number of analysts who see Japan posting negative growth in the current fiscal year ending in March 2015, and now projects a 0.8 percent contraction. The BOJ cut its growth projection by half to 0.5 percent last month. Many analysts expect a further reduction at a quarterly review in January. The postponement of the tax hike compounds problems for Kuroda, who already faces an increasingly divided board and markets that are questioning his credibility. Kuroda had said Abe should go ahead with next year's tax increase, having argued that pain from a first tax hike in April was limited.   (Editing by Simon Cameron-Moore) FREE AppDownload
Over the past two decades, Starbucks Corporation (NASDAQ: SBUX) has become almost synonymous with coffee. Today, Starbucks operates more than 20,000 stores across dozens of countries. Considering how large Starbucks has become, it might seem that the company's rapid growth can't continue much longer. However, that couldn't be further from the truth. Starbucks has plenty of opportunities to continue growing at a healthy pace for decades to come. Starbucks posted another year of double-digit revenue growth in FY14. Starbucks recently reported its financial results for the 2014 fiscal year, which ended in late September. For the full year, Starbucks added 1,599 stores to its worldwide footprint and comparable store sales rose 6%. That boosted revenue by 11% to more than $16.4 billion. Starbucks' full-year adjusted EPS grew 21% year over year to $2.66, helped by strong margin performance. The company also projected that adjusted EPS will reach $3.08-$3.13 in fiscal year 15, which translates to 16%-18% growth. One big growth initiative at Starbucks has been boosting non-coffee sales. In 2012, Starbucks purchased Bay Area bakery La Boulange in order to add more food items to its menu. The chainwide rollout of La Boulange food items has been bumpy -- some customers preferred the old Starbucks bakery selection -- but it has still been successful overall. Food sales have been growing at a faster pace than the rest of the company, driven by strong sales of breakfast sandwiches. Starbucks recently added new lunch sandwich offerings to stimulate additional growth. Starbucks is also starting to expand its Starbucks Evenings concept. Starbucks began testing the sale of wine, beer, and small-plate appetizers after 4 p.m. at a single Seattle location in 2010. The company has since expanded the pilot to several dozen locations. Starbucks plans to add hundreds of Starbucks Evenings locations in 2015. In the long run, thousands of Starbucks stores could feature the Starbucks Evenings menu, driving strong sales growth in the less busy late-afternoon and evening hours. Lastly, Starbucks has been doubling down on tea since the acquisition of Teavana in late 2012. Globally, tea is even more popular than coffee, and it represents a $90 billion market. Starbucks is adding tea bars to existing Teavana stores to boost sales of prepared beverages. It is also selling certain Teavana branded beverages in Starbucks stores. Teavana represents a big long-term growth platform for Starbucks. These investments are starting to pay off, as Starbucks saw more than 20% growth in iced tea sales over the summer. Ultimately, CEO Howard Schultz wants to make Teavana the Starbucks of tea, and sees a tremendous growth opportunity there. Starbucks revealed yet another potential game changer last month when it announced plans to roll out mobile order and pay functionality chainwide in 2015. Customers will be able to place orders in advance and pick up their orders without waiting in line. Starbucks describes it as the urban answer to the convenience of drive-through. Beginning next year, Starbucks will also use this platform to offer delivery in some top urban markets. Schultz's vision is that a customer could place a standing food or drink order and have it delivered to his or her desk every day. If this concept takes off, it will represent a huge long-term differentiator -- and growth driver -- for Starbucks. Starbucks is moving quickly in pursuit of several major growth opportunities. Investors should recognize that some of these growth initiatives are bound to be more successful than others. However, the bottom line is that Starbucks has lots of irons in the fire, and many paths to producing significant long-term growth. (In addition to the store-based initiatives mentioned here, Starbucks is rapidly growing its consumer packaged goods business.) Starbucks shares currently trade at about 25 times projected 2015 earnings. That still represents a premium to the broader market, but one that is easily justified by Starbucks' numerous growth opportunities and its leading position in digital engagement. For long-term investors, Starbucks stock could be a great bargain today. Adam Levine-Weinberg has no position in any stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool recommends Starbucks. The Motley Fool owns shares of Starbucks. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days. We Fools may not all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersUPS employee walks past a sign bearing the company's logo at a job fair in ChicagoATLANTA (Reuters) - Lower U.S. gasoline prices could boost consumer spending ahead of the holiday season, a critical period for the retail sector, a top executive at United Parcel Service Inc &lt;ups.n&gt; said on Tuesday. "The impact of low fuel prices right now is it puts more discretionary dollars in consumers’ pockets," Chief Financial Officer Kurt Kuehn told Reuters at the company's Atlanta headquarters. "We do think that it is certainly not bad timing that all of the Santa Clauses around the country will maybe have a few more dollars in discretionary spending for the holidays." Gasoline prices have recently fallen to a national average of below $3 per gallon. Kuehn said this will not affect spending on high-priced goods "but an extra $20 or $30 a month can make a difference." Any boost for retailers could be a boon for UPS and its main rival FedEx Corp &lt;fdx.n&gt; thanks to the ever-expanding Ecommerce market. Ecommerce accounts for around 45 percent of UPS' revenue and the company expects that to rise to 50 percent within five years. Kuehn said the world's largest package delivery company is "fairly bullish" on the U.S. economy, expecting annual growth of around 3 percent over the next two years, which should drive business growth and further lift consumer spending. Low gasoline prices will not deter UPS from continuing to invest in alternative fuel vehicles, Kuehn said. UPS currently has around 3,000 alternative fuel vehicles, predominantly natural gas. Kuehn said while it is more expensive to retrofit a truck to use natural gas, the lower cost of the fuel means the vehicles pay for themselves over the long term. "The economics are still pretty good even at these prices," he said. "We’re very excited still about natural gas as a very viable replacement for traditional diesel engines for fleets." UPS is gearing up for the holiday season, traditionally its busiest. The company fared poorly last year as a late major surge in Ecommerce packages overloaded its network, and extreme winter conditions hindered delivery. Kuehn said UPS has focused on its top 40 retail customers, talking to them weekly to adjust shipping forecasts and embedding staff to better understand their customers' needs. He said is optimistic this year's peak season will run smoothly. "We (UPS and major retailers) will all succeed or fail together in this effort," he said. "Our interests are absolutely aligned."   (Reporting By Nick Carey; Editing by David Gregorio) FREE AppDownload
ReutersPershing Square CEO Bill Ackman. Shares of the company, which were halted pending news, are down a bit less than 1% after resuming trade. The news came in a release Tuesday afternoon in which the company said it expected to report adjusted earnings per share of $1.61 to $1.68 in 2015, below the $1.71 that Wall Street had been looking for. The company said that in 2015, revenue was expected to come between $4.85 and $4.95 billion, just a hair below the $4.96 billion expected by Wall Street. In a statement, the company's CFO Paul Herendeen said: "Below the revenue line, we expect to generate modest improvements in gross margin in the near term before accelerating after 2017. After 2015, we expect to keep our operating expense growth in the range of the inflation rate. Considering all of these factors, we believe Zoetis is a company that can grow adjusted net income in the low, double-digits over the long term." Earlier Tuesday, the company announced a $500 million share repurchase plan. Zoetis is also holding its annual investor day, and you can read all of the company's materials here.  Zoetis is an animal health company in which activist hedge fund manager Bill Ackman recently took a 10% stake. Many see the company seen as a potential takeover target. And after the news regarding Ackman in the past day or so, it seems Zoetis got a bit jumpy about how the market would take this news, which isn't great, but isn't horrible. On Monday, Allergan — the Botox-maker that Ackman had taken a large stake in while hoping for an acquisition by the pharmaceutical company Valeant — agreed to be acquired by Actavis in a deal worth about $219 per Allergan share. That agreement put Ackman in-line to turn a profit north of $2 billion.   FREE AppDownload
College tuition prices keep getting more and more expensive. In fact, there are 50 colleges in America that now charge more than $60,000 per year. According to Bloomberg, since 1978, college tuition has increased by 1,225%. For comparison, Bloomberg points out that cost of food and shelter in the same 36-year period have only gone up 257% and 370%, respectively. The Chronicle of Higher Education released new numbers on the cost of colleges across America, and Sarah Lawrence is the most expensive, charging students $65,480, for tuition, room and board, and fees for the 2014-2015 academic year. Sarah Lawrence is a private, 4-year, liberal arts college that is located just outside of New York City in Bronxville, N.Y. Tuition alone at Sarah Lawrence is $50,780, a 4.3% increase from last year.  Here are the 10 most expensive colleges in America, according to The Chronicle Of Higher Education. All prices include tuition, room and board, and other fees. All data is from The College Board's "Annual Survey of Colleges 2014." Click here to see the rest of the rankings at the Chronicle of Higher Education &gt; FREE AppDownload
A few weeks ago we wrote about the fact that The Tie Bar had a custom van driving around Manhattan — mostly around Wall Street banks — handing out accessories like ties, pocket squares etc. And according to our friends at The Tie Bar, you guys showed up. Nice job. There's even a video that came out of it, is pretty funny. What's more important than a few laughs, though, is that learned a key lesson that week, and that is that the fashion help you so desperately need is somewhere out there.  Apparently it just needs to find you. Watch the video below:  FREE AppDownload
In the past five days, 23 powerful Brazilians have been arrested, with even more warrants still outstanding. The country's stock market has become a whipsaw, and its currency, the real, has hit a nine-year low. All of this is due to a far-reaching corruption scandal at one massive company, Petrobras. In the last month the company's stock has fallen by 35%. Petrobras is a $58.9 billion oil and gas company, of which the Brazilian government controls 54%. Five years ago, when the company was growing at a strong clip, it became almost iconic — a fixture in images of Brazil's new self. Think smiling pictures of former and well-loved President Luis Inacio Lula da Silva in a hard hat and work clothes. But in the last few years Brazil's economy has slowed, its star has diminished, and Petrobras itself is, in part, to blame. Now, amid this corruption scandal, it has become a different kind of symbol for the country, a symbol of government corruption, and whether or not the country has developed a system with the capability to clean it up. President Dilma Rousseff said that the Petrobras scandal may have the ability to "change Brazil forever." "It is a symbolic case for Brazil," she said. "It is the first time we have had a concrete investigation into corruption in Brazil, in either the public or private sectors." She would know; she's being investigated herself. There are two very serious issues with Petrobras — corruption and mismanagement. Corruption first. Authorities are calling their investigation into the company "Operation Car Wash," and it has reached the highest levels of the Brazilian government. President Rousseff's regime is accused of shaving 3% off the company's contracts in kickbacks to finance her election campaign. In October there were reports that she admitted that there was a "deviation of public money," though she later denied making those comments. In March a Petrobras former refining head, Paulo Proberto Costa, was arrested for taking $400 million from the company to make political donations. There's also an investigation into Petrobras' $1.25 billion purchase of an oil refinery in Texas in 2006. The whole thing was a disaster and led to a $500 million write down. Authorities in Brazil, the Netherlands, and the US are also looking into $100 million in alleged kickbacks Petrobras gave to SBM Offshore NV, a Dutch company that makes ships that carry oil. And of course there are the most recent arrests and warrants issued. Many are for high-level executives at construction companies that allegedly gave or took kickbacks from corrupt Petrobras officials. Authorities raided 11 major offices, according to Bloomberg. That's a lot of people to take down. Especially for a country known for letting the rich do what they want — for a country that has never sent anyone to jail for a capital markets crime in its entire history. ReutersBrazil's former president Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva (2nd L) holds the Brazilian flag with others during a demonstration supporting both the exploration of the oil in pre-salt layer on Brazil's offshore, as well as Brazil's Petrobras oil company, in Rio de Janeiro September 15, 2014. Last month in a no-media-allowed charity conference for Wall Street's most brilliant minds, The Robinhood Investor's Conference, short-seller Jim Chanos presented his short thesis for Petrobras. It tanked all of Brazil. In a post-presentation interview with Bloomberg TV he called Petrobras a "scheme, not a stock." Chanos was only talking about corruption in part. The other issue with Petrobras is with how the Brazilian government manages the company, or rather uses the company's cash to its advantage. "They [the Rousseff regime] were doing fiscal policy through the development bank and through Petrobras," economist Claudio Loser, founder of researcher Centennial Group, told Business Insider last month. "The company has been really suffering. Two years ago I would've said the company looked good." This is what it looks like now: Petrobras' debt has increased 81% to over $240 billion in the last two years. The government uses fuel controls as a kind of subsidy for the Brazilian people, and as a result there's less money for refining and the company misses production targets. You can imagine what that does to Petrobras' cash flow. ReutersBrazilian billionaire Eike Batista (L), CEO of EBX Group, greets Brazil's President Dilma Rousseff during a ceremony in celebration of the start of oil production of OGX, Batista's oil and gas company, at the Superport Industrial Complex of Acu in Sao Joao da Barra in Rio de Janeiro April 26, 2012. There are two things lurking in the background of this story. One is price and the other is man. The price, naturally, is the price of the oil that continues its slide. International prices are now getting closer to Brazil's domestic prices, but that's still not enough to make up for all of Petrobras' debt and costs. And raising oil and gas prices for the Brazilian people is an ugly option. Rousseff won the presidential election by only a hair, and protests over the summer were focused on the country's high cost of living due to inflation and corruption in the incumbent's regime. Right now, political will for difficult choices is hard to find. But the will to punish those who have historically been above Brazilian law is not. On Tuesday, one of the most closely watched trials in Brazil kicked off — the trial of former Brazilian billionaire Eike Batista. He is accused of stock manipulation and insider trading in an effort to save the massive empire of companies he built — an empire that took down Brazil's market when it crumbled. What happens to Batista may also happen to Petrobras. If either is punished, it's a sign of a new era in Brazil. If both are allowed to walk away from their corruption without a scratch, nothing will have changed. FREE AppDownload
Whether it's ketchup or ice cream or more recently batteries, Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway is a powerhouse, managing a stable of more than 80 businesses. Its stock trades at more than $210,000 per share. And if Berkshire Hathaway is legit, then Buffett — the company's charismatic leader — is the real deal in business. At age 84, the man has a net worth of $66.8 billion.  Buffett is the second wealthiest individual in the US, behind Microsoft cofounder Bill Gates ($81.5 billion) and ahead of Oracle's Larry Ellison ($47.3 billion). Buffett is as brilliant in business and investing as he is inspiring. Here are 10 of his best quotes, collected from his many letters to Berkshire shareholders and elsewhere around the web.  "I insist on a lot of time being spent, almost every day, to just sit and think. That is very uncommon in American business. I read and think. So I do more reading and thinking, and make less impulse decisions than most people in business. I do it because I like this kind of life."  "Price is what you pay. Value is what you get."  "It's far better to buy a wonderful company at a fair price than a fair company at a wonderful price." "I try to buy stock in businesses that are so wonderful that an idiot can run them. Because sooner or later, one will." "After all, you only find out who is swimming naked when the tide goes out." "You can't make a good deal with a bad person." "It takes 20 years to build a reputation and five minutes to ruin it. If you think about that, you'll do things differently." "Too often, a vast collection of possessions ends up possessing its owner. The asset I most value, aside from health, is interesting, diverse, and long-standing friends." "The most important thing to do if you find yourself in a hole is to stop digging."  "I always knew I was going to be rich. I don't think I ever doubted it for a minute. " FREE AppDownload
AmazonLather up in your favorite beer-scented soap.Let's be frank: Beer is a great gift any time of year, but during the holidays beer aficionados only have one thing on their wish lists. Whether you're shopping for a homebrewing roommate or a craft beer-loving spouse, these 15 gifts will keep all the beer connoisseurs on your holiday gift list happy.  But if you end up keeping them, we wouldn't blame you.  FREE AppDownload
Sotheby's International RealtyWho wouldn't want their bathroom to look this nice?When moving into a new place, the bathroom is likely the last room you focus on. But it's probably the most important when it comes to making a bachelor pad feel like home. To help guys out, we've rounded up 15 accessories and essentials that every gentleman should have in his bathroom. From luxe items to a few absolute necessities, this is what you'll need to take your bathroom to the next level.  FREE AppDownload
But investors are not yet biting. The stock still hasn't recovered from IBM's disappointing earnings last month. IBM missed expectations. Then CEO Ginny Rometty abandoned a years-long promise to hit $20 earnings per share in 2015, known internally as Roadmap 2015. Shares are down about 14% since the first of October. Investors are waiting to see if all of IBM's new initiatives will get the company to start growing revenues again. Folks inside Oracle are cheering about this, we understand. Oracle has become a more valuable company than Big Blue. Oracle's market cap is $182 billion. IBM's is $162 billion. Google Finance Google Finance And really, Microsoft's valuation compared to both Oracle and Big Blue is even more impressive. Google Finance Since Satya Nadella has taken over as CEO, market cap is up by almost $100 billion to almost $404 billion. That makes Microsoft more valuable than Google, with its $368 billion market cap. Unlike IBM, Microsoft's revenues continue to grow, even as Nadella overhauls the company into one that is "reinventing productivity." That said, it seems with every passing day IBM CEO Ginni Rometty gives investors reason to hope. Just Tuesday, the company lobbed out two more announcements: This follows the news last week that IBM and graphics chip maker NVIDIA won a $325 million deal to develop the world's fastest supercomputer for the U.S. government, using IBM's new Power computer chips. And that follows announcements made in the past couple of weeks including a new partnership with Twitter, a new partnership with huge Chinese internet provider Tencent, an expanded partnership with SAP, among others. But until this results in growth, competitors Oracle and Microsoft get to look at the markets and gloat. FREE AppDownload
In the past five days, 23 powerful Brazilians have been arrested, with even more warrants still outstanding. The country's stock market has become a whipsaw, and its currency, the real, has hit a nine-year low. All of this is due to a far-reaching corruption scandal at one massive company, Petrobras. In the last month the company's stock has fallen by 35%. Petrobras is a $58.9 billion oil and gas company, of which the Brazilian government controls 54%. Five years ago, when the company was growing at a strong clip, it became almost iconic — a fixture in images of Brazil's new self. Think smiling pictures of former and well-loved President Luis Inacio Lula da Silva in a hard hat and work clothes. But in the last few years Brazil's economy has slowed, its star has diminished, and Petrobras itself is, in part, to blame. Now, amid this corruption scandal, it has become a different kind of symbol for the country, a symbol of government corruption, and whether or not the country has developed a system with the capability to clean it up. President Dilma Rousseff said that the Petrobras scandal may have the ability to "change Brazil forever." "It is a symbolic case for Brazil," she said. "It is the first time we have had a concrete investigation into corruption in Brazil, in either the public or private sectors." She would know; she's being investigated herself. There are two very serious issues with Petrobras — corruption and mismanagement. Corruption first. Authorities are calling their investigation into the company "Operation Car Wash," and it has reached the highest levels of the Brazilian government. President Rousseff's regime is accused of shaving 3% off the company's contracts in kickbacks to finance her election campaign. In October there were reports that she admitted that there was a "deviation of public money," though she later denied making those comments. In March a Petrobras former refining head, Paulo Proberto Costa, was arrested for taking $400 million from the company to make political donations. There's also an investigation into Petrobras' $1.25 billion purchase of an oil refinery in Texas in 2006. The whole thing was a disaster and led to a $500 million write down. Authorities in Brazil, the Netherlands, and the US are also looking into $100 million in alleged kickbacks Petrobras gave to SBM Offshore NV, a Dutch company that makes ships that carry oil. And of course there are the most recent arrests and warrants issued. Many are for high-level executives at construction companies that allegedly gave or took kickbacks from corrupt Petrobras officials. Authorities raided 11 major offices, according to Bloomberg. That's a lot of people to take down. Especially for a country known for letting the rich do what they want — for a country that has never sent anyone to jail for a capital markets crime in its entire history. ReutersBrazil's former president Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva (2nd L) holds the Brazilian flag with others during a demonstration supporting both the exploration of the oil in pre-salt layer on Brazil's offshore, as well as Brazil's Petrobras oil company, in Rio de Janeiro September 15, 2014. Last month in a no-media-allowed charity conference for Wall Street's most brilliant minds, The Robinhood Investor's Conference, short-seller Jim Chanos presented his short thesis for Petrobras. It tanked all of Brazil. In a post-presentation interview with Bloomberg TV he called Petrobras a "scheme, not a stock." Chanos was only talking about corruption in part. The other issue with Petrobras is with how the Brazilian government manages the company, or rather uses the company's cash to its advantage. "They [the Rousseff regime] were doing fiscal policy through the development bank and through Petrobras," economist Claudio Loser, founder of researcher Centennial Group, told Business Insider last month. "The company has been really suffering. Two years ago I would've said the company looked good." This is what it looks like now: Petrobras' debt has increased 81% to over $240 billion in the last two years. The government uses fuel controls as a kind of subsidy for the Brazilian people, and as a result there's less money for refining and the company misses production targets. You can imagine what that does to Petrobras' cash flow. ReutersBrazilian billionaire Eike Batista (L), CEO of EBX Group, greets Brazil's President Dilma Rousseff during a ceremony in celebration of the start of oil production of OGX, Batista's oil and gas company, at the Superport Industrial Complex of Acu in Sao Joao da Barra in Rio de Janeiro April 26, 2012. There are two things lurking in the background of this story. One is price and the other is man. The price, naturally, is the price of the oil that continues its slide. International prices are now getting closer to Brazil's domestic prices, but that's still not enough to make up for all of Petrobras' debt and costs. And raising oil and gas prices for the Brazilian people is an ugly option. Rousseff won the presidential election by only a hair, and protests over the summer were focused on the country's high cost of living due to inflation and corruption in the incumbent's regime. Right now, political will for difficult choices is hard to find. But the will to punish those who have historically been above Brazilian law is not. On Tuesday, one of the most closely watched trials in Brazil kicked off — the trial of former Brazilian billionaire Eike Batista. He is accused of stock manipulation and insider trading in an effort to save the massive empire of companies he built — an empire that took down Brazil's market when it crumbled. What happens to Batista may also happen to Petrobras. If either is punished, it's a sign of a new era in Brazil. If both are allowed to walk away from their corruption without a scratch, nothing will have changed. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Paulo Whitaker Stocks are higher and oil is sinking near noon on Tuesday. The Dow is up 40 points, the S&amp;P 500 is up 9 points, and the Nasdaq is up 25 points. At current levels, the Dow is about 15 points away from a new all-time high, while the S&amp;P 500 is at record levels, cracking 2,050 for the first time on Tuesday. Oil, meanwhile, is sliding again, with West Texas Intermediate crude down more than 1.5% to around $74.50.  On the economic data front, we got both housing and inflation data this morning that beat expectations.  The latest homebuilder sentiment report from the National Association of Home Builders came in better than expected, at 58 up from 54 last month, and just one point below September's 59 post-recession high.  Producer prices rose 0.2% in October and 0.4% when excluding food and energy, though as Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro noted, the drop in oil prices shows up as a benefit to producers before it benefits consumers.  Meanwhile in the markets, inflation expectations have tumbled, falling back to levels seen during the market selloff in October and to levels that had some wondering if the Fed should halt the end of its QE program.  In stock news, analysts keep raising their price target on Apple, with BTIG's Walter Piecyk taking his target to $135 from $128, basing this mostly on the "selfie craze" and the improved camera functions for iPhone 6.  Home Depot reported earnings before the opening bell that beat expectations, though shares of the home improvement retailer were down about 2% in afternoon trade.  Shares of Urban Outfitters were down about 9% near noon, and as Business Insider's Ashley Lutz reports, the company's CEO identified the brand's biggest problem on its conference call last night: its stores.  And now that we are few days removed from Japan's report that it has fallen into recession, Business Insider's Mike Bird has taken a look at the "Abenomics" monetary experiment being undertaken in Japan. His conclusion? The West can only dream of this "failure." FREE AppDownload
 Here's something people associate with bigwig CEOs: golf.  But there's a problem: If your company's CEO golfs a lot, your company is probably underperforming. A paper from Lee Biggerstaff at Miami University (Ohio), David C. Cicero at the University of Alabama, and Andy Puckett at the University of Tennessee published in August (which we were first alerted to by Bloomberg's Matt Levine) looks at the relationship between CEOs who play lots of golf and the performance of those CEOs' companies. The findings are not in favor of the golfers.  The authors said they were seeking to learn how company performance related to CEOs spending time away from their companies. They settled on golf as a proxy for leisure, or a way to measure how much the CEO was "shirking" responsibilities at the company.  The authors write that they chose golf because "a plurality of CEOs list golf as their preferred outlet for leisure and because golf commands a significant time commitment." To conduct this research, the authors hand-collected (!) golfing records for 363 S&amp;P 1500 CEOs from a USGA database containing records for each round recorded in the system by golfers from 2008 to 2012.  Here are some of the highlights of the paper's findings: Among the other choice bits of info from the report is that Jimmy Cayne, the former CEO of Bear Stearns, spent 10 of 21 working days away from the office playing golf or bridge in July 2007, the same month that two Bear Stearns hedge funds collapsed. (That info is gleaned from a report in The Wall Street Journal by Kate Kelly.) As we've highlighted recently in writing about the "revolving door" issue that affects some Wall Street analysts, numerous things seem weird about Wall Street or the business world but are sort of hard to prove.  This paper takes steps toward proving something lots of people might have a hunch about. If you went up to someone on the street and asked what a CEO has to do, it doesn't seem unlikely that you'd get a response like "play golf with clients." And while on some level entertaining clients — or keeping clients happy, or making appearances on behalf of your company — is part of what comes with being a CEO, playing golf almost every other day is (probably) not in the job description.  But if you play lots of golf and then get fired as a CEO for doing so, I guess you could just go play more golf.  So, win-win? We've embedded the whole paper below. FREE AppDownload
Activist investor William Ackman is supporting the $66 billion deal in which Actavis PLC will buy Allergan Inc. and plans to withdraw from an Allergan special shareholder meeting he had planned, CNBC television reported on Tuesday. Ackman, who had been fighting alongside Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc. for control of Allergan, had called for the Allergan meeting to vote out board members and force the company to the table to consider their joint offer. The meeting is scheduled for Dec. 18, but the move means that there is no longer a need for it, CNBC said. Ackman's comments come after Actavis said on Monday it would pay $219 per share for Allergan, billions more than Valeant was willing to pay. Ackman, who owns nearly 10 percent of Allergan, had paper gains of more than $2.3 billion based on that price. CNBC reported that Ackman will meet with executives from Actavis later this week. Pershing Square did not respond to a request for comment. FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Koji SasaharaShinzo Abe's critics have their knives out on Tuesday: The Japanese prime minister has called a snap election for the country's lower house. The decision comes pretty much straight after some dreadful GDP figures for Japan. So there's been no shortage of people declaring that Abenomics has failed.  Here's why they're wrong. For one thing, people seem to forget that unemployment in Japan is only 3.6%, 0.1 percentage points from a 16-year low. That doesn't exactly scream "recession." In the UK and the US it's about 6%, and in Europe it's above 10%. On that metric, the West can only dream of the Japanese level of "failure" (more on that later). Forecasts for the Japanese economy in Q3 were absolutely awful, as the Financial Times' Ben McLannahan noted. Even the most bearish forecasters missed the drop by miles. Japan's sales tax was raised from 5% to 8% this April, something that wasn't expected to have such a debilitating effect on the economy. However, one group did get it pretty much bang on. Now-Casting, developed by Lucrezia Reichlin at the London School of Economics, called the slump. And it sees a "dramatic improvement" on the way in November and December. The effects of the tax hike won't last forever, and the Bank of Japan jump-started its already large QE program at the end of October.  It's also a big mistake to think the sales tax hike was an important part of Abe's overall plan. The tax hikes were planned under former prime minister Yoshihiko Noda and passed as a cross-party move. In Abe's first five quarters, before the tax rise came into effect, average quarterly growth was 3.26% annualized. That's strong, especially for Japan, where an aging population makes the natural rate of growth pretty slow. BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research, Cabinet Office Abe deliberated over whether to delay or scrap the increases, and ultimately it looks as if he made the wrong decision. But the plan for the second part of the hike is out of the window for at least 18 months, so long as Abe wins the election. Fudging your recovery and changing course is better than not having a plan for recovery. The most important part of Abenomics was always about raising Japanese inflation and ending the country's deflationary decades. So far, it has done pretty well. Inflation (after stripping out the tax increase) has been at or above 1% for more than a year. It has slipped a little since the summer but is still way above what Abe inherited. Japan hasn't had another period of year-long inflation over 1% in the 21st century.  Here's what inflation markets expect two and five years ahead:  Bank of Japan Why is that important? Japan's lack of any inflation has kept the economy nominally the same size or shrinking for decades. This means that economic growth and inflation combined have not been enough to raise the amount of money in the economy (in terms of yen), so public debt grows and grows relative to the size of the economy — debt was 100% of GDP in the late 1990s; it's now an eye-watering 227%. The Bank of Japan's (so far) credible promise to raise inflation to 2% and keep it there is the absolute crux of Abe's plan. Matt O'Brien offered a great explanation just before Abe's election of why Japan needed more inflation (or rather, more nominal economic growth). Another common criticism is that Japan's wage growth has been low. That's undoubtedly true, but it is rising as unemployment falls (and forces employers to hike wages in an effort to hold onto their staff). Wages are rising at the fastest pace in six years (with the first growth for small firms since the financial crisis), an effect that should be even more obvious as the temporary effects of the sales tax increase cool: Daiwa Capital Markets Europe, MIC There's one element on which the Abenomics program can be criticized: the "third arrow" of structural reforms has been slow. The government has undoubtedly made some slow achievements, but in reality, elements like raising the female participation rate will take years and decades to achieve. It's a little far-fetched to suggest that they have failed less than two years after the program began.   In short, in the only major areas on which Abenomics can be reasonably judged so far, it's doing well. Reform could be pushed through the pipeline a little quicker (though this is true just about everywhere), and Abe deserves at least a smidgen of credit for going back to Japan's electorate to scrap a stupid set of plans that he inherited. In the years to come, people may feel less sure that judging Abenomics on the back of a couple of quarters was wise.  FREE AppDownload
A lull in volatility is unlikely to last, though investors should consider becoming more constructive on U.S. small caps and continue to look to Japanese and Chinese equities for opportunities. Last week was a quiet week for stocks. As I was writing my new weekly commentary, the S&amp;P 500 rose or fell less than 0.1% for four consecutive days, the longest such stretch in 25 years. The tight trading range could be attributed to countervailing forces of good economic data — namely, strong U.S. retail sales data and a decent gross domestic product report in Europe — balanced against lingering concerns over the conflict in Russia and Ukraine. Equity market volatility has drifted back toward the low teens (around 13 on the VIX Index), but we believe this relative calm to be a temporary phenomenon. Although seasonal strength may keep volatility below normal for the remainder of the year, the situation is likely to change in 2015. A shift in U.S. monetary policy next year (i.e., Fed action to raise short-term interest rates) could lead to spikes in volatility of the type we witnessed in September and October. Against this broad backdrop, we drew a few key conclusions. A more favorable view toward U.S. small-cap stocks. After dramatically underperforming year-to-date, we are starting to see some shift in sentiment. We had been advocating an underweight to U.S. small caps all year, but would now favor a more neutral stance. Confirming our preference for equities in Japan and China. We continue to see good opportunities in these Asian markets, which have been outperforming of late. Japanese stocks surged 3% last week to a six-year high (although it surrendered most of those gains on Monday), driven by good earnings, the weakening yen and hopes that an expected tax hike will be delayed. According to local reports, Prime Minister Abe is likely to call a snap election around mid-December and postpone the sales tax increase scheduled for next October. In China, stocks continued to rally despite weaker economic growth there. The Shanghai Composite Index rose 2.8% to a three-year high after officials approved the launch of the Hong Kong-Shanghai trading link. Until now, overseas investors were largely limited to trading on the Hong Kong exchange. The new program will give overseas investors access to $2 trillion in Chinese equities, which could be supportive of stocks there. A wary outlook for gold. While volatility in stocks and bonds is down, it is picking up for commodities. Gold was hit earlier in the week by news that Chinese demand contracted for a third consecutive quarter. The metal traded to a new low for the year, temporarily dipping below $1,150 per ounce, before rebounding on Friday. But several factors are still conspiring against gold: a strong dollar, the prospect for rising real interest rates (in other words, the interest rate after inflation), and declining inflation expectations. Indeed, the University of Michigan Consumer Sentiment Survey showed U.S. inflation expectations declining from 2.8% to 2.6% last month. As such, we would continue to be cautious on gold in this environment.  Sources: Bloomberg (except as noted)  Russ Koesterich, CFA, is the Chief Investment Strategist for BlackRock and iShares Chief Global Investment Strategist. He is a regular contributor to The Blog and you can find more of his posts here. FREE AppDownload
This amazing visualization shows Transatlantic traffic over a 24-hour period taken from a day in August last year and shows 2,524 flights crossing the North Atlantic. Produced by Devan Joseph. Video courtesy of NATS. Follow BI Video: On Facebook  
Urban Outfitters shares are tanking after the company reported disappointing profits.  Sales at the namesake brand declined 7% in the third quarter, and also fell 10% last quarter.  Meanwhile, the brand's Anthropologie and Free People labels continue to thrive.  Urban Outfitters CEO Richard Hayne identified the brand's biggest problem in a recent call with analysts.  "The team did a poor job of designing the architecture of the store and creating different assortments for different types (of) stores," Hayne said. As a result, many stores were "needlessly overassorted and piecey, which made the shopping experience more difficult and less appealing," he said.  Urban Outfitters has expanded to include home, gifts, apparel, and shoes.  While sister brand Anthropologie pulls off this assortment, Urban Outfitters stores have simply become confusing. Hayne's theory that Urban Outfitters' problem lies in stores is supported by the company's strong online performance.   Online traffic and sales both grew in the third quarter.  "The most positive sign, in my opinion, is that the Urban customer is back," Hayne said. "She’s definitely online, and she’s buying, but she’s also coming back into the stores."  Business Insider/Hayley PetersonUrban's CEO believes the stores are too confusing. Hayne assured analysts that his team is putting in extra hours to fix Urban's layout and assortments.  He's also planning to ramp up customer service.  "Urban has always felt that the Urban customer wanted to sort of be left alone when they come into the store, and that may no longer be appropriate," he said.  FREE AppDownload
Europe’s olive harvest was hit hard this year by bad weather and blight, which will likely lead to consumers spending more for some olive oils, according to the Associated Press. The so-called European olive oil crisis comes at a time when Europe’s southern economies are struggling to jumpstart new growth. In Italy, where national production of olive oil is expected to drop 35 percent, the bulk price for extra virgin olive oil has already jumped more than 3 euros – from 2.7 euros to 6 euros – compared to the same time last year. "This is the worst year in memory," Pietro Sandali, head of the Italian olive growers' consortium, told the AP.  The reason for Europe’s particularly bad olive harvest was infestations of olive fly and olive moth brought on by high spring temperatures, abundant rain and a cool summer, the AP reported. Olive oil is big money for Europe’s key olive harvest countries – France, Italy, Portugal and Spain – which produce around three-quarters of the world’s olive oil. In 2013, the European Union raked in an estimated 1.8 billion euros ($2.2 billion) in revenue from olive oil exports. Spain is the largest producer of olive oil in Europe and accounts for 45 percent of total world oil production. The country cultivates more than 300 million olive trees, spanning an area of five million acres. Italy is the second largest producer at 25 percent of global totals, followed by Greece with 20 percent and California by .5 percent. Meanwhile, in Greece, drought in 2013 led to underwhelming harvests across the southern olive belt. Growers in other parts of Europe rely on Greece to make up for any deficits in the overall market, according to the Wall Street Journal. In May, the U.S. Department of Agriculture said it expected the harvest in Greece to dip by 57 percent this year, to just 155,000 tons. "When prices rise in one part of the Mediterranean, it lifts prices for us too," Johnny Frantoio, owner of a production mill in Volterra in the Tuscany region of Italy, told the Journal earlier this year. "Also, it's happening at a time when Asian demand for our products is growing." FREE AppDownload
Back in October, the big story was not just that equity markets were selling off while bonds were rallying, but that inflation expectations had completely fallen off a cliff.  And while the stock market found a bottom on October 15 and has since moved back to all-time highs, inflation expectations, after a brief bounce, are heading back towards their lows. Breakevens are indications of future inflation expectations, calculated by subtracting the yield on Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities notes from Treasury bonds of the same duration. This measure indicates what the market thinks the inflation rate will be over the next five- or ten-years, depending on the duration of the bond used.  Headlines crossing Reuters early Tuesday noted that 10-year breakevens are now at 1.86%, their lowest level since October 15.  Business Insider/Andy KierszData via Bloomberg Meanwhile 5-year breakevens, which were the breakeven measure the market more closely followed through the fall, were down to 1.53%, their lowest level since October 29.  Business Insider/Andy KierszData via Bloomberg Back in mid-October, Bank of America's Priya Misra highlighted this chart showing the decrease in inflation expectations via the decline in 5-year, 5-year forward inflation expectations. (This measure is calculated slightly differently, using futures contracts indicating the expected yield for Treasury bonds and TIPS, not the current yields, and indicates what investors think the next five years of inflation will be like starting in five years.) The chart Misra highlighted in October indicated that while the Fed was expected to end its QE program later that month, breakevens were showing the Fed was closer to more easing than turning off the spigot. On October 29, the Fed ended its QE program.  Now, US stocks have a few things going for them.  REUTERS/Toru HanaiBank of Japan Governor Haruhiko KurodaLess than two days after the Fed announced the end of its QE program, Japan unexpectedly increased its QE program.  And the market still (largely) expects that the ECB will eventually undertake a larger QE program than what it is currently executing as the eurozone's economy continues to flag.  Additionally, yesterday we highlighted an observation from strategists at Citi Research, who said that in client meetings in Asia, they found disappointment from their clients who couldn't believe they weren't more bullish on US stock. And this was in spite of a forecast that sees the S&amp;P 500 climbing to 2,200 by the end of next year, another ~10% gain.  And all of this is on a background of oil prices that have basically crashed since the summer, with both Brent and WTI crude prices falling more than 30% since June to multi-year lows. So, there's a lot going on out there, both in the US and abroad.  But don't forget about inflation.  FREE AppDownload
The Asia Maritime Transparency Initiative, partners of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, is an interactive, regularly-updated source for information, analysis, and policy exchange on maritime security issues in Asia.  Below are 18 republished maps from their report (and here is the full analysis and methodolgy). The Indo-Pacific region consists of over 20 countries. It spans from Russia in the North to Australia and New Zealand in the South, and from India in the West to Papua New Guinea in the East.  The Asia Maritime Transparency Initiative/Center for Strategic and International Studies Asia is a vibrant and dynamic region with 4.3 billion inhabitants -- 60% of the global population. China is the most populous state in the region with 1.4 billion people. India is projected to pass China’s population in about 15 years, becoming the world’s most populous nation with 1.5 billion inhabitants. The Asia Maritime Transparency Initiative/Center for Strategic and International Studies Over half of the world's commercial shipping passes through the waterways of the Indo-Pacific region. The Strait of Malacca, in particular, is one of the most important shipping lanes in the world.  The strait links the Indian and Pacific Oceans and carries approximately 25% of all traded goods. It also carries approximately 25% of all oil that travels by sea. At its narrowest point just south of Singapore, the Strait of Malacca is only 1.5 nautical miles wide, making it one of the world's most noteworthy strategic chokepoints. The Asia Maritime Transparency Initiative/Center for Strategic and International Studies One-third of the world’s liquefied natural gas passes through the Straits of Malacca and into the South China Sea, with the bulk of it originating in the Persian Gulf. LNG also flows into the region from Southeast Asia and Oceania. Much of this imported LNG is bound for Japan and South Korea. The Asia Maritime Transparency Initiative/Center for Strategic and International Studies The South China Sea contains significant proved and probable oil reserves, and countries in the region are eager to extract these.  Particularly large quantities lie in the EEZs of Vietnam, Malaysia, and the Philippines. The East China Sea is also home to a gas field, but the extent of its reserves are unknown.  The Asia Maritime Transparency Initiative/Center for Strategic and International Studies In addition to providing passage for incoming commodities, the states of Maritime Asia also have deeply interdependent trade relations among themselves.  China and ASEAN (Southeast Asia), China and Japan, and Japan and ASEAN states have robust trade relations. The China-ASEAN trade relationship is especially strong. The Asia Maritime Transparency Initiative/Center for Strategic and International Studies There are currently two free trade agreements under negotiation in East Asia. At present, Trans Pacific Partnership negotiating partners include Australia, Brunei, Canada, Chile, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand, Peru, Singapore, the United States, and Vietnam.  The Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership negotiating partners include Australia, China, India, Japan, Korea, New Zealand, and all ASEAN member states. These two agreements, and the fact that some countries (Australia, New Zealand, Brunei, Japan, Malaysia and Singapore) are party to both, illustrates the dense economic interdependence of the region. The Asia Maritime Transparency Initiative/Center for Strategic and International Studies There are numerous multilateral fora in the region, and Asian nations vary substantially in their participation in these organizations. China, Japan, South Korea, and Australia are the most participatory states in the region when it comes to multinational fora.  The Asia Maritime Transparency Initiative/Center for Strategic and International Studies Most nations in maritime Asia have signed and ratified the 1982 UN Conventional on the Law of the Sea. UNCLOS defines the rights and responsibilities of nations with respect to the world’s oceans, establishing guidelines for the use of natural resources, the environment, and for commercial affairs. UNCLOS entered into force in 1994.  The United States of America is not a signatory to the treaty, although it follows its provisions as customary international law. The Asia Maritime Transparency Initiative/Center for Strategic and International Studie Under the 1982 UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, coastal states may claim an “Exclusive Economic Zone” of up to 200 nautical miles. States have the sole rights to natural resource extraction within their own EEZs, but must also allow innocent passage through these zones according to UNCLOS. Because of their proximity, some states in maritime Asia claim EEZs that are overlapping.  The South China Sea is the site of several ongoing EEZ disputes between neighbors. Further north, Japan, China and South Korea also have EEZ boundary disputes. In areas shaded in yellow, however, states have agreed to jointly fish or develop an area despite an ongoing EEZ dispute. The Asia Maritime Transparency Initiative/Center for Strategic and International Studies The fact that a country claims a particular territory does not, however, mean that it controls it. Some countries have physical control over many of the islands that they claim, while others do not.  Five different countries control some land features in the Spratly Islands, while just one state controls the Kuril Islands, Liancourt Rocks, Senkaku Islands, and Paracel Islands. The Asia Maritime Transparency Initiative/Center for Strategic and International Studies One unique claim is China’s Nine-Dash Line, which depicts Beijing’s claims in the South China Sea. The map originally contained 11 dashes and was issued by the Nationalist Chinese government in 1947. The Communist government adopted it when it took power in 1949, and later dropped two dashes to allow China and Vietnam to settle their claims in the Gulf of Tonkin.  The Nine-Dash Line encompasses much of the South China Sea, but Beijing has not clarified whether it is making territorial claims on the land features inside this line or whether it is asserting maritime rights as well. In 2014, Beijing released a new map that featured an additional 10th dash to the east of Taiwan. Because it predates UNCLOS by several decades, the Nine-Dash Line is unrelated to an EEZ claim.  The Asia Maritime Transparency Initiative/Center for Strategic and International Studies Several states in Maritime Asia have declared Air Defense Identification Zones. This includes India, China, Japan, Russia, South Korea, North Korea, and Taiwan. An ADIZ is an identified area of airspace extending beyond a national boundary in which civilian aircraft are required to identify themselves and may be subject to interception for that country’s national security.  There are no international agreements or laws that govern the use of ADIZs: they are zones that individual countries establish for their own safety and security. The United States established the first ADIZ shortly after World War II.  Although ADIZs may generally increase transparency and reduce the risk of accidents, several countries in East Asia have overlapping ADIZs. China’s East China Sea ADIZ, declared in 2013, also includes two pieces of disputed territory. According to the Convention on International Civil Aviation, states have sovereignty over the airspace over their territory, including territorial waters. Air Defense Identification Zones do not, however, confer any sovereign rights. The Asia Maritime Transparency Initiative/Center for Strategic and International Studies In the last several decades there have been multiple interstate incidents—vehicle collisions, armed clashes, close military encounters and other standoffs—in maritime Asia. Incidents have clustered around the Spratly Islands, Paracel Islands and Scarborough Shoal in the South China Sea, the Senkaku Islands in the East China Sea, and the Northern Limit Line in the Yellow Sea.  Other hotspots include the Kuril Islands in the Northern Pacific, and the Liancourt Rocks in the Sea of Japan. This raises concern that these could be the sites of serious accidents or potential flashpoints for escalation in the future. The Asia Maritime Transparency Initiative/Center for Strategic and International Studies Asian militaries also vary significantly in terms of spending as a percentage of GDP. According to this metric, Russia and Myanmar are the biggest spenders in the region, spending between four and five percent of GDP on defense.  China, Vietnam, and South Korea are next, spending between three and four percent. Japan, the Philippines, Australia and Malaysia spend just one to two percent of GDP on their militaries, while most of South East Asia spends less than one percent. The Asia Maritime Transparency Initiative/Center for Strategic and International Studies The strength of the militaries of countries in maritime Asia varies significantly, as demonstrated by the significant disparities in their numbers of army, navy, and air force personnel.  China, India, and North Korea each field over 1 million ground troops, and Russia has nearly that number on its Eastern Front alone. China also has the highest numbers of air force and navy personnel by far.  Brunei, in contrast, boasts the lowest numbers of armed forces with fewer than 5,000 ground troops and approximately 1,000 navy and air force personnel. The Asia Maritime Transparency Initiative/Center for Strategic and International Studies The US military has long maintained a significant, standing forward presence in the Indo-Pacific and maintains ground, air, naval, and marine assets in many Asian countries. Its most significant troop presence is in South Korea and Japan. It has also recently established a rotational military presence with some Pacific partners, including the Philippines and Australia.  US assets and personnel deployed in Hawaii, Alaska, and Guam, are also devoted to the safety and security of the region. The Asia Maritime Transparency Initiative/Center for Strategic and International Studies The Indian Ocean is not the site of nearly as many territorial or maritime disputes, but it is nonetheless inseparable Pacific assets and interests. Eighty percent of Japanese and 39 percent of Chinese oil imports pass through the Indian Ocean en route from the Middle East. Chinese firms also have billions of dollars of investments in East Africa, concentrated primarily in the oil and gas, railways and roads, and other mining sectors. The Asia Maritime Transparency Initiative/Center for Strategic and International Studies
Hong Kong and Shanghai launched a trading link this week, allowing traders in each city's stock market to buy and sell shares listed on the other city's market, possibly foreshadowing a greater opening of China's capital markets. While this is a very exciting development, it's worth noting that these markets are still tiny relative to the US exchanges. The New York Stock Exchange is still by far the most important equity market in the world. With a market cap of about $21 trillion, the NYSE about three times larger than the NASDAQ, and the two US exchanges together have a larger market cap than the next ten exchanges combined. Some of the stock exchanges that fell below the top 15 are somewhat surprising. Singapore Exchange came in at 21st place, with a market cap of about $769 billion. Behind Singapore was the Moscow Exchange, coming in with $554 billion in market cap. Based on data from the World Federation of Exchanges' monthly reports*, we made this chart showing the market capitalzations of the 15 largest stock exchanges in the world as of the end of October. World Federation of Exchanges* The London Stock Exchange was not included in the World Federation of Exchanges' monthly report, but the WFE has market cap data available for London from their monthly query tool dataset. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonDo you check your phone for market updates before getting out of bed? Are you parked in front of a Bloomberg terminal before your morning coffee?  If you nodded "yes" to either of the above questions, we'd like to hear from you.  Individual Investors: Tell us more how you make your investment decisions. Are you optimistic about the markets in the coming year? Financial Advisors: What are the top challenges and risks your clients face? Are you evolving your practice to meet the needs of younger investors?  Institutional Investors: How many assets do you currently manage? What's the biggest issue in the markets right now?  Click here to take our survey. All we need is 5 minutes of your time.  Thanks in advance for your candid answers.  FREE AppDownload
Honestly, it can be pretty confusing trying to figure out which sound system you need — and where to find a good deal. So we've done the hard work for you. Here is Insider Picks' list of 14 great home sound systems. Whether you're looking for something with a bass boost function, or something that's small and portable — we have it here. Sony 700 Watt Ultimate Hi-Fi Stereo Sound System$189.95 | Amazon  Amazon Rating: 4 StarsYou can read reviews here.  Logitech Surround Sound Speakers Z506 $99.99 $69.99 | Amazon (Prime Eligible) Amazon Rating: 4 StarsYou can read reviews here.  GOgroove BassPULS Glowing Blue LED Computer Speaker Sound System$89.99 $59.99 | Amazon (Prime Eligible) Amazon Rating: 4.5 StarsYou can read reviews here. Yamaha NS-SP1800BL 5.1-Channel Home Theater Speaker System $299.95 $129.00 | Amazon (Prime Eligible) Amazon Rating: 4 StarsYou can read reviews here.  DR-S30 DURHERM 2.1 Channel Glass Surface LED Equalizer $149.95 $84.95 | Amazon (Prime Eligible) Amazon Rating: 4 StarsYou can read reviews here.  BOSS Audio ATV20 $255.00 $133.29 | Amazon (Prime Eligible) Amazon Rating: 4 StarsYou can read reviews here. Genius GX-Gaming 5.1 Surround Sound 80 Watts Gaming Speaker $149.99 $109.55 | Amazon Amazon Rating: 4 StarsYou can read reviews here. The OontZ Angle $69.99 $39.99 | Amazon Amazon Rating: 4 StarsYou can read reviews here. Roker Sound Cannon Wireless Portable Bluetooth Speaker$49.99 $19.99 | Amazon Amazon Rating: 4.5 StarsYou can read reviews here. Bose Acoustimass 6 Home Entertainment Speaker System $699.99 | Amazon Amazon Amazon Rating: 4.5 StarsYou can read reviews here. Leviton AEH50-BL$235.00 $229.00 | Amazon (Prime Eligible) Amazon Amazon Rating: 4.5 StarsYou can read reviews here. Onkyo HT-S3500 5.1 $399.00 $279.00 | Amazon Prime Amazon Amazon Rating: 4.5 StarsYou can read reviews here. Bose CineMate 15 Home Theater Speaker System$599.00 | Amazon Amazon Amazon Rating: 4.5 StarsYou can read reviews here. Sonos Play:5 Wireless Speaker  $399.00 | Amazon (Prime Eligible)  Amazon Amazon Rating: 4.5 Stars You can read reviews here. Did we miss anything? Let us know in the comments.   Disclosure: This post is brought to you by Business Insider's Insider Picks team. We aim to highlight products and services you might find interesting, and if you buy them, we may get a small share of the revenue from the sale. This is not an advertiser sponsored post and we operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback.Have something you think we should know about? Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersWomen walk past a window display of luxury goods maker Rolex in Paris' Place VendomePARIS (Reuters) - France will let shops open more often on Sundays and look to resolve disputes over firings more rapidly in a reform drive intended to lift the flagging economy, according to a draft bill seen by Reuters on Tuesday. The legislation, which includes plans to deregulate the protected legal trade, is due to be unveiled next month alongside a separate bill covering health care professionals. Responding to EU demands to cut red tape, Economy Minister Emmanuel Macron's reform will not go as far as some politicians have demanded, but it nevertheless breaks taboos and risks angering President Francois Hollande's parliamentary majority. The bill will let shops open up to 12 Sundays a year from five currently, with more flexibility in tourist areas, which have long-envied London's seven-day-a-week shopping culture. Big stores say the present rules belong to a different age and have demanded an overhaul for years, saying more trading hours will enable them to create jobs and fight competition from non-stop Internet retailers. But it's a hot-potato issue in France and one that has led to protests and trials, with unions saying it hurts workers' rights and small shop keepers worried that they will not be able to compete against the major chains. Another contentious issue is how to speed up labor courts, which sometimes take more than two years to rule on disputed firings. The draft bill suggests setting a deadline of three months, with pre-set compensation rates also a possibility. In a bid to help free-up the depressed real-estate market, the law aims to change how notaries work, shaking up a centuries-old profession that enjoys rare legal protection. Equivalent to Britain's solicitors, or U.S. notaries public, France's notaries can prevent competitors from opening offices in their neighborhoods and enjoy lucrative profit margins that are believed to be much bigger than the private sector average. The bill proposes capping their rates, except on the most expensive real estate deals, while only the Justice Ministry able to decide if new notary offices can open in any given area. Government officials hope the legislation will unleash new sources of growth, but are not putting a precise figure on its impact. Nonetheless, they hope it will convince EU partners that France is serious about overhauling its hidebound economy and persuade them to back Paris's 2015 budget, despite the fact it reneges on previous deficit-cutting commitments.  (Reporting by Emmanuel Jarry, Ingrid Melander and Jean-Baptiste Vey; Editing by Crispian Balmer) FREE AppDownload
Credit Suisse ResearchGas will barely be part of the US economy pretty soon. Already, Americans are spending a smaller percentage of their incomes on gas today than they were back in 2008, down to 3.2% from a high of over 4%. That number is expected to drop even lower. Americans are projected to spend only 2.4% of their nominal disposable income on gas in six months, according to a Credit Suisse Research report.  There are two main trends contributing to gas' demise. First, over the last few months oil prices have plummeted. Last week, WTI crude broke $75 per barrel for the first time since 2011. Dropping oil prices have primarily been attributed to supply shocks from the US shale boom. Second, driving habits have changed. Americans are increasingly driving less, and cars are becoming more fuel efficient. Due to advancements in car manufacturing, cars are now 80% more fuel efficient and 60% more powerful, even when they weigh as much as they did in the 1970s. All of these changes are effectively creating a tax cut for US consumers.  Now that they're spending less on gas, they will have "extra money" to spend on other goods.  "If the price is falling, it's a tax cut in that you don't have to pay for other things. If you are on a fixed income or a student or a lower wage worker, that's money in your pocket," said Deutsche Bank's chief US economist Joe LaVorgna. FREE AppDownload
Whether you are a seasoned investor or just beginning to see yourself as an investor, the investing jungle holds the same dangers for all of us. But most of the danger lies in the fact that what you don't know CAN hurt you. You have to know that there are a lot of people looking to take a piece of your wealth. The system is riddled with loopholes — what I would call "landmines" — that can blow up your financial future. So, to borrow a phrase from Donald Rumsfeld, here I want to reduce the number of things that you don't know you don't know by going through nine myths — you might call them lies — that have been marketed to you over the years. If you aren't aware of these — if you don't see them coming — they will systematically destroy your financial future. In the words of David Swensen, one of the most successful institutional investors of our time, to have unconventional success, you can't be guided by conventional wisdom. Let's shatter the top nine financial myths that misguide the masses and, more importantly, uncover the new rules of money; the truths that will finally set you financially free. "The goal of the nonprofessional should not be to pick winners — neither he nor his 'helpers' can do that — but should rather be to own a cross section of businesses that in aggregate are bound to do well. A low-cost S&amp;P 500 index fund will achieve this goal."  —Warren Buffett, 2013 letter to shareholders From 1984 to 1998 — a full 15 years — only eight out of 200 fund managers beat the Vanguard 500 Index. So instead of buying all the stocks individually, or trying to pick the next high-flying hotshot fund manager, you can diversify and own a piece of all 500 top stocks simply by investing in a low-cost index fund that tracks or mimics the index. One single investment buys you a piece of the strength of "American Capitalism." In a way, you are buying into the fact that over the past hundred years, the top tier companies have always shown incredible resilience. Flickr / Nathan CongletonFees aren't as insignificant as professionals would have you believe. "The mutual fund industry is now the world's largest skimming operation, a $7 trillion trough from which fund managers, brokers, and other insiders are steadily siphoning off an excessive slice of the nation's household, college and retirement savings."  —Senator Peter Fitzgerald, cosponsor of the Mutual Fund Reform Act of 2004 (which was killed by the Senate Banking Committee) In a Forbes article entitled "The Real Cost Of Owning A Mutual Fund," Ty Bernicke peels back the layers to dissect the actual cost and arrives at a heart stopping total: The average cost of owning a mutual fund is 3.17% per year! If 3.17% doesn't sound like a big number to you, think of it in light of owning the market in the alternative. You can "own" the entire market (all 500 stocks in the S&amp;P 500, for example) for less than 0.14% (or as the investment world calls it, 14 basis points). That's just 14 cents for every $100 you invest. Below is the impact of fees on fictitious ending account balance: Jason: $100,000 growing at 7% (minus 3% in annual fees) = $324,340Matthew: $100,000 growing at 7% (minus 2% in annual fees) = $432,194Taylor: $100,000 growing at 7% (minus 1% in annual fees) = $574,349 Same investment amount, same returns, and Taylor has nearly twice as much money as his friend Jason. By simply removing expensive mutual funds from your life and replacing them with low-cost index funds, you will have made a major step in recouping up to 70% of your potential future nest egg "Surprise, the returns reported by mutual funds aren't actually earned by investors."  —Jack Bogle, founder of Vanguard Average returns are like online dating profile photos. They paint a better portrait than the reality. When the mutual fund advertises a specific return, it's never the return you actually earn. Why? Because the returns you see in the brochure are known as "Time Weighted Returns." Sounds complicated, but it's really not … Time weighted returns assume that investors have ALL of their money in the fund the entire year and don't take any withdrawals.. But the reality is, we typically make contributions throughout the year (i.e. out of every paycheck into our 401(k)). And if we contribute more during times of the year when the fund is performing well (a common theme we learned, as investors chase performance) and less during times when it's not performing, we are going to have a much different return than what is advertised. Flickr / Marc BrünekeYour broker might have your best interests at heart. Then again, he might not. "It is difficult to get a man to understand something, when his salary depends on his not understanding it."  —Upton Sinclair Does the person with whom you trust to plan you and your family's future have every incentive to operate in your best interest? Most would think "yes," and most would be wrong. The truth is the financial services industry has many caring people of the highest integrity who truly want to do what's in the best interest of their clients. Unfortunately, many are operating in a "closed circuit" environment in which the tools at their disposal are "preengineered" to be in the best interests of the "house." The system is design to reward them for selling, not providing "conflict-free" advice. And the product or fund they sell you doesn't necessarily have to be the best available, or even in your best interest. By legal definition, all they have to do is provide you with a product that is "suitable." To receive "conflict-free" advice, we must align ourselves with a fiduciary. A fiduciary is a legal standard adopted by a relatively small but growing segment of independent financial professionals who have abandoned their big box firms, relinquished their broker status and made the decision to become a registered investment advisor. These professionals get paid for financial advice and, by law, must remove any potential conflicts of interest (or at a minimum disclose them) and put the client needs above their own. "Baby Boomers have been the primary mice used in the great 401(k) retirement experiment."  —Doug Warren, author of The Synergy Effect The so-called "choices" on your 401(k) plan are not the best available choices. They are the ones who pay the most to be offered up on the menu of available funds. And guess how they recoup their cost to be on the list? High fees, of course. So not only are you failing to get the best performing funds, but also you are typically paying higher fees for inferior performance. You want to make absolutely sure that your 401(k) has the lowest possible fees and low-cost index funds. David TanTarget-date funds, while convenient, aren't very lucrative. "I am increasingly nervous about target-date funds with each passing day."  —Jack Bogle, founder of investor-owned Vanguard Despite being the fastest growing segment of the mutual fund industry, target-date funds (TDFs) may completely miss the mark. So what are you really buying with a TDF? You are simply buying into a fund that handles your asset allocation for you. It's as simple as that. Instead of picking from the list of fund options, you buy one fund and — voila! — it's "all handled for you." Unfortunately, according to Marketwatch, "the most conservative target-date retirement funds — those designed to produce income — fell on average 17% in 2008 and the riskiest target date retirement funds — designed for those retiring in 2055 — fell on average a whopping 39.8%, according to a recent report from Ibbotson Associates." "I cannot imagine a personal financial situation where I'd recommend a VA [variable annuity] as a good idea."  —Actuary John Biggs, former chair of TIAA-CREF pension funds The common mantra on Wall Street is that annuities are a bad idea, unless of course you are buying one packed with mutual funds, which are the primary annuities sold in the big brokerage houses. These are called variable annuities. Most variable annuities guarantee that even if the account goes down, your beneficiaries will receive at least the total amount you originally invested. So if you put in $100,000 and the mutual funds drop in value to $20,000, your children would still get $100,000 when you die. That doesn't sound like such a bad deal until you realize that you just bought the most expensive form of life insurance available. When you buy a variable annuity, not only are you paying the incredibly expensive mutual fund fees, but you also have additional fees paid to the insurance company. There is a "mortality expense," which according to Morningstar averages 1.34% per year, as well as administrative charges that can run somewhere between 0.10% and 0.50% per year. Ouch! But are ALL annuities bad? After all, variable annuities are just one type. Many of the experts I spoke with actually like the more traditional income annuities. In fact, they were quick to point out that everyone, even the critics, have an annuity. Its called Social Security! You pay in and you get a guaranteed lifetime income stream. Many of the economists I met with are thrilled with the rising popularity of "longevity insurance" which is an annuity that requires a relatively small deposit today and will kick on later in life (say age 80), so that you don't have to worry about "living too long" and you can plan to make your money last for a set period of time. So which is it? Are annuities the best thing since sliced bread or just a deal that is good for the insurance company and brokers selling them? The answer? It really depends on the type of annuity you own and the fees the insurance company will charge you. Andreas Rentz/Getty ImagesRisky investments aren't the only ones that are worthwhile. "An investment operation is one which, upon thorough analysis, promises safety of principal and an adequate return. Operations not meeting these requirements are speculative."  —Benjamin Graham, The Intelligent Investor Whether it's the world's top hedge fund traders like Ray Dalio and Paul Tudor Jones or entrepreneurs like Salesforce founder Marc Benioff and Richard Branson of Virgin; without exception, these billionaire "insiders" look for opportunities that provide asymmetrical risk/reward. This is a fancy way of saying that the reward is drastically disproportionate to the risk. Now, you might be thinking, "Well that's great for investors who have millions or even billions just to 'throw around,' but how does that apply to me? Surely it can't be possible for normal investors to have upside without the downside — to have a protection of principal with major upside potential." Think again. The same level of financial creativity that has propelled High Frequency Trading from nonexistent into a dominant force in just ten years has touched other areas of finance as well. Following the 2008 crash, when people didn't have much of an appetite for stocks, some very innovative minds at the world's largest banks figured out a way to do the seemingly impossible … allow you and me to participate in the gains of the stock market without risking any of our principal! Before you write this notion off as crazy, I personally have an investment, issued and backed by one of the world's largest banks, that gives me 100% principal protection, and if the market goes up, I get to keep a significant chunk of the gains in the market (without dividends). But if the market collapses, I get all my money back. I don't know about you, but I am more than happy to give up a percentage of the upside in exchange for protecting myself from stomach wrenching losses on a portion of my investment portfolio. Banks aren't the only institutions that give you the ability to participate when the market goes and avoid losses when the market falls. Insurance companies do the same within annuity and certain life insurance products. My point in sharing this information is because we have come to a point in the United States where most of us feel that the only option for us to grow our wealth, involves taking huge risks. That our only available option is to "white knuckle" it through the rolling waves of the stock market. And we somehow take solace in the fact that everyone is in the same boat. Well, guess what? It's not true! Not everyone is in the same boat! Flickr / tokyoformDon't let yourself stand in the way of wealth. "Seek truth and you will find a path."  —Frank Slaughter Here's the truth — the ultimate thing that stops most of us from making significant progress in our lives is not somebody else's limitations — but rather our own limiting perceptions or beliefs. Everybody has a fear of failure at some level: at times we've all been fearful that perhaps we are not enough. Even when we know what to do, our fear can keep us from executing our plans. As a result, rather than face our natural fears, what do we do? We come up with "stories." Stories about why we're not where we want to be. Why we're not smart enough, successful enough, thin enough, rich enough, loved or loving enough. Our stories almost always relate to something outside our control, or our lack of some natural talent or ability. But talent and skill are two key elements to success attainable by anyone who is truly committed. You can develop the skill if you can get beyond the mental limits of how hard, difficult, or "impossible" it may seem to master something. It's time to no longer be one of the many, but to become one of the few. One of the few who step up, own your true capability financially, and in every area of your life. Most people start out with high aspirations but settle for a life and lifestyle far beneath their true capabilities. They let disappointments destroy them. Disappointment is inevitable when you are attempting to do anything of great scale. Instead, let your disappointments drive you to find new answers; discipline your disappointments. Learn from every failure, act on those learnings; and success becomes inevitable. Even in finance. Especially so. Tony Robbins has helped more than 50 million people from more than 100 countries transform their lives and their businesses through his books, audio programs, health products, live events, and personal coaching. His first book in over 20 years, "MONEY Master the Game: 7 Simple Steps to Financial Freedom," is out November 18th. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike BlakeHomebuilder sentiment surged in November. The latest housing market index from the National Association of Homebuilders came in at 58 in November, topping expectations. Expectations were for the index, which measures sentiment among homebuilders, to rise slightly to 55 from 54 last month.  November's reading brings the index back to within a point of its 59 hit in September, which marked a post-crisis high.  In a note to clients following the report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro cautioned that while the report looks good, this has overstated housing activity in recent years.  "The long-term relationship between NAHB headline and the official new home sales numbers points to sale of around 750,000," Shepherdson writes. "But the survey has substantially overstated sales in the past couple of years." FREE AppDownload
Elizabeth Warren is planning to oppose President Barack Obama’s nominee for Treasury Secretary for Domestic Finance, Antonio Weiss. So POLITICO’s Ben White spoke to some contacts on Wall Street about why Weiss, who runs investment banking at the Bermuda-based Lazard, is the best candidate. Here’s what they said: "Senator Warren has spent much of her career focusing on the issue of personal indebtedness and the importance of managing debt wisely. Yet when it comes to managing the largest single debt in the history of the world (as of today, the US owes bond investors $12.874 trillion), Senator Warren seems to think that experience on Wall Street isn't relevant or necessary." That’s not totally true. Warren hired ex-Wall Streeters when she spearheaded the Consumer Finance Protection Board, and she has voted for Jack Lew, Sarah Bloom Raskin, and Stanley Fischer.   But she is wary of gathering too many Wall Streeters in government, and voiced these concerns in an op-ed earlier this year. Warren says her other beef with Weiss is his relative lack of domestic finance experience. Weiss spent much of his career overseas, including eight years in Paris managing international mergers and acquisitions. And, POLITICO reported, Lazard was involved in three of the past four politically unpopular tax inversion deals. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA portrait of Bob Marley hangs next to a menu at the medical marijuana farmers market in Los AngelesSEATTLE (Reuters) - The family of Reggae icon Bob Marley and a Seattle-based private equity firm on Tuesday said they are launching the first global cannabis brand with marijuana products sold under a name long tied to a plant he lovingly called "the herb". The brand, dubbed Marley Natural, marks the first time the family's name would adorn packages of cannabis products ranging from strains similar to those Bob might have smoked in his homeland Jamaica to concentrates, oils and infused lotions sold in countries and U.S. states that have taken steps to decriminalize and legalize pot use and sales. Marley, credited with helping to spread Jamaican music to a world-wide audience with hits like "No Woman, No Cry", and "I Shot the Sheriff," died of cancer in 1981 at the age of 36. "He viewed the herb as something spiritual that could awaken our well-being, deepen our reflection, connect us to nature and liberate our creativity," Cedella Marley, Bob's daughter, said in a statement announcing the deal. The agreement came weeks after two U.S. states voted to legalize marijuana for recreational use in systems that would usher in retail shops similar to those already operating in Colorado and Washington state. AP ImagesBob MarleyThe sale of cannabis remains illegal in much of the world, but countries mainly in Europe and the Americas have decrminalized it by varying degrees. The Netherlands permits the sale of marijuana in "coffee shops", Israel and Canada and nearly half of U.S. states have allowed its medicinal use, and Uruguay has legalized its use. In the United States, marijuana remains illegal under federal law. The Justice Department and the Drug Enforcement Administration did not immediately respond to interview requests about the plans. The Marley Natural brand would likely be seen on cannabis and other products and accessories by late 2015 under the 30-year global licensing arrangement struck between the family and Seattle-based private equity firm Privateer Holdings. The brand, a wholly-owned subsidiary based in New York, would produce and sell hemp-infused topicals and accessories in countries around the world and could enter into licensing agreements governing production and packaging requirements with growers and processors that sell cannabis and cannabis-infused products in U.S. states, among other plans. Marley's family said in 2009 it would partner with Hilco Consumer Capital to license products ranging from apparel to video games.   (Editing by Ken Wills) FREE AppDownload
(Reuters) - Home Depot Inc &lt;HD.N&gt;, the world's No.1 home improvement chain, reported a better-than-expected quarterly profit as an improving job market encouraged Americans to spend more on renovations. The company reaffirmed its 2014 sales growth forecast of about 4.8 percent and profit forecast of $4.54 per share.    That includes about $34 million of net costs related to a data breach between April and September. The company said it may face other breach-related costs, including legal action, that could have a material impact on results for the fourth quarter and future periods. The retailer is facing at least 44 civil lawsuits related to the breach in the United States and Canada.   The company's shares were down 0.4 percent at $97.66 premarket. Home Depot said on Sept. 18 that hackers stole details on about 56 million payment cards in the attack.   The retailer said earlier this month that about 53 million email addresses were also stolen in the attack.   U.S. homebuilder sentiment hit new records in the August to October period as a firming job market unleashed pent-up demand, according to the National Association of Home Builders.   Home Depot's net income rose to $1.54 billion, or $1.15 per share, in the third quarter ended Nov. 2, from $1.35 billion, or 95 cents per share, a year earlier. Same-store sales rose 5.2 percent, beating the average analyst estimate of 5 percent, according to research firm Consensus Metrix. Same-store sales increased 5.8 percent in the United States, where Home Depot has more than 85 percent of its stores. "During the quarter we saw strong performance across all geographies led by growth in transactions and continued strength in the core of the store," CEO Craig Menear said. Net sales rose 5.4 percent to $20.52 billion. Analysts on an average had expected earnings of $1.13 per share on revenue of $20.47 billion, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. Up to Monday's close, the company's shares had risen 6.5 percent since it revealed the data breach.              (Reporting by Nandita Bose and Sruthi Ramakrishnan in Bangalore; Editing by Savio D'Souza) FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's Blog Russia’s non-gold international reserves have dropped from $457 billion at the start of this year to $383 during October. The ruble has plunged 30% since the start of the year. To stem the drop in reserves, Russia’s central bank on November 10 allowed the ruble to float freely in the market. I wouldn’t rule out a debt default crisis if the price of oil continues to fall. In that event, Russia might have to spend more of its reserves to stop the crisis. In other words, catastrophic outcomes are still possible for Russia. Dr. Ed's Blog  This article originally appeared at Dr. Ed's Blog.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Forced to keep discounting their prices as enrollment stagnates, U.S. universities and colleges expect their slowest growth in revenue in 10 years, the bond-rating company Moody’s reports. The squeeze could threaten further cuts in services even as tuition continues to increase. A quarter of colleges and universities are projecting declines in revenue, according to a closely watched annual Moody’s survey. Half of public and 40 percent of private institutions say they will take in only 2 percent more than the inflation rate, or worse. “Smaller entering classes in much of the country over the next few years foreshadows continued revenue pressure.” Eva Bogaty, vice president and senior analyst, Moody’s Moody’s analysts say regional public universities and small private colleges, particularly in the Northeast and Midwest where birth rates are flat and enrollment growth has stalled, are at the greatest risk. But the problems are dogging campuses everywhere. Nearly 40 percent of public and 45 percent of private institutions expect that their enrollments will decline next fall. That is “forcing already-struggling schools to offer deeper discounts to potential students,” Bogaty says. While students and their families may see tuition going up, the pressure on universities and colleges to moderate these increases and give deeper and deeper discounts means they’re still barely keeping pace with inflation, the survey shows. The proportion of their tuition private colleges and universities are giving back in the form of discounts continues to creep up, to 45 percent from 43 percent last year. The Moody’s survey also shows that private universities with the highest standings on college rankings are more likely to increase their tuition revenues than those that are lower rated.   FREE AppDownload
Melia Robinson/Business InsiderInflation showed up somewhere in October.  But the increase is due to a technicality.  Producer prices unexpectedly rose 0.2% in October, and on a "core" basis, which excludes food and energy, producer prices rose 0.4%.  Expectations were for prices to fall 0.1% month-on-month in October, while "core" PPI was expected to rise 0.1%. But there's a catch.  In a note to clients following the report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro said the price increases were boosted by a technicality in the price of gas.  "When gasoline prices fall, the input cost to gas stations drops immediately," Shepherdson notes. "But retail prices adjust less quickly, so the trade services component of final demand PPI — which measures wholesale and retail margins — records a temporary increase." Tuesday's PPI report showed that on a month-on-month basis, crude oil prices fell 9.8% in October. And as Shepherdson noted, the trade services component of PPI in October rose 1.5%, which accounts for 23% of the "core" reading, and "explains all the overshoot compared to consensus." On a year-over-year basis, PPI rose 1.5%, topping expectations for a 1.3% rise, and rose 1.8% on a "core" basis which beat expectations for a 1.5% increase. The producer price index measures the change in prices received for domestically produced goods, services, and construction, measuring price change from the perspective of the seller, rather than CPI, which measures prices from the purchaser's perspective. Via Pantheon, here's the chart showing the relationship between gas prices and trade services moving together, but in opposite directions. Pantheon Macroeconomics FREE AppDownload
This week, President Barack Obama made his clearest remarks yet on his stance toward Syrian dictator Bashar al-Assad. Liz Sly of the Washington Post tweeted the exchange: Obama has long been loathe to enter "somebody else's civil war," a stance that fueled to the fragmentation and radicalization of a armed Syrian opposition that at one time included thousands of Syrian military defectors.  Meanwhile, Assad facilitated the rise of ISIS (also known as ISIL, Islamic State, and Daesh) in an attempt to ensure his own survival. Former Syrian diplomat Bassam Barabandi, who spent several decades in the Syrian Foreign Ministry, detailed how Assad and "his Iranian backers seek to frame this conflict as a regional sectarian issue, with a classical choice between military powers and Sunni extremists." ISIS eventually pulled Obama into bombing parts of Syria, but US-led warplanes have so far avoided and even "de-conflicted" with Assad's troops. More than 200,000 have been killed during the Syria civil war, which began with nonviolent protests in March 2011 that were met with bullets and tanks. In August of 2013, the regime crossed Obama's "red line" when sarin gas attacks in the suburbs of the capital killed an estimated 1,400 people in four hours. Assad's government has also tortured and raped tens of thousands of people, as detailed by photographs smuggled out of the country by a former police photographer. The ambassador-at-large in the State Department's office of global criminal justice subsequently said that not since Hitler's Germany has there been a regime so eager to document its own atrocities.  Here's a look at the military situation in the country: @ArabthomnessYellow: Kurds; Red: Regime; Green: Mainstream rebels; Black: ISIS FREE AppDownload
Getty Images/Andrew BurtonGood morning! We hope you are enjoying the winter-like conditions across much of the US on this Tuesday morning. Via Dave Lutz at JonesTrading, here's a quick guide to what traders are talking about this morning.  Good Morning! US Futures are starting mixed, as the Russell jumps 30bp, while S&amp;P and NDX are flat. Overseas markets are enjoying tailwinds, with Abe calling snap election and delaying the tax hike (well expected), and dovish hopes continuing from ECB on the back of Draghi comments. Germany’s ZEW bounced back sharply helping DAX jump 1.2% in average volume as Materials, Industrials and Banks perform well in Europe. Over in Asia, Russia’s MICEX continues to climb as Oil stabilizes, while the Nikkei surges 2% on hopes of additional stimulus measures from the new Abe government. The HK link remains a "Sell the News" in light volume, with China off 70bp as China new home prices fell in virtually every city surveyed. The Sensex finally took a breather from it’s recent run, while Staples and Tech helped propel the KOSPI up 1% as Samsung jumped post-analyst day. Emerging Asia is had a strong overnight, with Malaysia and Thailand rallying behind Indonesia’s much anticipated subsidized fuel price hike overnight — while Aussie lost small, weighed down by the Miners. The US 10YY is flat this AM, with most of the Sovereign attention on PIIGS spreads post-Draghi’s speech yesterday. BoE Gov. Mark Carney flagged up "huge disinflationary forces," a remark which was taken as a strong hint that record-low U.K. interest rates aren’t going up anytime soon — The DXY is retreating into the Fed’s minutes tomorrow — giving commodities a nice tailwind this AM. The Standout winner is Gold - climbing 1.2% to the highest in two weeks (speculation the ECB may purchase assets including bullion to counter low inflation / SNB Vote / Crowded Short). Growth commodities remain under pressure, with Copper off 1% and WTI giving up pre-market gains (was up 1%) into Oil Inventories and Expiry. Scheduled Catalysts today include Total Net TIC Flows At 9, NAHB Housing Market Index and Quarterly Retail E-Commerce Sales at 10 — Fed's Kocherlakota Speaks on Monetary Policy at 1:30, and After the close we get API inventories for Crude. The Spot VIX contract expires today, and at some point we may have the US Senate voting on Keystone tonight. Some trades I’m watching today – ITB (Builders) held key support again yesterday ($25), but HD is under pressure early on #s ahead of NAHB data / Watch the Gold Miners – someone has been rolling from GDX/GDXJ into the levered NUGT, which has surged 25% the last 2 sessions / With the Russell Outperforming, I’m watching to see if today is a "Good Harbor" day, as they are currently UW Smallcaps / With Oil breaking down into Expiry, imagine more headwinds for HYG as the HY Energy Credits continue to be sold / Keystone headlines may impact TRP, ENB, SU, IMO, CVE, CNQ, CNRL and refiners – but a Obama Veto looms large / Watch the levered Gun&amp;Ammo plays (RGR, SWHC, ATK, DKS, CAB, TASR) with Ferguson headlines heating up into the Jury decision.   FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock ExchangeNEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stock index futures were little changed on Tuesday following a record close on the S&amp;P 500 and ahead of producer inflation data. * Shares in Europe advanced, boosted by German analyst and investor sentiment, which rose in November for the first time in almost a year, raising hopes of an improvement in Europe's biggest economy. * More support for equities came as Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe called for parliament to be dissolved on Friday, seen potentially bringing more measures to stimulate growth after the Japanese economy unexpectedly slipped into recession. * A drop in producer prices in September led investors to bet the Federal Reserve would delay hiking interest rates until late 2015 at the earliest to keep support for the economy in place. October's reading is expected at 8:30 a.m. EST (1330 GMT). * Shares of Home Depot  fell 1.1 percent premarket after the world's No.1 home improvement chain reported a better-than-expected quarterly profit as an improving job market encouraged Americans to spend more on renovations. * CytRx Corp  shares fell 10.5 percent premarket after the drugmaker said the U.S. Food and Drug Administration placed a partial hold on clinical trials of its experimental cancer drug after a patient died. Futures snapshot at 7:18 a.m. EST (1218 GMT): * S&amp;P 500 e-minis  were down 0.75 points, or 0.04 percent, with 101,419 contracts changing hands. * Nasdaq 100 e-minis  were down 1.75 points, or 0.04 percent, in volume of 17,084 contracts. * Dow e-minis  were up 2 points, or 0.01 percent, with 20,150 contracts changing hands.    (Reporting by Rodrigo Campos) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Thomas PeterJapan's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe delivers a speech during a ceremony marking the 50th anniversary of the founding of the Komeito Party in Tokyo November 17, 2014. Good morning! Here are the major stories you need to hear about before US markets open. Japan Delays Tax Hike And Calls For A Snap Election. "Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has told reporters he will delay Japan's scheduled consumption tax hike and dissolve the Lower House on Friday for a snap election," NHK World reports. "This comes in the wake of data that shows GDP has contracted 2 quarters in a row." From Bloomberg: "He’ll probably pick Dec. 14 for the election, according to people with knowledge of the ruling party’s strategy" Japan Surges. The Nikkei index jumped 2.2% in the wake of the news. The yen fell to as low as 117.05 per dollar. World Markets Rally. In Europe, Britain's FTSE 100 is up 0.4%, France's CAC 40 is up 0.7%, and Germany's DAX is up 1.2%. US futures are flat. US Inflation Data Is Coming. The producer price index report gets released at 8:30 a.m. ET. Economists estimate PPI fell 0.1% in October, but climbed 0.1% excluding food and energy. On a year-over-year basis, prices are forecast to climb 1.2% and 1.5%, respectively. The US Senate Is Heading For A Vote On The Keystone Pipeline. "Backers of the Keystone XL oil pipeline hope a vote in the U.S. Senate late on Tuesday will send a bill to the desk of President Barack Obama," Reuters' Timothy Gardner and Richard Cowan report "Backers of the bill in the 100-seat Senate need 60 votes to prevent a filibuster by opponents. A companion bill easily passed the House of Representatives on Friday." Chinese House Prices Dropped For A Second Month. Chinese property prices dropped by the steepest amount in October since the current data series began three years ago, the FT reports. UK Inflation Tick Up. Prices climbed by 1.3% in October, which was right in line with expectations, but up from 1.2% in September. The core figure, which strips out the most volatile prices, like food and tobacco, came in slightly higher at 1.5%. German Investor Confidence Booms. Germany's ZEW index, which measures investor sentiment, jumped to 11.5 in November from -3.6 in October. This was much stronger than the 0.5 level expected by economists. European Carmakers Had The Best October For Five Years. Sales are up 6.5% on the same month last year in Europe, despite poor economic performance generally, according to the FT.  Traders Aren't Using The Hong Kong-Shanghai Stocks Link Much. Investors largely turned away from the link-up between the Hong Kong and Shanghai stock exchanges on Tuesday, a day after it launched to much fanfare and ambitions for billions of dollars in daily cross-border transactions. FREE AppDownload
There are some really unfortunate physical and mental risks associated with partial or total sleep deprivation. The video is based on a smart science piece from Lauren Friedman. Produced by Matthew Stuart Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Screen shot/US Marshals ServiceThe U.S. Department of Justice has begun an auction of 50,000 bitcoins seized from Ross Ulbricht, the man accused of operating the Silk Road drug marketplace online. The auction will run for two weeks. The total value of the bitcoins (BTC) is about $19.2 million, according to Coindesk’s average market prices on Monday evening. The auction’s winner will be revealed on Dec. 5, the U.S. Marshals Service said. This is the second auction of bitcoins seized from Ulbricht, also allegedly known as “Dread Pirate Roberts.” Ulbricht is being tried for crimes as the kingpin of a secret “dark web” site often used to peddle drugs. The website consisted of roughly 70 percent of the Silk Road’s listings, along with weapons and a number of other things. Venture capitalist Tim Draper won an auction in July for 30,000 BTC. Since July, when bitcoin prices dropped to $584 from $647, the price has fallen further to $384 as of Monday evening. The bitcoins will be sold off during 20 smaller auctions, and those wishing to participate must first register with the Marshals Service and submit initial deposits of no less than $100,000. In the market for some cryptocurrency? To submit a bid, you must first register with the U.S. Marshals Service (USMS). It requires: You must deliver the Required Registration Items by email to USMSBitcoins@usdoj.gov. If the USMS determines that you are an eligible bidder, you will receive communication of that fact from the USMS and will be provided with additional information regarding how to place your bid by 5:00pm EST on Tuesday, December 2, 2014.  If the USMS determines that you are not an eligible bidder, you will receive communication of that fact from the USMS, the deposit funds will be returned, and you will not be eligible to participate in the online auction.  The deposit of the winning bidder will be retained by USMS and credited towards the purchase price. Bitcoins are on a rocky path to becoming regulated in a number of states, including New York. Proponents of the peer-to-peer payment system say that it becomes a better currency as investors get “bored” with bitcoin. This article originally appeared at International Business Times.  Copyright 2014. Follow International Business Times on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
One of the most amusing phrases on Wall Street is "smart money." This phrase is used to describe the handful of professional investors whose abilities and foresight are thought to be so acute that they spot the big moneymaking opportunities before the average Joe Pro. The smartest of the "smart money" is thought to be hedge funds. A look at recent performance suggests that hedge funds are indeed extremely smart money, though not in the way that most people think. As the chart below shows, on average, hedge funds are no smarter about picking stocks or other investments than anyone else. In fact, they're decidedly, startlingly worse. The blue line in the chart below is the relative performance of the average hedge fund since 2010. The purple line is the relative performance of the S&amp;P 500. The chart is from Ben Inker of GMO: GMO But hedge funds are absolutely brilliant moneymaking opportunities for those who run and work for them. The fees on a well-run S&amp;P 500 index fund are about 20 basis points a year. That means that, every year, for every $1 billion a fund has under management, the fund manager makes $2 million. The annual fees on a dime-a-dozen hedge fund, meanwhile, are "2 and 20" — 2% of assets and 20% of any gains, regardless of whether the gains are the result of the fund manager's activities or simply a rising market. That means that, for every $1 billion under management, the hedge fund rakes in $20 million per year. And if the market should rise, say, 20% in a year, the fund will collect another $40 million. Put differently, in a year in which the market goes up 20%, the manager of a $1 billion S&amp;P 500 index fund will make $2 million. The manager of a hedge fund that performs in line with the market, meanwhile (which most haven't in recent years), will make $60 million. Smart money, indeed! FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersVarious denominations of U.S. currency are seenWASHINGTON (Reuters) - Seven of the 30 largest U.S. corporations paid more money to their chief executive officers last year than they paid in U.S. federal income taxes, according to a study released on Tuesday that was disputed by at least one of the companies. Amid talk in Washington about corporate tax reform, the study said the seven companies, which in 2013 reported more than $74 billion in combined U.S. pre-tax profits, came out ahead on their taxes, gaining $1.9 billion more than they owed. At the same time, the CEOs at each of the seven companies last year was paid an average of $17.3 million, said the study, compiled by two Washington think tanks. The seven companies cited were Boeing Co &lt;ba.n&gt;, Ford Motor Co &lt;f.n&gt;, Chevron Corp &lt;cvx.n&gt;, Citigroup Inc &lt;c.n&gt;, Verizon Communications Inc &lt;vz.n&gt;, JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co &lt;jpm.n&gt; and General Motors Co &lt;gm.n&gt;. The Institute for Policy Studies and the Center for Effective Government, the study's co-authors, said its findings reflected "deep flaws in our corporate tax system." In reply, Verizon said it paid $422 million in income taxes in 2013. "We do not provide a breakdown between federal vs. state in that total; however, I am confirming for you that the federal portion of that number is well more than Verizon's CEO's compensation," a spokesman said in an email. Boeing said its 2013 global tax bill was $1.6 billion, though all but $5 million was deferred due to development and production investments. A spokesman said current tax expense and cash taxes were likely to rise as 787 jet deliveries ramp up. Like the other companies, Citigroup said it abides by all tax laws. "In 2013, Citi paid more than $3 billion in payroll taxes and more than $95 million in use tax, personal property and real property taxes in the U.S.,” a spokesman said. Both automakers Ford and General Motors said their current U.S. tax bills are reduced by tax loss carry forwards stemming from severe losses suffered a few years ago. Energy group Chevron said its 2013 current U.S. federal income tax expense of $15 million "was much lower than normal" due to several factors. Echoing other companies, Chevron stressed it pays taxes worldwide. JPMorgan Chase declined to comment. Neil Hall/Reuters (Additional reporting by David Henry and Alwyn Scott in New York, Marina Lopes in Washington, Ben Klayman in Detroit, and Ernest Scheyder in Williston, N.D.; Editing by Cynthia Osterman) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersMercedes-Benz's new Sport Utility Coupe concept car G-Code is seen at its unveiling event during the opening ceremony of Daimler AG's Mercedes-Benz R&D centre in BeijingGUANGZHOU China (Reuters) - Daimler AG will give its new luxury baby, the Mercedes-Maybach limousine, a glitzy world debut at this week's Guangzhou autoshow, even as analysts warn the end is nigh for China's 10-year high-end car sales boom. The scale of the world's biggest auto market means the German firm and peers like Jaguar Land Rover simply can't ignore it. Instead, to cut costs and cushion potential discounts as luxury demand cools, they're starting or expanding production in China. Responding quickly to changing consumer preferences since President Xi Jinping's anti-extravagance campaign began two years ago is key for luxury automakers. IHS Automotive expects premium car sales growth will slow to 5 percent by 2018 from an average annual growth rate of 30 percent over the past decade. "We want to go for a sustainable growth, growth with quality. It's not just a volume game," Ralf Speth, CEO of Jaguar Land Rover said last month in the eastern city of Changshu, where the British firm opened its first overseas plant. Localizing operations in China could help luxury operators target fast responses to changing market trends. It could also help them avoid heavy import duties and price their cars more competitively. Interest among foreign firms in selling upscale cars in China show no sign of abating even as economic growth slows to the weakest pace since first-quarter 2009. Last month, Ford Motor Co &lt;f.n&gt; launched its premium Lincoln brand in the country, while Volkswagen &lt;vowg_p.de&gt; plans to introduce luxury cars in China next year. But the market for ultra-luxury cars, defined by consultancy as those selling for more than 2 million yuan ($326,632) apiece, has dropped sharply. A.T. Kearney expects it will barely grow over the next five years. Meanwhile, sales of less expensive premium brands such as Land Rover and Germany's BMW &lt;bmwg.de&gt; have also shown signs of softening. "The economy is bad," said Robin Lu, founder of a 12-year-old consultancy in Shanghai, who has postponed his plan to replace his nine-year-old Chevy this year with a BMW. "I used to have dozens of clients, but now, many of them, especially those in the manufacturing and luxury sector, have left." Some auto dealers say customers are looking for lower showroom prices as the economy cools. "Some people who could afford premium cars, and have plans to buy them, have now changed to 'wait and see' with cash in hand," said one senior manager of a large Hong Kong-listed dealer group, speaking on condition of anonymity. While luxury brands like General Motors' &lt;gm.n&gt; Cadillac and Nissan Motor's &lt;7201.T&gt; Infiniti join the rush to localize production, another strategy is to sell smaller, or entry-premium cars. A.T. Kearney's Shanghai-based principal Andreas Graef said that downsizing trend is spreading to the ultra-luxury segment. "You have small Rolls-Royce, smaller Bentleys," said Graef. "You probably will very soon have a smaller Maserati." (Additional reporting by Norihiko Shirouzu in BEIJING; Editing by Emily Kaiser and Kenneth Maxwell) FREE AppDownload
Credit Suisse, Thomson Reuters Datastream, Business Insider The chart above, from Credit Suisse's global outlook for 2015, perfectly explains why so many investors are looking more favourably at European stocks.  Europe's corporate earnings are near a 10-year low, while US earnings are smashing through new records. European stocks may present a good opportunity because they have neared the bottom — there's nowhere to go but up if the economy improves, even slightly. Credit Suisse explains in their own words:  If global growth improves, the economies with the largest output gaps – such as the euro zone – may see risky asset prices bounce sharply from depressed levels. The huge gap between corporate earnings in the US and Europe hints at massive room for improvement. The massive room for improvement is clear in the bank's base case for returns. Credit Suisse is expecting a 14% return from Eurostoxx 50 equities in 2015, with a massive potential upside. In the best-case scenario, they think returns could hit 25%. In comparison, their base case for S&amp;P 500 stocks is an 8% return, with a 10% return as the best-case scenario.  There is a clear downside: the worst-case scenario for Europe is much worse than for the US. But the European Central Bank is still stimulating the economy through quantitative easing (QE), which should be broadly good for stocks. There's a huge potential for expansion if it goes for a full QE programme, which would involve buying government bonds, in turn, giving investors even more money to put into stocks.  Credit Suisse is not alone. JP Morgan last night swapped US stocks from overweight to underweight (suggesting they deserve a smaller place in an investor's portfolio) and raised European stocks to overweight. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Fabrizio BenschGermany's ZEW index, which measures investor sentiment, just smashed out of negative territory.  Analysts had expected the "economic sentiment" part of the index to rise just out of negative territory for November, to 0.5, from -3.6 in October. In reality, it hit 11.5. Last month was the first in negative territory for nearly two years, but this month's figure has soared well away from zero. The part of the index that measures the current situation was lower, at 3.6. But analysts had expected it to reach only 1.7.  The figures come after Germany's Q3 GDP growth was confirmed at a dismal 0.1%, barely avoiding a technical recession. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/China Daily UK inflation ticked up to 1.3% in October, according to figures just released by the Office for National Statistics.  Analysts had expected inflation to come in at 1.3%, up from September's 1.2% reading.  The core figure, which strips out the most volatile prices, like food and tobacco, came in slightly higher at 1.5%. Despite the slight increase, with oil prices dropping, inflation will probably remain below the Bank of England's 2% target in the coming months.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersDavid Crane, president/CEO of NRG Energy, smiles during the grand opening of the Ivanpah Solar Electric Generating System in the Mojave Desert near the California-Nevada border(Reuters) - U.S. power company NRG Energy Inc aims to grab a bigger piece of the residential solar industry by expanding its business in California, the nation's biggest solar market, and offering a new financing option to its customers. NRG Home Solar on Tuesday will announce two new offices and plans to add 100 employees in the Golden State. The company is already a top competitor on the East Coast but has lagged rivals such as SolarCity Corp and Vivint Solar Inc in California. That is about to change, according to Kelcy Pegler, president of NRG Home Solar. "We are in this residential solar space to win, and this is evidence of our commitment to become a big player in the state of California," Pegler said in an interview. NRG has quietly made inroads into the residential solar market over the last several years. But the company is making a major push this year after buying installer Roof Diagnostics Solar and online solar sales company Pure Energies. Pegler came to NRG from Roof Diagnostics. NRG Energy owns power plants throughout the United States, and its rooftop solar foray is tiny in comparison to its primary power generation business. But NRG Chief Executive David Crane has put a large emphasis on renewable energy and distributed generation such as rooftop solar. Earlier this month, Crane told analysts that NRG will have 10,000 home solar installations at the end of this year, and between 35,000 and 40,000 by the end of 2015. As of the second quarter, NRG Home Solar had 2.4 percent of the U.S. installation market, behind rivals SolarCity, Vivint and Sungevity, according to solar market research firm GTM Research. "The company has set its sights pretty high, so I'd expect to see this share grow pretty rapidly," GTM analyst Shayle Kann said of NRG. NRG Home Solar's new offices will be located in Merced and San Diego, adding to offices in Emeryville and San Francisco. The company has 1,000 employees and will be adding 100 more. NRG will also begin offering a loan to customers who want to own their systems but cannot afford the $20,000 to $30,000 upfront cost. The company would not disclose details of loan. Solar leases, which allow homeowners to pay a monthly fee for their panels while another company owns them, have underpinned the growth of the U.S. solar market in recent years. But loans have become increasingly popular because they allow homeowners to take advantage of generous federal tax credits for solar systems. SolarCity launched its first loan option earlier this year, a product it expects will make up half its residential business by the end of next year. NRG's Pegler said he expects leases and power purchase agreements, another no-money-down option, to be the most popular options for customers over the next two years. (Reporting By Nichola Groom; Editing by Ken Wills) FREE AppDownload
