Thomson ReutersA T-Mobile store sign is seen in Broomfield, ColoradoWASHINGTON (Reuters) - T-Mobile US Inc  on Monday posted lower-than-expected quarterly earnings, as the company faced stiff competition from its rivals. T-Mobile reported a third-quarter loss of 12 cents per share, up from a loss of 5 cents per share a year earlier. Revenue rose 10 percent to $7.35 billion.  (Reporting by Marina Lopes; Editing by Lisa Shumaker) FREE AppDownload
Investors should consider multinational companies that are exposed to the booming middle class in emerging markets. US Trust's Joseph Quinlan wrote in a note to clients that it is "time to buy" into global brands that reach these markets. He called this new middle class "Transformers" because they are an active part of huge changes in various industries around the world. "What their parents and grandparents considered luxuries—flushing toilets, electricity, telephones, cars, computers—the Transformers consider staples or basic necessities," Quinlan wrote. He explained why they are an attractive market: "This cohort craves global brands, loves to travel, cares about the environment and is into body health—beauty and healthcare matter to these people. As this new global consuming class adopts and acquires Western lifestyles—or moves from the village to the city, works in air-conditioned offices, drives to work, and consumes more protein—there will be greater demand and higher prices for energy, water, agricultural goods and related items. There will also be more demand for material goods—high-end material goods, in particular. So while global luxury sales have slowed over the past year in many emerging markets, the long-term outlook remains promising." Quinlan said these companies, mainly from the US, Europe, and Japan, will benefit from the rapidly expanding middle class.  Here's a chart that forecasts the explosion of the middle class in emerging markets, to at least 4 billion people by 2025. Bank of America Private Wealth Management FREE AppDownload
TOKYO (Reuters) - Asian shares wobbled in early trade on Tuesday, with investors cautious ahead of the U.S. Federal Reserve's two-day meeting and as oil prices extended declines. The Fed is expected to announce the completion of its quantitative easing program after a two-day meeting starting later in the session and will likely reinforce its stated willingness to wait a long while before hiking interest rates after a volatile month in financial markets. "With the end of the asset purchase program a foregone conclusion, speculation is once again mounting about the movement of interest rates," said Evan Lucas, market strategist at IG. Data on Monday showed U.S. services sector activity slowed in October to a six-month low, while manufacturing output in Texas decreased, providing more evidence that the Fed has reason to wait before raising U.S. interest rates. MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan &lt;.MIAPJ0000PUS&gt; inched down about 0.1 percent in early trade, after a lackluster session on Wall Street. Japan's Nikkei stock average &lt;.N225&gt; edged down about 0.2 percent, despite upbeat economic data released before the market open. Japanese retail sales in September rose 2.3 percent from a year earlier, government data showed, suggesting consumer spending is gradually picking up. The U.S. dollar edged higher after slipping overnight on expectations of more dovish comments from the Fed. The dollar crawled about 0.1 percent higher to 107.87 yen, but remained below Monday's nearly three-week high of 108.38. It was steady on the day against the euro at $1.2701. The single currency was underpinned by a report released over the weekend that showed that Europe's bank stress tests beat market expectations, with only one in five of the region's top lenders failing at the end of last year, and many have since repaired their finances. But Germany's closely watched Ifo report of business sentiment on Monday showed the index hit its lowest level in almost two years in October, indicating that Europe's largest economy faces challenges. U.S. crude for December was down about 0.4 percent at $80.65 per barrel after dropping as low as $79.44 on Monday, its lowest level since June 2012, after Goldman Sachs cut its price forecasts. Concerns about weak global demand and booming supply continued to loom over the market. Spot gold was steady at $1,225.34 an ounce.   (Editing by Jacqueline Wong) FREE AppDownload
The consequences of the coming bull market in the US dollar, which I’ve been predicting for a number of years, go far beyond suppression of commodity prices (which in general is a good thing for consumers – but could at some point threaten the US shale-oil boom). The all-too-predictable effects of a rising dollar on emerging markets that have been propped up by hot inflows and the dollar carry trade will spread far beyond the emerging markets themselves. This is another key aspect of the not-so-coincidental consequences that we will be exploring in our series on what I feel is a sea change in the global economic environment. I’ve been wrapped up constantly in conferences and symposia the last four days and knew I would want to concentrate on the people and topics I would be exposed to, so I asked my able associate Worth Wray to write this week’s letter on a topic he is very passionate about: the potential train wreck in emerging markets. I’ll have a few comments at the end, but let’s jump right into Worth’s essay. A Scary Story for Emerging Markets By Worth Wray “The experience of the [1990s] attests that international investors have considerable resources at their command in the search for high returns. While they are willing to commit capital to any national market in large volume, they are also capable of withdrawing that capital quickly.” – Carmen &amp; Vincent Reinhart “Capital flows can turn on a dime, and when they do, they can bring the entire financial infrastructure [of a recipient country] crashing down.” – Barry Eichengreen “The spreading financial crisis and devaluation in July 1997 confirmed that even economies with high rates of growth and consistent and open economic policies could be jolted by the sudden withdrawal of foreign investment. Capital inflows could … be too much of a good thing.” – Miles Kahler In the autumn of 2009, Kyle Bass told me a scary story that I did not understand until the first “taper tantrum” in May 2013. He said that – in additon to a likely string of sovereign defaults in Europe and an outright currency collapse in Japan – the global debt drama would end with an epic US dollar rally, a dramatic reversal in capital flows, and an absolute bloodbath for emerging markets. Extending that outlook, my friends Mark Hart and Raoul Pal warned that China – seen then by many as the world’s rising power and the most resilient economy in the wake of the global crisis – would face an outright economic collapse, an epic currency crisis, or both. All that seemed almost counterintuitive five years ago when the United States appeared to be the biggest basket case among the major economies and emerging markets seemed far more resilient than their “submerging” advanced-economy peers. But Kyle Bass, Mark Hart, and Raoul Pal are not your typical “macro tourists” who pile into common-knowledge trades and react with the herd. They are exceptionally talented macroeconomic thinkers with an eye for developing trends and the second- and third-order consequences of major policy shifts. On top of their wildly successful bets against the US subprime debacle and the European sovereign debt crisis, it’s now clear that they saw an even bigger macro trend that the whole world (and most of the macro community) missed until very recently: policy divergence. Their shared macro vision looks not only likely, not only probable, but IMMINENT today as the widening gap in economic activity among the United States, Europe, and Japan is beginning to force a dangerous divergence in monetary policy. In a CNBC interview earlier this week from his Barefoot Economic Summit (“Fed Tapers to Zero Next Week”), Kyle Bass explained that this divergence is set to accelerate in the next couple of weeks, as the Fed will likely taper its QE3 purchases to zero. Two days later, Kyle notes, the odds are high that the Bank of Japan will make a Halloween Day announcement that it is expanding its own asset purchases. Such moves only increase the pressure on Mario Draghi and the ECB to pursue “overt QE” of their own. Such a tectonic shift, if it continues, is capable of fueling a 1990s-style US dollar rally with very scary results for emerging markets and dangerous implications for our highly levered, highly integrated global financial system. As Raoul Pal points out in his latest issue of The Global Macro Investor, “The [US] dollar has now broken out of the massive inverse head-and-shoulders low created over the last ten years, and is about to test the trendline of the world’s biggest wedge pattern.” One “Flight to Safety” Away from an Earth-Shaking Rally?(US Dollar Index, 1967 – 2014) For readers who are unfamiliar with techical analysis, breaking out from a wedge pattern often signals a complete reversal in the trend encompassed within the wedge. As you can see in the chart above, the US Dollar Index has been stuck in a falling wedge pattern for nearly 30 years, with all of its fluctuations contained between a sharply falling upward resistance line and a much flatter lower resistance line. Any break-out beyond the upward resistance shown above is an incredibly bullish sign for the US dollar and an incredibly bearish sign for carry trades around the world that have been funded in US dollars. It’s a clear sign that we may be on the verge of the next wave of the global financial crisis, where financial repression finally backfires and forces all the QE-induced easy money sloshing around the world to come rushing back into safe havens. Let me explain… The EM Borrowing Bonanza As John Mauldin described in his recent letter “Sea Change,” the state of the global economy has radically evolved in the wake of the Great Recession. Against the backdrop of extremely accommodative central bank policy in the United States, the United Kingdom, and Japan and the ECB’s “whatever it takes” commitment to keep short-term interest rates low across the Eurozone, global debt-to-GDP has continued its upward explosion in the years since 2008… even as slowing growth and persistent disinflation (both logical side-effects of rising debt) detract from the ability of major economies to service those debts in the future. Global Debt-to-GDP Is Exploding Once Again(% of global GDP, excluding financials)*Data based on OECD, IMF, and national accounts data. Source: Buttiglione, Lane, Reichlin, &amp; Reinhart. “Deleveraging, What Deleveraging?” 16th Geneva Report on the Global Economy, September 29, 2014. As John Mauldin and Jonathan Tepper explained in their last book, Code Red, monetary policies have fueled overinvestment and capital misallocation in developed-world financial assets… Developed World Financial Assets Still Growing(Composition of financial assets, developed markets, US$ billion) Data from the McKinsey Global Institute Source: Buttiglione, Lane, Reichlin, &amp; Reinhart. “Deleveraging, What Deleveraging?” 16th Geneva Report on the Global Economy, September 29, 2014. … but the real explosion in debt and financial assets has played out across the emerging markets, where the unwarranted flow of easy money has fueled a borrowing bonanza on top of a massive USD-funded carry trade. Emerging-Market Financial Assets Have Nearly DOUBLED Since 2008(Composition of financial assets, emerging markets, US$ billion)Data from the McKinsey Global Institute Source: Buttiglione, Lane, Reichlin, &amp; Reinhart. “Deleveraging, What Deleveraging?” 16th Geneva Report on the Global Economy, September 29, 2014. These QE-induced capital flows have kept EM sovereign borrowing costs low…  … and enabled years of elevated emerging-market sovereign debt issuance…  … even as many those markets displayed profound signs of structural weakness. Raghuram Rajan at the Bank of India explains that this emerging-market borrowing binge is a logical consequence of “Code Red” monetary policies like ZIRP, QE, and aggressive forward guidance in the United States and other developed markets: When monetary policy in large countries is extremely and unconventionally accommodative, capital flows into recipient countries tend to increase local leverage; this is not just due to the direct effect of cross-border banking flows but also the indirect effect, as the appreciating exchange rate and rising asset prices, especially of real estate, make it seem that borrowers have more equity than they really have. But the problem goes beyond a logical response to easy money. With growth in global trade demand running well below the pre-2008 average, emerging markets face a dangerous dilemma: slow down along with their developed-world customers (which brings on the nasty prospect of social unrest and political regime change) or lever up in an attempt to make the tricky transition to domestically led growth (which may allow incumbent governments to stay in power).  Trouble is, as we are seeing in China today, it is exceptionally difficult, if not impossible, in the current weak trade/volatile capital flows environment, to smoothly transition from an export-led growth model to a domestic consumption-driven growth model without a major slowdown along the way. And attempting to make the transition via debt-fueled, state-directed, investment-led growth is likely to result in massive debt bubbles, unmanageable piles of nonperforming loans, and the prospect of a very hard economic landing. Brevan Howard’s Luigi Buttiglione, along with co-authors Philip Lane, Lucrezia Reichlin, and Vincent Reinhart, explained this dynamic in the latest Geneva Report on the World Economy: Some nations that avoided the direct effects of the financial meltdown have recently built up excesses that raise the odds of a home-grown crisis…. A number of emerging economies reacted to the global crisis and the consequent slowdown in exports by switching from export-led growth to domestically led growth, engineered by a strong expansion in domestic credit…. The result was the strong increase in the ratio of total debt (ex financials) to GDP for emerging economies, by a staggering 36% since 2008. Higher leverage, although helping to shield these economies from the chilling wind blowing from advanced economies, is an increasing concern in terms of the future risk profile given the ongoing steep slowdown of nominal growth, which reduces the “debt capacity” of emerging economies exactly when they would need to expand it. [emphasis mine] John and I have written about this topic several times in the last year (“Central Banker Throwdown” and “Every Central Bank for Itself”), and I believe that understanding the massive flows of capital from developed to emerging markets and the potentially disastrous dynamics behind an abrupt reversal in the emerging-market bubble boom may be the key to comprehending how the final act of the global debt drama will play out. Carry Trade Junkies After years of enjoying relatively easy capital inflows and high levels of debt growth against a backdrop of deteriorating fundamentals, the “Fragile Eight” (Argentina, Brazil, Chile, India, Indonesia, Russia, South Africa, and Turkey) find themselves in the “addicted to capital” phase of the balance of payments cycle (outlined in the chart on the next page from Bridgewater Associates), with high vulnerability to a reversal in flows. According to the latest Geneva report, these economies (shown as EM1 in the graph below) have fallen into dangerous current account deficits compared to less fragile emerging markets (EM2)…  Source: Buttiglione, Lane, Reichlin, &amp; Reinhart. “Deleveraging, What Deleveraging?” 16th Geneva Report on the Global Economy, September 29, 2014. … and continue to exhibit a dangerous net-negative international investment position, making the Fragile Eight serious candidates for capital flight.  Source: Buttiglione, Lane, Reichlin, &amp; Reinhart. “Deleveraging, What Deleveraging?” 16th Geneva Report on the Global Economy, September 29, 2014. Broad-based, debt-fueled overinvestment may appear to kick economic growth into overdrive for a while; but eventually, disappointing returns and consequent selling lead to investment losses, defaults, and banking panics. And in cases where foreign capital seeking strong growth in already highly valued assets drives the investment boom, the miracle often ends with capital flight and currency collapse. Economists call that dynamic – an inflow-induced boom followed by an outflow-induced currency crisis – a “balance of payments cycle,” and it tends to occur in three distinct phases. Bridgewater Associates, January 2014 In the first phase an economic boom attracts foreign capital, which generally flows toward productive uses and reaps attractive returns from an appreciating currency and rising asset prices. In turn, those profits fuel a self-reinforcing cycle of foreign capital inflows, rising asset prices, and a strengthening currency. In the second phase, the allure of continuing high returns morphs into a growth story and attracts ever-stronger capital inflows – even as the boom begins to fade and the strong currency starts to drag on competitiveness. Capital piles into unproductive uses and fuels overinvestment, overconsumption, or both, so that ever more inefficient economic growth depends increasingly on foreign capital inflows. Eventually, the system becomes so unstable that anything from signs of weak earnings growth to an unanticipated rate hike somewhere else in the world can trigger a shift in sentiment and precipitate capital flight. In the third and final phase, capital flight drives a self-reinforcing cycle of falling asset prices, deteriorating fundamentals, and currency depreciation… which in turn invites more even more capital flight. If this stage of the balance of payments cycle is allowed to play out naturally, the currency can fall well below the level required for the economy to regain competitiveness, sparking runaway inflation and wrecking the economy as asset prices crash. In order to avoid that worst-case scenario, central bankers often choose to spend their FX reserves or to substantially raise domestic interest rates to defend their currency. Although it comes at great cost to domestic growth, this kind of intervention often helps to stem the outflows… but it cannot correct the core imbalances. The same destructive cycle of capital flight, falling asset prices, falling growth, and currency depreciation can restart without warning and trigger – even years after a close call – an outright currency collapse if the central bank runs out of policy tools. John and I believe that this worst case is the looming risk for many emerging markets today, particularly in the externally leveraged “Fragile Eight” (Argentina, Brazil, Chile, India, Indonesia, Russia, South Africa, and Turkey) and, in the event of a forceful unwind in the USD carry trade, maybe even China. Not only have those countries amassed a disproportionate share of total inflows to emerging markets, but each also has its own insidious combination of structural and political obstacles to long-term growth. Each of these countries is not without options, but the longer they delay in being proactive, the greater the risk. The question for 2014 is, what happens when the tide of easy dollars reverses and reveals a more challenging funding environment? With John’s blessing, I hope to profile each of the fragile emerging markets individually in the coming months and in our upcoming book (working title: Sea Change); but for now I have to limit our discussion to a couple of charts from a recent letter titled “Carry Trade Junkies,” by my good friend Josh Ayers at Paradarch Advisors, along with a few specific observations on three of the most fragile economies. According to official data reported by the Bank for International Settlements and the IMF, Turkey, South Africa, and Chile look like obvious candidates for capital flight and are three of the leading currency-crisis candidates. Not only do these economies rank among the most externally leveraged in the world… External Debt to FX Reserves Sources: Paradarch Advisors, BIS, IMF … but their banking systems also rank among the most externally leveraged. External Bank Debt to FX Reserves Sources: Paradarch Advisors, BIS, IMF In addition to enduring high levels of leverage that remain uncovered by FX reserves, Turkey, South Africa, and Chile are also liable to serious USD shock risk, based on their economic fundamentals (unlike Poland and Hungary, which are less likely candidates for immediate currency collapse given their very low levels of domestic inflation). The lesson here is clear. The catalysts are already in position to spark an initial flight to safety if the USD moves just modestly higher. Some economies (like Turkey, South Africa, and Chile) are more fragile than others (like Russia, Brazil, and India); but an initial wave of crises can push the USD higher and easily lead to larger accidents. The experience of the 1990s shows how, against the backdrop of a relatively strong US economy and policy divergence between major central banks, extreme stress in the emerging markets can lead to elevated US dollar strength, which in turn can trigger additional crises and push the world’s reserve currency to even greater heights. For example, the Mexican “Tequila Crisis” of 1994 played a role in pushing the USD higher and, along with Bank of Japan easing, helped trigger the Asian Financial Crisis in 1997. The Asian crisis, in turn, set off a sharp jump in USD strength and an equally sharp fall in oil demand, which, along with an oversupply of oil, contributed to a crash in oil prices in 1998 and threw Russia into crisis. As the example of Russia shows – and the inverse relationship between the US dollar and oil prices highlights – this is not just a matter of capital inflows turning into outflows, but rather inflows giving way to outflows while the value of commodity exports falls simultaneously. So, this dynamic gets more and more dangerous for increasingly fragile economies as the dollar reaches new heights and commodity markets are stressed. US Dollar Index vs. WTI Crude Oil Turkey, South Africa, and Chile may be the likely “first wave,” which policymakers around the world may see as inconsequential… but it’s easy to see how that first wave could grow into a tsunami. Financial Repression Backfires When asked about the concept of financial repression (a technical term for policies that are intended to fuel a domestic wealth effect and force savers to take on more and more risk over time to maintain a manageable level of income), former Treasury Secretary (and recent Fed Chairman runner-up) Larry Summers recently commented, “I think the instinct to financial repression is there. But it strikes me that the world is pretty global and there are a lot of places to put money, and even if one wanted to financially repress, I don’t think that [in] most of the industrialized world is going to be that easy on a large scale.” (Click here &amp; fast-forward to the 1:03:48 point to see his comments.) It never made the nightly news, the front page of the New York Times, or even the news page on Bloomberg, but Summers’ comment is a tremendous revelation from the man who almost succeeded Ben Bernanke as Fed Chairman earlier this year. By trying to shore up their rich-world economies with unconventional policies like ultra-low nominal interest rates; outright balance-sheet expansion; and aggressive, open-ended forward guidance, major central banks have dramatically widened international real interest-rate differentials and forced savers to seek out higher (and far riskier) returns for more than five years running. But that money did not just move further out on the risk spectrum from low-yielding cash equivalents to higher-yielding assets like US stocks, high-yield bonds, and MLPs. In the process of fighting naturally deflationary impulses and forcing investors to take more risk, the Federal Reserve has also forced an enormous amount of money to move out of the United States and into the emerging world. The risks have been clear to policymakers all along, but emerging markets are well outside of the Fed’s mandate. They are collateral damage, so to speak. In his latest issue of Global Macro Investor, Raoul Pal estimates that the resulting carry trade has grown to roughly $3 trillion into major emerging economies (excluding China) and nearly $2 trillion into China alone. My friend Mark Hart comes up with similar numbers for “unexplained inflows” by backing the sum of foreign direct investment and trade out from the total growth in FX reserves, and he discusses the situation at length in a recent “Master Class” interview with Raoul Pal on Real Vision TV. These are staggering numbers, even compared to the massive Japanese yen carry trade that had grown to roughly $1 trillion by 2007; and they add up, quite simply, to the Mother of All Carry Trades… which can unwind VERY QUICKLY in the event of a major US dollar rally. Shades of 2008. That’s the flip side to years of low rates, QE, and aggressive forward guidance. The Fed buys time for the US economy to find its footing at the expense of rampant misallocation across the rest of the world. Major developed economies can adjust their policies to offset the effects, but the emerging markets find themselves in a far more vulnerable position as easy money masks the urgent need for reforms. And once the Fed reverses its policy to reflect relative strength in the US economy, it’s a bloodbath for economies that cannot adjust easily, which in turn pushes the US dollar even higher and starts to take a serious toll on real economies… like China’s, where state-sanctioned data dramatically understates the extent of the world’s most dangerous debt bubble. In the days leading up to All Hallows Eve, the prospect for a US dollar rally should inspire more fear than any campfire ghost story or voodoo curse. This is a realistic and increasingly probable outcome; and the last time the world saw a series of emerging-market crises (first in Mexico in 1994 and then in Southeast Asia in 1997) against the backdrop of a weak Japanese economy and a relatively stronger US economy, it pushed the US dollar to such heights that it triggered a 50% collapse in oil prices, pushed Russia’s economy over the edge in 1998, and blew a hole in the side of a highly levered hedge fund, Long Term Capital Management, that nearly brought down the global financial system. The next round of policy divergence could be far more destructive than that, because this time the global financial system is far more levered; instability is far more widespread; and the amount of money required to backstop an accident will be greater than the Fed’s entire bloated balance sheet. These are the logical consequences of post-2008 financial repression, and they’re the reason why emerging-market central bankers like Raghuram Rajan are calling loudly for better coordination of global monetary policy. It is indeed every central bank and country for itself, and that is a recipe for volatility and financial losses. If you think this story has a happy ending, you are not paying attention to history. Geneva, Atlanta, and New York I write this at the end of a very packed four days of constant mental stimulation. The Barefoot Summit at Kyle Bass’s ranch in East Texas was up to its usual high standards. And due to the rain we have had all summer, East Texas is about as pretty as I have ever seen it. And the weather was perfect. It was a great setting in which to sit and talk all things macro. Sen. Tom Coburn was in attendance (along with a few other political types), and I find him to be a thoroughly delightful and thoughtful man. I am sad to see his wisdom leave the Senate but understand the personal reasons. We need more men like him in government. And while the weather in Boston was not initially welcoming, it has turned absolutely beautiful today. Niall Ferguson and his team at Greenmantle have put together a most thought-provoking conference. The gathering was held under strict Chatham House rules, so while I can share my thoughts about it, I can’t describe the actual conversations or the people involved without their permission. As you might expect of a man with Niall’s resources and connections, he was able to pull together fascinating panels and presentations of the highest quality. We were treated to in-depth analysis of almost every region of the world as well as to presentations of new ideas and technologies; and the forum was small enough to allow for very active debate. Tomorrow I fly to Washington DC and then on to Geneva for a few days of meetings and some time to gather my thoughts before returning to Atlanta for a day before I finally head back to Dallas in time for Halloween. I’m going to go ahead and hit the send button without my usual final comments, as I want to get to the gym and there is a full evening planned for tonight. You have a great week. You’re more convinced about a dollar bull market than ever analyst, John Mauldinsubscribers@mauldineconomics.com This article originally appeared at Thoughts From The Frontline.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersShoppers walk past advertisement posters outside a clothing store at a shopping district in TokyoTOKYO (Reuters) - Japanese retail sales rose 2.3 percent in September from a year earlier, government data showed on Tuesday, suggesting consumer spending is gradually picking up. The rise was more than a 0.6 percent increase expected by economists in a Reuters poll and was the fastest increase since March. It followed a 1.2 percent annual rise in August, the data released by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry showed. The government raised the national sales tax to 8 percent from 5 percent on April 1 to help pay for healthcare and welfare spending, but consumer spending has been lacklustre since the tax increase. Another sales tax hike to 10 percent is scheduled for next year, but some politicians want this plan to be delayed.   (Reporting by Stanley White; Editing by Chris Gallagher) FREE AppDownload
The Australian economy is struggling to make the transition from the mining boom in a reasonable time frame, with only house prices and housing construction really showing any signs of life. Large swathes of the rest of the economy from retail to manufacturing to consumer sentiment are still struggling and in need of a rate cut. But the RBA is unable to deliver a rate cut let alone change to an “easing bias” because of the boom in Australian house prices according to Goldman Sachs head of economics Tim Toohey via the SMH. Like the Reserve Bank, Toohey believes that the Aussie dollar needs to be lower but he highlighted that it’s not just the lower level of the Aussie but that the fall itself needs to be “lower relative to where commodity prices actually are going”. But he added that it will be some time before the Aussie falls sustainably. “It’s going to feel like a very, very long time, I think, before that shift in Fed policy can actually give you a breakage in the currency without potentially additional policy easing on the local front.” Which means that the economy is going to look quite a bit weaker in 2015, making the current concerns over housing less important in restraining the RBA, according to Toohey. It’s going to come down to the unemployment rate, inflation and, as I say, house prices are more of a second-order concern. Into that March, April period next year, that’s when it’s going to get interesting. In the end, Toohey reluctantly took out his call for a rate cut recently but he says it was a reluctant move on the back of house prices. Clearly, though, he’s not far away from calling for a rate cut once more. You can read more here This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
It turns out that houses in blue cities are more expensive than houses in red cities. Trulia chief economist Jed Kolko compared vote margins from the 2012 presidential election to Trulia's estimates of the median asking price per square foot in each of the hundred largest US metropolitan areas. The following chart plots this comparison, with red dots indicating metro areas where Mitt Romney won, light blue dots indicating areas where Barack Obama won by fewer than 20 percentage points, and dark blue dots showing areas where Obama won by more than 20 points: Jed Kolko/Trulia While each of the three groups include cities on the lower end of the house price spectrum, nearly all of the Romney-voting metro areas had median prices lower than $200/square foot, while some of the most Democratic-leaning areas were far more expensive. Looking at these three groups in aggregate, the median asking price among the heavily Obama-favoring metro areas was nearly twice as high as in the Republican metros: Jed Kolko/Trulia In the Trulia blog post on this analysis, Kolko warns against mistaking correlation for causation: For further details, and a full list of the nation's metro areas, check out the Trulia post here. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/HardmanFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisers.  Falling Oil Prices Are Hurting High-Yield Bonds (Charles Schwab) Falling oil prices are having negative effects in other markets. Specifically, it has fueled the recent high-yield bond market sell-off. "Despite the recent drop in high-yield bond prices — and accompanying higher yields — we're still cautious on high-yield bonds. We believe any further declines in oil prices could continue to put pressure on the high-yield market," writes Collin Martin. Instead, Charles Schwab analysts recommend that investors who are reaching for yield should switch up to investment-grade corporate bonds. Investors  Should Stay Away From Financial Advisors Under The Suitability Standard (Washington Post) There are two standards that govern financial advisors: suitability and fiduciary. Fiduciaries have a stricter duty, and legal obligations, and as a result advisers who operate under this standard must act in the interest of the client at all time. On the other hand, the suitability standard provides way less protection to investors, especially because compensation is commission-based. Under this standard, "investors rarely come out on top," argues Barry Ritholtz. "So the ordinary individual investor has three problems with the suitability standard: 1. It favors the brokerage firm and its employees over the investor. 2. It costs much more than services provided under other standards. 3. And it creates an inherent conflict of interest between the adviser and the investors," argues Ritholtz. Policy-Driven Reform Could Liberalize Nigeria's Economy (AllianceBernstein) For some reason, Nigeria seems to be off of everyone's radar. However, it's one of the biggest economies in Africa and is also one of the world's largest oil and gas producers — so it deserves a second glance. Electrical power outages are the biggest hurdles that are holding Nigeria back from huge economic growth. But "resolving its electricity-generation gaps could significantly boost the country's economic growth — and provide opportunities for equity investors," argues Henry S. D'Auria. Investors can capitalize on this potential policy-driven reform because many industries will grow at incredible rates. Manufacturing capacity and efficiently will improve, and there will be greater employment and economic stability. Even Though It's Scary, Investors Need To Rebalance Portfolios (Vanguard) Many investors are afraid to rebalance their portfolios. They're worried that they will rebalance too early and thus forego potential gains — especially when they have a handful of well-performing assets in their portfolios. But investors should remember that rebalancing "is a discipline designed to manage risk rather than maximize return," argues Colleen Jaconetti. The future is uncertain, and as a result even the assets that have been performing recently may suddenly drop tomorrow. Advisors Must Be Prepared In Case Their Elderly Clients Suffer From Memory Loss Or Dementia (Financial Planning) "Losing capacity for financial decisions is something advisors need to be ready for, as it is likely to affect a huge part of our population," writes Carolyn Rosenblatt. By 2030, there will be 72.1 million people aged 25 and over in the US, and an estimated 7.7 million of them will have Alzheimer's Disease.  There are two things that advisors should do. First, they need to "explicitly" plan for the possibility that clients will have "diminished financial capacity," writes Rosenblatt. And second, advisors should communicate with the client and find out if family members can act as proxies in the future. FREE AppDownload
America's big companies have managed to generate healthy profit growth despite weak revenue growth. They've been pulling this off by improving operational efficiencies, which often means laying off workers and getting more out of the workers who stick around. This story has been captured neatly by widening profit margins. According to data from FactSet, Q3 earnings per share grew at a 5.6% rate while revenue climbed by just 3.7%. It's the same old story. Margins are already near record highs. But analysts expect they'll actually go higher from here. Here's more from FactSet: ...For Q4 2014, Q1 2015, and Q2 2015, analysts are predicting earnings growth rates of 6.0%, 7.8%, and 9.0%, respectively. For all of 2014, the projected earnings growth rate is 6.1%. For all of 2015, the projected earnings growth rate is 10.5%. ...For Q4 2014, Q1 2015, and Q2 2015, analysts are predicting revenue growth rates of 2.8%, 3.5%, and 2.9%. For all of 2014, the projected revenue growth rate is 3.7%. For all of 2015, the projected revenue growth rate is 3.7%. Given this divergence in expected earnings and revenue growth over the next few quarters, analysts are expecting profit margins to continue to expand into 2015. Using the bottom-up sales-per-share (SPS) and earnings-per-share (EPS) estimates for the S&amp;P 500 as proxies for expected sales and earnings for the index over the next few quarters, profit margin estimates can be calculated by dividing the expected EPS by the expected SPS for each quarter. Using this methodology, the estimated net profit margins for Q4 2014, Q1 2015, and Q2 2015 are 10.3%, 10.4%, and 10.7%. These numbers are above the blended net profit margin for Q3 2014 (9.9%), and are also well above the average net profit margin of 9.3% recorded over the past four years. Corporations can't keep squeezing incremental amounts of production from their assets into perpetuity. At some point, something's gotta give. FactSet FREE AppDownload
Dennis Gartman has a new forecast for oil: a lot lower. In an appearance on CNBC's Fast Money on Monday, Gartman, publisher of the Gartman Newsletter, said that crude oil prices will fall demonstrably from current levels. Earlier on Monday, it had been reported that Gartman saw crude oil going to $10 a barrel, but he backed a bit off that claim in his appearance on Monday, saying that maybe next time he ought to be a bit more circumspect when he talks to CNBC's producers.  But the central spirit of Gartman's not quite $10 call was still intact, with Gartman saying simply that the era of oil is over. At one point, Gartman went so far as to compare crude oil to whale oil, which became obsolete following the advent of crude in the early 20th century.   In discussing the "end of oil," Gartman referenced news from Lockheed Martin earlier this month that the aerospace giant has made a technological breakthrough in developing a power source based on nuclear fusion. And while Business Insider's Jessica Orwig reported that some in the scientific community are skeptical of this breakthrough, Gartman sees the potential in this breakthrough as being something of a death knell for oil.  Gartman also referenced other factors weighing on oil prices, namely a supply glut and a market that is contango. A market is said to be in contango when the futures contract for a commodity is more than what the expected price will be in the future.  So basically, if I pay $80 for a futures contract for a barrel of oil I want to get next year, but if expectations are that the spot price of a barrel of oil will be $60 in a year, the futures contract — again, assuming the spot price doesn't move — will have to fall. This is all a bit oversimplified.  But Gartman's central point is that things look absolutely terrible for crude oil, and while Gartman was reticent to commit to his $10 a barrel call, he added that "it doesn't really matter" where oil prices go exactly, except that they are definitely going lower.  Gartman's comments come after what was an ugly morning for oil, which fell below $80 a barrel for the first time since June 2012.  The tumble in oil came after analysts at Goldman Sachs cut their price target on WTI crude oil to $70 by the second quarter of next year.  In his note, Goldman Sachs analyst Jeff Currie wrote: "We are lowering our oil price forecast to reflect the required slowdown in US production growth: our WTI crude oil forecast is $75/bbl for 1Q15 and 2H15 (from $90/bbl previously). Given our unchanged WTI-Brent spread forecast of $10/bbl, our Brent forecast is now $85/bbl ($100/bbl previously)... Our 2016 and long-term forecasts are now $80/bbl WTI, $90/bbl Brent. Uncertainty around the required price to slow down US shale production growth is a key risk to our price forecast."  After Monday's early sell off, oil futures were trading just below $81 a barrel near 5:30 p.m. ET.  FREE AppDownload
JCPenney's business, which has been increasingly stable since Ron Johnson left the helm in 2013, could be headed for a crash.  The department store is increasingly phasing out brand names for private labels, a move that could "lead to market share losses similar to what was experienced in 2011," according to a recent report by Deutsche Bank. While department stores like Macy's and Nordstrom have worked to showcase name brands, JCPenney has focused more on offering private-label merchandise at a discount.  JCPenney opened a design studio in New York's Soho last year to revitalize brands like Worthington and St. John's Bay.  Making clothing in-house cuts out the middle man and allows JCPenney to make a bigger profit. The retailer can also afford to mark down private-label merchandise, theoretically attracting more customers.  But Deutsche Bank analysts expressed doubt over whether the private-label brands are trendy enough to attract consumers who would rather wear brand names. The bank maintains its "hold" rating on the stock. JCPenney hired former Apple retail chief Ron Johnson to run the business in 2011. Johnson's strategy of abolishing sales and promotions drove away customers, leading sales to tumble 32%.  He was fired after 16 months on the job.  ReutersJCPenney's sales fell 32% under Ron Johnson.Despite interim CEO Mike Ullman's attempts to bring back customers with sales, the brand has been hurt by declining mall traffic and poor consumer perception.  JCPenney's new CEO, former Home Depot executive Marvin Ellison, will join the company in November.  finance.yahoo.comJCPenney's shares have struggled to recover since Ron Johnson's disastrous tenure. FREE AppDownload
Don't know what you're going to be for Halloween yet? That can wait. What's really clutch is where you're going to party. Business Insider caught up with Jonathan Schwartz of NYC's Strategic Group to get the word on what he'll be doing. Since Strategic handles all the goings-on at Marquee and PH-D at the Dream Downtown, this is key information. Marquee will have six different DJs on deck with Burning Man style art cars and dancers wearing insane costumes designed by Carmela Lane. "The biggest difference between this year and last year," said Schwartz, "is that this will be more music driven, last year was more celebrity driven. Sorry if you missed Heidi Klum last year. However, this year you may find yourself upstairs in The Green Room — some addition VIP space being created specifically for this party. "At Marquee you're going to find a lot of nightlife staples... a really good crowd that likes to go late," said Schwartz. General admission will cost you $125. Table packages go from $3500 to $25,000. The party at the Dream Downtown will have two parts. There's the "The Animal Party" in The Gallery — where Strategic is bringing in 30 palm trees and Swedish producer Marcus Schossow to take care of the music. Costumes will have a black swan and yellow theme, and yes they will be nuts. Upstairs on the roof the party will be friends and family based. You'll still have DJ Theory on deck at PH-D, and Carmela Lane's insane costumes, "but it's not going to be somewhere where you're too overwhelmed," said Schwartz. Think more of an up-scale, Soho House vibe. Tickets to the PHD party will cost you $90 for general admission, $135 for an open bar from 9-12 pm. Tables start at $3,000 and go to $30,000. Check out fliers for all the action at The Dream Downtown below: Strategic Group FREE AppDownload
Business InsiderHere they are: the most important charts in the world. A lot has changed since the last time we published this collection back in July. The economic situation in Europe has deteriorated, the unemployment rate in the US has fallen below 6%, and the Fed looks poised to conclude its quantitative easing program this week. Volatility has returned to markets, with the S&amp;P 500 recently declining more than 9% before sharply rebounding, while the bond market had one of its most volatile days in history as the US 10-year yield fell 37 basis points in just a few hours.  And in the background of all of this is the declining price of oil, which on Monday fell below $80 a barrel for the first time in over two years, and a Russian economy that is looking at a dramatically depreciating ruble.  We asked our favorite economists, analysts, bloggers, and hedge fund managers for the chart they're watching right now. What they responded with was a collection of charts reflecting the increasing market fears about deflation, the economic malaise in the eurozone, and the growing suspicion that maybe the Fed's QE program will be reinstated faster than many people currently expect. And despite the uncertainty, many of our experts offered reasons why we should be optimistic. So without any further ado, here is what some of the sharpest folks on Wall Street are focused on right now.
en.wikipedia.orgWelcome to Herzogenaurach.HERZOGENAURACH Germany (Reuters) - Adidas needs world-class designers, brand experts and technical whizzkids to improve its image against U.S. rival Nike, but persuading them to move to its headquarters in rural Germany is difficult. Adidas has been losing market share to the world's biggest sportswear brand Nike, which is seen as far cooler in consumer surveys and is based near the hip U.S. city of Portland, Oregon. Adidas acknowledges it is hard to recruit at its headquarters near the Bavarian town of Herzogenaurach, particularly for design, marketing and digital roles, and admits it missed trends in the U.S. market, where Under Armour &lt;ua.n&gt; has just overtaken it as No. 2 behind Nike. Nike's better than expected earnings on Sept. 25 underscored its ascendancy. Adidas is responding by locating some key design roles in the United States at the same time as investing heavily in new facilities at its home base near the historic Bavarian town where Adidas was founded by shoe maker Adi Dassler in 1949. "We need a lot of that top talent that is cutting edge. Ideally, they are working in the tech industry, in marketing organizations or are coming from top competitors. We need an environment that appeals to them," said Steve Fogarty, who is responsible for employer branding and digital recruiting "Designers tend to gravitate to very large, international cities like Berlin, Amsterdam, London and it is a bit harder to convince them to move to the center of Germany." REUTERS/Michaela RehleInside Adidas HQ.Eric Liedtke, the American who took over as Adidas head of global brands in March, has promoted Paul Gaudio to the role of global creative director and moved him from Herzo to the firm's U.S. base in Portland in a bid to turn around its fortunes in the world's biggest market for sporting goods. Close to 1,000 Adidas staff are based in Portland, compared with Nike's 8,500-strong workforce in the area. Gaudio announced on Wednesday that Adidas will open a small creative studio in New York's Brooklyn district in 2015 to be led by three young footwear designers he has poached from Nike with a mission to explore design direction for the brand. That will complement existing creative centers in Shanghai, Tokyo and Rio, but the vast majority of the company's hundreds of designers for football, outdoor, Originals fashion, training and running products remain based in Herzo. Adidas shares are down more than a third this year, most recently suffering from a third profit warning in a year in July that the firm blamed in part on a disappointing performance in North America, particularly from its golf business. Adidas trades at 17 times expected earnings, at a discount to Nike's 22.5 times and fast-growing Under Armour's 58 times. Despite the new designers in the United States, long-serving Adidas Chief Executive Herbert Hainer, himself a native of Bavaria, remains committed to the company's base in a region proud of its strong economy and companies including BMW, Siemens, Audi, Munich Re and Allianz. About 3,900 of the total Adidas staff of 52,500 work in and around Herzo, about a third of them from outside Germany, and Hainer said last month the company planned to add 100-150 new staff at its headquarters every year. REUTERS/Michael DalderAn engineer runs over a surface with high speed cameras to test an Adidas running shoe at the Adidas innovation laboratory. While Bavaria has a reputation for beer festivals, lederhosen and conservative politics, Nike's home town of Portland is a city of 600,000 that prides itself on its liberal values and environmental awareness, as well as a proliferation of trendy eateries and microbreweries. Based on a campus in Beaverton, seven miles (11 km) outside Portland, Nike's location in the American northwest also raised questions in its early days in the 1960s, with founder and Oregon native Phil Knight saying everybody originally thought it should be located in New England or the South. But Portland has since become a magnet for the global footwear industry, helped by the relatively short hop to Asian production hubs and a youthful talent pool, prompting Adidas to move its North America headquarters there from New Jersey in 1993, and drawing U.S. brands like Columbia Sportwear and Keen. Herzo, by contrast, is a town of just 24,000 people set in rolling fields, though many Adidas staff commute from the nearby university town of Erlangen or the city of Nuremberg, known for its walled old town, gingerbread and sausages but not for the most vibrant nightlife or fashion scene. Nuremberg has an airport with direct flights to many cities in Europe but not further afield and there is no train link to Herzo from Nuremberg or Erlangen, meaning most staff have to commute by car. Herzo's biggest employer is family-owned Schaeffler, which has 9,000 staff in the town, mostly in technical roles producing precision products for the auto and aerospace industry. It is also home to rival sportswear firm Puma &lt;pumg.de&gt;. Conscious that it was not the best location for a big global consumer brand, Adidas considered leaving Herzo in the 1990s when the company was trying to rebuild its fortunes after flirting with bankruptcy following the death of founder Dassler in 1978 and then his son Horst in 1987. But when the departure of U.S. troops from Germany at the end of the Cold War freed up the military base outside Herzo, local authorities persuaded Adidas to stay. It moved its headquarters to the base in 1998 from an overcrowded office in downtown Herzo and has been expanding the campus ever since. Herzogenaurach mayor German Hacker said surveys showed that foreign inhabitants particularly value the high quality of life and security that the town offers. "Herzogenaurach is a sheltered and manageable town. That is its charm, but you can get to big towns in 10-15 minutes if you want," he said. One former employee, who declined to be named because they still work on a contract basis for Adidas, said they left the company because they found living in Bavaria too boring. "It is so odd that this company is in the middle of farmland. It doesn't have anything to do with style," the person said. Adidas recruiting expert Fogarty, who spent three years working in Herzo but moved back to Portland last year, says the vast majority of staff describe working in Germany as an amazing experience once they arrive. He set up a website to extol the virtues of Herzo, featuring employees from around the world praising the rural running tracks near the office, local beer festivals and the proximity to Alpine ski slopes. (http://herzo.adidas-group.com/) Fogarty, who often has to get up at the crack of dawn in Portland to speak to colleagues nine hours ahead in Herzo, said Adidas does not lose staff due to the location of its base as it is flexible about where people work. "While our headquarters is technically in Herzo, the opportunity to work in many locations is already here, so why invest in moving the headquarters?" he said. However, the experience of Puma, founded by Adi Dassler's brother Rudolf after the two split a joint business, shows the pitfalls of dispersing key staff. Puma had based its product management and design team for its lifestyle range in London to be closer to fashion trends, but decided last year to move the division to Herzo as it sought to centralize functions as part of a restructuring program. Puma is in the process of trying to reaffirm its sporting roots after sales tumbled in recent years. Puma had lost its reputation for sports performance gear by moving too far into the fashion business. Despite investing in fashion brands like NEO and Originals, Adidas has so far stayed true to its sporting heritage. Adidas recently announced plans to build two new buildings - with a capacity for 3,600 staff - at its "World of Sports" campus outside Herzo and is about to open a 16-metre-high climbing wall in the grounds. The Adidas campus already features sports fields and stylish buildings including a futuristic low-rise "brand center" clad in black glass that opened in 2006 and a marketing and operations office called "Laces" that opened in 2011 and features criss-crossing walkways above a light-filled atrium. "You can work in a dull office in the middle of Munich or an awesome office two hours north of Munich," said Christian Dzieia, Adidas director of property development. An on-site fitness center with daily yoga and aerobics classes opened last year as well as a bilingual kindergarten for 110 children and a campus canteen revamped with input from German celebrity chef Holger Stromberg. "We're hiring a lot of people with a huge passion for sport whose eyes light up when they walk around the campus," said Fogarty. "You have the best of both worlds, where you can walk onto this international campus with a lot of high-tech facilities and then go have lunch in a thousand-year-old Bavarian village."  (editing by Anna Willard and Janet McBride) FREE AppDownload
Buffalo Wild Wings sales rose 6% in the third quarter. The good news comes at a time when casual dining chains like Olive Garden, Red Lobster, and Applebee's are struggling to attract customers.  Shares are soaring in after-hours trading, a sign that Wall Street believes the restaurant chain's growth will continue. Here are a few reasons business is booming.  1. Paying attention to the calendar. This year has been full of sporting events, from the NCAA tournament to the World Cup. Buffalo Wild Wings pays special attention to the calendar and times promotions around these events, executives told analysts and investors on a conference call. Advertising restaurants as a go-to place to watch games was an effective tactic, writes Mark Brandau at Nation's Restaurant News.  2. Improving the experience. Buffalo Wild Wings has implemented several changes to make eating there more convenient. More than 190 restaurants have added tableside tablets, which allow customers to play games while they're waiting for food. The brand is also installing technology to pay at your table, eliminating the annoying wait after a meal.  3. Server technology. Buffalo Wild Wings is planning to equip servers with hand-held systems for sending orders to the kitchen or accepting payment from diners, Brandau writes. This will improve communication between servers and cooks and will help accuracy. 4. Focused strategy. Buffalo Wild Wings focuses on beer, wings, and sports, CEO Sally Smith told Business Insider last year.  While casual dining restaurants in general work to differentiate in the space, Buffalo Wild Wings has succeeded by focusing on its strengths.  FREE AppDownload
Everyone wants to work in tech these days — especially for big-name companies like Google, Apple, Microsoft, and Facebook. In fact, these tech giants topped LinkedIn's 2014 ranking of the 100 most in-demand employers, taking four of the top five spots. The professional networking site based its ranking on member awareness and engagement on LinkedIn by looking at how many people viewed employees' profiles and how many users followed the company's Company or Career pages within the last year. Here's the full list of this year's top employers, according to LinkedIn: Skye Gould/Business Insider  FREE AppDownload
When the news that Rothmann's Steakhouse on East 54th Street was closing started spreading around Wall Street, there was no unanimous reaction — but a reaction, there definitely was. While some former patrons wrote goodbye letters befitting the sadness of losing a serious hang spot, others were all too happy to see the place go. After all, SkyBridge Capital CEO Anthony Scaramucci had Rothmann's in mind when he came up with the plans to launch his own restaurant that would be an alternative to Midtown spots, which are “not fun.” In other words, Rothmann's was polarizing. It's location, however, is still prime Wall Street stomping ground.  And now that celebrity chef Charlie Palmer has taken over the space — turning it into Charlie Palmer Steak New York — Business Insider decided to check it out and see if it's likely Wall Street will come to more of a consensus over this new restaurant. So here's the deal. Rothmann's was an old school joint. Low lights, carpet, dark furniture. Charlie Palmer is a more modern steakhouse. You still have your TVs turned to ESPN and financial news, but the space seems more open and less like the clubhouse. The furniture is more sleek and the lights are brighter.  Business InsiderThe oysters and beef carpaccio.You can imagine that has its positive points and negative points. To properly evaluate a steakhouse you need to do the following: Check out the wine list, drink a martini, try some of the raw bar, order an array of sides, and specify (clearly) how you want your steak done. It's not rocket science, but it's not for the weak either. We started off with oysters and beef carpaccio. The oysters were fantastic, but the carpaccio was over done. The best thing about carpaccio is its raw simplicity. This iteration had too many bells and whistles — sauce, jalapenos etc.  No, Charlie, we came here for the beef. The drinks were solid, though, and this is key for a Wall Street hang. After a hard day working in capital markets, people need their comfort drink and they need it done right. The Business Insider gin martini (up with a twist) was executed to perfection.  Also, it should be noted that, aside from a moment of flakiness with our sommelier the staff was super attentive.  For our sides we picked up french fries, creamed spinach, and macaroni and cheese. The mac and cheese won everything. It was on the creamier side of mac — rather than the casserole side — and it was on par with some of the best steakhouse macs in the city. The fries were also awesome. The creamed spinach, however, left a little to be desired. The flavor of the cheese sauce wasn't powerful enough. You still felt like you were eating something your mom was making you finish. Now for what really matters — the steak. Technically, it was an achievement. Like most sentient adults, we decided to order our Porterhouse for two medium rare. It was perfectly crispy on the outside, and pink on the inside — all points for technique. There was a problem, though. The steak needed the green pepper sauce we ordered on the side. It was good sauce, we were happy to use it, but the steak needed it. That should not be. Sauce should always be optional on a steak — an afterthought that you throw in for a little diversity on your palate through a long steak meal. Your steak shouldn't need sauce. The sauce is like putting flippers on in a swimming pool — sure, it makes you faster but sometimes you'd rather just lounge around anyway. Charlie Palmer Steak is delicious and certainly less stuffy than its predecessor, but it could be simpler. It will, however, do the job. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersAn Amgen sign is seen at the company's office in South San Francisco(Reuters) - Amgen Inc  on Monday reported higher-than-expected third quarter profit and revenue, helped by strong demand for its white blood cell booster, Neulasta, and increased sales of newer drugs, and the company raised it full-year forecast. The world's largest biotechnology company's net profit fell for the quarter primarily due to a $376 million charge related to restructuring moves it announced in late July. Amgen said it now expects 2014 adjusted earnings of $8.45 to $8.55 per share, up from the boosted forecast it provided in July of $8.20 to $8.40 per share. The company expects full-year revenue of $19.8 billion to $20 billion. It previously forecast $19.5 billion to $19.7 billion. Amen posted a net profit of $1.24 billion, or $1.61 per share, down from a profit of $1.37 billion, or $1.79 per share, a year ago. Excluding items, Amgen earned $2.30 per share. Analysts on average expected $2.11, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.  (Reporting by Bill Berkrot; Editing by Chris Reese) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ueslei MarcelinoBrazil's President and Workers' Party (PT) presidential candidate Dilma Rousseff celebrates during a news conference after disclosure of the election results, in Brasilia Oct. 26, 2014Stocks went nowhere to start the week after news out of the European banking on Sunday wasn't much of a surprise while crude oil prices fell hard early in the session but recovered about $1 of their losses during the day. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Monday: 1. On Sunday, Brazilian President Dilma Rouseff was reelected, and the market did not take kindly to the news. Stocks on Brazil's Ibovespa exchange fell 2.5% on Monday, though the 'EWZ' ETF that trades in New York and tracks Brazilian stocks lost about 5% following the news. Rouseff's challenger, Aecio Neves, was considered the more business-friendly candidate. Among the notable losers following Rouseff's election were shares of Brazil's state-controlled oil company Petrobras, which saw shares trading in New York fall more than 13% on Monday.  2. Crude oil prices fell again on Monday, falling below $80 a barrel early on Monday for the first time since June 2012. Throughout the day on Monday, crude recovered most of its losses, but the early morning drop in crude followed a research report out of Goldman Sachs over the weekend that saw the firm take its price target for oil down to $70 a barrel by the second quarter of next year.  3. On Monday, markets were still digesting the results of the European Central Bank's stress tests, which saw 25 of 130 banks fail the test, with banks from Italy having heavy representation among the banks that could need a capital injection under the ECB's adverse scenario. Among the questions still lingering for investors is why the ECB elected not to include deflation as scenario under an "adverse" scenario.  4. In the US, we got some economic data from Markit Economics, which released its October flash PMI reading for the services sector, which came in at 57.3, a six-month low. Any reading above 50 for this report signals expansion. In a release, Markit said, "Service providers attributed higher levels of business activity to supportive domestic economic conditions and an associated upturn in incoming new work. However, in line with the trend for output levels, the rate of new business growth eased to a three-month low in October and was softer than the post-crisis high recorded in June." 5. Pending home sales rose just 0.3% in September, up from a 1% decline in August, but a bit lighter than the 1% rise that was expected by economists. "Housing supply for existing homes was up in September 6% from a year ago, which is preventing prices from rising at the accelerated clip seen earlier this year," said the National Association of Realtors' Lawrence Yun. "Additionally, the current spectacularly low mortgage rates should help more buyers reach the market." 6. In Europe, German business confidence fell to its lowest point since August 2012, with the October survey showing confidence falling to 103.2 this month, down from 104.7 in September and missing expectations for a 104.3 reading. Following the report, Claus Vistesen at Pantheon Macro said, "The headline German business confidence index continues to point to subdued growth ahead for the industrial sector in the euro area’s largest economy, with the decline in both the headline and expectations reinforcing the downtrend that began in April." 7. GoPro shares were among the big losers on Monday, with the wearable camera company seeing its stock decline more than 9% on Monday, a move that follows a 9% decline on Friday. GoPro is set to release third quarter earnings after the market close on Thursday. Don't Miss: THE MOST IMPORTANT CHARTS IN THE WORLD » FREE AppDownload
Kimberly White/Getty ImagesTwitter CEO Dick CostoloTwitter delivered a good earnings report, but it wasn't good enough. Twitter's stock dropped 10% after the report hit despite delivering results that were in line with expectations.  Basically, investors don't want Twitter to meet their lowered expectations, they want Twitter to blow them away.  That didn't happen. Here are the numbers: For Twitter, the only thing that really matters is user growth. On the earnings call, CEO Dick Costolo explained his view of Twitter users.  He sees users as a concentric circle with core users at the center of the circle. Outside of that is logged out users, who are 1-2X the size of the core logged in users. Outside of that are people that just see tweets syndicated across other media.  Costolo believes Twitter has an opportunity to convert those logged out users into logged in users. Short of that, he also thinks Twitter has an opportunity to generate revenue from them.  Twitter CFO Anthony Noto talked about logged out users in depth during the call. He said there are four ways logged out users end up at Twitter: 1. They do a specific search for something related to Twitter, and they land at Twitter. 2. They do a general search for a topic and end up at Twitter. 3. They come to Twitter.com, but get no content and just bounce off the page. 4. They see tweets on ESPN/CNN/etc. and come to Twitter. In each of these cases, Noto said there are things that Twitter can do to convert logged out users to logged in users. BI Intelligence BI Intelligence BI Intellgence BI Intelligence FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Philip TaylorSurvey says... a lot of American millionaires would support higher taxes. PNC Wealth Management did a survey of millionaires* and found that 44% of them would either strongly or somewhat support "raising taxes on the top income earners" as a way to address inequality.  This answer had the lowest support out of the four options, but still comes out to nearly half of this group of wealthy people supporting higher taxes on themselves (assuming of course they recognize that they are, in fact, the top income earners). Nearly 70% support giving to charities focused on poverty or hunger. 64% support scholarship opportunities for children from low income families, and 49% support raising the minimum wage.  Here's the slide from PNC's presentation:  PNC Wealth Management   * Defined as adults who have investible assets over $1 million. Also note that there is a +/- 6% margin of error in the sample. FREE AppDownload
APThe BP oil spill spewed 172 million gallons of oil into the Gulf in 2010.WASHINGTON (AP) — New research shows that the BP oil spill left an oily "bathub ring" on the sea floor that's about the size of Rhode Island. The study by David Valentine, the chief scientist on the federal damage assessment research ships, estimates that about 10 million gallons of oil coagulated on the floor of the Gulf of Mexico around the damaged Deepwater Horizons oil rig. Valentine said the spill left other splotches containing even more oil. The rig blew on April 20, 2010 and spewed 172 million gallons of oil into the Gulf through the summer. Scientists are still trying to figure where all the oil went and what effects it had. This study is in Monday's Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. NOAANOAAAnalysis by NOAA, compiled by SkyTruth.Cumulative BP / Deepwater Horizon oil slick footprint (orange).  FREE AppDownload
It's refreshing, it's a little bit annoying, and it's incredibly necessary. Here's the fascinating science behind the sneeze.
Melia Robinson/Business InsiderMartin Greenfield's menswear factory is the last unionized men's clothing factory in New York City with more than 100 employees.A menswear factory in Brooklyn has been "doing things the old-fashioned way" for more than 60 years. Martin Greenfield Clothiers produces handmade men's suits, an impressive feat considering less than 3% of clothes sold in the U.S. is American-made. Most U.S. apparel companies outsource their labor to places where clothing is faster and cheaper to make. But Martin Greenfield isn't in the menswear business for the money alone. Greenfield arrived at Brooklyn manufacturer GGG Clothes in 1947 from Czechoslovakia; it was his first job in the States. He carried unfinished garments from one station to the next. A poster boy for the American Dream, Greenfield worked his way up from blind stitcher to supervisor to vice president, and eventually bought the factory, renaming it in 1977. Today, he continues the tradition of making suits by hand at his four-floor warehouse in East Williamsburg, Brooklyn, where his client list includes Barack Obama, Bill Clinton, Michael Bloomberg, and Leonardo DiCaprio. "I see my suits being worn all over the world," Greenfield says. "I love to see the results." You can read more about Greenfield's life story in his upcoming memoir, "Measure of a Man: From Auschwitz Survivor to Presidents' Tailor," which goes on sale November 10. 
The University of Pennsylvania has produced more billionaire undergraduate alumni than any other school in the world, according to a recent report from Wealth-X. 25 current billionaires received their bachelor's degrees at Penn, the most of any school on Wealth-X's list. The only other colleges to produce similar numbers were Harvard University — with 22 undergrad alum billionaires — and Yale University — with 20. Although UPenn is home to the Wharton School, which is considered to be a top business school for both undergraduate and graduate students, Wealth-X president David Friedman told Business Insider that the school's powerhouse reputation doesn't have a huge impact on its ultra-wealthy alumni base. "On the surface I think that's a contributing factor, but it's definitely not a core driver" of UPenn's high number of billionaires, Friedman said. Rather, Friedman noted, UPenn's billionaires represent successes in an array of fields, which suggests that the university isn't focused entirely on channeling students into financial services or technology. To this point, Friedman mentioned three billionaires who got their undergraduate degrees at UPenn — Tory Burch, Elon Musk, and Steven Cohen — who made their money in fashion, technology, and finance, respectively. Other UPenn billionaires include Donald Trump, Charles Butt, Jon Huntsman Sr., Ronald Perelman, George Lindemann, and Leonard Lauder. Whatever you attend school, Friedman emphasized the importance of actually finishing college and getting a bachelor's degree. "There's this myth that if you want to be a tech billionaire, you drop out of school," Friedman said. "This kind of dismantles that myth. It's about people, relationships, networks." Additionally, Friedman highlighted something that he believes is not being discussed enough on college campuses — encouraging students to take a risk and fail. "Most entrepreneurs have failed multiple times ... I think it's a very critical element, because emotional endurance is one of the most critical attributes for entrepreneurs," Friedman said. Here are the 20 universities with the most billionaire undergraduate alumni and how many alumni they have, via Wealth-X: 1. University of Pennsylvania — 25 2. Harvard University — 22 3. Yale University — 20 4. University of Southern California — 16 5. Cornell University — 14 5. Princeton University — 14 5. Stanford University — 14 8. University of California, Berkeley — 12 8. University of Mumbai (India) — 12 10. London School of Economics (United Kingdom) — 11 10. Lomonosov Moscow State University (Russia) — 11 12. Dartmouth College — 10 12. University of Michigan — 10 12. University of Texas — 10 15. Duke University — 9 15. New York University — 9 17. Brown University — 8 17. Columbia University — 8 19. Massachusetts Institute of Technology — 7 20. Eth Zurich (Switzerland) — 6 FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA vacant and blighted home, covered with red spray paint, sits alone in an east side neighborhood once full of homes in DetroitDETROIT (Reuters) - Detroit could only deal with its fiscal woes, including a big public pension burden, by filing for bankruptcy and tapping into the city's one abundant asset, land, to reach settlements with key creditors, an attorney said on Monday. Bruce Bennett, Detroit's lead attorney at law firm Jones Day, began closing arguments in the biggest-ever municipal bankruptcy case, working to win federal court approval for the city's 1,165-page debt adjustment plan. "This plan is very broadly consensual at this point and the city has settled with all the objectors and all the major economic players in the city of Detroit," Bennett told U.S. Bankruptcy Court Judge Steven Rhodes, who must determine if the plan is fair to creditors and feasible for the city to implement. Rhodes, who began a confirmation hearing on the plan Sept. 2, has said he will deliver his ruling late next week. Bennett's remarks came after an attorney for creditors that own Detroit pension debt announced a final deal to end their objections. That deal, which includes bond insurer Financial Guaranty Insurance Co (FGIC), includes a provision allowing for creditor participation in developing city land. In the case of FGIC and the debt holders, they would have an option to turn the site of the Joe Louis Arena into a mixed-use development, including a convention hotel. Bond insurer Syncora Guarantee Inc, Detroit's fiercest objector, also settled last month in a deal that includes the development of vacant land. Bennett said that no other municipality in bankruptcy has been able to shed $7 billion of its $18 billion of debt, partly by having its creditors participate in its reinvestment effort. Another milestone in the case was the so-called grand bargain, which taps a pool of money from foundations, the Detroit Institute of Arts and the state of Michigan to ease pension cuts and protect art work from being sold to pay creditors. The grand bargain was instrumental in winning support for the plan from the city's retirees. But Rhodes questioned whether retirees would get a 100 percent recovery under the plan because it aims to eliminate an unfunded pension liability versus smaller recoveries for other city creditors. In his closing statement, Bennett said the city could not be forced to sell assets like art to enhance creditor recoveries -- a point disputed by Syncora and FGIC before they settled. He also said that Detroit was literally taxed out. "Detroit’s taxes are higher than many cities in the state of the Michigan and our services are not anywhere close to the best in Michigan," he said. Earlier on Monday, an attorney for investment firms that own 90 percent of the $1.1 billion of certificates of participation insured by FGIC and who were the last significant objectors in the case, announced a settlement.   (Reporting by Lisa Lambert; Additional reporting by Karen Pierog in Chicago; Editing by Bernadette Baum and Andrew Hay) FREE AppDownload
Ahhh – pocket squares. One of my favorite accessories, they have come back into fashion after decades of being “gone.” Which if you know me ... is a bit of a joke as in my opinion, pocket squares are timeless. They never go out of style, and are the perfect way to top off a well fitted suit or sport jacket! But the knowledge of how to properly fold a pocket square has not been passed onto most men. Not to worry – we are filling the gap with this simple pocket square infographic. Want more?  I explain each fold in more detail in this support article – click here. Real Men Real Style Now that you know 9 pocket square folds, you can play around with different styles. You can also check out this article on matching pocket squares with different clothes. FREE AppDownload
A new study shows that the glass ceiling is still alive, and that women are very under-represented at the very top of the income scale. The study, published in an NBER working paper by economists Fatih Guvenen of the University of Minnesota, Greg Kaplan of Princeton University, and Jae Song of the Social Security Administration, uses individual earnings history data gathered by the Social Security Adminstration from 1981 to 2012 to investigate gender disparities in the top 1% of the income distribution. The main result of the paper showed that, while the share of women in the top 1% and 0.1% has gone up quite significantly over the last thirty or so years, the gender breakdown at the top is still very lopsided. This chart shows the proportion of women in the top 1% and 0.1% of earners. The dotted lines represent one year earnings, and the solid lines represent five-year average earnings. The black lines show the top 0.1%, and the grey lines show the rest of the top 1% outside of the 0.1%: Guvenen et. al., Oct. 2014 The authors of the paper point out that in the early eighties, women only made up about 2% of the top 0.1% earner group, and just a little more than 3% of the rest of the 1%. By 2012, women made up 10.5% of the top 0.1%, and 17% of the rest of the top 1%. While those proportions have gone up dramatically over the last three decades, women are still very under-represented in the top income cohorts. Fewer than one in five one-percenters are women. The authors of the paper also noted that there has been very little increase in the share of women in the top 0.1% since 2000, as can be seen in the chart. The above chart shows the glass ceiling by looking at the percentage of women in the highest income groups. Another way to look at the data is to look at the top income percentiles for men and women separately. This chart from the paper shows the average earnings for the top 0.1% of men (black lines) and for the top 0.1% of women (magenta lines): NBER The authors of the paper noted that, "In 2012, men had to earn roughly twice as much as women in order to be included in the top 1 percent of their respective gender-specific earnings distributions and nearly three times as much in order to be included in the top 0.1 percent of their distributions." In other words, the top tenth of a percent of men are much richer than the top tenth of a percent of women. One commonly proposed explanation for gender earnings gaps is that women are working in different careers than men. The authors of this paper, however, found that among top income groups, men and women are working largely in the same industries. This chart shows the distribution of different industries in which the top 0.1% of men and women worked: Guvenen et. al., October 2014 According to the authors of the paper, "although some variation can be seen across industries, today there is no single industry, or subset of industries, in which top earning females are disproportionately absent." With a growing interest in inequality, and a proliferation of new data sources and methods to study who is at the top, this paper sheds light on a previously understudied aspect of inequality. The glass ceiling, although weaker than thirty years ago, still clearly exists, with women very under-represented in the highest income groups. For more detail and other results, read the NBER working paper here. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA zoomed image of a computer screen showing the Amazon logo is seen in Vienna NEW YORK (Reuters) - Amazon.com Inc &lt;AMZN.O&gt; is buying online comedy service Rooftop Media, a small deal that underscores the Internet retailer's broader ambition of becoming a media and entertainment powerhouse. Amazon is persisting in buying content to round out its service, with designs to take on Netflix Inc &lt;NFLX.O&gt; and other online digital media services. But that increasing spending has helped keep the company in the red, inviting criticism from investors. Audible, the audiobooks service it bought in 2008 for $300 million, is picking up the 10-person company for an undisclosed sum. Audible founder and Chief Executive Donald Katz said in a statement on Monday the company had been attracted by Rooftop's content as well as its pool of comic talent. Rooftop records comedians at clubs across the country and licenses the digital rights to thousands of hours of comedy, which is broadcast either live or later on demand. The company's media partners include Apple Inc &lt;AAPL.O&gt; and Yahoo &lt;YHOO.O&gt;, and it also works with streaming services such as Sirius XM &lt;SIRI.O&gt;, Spotify and Pandora &lt;P.N&gt;. Its content now becomes part of Audible, itself a fast-growing seller of online audiobooks, and vastly increases Rooftop's audience, said Rooftop Chief Executive Officer Will Rogers. Amazon is expected to continue acquiring digital content at a rapid clip. In past years, it began investing heavily to branch out from its online retail roots, delving into Hollywood-style content production as well as developing a line of tablets, smartphones and set-top boxes to accelerate the sale of digital content. Chief Executive Officer Jeff Bezos' vision of becoming a tech and media powerhouse, however, has drawn protests from an investor community that for years overlooked its lack of profits because of red-hot revenue growth. That growth may be in danger of stalling. Last week, the company missed revenue and income expectations and projected a disappointing 7 to 18 percent rise in holiday-quarter sales. Amazon's stock was up 0.6 percent on Monday but is down about a third from January.  (Reporting by Liana Baker; Editing by Meredith Mazzilli and Cynthia Osterman) FREE AppDownload
Ray Dalio's $160 billion hedge fund behemoth Bridgewater Associates is suing two former employees for allegedly "lying to the market about their former roles" while marketing their new hedge fund to investors, according to a complaint filed last week in US District Court for the Southern District of New York. Bridgewater's complaint alleges that Wenquan "Robert" Wu and Howard Wang — the founders of Convoy Investments — both lied about their roles at the Westport, Connecticut-based firm.  "Despite having served in only low-ranking roles at Bridgewater with limited responsibility, Mr. Wu and Mr. Wang have tried to pass themselves off in several public forums as former key figures responsible for core aspects of Bridgewater's business," the complaint states.  According to Bridgewater, they were both low-ranking, junior-level employees who worked for a couple of years in Information Technology and Client Services, respectively.  Bridgewater claims that after they confronted Wu and Wang, the two men took down some, but not all, of the statements about their roles. Wu's bio on Convoy's site currently states that he was part of Bridgewater's operations team. His Linkedin page states that at Bridgewater he "was part of a small team that built and oversaw components of back office systems." Both of those profiles mention that Wu is a CFA charterholder. We were unable to locate any records listed under his name in the CFA member directory.  Wang's bio on Convoy's site says that he "spent his career managing portfolios for institutional investors, most recently at Bridgewater Associates where he and Robert first met." His bio also says that he was "part of the investment associates team working with some of the largest and most sophisticated investors in the world, including sovereign wealth funds, pensions, endowments and foundations." Wang's LinkedIn profile also says pretty much the same thing.  Convoy InvestmentsRobert WuBridgewater also claims Wu and Wang "kept their competitive ambitions hidden — telling Bridgewater that they were 'traveling,' 'ballroom dancing,' and only passively advising 'friends and family' on how to invest their money." After the non-compete period was up, Bridgewater said "they began marketing Convoy as 'a global macro investment hedge fund' that caters to the very clients Bridgewater has successfully serviced for years."  Bridgewater is seeking to have Wu and Wang cease making these allegedly "false advertising claims." The hedge fund is also seeking to recover unspecified damages. Convoy Investments made headlines earlier this year for operating as a hedge fund that wouldn't charge a performance fee. Instead, they're only charging a 1.25% management fee. It was a pretty radical approach to the hedge fund compensation structure commonly known as the "2 and 20," which stands for a 2% management fee for total assets under management and a 20% performance fee charge for any profits. "2 and 20" is the standard in the industry (that's what Bridgewater uses), but those numbers can vary from fund to fund.  In recent years, it has become harder for fund managers to justify the fee structure, especially because most funds have been underperforming the broader market.  Wu and Wang declined to comment. A spokesperson for Bridgewater also declined to comment.  Here's the complaint: Bridgewater Complaint by Julia Reynolds La Roche  FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesT. Boone Pickens says he's working just as much as he did when he was younger.While many people his age spend their days at the beach or on the golf course, 86-year-old energy tycoon T. Boone Pickens remains hard at work as chairman of BP Capital Management, the investment firm he founded in 1997. In fact, Pickens tells The New York Times Magazine in a recent interview that his old age can actually give him an advantage over the competition. That's because his decades of experience in business have prepared him for just about anything that can happen in a given day. "There are very few things I see that surprise me," Pickens tells The Times Magazine. "I've seen it or something close to it with each thing I come across." Pickens also says he keeps the same hours as he did 40 years ago, arriving at the office at 8 a.m., following a morning workout with his personal trainer. The corporate takeover specialist has previously boasted to Business Insider that he is capable of curling 30-pound weights, in comparison with the "pitiful" 10-pound weights President Barack Obama was seen using this past summer. FREE AppDownload
Howard Lutnick just handed over $25 million to his alma mater, Haverford College.  The Cantor Fitzgerald CEO made the largest single donation in the history of the school last week, according to the Philadelphia Inquirer. Lutnick was given free college tuition after his father died unexpectedly at the beginning his freshman year, leaving him orphaned.   Lutnick serves as the chairman of the college's board of managers, and has given $65 million to the school over the last 25 years. The donation will go at least in part toward major renovations to the library. Cantor Fitzgerald's offices were at the top of one of the towers of the World Trade Center when the building got hit in the September 11 terrorist attacks. The firm lost 658 of its 960 employees, more than any other company. Lutnick only survived because he was taking his son to his first day of kindergarten that day.  FREE AppDownload
Nearly half of the apartments in one of New York’s most expensive neighborhoods are empty for the majority of the year.  Data from the Census Bureau’s 2012 American Community Survey reveals that, 285 out of 496 apartments, or 57 percent, in a three-block stretch of Midtown, from East 56th Street to East 59th Street, between Fifth Avenue and Park Avenue, are vacant at least 10 months a year.  From East 59th Street to East 63rd Street, 628 of 1,261 homes, or almost 50 percent, are vacant the majority of the time.  “My district has some of the most expensive land values in the world — I’m ground zero for the issue of foreign buyers,” State Senator Liz Krueger, whose district includes Midtown, told the New York Times. “I met with a developer who is building one of those billionaire buildings on 57th Street and he told me, ‘Don’t worry, you won’t need any more services, because the buyers won’t be sending their kids to school here, there won’t be traffic.’”  The developer told her that the buyers basically would never be here. “He said it like this was a positive thing,” she added.  It should be noted, however, that the Census Bureau data does not drill down into individual buildings. State Senator Brad Hoylman is proposing legislation to charge an additional tax to owners of expensive pieds-à-terre.  According to the proposal, owners of a pied-à-terre priced between $5 million and $6 million would pay 0.5 percent of the amount over the $5 million threshold in annual taxes. This would gradually increase, capping off at properties of more than $25 million, where the owner would pay a $370,000 annual fee plus 4 percent of the amount over $25 million. (via New York Times). FREE AppDownload
The Bureau of Labor Statistics publishes quarterly data on employment and wages based on businesses' reports for the unemployment insurance program. They just released a breakout of the data focusing on nonprofit organizations. Using that data, here's the average annual wage from 2012 in each state for employees of non-profit organizations: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from BLS DC had the highest nonprofit wage, at $66,053 per year, while Wyoming had the lowest at $31,744. Here's a table showing each state's average non-profit wage and each overall wage: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from BLS
Reuters/Eduardo MunozLarry Robbins, the founder of Glenview Capital and board member of the Robin Hood Foundation.Larry Robbins, the best-performing hedge fund manager of 2013, is making a bullish bet on Millennials. He thinks they're ready to take on some of the life experiences they had to defer because of the financial crisis — like buying a house and getting a dog. Robbins, who runs Glenview Capital, spoke about this at the Robin Hood Investors Conference last week. The event, which featured some of the biggest names in the hedge fund world, was closed to the media. Business Insider obtained a copy of Robbins' full presentation. We're unable to share the slides. In the presentation, Robbins points out that birthrates are cyclical. Birthrates are typically negative during major economic and geopolitical events. Because of the recent financial crisis, Millennials have deferred having kids, owning a pet and buying a house in their mid-20s to their mid-30s. A recovery in the US birthrate, though, will benefit industries like hospitals, pet ownership and home ownership, according to Robbins. To play this trade, Robbins, the founder of Glenview Capital Management, is betting on the hospital operator Community Health Systems (CYH), the animal hospital operator VCA Inc. (WOOF), and the real estate brokerage Realogy Holdings (RLGY).  Editor's note: We're unable to share the slides.  FREE AppDownload
The Fine Young GentlemanWe can’t deny it any longer. Winter is coming. Time to start making those necessary acquisitions to bolster your wardrobe for the colder months. I’ve identified 10 trends that you may want to take note of for the season. Some focus on the casual side of things and other the formal side. Either way, when incorporated properly into your wardrobe, they will help you up your style game for years to come. This article originally appeared at Jay Butler.  Copyright 2014. Follow Jay Butler on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Wings and sports chain Buffalo Wild Wings (NASDAQ: BWLD)  recently confirmed it was sponsoring the Citrus Bowl on New Year's Day as part of a multiyear deal with the college football game's promoter, Florida Citrus Sports. It's a welcome development for the restaurant's investors, who have been crying in their beer since the company reported second-quarter earnings that, while beating consensus estimates, left many feeling it will continue suffering from a World Cup hangover. Corporate sponsorshipsSome corporate sponsorships of sporting events appear to be a waste of shareholder resources. There's no logical connection between the business and the sport being sponsored, so the companies are simply hoping for a reasonably inexpensive increase in brand awareness, possibly international in scope, to make the pricey bet pay off, while giving executives and their favored customers a chance to rub elbows with some stars. Other times there's just not enough of a special relationship to make it worthwhile. Coca-Cola (NYSE: KO) is estimated to have paid between $25 million and $50 million to be one sponsor of the 2014 World Cup games in Brazil , along with the vast sums paid to market the sponsorship, yet all that failed to lift its sales results appreciably. Similarly, McDonald's (NYSE: MCD) paid between $10 million and $25 million, yet its business is still in free fall, and Arcos Dorados (NYSE: ARCO) , its franchisee in Latin America, recorded 3.5% lower revenue for the second quarter that ended June 30. While that was only about two weeks' worth of World Cup games, even the build up to the event couldn't boost sales. Even when there is a seemingly good matchup between the company and the sports fan base -- for example, rent-to-own leader Aaron's and the NASCAR average demographic -- it still seems unlikely that it will generate enough revenue to make the deal pay off. Yet sometimes synergies are successfully realized in these sponsorships. Think of Nike's (NYSE: NKE) long sponsorship of Tiger Woods. You might not always be able to put a dollar figure to the payout, but the two have long been synonymous (the same couldn't necessarily be said of Buick's sponsorship of the golf great, though). So, what about B-Dubs?Buffalo Wild Wings and college football would seem to fit into that synergistic category. The restaurant chain is already associated with watching sports (though the World Cup didn't help it, either), and its new "stadia" model seeks to capture the thrill of being at an event itself by immersing customers in a 360-degree, big-screen viewing opportunity. Although financial terms of the sponsorship weren't revealed, B-Dubs said it will receive national exposure through TV, radio, social, and digital media, along with various forms of advertising throughout central Florida and in-stadium signage. While it's not on the roster of top bowl games, the Buffalo Wild Wings Citrus Bowl will host teams not in the college playoffs from the Big Ten and Southeastern conferences. It also serves as a replacement game for Buffalo Wild Wings, which lost bowl sponsorship in Arizona after talks with the Fiesta Bowl broke down. B-Dubs had naming rights for Fiesta's junior bowl game (PepsiCo's Tostitos brand owned the rights to the main Fiesta Bowl).  There's been a bit of musical chairs with bowl names lately, with Northwestern Mutual taking over the Rose Bowl in Pasadena, Calif., replacing television maker Vizio, and Capital One Financial replacing Discover as the Orange Bowl's sponsor in Miami. Capital One had been the sponsor of the Citrus Bowl. Sponsorships can be tricky plays, but B-Dubs' sponsorship of the Citrus Bowl at least puts it back in the game. Follow Rich Duprey's coverage of all the restaurant industry's most important news and developments. He owns shares of Nike. The Motley Fool recommends Buffalo Wild Wings, Coca-Cola, McDonald's, and Nike. The Motley Fool owns shares of Arcos Dorados, Buffalo Wild Wings, and Nike and has the following options: long January 2016 $37 calls on Coca-Cola and short January 2016 $37 puts on Coca-Cola.  FREE AppDownload
The Wyss Institute at Harvard University has developed a device that can remove Ebola among other viruses from the bloodstream. Produced by Matthew Stuart Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Learn how to combine different colors when choosing your clothes in the morning. Produced by Matt Johnston Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Shares of GoPro were down another 5% on Monday, adding to their 9% decline on Friday, as shares of the wearable camera company continue to slump.  Friday's decline in GoPro shares followed an initiation of research coverage on the stock by analysts at Oppenheimer, who put an Underperform rating and $45 price target on the stock, according to StreetInsider. In just the last three trading days, GoPro is now down more than 14%, and in late morning trade on Monday, shares were trading near $68. And with the recent decline, shares of GoPro are now down more than 25% from their all-time high of around $98 per share hit earlier this month. GoPro is set to report third quarter earnings after the market close on Thursday. Expectations are for the company to report earnings per share of $0.08 on revenue of $263.45 million, according to estimates from Yahoo Finance. Here's the chart showing the recent drop in GoPro shares. Google Finance FREE AppDownload
The Washington Institute For Near East PolicyThe Islamic State (or ISIS) is “the best-funded terrorist organization we’ve confronted,” but “we have no silver bullet, no secret weapon to empty ISIS’ coffers overnight.” These were the words of David Cohen, the undersecretary for terrorism and financial intelligence at the U.S. Department of the Treasury in a speech yesterday, in which he outlined the U.S. government’s assessment of ISIS finance and a strategy to counter it. According to Cohen, ISIS’ principal source of finance is still derived from its control and sale of oil, which he assessed was still bringing in $1 million a day. Additional funds come from kidnap for ransom, extortion networks, criminal activities, and donations from external individuals, the latter being of least significance in terms of scale. In order to counter this broad base of financial incomes, Cohen explained that U.S. strategy is focused on disrupting ISIS revenue streams, restricting ISIS access to the international financial system, and targeting ISIS leaders, facilitators and supporters with sanctions. Despite vastly underestimating ISIS’ potential in the months and years leading up to the organization’s 2014 offensives in Syria and Iraq, the Treasury’s, and by extension the U.S. government’s assessment of ISIS finance and how to combat it does seem largely in tune. It is indeed right that external financial donations are of minimal significance to ISIS. Since as early as 2005, ISIS predecessor organizations Al-Qaeda in Iraq (AQI), Majlis Shura al-Mujahideen, and the Islamic State in Iraq (ISI) all consistently sought to develop internal structures dedicated to maintaining financial self-sufficiency and an independence from potentially vulnerable external donors. In the current climate, however, a diminished capacity to earn from the sale of oil may elevate the importance of external sources of funding for ISIS to sustain its internal durability. For this reason, it is more important than ever to now focus on existing ISIS donors abroad — particularly in the Gulf — in order to diminish their potential to expand in scale when the need may arise. As Cohen made clear, initiatives in Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates appear to have made some headway, while in Kuwait and Qatar, Cohen assessed that despite new legislation aimed at countering terrorist financing, both countries remain "permissive jurisdictions" for such activities and that "both countries have more work to do." At this point, it is unclear whether new legislation — introduced in Qatar in mid-September and in Kuwait, in January — has been slow to make an impact, or is simply not powerful or as far-reaching as is necessary. Whatever the case, it remains evident that more needs to be done by Qatar and Kuwait to enforce their laws. Stringer/ReutersSmoke rises from a Shiite mosque after it was destroyed in an ISIS bomb attack in the city of Mosul on July 23, 2014.No Gulf state has an interest in facilitating or turning a blind eye to terrorist financing, as the recipients of such funds are explicitly hostile to them. In fact, ISIS has periodically singled out Qatar and its Ministry of Foreign Affairs in particular, as being kuffar (nonbelievers) for its role in apparently providing humanitarian aid through member groups of the Islamic Front in northern Syria — a body ISIS labels sahwat, in reference to the tribal militias who rose up against the ISI in Iraq in the mid-to-late 2000s. Extortion and illicit taxation systems are also a significant source of income for ISIS, and potentially one of the most sustainable. Prior to capturing Mosul, ISIS was already earning $12 million a month in the city alone. This is now being replicated, though in a more organized manner, across ISIS-controlled territory and covertly in other areas under its partial influence. However, it should be recognized that this ‘extortion’ and taxation is not always done unilaterally and solely in ISIS self-interest. For example, a sophisticated ISIS taxation system on the main highway between Jordan and Baghdad has been developed which replaces the government’s import tax by charging reduced rates for the transport of goods into the Iraqi capital. The trucking business across western Iraq is primarily controlled by Sunni tribes, and therefore, by imposing lower taxes ISIS earns a steady income but offers its tribal guarantors an opportunity to increase their earnings. Similar systems are in place elsewhere in western Iraq and eastern Syria, with an overriding emphasis place upon this dual focus of earning money while retaining a ‘buy-in’ from tribes that ISIS existentially relies upon for its societal survivability. The sustainability of ISIS extortion and taxation makes it a tough nut to crack in terms of counter-terrorist financing. As Undersecretary Cohen stressed, truly eroding this source of ISIS income means breaking its hold over territory. But this is simply not going to happen without genuinely capable local ground forces following up targeted coalition strikes. Iraqi Army units are still losing and retreating under ISIS attack in Anbar province, while quite remarkably, US-backed rebels in Syria still complain of having had no coordination with coalition action. Dept. of Defense/Amanda Macias/Business InsiderA before and after aerial photo of an ISIS-controlled Gbiebeoil refinery.Disrupting ISIS’ oil income is more of a challenge that might meet the eye. Thus far, a great deal of focus has been placed on an erroneous assessment that ISIS is deeply reliant on selling its oil to foreign customers (in Turkey, Iraqi Kurdistan, Jordan and elsewhere). Instead, while this market focus does exist, it is decreasing. Since the summer, ISIS has been increasingly focused on establishing a durable internal market for its oil produce, thereby ensuring a reliable source of fuel for its own fleets of vehicles but crucially creating a source of dependence between civilians and its capacity to provide them cheap oil. In this respect, the fact that recent coalition strikes have targeted oil at its source — rather than its means of transport or sale, for example — may prove deeply damaging to the international community’s efforts to counter ISIS. In recent discussions with nearly two-dozen armed groups in Syria, this was highlighted as a critical error in strike targeting (not to mention wider frustrations within the opposition regarding strikes). Winter is only weeks away and oil to fuel generators, bakeries and other key local facilities will be short in supply, to say the least — both within and outside ISIS territory. Should ISIS have proven incapable of transporting oil to civilians, it would likely have been forced to shoulder the blame, but with the oil wells and makeshift refineries themselves now destroyed, ISIS will try (and may likely succeed) in shifting the blame on ‘the Crusaders.’ “You’ve given them a real gift,” were the words of one prominent rebel leader. While ISIS has long focused on financial self-sufficiency and independence, Al-Qaeda is founded on a different model, whereby regional affiliates find themselves within a decentralized structure held together in part by established individual donors and financial networks. Al-Qaeda’s affiliate in Syria, Jabhat al-Nusra, is no different in this respect, with its principal source of income deriving from external donors, while ransoms, a minimal internal taxation system, and activity in local black markets also contribute. The prominence of external funding — from individuals (many in the Gulf) and internal Al-Qaeda networks around the world — makes for a more identifiable counter-terrorist finance target. An intensified identification and sanctioning of individuals suspected of involvement in facilitating the collection and transfer of money to Jabhat al-Nusra appears to have rubbed a serious dose of salt in a wound caused by the group’s loss of oil fields in eastern Syria to ISIS earlier this year. While an apparently dwindling source of income has seen Nusra expand its kidnap-for-ransom operations, the group has also accelerated a process of internal change whereby it is thinning out its forces and increasingly adopting a more ‘typical’ Al-Qaeda nature. Fadi al-Halabi/AFP/Getty ImagesSupporters of the Al Nusra Front take part in a protest against Syrian President Bashar Al Assad and the international coalition in Aleppo on Sept. 26, 2014.According to rebels in Idlib, Hama, and Aleppo, Nusra is currently selling off heavy weapons in northern Syria, both to earn much needed income, but also to transform into more of a light rapid reaction force capable of redeploying to other battles with ease. Its senior leadership is becoming less Syrian and the influence of veteran Al-Qaeda commanders is increasing. Foreign fighters are receiving a heightened public profile, while an overt emphasis on the group’s ‘Syrian-ness’ has reduced notably. While Nusra has dedicated provincial commands in Aleppo, Hama, Idlib, Homs, the Qalamoun, Damascus and Deraa (the latter incorporates Quneitra), its presence in its Idlib stronghold and to some extent also in Deraa is becoming increasingly self-interested and unilateral in nature. This shift in Nusra’s internal structure and public operational posture may be part of its natural evolution, but it appears to have been accelerated by diminished finance. Moreover, the initiation of coalition strikes against its externally focused ‘Wolf’ unit in Aleppo has likely consolidated this radicalizing shift. Ironically therefore, counter-terrorist measures may be creating more of an enemy in Jabhat al-Nusra than was there before. Countering terrorist finance is an intensely complex and challenging effort. In the short-term, it can bring a combination of positive and negative consequences, but in the long-term, if done right, it can cripple a terrorist organization’s capacity to operate and grow. ISIS and Jabhat al-Nusra are two entirely different beasts in this regard, and they should be treated as such. In controlling such vast amounts of territory and resources, ISIS is more vulnerable in the immediate term, but its potential capacity to shift blame onto the international community for its reduced capacity to provide must be borne in mind. Though necessitating a gargantuan effort in minimal time, the provision of large quantities of diesel fuel and oil for generators into opposition areas of northern Syria should be an immediate policy priority. In the long-term, rolling back ISIS will only come from a meaningful offensive by well-resourced and capable indigenous ground forces. In Syria, home to ISIS’ capital city, this appears to be a very long way away, unfortunately. Jabhat al-Nusra, meanwhile, still retains extremely significant popularity within the opposition. It remains extraordinarily difficult to get Syrian rebels, including defected secular nationalist officers, to condemn Nusra’s role within the armed opposition against the Assad regime. This has been very subtly changing though, thanks to Nusra’s internal evolution. Should financial pressure continue to be enforced, a process of gradual seclusion may accelerate over time. It remains extremely difficult, nigh on impossible for external actors to totally defeat terrorist organizations. Instead, such groups tend to eventually destroy themselves from within. Countering their sources of finance can expedite this process, but only when done gradually and when based on a genuinely accurate assessment of the organization and its surrounding dynamics — both the fish and the sea, to use Mao’s famous words. Charles Lister is a visiting fellow at the Brookings Doha Center. He was formerly head of MENA at IHS Jane's Terrorism and Insurgency Center, where he focused on substate security threats in the Middle East. Lister's current research assesses the state of the insurgency in Syria, particularly the growth of Salafi and jihadi groups. He is currently authoring a book, "The Jihadist Insurgency in Syria". FREE AppDownload
It's almost impossible to catch a cab when it's raining. But why? Economist Henry S. Faber examines this not-so-simple problem in a paper out this month. First, Faber explains the standard economic view of why it might be harder to find a taxi. Credit to Twitter's Ben Southwood for flagging up the research: That it is difficult to find a taxi in the rain has been a standard complaint in Manhattan for as long as there have been taxis. If asked why this is the case, the answer from an economist 20 years ago would have been that rainy weather increases the demand for taxi rides and there is no or an insufficiently rapid supply response to meet this transitory demand. But there's another view, which suggests that rain doesn't only drive up the demand for taxis, it also drives down the supply of drivers, making the problem worse from both angles. Basically, the idea is that drivers are often "target earners". They're self-employed, and instead of working for a set number of hours per day, they work to a mental income target. Once they've got to the target, they clock off, and one fewer taxi is on the road. So when it rains, and demand for taxis spikes, drivers are inundated with work. They reach their target income earlier and stop working. That was the finding of four economists in 1997, who became the founding fathers of the "what taxis do in the rain" school of microeconomics. But according to Faber, that's just not true.  In his studies, New York taxi drivers behave much more like an economist's model would expect them to. Drivers want to work more when they are able to get increased wages, or more work, than when they can't. They won't just clock off when they have reached some arbitrary level, because there are still significant opportunities for them to earn. Faber says that's true of anticipated increases in income (like holidays, or certain times of the day) as well as unanticipated ones (like the rain).  "The overall pattern is clear. Drivers tend to respond positively to both anticipated and unanticipated increases in earnings opportunities," said Faber.  With these findings, he's blown the foundations of our understanding of what taxi drivers do in the rain. So next time you can't catch one, blame your fellow passengers, not the driver. FREE AppDownload
Brazil is crashing after President Dilma Rousseff beat challenger Aecio Neves over the weekend. Now Rousseff has four more years to turn the Brazilian ship around. The once-booming country is experiencing high inflation, thin corporate margins, and low growth. Stocks are crashing now because Wall Street was hoping the center-right Neves would win the election and become the man to take on this task. It's a tough task already, and it's getting only tougher as global market conditions continue to fall out of Brazil's favor — especially when it comes to the country's big commodities exports like steel. “What we’re seeing on the ground is a significant reduction in confidence domestically within China as it pertains to building and construction, which is where a lot of steel goes,” Paul O’Malley, CEO of the $3 billion international steel company Bluescope, told the Australian Financial Review. “Yes there is still growth [which] may well return, but at the moment, the heyday is over.” Brazil needs this moment of limited demand to end now, but China's slowdown isn't ending anytime soon. Global demand isn't changing. Hedge fund manager Paul Tudor Jones, who recently spoke at the Robin Hood Investor Conference, said he thought commodities would suffer from limited demand until 2020. Now this isn't anything new, but it seems as if Monday has been a gut-check day for Brazilian investors. Those who were hoping for the quick confidence jolt of a Neves win were disappointed, and it's showing in stocks like Vale. Vale is the $54 billion Brazilian iron ore producer — the world's largest. And yes, the company has been trading at five-year lows because of a supply glut. On Monday, the stock was down 6%. Yahoo Finance  It's important to understand that this story has wide implications for the global economy. A Chinese slowdown hurts every company and country that has been supporting that. Think: Brazil and Australia specifically. As demand falls off in China, it will be harder for companies to manage supply. Pay close attention. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ueslei MarcelinoBrazil's President Dilma Rousseff. The market is open and stocks are lower while oil is breaking down again. In early trade the Dow was down 34 points, the S&amp;P 500 was down 8 points, and the Nasdaq was down 25 points. Meanwhile, crude oil fell below $80 a barrel for the first time since June 2012 in early trade on Monday as energy prices continue to tumble around the world. In a note to clients over the weekend, Goldman Sachs cut its outlook for oil prices to $75 a barrel for WTI in the first quarter of next year and $70 a barrel in the second quarter of next year.  Stocks in Brazil are also getting crushed after president Dilma Rouseff won reelection on Sunday, with Brazil's main Bovespa stock index falling as much as 6%.  Rouseff was seen as the less business-friendly candidate, and investors are not taking kindly to her win.  Among the big individual losers following Rouseff's win were shares of Petrobras, down as much as 16% after the result.  On the economic data front, Markit Economics' flash reading for US service sector activity slowed to a six-month low of 57.3, though this reading still shows expansion.  Pending home sales rose 0.3% month-over-month in September, below expectations for a 1% increase but better than the 1% decline seen in August.  FREE AppDownload
Pending home sales climbed by just 0.3% month-over-month in September, up from a 1.0% decline in August. However, this was a bit lighter than the 1.0% increase expected. Loose monetary policy and low US Treasury rates have pushed mortgage rates to their lowest levels in over a year. However, relatively tight lending standards have prevented prospective buy from getting access to loans. "Housing supply for existing homes was up in September 6% from a year ago, which is preventing prices from rising at the accelerated clip seen earlier this year,” said the National Association of Realtors' Lawrence Yun. “Additionally, the current spectacularly low mortgage rates should help more buyers reach the market.” FREE AppDownload
Dimitrios Kambouris/GettyUS service sector activity remains solid but slowed to a six-month low in October. The latest flash reading on US services PMI from Markit came in at 57.3. Expectations were for the flash reading to come in at 57.8, down from last month's 58.5 flash reading and 58.9 final reading. Any reading over 50 indicates expansion, while readings below 50 indicate contraction.  According to the latest release from Markit, "Service providers attributed higher levels of business activity to supportive domestic economic conditions and an associated upturn in incoming new work. However, in line with the trend for output levels, the rate of new business growth eased to a three-month low in October and was softer than the post-crisis high recorded in June." More to come ... FREE AppDownload

Petrobras, the $84 billion quasi-state Brazilian oil company, is down 15%. It may very well be an ugly trading day until the close. Yahoo Finance This latest selloff can be traced back to last night, when Dilma Rousseff won a second term as Brazil's President. Wall Street was pulling for center-right candidate Aecio Neves. But if you've been following the Petrobras story, you know that it's been selling off for some time. The stock is down 24% over the last three months. Short-sellers like Jim Chanos — who says the company is a "scheme not a stock" — have been laying out the bear thesis for the company for some time, too. Basically, the government has been forcing Petrobras to absorb the cost of energy subsidies it was giving Brazilians. "They [the Rousseff regime] were doing fiscal policy through the development bank and through Petrobras," said economist Claudio Loser, founder of researcher Centennial Group. "The company has been really suffering. Two years ago I would've said the company looked good. So while regime change would not have made a difference in the immediate economics of the company or the country, it would've made a difference for investor confidence. FREE AppDownload
Thomson Reuters A Bank of America sign is shown on a building in downtown Los Angeles, California(Reuters) - A standoff within the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is stalling the final piece of Bank of America Corp's record $16.65 billion settlement with the U.S. government tied to troubled mortgage-backed securities, Bloomberg News reported, citing people with knowledge of the matter. The settlement, announced in August, has hit a roadblock due to a dispute between the SEC's commissioners over waiving a set of additional sanctions that will come to effect when the settlement is entered in court, the report said. (http://bloom.bg/12QFcRm) The disagreement is over the waiver that will allow the bank to seek investors for private firms, Bloomberg reported. Two Democratic SEC commissioners are unwilling to grant Bank of America's request for a waiver, and with two Republicans supporting relief measures, the SEC is in a deadlock as its Chair Mary Jo White, the swing vote, refrains from participating due to a conflict, Bloomberg reported. Bank of America and the SEC were not immediately available for comment. The three main penalties that can be imposed on any lender can affect its ability to manage mutual funds, raise capital for private companies, and remove its privilege to issue its own shares or bonds without SEC approval, Bloomberg reported. The settlement announced by the U.S. Department of Justice requires for the second-largest U.S. bank by assets to pay $9.65 billion in cash to resolve more than a dozen federal and state investigations, and provide $7 billion in help to struggling homeowners and communities.  (Reporting by Amrutha Gayathri in Bangalore; Editing by Savio D'Souza) FREE AppDownload
Jefferies CEO Richard Handler has a new rule for dealing with market volatility.  "We are never as brilliant as we think we are when all is going swimmingly well, and we are never as dumb as we feel when everything goes wrong pretty much all at once and we just cannot seem to catch a break," Handler wrote in an email he sent out to Jefferies employees late last week.  During October, the financial markets have been absolutely wild. We have heard chatter about hedge fund managers sharing stories of having an uncharacteristically tough time navigating the market. Trading this month's volatility has been challenging, but Handler sees it as a "much needed reality check."   Here's Handler's letter:  How quickly and violently the markets, environment, and mood can change. During the summer and even through the often dangerous month of August, the financial markets were generally vibrant, volatility was a word we forgot how to spell, deals were moving forward readily, the global economy was improving and felt almost safe, and we and all of our clients were enjoying solid success. Boy, did many of us feel smart.  Somehow, Labor Day rolled into September and, dare we say it, October. Extreme volatility, European slowdown fears, Ebola, ISIS, the distressed market rolling over in a crowded wave of panic, margin calls, “collapsing” oil prices, redemptions in most asset classes, and a flight to safety once again to the U.S. bond market. And now, many of us don’t feel so smart. The point we are making here (in case it isn’t completely obvious) is that we are running in a very long and complicated marathon, serving our clients as we work to build Jefferies. Further, the arena we all work in is the most treacherous of all playing fields: the global financial markets. It is not easy to do what we do day in and day out. We believe this recent, somewhat instantaneous and fairly violent change of direction affords us a perfect time to remind each other of a very important and simple rule: WE ARE NEVER AS BRILLIANT AS WE THINK WE ARE WHEN ALL IS GOING SWIMMINGLY WELL, AND WE ARE NEVER AS DUMB AS WE FEEL WHEN EVERYTHING GOES WRONG PRETTY MUCH ALL AT ONCE AND WE JUST CANNOT SEEM TO CATCH A BREAK. This rule is unbreakable and is one of the cornerstones of creating long term wealth and happiness. Arrogance and hubris can easily become quick friends whenever one is on a winning streak. People often stop listening to those who disagree with them or, even worse, start surrounding themselves with people whose job priority is to reinforce the sheer level of permeated brilliance. Risk taking increases, because: “why not, I’m really good and smart, damn it!” Elbows become a little sharper because why should someone so brilliant suffer someone who is not? Attitudes towards co-workers, both upward and downward can take an embarrassing turn for the worse. Basically, this is the moment when the wheels just start to fall off the bus. Fortunately, this behavior is rarely seen at Jefferies, but who are we to say it is non-existent? When you are down in the dumps, it is easy to just want to blame everyone but the person in the mirror. It is easy to get demoralized and question all the things that just a few weeks prior you accepted as known truths. The thought of throwing in the towel is an extreme and rare reaction, but it is easy to just start going through the motions in a demoralized manner, which only serves to lay the foundation for future mediocrity, and then the eventual move back up occurs and by then you never know how or why it happened. We do not want to be melodramatic here. The financial markets did not just suffer a 2008 systemic crisis moment. They just had a nice stretch when it was perhaps almost too easy that has just been interrupted by a much needed reality check. As unwanted and painful as this all is, we believe it can be a good thing and can renew our opportunity.  We are building Jefferies and our careers for the long haul. We have some clients who have felt real pain. We have some beaten up individuals around the firm. Everyone is with you when you are on top of the world. True leaders and partners, though, are there to help pick up our clients, our own people, our family and our friends when they are down. We might not all have been geniuses in August, but none of us are fools today in October. Let’s help our clients, support each other, attack the rest of this month and the month of November with a nice bounce in our step, and finish our fiscal year strong. Moving forward with the confidence of all of us working together, Rich and Brian FREE AppDownload
Steve Ballmer paid $2 billion for the Los Angeles Clippers.  But a new report from the Financial Times said he might get about half of what he paid back in the form of tax benefits over the next 15 years. Ballmer's purchase was a record for NBA franchises, coming at nearly four times the next-highest amount ever paid for an NBA team. But the FT found that using a goodwill tax exemption allowed for sports teams, Ballmer could get back $1 billion in taxes. Here's how the FT lays it out: Under an exception in US law, buyers of sports franchises can use an accounting treatment known as goodwill against their other taxable income. This feature is commonly used by tax specialists to structure deals for sports teams. Goodwill is the difference between the purchase price of an asset and the actual cash and other fixed assets belonging to the team. In this case, Mr Ballmer can spread the goodwill over 15 years and reduce his tax liability on his other income by a certain amount for each of those years. Using a conservative model that assumes Mr Ballmer could account for $1.5bn in goodwill and a re-investment rate of 7 per cent, the potential tax credits equate to about $1bn in current terms. Representatives for the LA Clippers and Mr Ballmer declined to comment. Ballmer's purchase also came a few months ahead of an expected huge new TV deal for the league, which in October was reported to be worth $2 billion per year.  Back in August, Ballmer made headlines after he got really, really fired up at an introductory pep rally with Clippers fans. And now Ballmer can get excited about saving a bunch of money, too. FREE AppDownload
Crude oil just broke $80. In morning trade on Monday, the price of crude oil fell below $80 a barrel for the first time since mid-2012 as energy prices continue to plummet around the world. The most recent drop in oil, which has been a bear market since topping out at about $107 during the summer, follows a cut in oil-price expectations from Goldman Sachs' Jeff Currie over the weekend. Currie took his oil-price forecasts for WTI Crude to $75 a barrel in the first quarter of 2015 and to $70 a barrel in the second quarter of next year.  Longer-term, Currie expects WTI prices to stabilize near $80 a barrel, and Currie said that "uncertainty around the required price to slow down US shale production growth is a key risk to our forecast." Currie's forecast relies on three key reasons: Here's the ugly chart of oil futures on Monday morning, which are off their worst levels but still below $80. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Fahad ShadeedSaudi Arabia's Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi.According to Deutsche Bank, the Saudi government can sustain itself for almost 8 years with Brent crude at $83/bbl. The nation's government has accumulated sufficient "rainy day funds" to withstand a prolonged period of budget deficits driven by low oil prices. Deutsche Bank via Sober Look Armed with such staying power, Saudi Arabia is undercutting the competition in order to expand market share. They know they have the funds to outlast most of the competitors. The goal is to pressure OPEC cheaters as well as to shake out US "tight oil" producers. The Saudis could presumably deal with the notion of US "energy independence", but having Americans export large amounts of crude (currently being debated in the US) and compete head on with OPEC is not acceptable. While Saudi Arabia cannot entirely stop the growth of North American production, it is going to try slowing it. The Saudis launched their attack with the comment that the nation "will accept oil prices below $90 per barrel, and perhaps down to $80, for as long as a year or two". With energy markets already soft, the selloff acceleration ensued. Another recent development shows that the Saudis are also willing to back their statement with action. With OPEC already producing 700-900K bbl/d above its quota, Saudi Aramco started undercutting the competition by lowering prices. Deutsche Bank: - ... we can observe that the differential of Saudi Arabia’s Arab Light blend versus the Oman/Dubai average for Asian deliveries has fallen sharply from a premium of USD1.65/bbl for September loadings to a discount of USD1.05/bbl for November loadings. This suggests that Saudi Aramco is determined to maintain current levels of exports at the expense of sales prices achieved. This represents the sharpest discount since the -USD1.25/bbl level observed in December 2008, during a quarter in which global oil demand contracted by 3.0 mmb/d, in contrast to the current quarter when we still expect oil demand to grow by 0.8 mmb/d. Deutsche Bank via Sober LookThe November OPEC meeting is expected to be tense, with a number of nations pushing for production cuts. But ultimately the Saudis will prevail and the pressure on high-cost crude producers will continue. Pain will be felt in Iran, Russia, Venezuela, as well as across the North America's energy sector. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Pilar OlivaresA worker walks past a banner of Brazil's President Dilma Rousseff.Global investors are selling off Brazilian equities Monday morning, after Dilma Rousseff was narrowly re-elected as the country's president Sunday.  Hoping for a win from pro-business candidate Aecio Neves, markets are expressing their disappointment. Brazil's Ibovespa, the main index of stocks, fell by more than 6% as Brazilian markets opened. Google Finance That's just adding to the pain around the world. In Frankfurt, the part-nationalized Brazilian energy giant Petroleo Brasileiro was down 14.56%.  And in Paris, the Lyxor ETF Brazil, an exchange traded fund that tracks the country’s Ibovespa index of equities, was down 10.77%. It's the same story across the world. The main ETF tracking Brazil in Japan opened down more than 7%. And according to Andres Abadia at Pantheon Macroeconomics, it's likely to get worse before it gets better: Over the last four years, the Ibovespa has fallen close to a third, and it is down slightly this year-to-date. The real has weakened 33% since Ms. Rousseff took power, and markets — correctly, in our view — see few signs of hope for a turnaround. We doubt Ms. Rousseff will begin the significant shift to a more market-oriented economy that the country needs. The economy will continue in its slow growth, high inflation, mode for the foreseeable future. We therefore expect markets to remain under pressure. The Brazilian currency, the real, is down another 2.99% against the dollar today, back below $0.40. It's dropped by about 12% since the beginning of December, and has been declining for years:  Bloomberg FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's BlogDespite the steady improvement in the Index of Coincident Economic Indicators (CEI) since the end of the last recession, there continue to be lots of downbeat assessments of the performance of the US economy during the current expansion. But there is potentially an important upside. Consider the following: (1) A very long recovery. It has taken 68 months--from January 2008 through October 2013--for the CEI to fully recover from its severe decline during 2008 and early 2009. The previous five recovery periods averaged 26 months with a range of 19-33 months. (2) Looking forward to a long expansion. The good news is that the average increase following each of those recovery periods through the next peak was 18.6% over an average period of 65 months with a range of 30-104 months. If we apply these averages to the current cycle, then the CEI would peak in 54 more months during March 2019 with a substantial gain from here. By the way, also looking forward to a long expansion are manufacturing companies, as evidenced by soaring new orders for industrial machinery. They jumped 5.9% during August, and 28.4% during the past three months. They’ve been in record-high territory since March. Also rising to a record high were new orders for metalworking machinery. Dr. Ed's BlogToday's Morning Briefing: Bottom of the Barrel? (1) From “Peak Oil” to “Trough Oil.” (2) Oiling the secular bull market in equities. (3) Transports at record high as Energy loses energy. (4) Raising Energy sector back to market-weight because stocks are cheap. (5) Downside of oil prices is a known unknown. (6) Saudis can inflict only so much pain on others before it hurts them too. (7) China is bargain hunting. (8) Technology could reduce breakeven for shale oil producers. (9) More upside for US economy following long recovery. (10) Industrial machinery orders soaring. (11) “St. Vincent” (+ + +). (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
 REUTERS/Stefano Rellandini The Monte Dei Paschi bank logo is pictured at the bank's headquarters in Siena January 25, 2013. Italian bank Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena is dealing with customers concerns over losses linked to derivative trades and will complete a review of those deals by February 10, its chief executive Fabrizio Viola said on Friday.MILAN (Reuters) - Italy's Consob has banned short selling on Monte dei Paschi's shares on Monday and Tuesday, the Italian market regulator said in a statement. Shares in Italy's third biggest bank lost more than 17 percent on Monday after results from a pan-European health check of lenders showed on Sunday that Monte dei Paschi faced a capital shortfall of 2.1 billion euros - the biggest gap among the 130 lenders under scrutiny.     (Reporting by Francesca Landini, editing by Valentina Za) FREE AppDownload
Shares of the biotech company Sarepta were down more than 30% in premarket trade on Monday after the company got some bad news from the FDA. In a release on Monday morning, Sarepta announced that the FDA was requiring the company to submit additional data for its planned New Drug Application for the approval of eteplirsen. Eteplirsen is being tested for the treatment of Duchenne muscular dystrophy, a degenerative neuromuscular disorder that causes severe muscle loss and premature death. The disease affects about 1 in 3,500 boys worldwide. In its statement, Sarepta said: "The FDA indicated that further discussion with Sarepta 'will be necessary to determine what would constitute a complete NDA.' Based on these requests, Sarepta plans to submit an NDA by mid-year 2015, pending any additional requests from further discussions with the FDA." In August, Sarepta said it was on track to submit an NDA for eteplirsen by the end of this year.  In a statement Chris Garabedian, president and CEO of Sarepta Therapeutics said: "We are committed to satisfying the FDA’s updated requests for these specific data to be included as part of an NDA submission and will continue to work with the Agency toward the goal of a complete and acceptable NDA filing. We believe all of the data requests and additional FDA discussions that have currently been outlined can be completed in time for an NDA submission by mid-year 2015. Obtaining an FDA approval of eteplirsen for the DMD patients who may benefit from the drug continues to be our highest priority." The negative announcement regarding eteplirsen follows news that Sarepta is working to develop a treatment for Ebola.  That announcement boosted shares earlier this month, but in premarket trade Monday the stock had given up all those gains and then some.  You can read Monday's full announcement from Sarepta here » FREE AppDownload
JonesTrading's Dave Lutz has what traders are chatting about right now: Good Morning!   US Futures are starting slightly lower, being rejected from S&amp;P50dma - mirroring some weaker markets overseas - EU stocks hit post stress-tests, The Bank Sector is under pressure, losing 2%, as Italian banks lose ground hitting the Italian market for 1.9%.  The DAX is off 50bp, and volumes on the continent are running 30% heavier than last week’s quiet holiday sessions – Reminder that EU/UK Clocks rolled, so their markets close at 12:30ET for this week only.  The other big news was from Brazil, where Rousseff Is Re-Elected Brazil’s President – EWZ is getting hit for 10% early – weighing on the EEM where it is a large component.    Over in Asia, Russia’s MICEX is in rally mode, gaining 1% - while China and HK stocks weak as the Exchange link was not completed by today’s anticipated deadline.   In Tokyo, the Nikkei gained 60bp off a heavy short-base, while Aussie jumped 90bp led by Fins – The only group in the red down under was the Miners…  The US 10YY was rejected from 2.3% overnight, while that “Policy Sensitive” 2YY continues to slide lower into the Fed’s Weds announcement – German Bunds have a bid as their IFO dropped to the lowest since December 2012, while despite the Fin concerns, the PIIGS credit market is acting quite well this AM.   The DXY is mixed against majors – but we have WTI off over 1% as GS cuts Brent ($85 from $100) and WTI ($75 from $90) targets.   Metals are mixed, with Gold under pressure gain, while Copper is slightly higher, while the AG complex looks to be under pressure to start the week.    Scheduled catalysts today include Markit US Services PMI at 9:45, Pending Home Sales at 10, Dallas Fed at 10:30, and (potentially) the last POMO operation at 11.   Earnings rolls - AGN, BEN, HUM, MRK, STX, and TEN are all pre-open while AMGN, AVB, CLF, CR, HIG, TMUS, TWTR, and XL are after the close FREE AppDownload
Fund manager John Hussman of the Hussman Funds has been one of the most vocal bears on Wall Street for the past few years. The market has continued to rise strongly in the face of these warnings, which has clobbered Hussman's reputation and performance. But those who are loud and early/wrong on Wall Street are always ridiculed ... unless/until the trend changes. At that point, they become one of the heralded few who were "right." For the past six months or so, Hussman has been increasing the volume of his warnings about a potential market crash. In this week's note, Hussman shares his view that the market's sharp rally over the past seven trading days is not likely the resumption of a rocketship bull market that began in 2009, but a standard bear-market rally. Specifically, Hussman believes that the market rolled over a month ago and is now in the process of crashing. Hussman correctly observes what many investors forget, which is that market crashes don't happen in straight lines down. Rather, they generally consist of sharp plunges followed by sharp rallies followed by deeper plunges followed by rallies ...   Only after many of these roller-coaster moves, Hussman observes, does the market ultimately hit bottom. In support of this position, Hussman offers charts of five previous market crashes and then one of the market today. Note the saw-tooth patterns: John Hussman, Hussman Funds    John Hussman, Hussman Funds John Hussman, Hussman Funds  John Hussman, Hussman Funds   John Hussman, Hussman Funds John Hussman, Hussman FundsStart of a crash?   Unlike many other market forecasters, Hussman is always careful to say that he doesn't know what the market is going to do. But his analysis, which is far more rigorous than that of many who express more certain views, leads him to conclude the following: As I noted last week, “Keep in mind that even terribly hostile market environments do not resolve into uninterrupted declines. Even the 1929 and 1987 crashes began with initial losses of 10-12% that were then punctuated by hard advances that recovered about half of those losses before failing again. The period surrounding the 2000 bubble peak included a series of 10% declines and recoveries. The 2007 top began with a plunge as market internals deteriorated materially (see Market Internals Go Negative) followed by a recovery to a marginal new high in October that failed to restore those internals. One also tends to see increasing day-to-day volatility, and a tendency for large moves to occur in sequence.” My impression is that we are observing a similar dynamic at present. Though we remain open to the potential for market internals to improve convincingly enough to at least defer our immediate concerns about market risk, we should also be mindful of the sequence common to the 1929, 1972, 1987, 2000 and 2007 episodes: 1) an extreme syndrome of overvalued, overbought, overbullish conditions (rich valuations, lopsided bullish sentiment, uncorrected and overextended short-term action); 2) a subtle breakdown in market internals across a broad range of stocks, industries, and security types; 3) an initial “air-pocket” type selloff to an oversold short-term low; 4) a “fast, furious, prone-to-failure” short squeeze to clear the oversold condition; 5) a continued pairing of rich valuations and dispersion in market internals, resulting in a continuation to a crash or a prolonged bear market decline. You can read Hussman's full note here &gt; SEE ALSO: People Don't Like The Word "Crash," So I Won't Use It, But ... FREE AppDownload
AP Images(Reuters) - Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc &lt;vrx.to&gt; &lt;vrx.n&gt; said it is prepared to improve its offer for Allergan Inc &lt;agn.n&gt; to at least $200 per share. The Botox maker's shares closed at $184.21 on Friday. Valeant Chief Executive Michael Pearson said in a letter to Allergan's board that Allergan's stock would not be trading at the multiples it is now if it were not for Valeant's offer. Pearson told Reuters last week that a possible revised stock-and-cash bid would be worth more than $200 per share, assuming that Valeant's stock rises, and would include more cash.   (Reporting by Sayantani Ghosh in Bangalore; Editing by Sriraj Kalluvila) FREE AppDownload
Thomson Reuters(Reuters) - Merck &amp; Co reported lower than expected third quarter revenue, hurt by sharply lower sales of its Gardasil vaccine against cervical cancer, but cost cuts enabled the company to beat earnings forecasts. The No. 2 U.S. drugmaker on Monday said it earned $895 million, or 31 cents per share, in the third quarter. That compared with $1.12 billion, or 38 cents per share, in the year-earlier period. Excluding special items, Merck earned 90 cents per share. Analysts, on average, expected 88 cents per share, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.   (Reporting by Ransdell Pierson Editing by W Simon) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Nacho Doce Garbage bins with campaign stickers of Brazilian President and Workers' Party (PT) presidential candidate Dilma Rousseff and former president Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva are seen during a march in support of Rousseff in Sao Paulo.Good morning! Here's what you need to know: 25 European Banks Fail The Stress Test. The European Central Bank examined how 130 European banks would perform under various adverse scenarios, and 25 of them failed. The review found that those 25 banks had a capital shortfall of €25 billion (or about $32 billion). "Banks with shortfalls must prepare capital plans within two weeks of the announcement of the results," the ECB said. "The banks will have up to nine months to cover the capital shortfall." The World's Oldest Bank Was The Worst. "Italy's Monte dei Paschi di Siena faces a €2.1 billion ($2.7 billion) funding shortfall that could force it to seek a merger, after a European banking review revealed serious weak points in the Italian financial system," Reuters reported. "The historic Tuscan lender, which was founded in 1472 and carried out a 5 billion euro capital increase as recently as June, said on Sunday it had hired Citigroup and UBS as advisers to consider strategic options." What About The Eurozone Deflation Scenario? Amid slowing growth, one of Europe's biggest problems is low inflation, which puts the economy at risk of falling into deflation. This exclusion had folks saying that the stress tests weren't stressful enough. "The scenario of deflation is not there because indeed we don't consider that deflation is going to happen," the ECB's Vitor Constâncio said. "But let me highlight that nevertheless, whereas the baseline scenario which is in the stress test has inflation at 1.6 in 2016, in the adverse it comes down to 0.3. So this drop in inflation is indeed factored in in the exercise and is a very significant drop. So it cannot be said that we did not consider the impact of a scenario of very low inflation. Indeed, we did it in comparison with the baseline." Credit Supply Isn't The Problem In Europe. The ultimate conclusion of the ECB's bank stress tests is that the banking system is relatively healthy. The banks have money to lend. So that's not Europe's problem. "Blockages are concentrated on the credit demand side rather than credit supply,” Societe Generale’s Michala Marcussen said. Markets Are Sliding. In Europe, Britain's FTSE 100 is down 0.3%, France's CAC 40 is down 0.4%, Germany's DAX is down 0.4%, and Italy's FTSE MIB is down 1.7%. Asia closed mixed, with Japan's Nikkei up 0.6% and Hong Kong's Hang Seng down 0.6%. US futures are in the red, with Dow futures down 23 points and S&amp;P futures down 5 points. SPONSORED BY Capco What will the finance industry look like in the years to come? Find out how the financial supply chain is reshaping the "new bank" at the 2014 Banking Reloaded Conference on October 29.Register today to join others in learning about the future of banking. Brazil Re-Elects Dilma Rousseff. Dilma Rousseff had about 52% of the vote, securing her a second term as Brazil's president. While this was largely expected, it is a sign that Brazil faces more of the same ineffective policies. "Over the last four years the country has taken a turn for the worse," BI's Linette Lopez noted. "Low commodity prices have hurt Brazilian exports, and so has a Chinese slowdown. Inflation is high and corporate profits are thin. This is a task that Wall Street analysts thought [center-right candidate Aecio] Neves was better suited for. He ran a campaign on tightening monetary policy and bringing investment back to Brazil." Brazilian Stocks Are Crashing. As soon as markets opened in Asia, a popular ETF tied to Brazil's stock market trading in Japan plunged 7%. Similar ETFs trading in Europe are down by over 9%, led by an 11% plunge in Brazilian energy giant Petrobras. German Confidence Tumbles. Germany's IFO Business Climate Index fell to a 22-month low of 103.2 in October, which was worse than the 104.5 expected by economists. "The overall message from the IFO survey is then one of weak growth ahead, and elevated downside risks for growth in the fourth quarter," Pantheon Macroeconomics' Claus Vistesen said. "This downbeat signal from the IFO, though, is at odds with a more benign outlook as implied by the PMIs, but the survey data are currently broadly consistent with weak growth for the rest of the year." US Economic Data On Deck. At 9:45 a.m. ET, we'll get the Markit US services PMI, which economists estimate will fall to 57.8 in October from 58.9 in September. At 10 a.m., we'll get September pending home sales, which is expected to climb 1.0% month-over-month. The Dallas Fed Manufacturing Activity index at 10:30 a.m. is expected to climb to 11.0 in October from 10.8 a month ago. US Earnings Announcements On Deck. The pharmaceutical giant Merck announced Q3 net earnings of $0.90 per share, which was stronger than the $0.88 expected by analysts. The drug company Allergan releases Q3 results before the bell. After the bell, Twitter announces earnings; analysts are forecasting $0.01 per share on the bottom line. FREE AppDownload
Squeezed between cut-throat competition from online financing firms and rising funding costs, China's midsize banks are falling out of investors' favor as they increasingly lag behind the country's top five lenders. While margins generated from lending have remained broadly stable at the larger banks, they have shrunk considerably for the second-tier lenders like China Everbright Bank and China Merchants Bank over the past six months, a Reuters data analysis shows. And like some of their European peers, those smaller lenders are also lagging behind the big banks in terms of balance sheet strength, analysts say, a factor that is likely to be highlighted in the banking sector's third-quarter earnings. China's five biggest banks are Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Ltd (ICBC), China Construction Bank Corp (CCB), Agricultural Bank of China Ltd, Bank of China (BoC), and Bank of Communications Co Ltd. "The divergence between big and medium or small-sized banks will increase, as the latter see higher fundraising risks due to their weaker capital base," said Fan Cheuk Wan, chief investment officer Asia Pacific in Credit Suisse's private banking and wealth management unit. CCB is due to kick off the banking sector's third-quarter earnings season on Thursday. Second-tier lenders, also known as joint stock banks, have, on average, a market capitalization of less than 300 billion yuan, significantly smaller than the big five lenders. Chinese banks' net interest margins (NI Ms), or the gap between what the lenders pay out for deposits and rake in from loans, have come under pressure from aggressive competition from online financing firms such as e-commerce group Alibaba's &lt;baba.n&gt; Yuebao platform. REUTERS/Bobby YipTop executives from six companies, including China Everbright Bank, and a representative from the Hong Kong Stock Exchange, watch a panel displaying share prices during their debut at the Hong Kong Stock Exchange on Dec. 20, 2013. This is particularly a problem for smaller banks, which have to pay more to fund themselves as their regulatory capital ratio — a measure of balance sheet strength — is on average 1.5 percentage points weaker than that seen at the larger players. "Net interest margins are likely to decline faster for smaller banks in China going forward, as they face rising costs of funding," said Vincent Chan, head of China research at Credit Suisse. The average net interest margin for China's top five banks, has remained stable at around 2.6 percent over the last year. In contrast, the next seven banks saw this key indicator of profitability drop to 1.86 percent in the second quarter from levels previously comparable to the big banks. The margins are seen falling further in the third-quarter. To counter the profit squeeze, investors say second-tier lenders may look to innovate by embracing online finance. "Online e-commerce is one area where the small- and mid-sized banks are a lot more flexible in partnering with a lot of the e-commerce retailers," said Tony Chu, who manages a portfolio for RS Investments, a fund with $24 billion of capital and positions in Chinese banks. The big five banks also benefit from closer ties to the country's top state-owned companies, known as SOEs. Lending to these conglomerates is considered much safer because of implicit government guarantees. "Large SOEs will emerge as winners and you want to be the bank that's lending to them, not the guys that are going to be driven out," said Matthew Smith, a banks analyst at Macquarie. Smith said he was positive about ICBC and CCB versus the smaller lenders since they count more large public companies among their clients. (Editing by Lisa Jucca and Miral Fahmy) FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia Commons[NOTE: We previously reported that BNP Paribas expected $5 billion to remain in the Fed's monthly asset purchase program (QE). This was a mistake in one of BNP's weekly publications. BNP economists actually expect QE to be wound down to $0.] Remember market volatility? From September 19 to October 15, the S&amp;P 500 tumbled 9.8%. However, the S&amp;P has since climbed by 7.9%, with last week being the market's best week of the year. By no means does that mean we're in the clear. We're still far from the all-time high, and there's always the risk that selling will resume. This week, we hear from the Federal Reserve. Everyone's expecting them to finally announce the end of quantitative easing. Anything unexpected could always rattle the markets again. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Commentary Wall Street's equity strategists largely remain confident that the stock market will continue its march higher. Goldman Sachs David Kostin expects to see a new all-time high before the year's over. "As investors recognize the durability of US growth despite faltering global activity, we expect S&amp;P 500 will climb to 2050 by year-end and rise by 10% to 2150 in 12 months," Kostin said. Kostin acknowledges this would come even as earnings growth expectations are deteriorating. For more insight about the middle market, visit mid-marketpulse.com. FREE AppDownload
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - President Barack Obama will launch a series of executive actions on Monday to strengthen U.S. advanced manufacturing, including a $300 million investment in three technologies considered crucial to the country's industrial competitiveness. The White House said in a statement the actions would build on the final report of Obama's Advanced Manufacturing Partnership that recommends measures to spur innovation, secure a skilled workforce and improve the business climate. Obama is meeting at the White House on Monday with the partnership's steering committee, a working group of the President's Council of Advisors in Science and Technology. The White House said NASA and the departments of Defense, Energy and Agriculture would invest more than $300 million in the emerging technologies of advanced materials including composites and bio-based materials, advanced sensors for manufacturing, and digital manufacturing. It said the investments, matched by private-sector resources, would drive advances in the manufacturing of high-tech materials including "new steel alloys that are twice as strong and lighter than today" and new processes to eliminate reliance on foreign supplies of critical materials. As part of the effort, the National Science Foundation will establish up to two manufacturing "centers of excellence" in basic research bringing together universities and industry with a focus on advanced sensors for manufacturing and digital manufacturing. The White House statement added that the Labor Department was launching a $100 Million American Apprenticeships Grant Competition to spur apprenticeships in advanced manufacturing. In addition, the Commerce Department’s Manufacturing Extension Partnership will pilot $130 million competition over five years across 10 states to help small manufacturers adopt new technologies and bring new products to market.     (Reporting by Peter Cooney; Editing by Nick Zieminski) FREE AppDownload
STOCKHOLM (Reuters) - Swedish aerospace firm Saab &lt;saabb.st&gt; has finalized a $5.4 billion order to sell 36 fighter jets to Brazil, one of the most valuable defense contracts up for grabs in an emerging market. Shares in Saab, which in December leapt by a third after it won the bidding, were up 4.5 percent on Monday to 190 crowns at 4:45 a.m. EDT. Saab said in a statement the total order value for the NG Gripen jets, to be delivered between 2019 and 2024, was around 39.3 billion Swedish crowns ($5.4 billion). The company in December 2013 won a long bidding war for the delivery of new fighter jets for the Brazilian air force against France's Dassault Aviation SA &lt;avmd.pa&gt; and Chicago-based Boeing Co &lt;ba.n&gt;. "Since then all parties have negotiated to finalize a contract. Today's announcement marks the successful conclusion of that process," Saab said. Saab said the deal was still pending export control-related authorizations and other conditions that it expected to be fulfilled in the first half of 2015.     (Reporting by Anna Ringstrom; Editing by Mark Potter) FREE AppDownload
Getty Images/Robert CianflonePresident Vladimir Putin. According to Vedomosti, the independent Russian business daily newspaper, the draft budget is based on forecasts of an average oil price of $100 a barrel over the next three years, Western sanctions being lifted in 2015, and an acceleration of growth from next year. Right now, those assumptions look delusional. Since the middle of the year, the oil price has been crashing, falling from a high of $115 a barrel in June to below $86 a barrel Monday. Goldman Sachs believes oil will fall to $80 a barrel, with Morgan Stanley giving a 45% probability that it could hold around that level. This has mainly been due to positive supply shocks with oil production in Libya, Russia, and Iraq all coming in above estimates and the US shale boom continuing to put downward pressure on prices. EIA Morgan Stanley Fears of its impact on the Russian economy have also caused foreign capital to flee the country. The Russian central bank reports that the country has seen $85 billion worth of capital outflows so far in 2014, forcing it to spend over $15 billion of the country's foreign currency reserves to prop up the Russian ruble in October alone. Finance minister Anton Siluanov said that although the government could dip into its reserve fund to meet its spending commitments, "reserves are not infinite, and the poor economic situation may be protracted." The Ministry of Finance is set to propose spending cuts of about 10% of the draft budget, with ministry sources briefing that each state program will be considered. However, the proposals may run into resistance from the Kremlin. Earlier this month, President Vladimir Putin firmly ruled out any cuts to social programs, stating that "we will not have to sacrifice that."   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Laszlo Balogh Major European equities markets opened up early Friday after mostly unsurprising stress-test results from the European Central Bank, but they've all now dropped into the red.  Here's the scorecard, so far: France's CAC 40 is down 0.41% Spain's IBEX is down 1.09% Italy's FTSE MIB is down 1.17% Britain's FTSE 100 is down 0.32% Germany's DAX is down 0.50% Asian markets closed mixed. The Nikkei closed up 0.63%. The Hang Seng closed down 0.68%.  US futures are have also now fallen into negative territory. The Dow is down 10 points, and the S&amp;P is down 2.75 points. The Ifo institute's index of German business confidence might take some of the credit for the sudden slide. It has dropped to the lowest level since 2012, coming in below analyst expectations. Later from the US at 9:45 a.m. ET, Markit’s services PMI is out, with analysts expecting a reading of 58. That’s slightly down from last month but still way above the neutral 50 level that signals growth. September’s figures for pending home sales will be out at 10 a.m. ET.  FREE AppDownload
Google, Apple, and Facebook are known for offering attractive perks, great pay, and excellent workplace cultures — so it's no surprise that they're also three of the world's most sought-after places to work right now. That's according to a new ranking of the 100 most in-demand employers by LinkedIn. The third annual list, announced Tuesday at LinkedIn's Talent Connect conference in San Francisco, is based on an analysis of more than 35 billion interactions between companies and members on the professional networking site. LinkedIn specifically looked at member awareness of every company (how many people have viewed their employees' profiles within the past year), and engagement on LinkedIn (how many members have followed the company's Company or Career Page within the past year). Google snags the No. 1 spot for a third consecutive year. Here's the full ranking of 100 companies. Below are some highlights: LinkedIn FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersMan are reflected on a Honda Motor car outside the company showroom in TokyoBy Mari Saito TOKYO (Reuters) - Honda Motor Co  is likely to post its best July-September profit since the global financial crisis, but a slew of vehicle recalls threatens to delay the roll-out of new models, crimping domestic market sales growth. Japan's third-biggest car maker last week apologized for a fifth domestic recall of its Fit hybrid subcompact, prompting a pay cut for CEO Takanobu Ito and a dozen executives. Honda said it would re-examine its process for developing cars, a move that could delay their debuts. The Fit recalls come on top of more than 5 million cars that Honda has called back in the United States over unrelated issues with Takata Corp's  potentially defective airbags that have been linked to four deaths in Honda's single-biggest market. Honda first recalled the Fit hybrid in October 2013, just a month after its launch, for defective controls on a newly developed transmission system. The latest recall was to fix noise-related glitches unrelated to the transmission. To date, Honda has recalled 163,885 Fit hybrid vehicles in Japan. The series of Fit recalls has so far cost 16.5 billion yen ($153 million), though Honda sees minimal impact on its earnings - due on Tuesday. July-September operating profit is forecast to rise just over 7 percent to 184.1 billion yen ($1.7 billion), according to the average of 14 analysts polled by Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. The Fit recalls could delay other vehicles designed to use the new transmission, said Koji Endo, autos analyst at Advanced Research Japan. Analysts expect the recalls and potential development delays to slow Honda's domestic sales, which the company hopes to push up to a record 990,000 cars in the year to next March. The Nikkei business daily reported on Monday that aggregate domestic sales at Japan's eight car makers would drop below 5 million cars for the first time in two years, with Honda seen selling 950,000 cars. Another drag on Honda's earnings could be a slowdown in high-margin motorcycle sales in Southeast Asia. "The only bright spot for Honda is the weak yen," Endo said. "There's not that much confidence in their three main markets - the U.S., China and Japan. Frankly, Honda's earnings are going to be a little scary." The dollar has risen to 108 yen , while Honda is assuming an average 101 yen for the year.  MILLIONS MORE? Clouding the outlook further for Honda is the risk of more Takata-related recalls in the United States, where there is some political pressure to expand a regional recall nationwide. Recalls so far have focused on areas where hot, humid weather may damage the propellant that triggers the airbag in the event of a collision. Expanding the recalls nationwide would mean an additional 5.3 million cars to fix for various automakers, including Honda, according to Reuters calculations based on data from automakers and the U.S. National Highway Transportation Safety Administration (NHTSA). In an Oct. 15 letter, two Democratic senators singled out Honda for allegedly failing to report information to the NHTSA about possible defects that could cause fatalities or injury. Heightened scrutiny over Honda's response to faulty airbags could hurt its brand value in its most important market. "The concern really isn't the recall cost, but more the potential for this recall to negatively impact the brand," said Kurt Sanger, auto analyst at Deutsche Bank in Tokyo. Shares in Honda have fallen 23 percent this year, while Tokyo's benchmark Nikkei  is down 5.5 percent.  (Additional reporting by Chang-Ran Kim; Editing by Ian Geoghegan) FREE AppDownload
German business confidence has fallen to its lowest point since August 2012, according to the latest IFO Business Climate Index. The October survey showed confidence slipping to 103.2 this month, missing analyst forecasts for 104.3 and below the 104.7 figure in September. EcoWin The decline will compound fears over the health of Europe's largest economy after German government cut the country's economic growth forecast to 1.2% from 1.8% and 2015 forecast to 1.3% from 2% earlier this month. German industry is already showing signs of weakness after seeing a 4% drop in production between July and August. The concern is that weakening sentiment is a sign of further weakness to come for Europe's powerhouse economy, which could add to pressure on policymakers with the eurozone already battling the threat of deflation. As a note from Pantheon Macro suggests: The headline German business confidence index continues to point to subdued growth ahead for the industrial sector in the euro area’s largest economy, with the decline in both the headline and expectations reinforcing the downtrend that began in April ... The overall message from the IFO survey is one of weak growth ahead, and elevated downside risks for growth in the fourth quarter. Pantheon Macro FREE AppDownload
The results of the eurozone's stress tests released on Sunday are pretty bullish. Most of the 130 banks reviewed were relatively healthy, based on the European Central Bank's assessment. Twenty-five banks had a capital shortfall prior to the end of December, when the assessment concluded, but only 13 still need to raise money. Those banks have to come up with a total of €9.5 billion ($12.9 billion), which is basically peanuts in terms of the whole system: The 130 banks in assessment account for €22 trillion ($27.9 trillion) in assets. But there is one colossal elephant in the room that the ECB's comprehensive assessment did not look at — that's because it is out of its hands.  Here's the real problem with the major European banks, in one graph: High Frequency Economics It is easy to see the issue: Banks are not lending enough.  But if very few of the eurozone banks are distressed, and the so-called problem ones need to raise only a small of amount capital to be in good shape, then shouldn't those lending figures bounce back pretty soon? This all leads us to the real issue, which does not have to do with the banking system but with demand for credit.  Here's what analysts had to say Monday morning: Raj Badiani at IHS Global Insight sums it up nicely: “The economy remains enveloped by downturn characteristics, choking of the demand for credit." The eurozone's banks are undoubtedly damaged, and the continent would benefit from a more unified financial system. But consumer confidence, household spending, business investment, and most other measures of economic health have struggled to return to pre-crisis levels in the eurozone, even six years after the financial crisis. Oxford Economics Making sure the eurozone's financial system is in better order than it has been — and more suited to a monetary union — are worthy goals. But it's a mistake to pretend it's going to solve a problem that is beyond the remit of financial regulators.   FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersBrazil's President and Workers' Party presidential candidate Rousseff celebrates after the disclosure of election results, in Brasilia BRASILIA (Reuters) - President Dilma Rousseff narrowly won re-election by spending heavily and promising to extend the fight against poverty but she will need to restore order to public finances in her second term to get Brazil's stalled economy back in gear. Rousseff edged out opposition candidate Aecio Neves in Sunday's election runoff, helped by strong support from the poor despite her struggles to tame high inflation, attract investment and revive an economy in its fourth year of lackluster growth. With the bruising re-election campaign behind her, Rousseff now faces the daunting task of returning the shine to an economy that was once a Wall Street darling but has been hit by policy missteps and global economic headwinds that hurt demand for Brazilian exports. To do so, she needs to move swiftly to staunch the bleeding in Brazil's fiscal accounts, which has added pressure to inflation and eroded investor confidence in Latin America's largest economy. Failure to clean up public finances could lead to a credit rating downgrade next year. Rousseff struck a conciliatory tone in her victory speech on Sunday night, pledging to work with political adversaries and business leaders alike to usher in a new era of economic growth. "We're going to give new impetus to all sectors of the economy, especially industry," she said. "I want a partnership with all sectors, both productive and financial, to take on the challenges ahead." She also extended an olive branch to investors worried about Brazil's deteriorating finances, saying she was committed to fiscal discipline and to keeping inflation in check. But the jury is out on whether Rousseff, a leftist who believes in state-led economic growth, is committed enough to fiscal discipline to take on politically difficult tax and pension reforms or cut spending on popular welfare programs. "Everything will hinge on fiscal policy, but there is not much scope to make a very drastic adjustment in the short term given the rigidity of the budget," said Otaviano Canuto, a World Bank official who some government officials say is a contender to be finance minister in Rousseff's new term. About 90 percent of Brazil's budget spending is mandated by law, meaning the government does not have much wiggle room to significantly cut expenditures without reducing public investment or social programs. "Any fiscal action should be accompanied by some medium- to long-term framework to reinforce confidence," added Canuto, who declined to comment on the finance ministry speculation. Brazil's budget deficit has widened sharply under Rousseff, who increased public spending and granted dozens of tax cuts to struggling industries to bolster the economy. Despite those measures, industrial output failed to pick up and her government was harshly criticized for using fiscal maneuvers to artificially increase public savings. The budget hole disguised by those "fiscal tricks," which include delaying payments from social programs and dipping into Brazil's sovereign wealth fund, could be as large as 2 percent of gross domestic product, BNP Paribas estimated in a recent research report. Rousseff's headaches won't be limited to the fiscal realm. After keeping fuel and electricity rates artificially low in recent years to help keep contain inflation, the president is under pressure to finally let those prices rise. An increase would be good news for state-run oil company Petrobras and power distributors, but it would also complicate Rousseff's anti-inflation efforts and could end up eroding her popularity with working-class Brazilians. A slump in commodity prices due to a slow global economy and higher U.S. interest rates could also weigh on efforts to boost the pace of economic growth. Investors are far from convinced that Rousseff will act decisively to tackle Brazil's many economic challenges head on in her second term, which starts on New Year's Day. Still, some hold out hope that the threat of a credit downgrade could force Rousseff to take a more market-friendly tack. Local stock and currency markets slumped whenever Rousseff advanced in opinion polls during the campaign, and could be headed for another selloff on Monday. "She didn't make any changes during her first term so I don't think she will change her ways in a second term," said Raul Velloso, a Brasilia-based economic consultant. "She has heavy ideological baggage and that won't change overnight." Although Rousseff has promised to replace widely-criticized Finance Minister Guido Mantega, markets remain skeptical that she will change course drastically and be less interventionist. Local businesses have long lobbied for bold reforms to cut Brazil's red tape, simplify its Byzantine tax code and overhaul a pension system that is piling pressure on public finances. Rousseff agrees that many of those reforms are needed, but so far has shown little desire to engage in the political give-and-take required to push initiatives through Congress. Even with a clear majority in Congress, Rousseff has struggled to pass legislation to unify minor taxes and slightly lower the pension burden. An even more fragmented Congress in a second term will further complicate any efforts to lower the staggering cost of doing business in Brazil. Brazilian companies on average spend 2,600 hours a year calculating what they owe in taxes, according to the World Bank's annual Doing Business study, which compares business practices around the world. That is almost 15 times the amount of time needed to do taxes in the United States. Mexico and Colombia, which have embarked on more ambitious reforms to open their economies, are growing at a rate more than two times that of Brazil. The Brazilian economy is expected to barely grow at all this year and expand just 1 percent in 2015 - a far cry from the 7.5 percent growth rate in 2010, just before Rousseff took office. "I don't think Brazil can afford to stay far away from the global trend for reforms" said Jorge Mariscal, chief investment officer for emerging markets at UBS Wealth Management, which oversees about $1 trillion in investments. "It no longer has external demand to drive its economy." (Editing by Todd Benson and Kieran Murray) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersU.S. Trade Representative Froman speaks at a press conference during the Trans Pacific Partnership meeting of trade representatives in SydneyBy Matt Siegel SYDNEY (Reuters) - Negotiations for an ambitious trade pact among Pacific countries made significant progress over the weekend but there is still a gap between Japan and the United States over market access and other hurdles, trade representatives said on Monday. The 12-nation Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) is central to President Barack Obama's policy of expanding the U.S. presence in Asia and the president has expressed hopes of concluding a deal by the end of the year. But while all sides hailed the progress made during the latest round of talks, no breakthrough was forthcoming on the thorniest questions. "There is no prospect for an agreement on market access (between Japan and the United States) at the moment," Japanese Economics Minister Akira Amari told a news conference in Sydney. "I expect we will reach results that satisfy both (countries)," he said, adding they would hold further talks. An agreement between Tokyo and Washington is crucial to securing the broader pact as other partners are reluctant to commit until they see how those two resolve their differences, particularly over access to each other's markets in sectors such as agriculture and automobiles. Australian Trade Minister Andrew Robb, who hosted the meeting, said the shape of an "ambitious, comprehensive, high-standard and balanced deal" was forming. "There is a real sense that we are within reach of the finish line and the prize does look very attractive," Robb said, describing the negotiations as at the "compromise stage". "We are seeing a preparedness to make some of the difficult decisions. This includes some of the key issues that we've been circling for a long time in the whole IP (intellectual property) area and market access and state-owned enterprises and other areas." The United States insists that Japan should lower barriers to agricultural imports, but Japan wants to protect sensitive products, including pork, beef, dairy and sugar. U.S. Trade Representative Michael Froman said that by definition the issues left at the end of any negotiation are those that are the most difficult to solve. "We certainly have outstanding issues with Japan on market access - on agriculture, on autos and we are not done yet," he told Reuters. "And while we are making progress, we are not at a satisfactory resolution yet and that's why the work is going to continue."  ANTI-TRADE AGENDA? Other major outstanding issues include intellectual property rights, particularly on products such as pharmaceuticals, environmental protection and country-specific issues around state-owned enterprises. Opposition over those issues was visible in Australia, with anti-TPP protesters gathering on Saturday outside the hotel in Sydney where the negotiations were taking place. Concerns that the agreement would help to drive up pharmaceutical prices must be taken as seriously as any potential trade benefits, Australian Medical Association President Brian Owler said on Sunday. "I think it's very important that the interests of the Australian government but also of patients and individual consumers in Australia are protected through trade agreements," he told the Australian Broadcasting Corporation. But Robb dismissed those concerns and similar worries that provisions for investor-state dispute settlement, or ISDS, in the agreement could see Australian laws such as its tobacco packaging legislation overturned by global business giants. "The fact is that for 30 years now Australia has progressively engaged with now 28 countries with investment agreements which include an ISDS ... and the sun is still coming up every morning," Robb told reporters. "I think a lot of the statements that have certainly been made in Australia amount to deliberate scaremongering - not all of them, but a lot of them amount to deliberate scaremongering by those who have fundamentally an anti-trade agenda."  (Additional reporting by Kaori Kaneko in Tokyo; Editing by Chris Gallagher, Kim Coghill and Alan Raybould) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Nacho DoceSupporters of Brazil's President and Workers' Party presidential candidate Dilma Rousseff, react to the first results of the Brazil general elections.Good morning! Here's what you need to know for Monday. 1. Dilma Rousseff narrowly beat her rival Aécio Neves for another term as Brazil's president.  2. Investors have not taken the re-election news well.  3. Twenty-five banks failed the European Central Bank's stress test because of capital shortfalls. 4. Nine of those banks were in Italy. 5. Pro-Western parties are expected to dominate Ukraine's parliamentary elections in a show of support for new leader Petro Poroshenko. 6. Canadian authorities say Michael Zehaf-Bibeau, the gunman who killed a solider in Ottawa before opening fire in the Parliament building, made a video recording of himself before the attack.  7. South Africa soccer captain and goalkeeper Senzo Meyiwa was shot dead Sunday night by intruders, police say. 8. After 10 years, US and British forces officially ended military operations in the the Afghan province of Helmand, allowing Afghan's army to take control of two camps.  9. Thousands of Hungarians protested in Budapest on Sunday over a proposed Internet tax on data transfers. 10. Criticism of the US government's response to Ebola has reached new heights after Kaci Hickox, a 33-year-old nurse who treated Ebola patients in Sierra Leone, expressed anger after being subjected to a state-imposed quarantine at New Jersey's Newark Airport even though she did not show symptoms.  And finally ... In the wake of Tesco's massive profit scandal and lagging sales, new CEO Dave Lewis kicked off the company's turnaround by taking a crew of senior execs on an overnight trip to a remote cottage, where they were ordered to shop at a local Tesco and then prepare food from the purchased groceries. “It’s been a very frenetic time and I wanted to get to know the people and talk about where the business was and where it was heading,” Lewis told The Guardian.  FREE AppDownload
