Apple  (NASDAQ: AAPL  ) has recently made a habit of updating shareholders on its capital return plans every spring. As a result, it wasn't surprising to learn on Wednesday that it plans to add another $30 billion to its ongoing share buyback program. However, the company shocked most observers by announcing a 7-for-1 stock split at the same time. Stock splits have become increasingly uncommon recently. Apple hasn't split its stock since 2005, even though its stock price has soared more than tenfold in the interim. While the cost of splitting a stock is fairly small, it's not zero, and many investors believe that there's no advantage to having a lower quoted stock price. Nevertheless, some investors prefer to own lower-priced stocks for whatever reason. Apple's stock split seems to be part of a strategy to appeal more to individual investors. It also may represent an attempt to move Apple into the widely followed Dow Jones Industrial Average in the future. The official wordAccording to Apple's official FAQ, the stock split will take effect in June. As of June 9, shares will trade at the new split-adjusted price, which would be a little over $80 based on its stock price as of Thursday morning. Apple has explained its decision to split the stock very simply: "We want Apple stock to be more accessible to a larger number of investors." Theoretically, there's no reason why a stock split should do this. It doesn't matter if you own five shares of Apple stock at $560 or 35 shares of Apple stock at $80 -- you still own the same (minuscule) percentage of the entire company. However, many investors like to buy stocks in large round lots or just have a psychological aversion to any stock with a high price tag. If Apple wants to encourage more "average folks" to invest in its stock, it's better off catering to their psychological biases than trying to fight them. That's not allApple's stock split will also make the company a strong candidate for the popular Dow Jones Industrial Average, if and when it decides to drop one of its current components. The Dow is a price-weighted index, which means that high-priced stocks have a bigger impact on the index. A $500+ stock would unduly influence the index price, so it wouldn't be considered for inclusion. By contrast, Apple would fit right into the pack with an approximately $80 stock price. Joining the Dow doesn't have many tangible benefits, as index-tracking funds are more likely to follow the broader S&amp;P 500. However, inclusion in the Dow would be another signal to conservative/risk-averse investors that Apple isn't a risky tech growth company anymore. An even bigger sign that Apple is courting more conservative investors is its new dividend policy. As part of its capital return update, Apple increased its dividend by 8% and announced that it plans annual dividend increases going forward. This step is designed to make Apple more appealing to "income" investors. Foolish bottom lineFor many long-term investors, Apple's upcoming stock split will seem like a gimmick. In some ways, it is a gimmick! However, as an Apple shareholder, I don't really care because it's a gimmick that is likely to work. Some investors simply won't consider "high-priced" stocks, and since growth investors have clearly tired of Apple stock, widening the potential investor base can only help. Apple's potential inclusion in the Dow Jones index at some point in the future could further boost its Main Street appeal. Furthermore, its new official policy of annual dividend increases will make income investors happy. In the long run, Apple's earnings power will determine how well the stock performs. Based on the company's big earnings beat on Wednesday, things look good on this front. However, by making the stock itself more investor-friendly, Apple is providing some instant gratification. Most shareholders will appreciate that, too. Get rich from the next tech game-changerIn less than a decade, smartphones have gone from science fiction to a multi-trillion-dollar industry. But the NEXT new technology could make smartphones obsolete -- and smart investors are buying in right now. Watch The Motley Fool's latest video to learn all about this unique money-making opportunity today. Just click here to get started now. Adam Levine-Weinberg owns shares of Apple and is long January 2015 $390 calls on Apple. The Motley Fool recommends and owns shares of Apple. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days. We Fools may not all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has adisclosure policy. FREE AppDownload
Richard Branson is famous for his publicity stunts to promote the launch of a business or a project. He has scaled buildings, flown over the ocean with a hot air balloon, and dressed in drag, among other unusual activities. But a famous collection of photos by photographer Stephane Gautronneau showing the billionaire kitesurfing with a naked model (Denni Parkinson) on his back in 2009 was not a part of a media campaign. Watch Branson recount how the photoshoot came about, and what his wife did upon seeing it. Produced by Justin Gmoser; Additional camera by Daniel Goodman. Originally published in October 2013. Follow BI Video: On YouTube
    Internet security is paramount today. Your information (and sometimes even your identity) is only as safe as your password is strong. So here's a great way to come up with a password that is both secure and easy to remember. Produced by Daniel Goodman. Originally published in March 2013. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Petar Kujundzic FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Advisors Ignoring Federal Employees Are Missing The Boat (The Wall Street Journal)  Many advisors won't consider federal employees as clients because they think they don't have enough money, but Gerald Cannizzaro, a financial planner with Ticknor Atherton &amp; Associates, disagrees. In a new WSJ column, he argues that federal employees have a guaranteed pension, health-care plan, and survivor benefits, and a low risk of losing their job. "It's not uncommon to see longtime federal employees with pensions between $60,000 and $110,000, and [Thrift Savings Plan] TSP plans that contain between $350,000 and $500,000," Cannizzaro writes.  "A smart adviser can save a retiring federal employee up to 25% by hunting for a better long-term care plan than the one offered by the Office of Personnel Management, and you can save them up to 33% on life insurance," he writes. "That's a big incentive for a client to come in and work with you. Additionally, the survivor benefit is a boon to advisers. Advisers know the spouse has this money that they will get. It allows advisers to invest those assets for a longer term." Judge Dismisses Gender Bias Suit Against Merrill Lynch (Investment News)  New York Supreme Court Judge, Cynthia S. Kern, dismissed a gender bias complaint brought against Bank of America Merrill Lynch by three former employees, reports Mason Braswell at Investment News. The suit filed by Sara Hunter Hudson, Julia Kuo, and Catherine Wharton, former trainees at Bank of America, alleged that they were terminated out of bias in 2009. But the judge argued that it was tied to the firm's decision to cut trainee headcount following the market turmoil. Investors On The Hunt For Yield Should Be Wary Of These Two Strategies (BlackRock Blog) Low yields have kept investors on the hunt for income and yield. And this hunt is expected to continue this year and into 2015, writes BlackRock's Russ Koesterich. This is because short-term interest rates in the U.S. are likely to "remain anchored at zero throughout 2014." And there are cyclical ad secular factors like "the tail end of the consumer deleveraging, lower supply of debt, a strong institutional need for high quality bonds, and demographic trends," that will continue to keep long-term rates low.  "In this environment, many investors are still determined to wait out the bond market, believing that rates will eventually normalize and provide investors with a risk-free 5% yield, though this isn’t likely to happen anytime soon," writes Koesterich. "At the same time, others are overreaching for yield by entering ever more speculative fixed income asset classes, such as Greek bonds and leveraged loans, where the risks may not be worth the potential returns." But he argues that investors should be cautious about both strategies. We Can Be More Optimistic On Europe But There's Still Risk That Things Could Flip Back To Where We Were Before (Vanguard)  European economies are starting to recover and it's worth considering if increased optimism on these economies is warranted. Peter Westaway, chief  European economist at Vanguard thinks it is because worries about a euro break up are gone. That doesn't, however, mean Europe is problem-free. While growth is in "positive territory," even in peripheral economies the level of activity is not back to levels seen before the crisis, so there is "an output gap." While deficits are shrinking, overall debt to GDP is still high. While some structural reforms have been pushed through "we’re still a long way from turning Europe into the sort of well-functioning economy it needs to be." The banking system meanwhile is "still a huge area of concern." While Westaway thinks we're on the path to recovery he thinks there's "still risk that things could sort of flip back to where we were before." We're Not In The Sell In May Camp Yet (FBN Securities) "Sell in May and go away" is an age-old saying on Wall Street. "The majority of the time the market was unimpressive over those summer months," FBN Securities' J.C. O'Hara said in a note to clients. "The majority of the market's returns were housed in the first model that was long the months into May and the months after September. … As we approach May we are not in the SELL camp yet, but rather acknowledge the fact that a volatile, sideways-moving market is what history implies."FBN Securities   FREE AppDownload
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The United States and the European Union are expected to impose fresh sanctions on Russian individuals on Monday in response to Moscow's alleged efforts to destabilize eastern Ukraine, sources familiar with the matter said. The sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the EU was expected to name 15 previously unidentified individuals to be sanctioned and would focus on those whom it believes are responsible for the unrest in Ukraine. The United States was expected to sanction individuals and entities, they said, with the U.S. list of individuals expected to include "cronies" of Russian President Vladimir Putin. The sources said the one thing that might prevent the EU and the United States from moving ahead with the sanctions on Monday would be a sudden reversal of what they say is Russian-sponsored separatist movements in eastern Ukraine. "There will be some overlap, but it won't be huge overlap," said one of the sources familiar with the plans, saying some EU nations remain concerned about sanctioning associates of the Russian leader. "You will find a European list much more connected to actions on the ground, and an American list more focused on cronies and entities," the source added. Moscow denies allegations it is directing the separatists, who have taken control of large parts of eastern Ukraine over the past three weeks. But the White House said U.S. President Barack Obama and European allies agreed on Friday that Russia had escalated tension in the region, where the rebels have declared an independent "People's Republic of Donetsk". (Reporting By Arshad Mohammed; Editing by Sandra Maler) FREE AppDownload
APPandora had a rough day of trading, closing down 16%. Even though Pandora reported better than expected earnings on Thursday, its stock tanked today. Last quarter, Pandora saw revenues of $194.3 million, well ahead of the $177.7 million analysts expected. Pandora also reported a loss of $0.13 per share, which is a penny better than analysts expected. But the stock is down because of Pandora's disappointing guidance for Q2. Its guidance ranged from break-even to a profit of $0.03 per share on revenue $213 million to $218 million. But analysts were expecting a profit of $0.05 a share on revenue of $219 million. Despite how investors reacted, Pandora is still growing. In Q1, listening hours grew 12% year-over-year to 4.8 billion. Pandora's number of active listeners also grew 8% to 75.3 million people. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsIt was a particularly rough day for the high-priced momentum stocks. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
vimeo/Ruslan FedotowThis is very interesting. Steven Englander, a currency analyst at Citi, notes an unusual amount of consensus going into next week's jobs report: The Bloomberg NFP consensus now incorporates about 50 forecasts. What is striking is: 1) how tight the consensus is – of 50 forecasts, 43 are in a 190k-230k range. The standard deviation of 17k for the 50 forecasts is the lowest of the last 10years (matched only once each in 2007 and 2008) 2) skew to the right – the median forecast is 210k – there is only one forecast more than 20k below 210k the median and six forecasts above 230k. The forecast below is 25k below the median, the six forecasts above 230k average 37k higher. He goes on to note that this coincides with historically low volatility in markets, so overall there's a vibe of everyone's chill on everything, both in terms of markets and economic forecasts,. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Hermann J. KnippertzCoffee prices are up about 90% year-to-date. A drought in Brazil and leaf rust in parts of Central America have helped push prices higher.  And now El Niño is coming.  El Niño is a weather phenomenon that tends to bring dry weather to Asia and Australia, and a lot wetter conditions to South America.  "If El Niño leads to lower output from Indonesia and Vietnam (25% of global coffee production) as seems likely, prices may stay high for longer," writes Caroline Bain at Capital Economics. That being said El Niño is a "transient event," and prices should weaken as weather conditions normalize. Meanwhile, inventory of sugar and rice are at "comfortable levels," and dry weather in Southeast Asia and Australia isn't expected to see much of an impact on those commodities, according to Bain. FREE AppDownload
Shaving your head is a great style choice for men, and you don't have to be intimidated when you go under the razor. Business Insider's entertainment reporter, Frank Pallotta, was in need of a fresh cut, so we stopped by Fellow Barber in SoHo. Clark Walker showed us the proper way for a head shave whether at home or with a barber. Be sure to check out Fellow Barber's other New York locations in the West Village and Williamsburg, as well as their San Francisco shop.  Produced by Sam Rega. Additional camera by Graham Flanagan. Follow BI Video: On Twitter
The Dow is down 152 points (0.9%). The S&amp;P is down 16 points (0.8%). The Nasdaq is down 74 points (1.7%). Shares of Amazon.com are weighing on the tech-heavy Nasdaq. On Thursday afternoon, the company announced quarterly financial results that were largely in line with expectations. "One factor could be that the company's sales growth fell to 23% in Q1, down from 25% in Q4 and 29% in Q3," noted BI's Jillian D'Onofrio. Amazon is down 9.7%. Other big losers in the Nasdaq include Netflix, Expedia, and Priceline. Share of Ford are down 3.2% after the company announced disappointing earnings. Earlier today, we learned that the Markit U.S. services PMI slipped to 54.2 in April from 55.3 in March. Economists estimates the headline would climb to 55.5. "In the services sector, there are worrying signs for future momentum," said Markit's Chris Williamson. "Levels of outstanding business fell at the fastest rate since last August, and firms’ optimism about the year ahead also waned." The University of Michigan's consumer confidence index jumped to 84.1 in April from 80.0 in March. This was the highest reading since July 2013. "While near term expectations have improved substantially, longer term expectations for personal finances as well as the overall economy have not improved as much,"said survey director Richard Curtin via Reuters.   FREE AppDownload
The fifth annual IGNITION: Future of Digital conference is Dec. 1-3 in New York City. Don't miss your chance to hear from industry leaders such as Amazon's Jeff Bezos, Adobe's Ann Lewnes, and Accel Partner's Jim Breyer with a special early-bird ticket price that expires next week. Register here before next week and save $1,000. IGNITION speakers include: We'll explore all the hot topics in digital today, including: The agenda includes high-level interviews and discussions, an hourly break to network and caffeinate, extended lunch and breakfast, sponsored workshops, and cocktail receptions. Register now, save a grand. See you in December!   P.S. If you're interested in sponsorship opportunities at IGNITION, contact ignition@businessinsider.com. Follow @BI_Events on Twitter for IGNITION updates. FREE AppDownload
YoutubeLiz Wahl, the anchor who dramatically quit Kremlin-backed television network Russia Today during a live broadcast last month resurfaced on Bloomberg TV Thursday in a segment advising viewers "how to quit like I did." "I gained some notoriety after I resigned very publicly from my last employer," Wahl began. "If you witness wrongdoing and if you're a part of the problem, that's when I think you can stand up and say, 'This is it, I cannot be part of this. I need to resign and perhaps I need to speak up.'" RT has faced strong criticism of its coverage of the ongoing crisis in Ukraine. The network has disputed characterizations it produces propaganda for the regime of Russian President Vladimir Putin.  On Bloomberg TV, Wahl went on to say she had "no regrets" about leaving RT after declaring, "I cannot be part of a network funded by the Russian government that whitewashes the actions of Putin." "I'm proud of what I said and what I did. I wouldn't recommend maybe causing that much of a stir in all situations," said Wahl. "In most normal circumstances, if you have a better opportunity, you quit, you give your two weeks, you do it like that. Quitting is almost like a breakup. I think sometimes it's easier than others. Sometimes it's more civil than others, sometimes it's a very passionate breakup." Soon after Wahl left RT, she was criticized by for her alleged connections to a "cadre of neoconservatives" who some said helped stage her dramatic departure.  After Wahl's high-profile exit from the network, cable news producers who spoke to Business Insider were divided about whether her headline-grabbing resignation would lead to new job prospects. Despite her appearance on Bloomberg TV, it seems Wahl's cable career has not been resurrected yet. Bloomberg TV said she "is still unemployed but has several job leads." Watch Wahl's Bloomberg TV segment below.    FREE AppDownload
ANNPerhaps no Bitcoin story is more well known to the mainstream — and haunts Bitcoin evangelists more — than the rise and fall of Mt. Gox. For about two years, Gox was the world's largest bitcoin exchange. Headquartered in Tokyo, the company at its height claimed it was processing $3 billion-worth of bitcoin, and was valued by some at $1 billion dollars. But cracks began forming in the Gox edifice just as bitcoin demand began to surge. As early as Spring 2013, customers had begun complaining about delays in receiving transfers and difficulties removing their fiat currency from their exchange's wallets. A crackdown on Gox's U.S. bank accounts that August further ratcheted up uncertainty about the fate of the exchange. Finally, this February, the firm announced almost half a billion dollars' worth of bitcoins had gone missing. Today, it began formal bankruptcy proceedings. No one is still quite sure what happened to the missing bitcoins — or how many are truly gone. But for Daniel Mross, a software developer, Bitcoin enthusiast, and the protagonist of the new documentary "The Rise and Rise of Bitcoin," which premiered Wednesday at the Tribeca Film Festival, Mt. Gox's downfall was more tragic than malicious. And he put into perspective how much more dominant the exchange could have been.  "I think Mt. Gox had the potential of being a Google of Bitcoin, and to squander that is just really a shame," Mross, who also co-wrote the film, told BI in an interview Thursday. "It was the one," he added. The main problem, Mross said, was that CEO Mark Karpeles, 28, believed he was capable of taking on Mt. Gox's workload by himself. Karpeles took over the firm in 2011, and thanks to its seemingly sophisticated software and access — however short-lived — to American financial services, Gox's popularity grew.  But Gox's payrolls failed to grow with it. "He was the CEO, the CFO, he was the lead developer — there were only two other programmers at Mt. Gox, and they were only doing front-end stuff — so he wrote all the software, installed all the servers, did all the infrastructure," Mross said. "Just way too much. Way in over his head." The filmmakers were given a tour of Mt. Gox's sterile, cubicle-less and seemingly windowless office, though Karpeles and chief marketing officer and fellow Frenchman Gonzague Gay-Bouchery come off as mostly upbeat, revealing no sign of the immense pressure their exchange is under.  That comes a bit later, when Karpeles gives a brief tour of his sparsely furnished apartment in downtown Tokyo, and tries and fails to play a one-handed version of "Fur Elise" on his electric keyboard. "When we did talk to him, when we did finally get him on his own, then he opened up," Mross said. "He was actually really friendly in a quiet kind of way. He seemed kind of a loner, had his personal life that he valued." "Definitely a quirky guy, a little bit off — in a good way, almost an endearing way," Nicholas Mross, Dan's brother and the film's director added. Daniel said Karpeles kept them waiting for hours at a time, causing their footage to be shot at night and rendering much of it unusable.  "That was definitely kind of an indicator of the bigger picture, how he dealt with things — 'Oh, I'll get to that whenever I'm ready to,'" Mross said. Nicholas Mross said he tried to take a journalistic approach to Bitcoin's booms and busts, though it's mostly a celebration of the cryptocurrency and the culture that's grown up around it.  Still, he does not omit the ultimate fate of another key protagonist, Charlie Shrem, who ran a U.S. exchange called BitInstant. Last fall, Shrem was indicted on money laundering charges. In fact, the film's key strength is just how early it got in on the Bitcoin story: There's a scene in which Shrem, only a few months after BitInstant's launch, complains of how much he's had to spend on lawyers. "The first thought honestly was,  'This is terrible,' — we felt bad for the guy. But from a filmmaking perspective there's the idea of our footage now becomes historic — this thing happened that we captured at a time that can't be recreated." FREE AppDownload
The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed on Thursday absolutely unchanged for the day. The closing index value on Wednesday was 16,501.65, and the closing value on Thursday was also 16,501.65. This seems very weird. One would expect at least a little change in the markets. So, we were curious to see how weird it was. Using data from the St. Louis Fed, we looked at the Dow's daily closing prices on every trading day since May 26, 1896, the first day the Dow was calculated. And we found 197 other days when the markets were open and the day-over-day change was recorded as a 0.00. Given that we are looking at 32,138 trading days worth of data, 198 of which (including yesterday) had no change, at a glance, an estimate of the probability of getting a day with zero change is 198 ÷ 32,138, or about 0.6%. A day with a total day over day change of 0.00 hasn't happened in a while — the last such day was Monday, December 24, 2001, when the DJIA closed at 10,035.34, the same as the previous trading day of Friday, December 21, 2001. It's worth noting that the NYSE switched over to trading stocks with decimal prices, rather than prices denominated in fractions of a dollar. This may have some effect on why days with no change have become very rare since. This drought of no change days is historically weirder than having a day with no change. We made a chart showing all of the days on which the DJIA closed at the same value, to two decimal places, as it had closed the day before. The horizontal blue lines show those days. Note the big band of white in recent years, as opposed to getting a zero change day at least occasionally before then: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from St. Louis Fed   FREE AppDownload
Stop putting your milk in your refrigerator door and stop putting your bread on top of the fridge. It turns out that seemingly harmless mistakes such as these can make a big difference in the freshness and safety of your food and drink. Watch and learn the right way to organize your refrigerator. Produced by Justin Gmoser. Follow BI Video: On Facebook    
Wikimedia CommonsA hedge fund once impounded this Argentine naval vessel because the country owed the fund billions — nothing to see there.Back in 1949 when the first hedge fund, A.W. Jones, was formed, it was just about going long some stocks, and short other stocks. In the last sixty-plus years, though, that strategy has become just one of a seemingly inexhaustible number of strategies funds use to turn their cash into more cash. Those strategies range from buying water rights in Australia to tracking Taiwanese semiconductor sales as a leading indicator of how the tech market will do. In hedge-fund land, this is all just part of the game. And the game gets weird. There's an interesting conversation going on on Quora about the strangest strategies hedge funds use to make money. If you're unfamiliar with the space, and want to go down the rabbit hole, you should definitely check it out. For those within the industry, it's just a gentle reminder that using satellite photos to get a sense of how goods are flowing in and out of businesses: normal. Investing in countries whose debt will default so you can collect later — and maybe impounding that country's naval vessel in the meantime — like billionaire Paul Singer's Elliot Management has done: normal. Hiring  psychologists and linguists to analyze a Central Banker's speeches: normal. After a significant stay in hedge-fund land, nothing shocks anymore. Click here for the full Quora conversation »   FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe Microsoft logo is seen at their offices in Bucharest(Reuters) - Online media group AOL Inc said on Friday it would offer its video content on Microsoft Corp's platforms, starting this summer. Microsoft's MSN and Bing apps for Windows will get content from AOL's HuffPost Live, TechCrunch and Moviefone as well as its partner sites, including ESPN, TMZ, and Martha Stewart. The content will include AOL's library of nearly 900,000 videos, all 15 AOL On channels and original series expected to launch next week, the company said. Technology powerhouses like Microsoft and AOL are flexing their muscles as storytellers, parading TV network-style shows before advertisers at an annual digital content showcase in New York next week. (Reporting by Abhirup Roy in Bangalore; Editing by Savio D'Souza) FREE AppDownload
YouTube/Thirty-One GiftsThis year's winning company, Thirty-One Gifts. Think it's still a man's world? These women would beg to differ. The Women Presidents' Organization (WPO), a nonprofit membership group for women presidents of multimillion-dollar companies, today releases its seventh annual list of the 50 fastest-growing women-led companies. This year marks the first time it has included applicants from outside the United States. "We saw production soaring, with an average revenue growth of 203% from 2009 to 2013," says Marsha Firestone, Ph.D., president and founder of the WPO. "Not only is the financial growth of these companies impressive, it shows that women entrepreneurs are making inroads in non-traditional businesses, such as information technology, transportation, and engineering." The incredible growth of these companies is particularly impressive given the current business environment. Privately held U.S. companies ended last year with an average annual sales growth of 5.4%, the slowest growth rate since 2009, according to the WPO. To qualify for the ranking, businesses had to be privately held, woman-owned or led, with annual revenue of at least $500,000. The ranking was determined by both percentage growth and absolute growth over the four-year period from 2009 to 2013. This year, the average company on the list has revenue of $99 million and employs 657 people. And, proving it's never too late to launch the next big thing, 90% of the women are founders, and the average age is 48. FREE AppDownload
Russia Raises Main Rate as Ukraine Crisis Weighs on Ruble - Bloomberg Kerry Warns Putin on Ukraine as Russia Opens Troop Drills - Bloomberg Ukraine crisis escalates: What this means for investors – CNBC S&amp;P Slashes Russia To One Notch Above Junk – Business Insider Oh and at time like this we’ll need to check in at Zerohedge’s doom bunker: Ukraine Accuses Russia Of Wanting To Start World War III While I have no idea whether eastern Europe is on the brink of war, and I certainly hope it is not, it does make sense to position for heightened tensions as it does not appear there will be a diplomatic solution soon. On two separate occasions (first on March 6th: New Trade $EWG: Knocked Worst and then again on April 9th: New Trade – $EWG: Ukraine on Germany’s Parade) in the last 6 weeks, we put on a short EWG position in anticipation of Russian headline risk. We think short German equities is a good way to express a near term bearish view on the region, as Germany is one of Russia’s largest trading partners and seems to be the index most likely to trade in sympathy with Russian equity weakness. A quick look at the relative performance of Germany’s DAX, now down 2.1% from yesterday’s highs shows the correlation to Russia’s Micex equity index which is down 3.1% since yesterday’s open, while the FTSE 100 in the UK is only down 50 bps, and France’s CAC 40 down only 80 bps in that same time period. Yesterday, it appeared that another trader agreed with the thesis, and agrees that the price of short dated options in EWG (the iShares MSCI Germany etf) are cheap and bought 2500 of the May 31 puts for .45 and 5,000 of the May 30 puts for 20 cents when the etf was trading around $31.28.  We like this positioning given the cheap volatility.  Not necessarily as an outright bearish bet on the region, but merely that tensions will continue to run hot, the markets will likely anticipate this ahead of time, and we will close our position prior to what we hope will be some sort of diplomatic band aid. On a lighter note, I faced a bit of resistance to writing this post this morning, but not from a market participant that had a different view, but from Tom, my cat:  This article originally appeared at Risk Reversal .  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike StoneMichigan fans cheer before the start of the NCAA football game between the University of Alabama and the University of Michigan at the Cowboys Stadium in Arlington, Texas September 1, 2012. The University of Michigan consumer confidence index jumped to 84.1 in April from 80.0 in March. This was the highest reading since July 2013. This was better than the 83.0 expected by economists and the 82.6 preliminary reading. The current economic conditions index climbed to 98.7, the highest level since July 2007. The consumer expectations index climbed to 74.7  from 70.0 a month ago. "While near term expectations have improved substantially, longer term expectations for personal finances as well as the overall economy have not improved as much,"said survey director Richard Curtin via Reuters. "We do not believe that a slower-than-expected recovery in the expectations component will weigh on economic activity, however, and we expect that the index of current conditions will continue to move higher as housing and labor markets improve," said Barclays' Cooper Howes. Barclays FREE AppDownload
MarkitMarkit's preliminary survey of the U.S. services companies indicates that the sector decelerated a bit. The headline PMI slipped to 54.2 in April from 55.3 in March. Economists estimates the headline would climb to 55.5. Any reading above 50 signals growth. Here are the key points from the report: "With the exceptions of the government shutdown last October and the weather-related disruptions in February, the rate of economic growth signalled by the flash services and manufacturing PMIs in April was the weakest since May of last year," said Markit's Chris Williamson. ”The surveys are running at a level broadly consistent with annualised GDP growth of 2.0%, while the employment index from the two surveys points to non-farm payroll growth sliding to around 100,000 per month. “In the services sector, there are worrying signs for future momentum. Levels of outstanding business fell at the fastest rate since last August, and firms’ optimism about the year ahead also waned. “These data challenge the view among many, including some key policymakers, that the recent deterioration in some of the economic data has been purely a symptom of the adverse weather at the start of the year.” Markit FREE AppDownload
Secret Millionaire ScreengrabGurbaksh "G" Chahal, the millionaire founder, CEO, and chairman of online ad network RadiumOne, who was accused of hitting his girlfriend 117 times in August 2013.Back in August, Gurbaksh "G" Chahal, the millionaire founder, CEO, and chairman of online ad network RadiumOne, was allegedly caught on tape viciously beating his girlfriend for half an hour, hitting her 117 times in his San Francisco penthouse. After his arrest, prosecutors charged him with 45 felony counts. But once their case began to unravel partly on a technicality—first the girlfriend chose not to cooperate, then a judge tossed the incriminating home security system footage from evidence, citing a Fourth Amendment violation—the district attorney’s office offered Chahal an easy deal. Last week, he pleaded guilty to a pair of misdemeanors—one count of domestic violence battery and one count of battery, according to the San Francisco Business Journal. The marketing mogul was sentenced to three years probation, 25 hours of community service, a 52-week domestic-violence training program, and no jail. In the meantime, Chahal’s company appears to be doing splendidly. RadiumOne is planning a $100 million IPO. It signed a partnership with Condé Nast. Because Chahal avoided any felony convictions, he will be allowed to remain on RadiumOne's board. He’s also scheduled to appear as a featured speaker at a fancy marketing conference. As Valleywag’s Nitasha Tiku noted yesterday, these “promising career developments occurred well after Chahal's arrest in August.”  This leads to an obvious question: Is it acceptable to invest in, or do business with, a company run by a man who has admitted beating his girlfriend? I think there’s an equally obvious answer: No, it is not. I don’t want to dwell too long on the specifics of Chahal’s case, because I’ve only read about it through news reports, and haven’t personally pored over the court filings. But at the very least he has now admitted to committing an act of domestic violence. RadiumOne has not responded to my request for comment. But he is still listed on its website as founder and chair. I cannot imagine how Condé Nast, which makes much of its money off of women’s magazines, could justify partnering with RadiumOne if he remains there. And while I obviously can’t speak for Chahal’s female employees, I suspect not all of them are perfectly comfortable working for the man. But just as a general principal, I don’t know how anybody can justify supporting a company that is run by someone with a recent history of domestic violence. At least not if you believe that where you spend money, or where you invest capital, is any kind of statement about values. Some people make horrible mistakes. Some people have momentary psychotic breaks. Over time, maybe it’s possible to atone for them. But as a rule, men with a fresh track record of beating women shouldn’t be managing them. Female employees shouldn't have to answer to a superior with a threatening history of misogynistic violence. That’s not to say such men don’t deserve a chance to do something else with their professional lives. But they absolutely 100 percent shouldn’t be the boss of a corporation. Certainly, as one astute Twitter user pointed out, if you believe Brendan Eich deserved to get the boot from Mozilla because he opposed same-sex marriage, you ought to be appalled by a case like Chahal’s. And if you bothered by the Eich case, domestic abuse can at least offer a clear example of what should count as a fireable offense. Arguably bigoted personal beliefs might be one thing. Reprehensible personal behavior is another. If what I’m saying sounds like common sense, it isn’t always treated that way in corporate America. One of the more famous examples involved former HBO CEO Chris Albrecht, who was fired in 2007 after being arrested and charged with attacking his girlfriend in a parking lot. It was quickly revealed that in 1991, HBO had paid at least $400,000 to settle allegations that he had choked a female subordinate. Then a Deadline Hollywood editor later reported that at the network had quietly covered up past incidents with women at the company. I like to think we’ve come a long way from the time when a corporation would simply hush up that sort of thing. But in cases where there’s not much the company can do—say, a tech startup with a charismatic CEO-founder—it’s incumbent on investors and customers to take their money elsewhere. It’s the only decent thing to do. FREE AppDownload
Amazon reported its first-quarter earnings yesterday, and despite hitting earnings-per-share estimates and achieving a tiny revenue beat, stock was down 9.88% when markets closed today.  One factor could be that the company's sales growth fell to 23% in Q1, down from 25% in Q4 and 29% in Q3. That's not a big decrease, but investors wanted that number to get a boost this quarter.  Amazon is largely judged by its ability to grow revenue since it doesn't have much in the way of profits.  Investors are patient and don't mind the lack of profits, because they think Amazon is investing to grow the business. But when sales growth is decelerating it's worrisome. It suggests the investment isn't working out as well as they want.  Operating income guidance of a loss of $455 to a loss of $55 million was also well below the street at $200 million.  Overall, investors saw Amazon's quarterly results and were neither overly impressed (though both Amazon Web Services and International business outperformed) nor overly disappointed.  Unfortunately for Amazon, having nothing to be impressed about could be the reason for the stock drop, as investors would have preferred to see more growth. Amazon has always been a long-term-focused company, however. With big recent investments in video content and rumors of an in-house delivery service in the works and Prime memberships continuing to increase, the company might start seeing a bigger pay-off soon.  Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through his personal investment company Bezos Expeditions. FREE AppDownload
In honor of today's downgrade of Russia's credit rating by S&amp;P, here's one slide from Morgan Stanley about how screwed the economy is. Morgan Stanley FREE AppDownload
Flickr/bibliconeThe idea that there is a “land grab” taking place in developing nations began with the publication of a report, Seized!, by the NGO Grain. This rang an alarm bell about large-scale land acquisitions – particularly by a number of Asian countries and Gulf States, which are acquiring millions of hectares of fertile agricultural land, predominantly in Africa. Corporations and states including the US, European nations, and the rising “BRIC” economies of Brazil, Russia, India and China are all involved in this voracious purchasing of land. And despite the huge differences in the countries and localities where the land is purchased, the outcome is surprisingly similar: millions of hectares of farmland, as well as forests and peatlands, have been rapidly converted into huge mono-cropped plantations of soy, oil palm, and other cash crops. This process particularly hits pastoralists, smallholders and vulnerable landless groups. What is striking is that in most cases land grabbing takes place with full support of governments which are happy to swap land for foreign direct investment. As a rule, insufficient consideration is given to the livelihoods, rights and needs of local people. Land sold to investors is often taken away from locals who are not even informed, and are often forcefully removed. To the extent that investments generate benefits such as employment, those from the land are usually bypassed in favour of workers from elsewhere. The global land grab is a phenomenon against which those whose land is being grabbed seem defenceless. It is an area in which multilateral organisations, such as the World Bank, as well as civil-society organisations and NGOs have become increasingly vocal, and which has attracted greater academic interest. Most early research focused on explaining the land grab narrative in terms of hectares and numbers of people affected, in an effort to uncover global trends and examine case studies. In our research, we have adopted instead an in-depth and comparative approach. By examining Africa, Latin America and Asia country by country, a number of interesting themes emerge: urban land grabbing in Kenya, Ethiopia’s new agricultural investment policy, genetically modified soy cultivation in Argentina, residential tourism in Costa Rica, water grabbing in Peru and Ecuador, new land conversions in Vietnam, and the Gulf States' investments in Indonesia and the Philippines. There are differences and similarities, local variations and more general trends. But it is clear that this global land grab really exists, and that it’s impact cannot be expressed in hectares and statistics alone. What is striking is that it has not been merely the demand for food or biofuels that has led to this land rush. In fact, a whole set of earlier policies has paved the way. Large-scale land acquisition started to take place as a number of conditions simultaneously fell into place. Huge tracts of land, under-exploited due to poor agricultural policy or decades of neglect, was made available. Foreign state aid donors emphasised the need to attract foreign investment. Land laws were modernised to make buying, selling and leasing land easier in many countries. And in many cases, institutional weaknesses or outright corruption eased through deals. National governments were supposed to decentralise, stepping back in favour of local governments and opening up to market forces. However, local governments have often not been strong enough to deal with foreign investors, while in other cases they are merely extensions or appointees of the same political elites that run national governments, rather than genuinely representing local interests. The global land grab is not the consequence of ad hoc crises; it is the logical outcome from the policies and political environment laid down before it. So while what is happening today is to a large extent a historical continuation, it is also very different from the events of the past. In countries such as Argentina or Costa Rica, land acquisition and “foreignisation” has taken place for decades, if not centuries. For example, the major US fruit growers' acquisition of land throughout Central America during the early and mid-20th century. In Kenya, the current land grab echoes its clear precedent under colonisation by the British. Processes are rarely transparent – not in developing countries praised for “good governance”, and not even in cases of Western companies that boast of their “corporate social responsibility”. The global land grab has implications for transnational connections and power relations: it reshapes the geopolitical order, yet is equally a manifestation of a world order that has changed as economic power swings toward China, India, and developing economies. Much attention is paid to improving rules or regulations through land titling programmes, implementing the FAO voluntary guidelines, codes of conduct and other institutional solutions. However, the problem is often not so much regulations as the failure to implement them or a lack of practical control. As we have argued, a framework of accountability for large-scale land acquisitions must not only be limited to private companies, nor to governments or public bodies. To be effective it must be constructed as an integrated system of checks and balances that stretches from international trading regulations through national laws to local enactments, to ensure that all the main players of the game are playing under the same rules. Annelies Zoomers receives funding from NWO (Netherlands). Mayke Kaag does not work for, consult to, own shares in or receive funding from any company or organisation that would benefit from this article, and has no relevant affiliations. This article was originally published on The Conversation. Read the original article. FREE AppDownload
nosha via Compfight ccHONG KONG (Reuters) - For some Chinese investors, the first step to purchasing millions of dollars in property on the other side of the globe is a lot like ordering a new t-shirt online - search and click. Social media is the catalyst, connecting Chinese buyers and overseas agents. At least one prospective buyer entrusted an agent with $100 million to invest in residential housing. Others bought houses in Houston or plots of land in Colorado, sight unseen, according to real estate agents. In the last six month of 2013, $1.1 billion worth of potential transactions were referred to international agents by Juwai.com, the largest real estate portal that targets Chinese buyers looking abroad. It was unclear how many deals were actually completed. As property prices cool in Hong Kong and Singapore, which have long been magnets for Chinese investment, more money is flowing to real estate markets such as New York, London and Sydney. Chinese have overtaken Russians for the first time as the biggest buyers of apartments in Manhattan, according to real estate brokers. Chinese buyers invested $13.5 billion in overseas property last year, compared with $6.3 billion a year earlier, according to real estate consultancy Savills. China's social media platforms such as QQ, WeChat and Weibo are hugely popular among younger property buyers, many of them 20-something scions of China's wealthy families. They are driving a new phase of Chinese outbound property investment that is expected to grow 20 percent per year in the coming decade. "Social media is immediate and familiar to the buyers, it's a way to connect people without formality and without introduction. And then you have a little connection," said Joel Goodrich, a San Francisco-based agent who specializes in luxury real estate. He and his co-worker in New York were referred a Chinese businessman by Juwai.com at the end of last year. The client gave them a budget of $100 million to invest in real estate in New York. They have been communicating over QQ Chat, a popular instant messenger in China run by Tencent, and the buyer has made plans to visit the U.S. city to check out his options. Juwai.com has also referred clients with budgets of $200 million and A$320 million ($298.93 million) to real estate agents overseas, according to Andrew Taylor, the property website's Hong Kong-based co-chief executive officer. China tightly controls foreign currency transactions. Individuals can exchange Chinese yuan for a maximum of $50,000 a year. Chinese companies, however, can buy more U.S. dollars than otherwise allowed by fake invoicing. Many wealthy Chinese have made use of corporate and legal entities to transfer large sums overseas. Juwai.com's Taylor said his portal has worked with customers as young as a 20-year-old student who was studying in the United States and looking to buy property there for his family back in China. Since the website launched 2-1/2 years ago, the types of inquiries have changed. Where once clients were looking only for a place to live in the United States, now it's often about finding a good investment. "They're asking questions about what's the capital gain, what's the yield potential, what's it like living here and what are the taxes," Taylor said. Goodrich said 99 percent of his clients buy for investment and they look for yields of around 3 to 4 percent. The top 1 percent are looking for a trophy property. Soufan.com owned by Nasdaq-listed Sina Corp, Meiaoju.com and Auproperty.com.au are other marketplaces that work on a similar business model, acting as intermediaries for Chinese buyers and overseas agents. Other domestic and international online agents are also scrambling to form new partnerships and expand their services. Earlier this month, U.S. real estate information company Zillow Inc said it planned to partner with China'sBeijing Yisheng Leju Information Services Co, an affiliate of E-House (China) Holdings Ltd, to tap growing interest from Chinese mainland clients, the second-largest foreign buyers of U.S. homes last year. Chinese buyers spent $425,000 on average on U.S. homes as of the end of March 2013, with 69 percent of deals reported as all-cash purchases, according to Zillow. Although most buyers prefer to check out properties in person before buying, some have agreed to long-distance deals. Gladys Wang, a Chinese agent based in Houston who has more than 1,400 followers on Weibo, China's version of Twitter, said she had clients closing deals to buy $300,000 to $400,000 properties without even seeing them. "Many Chinese are not familiar with Houston, but they learnt more about the city by following my posts on Weibo," said Wang. "Nowadays consumers look at reviews before they make a purchase. Social media is good for this. They have more trust in me than those who found me through ads, because they have been following my Weibo, and that speeds up the buying process." Instead of selling physical properties, some agents opt for land sales which cost less and close faster. Frank Hu, an agent listed in Soufun.com's U.S. website, focuses on selling land in Colorado and Hawaii because the entry-level investment is much lower at $10,000 to $20,000. "Clients don't need to visit the land before buying; there's nothing to see about land. We only need to provide clients information like its location and price," he said. ($1 = 1.0705 Australian Dollars) (Additional reporting by Beth Gladstone in NEW YORK; Editing by Emily Kaiser and Alex Richardson) FREE AppDownload
Daniel Goodman / Business InsiderEvery man needs a suit, every businessman needs a tailored suit. And that especially goes for Wall Streeters. But in tough times like these, Wall Streeters have to be mindful of what they're wearing. Audacious colors must be integrated subtly, says Brian Mazza of Windsor Custom, the secret suit shop underneath Mazza's swank Chelsea sports bar. Stand out enough to look good but don't be loud. This ain't Gordon Gekko's Wall Street. We swung by Mazza's shop where he makes custom suits for everyone from bankers to celebrities to Ryan Lochte to get a few tips on how to dress like a baller in finance. FREE AppDownload
President Park Geun-Hye, daughter of former president Park Chung Hee, who is seen by many commentators as the architect of the present system, recently launched reforms aimed at reinvigorating the economy. In our view, the key engines of South Korean growth up to the present have been the chaebols, giant manufacturing conglomerates that are family owned but have close links to the state. They have proven adept at utilizing a generally well-educated workforce to create a dynamic export machine, applying relatively low-cost labor to gradually more technologically complex industrial processes. Many chaebols are still successful, standing at the global forefront in technologies such as smartphones and semiconductors, as well as displaying more traditional strengths in industries such as shipbuilding and automobile manufacturing. However, the cost of the chaebols’ dominance has come at a cost: a relatively backward and undervalued service sector and a certain bureaucratization of society with limited room for entrepreneurs, in our view. Still if you ask South Korean parents what future career they would like their children to pursue, often the answer would be a future with a top chaebol. Entrepreneurial activity is seen by many as too risky, and failure in South Korea is strongly frowned upon, which, of course, discourages people from taking a chance on a new venture. South Korea’s once-formidable economic growth rates have slackened in recent years, as the economy has changed from being one that utilizes existing technology to fuel its growth to one that originates it, which can provide new challenges and impediments. At the same time, the transfer of labor from unproductive sectors to more productive ones has been largely completed. The timing of the slowdown is unfortunate, as South Korea has one of the world’s fastest aging workforces, with the proportion of pensioners set to rise sharply in the next few years. President Park is looking to address this eventuality with an ambitious three-year plan. Some measures are relatively standard—the use of low-interest-rate loans to boost homebuilding, for example, is common to many economies. Looming demographic issues are being addressed through initiatives to increase workforce participation by improving routes into employment opportunities for the young. More significantly, some measures seek to address South Korea’s very low female workplace participation, one of the lowest rates among large economies. If, as officials hope, the measures raise the overall labor participation rate, we believe demographic issues would likely be considerably eased. Some commentators have voiced disappointment at a lack of reform measures aimed specifically at the privileged position of the chaebols. However, another class of entrenched interest, South Korea’s state-owned enterprises (SOEs)—close to 300 companies, including major electricity, gas and oil companies—are to see more vigorous measures. SOEs have a reputation for poor productivity, overstaffing and high wages, and recently released statistics suggesting that they have been accumulating debt at a rapid pace. Several of the largest SOEs, including heavily indebted railway and land and housing organizations, have been instructed to prepare and submit detailed debt-reduction plans, including rationalization and sale of non-core assets as well as pay freezes. In our opinion, the most exciting element in South Korea’s three-year plan lies in the proposals for “the creative economy,” which entails a set of measures aimed at fostering entrepreneurship and funneling funds toward start-ups, with an emphasis on projects that apply South Korea’s strengths in information and communications technologies to other economic areas. Measures such as tax breaks for “angel” investors, visas for foreign entrepreneurs, state loans and purpose-built “incubators” providing facilities for high-technology start-ups, all aim to smooth the way to new business launches. Another strand of the policy to encourage entrepreneurship is a pledge to reduce bureaucracy in key service industries such as health care, education, finance, tourism and software. We have found South Korea to be an  attractive source of investment opportunities already, both through chaebol-run businesses, as well as other companies across various fields such as health care and retail. In our opinion, President Park’s initiatives could increase the number of such interesting investment opportunities. We believe that the next few years could be potentially exciting for those who invest or are interested in investing in South Korea. Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets - Notes from Mark Mobius  Mark Mobius, Ph.D., executive chairman of Templeton Emerging Markets Group, joined Templeton in 1987. Currently, he directs the Templeton research team based in 15 global emerging markets offices and manages emerging markets portfolios. As he spans the globe in search of investment opportunities, his “Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets” blog gives readers a taste for what he does, when, where, why and how. Dr. Mobius has written several books, including “Trading with China,” “The Investor’s Guide to Emerging Markets,” “Mobius on Emerging Markets,” “Passport to Profits,” “Equities—An Introduction to the Core Concepts,” “Mutual Funds—An Introduction to the Core Concepts,” ”The Little Book of Emerging Markets,” and “Mark Mobius: An Illustrated Biography." Read more posts on Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets » This article originally appeared at Investment Adventures In Emerging Markets.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
It has more than $30 billion in revenue, stores so massive people get lost in them, and products filling up homes across the world. We're all familiar with Ikea's dominance in home furnishing. But when you're that big, there are a lot of little details that many people might not be aware of. Produced by Matt Johnston Follow BI Video: On Facebook
REUTERS/Mike SegarDowntown ManhattanNEW YORK/SYDNEY (Reuters) - For the first time, the Chinese have become the biggest foreign buyers of apartments in Manhattan, real estate brokers estimate, taking the mantle from the Russians - whose activity has dropped off since the unrest in Ukraine and the imposition of sanctions against Russia by the United States. Wealthy Chinese are pouring money into real estate in New York and some other major cities around the world, including London and Sydney, as they seek safe havens for their cash and also establish a base for their children to get an education in the West. Reuters asked five of the top real estate brokerages for their ranking of foreign buyers in New York City. The Chinese ranked first in both volume and value of sales in all their estimates. Opinions differed on just how the Russians, Europeans and South Americans stacked up next. There are no official figures collected on the national and ethnic backgrounds of home buyers because of U.S. fair housing laws, designed to protect against discrimination. The Chinese interest is mainly a valuation play, real estate experts say. After the U.S. housing bust in 2007-2010, home prices in major U.S. cities fell to levels that made them attractive. While U.S. prices have been recovering, they are still appealingly low by comparison with many other parts of the world. Many Chinese buyers are switching their interest away from markets like Shanghai, Hong Kong and Singaporeamid fears that prices have soared to frothy levels in those cities. Hong Kong has the second most expensive housing market in the world, behind Monaco, with Manhattan trailing in sixth place, according to British real estate research firm Knight Frank. The brokers say that many Chinese buyers are also investing abroad so they can own property near major educational institutions. Some are buying homes near top colleges — even though their children are so little they can't walk yet. More than 80 percent of wealthy Chinese want to send their children overseas to school, according to the Hurun Report, a Shanghai-based publication. "By far and away, the Chinese are the fastest growing demographic," said Dean Jones, a U.S.-based broker with Sotheby's International. "They are the top consumer for real estate, and New York is front and center." Added Pamela Liebman, CEO of the Corcoran Group, one of the best known New York real estate firms: "In sheer numbers, the Chinese outspend the Russians in every segment of the market." In Manhattan, it wasn't long ago that Russian oligarchs dominated the gilded world of real estate, gobbling up status-heavy, marquee properties, such as an $88 million, Robert A.M. Stern-designed penthouse and a $75 million mansion with a ballroom and a rooftop aerie. Now, many brokers say, Russian buyers have become scarce largely because of fears that the struggle over Ukraine will worsen leading to increasingly tough U.S. sanctions on politically-connected and wealthy Russians. "They're gone, they're gone," said Sotheby's International broker Nikki Field, "They've been gone since the Crimean outbreak." The Chinese grew to 28.5 percent of Field's international business in the first quarter of 2014, up from 19 percent last year. "We've only scratched the surface with Chinese demand," Field said. Chinese buyers typically used to pick up properties in the $1 to $5 million range in New York, often buying two and three at a time for investment purposes, the brokers said. But lately they have been moving up market, brokers say. The current in-vogue building among the Chinese is Central Park's One57, a new skyscraper designed by Pritzker Prize-winning French architect Christian de Portzamparc, where they can spend $18.85 million for a three-bedroom or $55 million for an apartment taking up the entire 81st floor. The building comes with all of the amenities of a five-star hotel. The Chinese are also venturing out to Long Island, where they are buying Gatsby-esque mansions set atop rolling greens. Broker Shawn Elliott ferries around groups of Chinese buyers in Rolls Royce and Mercedes-Benz luxury sprinters every week, often catering to entire families at a time. "They're looking for trophy properties," said Elliott. "They're looking for their children to be comfortable, and to be near Columbia or New York University." Some Chinese aren't even bothering to come to the United States at all, going so far as to pick up multi-million-dollar properties sight unseen. One Chinese buyer recently purchased two properties, worth $13 million, at the Baccarat Hotels &amp; Residences in New York. The entire deal was done via the Chinese social networking site WeChat, according to the broker who did the deal, Douglas Elliman's Emma Hao. "I think the Chinese trend is onwards and upwards," said Liam Bailey, a partner with Knight Frank. "There will be more Chinese buyers, and they will take more share of the market." New York isn't alone. In Sydney, the Chinese became the top buyers of new luxury homes last year, according to sales research conducted by Knight Frank. Shanghai businessman Wang Jiguang has already picked up two houses in another major Australian city,Melbourne, and one apartment in Sydney. "My child is going to study abroad, and we are just preparing some overseas assets for our child, which will be less risky," Wang said in a telephone interview from Shanghai. Mainland Chinese were the top foreign investors in Australian real estate last year, according to Australia's Foreign Investment Review Board. They bought $5.9 billion worth of property, accounting for 11.4 percent of total foreign investment in real estate, FIRB said. The data includes both residential and commercial properties. But the average value of the purchases for China is the lowest of all the countries, which suggests a large number of the deals are for residential property. Monika Tu, a broker at top-end real estate firm Black Diamondz Property Concierge in Sydney, says that over the past year mainland Chinese have become 80 percent of her company's business. "There is nearly no local market for top-end properties," says Tu. That fact has made the local headlines, with some accusing the Chinese of "pricing out local buyers". In March,Australia's federal parliament announced an inquiry into foreign investment in the sector in a bid to find out whether local real estate deals are being properly policed. In Manhattan, some locals are also starting to grumble, brokers say, about the new "China Price", a phenomenon that can see Chinese buyers sweep in and outbid other buyers, often with all-cash offers. In London, robust property laws and British universities are a big draw for the Chinese. They became the city's number one foreign buyer last year, according to Knight Frank, accounting for 6 percent of all purchases over 1 million pounds ($1.68 million). The Russians accounted for 5.2 percent. "The Russian buyers are a maturing market," said Bailey. "And they aren't growing anything like the Chinese buyers." (Reporting by Michelle Conlin and Maggie Lu Yueyang; Editing by Martin Howell and Alex Richardson) FREE AppDownload
Why is this happening? Well, first of all, the watches, headsets and assorted wearable paraphernalia released to the public so far are desperately unappealing. Ugly as all hell, in fact, as I put it last night when asked to speak to Sky News about this predictable industry failure.  Second, they are probably the creepiest set of products ever to come out of Silicon Valley—which is saying something.  That’s why celebrities have been reluctant to endorse them or be seen with them in public: They are too odd to appeal to normal people. I’ve got nothing against geeks, with their radical transparency agendas and horrible dress sense, but here in the real world being a geek is not and never will be cool. Sorry, but it’s true.  My own view is that wearable technology as a product category is already dead, and that we’ll leapfrog straight to technological implants in our bodies. That’s not as far-fetched as it sounds: Tradesmen are already implanting magnets in their fingertips to help them detect electromagnetic fields.  And there’s work being done on minuscule chips that can be implanted in the wrist or between two fingers to unlock doors and authorise payments. There’s something fabulously futuristic about implants that a heavy, awkward pair of Wi-Fi spectacles simply can’t touch. So hideously weird are Google’s glasses that there’s even a name for people with the lack of manners and taste it takes to sport them: “glassholes.” And geeks who venture onto the street wearing Glass are being routinely assaulted by members of the public.  What’s mystifying are not the assaults but the brains of people who think it’s OK to wear surveillance cameras on their faces as they go about their daily lives. I hate to be rude, but is there something a bit… wrong with these people?  Leaving your office with a camera strapped to your face that could, at any moment, be secretly photographing women on the subway, or taking covert footage of private citizens, is a grotesque social provocation.  No civilised person would condone theft or physical assault, but I reckon most regular punters would agree that these glasshole provocateurs are getting exactly what they deserve. As for fancy smart watches… give me a break. Who in their right mind wants a blinking, beeping reminder of their inbox strapped to their wrist? If I were a betting man I would wager that Apple’s rumoured iWatch, the company’s first major post-Jobs product, will be just as much of a flop as Google Glass. Bring on the implants, I say—and ditch the spooky peculiarity of Google’s nerd specs.  My last column provoked some strong reactions. Many readers felt that my approach to tracking friendships was—how should I put it?—a bit eccentric. But others recognised the benefits of a more comprehensive system of contact measurement and maintenance, and wondered whether the idea could be implemented in a more user-friendly way: Namely, as a smartphone app.  I have given my blessing to brothers Brent and Matt Bucci, entrepreneurs from San Francisco who got in touch with me, to build a prototype. The Bucci brothers are insisting on calling the app Milo, despite my fierce protestations. We’ll keep you posted on progress. I finally get it. At last, I understand what my colleagues are banging on about when they say they can’t live without caffeine. This month I’ve been on DEFCON 1, thanks to Pact, a London-based subscription coffee startup whose ultra-fresh grounds are just the thing for over-worked creatives. I started my coffee odyssey mocking another U.K. company on Twitter for its overzealous environmentalism, but after receiving Cru’s recyclable pods (almost as delicious as Pact’s grounds), I am now helplessly in thrall to the coffee press and Nespresso machine. Anxiety and insomnia be damned: I’ve never been this productive in my life. It was Earth Day on Wednesday, a dull festival of smugness that does absolutely nothing for the planet but makes a lot of middle-class people feel good about themselves. (You can tell pointless campaigns because they use “raising awareness” in place of any productive raison d&#8217;être.)  I celebrated as I always do, by turning on every light and radiator in the house, boiling the kettle repeatedly, making toast I didn’t want and leaving the oven set to 250°C all day.  I’m not sure that’s quite what Thomas Jefferson had in mind when he said a little rebellion now and then is a good thing, but boy did it take my mind off all that bossy finger-wagging on the Internet. The London tech scene and Prince Andrew: a marriage made in heaven? One is an irritating, bloated, taxpayer-subsidised orgy of self-regard, of no practical use to anyone. The other is&#8230; well, you get the idea. It takes a special sort of insecurity—or ignorance, perhaps—to suck up to the sleaziest member of the British Royal Family in so cringeworthy a fashion. But of course Tech City is doing it with gusto. Normally, founders, VCs and their blogging cheerleaders would describe themselves as ideological republicans. But notice how quickly their spots change on receipt of an SW1-postmarked envelope. The promise of a few cucumber sandwiches at the Palace and it’s as if the cult of “disruption” and “sticking it to the Establishment” never existed. Widely ridiculed and in editorial crisis, last year technology news site PandoDaily bought NSFWCORP, a ballsy but struggling magazine founded by my old friend Paul Carr. It was a strange acquisition: Pando was considered an exhaust valve for vested interests in Silicon Valley—including its own investors—while NSFWCORP had nothing obviously to do with tech, and a reputation for biting the hands that fed it. But, with the addition of Carr and his writers, quality at Pando has skyrocketed and the exclusives are coming thick and fast. The site’s coverage still suffers from two grating faults: Everything is too long, and everything is absurdly self-congratulatory. (Pando’s scoop about Indiegogo is shocking, but Watergate it ain’t: See our own Rob Price for a summary of the story at saner length.)  But the site looks set to achieve the most remarkable about-face since the last time John Kerry grabbed a mic. You should tune in.  I’m a fan of OkCupid’s data blog, which reveals sexual insights from the site’s gigantic database. Recently, the blog revealed an interesting relationship between masturbation and Twitter addiction. If I’m reading the data right, OkCupid says that people aged 18-24 who use Twitter every day are only 50 percent likely to have masturbated on any given day of the week. Casual or non-users jerk off more frequently: Something like 70 percent of them have masturbated on any given day. In other words, people who spend all day on Twitter are less likely to be wankers. No offence, but I think we all know that’s not true.  Milo Yiannopoulos is the founder and former Editor-in-Chief of The Kernel. His first book, The Sociopaths of Silicon Valley, will be published in 2015
One of the oldest "rules" on Wall Street is "sell in May and go away." Based on some rough historical observations, someone decided that it might be a great idea to stay out of the stock market between May and sometime in the fall. FBN Securities J.C. O'Hara ran the numbers for the past 20 years and charted the returns. "The majority of the time the market was unimpressive over those summer months," he said. "The majority of the markets returns were housed in the first model that was long the months into May and the months after September." Of course, history is, at best, a guide, not gospel. "As we approach May we are not in the SELL camp yet, but rather acknowledge the fact that a volatile, sideways-moving market is what history implies," said O'Hara. FBN Securities FREE AppDownload
Nearly everyone writing on the subject agrees that inequality is increasing, and growing numbers of Americans are troubled by the trend. The question is what can be done about it. Most progressives — including Krugman and Piketty himself — advocate higher taxes on wealth and inheritance to restrain the growth of inequality. Then there are income taxes that target the super-salaries that have become so common in the world of finance and among corporate executives. (In my favorite example, Henrique de Castro collected a $60 million severance package from Yahoo when he was fired as the company's chief operating officer after slightly more than a year on the job. That was on top of his annual salary of roughly $40 million, bringing his total compensation for 15 months of work into the vicinity of $109 million.) Increases in wealth, inheritance, and incomes taxes certainly might do some good. But not as much as imposing a maximum wage. No, this isn't some Marxist fantasy. It's a clear-eyed response to the fact that in 2012 the ratio of CEO compensation to that of a typical worker in the United States was an astonishing 273-to-1. That's a gap made possible by a rise in CEO compensation of 875 percent since 1978 — an era when the typical worker's salary has increased by a mere 5.4 percent. (The lopsided ratio, of course, is an average. The pay discrepancy is much greater in some companies. JC Penney, for example, paid its former CEO Ron Johnson 1,795 times the average wage and benefits of a U.S. department store worker.) Democratic citizenship depends on a certain commonality of shared experience and power across regions and races and classes. That's always going to be a challenge in a continent-wide nation of 310 million people with complicated immigration patterns and a sordid history of racial injustice. But it becomes close to impossible when the super-rich use their incomparable wealth, power, and influence to insulate themselves from meritocratic checks of the market as well as government oversight and regulation, ensuring that they acquire ever-greater wealth, power, and influence over time. The idea of taking a modest stand in favor of democracy and against America's emerging oligarchic class by capping wages doesn't come out of nowhere. An op-ed in The New York Times proposed a maximum wage back in 1996. Talk-show host Bill Maher floated the idea on his show a couple of months ago. When it comes to practical proposals, last November 66 percent of Swiss voters rejected an initiative that would have capped the compensation of a company's top executives at 12 times the wage of its lowest paid workers. A cap that draconian would fare far worse in the United States, and rightly so. But that doesn't mean something less severe and more thoughtfully crafted couldn't catch on here. CNN columnist John D. Sutter has smartly suggested a maximum wage set at 100 times the federal minimum wage of $7.25 an hour (or $15,080 a year based on a 40-hour work week). That works out to a maximum of roughly $1.5 million a year. Or if that's too harsh, how about making it 200 times the minimum, raising the maximum to $3 million a year. Hell, we could even peg the maximum to 1,000 times the minimum wage — $15 million a year — and still allow CEOs to be filthy rich while reining in the most obscene excesses at the very top. (Forbes reports that top-earning CEO John Hammergren of California medical supply company McKesson earned total compensation in 2011 of $131.2 million.) An added benefit of tying maximum pay to the minimum wage is that it would give the super-rich an incentive to back (or at least to stop opposing) a minimum wage hike. Now there's a way to inspire democratic fellow-feeling across classes! Of course it's hard to imagine Washington's political class moving to impose anything like a maximum wage at a time when it can't even manage to pass a (solidly popular) increase in the minimum wage. (This inertia is yet another indication of why bold reform is so desperately needed.) But even if it's unlikely that Congress and the president would impose a maximum wage, a strong popular movement in support of it could still do considerable good simply by persuading the super-rich to preemptively cut back a bit on their greed and propensity for shameless self-dealing. That wouldn't be much. But it would be something. And at this point, those of us not earning millions of dollars a year will take whatever we can get. This article originally appeared at The Week.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
It's a rough day for Russia. Earlier, S&amp;P cut the country's credit rating to one notch above junk. Then, the Russian central bank did a surprise rate hike (lifting its main rate from 7.0% to 7.5%) to help revive the flagging ruble. But that's already failing. Here's a chart of the dollar against the ruble. The dollar is now at its high of the day against the Russian currency. XE.com FREE AppDownload
ShutterstockMarkets have been in the red all morning, and now they're getting worse. Germany is leading the down in Europe, with a decline of 1.3%. US futures are now down around 0.4%. The big stories today: Rising tensions and economic deterioration in Russia, as S&amp;P has cut the country's credit rating to one notch above junk. In the US, Ford just missed earnings, and the stock is down 3% in the pre market. Meanwhile, gold has blasted above $1300. FREE AppDownload
Getty Images/Emmanuel DunandSpotify founder Daniel EkStreaming music service Spotify has added more than 1m active users in the UK in the last four months, as it tries to overtake Apple's iTunes as the biggest digital music service in Europe. "Some of our partners are saying Spotify is now generating more revenue each month across Continental Europe than iTunes," Spotify's head of label relations in Europe, Kevin Brown, told industry site Music Week. "Given that download sales are declining and Spotify is growing rapidly, particularly in the UK, it is only a matter of time before Spotify is bigger than iTunes across Europe as a whole." Brown added that a "significant amount" of the million new British Spotify users are paying for a subscription, rather than listening to its free, advertising-supported version. The growth has been sparked by marketing partnerships with Vodafone and the Sunday Times. "Organic subscribers are coming to us in their droves as a result of the publicity from those initiatives. Streaming is growing so rapidly in the UK - we’ve got a perfect storm here," said Brown. Spotify said in March 2013 that globally, it had 24m active users, including 6m paying subscribers. The company has not updated those figures since, but music industry sources tell The Guardian that the company has been waiting to surpass 10m paying subscribers before announcing new stats – and that it may hit this milestone in the next few months. The UK is one of Spotify's biggest markets. The company's UK subsidiary published financial results for 2012 last November, when it generated £92.6m from British customers, including £64.8m from subscriptions and £9.1m from advertising. The UK accounted for just over a quarter of Spotify's global revenues in 2012. In 2013, streaming music services generated £103m of revenues in the UK according to figures from industry body the BPI, which said that British music fans streamed 7.4bn songs that year – double the total in 2012. Streaming accounted for just 10% of overall UK recorded music revenues in 2013 – just over £1bn – but Brown told Music Week that Spotify expects that proportion to rise to around one third in 2014. But for all the talk about overtaking Apple's downloads store, Spotify is seemingly seeing more threat from another tech giant. "I don’t see iTunes as our primary competitor - that’s YouTube," said Brown, criticizing labels that decide to keep albums off Spotify in favour of exclusive deals with iTunes. "We’re still put in the same bucket as iTunes by some labels, whose music then appears on YouTube. That drives me nuts." • Streaming is good for labels, but are they good for streaming? • Zoe Keating reveals iTunes, Spotify and YouTube payouts • Billy Bragg: Labels not Spotify deserve payments scrutiny The prospect of Spotify overtaking iTunes is causing concern for some musicians and songwriters, who are worried about streaming's ability to sustain artists' careers – a sale of a 99p iTunes download pays out just over 69p to rights-holders, while a Spotify stream averages a payout of between 0.35p and 0.5p. In both cases those rightsholders then pass on varying percentages of those royalties to the music's creators. Radiohead and Atoms for Peace's Thom Yorke famously described Spotify as "the last desperate fart of a dying corpse" last year, suggesting that "as musicians we need to fight the Spotify thing". Fellow musician David Byrne wrote in a comment piece for The Guardian that "in future, if artists have to rely almost exclusively on the income from these services, they'll be out of work within a year". For its part, Spotify has argued that streaming pays off over a longer period for musicians, as a royalty is paid every time their track is played, rather than the downloads model of a one-off payment when it is purchased. In December 2013, Spotify launched an artist-focused website explaining how it calculates these payouts, and outlining current monthly payments for a range of albums – from $3,300 for a niche indie album to $425,000 for a global hit album – as well as predictions for how much more they'll earn if the company reaches 40m paying subscribers. The company is also trying to persuade artists not to give Apple exclusives on albums that are then withheld from Spotify and its streaming rivals. Artists like Beyoncé have clearly done well from iTunes exclusives, but Spotify's current case study is singer Kiesza, whose 'Hideaway' single was available for three weeks on the streaming service before going on sale, when it promptly topped the iTunes and official UK singles charts. For now, Spotify versus iTunes is a fairly clear streaming versus iTunes comparison. But with Apple already having a streaming radio service – iTunes Radio – in a few countries, and tipped to launch a full Spotify-style "on-demand" streaming service later this year, the two companies are likely to be even more direct competitors in the coming years. • Is Spotify going to save the music industry or destroy it? This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Baz RatnerA woman bandages the head of a pro-Russian activist injured outside the Mariupol town hall, East Ukraine April 24, 2014.Good morning! Here's what you need to know. Russia Downgraded. S&amp;P downgraded Russian debt to  BBB- — one not above junk — from BBB. "In our view, the large capital outflows from Russia in the first quarter of 2014 heighten the risk of a marked deterioration in external financing, either through a significant shift in foreign direct investments or portfolio equity investments," the agency said. "We see this as a risk to Russia's economic growth prospects." Rate Raised. Russia's Central Bank raised the country's main interest rate to 7.5% from 7% "amid increased inflation risks as mounting tensions over Ukraine and the threat of sanctions squeeze the economy and weaken the ruble," Bloomberg said.  'World War III'. Ukrainian Prime Minister Arseny Yatseniuk said Friday that Russia wanted to start "World War Three" by occupying Ukraine "militarily and politically" and creating a conflict that would spread to the rest of Europe. "The world has not yet forgotten World War Two, but Russia already wants to start World War Three," Yatseniuk told the interim cabinet in remarks broadcast live. "Attempts at military conflict in Ukraine will lead to a military conflict in Europe." U.S. Mortgage Demand Plummets. Originations fell to a 14-year low of $235 billion in Q1, down 58% YOY and 23% from Q4. "...Homeowners pulled back sharply from refinancing and house hunters showed little appetite for new loans, the latest sign of how rising interest rates have dented the housing recovery," the Wall Street Journal's Nick Timiraos said. Thursday U.S. Earnings Moves. Visa was down 4.5% after-hours after the company reported single-digit revenue growth percentage for the first time in more than four years on a strong U.S. dollar. They also warned on Russia's move to open its own credit card network, Reuters said. Starbucks and Microsoft are up more than 1%, with the former raising its 2014 forecast and the latter posting strong net income growth. Amazon was off more than 1%. The company reported expenses had increased 23%. French Power Sale. The board of French conglomerate Alstom will meet today to discuss a proposal to sell its power plants to GE. "The transaction would give GE control of Alstom’s technology for power transmission and power plant maintenance as Europe’s economy starts to revive," Bloomberg said. "It would be a rare example of a major French company being taken over by a U.S. rival." U.K. Retail Sales. Receipts unexpectedly jumped 0.1% in March as spending on clothing climbed. Analysts were expecting a pullback of 0.4%. Data. At 9:45 we get a flash PMI Services reading from Markit. Consensus is for a reading of 56.2 from 55.5 prior. Ten minutes later we get UMich/Reuters consumer sentiment for April, expected to be basically unchanged at 82.5.  Earnings. Burger King, Ford, Hyundai and Samsung all report. Markets. Stocks and futures are down across the board, while German bunds and fixed-income rallied on a flight to quality over concerns in Ukraine. FREE AppDownload
AFPPinterest launched a tool to help people quickly sift through the roughly 30 billion 'Pins' on the service's online bulletin boards to find what they like. In a move similar to one made last year by Facebook, Pinterest is tapping into its rich trove of user-posted content to tackle questions that traditional search engines such as Google or Bing don't handle well. Pinterest users can turn to the new Guided Search feature for answers to questions such as how to make a yummy breakfast, where to go on vacation or how to customize a motor scooter. "Search engines are great for answering specific questions -- the weather in San Francisco or the capital of Peru -- but Pinterest can help with the questions that have more than one right answer," said Pinterest discovery team head Hui Xu. "With so many possibilities, you might not know the best one till you see it." Pinterest introduced Guided Search with the help of more than 100 "Pinners" at a party at its San Francisco headquarters. There are more than 750 million online bulletin boards with a combined total of about 30 billion Pins hand-picked by people sharing images on myriad interests from travel to food to sports and more, according to Pinterest. "There are a lot of Pins and there is not much time," a Pinterest team member said at the launch event. "We are working hard to make sure it's simple to find what you are looking for" as well as allowing for serendipitous discovery. Guided Search was billed as being tailored for exploring, "whether you know exactly what you want, or you’re just starting to look around." The tool is available on smartphones and tablets that are increasingly the preferred options for accessing the Internet. It begins with keyword searches that trigger suggestions. Pinterest gave the example of searching on the word "running" and being guided to refine hunts by selecting categories such as shoes, marathons, trails or even music playlists. About this time last year, California-based Facebook launched its Graph Search tool designed to tap into networks of friends and publicly shared posts at the social network for answers to naturally worded questions such "What is a good film to check out?" Pinterest last month said it will soon start pinning ads to its popular online bulletin boards in the form of "promoted Pins." Pinterest began testing promoted Pins late last year and is "encouraged" by what it has so far seen. Facebook and Twitter both bring in money from ads in the form of posts "promoted" to prominent positions in streams of updates at the social networks. Pinterest late last year raised $225 million in new capital that it planned to use to expand to 10 more countries. The funding round valued the company at $3.8 billion, according to a Pinterest statement to AFP. Co-founder and chief executive Ben Silbermann said the new funding will help Pinterest's expansion. Pinterest has become one of the Internet's hottest young websites, particularly among women, by giving people virtual bulletin boards that they personally curate with pictures showcasing interests in anything from food to sports, fashion or travel. The company has not disclosed the number of users, although estimates from digital analytics firm comScore put the figure at around 60 million. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Robert GalbraithAn Apple computer is shown on Google's company campus in Mountain View, California February 9, 2010.SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Four major tech companies including Apple and Google have agreed to pay a total of $324 million to settle a lawsuit accusing them of conspiring to hold down salaries in Silicon Valley, sources familiar with the deal said, just weeks before a high profile trial had been scheduled to begin. Tech workers filed a class action lawsuit against Apple Inc, Google Inc, Intel Inc and Adobe Systems Inc in 2011, alleging they conspired to refrain from soliciting one another's employees in order to avert a salary war. They planned to ask for $3 billion in damages at trial, according to court filings. That could have tripled to $9 billion under antitrust law. The case has been closely watched due to the potentially high damages award and the opportunity to peek into the world of Silicon Valley's elite. The case was based largely on emails in which Apple's late co-founder Steve Jobs, former Google CEO Eric Schmidt and some of their Silicon Valley rivals hatched plans to avoid poaching each other's prized engineers. In one email exchange after a Google recruiter solicited an Apple employee, Schmidt told Jobs that the recruiter would be fired, court documents show. Jobs then forwarded Schmidt's note to a top Apple human resources executive with a smiley face. Another exchange shows Google's human resources director asking Schmidt about sharing its no-cold call agreements with competitors. Schmidt, now the company's executive chairman, advised discretion. "Schmidt responded that he preferred it be shared 'verbally, since I don't want to create a paper trail over which we can be sued later?'" he said, according to a court filing. The HR director agreed. The companies had acknowledged entering into some no-hire agreements but disputed the allegation that they had conspired to drive down wages. Moreover, they argued that the employees should not be allowed to sue as a group. Rich Gray, a Silicon Valley antitrust expert in private practice, said the companies had an incentive to avoid trial because their executives' emails would make them look extremely unsympathetic to a jury. However, the plaintiff attorneys risked an appeals court saying the engineers could not sue as a group at all. "An appellate court could say, 'Hey we just don't buy that,'" Gray said. Trial had been scheduled to begin at the end of May on behalf of roughly 64,000 workers. Spokespeople for Apple, Google and Intel declined to comment. An Adobe representative said that the company denies it engaged in any wrongdoing, but settled "in order to avoid the uncertainties, cost and distraction of litigation." An attorney for the plaintiffs, Kelly Dermody of Lieff Cabraser Heimann &amp; Bernstein, in a statement called the deal "an excellent resolution." Corporate defendants in antitrust cases often agree among themselves what portion each will contribute towards a settlement, said Daniel Crane, a professor at the University of Michigan Law School. One likely formula would be to divide the damages based on how many employees each company has in the class, he said. Apple, Google, Adobe and Intel in 2010 settled a U.S. Department of Justice probe by agreeing not to enter into such no-hire deals in the future. The four companies had since been fighting the civil antitrust class action. Walt Disney Co's Pixar and Lucasfilm units and Intuit Inc had already agreed to a settlement, with Disney paying about $9 million and Intuit paying $11 million. Any settlement must be approved by U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh in San Jose, California. A hearing on final approval of the Intuit and Disney deals is scheduled for next week. The plaintiffs and the companies will disclose principal terms of the settlement by May 27, according to the court filing on Thursday, though it is unclear whether that will spell out what each company will pay. Some Silicon Valley companies refused to enter into no-hire agreements. Facebook Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg, for instance, rebuffed an entreaty from Google in 2008 that they refrain from poaching each other's employees. Additionally, Apple's Jobs threatened Palm with a patent lawsuit if Palm didn't agree to stop soliciting Apple employees. However, then Palm Chief Executive Edward Colligan told Jobs that the plan was "likely illegal," and that Palm was not "intimidated" by the threat. The case in U.S. District Court, Northern District of California is In Re: High-Tech Employee Antitrust Litigation, 11-cv-2509. (Reporting by Dan Levine, editing by Peter Henderson) FREE AppDownload
While I was busy beating my chest yesterday over low yields in the USA and my many dismissals of a “bond bubble” in the USA, I conveniently left out an even bigger bull market in bonds (that I totally missed since 2012).  Last night, Spain sold 10 year bonds at 3.06%.  That’s the lowest yield since 2005 and fast approaching a record low. Bloomberg This is incredible in my opinion.  I mean, it’s not incredible that a credible central bank can control interest rates if it really wants to, but the fact that we’re at record lows is simply stunning.  Even more amazing, the average yield to maturity on Greek, Irish, Italian, Portuguese and Spanish debt has fallen to 2.19%, the lowest since 1998. What’s interesting here is that Spanish 10 years have not only averaged twice this level since 1991, but that Spain’s debt to GDP continues to worsen (it was 93.9% in Q4).    To be honest, I don’t know exactly what’s going on here and there are probably too many moving political pieces to really know.  Obviously, the central bank backstop is the driving force, but the market seems to be pricing in something even more extreme than that.  In essence, it looks like European debt of all types is once again becoming indistinguishable to a large degree.  This sort of convergence implies that there is a greater chance of a supranational entity in Europe’s future which makes the incomplete monetary union reflect something more like the USA where there is a unified Treasury, Central Bank and currency system.  I’ve written in some detail about the strong likelihood that Europe is moving towards a United States of Europe of some type. I don’t know where this is all headed, but it sure looks like the easy money has been made in peripheral bonds.  A more unified Europe would be great in my opinion, but we have to wonder if the market isn’t unrealistically optimistic about what lies in our immediate future with regards to how unified these nations are actually willing to become.  A central bank can piece this together for a long time, but at some point after multiple depressions and rebalancings via wage channels (including depressions as we’ve seen in the periphery) there needs to be real political change and that’s where the rubber meets the road on how much a Spanish bond really resembles a German bond FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Konstantin ChernichkinUkraine's new Prime Minister Arseny Yatseniuk speaks during a news conference in Kiev February 28, 2014.KIEV (Reuters) - Ukrainian Prime Minister Arseny Yatseniuk accused Russia on Friday of wanting to start World War Three by occupying Ukraine "militarily and politically". "The world has not yet forgotten World War Two, but Russia already wants to start World War Three," Yatseniuk told the interim cabinet in remarks broadcast live. "Attempts at military conflict in Ukraine will lead to a military conflict in Europe." In some of the strongest language he has yet used in a war of words between the former Soviet neighbors, as both sides have deployed troops close to their frontier, Yatseniuk accused Moscow of acting like a "gangster" supporting "terrorists". "It is clear that Russia's goal is to wreck the election in Ukraine, remove the pro-Western and pro-Ukrainian government and occupy Ukraine politically as well as military," added the premier. Yatseniuk took office in February after pro-European protests prompted the Kremlin-backed president to flee to Russia. Ukraine plans to hold an election to replace Viktor Yanukovich on May 25, but the Russian-speaking east of the country has been disrupted by pro-Moscow militants who have taken over the city of Slaviansk and public buildings elsewhere, demanding to follow Crimea into being annexed by Russia. Russia denies involvement but has denounced the Ukrainian government, which it says is illegitimate and backed by "fascist" Ukrainian nationalists, and has threatened to move in to protect ethnic Russians and Russian-speakers in Ukraine. Yatseniuk called on Moscow to fulfill obligations to persuade activists in eastern Ukraine to lay down arms under a four-way agreement signed last week in Geneva by the two governments, as well as Ukraine's U.S. and EU allies. "Russia's support for terrorists and bandits who torture peaceful citizens is an international crime. It is a crime against humanity," added the prime minister. Ukraine's state security service has accused Russian military intelligence officers in Ukraine, and the separatist leader in Slaviansk, of involvement in the torture and murder of a local councilor from Yatseniuk's Batkivshchyna (Fatherland) party. The prime minister said Kiev was still waiting for a response to an official request for details of Russian military exercises on the border. It made the request through mechanisms of Europe's OSCE security body and set a deadline of Saturday. The defense minister, quoted by Interfax-Ukraine news agency, said Russian troops on maneuvers had come within one kilometer (1,100 yards) of the border but had not crossed. Yatseniuk said: "If the United States, the European Union and the entire international community continues to be united and act together to compel Russia to fulfill its obligations, then we will maintain the peace, stability and international security system that Russia wants to destroy." (Reporting by Pavel Polityuk; Writing by Alastair Macdonald; Editing by Richard Balmforth) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe flagship store of Finnish mobile phone manufacturer Nokia is pictured in HelsinkiHELSINKI (Reuters) - Nokia &lt;NOK1V.HE&gt;, which is set to close the sale of its phone business to Microsoft &lt;MSFT.O&gt;, will on Tuesday name Rajeev Suri as its next CEO and outline its new strategy with a focus on its networks equipment business, a newspaper said on Friday. Citing unnamed sources, daily Helsingin Sanomat said Nokia would also on Tuesday, along with its first-quarter results, announce how much cash it would pay out to shareholders. Investors have been looking forward to hearing about Nokia's next steps since it announced the 5.4 billion euro ($7.5 billion) Microsoft deal in September. Nokia said earlier this week it expected the deal to close on Friday after the companies had agreed to modify certain deal conditions. 46-year-old Suri, born in India, has been widely considered the leading candidate for the CEO post as in recent years he has helped the network division Nokia Solutions and Networks (NSN) turn profitable with a drastic restructuring plan and by ditching unprofitable businesses. The newspaper also said Nokia would over time abandon the name NSN. Nokia was not immediately available for comment. ($1 = 0.7236 euros) (Reporting by Jussi Rosendahl) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe base of several wind turbine blades are seen outside TPI Composites in Newton(Reuters) - Call it the comeback kid. A new ranking of the competitiveness of the world's top 25 exporting countries says the United States is once again a "rising star" of global manufacturing thanks to falling domestic natural gas prices, rising worker productivity and a lack of upward wage pressure. The report, released on Friday by the Boston Consulting Group (BCG,) found that while China remains the world's No. 1 country in terms of manufacturing competitiveness, its position is "under pressure" as a result of rising labor and transportation costs and lagging productivity growth. The United States, meanwhile, which has lost nearly 7.5 million industrial jobs since employment in the sector peaked in 1979 as manufacturers shipped production to low-cost countries, is now No. 2 in terms of overall competitiveness, BCG said. The biggest factor driving the U.S. rebound, according to BCG: cheap natural gas prices, which have tumbled 50 percent over the last decade as a result of the shale gas revolution. Also contributing to the country's attractiveness, according to BCG, is "stable wage growth" - a euphemism for the fact that, in inflation-adjusted terms, industrial wages here are lower today than they were in the 1960s even though worker productivity has doubled over the same period of time. "Overall costs in the U.S.," the report's authors write, "are 10 to 25 percent lower than those of the world's ten leading goods-exporting nations other than China" and on par with Eastern Europe. Another standout in the rankings is Mexico, which BCG categorizes as a "rising star" with lower average manufacturing costs than China. But the country failed to make BCG's list of Top 10 manufacturers because of other factors, including rampant crime and corruption. BCG arrived at the rankings using a proprietary index that focuses on four major factors: wages, productivity growth, energy costs and exchange rates. In addition to China, four other countries with reputations as low-cost production centers - Brazil, the Czech Republic, Poland and Russia - are classified as being "under pressure" in terms of their manufacturing costs. Here is BCG's ranking of the world's Top 10 countries in terms of manufacturing competitiveness: 1. China 2. United States 3. South Korea 4. United Kingdom 5. Japan 6. Netherlands 7. Germany 8. Italy 9. Belgium 10. France (Reporting by James B. Kelleher in Detroit; Editing by Nick Zieminski) FREE AppDownload
This morning, S&amp;P downgraded Russia's credit rating to one notch above junk. S&amp;P's #1 reason for the downgrade? Money is fleeing Russia fast.  This is what S&amp;P says right at the top of the downgrade announcement: In our view, the large capital outflows from Russia in the first quarter of 2014 heighten the risk of a marked deterioration in external financing, either through a significant shift in foreign direct investments or portfolio equity investments. We see this as a risk to Russia's economic growth prospects. This chart from Morgan Stanley published earlier in the week shows the problem. Morgan Stanley Basically just look at the big light blue bar at the right end. That's investor money fleeing the scene. With political instability a weakening economy and rising sanctions, it seems safe to say that investor money won't be rushing in any time soon. And that's a problem. For more on S&amp;P's announcement, see here. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Maxim Shemetov Another unwelcome economic development for Vladimir Putin: S&amp;P just downgraded Russia to one notch above junk. It's now at BBB- versus BBB previously. Why the downgrade? Basically because investor capital is fleeing the country, growth is slowing, and policymaking institutions are garbage. The announcement can be found here. Here's S&amp;P's summary of the announcement: In our view, the large capital outflows from Russia in the first quarter of 2014 heighten the risk of a marked deterioration in external financing, either through a significant shift in foreign direct investments or portfolio equity investments. We see this as a risk to Russia's economic growth prospects. We are therefore lowering our foreign currency ratings on Russia to 'BBB-/A-3' from 'BBB/A-2', lowering our local-currency long-term rating to 'BBB' from 'BBB+', and affirming our local-currency short-term rating at 'A-2'. The outlook on both the foreign and local currency ratings remains negative. If we perceived increased risks to Russia's creditworthiness stemming from much weaker medium-term economic growth or due to reduced monetary policy flexibility, we could lower our sovereign ratings on Russia further.  For context, this chart from Morgan Stanley shows the large capital outflows from Russia. Morgan Stanley Just yesterday, John Kerry warned of further sanctions on Russia if it made no new moves to de-escalate the situation in Ukraine. FREE AppDownload
Jim Maragos/U.S. Fish and Wildlife ServiceGood morning! Markets are lower. The big story is the ongoing tension in Ukraine, as John Kerry warned last night that Russia was close to having additional sanctions imposed on it. Also, Ukraine says more Russian troops are being massed on its border. German stocks are off 0.85%. Russian stocks are down 1%, after falling yesterday. The UK is down 0.3%. US shares at this point are just down marginally. The only economic data today is Michigan consumer sentiment. Next week of course is big, as it's Jobs Week. FREE AppDownload
Shares of the three-headed (Internet-technology-media) hydra that is Amazon.com Inc. (NASDAQ:AMZN) closed Thursday’s regular session up 3.87 percent at $337.15 per share and jumped as much as 2 percent higher in post-market trading after the company reported strong first-quarter results. Cutting straight to the chase, net sales increased 23 percent on the year to $19.74 billion, above the mean analyst estimate of $19.43 billion. Net income of $108 million, or 23 cents per diluted share, up 27.8 percent on the year, was in-line with the mean analyst estimate. Although net income remained relatively small — Amazon is working with an operating margin that is 0.7 percent of worldwide sales, down from 1.1 percent on the year — the considerable jump in net sales is, well, considerable. Amazon logged 22 percent net sales growth over the trailing twelve-month period (Amazon’s financial wizards are partial to the TTM terminology), and worldwide net sales of $78.1 billion over the last year. With operating margins that are just a fraction of a percent, Amazon’s explosive top-line growth is tantalizing to investors. This is evidenced by the fact that the stock is trading at an incredible 571.44 times TTM earnings. As long as there’s no reason to believe that margins will turn chronically negative, it can probably maintain that price level. Given the company’s aggressive roll out of new products and services, it seems reasonable to expect strong top-line growth moving forward. Moreover, even small increases in margin will have a dramatic impact on earnings, and investors are clearly willing to pay for this potential.  One of the most interesting, and perhaps most important developments for Amazon over the course of the quarter was the evolution of Amazon Studies and of Prime Instant Video. Amazon announced recently that it had secured an exclusive deal with HBO to offer older seasons of HBO programming through the Prime streaming service, and will be able to offer subscribers the entirety of popular HBO series like The Sopranos and Six Feet Under as well as episodes of new series, including Veep and Girls but not Game of Thrones, three years after they air. The arrangement could be critical for Amazon, which is competing with the increasingly powerful Netflix (NASDAQ:NFLX) for rank in the pantheon of online video streaming service providers. Netflix doesn’t have the rights to any HBO programming, which means it’s missing out on a ton of popular shows that Amazon now has. Premium cable channels like HBO, Starz, and Showtime have been reluctant to license its shows to on-demand services as it still wants people to sign up for premium cable subscriptions in order to get the content. But traditional cable is an aging model, and more people are turning to much less expensive streaming services to get their TV fix. HBO has its own streaming service called HBO Go, which will be launched on Amazon’s recently announced Fire TV set-top box as a part of the deal. This is the first time that HBO has licensed its programming to an outside online streaming service, and it’s a big win for Amazon. This, combined with its own original programming — Amazon Studies has green lit six original pilots — gives the service a seriously sharp competitive edge against Netflix. Amazon’s presence in the online video streaming spacing is just one facet of the company’s strategy to embed itself in the day-to-day lives of people all around the world. The company’s core business is its marketplace, and it’s a business that the company is continuously developing and refining. For example, Amazon announced Prime Pantry in the first quarter. Prime Pantry is a service designed to provide customers with access to low-cost, non-bulk everyday food and personal care items. Amazon also introduced Dash, “an easy-to-use shopping device that allows Prime Fresh customers, and their families, to effortlessly shop hundreds of thousands of items — ranging from groceries to household essentials — from anywhere in their home without having to browse the AmazonFresh website or app. Dash works directly with a customer’s AmazonFresh account — simply scan items or say the items you want and Dash finds it for you using voice search that actually works.” Not to be left out, Amazon’s cloud business, Amazon Web Services, announced more price reductions. Prices for Amazon Simple Storage, Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud, and Amazon Relational Database Service prices have all been lowered. In addition, Amazon introduced Cost Explorer, a tool that allows customers to help optimize costs. The price reductions will save AWS customers “hundreds of millions of dollars over the next several months alone,” according to Amazon founder and Chief Executive Jeff Bezos. Amazon had little to say about the Kindle this quarter — and to that point, not much happened with it this quarter. Looking ahead, Amazon is is providing second-quarter net sales guidance in a range between $18.1 billion and $19.8 billion, growth of between 15 and 26 percent. Operating income is expected to come in at a loss between $55 million and $455 million, which includes “approximately $455 million for stock-based compensation and amortization of intangible assets.” FREE AppDownload
