© AFP/File Jewel SamadChinese online retail giant Alibaba founder Jack Ma smiles as he waits for trading to open on the floor at the New York Stock Exchange in New York September 19, 2014New York (AFP) - Wall Street in 2014 enjoyed its best year for initial public offerings since 2000, thanks to the record-setting flotation of Chinese Internet giant Alibaba and a barrage of biotech deals. Activity was "uninterrupted" and proved largely immune to forces that at times rattled equity markets, Renaissance Capital said in a report this week. "While various global events, such as Russia's incursion into the Ukraine and conflicts in the Middle East, caused nervousness in global markets, they largely failed to disrupt the US IPO applecart," Renaissance said. Renaissance said there were 273 stock debuts in 2014, up 23 percent from 2013. Dealogic released similar numbers, counting 291 offerings, up 27 percent from 2013. Analysts are gearing up for another heady year in 2015, citing a deep pipeline of securities filings from leading prospects and investor zeal for such hot names such as apartment rental website Airbnb and app-based taxi service Uber. New entrants to US equity markets raised $85 billion in 2014, according to Renaissance, about 55 percent more than in 2013.  "What is behind the growth is that companies are really growing and need more capital to continue to accelerate their growth," Bob Greifeld, Nasdaq chief executive, said on CNBC. "That is great for the overall economy." The year 2000 remains the best on record for IPOs, with 406 offerings raising $96 billion, Renaissance noted. Renaissance CapitalParadoxically, while the US and China spar for the distinction of the world's biggest economy, the Chinese Internet marketplace Alibaba emerged as a key player behind New York's banner year. Alibaba in September became the biggest IPO in history, raising $22 billion.  Besides Alibaba, nine other companies raised more than $1 billion in 2014. They included Citizens Financial, a unit of British bank Royal Bank of Scotland, with $3.0 billion gained, and Synchrony Financial, which was spun out of General Electric, with $2.9 billion. A big chunk of this year's IPOs came out of the health sector, with biotechs comprising 25 percent of total deal volume at 69 offerings, Renaissance said.  Biotech offerings also accounted for eight of the top 10 IPOs in terms of return to shareholders. However, the health sector also was responsible for five of the 10 worst-performing new stocks.  In all, the average new stock finished 16 percent higher at the end of the year compared with its IPO price. That was well below the 40.8 percent gain in 2013. Renaissance cited the sell-off in energy IPOs in the latter part of the year as oil prices tanked, as well as a correction in high-multiple tech stocks in March and April, for the year-over-year decline.  Twice as many deals were postponed in 2014 compared with the prior year and 40 percent came to market below the proposed pricing range, the report said. Experts expect another strong year in 2015, owing to a heavy number of securities filings from companies disclosing plans to do offerings. Renaissance has a private company "watchlist" of 255 companies that could go public. More than 80 percent are in the tech sector. The list includes web registration company GoDaddy and subscription-based music streaming service Spotify. "Overall positive returns and a large pipeline suggest that consistent deal flow should continue into 2015, tempered by disciplined pricing," Renaissance said. "While IPOs in 2015 will have to grapple with a Fed ready to raise interest rates, a depressed energy sector and concerns over economic growth abroad, the US IPO market proved its resiliency this year, and has the potential to create another post-2000 record."     FREE AppDownload
Monday through Thursday at the Monarch Room in New York City, executive chef Michael Citarella prepares his off-the-menu burger, the Monarch Burger. It's 8 ounces of all-natural, ultra-premium beef ground from a single steer with a 20% fat ratio. It's served on a toasted caraway-seeded bun with aged cheddar, bibb lettuce, beefsteak tomatoes, and Monarch's special sauce. We visited Michael's kitchen, where he showed us how to make the juiciest burger right in your own home.  Produced by Sam Rega. Additional camera by Justin Gmoser. Follow BI Video: On Twitter
Michael Seto/Business InsiderMark Cuban.You are what you read, and if your goal is to build a massively successful company where you call the shots, you might want to start with the following books. We asked wildly successful entrepreneurs and VCs, including Mark Cuban and Peter Thiel, for their top book recommendation. Here's what they said.  Bianca Male, Aimee Groth, and Alison Griswold contributed to this article. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersShoppers are relflected in a window display at The Plaza, King of Prussia Mall, United State's largest retail shopping space, in King of PrussiaBy Nandita Bose and Samantha Sunne CHICAGO/NEW YORK (Reuters) - Shoppers filled up malls and department stores on the last weekend before Christmas, as the weather cooperated to help raise the prospect of a solid finish to a holiday season that has so far produced mixed results. Crowds were building at stores in and around New York, Philadelphia, Chicago and Los Angeles by midday on Saturday. Some shoppers said they were drawn by the discounts, which have been deeper and lasted longer this year. Others said they felt more inclined to spend because of lower prices at the gas pumps. Alexis Layne, a 53-year-old retired schoolteacher shopping at a mall in downtown Chicago, said she usually buys only "fun stuff like accessories" the weekend before Christmas but had made a few impulse buys like two Lacoste T-shirts for her husband because the deals were too good to pass up. Ramesh Swamy, a retail analyst at Deloitte, said retailers were anticipating a strong weekend of sales. One of the malls he visited in the Los Angeles area was preparing overflow parking spaces, and he saw some retailers restocking shelves. "I think folks are willing to open up their purse a little bit more this year," he said, pointing to lower gas prices and solid corporate profits as supporting factors. "It should be a pretty good day." Retailers are banking on big sales this weekend to help make up for a spotty performance so far, including a disappointing "Black Friday," the day after Thanksgiving that typically ranks as the busiest shopping day of the year. ShopperTrak, which surveys traffic at bricks-and-mortar stores, expects today - called "Super Saturday" by retailers because of its importance to sales - to surpass Black Friday as the top revenue-generating day of 2014. According to the National Retail Federation, retail sales rose an unadjusted 3.2 percent in November, trending below its holiday forecast for 4.1 percent during November and December combined. Its chief economist said the forecast was still achievable, with a strong December to pick up the slack. Aside from pockets of rain in Georgia and South Carolina and parts of the Pacific Northwest, weather conditions were generally good with temperatures cold enough in the East to spur  sales of sweaters and other winter goods, said Evan Gold, a senior vice president at Planalytics, which advises companies on how weather conditions impact business. "I think it should be a strong day," he said. JC Penney's flagship store in Manhattan was starting to fill up by midday, after a slow start. Annette Rozzo was one of three shoppers waiting when the doors opened at 7 a.m. With a coupon for 60 percent off clothing, she purchased six sets of pajamas and said she was planning to pick up toys from the Disney movie "Frozen" for the kids. The deals were better than 2013, she said, and she would "definitely" spend more than last year. Some analysts have warned that retailers are pushing sales at the expense of margins. Many launched deep discounts right after Halloween and have kept them all the way through. Price cuts for apparel have been especially steep. Emma Clement, 37, said she felt she was still getting great deals even though she left the bulk of her holiday shopping to the final weekend as she was busy traveling for work. "Have you seen some of the deals today? They are hard to beat," she said after seeing discounts of up to 70 percent on designer clothing at a Macy's in the Chicago area mall. "Most stores are offering over 50 percent off."  (reporting by Samantha Sunne in New York; Nandita Bose and Nathan Layne in Chicago; editing by Gunna Dickson) FREE AppDownload
You don't have to finish the bottle just so it won't go bad. These three devices will help you keep your wine 'fresh' for a few days longer. Thanks to Town &amp; Country Magazine. Produced by Matthew Stuart  Follow BI Video: On Facebook
JP Morgan FundsThe earlier you begin saving, the better off you'll be. Today, it's increasingly become the responsibility of the worker to put money away for retirement in the form of a 401(k) plan or an IRA — that is, a defined-contribution plan. The goal of this post is not to explain the mechanics of retirement plans. Rather, we want to show you the importance of beginning to save sooner rather than later. It all comes down to one elementary mathematical principle: compound interest. Compound interest occurs when the interest that accrues to an amount of money in turn accrues interest itself. It's the deceivingly simple force that causes wealth to rapidly snowball. This is why it's the concept that is at the core of all finance. The folks at JPMorgan Asset Management demonstrate the true power of compound interest in their 2014 "Guide to Retirement." Their example consists of three people who experience the same annual return on their retirement funds: Intuitively, it makes sense that Chris would end up with the most money. But the amount he has saved is astronomically larger than the amounts saved by Susan or Bill. Interestingly, Susan, who saved for just 10 years, has more wealth than Bill, who saved for 30 years. That discrepancy is explained by compound interest. You see, all of the investment returns that Susan earned in her 10 years of saving are snowballing — big time. Those returns accrue to the point that Bill can't catch up, even if he saves for an additional 20 years. Of course, if Susan saved like Chris ... well, if you haven't noticed, Chris' savings are equal to the savings of Bill and Susan combined. The longer you wait to start saving for retirement, the more you miss out on the benefits of the incredible power of compound interest. Here's the chart, in slide form, from JP Morgan Asset Management. JP Morgan Asset Management     
AP ImagesFresh off the biggest IPO in history, Alibaba founder and chairman Jack Ma is now the richest person in China. Ma made more money that anyone else in the world this year. His wealth grew by $18.5 billion between December 2013 and December 2014, a whopping 173% increase. He's now worth an estimated $29.2 billion, which includes his 7.8% stake in Alibaba and a nearly 50% stake in payment processing service Alipay.  Ma's is a true rags-to-riches story. He grew up poor in communist China, failed his college entrance exam twice, and was rejected from dozens of jobs, including one at KFC, before finding success with his third internet company, Alibaba.  FREE AppDownload
Azad Lashkari/ReutersIraqi Kurdish Minister for Natural Resources Ashti Hawrami speaks during a news conference in Arbil, about 350 km (217 miles) north of Baghdad February 7, 2013. Few oilmen attract as much interest when they visit the UK as Ashti Hawrami. As minister of natural resources for the Kurdistan Regional Government (KRG) he is in charge of opening up one of the world’s last great onshore frontiers for major exploration. Kurdistan - the semi-autonomous enclave of northern Iraq - excites international oil companies such as Chevron and Tony Hayward’s Genel Energy, because of its vast untapped resources and the attractive contractual terms the authorities are willing to offer to bring in vital foreign investment. “We actually have a contractual model similar to most of the world, it’s just different from the one used in Iraq,” Mr Hawrami told The Sunday Telegraph. “Iraq has a type of oil contract that you only find in Iran and Venezuela, whereas our model is similar to that for the North Sea, for example, based on a shared risk and reward structure. For the newer projects involving exploration and for fields not yet in production, I have no doubt in my mind that the model we have is far better suited to attracting investment.” Mr Hawrami met the UK energy minister Matthew Hancock briefly last week and sees Britain as a key partner for Kurdistan’s burgeoning oil industry. However, his close links with the UK, where he worked as an oil engineer in the North Sea in the 1970s, have also come with some controversy. In 2013 he was cited in evidence used in an insider trading case brought against the high profile City banker Ian Hannam in relation to shares Mr Hawrami bought in Heritage Oil - a client of Mr Hannam at the time. However, Mr Hawrami denied wrongdoing and the then Financial Services Authority found he had broken no rules. In a decade, Kurdistan has gone from being a very high-risk bet to a potential powerhouse with reserves estimated at 45bn barrels and an industry close to producing 1m barrels per day (bpd) of crude in a few years. Essam Al-Sudani/ReutersA worker walks at the Nahr Bin Umar field, north of Basra, southeast of Baghdad, November 16, 2014. Such is the success of Kurdistan’s efforts to lock in foreign investment that Mr Hawrami expects the federal government in Baghdad to soon follow its example and reform its own oil contract terms. Mr Hawrami believes that Iraq’s oil ministry, unlike the KRG, doesn’t currently provide terms that allow international oil companies to significantly benefit from increasing production and efficiency and instead ties operators to fixed fee structures. “The contracts they (Baghdad) have signed need some amendments in a positive way between the contractors and the government,” says Mr Hawrami. Recently, KRG ended a long-running dispute with Baghdad over the sale of crude from its fields and the distribution of federal budget revenues. The legal battle had forced KRG to borrow billions of dollars to cover the shortfall in its domestic budget and delay payments to international oil operators. But a new deal reached earlier this month will see the KRG send 250,000 bpd to Baghdad to sell, and export a further 300,000 bpd from its northern pipeline, in return for a share of the federal budget. The KRG will also be allowed to sell any additional barrels it pumps via its main export route to Ceyhan in Turkey. According to Mr Hawrami, the agreement will enable Kurdistan to reach 1m bpd of production by 2016 and raise Iraq’s overall export levels to the second highest in the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (Opec), behind Saudi Arabia. ReutersMap of Iraq's oil infrastructure locating oilfields, pipelines and refineries, with overlay of areas of Islamic State control as of October. “We hope that with the right policies and the right coordination throughout the country we will get Iraq to that number two position in the shortest period of time,” says Mr Hawrami. “In the medium term, we expect to reach 1m bpd. A small amount of that we will consume but the rest will be available for export from 2015. In the longer term we do have more difficult oil, which is heavier and requires better technology, such as horizontal drilling and different pipeline structures. We’re looking at 2019 when production can be enhanced substantially above the level of 1m barrels.” Up to this point, most of the investment in Kurdistan has gone into the search for oil, but this is soon expected to change. The agreement with the federal government will also enable Erbil to begin repaying the $7bn (£4.48bn) that it was forced to borrow to cover its own budget shortfalls during its dispute with Baghdad and catch up with payments owed to international oil companies. “So far we have been just in the exploration phase, so the money going into finding the oil and gas is approaching $20bn now. “Exploration is just a small part of the expense, when you find oil you have got to develop the wells, facilities and pipelines, so the expenditure increases substantially. We are now at that phase when we need infrastructure and facilities to handle the oil. More money will be needed to realise our full export potential,” says Mr Hawrami. Of course, the big uncertainties hanging over the oil industry’s further development in Kurdistan at present are the falling price of crude on world markets and the threat posed by militants from the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (Isil, also known as Islamic State and Isis) on the region’s borders. However, Mr Hawrami believes that the current situation with oil trading at around $60 per barrel is ultimately unsustainable and more about “politics” than the fundamental principles of supply and demand. “Separating oil from politics is always difficult,” he says. “The oil price is not sustainable because the world has too many expensive projects and once you take them off the design stage it is difficult to come back to those schemes quickly. It will cause permanent damage to delay certain projects, in which case the oil price goes back up. It is not in anybody’s interest to play this game, but part of it is also supply and demand. But it does have some politics attached to it.” Much of the political intrigue Mr Hawrami hints at is being played out between Saudi Arabia and its rivals, led by Iran, with Opec the cartel that controls about a third of global oil supply. “Iraq is very concerned. We all agree that we want to see higher prices. Iraq still needs to rebuild security and its own infrastructure. For the last 20 years, or maybe longer, Iraq has never realised its full potential to sell oil on to international markets because wars, whether internal or external, have always held it back and it’s unfortunate that we might have to cut oil along with other producers who have possibly benefited through these times,” says Mr Hawrami. Although, he argues that the oil industry generally needs to be depoliticised, he also suggests that energy can provide positive outcomes, which bring former rivals closer together. “Politics is always associated with big economic decisions involving natural resources, which is a problem,” he says. “But it also has some positives. For example, if you look at Kurdistan’s relationship with Turkey, five years ago it was a completely different thing. We had hostility – almost threats, both ways. But when our oil was found we ended up talking and the politics was put aside and the economy took over. “Our biggest partner in Kurdistan is now Turkey, with $10bn of trade, which is not insignificant. Now they are also helping us to fight terrorism as well as exporting our oil. If someone had said this five years ago we would not have believed it. The economic benefits for both countries overcame the prejudices.” Earlier this year, authorities in Erbil were shaken by the dramatic rise of Isil, which captured Mosul and at one stage looked to be preparing to push deeper into Kurdistan. They have since been checked by Kurdish fighters known as Peshmerga, supported by British and US air strikes. “We highly appreciate the role of the UK and other allies who came in with logistical support and later with training and military support,” says Mr Hawrami. “I think we need more, but it has helped us to get organised to deal with the threat of Isis [Isil]. They have been pushed back, but we still have unfinished business with respect to the threat to the rest of Iraq and the region overall. It is in everyone’s interest to beat them, otherwise they are a disease that will affect not just stability in the region but also the free world.” Mr Hawrami also warns terrorists fighting under the banner of Isil returning to the UK and Europe. “They are completely brainwashed and they carry with them danger, whether they come back home to Britain, or stay in the region. They need to be beaten and there needs to be security coordination and cooperation to do this.”  FREE AppDownload
RBC Despite Saudi Arabia's huge reserves, RBC writes that "a policy of keeping prices low for the prolonged period needed to put US shale producers out of business would essentially eliminate the country's reserves. According to the International Monetary Fund, if oil prices fall $25 below the Fund's $100-$105 reference case, with no spending adjustment, Saudi government reserves will be entirely depleted by 2018." If the Saudis are screwed by 2018, every other country on this list that relies heavily on oil revenue to balance its budget is probably going to see reserves depleted before then.    FREE AppDownload
A new tech bubble seems to be inflating. But when it pops, it should cause less damage than the dotcom crash of 2000.In December 15 years ago the dotcom crash was a few weeks away. Veterans of that fiasco may notice some familiar warning signs this festive season. Bankers and lawyers are being priced out of office space in downtown San Francisco; all of the space in eight tower blocks being built has been taken by technology firms.  In 2013 around a fifth of graduates from America's leading MBA schools joined tech firms, almost double the share that struck Faustian pacts with investment banks.  Janet Yellen, the head of the Federal Reserve, has warned that social-media firms are overvalued--and has been largely ignored, just as her predecessor Alan Greenspan was when he urged caution in 1999. Good corporate governance is, once again, for wimps. Shares in Alibaba, a Chinese internet giant that listed in New York in September using a Byzantine legal structure, have risen by 58%. Executives at startups, such as Uber, a taxi-hailing service, exhibit a mighty hubris. Yet judged by the financial yardsticks of the dotcom era there is as yet no bubble. The NASDAQ index of mainly technology stocks is valued at 23 times expected earnings versus over 100 times in 2000. That year Barron's, an investment magazine, published an analysis showing that 51 listed technology firms would run out of cash within a year. On December 6th Barron's repeated the exercise and found only five listed tech firms with wobbly finances. Instead, today's financial excess is hidden partly out of sight in two areas: inside big tech firms such as Amazon and Google, which are spending epic sums on warehouses, offices, people, machinery and buying other firms; and on the booming private markets where venture capital (VC) outfits and others trade stakes in young technology firms. GlassdoorGoogle employees. Take the spending boom by the big, listed tech firms first. It is exemplified by Facebook, which said in October that its operating costs would rise in 2015 by 55-75%, far ahead of its expected sales growth. Forget lean outfits run by skinny entrepreneurs: Silicon Valley's icons are now among the world's biggest, flabbiest investors. Together, Apple, Amazon, Facebook, Google and Twitter invested $66 billion in the past 12 months. This figure includes capital spending, research and development, fixed assets acquired with leases and cash used for acquisitions. via The Economist That is eight times what they invested in 2009. It is double the amount invested by the VC industry. If you exclude Apple, investments ate up most of the cashflow the firms generated. Together these five tech firms now invest more than any single company in the world: more than such energy Leviathans as Gazprom, PetroChina and Exxon, which each invest about $40 billion-50 billion a year. The five firms together own $60 billion of property and equipment, almost as much as General Electric. They employ just over 300,000 people.  Google says it is determined to keep "investing ahead of the curve". Big firms are also making speculative bets, to add new products and insure themselves against technological change. Amazon is investing in content and recently acquired Twitch, a video-streaming firm. Google is throwing cash at driverless cars, robots and home thermostats. Facebook has acquired Oculus VR, a maker of virtual-reality headsets. Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook's boss, has said that it will not have an immediate payback: "It's going to take a bunch of years to get there." Adnan Abidi/ReutersMark Zuckerberg What are the odds of all this money being spent sensibly? Apple is still tremendously profitable. The other firms have patchier records. Google's return on capital has halved to about 20%, after accounting for stock-option costs. Amazon has never generated much cash. The longer-term omens are not good. Few firms learn how to create a framework for spending tens of billions of dollars almost overnight. When previous champions, such as Nokia, Yahoo and Microsoft, made big acquisitions in adjacent areas they often fared badly. There are few obvious sources of restraint at those firms still dominated by powerful leaders who control their companies: Google, Facebook and Amazon. All five of today's stars have lots of excess cash. Much of this is parked offshore and cannot be brought home without incurring tax, giving an extra incentive to spend it. The second area of technology froth is in private markets. Their exuberance was demonstrated on December 4th when Uber closed a $1.2 billion private funding round that valued the five-year old firm at $40 billion. Baidu, China's biggest search engine, is set to buy a stake, too. There are 48 American VC-backed firms worth $1 billion or more, compared with ten at the height of the dotcom bubble, according to VentureSource, a research outfit. In October a software firm called Slack was valued at $1.1 billion, a year after being founded. 2014 looks set to be the biggest year for VC investments since 2000. TENGKU BAHAR/AFP/Getty ImagesPart of what is happening is a shift away from stockmarkets. Entrepreneurs are keen to avoid the bureaucracy involved in initial public offerings. They now have alternative ways to raise cash and to award tradable shares to staff. More institutional investors are buying into private technology firms, alongside VC funds. Unlike in 2000 the firms they invest in already have scale. Uber's gross sales, of which it keeps about 20%, are expected to hit a run rate of $10 billion by late 2015. But with many investors chasing a few firms, VC gurus are worried about frothy valuations. The best-known of these, Marc Andreessen, has said valuations are getting "a little warm", and called for discipline. A banker warns that successful funds' recent run of profitable exits is encouraging them to take "lottery ticket" bets. Among the most recent tech firms to debut on stockmarkets with huge share-price "pops" are Lending Club, a peer-to-peer lending platform, and New Relic and Hortonworks, two "big data" software firms. The sins of big, listed tech firms and younger, private ones will be forgiven if their growth continues at a blistering pace for several years: so far there is no clear sign of deceleration. But if these firms do slow down before then, the present investment boom will look like a horrible mistake for the firms and investors that financed it. For society, though, there is little to fret about. As in 1999-2000, startups and tech giants are creating jobs and investing in new technologies and infrastructure that boost long-term economic growth. But this time round a slump would be unlikely to lead to a broader contagion, since it would be confined to private markets and a few large firms with strong balance-sheets. Silicon Valley still does vanity, bubbles, genius and excess. But when it comes to causing crashes, it has learned to be less evil. Click here to subscribe to The Economist FREE AppDownload
A new tech bubble seems to be inflating. But when it pops, it should cause less damage than the dotcom crash of 2000.In December 15 years ago the dotcom crash was a few weeks away. Veterans of that fiasco may notice some familiar warning signs this festive season. Bankers and lawyers are being priced out of office space in downtown San Francisco; all of the space in eight tower blocks being built has been taken by technology firms.  In 2013 around a fifth of graduates from America's leading MBA schools joined tech firms, almost double the share that struck Faustian pacts with investment banks.  Janet Yellen, the head of the Federal Reserve, has warned that social-media firms are overvalued--and has been largely ignored, just as her predecessor Alan Greenspan was when he urged caution in 1999. Good corporate governance is, once again, for wimps. Shares in Alibaba, a Chinese internet giant that listed in New York in September using a Byzantine legal structure, have risen by 58%. Executives at startups, such as Uber, a taxi-hailing service, exhibit a mighty hubris. Yet judged by the financial yardsticks of the dotcom era there is as yet no bubble. The NASDAQ index of mainly technology stocks is valued at 23 times expected earnings versus over 100 times in 2000. That year Barron's, an investment magazine, published an analysis showing that 51 listed technology firms would run out of cash within a year. On December 6th Barron's repeated the exercise and found only five listed tech firms with wobbly finances. Instead, today's financial excess is hidden partly out of sight in two areas: inside big tech firms such as Amazon and Google, which are spending epic sums on warehouses, offices, people, machinery and buying other firms; and on the booming private markets where venture capital (VC) outfits and others trade stakes in young technology firms. GlassdoorGoogle employees. Take the spending boom by the big, listed tech firms first. It is exemplified by Facebook, which said in October that its operating costs would rise in 2015 by 55-75%, far ahead of its expected sales growth. Forget lean outfits run by skinny entrepreneurs: Silicon Valley's icons are now among the world's biggest, flabbiest investors. Together, Apple, Amazon, Facebook, Google and Twitter invested $66 billion in the past 12 months. This figure includes capital spending, research and development, fixed assets acquired with leases and cash used for acquisitions. via The Economist That is eight times what they invested in 2009. It is double the amount invested by the VC industry. If you exclude Apple, investments ate up most of the cashflow the firms generated. Together these five tech firms now invest more than any single company in the world: more than such energy Leviathans as Gazprom, PetroChina and Exxon, which each invest about $40 billion-50 billion a year. The five firms together own $60 billion of property and equipment, almost as much as General Electric. They employ just over 300,000 people.  Google says it is determined to keep "investing ahead of the curve". Big firms are also making speculative bets, to add new products and insure themselves against technological change. Amazon is investing in content and recently acquired Twitch, a video-streaming firm. Google is throwing cash at driverless cars, robots and home thermostats. Facebook has acquired Oculus VR, a maker of virtual-reality headsets. Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook's boss, has said that it will not have an immediate payback: "It's going to take a bunch of years to get there." Adnan Abidi/ReutersMark Zuckerberg What are the odds of all this money being spent sensibly? Apple is still tremendously profitable. The other firms have patchier records. Google's return on capital has halved to about 20%, after accounting for stock-option costs. Amazon has never generated much cash. The longer-term omens are not good. Few firms learn how to create a framework for spending tens of billions of dollars almost overnight. When previous champions, such as Nokia, Yahoo and Microsoft, made big acquisitions in adjacent areas they often fared badly. There are few obvious sources of restraint at those firms still dominated by powerful leaders who control their companies: Google, Facebook and Amazon. All five of today's stars have lots of excess cash. Much of this is parked offshore and cannot be brought home without incurring tax, giving an extra incentive to spend it. The second area of technology froth is in private markets. Their exuberance was demonstrated on December 4th when Uber closed a $1.2 billion private funding round that valued the five-year old firm at $40 billion. Baidu, China's biggest search engine, is set to buy a stake, too. There are 48 American VC-backed firms worth $1 billion or more, compared with ten at the height of the dotcom bubble, according to VentureSource, a research outfit. In October a software firm called Slack was valued at $1.1 billion, a year after being founded. 2014 looks set to be the biggest year for VC investments since 2000. TENGKU BAHAR/AFP/Getty ImagesPart of what is happening is a shift away from stockmarkets. Entrepreneurs are keen to avoid the bureaucracy involved in initial public offerings. They now have alternative ways to raise cash and to award tradable shares to staff. More institutional investors are buying into private technology firms, alongside VC funds. Unlike in 2000 the firms they invest in already have scale. Uber's gross sales, of which it keeps about 20%, are expected to hit a run rate of $10 billion by late 2015. But with many investors chasing a few firms, VC gurus are worried about frothy valuations. The best-known of these, Marc Andreessen, has said valuations are getting "a little warm", and called for discipline. A banker warns that successful funds' recent run of profitable exits is encouraging them to take "lottery ticket" bets. Among the most recent tech firms to debut on stockmarkets with huge share-price "pops" are Lending Club, a peer-to-peer lending platform, and New Relic and Hortonworks, two "big data" software firms. The sins of big, listed tech firms and younger, private ones will be forgiven if their growth continues at a blistering pace for several years: so far there is no clear sign of deceleration. But if these firms do slow down before then, the present investment boom will look like a horrible mistake for the firms and investors that financed it. For society, though, there is little to fret about. As in 1999-2000, startups and tech giants are creating jobs and investing in new technologies and infrastructure that boost long-term economic growth. But this time round a slump would be unlikely to lead to a broader contagion, since it would be confined to private markets and a few large firms with strong balance-sheets. Silicon Valley still does vanity, bubbles, genius and excess. But when it comes to causing crashes, it has learned to be less evil. Click here to subscribe to The Economist FREE AppDownload
Marcio Jose Sanchez/APApple CEO Tim Cook came out.2014 gave us lots of reasons to smile, from the infamous Oscar selfie to the inescapable Ice Bucket Challenge. It was a year for standing up for what you believe in, setting records, and making a meme of everything. Before we "Let It Go," let's take a look at the year's highlights in entertainment, tech, business, science, and world news. FREE AppDownload
You can't rely entirely on your lucky game piece if you want to demolish your friends and family members in a game of Monopoly.  Here are a few math-based game tricks that you can take straight to the bank.  Produced by Alex Kuzoian. Narrated by Sara Silverstein. Special thanks to Walter Hickey. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Thomson ReutersThe sign in the lobby of the corporate headquarters of Dish Network is seen in the Denver suburb of EnglewoodWASHINGTON (Reuters) - Satellite TV provider DISH Network Corp  and Comcast Corp's  SportsNet have reached a deal allowing the cable giant's regional sports networks to remain on-air for DISH subscribers, DISH said on Saturday. The two pay-TV companies have been in negotiations over whether DISH would drop Comcast's regional sports network, threatening access to televised games for satellite-TV customers in the Chicago, San Francisco and Washington areas. "DISH has reached a multi-year agreement for carriage of Comcast SportsNet Bay Area, California, Chicago and Mid-Atlantic," the satellite provider said in a statement. The company did not disclose terms of the agreement. Comcast SportsNet is part of Comcast-owned NBCUniversal, and DISH must pay fees in order to carry it. DISH has blamed increased fees in the dispute and said most of its customers do not watch NBC's sports channels. DISH has roughly 14 million subscribers, according to the company. A Comcast spokesman referred a request for comment to representatives for NBCUniversal, which did not immediately respond.  (Reporting by Susan Heavey; Additional reporting by Lisa Richwine; Editing by Stephen Powell) FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVWendy's CEO Emil Brolick.   FREE AppDownload
Barbara Corcoran and the rest of the "Shark Tank" cast have spent several seasons listening to investment opportunities on the hit show. We gave Barbara a chance to create her perfect cast and tell us what's the one investment she regrets missing on the show.  Produced by Sam Rega Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Bruce Rauner, a Republican, liked to talk tough about unions and public-sector pensions when he was campaigning for governor in Illinois.  "The system is full of fraud and self-dealing and abuses, such as folks who have a pay rise in the last years of their career [so their pension is higher] or folks who moved in and out of certain jobs, so they could get a pension," he said in August 2013.  With two or three pensions, some are making as much as half a million dollars in retirement pay, he claimed. This, he thundered, is a rip-off of taxpayers and other workers. But as soon as Mr Rauner was elected last month, the self-made millionaire toned down the rhetoric. The size and complexity of the public-pension mess suddenly hit him, and, aware that he had to bring together Democrats, unions and creditors, he began to backtrack. He declares now that it is most important to "protect what is done--don't change history. Don't modify or reduce anybody's pension who has retired, or has paid into a system and they've accrued benefits." Illinois is like Greece in one obvious way: it overpromised and underdelivered on pensions and has little appetite for dealing with the problem, says Hal Weitzman of the University of Chicago Booth School of Business. This large Midwestern state, with a population of 13m (Greece has 11m, though a far smaller GDP than Illinois), has the most underfunded retirement system of any state and the largest pension burden relative to state revenue. It also has the highest number of public-pension funds close to insolvency, such as the one looking after Chicago's police and firemen. According to the Civic Federation, a budget watchdog, Illinois has piled up a whopping $111 billion in unfunded pension liabilities (see chart), in addition to $56 billion in debt for health benefits for pensioners. The state devotes one in four of its tax dollars to pensions, which is more than it spends on primary and secondary education. Jim Young/ReutersRepublican Bruce Rauner gives a thumbs-up after winning the midterm elections in Chicago, Illinois, November 4, 2014. Mainly as a result of this gargantuan pension debt, Illinois's bond rating is the lowest of all the states, which means dramatically higher borrowing costs. When the state government failed to address pension underfunding in its budget for 2014, two credit-rating agencies, Fitch and Moody's, cut the state's bond rating, which in Moody's case put Illinois on a par with Botswana. (An incensed editorial in the Chicago Tribune asked what Botswana had done to be so insulted.) The main reason for the pension debacle is decades of underfunding. "Everything was always done with a short-term view," says Laurence Msall, head of the Civic Federation. "Unique to Illinois is the idea that you don't have to pay for pensions and you don't have to follow actuarial recommendations." Whereas most other states follow the rules set by the Governmental Accounting Standards Board (GASB), which, however imperfect, require some budget discipline, Illinois has mostly ignored them. In 2013 the state paid $2.8 billion into its pension fund for teachers, one of its five pension funds, but GASB rules would have required a contribution of $3.6 billion, says Joshua Rauh, a professor of finance at Stanford University. According to Mr Rauh's calculations, Illinois's true unfunded pension liability is $250 billion. All the other calculations, he says, are based on over-optimistic assumptions. For example, the state assumes an average annual return on its investments of 7.75% over 30 years. But according to Mr Rauh it has only a 25% chance of achieving gains of that order. After the public-relations disaster of the credit downgrades, Pat Quinn, the outgoing governor belatedly pushed for pension reform. In December 2013 the legislature approved a bill that reduces annual increases in pension payments, increases the retirement age and caps pensionable salaries. Some have welcomed it as Illinois's first actuarially sound pension-funding scheme, designed to get the five plans fully funded in 30 years. Mr Rauh, however, thinks that the reform "does not even come close to addressing the problem". M. Spencer Green/APOutgoing Illinois governor Pat Quinn. Mr Quinn's changes were supposed to become law in June, but were held up by legal challenges and ultimately rejected by Judge John Belz of the Sangamon County circuit court for violating the state constitution, which makes existing pension contracts virtually untouchable. (Only New York and Arizona have similar safeguards in their constitutions.) Lisa Madigan, the state attorney-general, has appealed against the ruling to the Illinois Supreme Court, which is looking at the case. James Spiotto, a lawyer at Chapman Strategic Advisors, argues that if a state is unable rather than unwilling to pay its pensions, then the well-being of its citizens overrides any constitutional protections. The Supreme Court has consistently ruled that states cannot abdicate their responsibility to provide essential services and infrastructure. And if Illinois cuts public services yet further the state will lose more taxpayers, resulting in "a death spiral", says Mr Spiotto. Union representatives disagree with this scenario. Dan Montgomery, the president of the Illinois Federation of Teachers, believes Mr Quinn's reform is illegal and that the state must find ways to pay up, for instance by extending the repayment schedule of its debt and increasing tax revenue by closing loopholes and expanding a sales tax on services. Mr Rauner was elected on a promise that he would not make his predecessor's temporary increase of income and corporate tax permanent. But he has not explained how Illinois will cope with the loss of more than $7 billion in annual revenue. Nor has he laid out any broader plans for fixing the pensions mess. For a start he might look to Washington and the budget deal hashed out in Congress. This allows some distressed private-sector pension plans to cut the benefits of retirees. In Illinois, though, more inventive measures may be needed. In 2015 Illinois will either sink further into a Greek-style morass of debt or start its long-delayed rehabilitation. Mr Rauner has warned of a rough 24 months ahead. "I ain't going to be Mr Popularity for a while," he says. Voters may not mind, if he is able to sort this disaster out. FREE AppDownload
Bruce Rauner, a Republican, liked to talk tough about unions and public-sector pensions when he was campaigning for governor in Illinois.  "The system is full of fraud and self-dealing and abuses, such as folks who have a pay rise in the last years of their career [so their pension is higher] or folks who moved in and out of certain jobs, so they could get a pension," he said in August 2013.  With two or three pensions, some are making as much as half a million dollars in retirement pay, he claimed. This, he thundered, is a rip-off of taxpayers and other workers. But as soon as Mr Rauner was elected last month, the self-made millionaire toned down the rhetoric. The size and complexity of the public-pension mess suddenly hit him, and, aware that he had to bring together Democrats, unions and creditors, he began to backtrack. He declares now that it is most important to "protect what is done--don't change history. Don't modify or reduce anybody's pension who has retired, or has paid into a system and they've accrued benefits." Illinois is like Greece in one obvious way: it overpromised and underdelivered on pensions and has little appetite for dealing with the problem, says Hal Weitzman of the University of Chicago Booth School of Business. This large Midwestern state, with a population of 13m (Greece has 11m, though a far smaller GDP than Illinois), has the most underfunded retirement system of any state and the largest pension burden relative to state revenue. It also has the highest number of public-pension funds close to insolvency, such as the one looking after Chicago's police and firemen. According to the Civic Federation, a budget watchdog, Illinois has piled up a whopping $111 billion in unfunded pension liabilities (see chart), in addition to $56 billion in debt for health benefits for pensioners. The state devotes one in four of its tax dollars to pensions, which is more than it spends on primary and secondary education. Jim Young/ReutersRepublican Bruce Rauner gives a thumbs-up after winning the midterm elections in Chicago, Illinois, November 4, 2014. Mainly as a result of this gargantuan pension debt, Illinois's bond rating is the lowest of all the states, which means dramatically higher borrowing costs. When the state government failed to address pension underfunding in its budget for 2014, two credit-rating agencies, Fitch and Moody's, cut the state's bond rating, which in Moody's case put Illinois on a par with Botswana. (An incensed editorial in the Chicago Tribune asked what Botswana had done to be so insulted.) The main reason for the pension debacle is decades of underfunding. "Everything was always done with a short-term view," says Laurence Msall, head of the Civic Federation. "Unique to Illinois is the idea that you don't have to pay for pensions and you don't have to follow actuarial recommendations." Whereas most other states follow the rules set by the Governmental Accounting Standards Board (GASB), which, however imperfect, require some budget discipline, Illinois has mostly ignored them. In 2013 the state paid $2.8 billion into its pension fund for teachers, one of its five pension funds, but GASB rules would have required a contribution of $3.6 billion, says Joshua Rauh, a professor of finance at Stanford University. According to Mr Rauh's calculations, Illinois's true unfunded pension liability is $250 billion. All the other calculations, he says, are based on over-optimistic assumptions. For example, the state assumes an average annual return on its investments of 7.75% over 30 years. But according to Mr Rauh it has only a 25% chance of achieving gains of that order. After the public-relations disaster of the credit downgrades, Pat Quinn, the outgoing governor belatedly pushed for pension reform. In December 2013 the legislature approved a bill that reduces annual increases in pension payments, increases the retirement age and caps pensionable salaries. Some have welcomed it as Illinois's first actuarially sound pension-funding scheme, designed to get the five plans fully funded in 30 years. Mr Rauh, however, thinks that the reform "does not even come close to addressing the problem". M. Spencer Green/APOutgoing Illinois governor Pat Quinn. Mr Quinn's changes were supposed to become law in June, but were held up by legal challenges and ultimately rejected by Judge John Belz of the Sangamon County circuit court for violating the state constitution, which makes existing pension contracts virtually untouchable. (Only New York and Arizona have similar safeguards in their constitutions.) Lisa Madigan, the state attorney-general, has appealed against the ruling to the Illinois Supreme Court, which is looking at the case. James Spiotto, a lawyer at Chapman Strategic Advisors, argues that if a state is unable rather than unwilling to pay its pensions, then the well-being of its citizens overrides any constitutional protections. The Supreme Court has consistently ruled that states cannot abdicate their responsibility to provide essential services and infrastructure. And if Illinois cuts public services yet further the state will lose more taxpayers, resulting in "a death spiral", says Mr Spiotto. Union representatives disagree with this scenario. Dan Montgomery, the president of the Illinois Federation of Teachers, believes Mr Quinn's reform is illegal and that the state must find ways to pay up, for instance by extending the repayment schedule of its debt and increasing tax revenue by closing loopholes and expanding a sales tax on services. Mr Rauner was elected on a promise that he would not make his predecessor's temporary increase of income and corporate tax permanent. But he has not explained how Illinois will cope with the loss of more than $7 billion in annual revenue. Nor has he laid out any broader plans for fixing the pensions mess. For a start he might look to Washington and the budget deal hashed out in Congress. This allows some distressed private-sector pension plans to cut the benefits of retirees. In Illinois, though, more inventive measures may be needed. In 2015 Illinois will either sink further into a Greek-style morass of debt or start its long-delayed rehabilitation. Mr Rauner has warned of a rough 24 months ahead. "I ain't going to be Mr Popularity for a while," he says. Voters may not mind, if he is able to sort this disaster out. FREE AppDownload
We recently looked at the most affluent towns in every U.S. state. Now we're turning our attention to educational achievement. The American Community Survey is an annual survey run by the Census Bureau to allow the government, corporate and academic researchers, and anyone who is curious about demographics to better understand the population of the U.S. Among many other subjects, the ACS includes questions about respondents' education levels. Using the 2008-2012 ACS estimates for places with at least 1,000 population, Business Insider made a map showing, for each state, the town with the highest percentage of adults over 25 who have at least a bachelor's degree: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from 2008-2012 American Community Survey As with the affluent places, a good number of the most educated towns are suburbs of big cities. Many towns showed up on both maps, having both very high median incomes and educational attainment, like Scarsdale, New York, and Chevy Chase, Maryland. Some are college towns, like University Heights, Iowa, and Wellesley, Massachusetts. Indeed, for four states — California, Mississippi, New York, and Pennsylvania — the highest-ranking place was actually a college campus. Since we're focusing on towns, we removed the college campuses from our list. There was a bit more of a population spread for the best-educated places than for the most affluent. Populations ranged from a little over 1,000 (our chosen lower cutoff) in Yarrow Point, Washington, all the way up to Fargo, North Dakota, a city of 106,000.  Here are the 50 towns: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from 2008-2012 American Community Survey   
 At one of my first jobs, I got an annual bonus. I don't remember the numbers.  What I do remember, however, is how surprised I was to see how much less I received than the number I was told at my end-of-year review. Thanks, taxes.  I know I'm not the only one mystified by the case of the missing bonus, so I reached out to Certified Public Accountant Lisa Greene-Lewis of TurboTax to find out why end-of-year bonuses seem to be taxed at such a high rate. It comes down to what's called "supplemental income." Although all of your earned dollars are equal at tax time, when bonuses are issued, they're considered supplemental income by the IRS and held to a higher withholding rate. It's probably that withholding you're noticing on a shrunken bonus check. Employers take taxes from your check in one of two ways: The percentage method. This is the method your employer will use if, like I did, you receive your bonus money in a check separate from your paycheck. Your company simply withholds tax at a flat 25%, to keep things easy on their end.  The aggregate method. This is the method your employer will use if your bonus is added on to a regular paycheck. Your employer will withhold tax from your bonus plus your regular earnings according to what you shared with your employer on your W-4. Because you're receiving more money than usual, your employer will withhold more money than usual. In fact, TurboTax provides a handy calculator that figures out the tax withholding on your bonus using either method, so you can brace yourself ahead of time. Greene-Lewis says that in some cases, depending on your income and tax rate, you might actually get some of this money back in the form of a tax refund. If your bonus is only a few hundred bucks, there isn't much you can do about the taxes. If you'll receive a considerable amount of cash, though, you have a few options. "Maybe you can increase your retirement savings," Greene-Lewis suggests, "or you can donate to your favorite charity and get a deduction there. If you own a home, you can maybe prepay your mortgage and get a bigger deduction, or prepay your property taxes." While none of these options allow you to keep more money from your bonus, they do provide tax breaks that could offset the tax on your bonus. GlassdoorYour bonus minus taxes is still more than no bonus at all. If that's the plan for you, and your bonus is big enough to push you into another tax bracket, you can also ask if your company will defer the payment of your bonus to the new year. This comes in handy if you expect your income to decrease in the new year, or if you expect your deductions to increase substantially enough to offset the taxes — for example, if you're planning to buy a house. While you might think, logically, that employees could be better served tax-wise by gradual bonuses paid over a series of paychecks or by a simple raise that tacks on some extra money year-round, Greene-Lewis says that a company's ability to pay bonuses is determined between the time it finishes up its accounting for the year and when it officially closes its books, and those bonuses have to be paid before that year is closed. Because a company doesn't know how much it can afford to pay until the last possible minute, employees end up getting lump sums. But if you're going to get a lump of anything this holiday season, it might as well be cash.      FREE AppDownload
Jason Lee/ReutersXiaomi CEO Lei Jun introducing the Mi4.Xiaomi has reportedly raised more than $1 billion in its latest round of funding, which brings the valuation of China's biggest smartphone maker to more than $45 billion, The Wall Street Journal reports. The funding round — led by All-Stars Investment, a fund run by former Morgan Stanley analyst Richard Ji — is expected to close as early as Monday.  At $45 billion, Xiaomi would be more valuable than most other Silicon Valley technology startups, including Uber, which just closed a funding round that valued the ride-sharing startup at $41 billion. Xiaomi has made a name for itself in emerging markets thanks to its phones that are highly similar to Apple’s high-end devices but sold at extremely low prices. The company shipped 18 million handsets in its most recent quarter — a whopping year-over-year growth of 239% during that period. The company is the fourth-biggest smartphone maker in the world and the biggest in China. FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Brian KlugVPN (Virtual Private Network) is a technology that allows you to connect to any private network from whenever you have internet access, from corporate networks to public or hotel WiFi. Connecting through a VPN automatically encrypts your data, hiding it from hackers or identity thieves.  It works by creating a secured group of devices that can communicate anonymously across a public network (the Internet). They're a must-have if you use public WiFi, where you are most vulnerable to attack. Check out this article on Medium to see why. Use the tools below (thanks to our friends at Stack Commerce) to protect yourself from hackers looking for your information and identity online.  This 3-year plan of VPN Unlimited means you can surf the web with peace of mind. This plan has unlimited tat usage and works with a high speed connection. It's got severs around the world, too. Get 70% off the VPN Unlimited Premium Plan for 3 Years ($19)   Stack Commerce Similar to VPN Unlimited is TigerVPN. You can use it to anonymously browse on nearly any device. It's more expensive than VPN Unlimited, at $49 for 2 years, but it boasts a 256-bit encryption and no data cap, plus it works in 40 countries. Get 72% off 2 Years of TigerVPN ($49)    Stack Commerce BolehVPN is one of the top VPN providers on the market, using a super secure AES algorithm. Lifehacker praises BolehVPN for the people working behind the scenes, on top of the great technology. To use BolehVPN you need to have an iOS device with OS 6.1 or later, Androids with 4.0 or later, a Mac with 10.6 or above, or a Windows computer that has XP or above. Get 31% off BolehVPN for 2 years ($110).     Disclosure: This post is brought to you by Business Insider's Insider Picks team. We aim to highlight products and services you might find interesting, and if you buy them, we may get a small share of the revenue from the sale. This is not an advertiser sponsored post and we operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback.Have something you think we should know about? Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jim YoungJoshua Birnbaum, the former managing director of structured products group trading for Goldman Sachs. Now he's betting against something else: high-yield bonds. From The Wall Street Journal: Joshua Birnbaum, the ex-Goldman Sachs Group Inc. trader who made bets against subprime mortgages during the financial crisis, now has more than $2 billion in wagers against high-yield bonds at his Tilden Park Capital Management LP hedge-fund firm, according to investor documents. On Monday, The Journal published a big report on the worries facing investors in the junk bond space amid the sharp decline in the price of oil. Bonds tied to the energy sector make up about 15% of the high-yield space.  A few weeks ago, investment adviser Josh Brown wrote: "The question now is whether or not the slide in crude can do enough damage in the high yield market to set off a chain reaction of de-risking, default, and outflows." As The Journal reports, junk bonds this year have returned less than 1% after gains of about 7% last year and 15% in 2012.  On Friday, the effective yield for high-yield bonds closed at multiyear highs, topping 7% and also topping the yield seen during the "taper tantrum" in spring 2013. A rise in bond yields implies that investors are worried about the ability of borrowers to repay their obligations. In the event of a default, those who hold junk bonds are often the first to take a "haircut" (in which they do not get the full value of their investment back). The rise in the yield for junk bonds also comes amid a rally, or decline, in the yield on Treasury bonds, as investors seek safety amid unsettled markets.  Here's the crazy spike in high yield.  FRED   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Maxim ShemetovRussian President Vladimir Putin. Evgeny Gavrilenkov, the chief economist at the investment banking arm of Russia's largest lender Sberbank CIB, has warned that actions taken by the Russian authorities to bail out Russia's troubled banking sector could cause a "full-scale banking crisis". "If the Central Bank of Russia continues to provide refinancing in exchange for non-marketable securities that banks can generate in almost unlimited amounts, the system will gradually ramp up to full-scale banking crisis," Gavrilenkov said. That is, the emergency measures undertaken by the central bank to pump liquidity into the country's banking system in order to prevent widespread defaults could end up coming back to bite it. In essence he thinks that banks may prove unable to pay back loans from the central bank with interest rates now set at 17% and the collateral that they pledge in exchange for it may not be of sufficient quality to cover the losses. He estimates that servicing over 7.3 trillion rubles of debt at current interest rates will cost the banks somewhere in the region of 1.2-1.3 trillion rubles ($20 billion) a year. Last week Russian central bank head Elvira Nabiullina announced that "the Bank of Russia plans to consider the introduction of foreign currency lending on the security of non-marketable assets" is an effort to calm investor fears about the health of the country's banks. However, Gavrilenkov suggests that this move may increase risks in the system rather than alleviate them. Indeed he pointed the finger for the plight of the ruble, which has fallen over 40% this year, squarely at the central bank and the Russian Finance Ministry for "pumping the economy with additional liquidity". In remarks that could be interpreted as highly critical of the government, he also said the unprecedented injections of liquidity had "coincided with a significant increase budget expenditures". There are already clear signs of stress in the banking system. The interbank lending rate, the interest rate that banks charge to lend to each other, jumped to 27.3% yesterday, the highest rate since data started being collected in 2006 according to Bloomberg. The news suggests that confidence in the banking sector is quickly eroding and that banks are becoming concerned with the quality of their peers' balance sheets. Russian Finance Minister Anton Siluanov admitted on Friday that the country's banks have insufficient capital to meet their capital adequacy ratios. Following his remarks Russia's lower house of parliament rushed through a draft law to give the banking sector a capital boost of up to 1 trillion rubles ($16.5 billion), Reuters reports. The bill passed three draft readings in a day, a process that frequently takes weeks to complete, in a sign that the government is concerned about the financial sector. In a note on Thursday Morgan Stanley warned that Russian banks are a major area of concern: "In addition to margin pressures driven by CBR interest rate hikes, risk of corporate default poses an immediate threat to banks’ earnings, in our view. Cost of risk has increased significantly in corporate portfolios over the past nine months and appears likely to accelerate from here." These worries have already led to a significant easing of standards by the central bank. On Thursday it announced that banks would no longer have to mark their assets to market and could use the average exchange rate from the previous quarter to assess how much foreign capital they require to cover foreign-currency denominated debt repayments. In essence, the central bank is allowing the banking sector to indulge in a bit of balance sheet fiction during a time of stress. Bank of RussiaBank of Russia emergency measures for Russian companies. The question, however, is whether current balance sheet stress is predominantly related to the  ruble exchange rate (as in, it is a liquidity problem) or whether the problems are more fundamental (a solvency problem that could lead to default and collapse). As Morgan Stanley puts it, "the Russian banking sector looks to be a risk-absorption buffer between the CBR’s policy and real economy, seemingly poised to bear the brunt of interest rate and depreciation-related adjustment". For the Russian authorities the issue that must now be addressed is to what extent they can differentiate between banks under stress due to temporary factors and fundamentally damaged institutions. Supporting the latter could end up being an extremely costly and ultimately unrewarding enterprise for the Russian state.
Business Insider reader Jim Laird created this animated chart tracking Treasury yield curves compared to the actual yield on a three-month Treasury. The yield curve is a line that plots a set of forward-looking interest rates at a given point in time. A US Treasury yield curve would connect today's yields for three-month, six-month, 12-month, two-year, five-year, one-year, and 30-year Treasury securities. "I wrote a script that figured out the yield curve at every date from 1982 to present and compared the results to the actual yield on a three-month Treasury," Laird said. "Then I turned it into a movie. The red parts are overestimates, the blue are underestimates." An inverted yield curve, when long-term yields are lower than short-term yields, has a long track record of occurring before recessions.   Edited by Matthew Stuart
Jay ButlerJust because the modern gentleman is busy, doesn't mean he isn't thoughtful. A gentleman values those who are close to him, and he knows they deserve the best gifts this holiday season. To help you out, Business Insider has put together a list of elegant, useful items he should get for each person in his life.  Take a look. You can thank us later. FREE AppDownload
 As CEO of the bond insurer Build America Mutual, Séan McCarthy has spent his career employing some of the most competitive people in American business — it comes with the Wall Street territory. In an interview with OneWire CEO Skiddy von Stade, McCarthy explained how he had ended up in executive seats through his career and how he managed the competitive people working under him once he was in them. Early in his career, McCarthy was at E.F. Hutton and Paine Webber working in corporate and public finance. He ultimately went back to E.F. Hutton, where his boss asked him if he would join a new venture, Financial Security Assurance. He became President of the company, and has been in different executive positions since then. This is the concept that has helped him get there: "The first thing, especially on Wall Street, that you have to embrace, is the concept of distinguishing between liking to win and hating to lose," McCarthy said. "Now what I've learned over a long period of time is people who hate to lose are much more effective. Everybody likes to win. But if you hate to lose, you do everything in your power to make sure that experience doesn't happen too often." Of course, you can't stay in the executive seat unless you know how to manage people. McCarthy has a trick for that. "As a manager, the trick is to just make sure that you try to get people into the job that they're naturally good at," he said. "And surprisingly over a long period of time you find that people gravitate towards something that they're not naturally good at because it [becomes] too easy for them. So you'll look at somebody who's very technical and they'll want to be on the sales side … just because what they're naturally good at comes too easily for them." Wall Street is full of people who want to challenge themselves; you want to make sure they're growing but still doing what ismost productive for the company. McCarthy calls this building "all-rounders" — you recognize what people are good at but still build on their weaknesses.  Watch the full OneWire interview above and subscribe to the series to get new interviews as soon as they are posted.   FREE AppDownload
Shutterstock.comFirst-time buyers will make a comeback into the housing market next year. That's according to Realtor.com, which forecasts strength in the US housing market in 2015. "The residual financial effects of recession-driven job losses and subsequent unemployment have impeded millennials' entry into the home-owning market," writes Jonathan Smoke, chief economist for Realtor.com. "In 2015, increases in employment opportunities will empower younger buyers to return to the market and fuel the continued housing recovery." Realtor.com recently released its list of "Top 10 Markets for Housing Growth in 2015." These cities have a great deal of new construction, and their job markets are attractive to young professionals. They range from large metros like Los Angeles, forecast to see increased home sales, to small and affordable cities like Des Moines, Iowa.   FREE AppDownload
 One RBS business analyst just tore Russell Brand a new one. The drug-abusing-playboy-turned-political-activist stormed the London headquarters of the Royal Bank of Scotland last week, confronting any and all employees he could find and demanding to know their salaries. Security quickly locked the doors to prevent his camera crew from entering, and in the process, prevented a number of bank employees from entering or exiting the building. That, according to blogger Joseph Kynaston Reeves, was so uncool that it deserved a proper response. Kynaston Reeves, whose LinkedIn identifies him as an RBS business analyst, penned an open letter to Brand on his personal blog, and berated the multimillionaire celebrity for inconveniencing people who had nothing to do with bank bailouts (and for ruining his lunch). Some gems include: You know what I have in my pocket? A security pass. Unauthorised people aren't allowed in ... That's not a global conspiracy, Russell; it's basic security. On the RBS bailout: The idea was to buy the bank with public money, wait until it became profitable again, then resell it ... In other words, the taxpayer will make a profit on this deal. And on the general disruption of the publicity stunt: Who did you inconvenience on Friday? ... How about some of the millionaire traders you despise so much (some of whom are nearly as rich as you, Russell)? Well, no, because you got the wrong f----ng building. You can read the full letter here.        FREE AppDownload
China's insatiable appetite for pork is a symbol of the country's rise. It is also a danger to the world PIG number 5422 saunters into the pen, circles its few square metres and mounts a plastic stand. The farmer cleans the animal's underside, feels around and draws out what appears to be a thin pink tube around 30cm long. He begins to massage. Pigs elsewhere snort, grunt or squeal, but the alpha pig is unmoved. Soon he has filled a thermal cup with more than 60 billion sperm. Around 150 pigs will owe their short, brutish lives to this emission. A malty smell hangs in the air at the Fuxin Breeding Farm in Jiangxi province in central China, 10 hectares of low concrete barns and fields beside a small reservoir, which is home to around 2,000 pigs. The business was started four years ago by 31-year-old Ouyang Kuanxue. Mr Ouyang's friends say he was destined to be a pig farmer--he was born in the Chinese zodiacal year of the pig--but his own explanation is more prosaic: when he came back to Pingxiang, his hometown, in 2003 after studying management at university in Beijing, he could not think what else to do. His grandfather was a coalminer who kept a few pigs. His father already had 100. He decided to expand. Now the whole family is involved: together they have three farms with a total of around 5,000 swine. Mr Ouyang's younger brother is in charge of production; his sister-in-law runs the office. The past year has been hard for them and other pig farmers, Mr Ouyang says, because pork prices have been low and feed expensive. But this lean year followed many fat ones. Mr Ouyang drives a Volkswagen SUV; his wife has a new Audi, wears a Cartier bracelet and runs two nail bars; they own an apartment in a new block in the local town. Mr Ouyang has a panoply of pig-related news feeds on his phone. Still, when he goes out for dinner with friends, he tends to avoid pork. The family's good fortune is emblematic of China's flying pig market over the past 35 years. Since the late 1970s, when the government liberalised agriculture, pork consumption has increased nearly sevenfold in China. It now produces and consumes almost 500m swine a year, half of all the pigs in the world. The tale of Chinese pigs is thus a parable of the country's breakneck economic rise. But it is more than symbolic: China's lust for pork has serious consequences for the country's economy and environment--and for the world. Pigs have been at the centre of Chinese culture, cuisine and family life for thousands of years. Pork is the country's essential meat. In Mandarin the word for "meat" and "pork" are the same. The character for "family" is a pig under a roof. The pig is one of the 12 signs of the Chinese zodiac: those born in that year are said to be diligent, sympathetic and generous. Pigs signify prosperity, fertility and virility. Poems, stories and songs celebrate them. Miniature clay pigs have been found in graves from the Han Dynasty (206BC-220AD). Historians think people in southern China were the first in the world to domesticate wild boars, 10,000 years ago. For centuries sacrificial pigs--and the eating of pork--featured prominently in all forms of commemoration and festivity. At the autumnal Double Ninth Festival (on the ninth day of the ninth lunar month), male elders gathered at their ancestors' tombs and slaughtered a pig as a symbol of that forebear's ongoing provision for his descendants. When an estate was in financial trouble, pigs were the last expense to go, says James Watson, an anthropologist at Harvard University, because if the autumn rites were neglected, the ancestor would die a second, terrible death, a final expiration of his spirit. Almost every rural home once had a pig, not least because, well into the Communist era, the animals were part of the household recycling system. They consumed otherwise inedible waste and were valued for their manure (even Mao Zedong was a fan of the "fertiliser factory on four legs"). And their meat has always been central to Chinese cooking: it has "the perfect flavour for Chinese cuisine," reckons Fuchsia Dunlop, a food writer and cook. Nothing is wasted. Pigs' faces are served whole as a gourmet treat; their brains, says Ms Dunlop, are "soft as custard, and dangerously rich". The appeal is medicinal as well as culinary: the innards are ascribed therapeutic benefits. From trotter to tail, the Chinese eat the whole hog. Still, for much of China's history, pigs were a luxury consumed only rarely, sometimes extremely rarely. That has changed dramatically. Lei Xiaoping, the manager of Mr Ouyang's farm, eats pork for every lunch and dinner these days--swine from the farm that have died in a fight or are too small to sell. He is not squeamish about guzzling pigs he has reared himself. After all, as a child Mr Lei (now aged 51) ate pork only three times a year. Even before the revolution of 1949, most people in China got only 3% of their annual calorific intake from meat. Pork soon became scarcer still. Tens of millions died in the famine that followed Mao's Great Leap Forward in the late 1950s and early 1960s. For decades after that peasants would rub pork fat around their woks to give their vegetables a meaty hint, says Ms Dunlop, before putting the fat away to use on another occasion. As recently as the early 1990s many Chinese mostly subsisted on a diet of vegetables bought at street markets. For Mr Lei, as for many of his countrymen, the years of deprivation are well within living memory. Not surprising, then, that eating meat has become a symbol of triumph over hardship, as much a part of China's transformation as the towering skyscrapers and glistening cities. Grandparents who once went hungry stuff their grandchildren with the treats they lacked--and top of the list is pork. The average Chinese now eats 39kg of pork a year (roughly a third of a pig), more even than Americans (who typically prefer beef), and five times more per person than they ate in 1979. The most obvious impact has been on the pigs themselves. Until the 1980s farms as large as Mr Ouyang's were unknown: 95% of Chinese pigs came from smallholdings with fewer than five animals. Today just 20% come from these backyard farms, says Mindi Schneider of the International Institute of Social Studies in The Hague. Some industrial facilities, often owned by the state or by multinationals, produce as many as 100,000 swine a year. These are born and live for ever on slatted metal beds; most never see direct sunlight; very few ever get to breed. The pigs themselves have changed physically, too. Three foreign breeds now account for 95% of them; to preserve its own kinds, China has a national gene bank (basically a giant freezer of pig semen) and a network of indigenous-pig menageries. Nevertheless, scores of ancient variants may soon die out. But China's pigs are far from the only victims of their popularity. Demand for them worries the Communist Party, underpins what will soon be the world's biggest economy and threatens Amazon rainforests. The Chinese eat so much pork that when its price goes up, the cost of other things rises, too. For the Communist Party, therefore, keeping affordable meat on the table is vital, not least for the stability of the economy. In 2007, for example, an estimated 45m pigs died in China from "blue ear pig disease". Pork prices rocketed; the annual rate of increase of the consumer price index (sometimes known as the "consumer pig index" because of the creature's prominent role in it) hit a ten-year high. Panic buying ensued. There were reports of customers being injured in a crush on a supermarket escalator when rushing to buy cheap chilled pork in Guangzhou, and a general pork-buying frenzy across China. Imports doubled. In response the party established the world's first pork reserve, some of it in frozen form and some the live, snorting variety. This aims to keep pork affordable and reasonably priced: when pigs become too expensive, the government releases some of its stock onto the market; if they become too cheap, the reserve buys more porkers to keep farmers in profit. Other pro-pork policies include grants, tax incentives, cheap loans for farms and free animal immunisation--all intended to boost intensive pig farming and to keep plates loaded high with Chinese pork. According to Chatham House, a London-based think-tank, the Chinese government subsidised pork production by $22 billion in 2012. That is roughly $47 per pig. Yet even the Communist Party can no longer control every aspect of this vast industry. That is partly because the appetite for pork is now so great--and growing so fast--that sating it depends on places far beyond China's borders. Chinese pigs, in turn, are reshaping the environments of faraway countries. The Communist Party prizes self-sufficiency in food. Most of the pigs China eats are indeed home-grown. But each kilogram of pork requires 6kg of feed, usually processed soy or corn. Given the scarcity of water and land in China, it cannot feed its pigs as well as its people. The upshot is that Chinese swine, which previously ate household scraps, increasingly rely on imported feed. Ms Schneider reckons that more than half of the world's feed crops will soon be eaten by Chinese pigs. Already in 2010 China's soy imports accounted for more than 50% of the total global soy market. From a low base, grain imports are rising fast as well: the US Grains Council, a trade body, predicts that by 2022 China will need to import 19m-32m tonnes of corn. That equates to between a fifth and a third of the world's entire trade in corn today. As a result, land use is changing drastically on the other side of the world. In Brazil, more than 25m hectares of land--parts of which were once Amazon rainforest--are being used to cultivate soy (Chinese companies have not signed up to the "soy roundtable", a voluntary association, the members of which agree not to buy soyabeans from newly deforested land). Entire species of plants and trees are being sacrificed to fatten China's pigs. Argentina has chopped down thousands of hectares of forest and shifted its traditional cattle-breeding to remote areas to make way for soyabeans. Since 1990 the Argentine acreage given over to that crop has quadrupled: the country exports almost all of its whole soyabeans--around 8m tonnes--to China. In some areas farmers harvest two or three crops a year, using herbicides that have been linked to birth defects and increased cancer rates. All these imports have made China ever-more exposed to global commodity prices. China has responded by buying land in other countries, some of which is used to grow feed crops or to raise pigs that are sold onto the domestic market at preferential prices. China itself is secretive about these purchases, but the International Institute for Sustainable Development, a Canadian think-tank, calculates that it has bought 5m hectares in developing countries; others think the total is higher. When Shuanghui, China's largest pork producer, bought Smithfield Foods, an American firm, in 2013, it acquired huge stretches of Missouri and Texas. As demand for pork rises, China's porcine empire is sure to expand. Feeding the pigs is not farmers' only concern. Their greatest fear is disease: growth slows when a pig gets sick, and, even more worryingly, swine on modern Chinese farms tend to be genetically similar (many are half-siblings), so when one gets ill, much of the herd may succumb. Farmers routinely add small doses of antibiotics to their feed, and this, too, has daunting knock-on effects. In America and Europe such practices are associated with the emergence of "superbugs", bacteria in animals and humans that are resistant to most antibiotics. In 2009 pigs exported from China to Hong Kong were found to harbour one such bug. The mainland government acknowledged the problem, yet the use of antibiotics, hormones and growth-promoters is barely regulated. These drugs pass into the wider food chain partly via sizzling plates of pork, and partly through the 5kg of manure that the average pig produces a day. This once-desirable substance is now a critical problem for China. Though large swathes of land have been set aside to contain it, they are poorly managed. The billions of tonnes of waste China's livestock produce each year are one of the biggest sources of water and soil pollution in the country, according to the Ministry of Agriculture. The 16,000 dead pigs that were dumped in the tributaries of the Huangpu river, a source of Shanghai's tap-water, after a virus outbreak in 2013, were a lurid indicator of a seeping national problem. Porcine waste also contributes to emissions of methane and nitrous oxide, a greenhouse gas that is 300 times more potent than carbon dioxide. Intensive swine-farming is much more polluting than smallholding. So, as well as depriving Earth of the natural cooling function of the rainforests they displace, Chinese pigs contribute to global warming more directly. Greenhouse-gas emissions from Chinese agriculture increased by 35% between 1994 and 2005. The global expansion of livestock production is one of the primary causes of climate change, says Tony Weis of the University of Western Ontario, Canada, responsible for almost a fifth of emissions produced by human activity. So although its proliferating pigs are a resonant symbol of China's prosperity, they are also a menace. A few inChina--a very few--are beginning to question the benefits of eating more and more pork. Meat consumption is beginning to plateau among the very rich; health scares have boosted sales of organic food, though it still accounts for a tiny share of agricultural production. Vegetarianism is growing, but is generally thought eccentric. The ambition of most Chinese continues to be to devour as large a slice of the pork pie as possible. In much of the rich world meat consumption is stable or falling but in the Middle Kingdom it soars unrestrained. Forget the zodiac: in today's China, every year is the year of the pig. As demand for pork rises, China's porcine empire is sure to expand   Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
Russia's currency is in crisis. A late-night interest-rate hike by Russia's central bank failed to stem the ongoing collapse of the ruble. So what does this mean for everyone else? This is kind of a complex question. But we can begin to answer that question by considering who is most exposed to Russia's economy. "[C]ompanies domiciled in Austria, Finland, and Poland have some of the largest average revenue exposures to Russia at 7.4%, 6.2%, and 5.6%," FactSet's Michael Amenta said in a September research note. "In addition, European countries with larger public markets, such as The Netherlands, United Kingdom, Gemany, and France, contain companies averaging several percentage points of revenue exposure as well (5.3%, 4.0%, 3.4%, and 3.2%, respectively)." US companies have an average of just 1.4% of sales exposed to Russia. FactSet   FREE AppDownload
In 1998, Russia defaulted.  And with the recent collapse in the ruble and the emergency action from Russia's central bank announced late Tuesday, investors are having flashbacks to 1998 and the global emerging market currency crisis that ensued.  But in a note to clients on Tuesday, Kit Juckes at Societe Generale writes that when making comparisons to 1998, "the differences are more important that the similarities." Juckes outlines three main reasons why this time it's different: Here's Juckes' chart of the ruble's recent slide. Société GénéraleRussia real effective exchange rate vs Brazil, Korea. FREE AppDownload
Some mutual funds try to track their benchmarks. Others try to beat their benchmarks. Unfortunately, most mutual funds have historically lagged their benchmarks. According to Goldman Sachs' David Kostin, 2014 has been a particularly challenging year for large-cap equity mutual fund managers. "Market swings and shifting volatility regimes have compounded the performance difficulty for fund managers this year," Kostin wrote on Friday. "Only 12% of large-cap core mutual funds have outperformed the S&amp;P 500 YTD, the lowest share since 1997. Following the 7% S&amp;P 500 sell-off in October, the index rallied sharply by 11% during the course of two months to new record highs, before the past week’s turbulence." This only adds to the case for choosing passively managed index funds over actively managed funds. Goldman Sachs FREE AppDownload
CNBCBill Gross. Jeff Gundlach thinks TIPS are for losers.  In an interview with CNBC on Monday, Janus Capital's Bill Gross said that TIPS, or Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities, are an investment that looks particularly attractive right now.  TIPS are inflation-protected because though their yield is considerably lower than a regular 10- or 30-year Treasury bond, the principal paid back at maturity is inflation-adjusted. The comment from Gross, however, presents an interesting juxtaposition with an opinion offered last week by another bond guru, Jeff Gundlach. On his latest webcast, Gundlach said bluntly: "TIPS are for losers." Basically, TIPS are a bet that inflation will rise, thus making the receipt of paltry interest payments worth it in order to receive a larger, inflation-adjusted repayment upon the bond's maturation.  Gundlach doesn't see inflation anywhere, and so his view that TIPS are a pointless investment would be sound under that framework. Earlier this month, Bill Gross wrote on Twitter that Treasury bonds might be overpriced. Jeff Gundlach had said just a week earlier that Treasuries still looked cheap. And now there is the disagreement over TIPS.  Gross and Gundlach met about potentially joining forces as Gross got prepared to leave PIMCO, which he left for Janus back in September, and maybe it's for the best they didn't. FRED      FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/John Kolesidis Europe is in a bad place right now. Deflation is looming and growth is nowhere to be seen. There's conflict in Ukraine, unemployment is still eye-wateringly high, and it doesn't seem like much of that is going to change any time soon. So insurgent opposition parties are popping up all over the continent, promising an end to crisis or a return to how things used to be. Here's what Citi's researchers had to say about Europe's political developments in their outlook for 2015: Future developed country elections will likely continue to see the popularity of new — and not so new — anti-establishment parties, from France’s National Front to Greece’s Syriza to Spain’s up-and-coming far-left Podemos, increasing the risk of fragile multi-party coalitions and reducing the already limited political capital of leaders. In our view, the appetite for political alternatives will endure for many years to come, and their public support could increase in the event of a triple-dip European recession, a non-negligible risk. Here's a look at the five leaders most likely to cause an upset in the year ahead: REUTERS/Ina FassbenderBerndt Lucke, who leads Germany's anti-euro movement, could have a knock-on effect for German politics. Lucke often doesn't get a look-in when people are talking about Europe's fresh new populist movements. AfD is comparatively poorly supported and, unlike the emergent centre-right and right-wing parties in other parts of Europe, AfD and Lucke are less prone to inflammatory rhetoric.  But that shouldn't undermine Lucke's potential impact. Germany is a colossal, irreplaceable lynchpin in the European project. AfD support Germany's membership of the EU, but wants it to stop using the euro. Standard &amp; Poor's went as a far as to say that the group posed a risk to the stability of the eurozone.  Angela Merkel's centre-right Christian Democrats enjoy widespread support for now, but some disgruntled voters are heading to the AfD. If more follow them as the German economy slows down, the Christian Democrats could be forced to pursue more anti-European policies in an attempt to get them back. German voters are overwhelmingly opposed to Europe-wide stimulus projects and a more stern stance from Berlin could worsen Europe's already achingly-slow growth.  Latest polling support: 6% (5th place) REUTERS/Yorgos KarahalisSyriza's Alexis Tsipras could be the most important opposition party leader, with snap elections potentially just a month or two away in Greece. There's not much that Germany's Berndt Lucke has in common with Greece's Alexis Tsipras. Syriza have become the darlings of Europe's anti-austerity left, and look likely to triumph in the snap elections that could come at the start of 2015. Syriza has a political platform that puts it on a collision course with Europe's most important institutions. That prospect sent Greek stocks into the ground last week, seeing their worst sell-off in more than 25 years. Syriza is at the heart of Europe's far left: four Italian politicians were even elected to the European Parliament this year on a "Tsipras List". Greece was at the centre of the euro crisis from 2010 onwards, and it could still be the crux of European politics in 2015. Latest polling support: 24.3% (1st place) REUTERS/Olivia HarrisNigel Farage, UKIP leader, hopes to make gains in the UK's 2015 election. Farage, the long-time leader of the United Kingdom Independence Party (UKIP), poses a threat to Europe from outside of the currency union. UKIP aren't likely to win the UK's upcoming general election in May 2015. They're not even necessarily going to get any seats, owing to the UK's electoral system. But their shadow is hanging over British politics at the moment. The Labour party has hastily assembled its own strategy for dealing with UKIP, and the Conservative party have promised a 2017 referendum on the UK's EU membership which London's financial giants are dreading. Even with relatively little concrete political power, just a few seats in parliament for Farage's UKIP could be crucial. No party seems likely to get majority support from the country, so alliance-building will be unavoidable after 2015. If UKIP's handful of MPs held the balance of power, they could push for an EU referendum almost immediately. Latest polling support: 16% (3rd place) REUTERS/Juan Medina Pablo Igelsias' Podemos are currently ahead in Spanish polls, a year from the country's next election. Spain's anti-austerity insurgents, Podemos, have surged from nothing to become the most popular party in Spain right now. If this list was ranked, Iglesias would be a serious contender for the man most likely to upturn the European political system in 2015. Iglesias is a fan of Greece's Alexis Tsipras, but unlike Greece, Spain is too big to be isolated by European authorities. There's now a real chance that the eurozone's fourth biggest economy might vote for a guy who refers positively to Vladimir Lenin in his political speeches. Even if the rest of 2015 goes well, Spain's election in December could prompt a huge crisis. Similarly to Syriza, Podemos would seriously clash with the eurozone's economic and political orthodoxy, particularly on the issue of fiscal policy. The eurozone has agreed to rules that try to limit the deficit spending of its members, which Podemos would not abide by. Latest polling support: 29.6% (1st place)  REUTERS/Robert PrattaMarine Le Pen of France's Front National looks unlikely to win power any time soon, but she's casting a long shadow over the country's politics. Marine Le Pen is the most obvious representative of Europe's hard right. Le Pen leads Front National that her father, Jean-Marie Le Pen, led before her. A long-time presence in French politics which came in second place in France's 2002 Presidential election. Like Germany, France doesn't have elections this year, but Le Pen and FN are making their presence felt in France. The country has municipal elections next year, when FN are likely to make gains, adding to their victory (by more than four percentage points) in the European parliament elections in France. As in Germany, it's very unlikely that FN will enter a formal position of power. The country's two-round presidential elections make it functionally impossible for them to win at the highest level, but they will continue to have an effect on the mainstream parties of the French left and right, as they scramble to please its voters. Latest polling support: 27-32% (1st-2nd place)
