Donald Miralle/Getty ImagesThe weekend is over and Asian markets are starting the week lower. Japan’s Nikkei is down 1.0%. Australia’s S&amp;P/ASX 200 is down 0.1%. Korea’s KOSPI is up a modest 0.05%.  Data out on Monday showed that Japanese retail sales climbed 11% year-over-year in March, this is the biggest one month gain since March 1997. The surge in retail sales was driven by consumers rushing to stock up on goods ahead of the consumption tax hike.  Meanwhile, data over the weekend showed that Chinese industrial profits climbed 10.1% in the first quarter. The focus over the weekend however continued to be the rising tension between Ukraine and Russia, as pro-Russian rebels continue to hold international military observers in eastern Ukraine, having released just one of the hostages. Meanwhile, western countries are expected to impose more sanctions on Russia. U.S. futures are modestly lower. S&amp;P futures are down 0.01%, while Nasdaq futures are down 0.06%, and Dow futures are down 0.06%. Of course in the U.S. this week, all eyes are on the FOMC meeting and the April jobs report. FREE AppDownload
BI AustraliaCopies of The Australian Financial Review with an error-riven front page caused by a catastrophic production mistake are the subject of competitive auctions on eBay. [Update Monday: one of the copies has sold for $49. We've contacted the seller and will let you know if we hear back.] The cover of the ANZAC weekend edition in Western Australia included a series of howlers, such as “Joe Hockey headline tk here”, and “Japan headline”, and the now-immortal “ARMS BUILDUP / BUYS PLANES / WORLD IS FUKT”. The hashtag “#Worldisfukt” quickly became a trending topic on Twitter in Australia after the error emerged. The paper’s editor, Michael Stutchbury, apologised to WA readers, telling Mumbrella the error had occurred because someone had “pressed a wrong button”. BI AustraliaSeveral copies of the paper are being offered for sale on eBay, including one which puts the current price at $49. Other copies are for sale at up to $90, with promises they are “newsagent quality”, unread, and will be shipped in tubes to ensure they arrive in perfect condition. The paper costs $3.30 in newsagents. Follow Business Insider Australia on Facebook, Twitter, and LinkedIn This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Policy Horizons Canada worked with futurist and data visualizer Michell Zappa of Envisioning to produce a report called MetaScan 3: Emerging Technologies and accompanying infographics. We are reproducing the summary for emerging energy technologies. NASASpace-based solar power could be scientifically viable by 2025.Below are technologies related to energy under three key areas of accelerating change: Storage, Smart grid and Electricity generation. Energy storage involves new, cost-effective ways of storing energy, either in improved batteries, as new fuels or other ways. A smart grid is a set of technologies that pairs information with moving electricity around, enabling more efficient generation and use of energy. Electricity generation is characterized by technologies that generate power from unused sources and that more efficiently produce electric power or fuels from sources in use today. We have included predictions based on consultation with experts of when each technology will be scientifically viable (the kind of stuff that Google, governments, and universities develop), mainstream (when VCs and startups widely invest in it), and financially viable (when the technology is generally available on Kickstarter). Fuel cells: Unlike batteries, fuel cells require a constant source of fuel and oxygen to run, but they can produce electricity continually for as long as these inputs are supplied. They inherently displace the need for natural gas turbines, and are ideally used for stationary power generation or large passenger vehicles such as buses (especially at energy-dense future iterations of the technology). Scientifically viable in 2013; mainstream in 2015; and financially viable in 2016. Lithium-air batteries: Advances in materials technology is enabling the advance of high energy Li-air batteries which promise an energy density that rivals gasoline, offering a five-fold increase compared to traditional Li-Ion batteries. By using atmospheric oxygen instead of an internal oxidizer, these batteries could dramatically extend electric vehicle range. Scientifically viable in 2017; mainstream in 2018; and financially viable in 2020. Hydrogen energy storage &amp; transport: Hypothetical evolution of existing power grids, transporting and storing hydrogen instead of electricity. Could be used in combination with various kinds of energy transformation methods, minimizing loss and maximizing storage capacity. Scientifically viable in 2019; mainstream in 2021; and financially viable in 2022. Thermal storage: Often accumulated from active solar collector or from combined heat and power plants, and transferred to insulated repositories for use later in various applications, such as space heating, domestic or process water heating. Scientifically viable in 2022; mainstream in 2024; and financially viable in 2027. First-generation smart grid: Electrical meters that record consumption of electric energy in real time while communicating the information back to the utility for monitoring and billing purposes. Can be used for remote load-balancing such as disabling non-essential devices at peak usage Scientifically viable in 2014; mainstream in 2015; and financially viable in 2016. Distributed generation: Generates electricity from many small energy sources instead of large centralized facilities. Centralized power plants offer economies of scale, but waste power during transmission, and are inefficient in rapidly adapting to grid needs. Scientifically viable in 2017; mainstream in 2021; and financially viable in 2022. Smart energy network: Speculative global energy &amp; power infrastructure and set of standards which can be used interchangeably. Could theoretically mimic characteristics of the Internet in channeling heat, energy, natural gas (and conceivably hydrogen) from local and distant sources depending on global demand. Scientifically viable in 2019; mainstream and financially viable in 2020. Tidal turbines: A form of hydropower that converts tidal energy into electricity. Currently used in small scale, with the potential for great expansion. Scientifically viable in 2015; mainstream and financially viable in 2017. Micro stirling engines: Micrometer sized power generators that transform energy into compression and expansion strokes. Could hypothetically be 3D-printed on the fly and cover entire heat-generating surfaces in order to generate power. Scientifically viable in 2020; mainstream in 2026; and financially viable in 2027. Solar panel positioning robots: Small-scale robots able to re-position solar panels depending on weather conditions. More efficient than attaching each panel to motorized tracking assemblies. Scientifically viable in 2014; mainstream in 2016; and financially viable in 2017. Second-generation biofuels: New biofuel technologies, such as cellulosic ethanol and biodiesel from microalgae, promise to produce conventional fuel-compatible energy at low or zero greenhouse gas emissions. Scientifically viable in 2016; mainstream in 2017; and financially viable in 2021. Photovoltaic transparent glass: Glass with integrated solar cells which converts IR and some visible light into electricity. This means that the power for an entire building can be supplemented using the roof and façade areas. Scientifically viable in 2017; mainstream in 2020; and financially viable in 2021. Third-generation biofuels: Moving beyond today's organisms, 3rd generation biofuels involve genetic modification of organisms to produce new fuels by unconventional means. Examples include direct production of hydrogen from highly efficient algae, and production of energy-dense furans for automotive use. Scientifically viable in 2022; mainstream in 2024; and financially viable in 2025. Space-based solar power: Collecting solar power in space, beamed back as microwaves to the surface. A projected benefit of such a system is much higher collection rates than what is possible on earth. In space, transmission of solar energy is unaffected by the filtering effects of atmospheric gasses. Scientifically viable in 2025; mainstream in 2027; and financially viable in 2028+. Micro-nuclear reactors: A small, sealed version of a nuclear reactor (approximately a few tens of meters in length) capable of being shipped or flown to a site. Currently able to provide 10 MW of power, plans are for 50 MW capacity in the near future. Scientifically viable in 2022; mainstream and financially viable in 2023. Inertial confinement fusion (break-even): An approach to fusion that relies on the inertia of the fuel mass to provide confinement. To achieve conditions under which inertial confinement is sufficient for efficient thermonuclear burn, a capsule (generally a spherical shell) containing thermonuclear fuel is compressed in an implosion process to conditions of high density and temperature. Scientifically viable in 2013; mainstream and financially viable in 2021. Thorium Reactor: Thorium can be used as fuel in a nuclear reactor, allowing it to be used to produce nuclear fuel in a breeder reactor. Some benefits are that thorium produces 10 to 10,000 times less long-lived radioactive waste and comes out of the ground as a 100% pure, usable isotope, which does not require enrichment. Scientifically viable in 2025; mainstream in 2026; and financially viable in 2027. FREE AppDownload
Flickr/mdidGood morning, and welcome to the start of another big week. Here’s what you need to know: Markets are lower. ASX futures are pointing to a fall of 23 points at the open, following the lead from US and European markets on Friday which was marked by heavy selling. The NASDAQ was down 1.75%, dragged down by a sharp fall in Amazon, while the S&amp;P500 was down 0.84%. Asian markets also fell on Friday, with Shanghai down almost 1% and the Hang Sen down 1.5%. Monster week. It’s a hugely busy US economic calendar this week. US GDP is out on Wednesday, with the annualised number expected to tumble to 1.2% from 2.6% partly owing to winter snowstorms. That’s followed by the Fed’s statement and an update on the progress of the taper, with the asset buying program expected to be trimmed another $US10 billion. US manufacturing PMI is out on Thursday and on Friday, we get the jobs report, with the market expecting 215,000 jobs added, almost entirely by the private sector. It’s a relatively quiet week in Australia: on Thursday we get trade data, but the highlight will be the release that day of the findings of its Commission of Audit, the razor gang which worked over the summer to identify possible savings in the federal budget. Deficit tax. Speaking of budget fixes, Australia’s federal Cabinet meets today and will discuss a short-term income levy on higher-income earners. The business lobby has urged the government to drop the proposal, saying it would be an “unwelcome surprise” that will dampen consumer demand at a time when the economic recovery continues to look patchy. Labor isseizing on the prospect of a tax hike as a giant broken promise. Sydney’s boom. The Business Outlook from Deloitte Access Economics is out and shows how NSW is picking up speed faster than the other big non-mining state in Australia. The finance sector, Sydney’s sweet spot, has been gathering steam and this has been complemented by a rising housing market, according to partner Chris Richardson. More here. http://www.businessinsider.com.au/sydney-is-the-winner-as-economic-strength-shifts-back-from-the-resoure-states-deloitte-access-economcs-2014-4 Bali ‘hijacking’ farce. Matt Christopher, the Australian who was escorted off a Virgin Australia flight to Bali at the point of a dozen guns over the weekend, has been released without charge. Initially it was thought that he was drunk on board and tried to storm his way into the cockpit, triggering a hijack alert broadcast by the pilots. It turned out he had been asleep and had taken medication, and was disoriented when he awoke. His attempt to “storm the cockpit” was just an enthusiastic search for the toilet. Australia-China hacking. If you had email correspondence with a federal MP in 2011, it’s likely it was accessible to Chinese spies. It’s emerged that a known security breach, initially thought to have lasted just weeks, was much worse than feared and that Chinese intelligence services may have been monitoring the emails of Australia’s federal parliamentarians for a whole year, building up a detailed picture of the nation’s political and networks. Ad CEO fired. The CEO of US advertising startup RadiumOne, who had 45 domestic charges against him dropped and pleaded guilty to a misdemeanour, has reportedly been fired by his board. He has been defiant in a blog post, saying he didn’t hit his girlfriend but adding that she was having unprotected sex with other people for money. Google+ is dead. It emerged over the weekend that Google is likely to dismantle its failed social network after the departure of Vic Gundotra, who led the platform. The main impact will be the removal of forced integrations between Google+ and the company’s other services like YouTube and Hangouts. Wild EPL finish. Manchester City are now the favourites to win the English Premier League after Liverpool lost 2-0 to Chelsea and City beat Crystal Palace 2-0. City is three points behind Liverpool and one behind Chelsea but with a game in hand over both. Bonus item: LeBron James took time out in the middle of a slam-dunk to throw a death stare at Michael Jordan, owner of the Charlotte Bobcats, during a Bobcats-Miami Heat game last night. It’s an amazing slow-mo: This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Garry JonesOne of the most interesting things that comes out of behavioral research is the situation in which people act as though they believe one thing and their actions cause the opposite outcome to occur. A study by University College London psychology professor Nigel Harvey and graduate student Juemin Xu, published in the May 2014 issue of Cognition, found that online gamblers on a betting website believed in one common gambling fallacy, the "gambler's fallacy," and this led to them experiencing an opposite effect, the "hot-hand fallacy" (via Cardiff Garcia). The hot-hand fallacy occurs when gamblers think that a winning streak is more likely to continue. This belief is based on the idea that having already won a number of bets improves the probability that they will win the next bet or the next number of bets. Luck will continue favoring them, and the same outcome of winning bets gets more likely the more times it happens. The gambler's fallacy works in the opposite direction. This is the idea that during a losing streak, it is likely that a gambler's luck will turn around and that they will start winning. Here, repeatedly getting the same outcome decreases the probability of that outcome occurring in the future. The problem with both of these, and the reason they're labeled fallacies, is the fact that, in most games of chance, subsequent outcomes are independent from each other. A roulette ball landing on red after one spin has zero effect on what happens on the next spin. A pair of dice landing on 7 on one roll doesn't do anything to the next roll. Each time the game is played, the universe essentially forgets all previous outcomes and starts from scratch. This independent nature of gambling games means that streaks have no particular meaning. Winning bets five times in a row has no effect on what happens on the sixth bet. This means that both the hot-hand fallacy, saying that winning many times in a row increases your chances of winning on the next bet, and the gambler's fallacy, saying that losing many times in a row increases your chances of winning on the next bet, are wrong. So, it's somewhat surprising that Xu and Harvey actually found evidence that the hot-hand effect really does happen. They analyzed the records of an online sports betting website, containing hundreds of thousands of bets on horse races, soccer games, and dog races. Amazingly, they saw that, the longer a streak went on, the more likely the gambler would win their next bet. Here's a chart from their paper showing this result, based on all bets made on the site in British pounds. The dotted line with circle markers shows the increasing probabilities for winning the next bet based on already having won a streak whose length is indicated on the horizontal axis. The solid line with triangle markers shows the probability of winning the next bet if you haven't had a streak of that length: Xu and Harvey, May 2014 The longer the winning streak, the more likely the next bet is also a win. Initially, looking at all the bets overall, 48% were winners. If you win your first bet, you have a slightly improved 49% chance of winning your second bet as well, higher than the 47% chance of winning if you lost your first bet. After that, the hot-hand effect takes off. People who won two bets in a row had a 57% chance of winning their third bet — far higher than the 45% chance of winning for people who didn't have a winning streak of two in a row. As the chart shows, the longer the streak went on, the more the odds of winning the next bet improved. By the time you won six bets in a row, you had a 76% chance — better than 3 in 4 — to win your seventh bet. Xu and Harvey also saw a mirror-image effect with losing streaks. The longer a losing streak a gambler was on, the more likely that they would continue to lose. The next chart from the paper shows this effect. The solid line with circle markers shows the probability of winning the next bet if you have already lost the number of bets indicated on the horizontal axis; the dotted line with triangles shows the probability of winning if you're not on a losing streak of that length: Xu and Harvey, May 2014 As losing streaks go on, the probability of winning the next bet drops. By the time you're on your sixth loss in a row, you have just a 23% chance of winning the seventh bet. What could cause this? The outcome of one horse race or soccer game shouldn't have any effect on the outcome of the next race or game that a gambler bets on. REUTERS/Alessandro GarofaloPeople wait for the start of a race at the San Siro horseracing center in Milan May 23, 2009.Maybe the people who experience winning streaks are better at placing bets than the people who don't get hot. Xu and Harvey compared the overall returns for gamblers who had at least one streak of getting six bets right in a row to the returns for the gamblers who didn't, and saw that there was no difference: Winning-streak gamblers had an average loss of £1.0078 for each pound they bet; non-streaky gamblers had an almost identical average loss of £1.0077. This rules out the idea that gamblers with winning streaks are better at picking winners. If they were, we would expect them to win more bets overall and make more money than non-streaky gamblers, which does not happen. Xu and Harvey then looked at what kinds of bets were being made by gamblers on both winning and losing streaks and found something amazing. Bettors were behaving as though the gambler's fallacy were true and that either a winning or losing streak meant that their luck was more likely to change on the next bet. This behavior actually could lead to the hot-hand effect we saw above. To see this, Xu and Harvey looked at the odds of winning for the next bet placed by gamblers on winning streaks and losing streaks. Gamblers on winning streaks became more conservative and started betting on races and games with better odds of winning, acting as though they believed that their luck was going to run out. Gamblers on losing streaks became more risk seeking, and started betting more on long shots, apparently believing in the classic gambler's fallacy that their luck would have to turn around sometime soon. The following chart shows this behavior. The odds against winning for gamblers on a losing streak with length indicated by the horizontal axis are shown on the dashed line with triangle markers, and the odds against winning for gamblers on a winning streak are shown on the solid line with circle markers. Higher odds against means a smaller chance that the bet will win. Xu and Harvey, May 2014 Players on losing streaks went for riskier and riskier bets, taking bets with higher odds against in the hope that a big payoff would make up for their losses. Players on winning streaks went in the opposite direction and made bets that were more likely to win as their streaks went on. This behavior could explain the hot-hand effect. If players on winning streaks are taking more likely bets, then that could lead to the streaks continuing. If players on losing streaks are taking riskier bets, then that could lead to their losing streaks continuing. The interesting part of this is that the gamblers appear to be behaving as though they believe in the gambler's fallacy, that winning or losing a bunch of bets in a row means that the next bet is more likely to go the other way. Their reactions to that belief — with winners taking safer bets under the assumption they're going to lose and losers taking long-shot bets believing their luck is about to change — lead to the opposite effect of making the streaks longer. FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Ed YourdonBOSTON (Reuters) - Microsoft Corp is rushing to fix a bug in its widely used Internet Explorer web browser after a computer security firm disclosed the flaw over the weekend, saying hackers have already exploited it in attacks on some U.S. companies. PCs running Windows XP will not receive any updates fixing that bug when they are released, however, because Microsoft stopped supporting the 13-year-old operating system earlier this month. Security firms estimate that between 15 and 25 percent of the world's PCs still run Windows XP. Microsoft disclosed on Saturday its plans to fix the bug in an advisory to its customers posted on its security website, which it said is present in Internet Explorer versions 6 to 11. Those versions dominate desktop browsing, accounting for 55 percent of the PC browser market, according to tech research firm NetMarketShare. Cybersecurity software maker FireEye Inc said that a sophisticated group of hackers have been exploiting the bug in a campaign dubbed "Operation Clandestine Fox." FireEye, whose Mandiant division helps companies respond to cyber attacks, declined to name specific victims or identify the group of hackers, saying that an investigation into the matter is still active. "It's a campaign of targeted attacks seemingly against U.S.-based firms, currently tied to defense and financial sectors," FireEye spokesman Vitor De Souza said via email. "It's unclear what the motives of this attack group are, at this point. It appears to be broad-spectrum intel gathering." He declined to elaborate, though he said one way to protect against them would be to switch to another browser. Microsoft said in the advisory that the vulnerability could allow a hacker to take complete control of an affected system, then do things such as viewing changing, or deleting data, installing malicious programs, or creating accounts that would give hackers full user rights. FireEye and Microsoft have not provided much information about the security flaw or the approach that hackers could use to figure out how to exploit it, said Aviv Raff, chief technology officer of cybersecurity firm Seculert. Yet other groups of hackers are now racing to learn more about it so they can launch similar attacks before Microsoft prepares a security update, Raff said. "Microsoft should move fast," he said. "This will snowball." Still, he cautioned that Windows XP users will not benefit from that update since Microsoft has just halted support for that product. The software maker said in a statement to Reuters that it advises Windows XP users to upgrade to one of two most recently versions of its operating system, Windows 7 or 8. (Reporting by Jim Finkle; Editing by Diane Craft) FREE AppDownload
More and more people are calling for a "ban on banking," but that's not as crazy as it sounds. Under a new regime, there would still be entities called "banks." But they'd have a radically scaled back function. They would primarily serve as places that process payments and hold deposits, but they would be stripped of their most pivotal function, which is creating money. This is a point that's presumably missed by most of the population. You look at money and you think it's something created by the government or the Fed. In fact, money is for the most part created by private banks. In March, the Bank of England published an excellent, very clear paper titled Money Creation In The Modern Economy. It explains how, contrary to what people might think, a bank doesn't make loans, by taking the deposits of a client and then lending those deposits out. Instead, the bank creates money out of thin air. If you want to get a mortgage for a house, and the bank deems you to be credit-worthy, it puts the amount of money you need into an account. That money in your account becomes a liability for the bank. And the mortgage it now owns is an asset of the bank. These two images from the Bank of England report spell out nicely how it works. The first shows how money is created from a bank's perspective. Bank of England Prior to your taking out the loan, the bank has a certain amount of reserves, and a small amount of currency as assets, and its liabilities are its customer deposits. After you take out your own, the bank doesn't dip into its assets to give you money. Instead it creates a brand new asset (the loan it gives you) and a new liability, the brand new money you have as a deposit, which the bank just gave you. Now here's the same transaction from the customer's perspective. Bank of England Your assets consist of some deposits and currency prior to the loan. Then after the loan, you have way more deposits than you had more (remember, when you get a loan, it's not like the bank sends you out with a basket of cash. When you get a loan you have more money in your bank account than you had before). That loan is also a liability, since you have to pay it back. This might seem basic, except this is where money is created these days, not from some other outside force. Along with their paper, the Bank of England made a nice video explaining money creation. It's worth a quick viewing.  And read the full paper here &gt; FREE AppDownload
screengrab/'It's A Wonderful Life' Economists have begun seriously discussing the idea of banning banks. That seems ridiculous and far-fetched, but the idea might not be as crazy as it sounds. But before we get to the idea, there's something important that needs to be addressed, which is that people tend to have a gross misconception about what a bank does. The typical person probably thinks about a bank the way it's depicted in the movie "It's A Wonderful Life." In the scene below, George Bailey's savings and loan is being caught up in a run on the banks. Bailey is forced to explain to the depositors their money isn't in the vaults because it's been loaned out. He then points to some people in the crowd who have taken out mortgages from the bank, explaining how that's where people's deposits have gone.  But actually that's not how banks work. The reality is that banks don't make loans out of existing deposits. When a bank gives you a mortgage (or any other loan) it doesn't go into its vaults to see if there's cash available that someone else has deposited. Instead, the bank digitally (almost like magic) credits your account with the amount you need to pay for the home. The Bank of England recently published a fantastic paper titled Money Creation In The Modern Economy (.pdf) that explains that banks — rather than serving as an intermediary between depositors and borrowers — are in the business of creating money. Here's the basic summary of how it works: Bank Of England Essentially, modern banking represents the outsourcing of money creation from the federal government to the banking system. Of course, there are limits on how much money banks can create (some of the limits stem from regulation, some stem from monetary policy, and some stem from the market itself). But still, most money creation comes from banks. The new talk is that banks should be banned from creating money, and that the government would take it over.  Ever since the crisis, there's been on ongoing discussion about how to make the financial system safer. The recent debate really kicked off when FT columnist Marin Wolf called for stripping banks of their right to create money. His argument was that allowing banks to create money ex-nihilo is what is responsible for destabilizing credit bubbles and busts. People expect that their money is safe, and so when banks make too many risky loans, the government is forced to step in and backstop everything. If the government is going to have to end up backstopping everything as it is, why not have the government be the source of money creation? Wolf wants banks to just be depository and payment institutions. Just straight up utilities without the ability to create money.  As Amin Mian and Amir Sufi note on their blog House of Debt, the same idea (roughly) was recently advanced by Chicago economist John Cochrane (.pdf). That being said, the idea is extremely old. Mian and Sufi link to a 1939 proposal — spearheaded by the famous economist Irving Fisher — which sought to recreate a more stable banking system in the wake of the Great Depression. That paper spoke extensively about the need to prevent banks from creating money. From that paper comes a stern warning about how the modern banking system is a "loose screw" in the American banking system, and that banks had too much power to create money. Amir & Sufi That paper explained banks would still be able to act as lending intermediaries. For example, deposit accounts such as CDs (where the depositor was limited in how quickly they could get their money back) would be a legitimate source of loanable funds. In his paper on getting banks out of the creation of money, John Cochrane argues that banks could still be in the business of originating mortgages and loans, but that they could be financed by other authorities. Or there could be lending institutions that are 100% financed by equity and debt (not by deposits) thus insuring that those institutions not need a bailout. John Cochrane Probably not. In his piece on the subject, Martin Wolf says it will probably take another crisis before something like this is discussed: Our financial system is so unstable because the state first allowed it to create almost all the money in the economy and was then forced to insure it when performing that function. This is a giant hole at the heart of our market economies. It could be closed by separating the provision of money, rightly a function of the state, from the provision of finance, a function of the private sector. This will not happen now. But remember the possibility. When the next crisis comes – and it surely will – we need to be ready. There are also some big objections to the idea. In a blog post titled Is A Banking Ban The Answer? Paul Krugman points out one big problem with Wolf''s piece, which is that what might happen is simply more financial activity happening outside the banking system, into the less regulated shadow banking system. Krugman also raises questions of complexity, and whether the problem runs even deeper than financial stability (given that financial stability was restored in fairly short order once the government decided to make that a priority). The IMF did a report in 2012 on the 1939 Chicago Plan, which is useful background reading. Matthew Klein also wrote a great piece for Bloomberg View last year on killing banking as we know it by imposing 100% capital requirements (ending fractional reserve banking). Again, this isn't going to happen, but it's useful when thinking about the nature of money to realize that money creation is something that's been outsourced to the banks, and that to have the government be the prime creator of money would be radical departure from the current system. FREE AppDownload
WorldPayZinc We all know the major tech companies have a ton of money. But just how much money do these companies bring in every day? How about every second?  WorldPayZinc is a website that visualizes this data, showing how their profits grow over time.  The above image shows how much they make in one second. In just ONE second, Apple makes $1,997, while Google makes $658. Facebook brings in $81. This GIF shows how much they make in eight seconds. WorldPayZinc [via Duncan Robinson]
The countries in the Middle East are sitting on oceans of oil and gas. So, whenever there's any news about escalating tension or turmoil in the Middle East, we can't help but wonder what this could mean for energy prices. One of the first things to consider is how much energy is exposed to disruption. In JP Morgan Funds' Q2 Guide To The Markets, David Kelly and his team offer this map showing what percentage of the world's liquid energy is produced by each country or flows through a waterway in the region. JP Morgan Funds FREE AppDownload
Nicholas Valentin via FlickrCHICAGO (Reuters) - John Goihl, a hog nutritionist in Shakopee, Minnesota, knows a farmer in his state who lost 7,500 piglets just after they were born. In Sampson County, North Carolina, 12,000 of Henry Moore's piglets died in three weeks. Some 30,000 piglets perished at John Prestage's Oklahoma operation in the fall of 2013. The killer stalking U.S. hog farms is known as PEDv, a malady that in less than a year has wiped out more than 10 percent of the nation's pig population and helped send retail pork prices to record highs. The highly contagious Porcine Epidemic Diarrhea virus is puzzling scientists searching for its origins and its cure and leaving farmers devastated in ways that go beyond financial losses. "It's a real morale killer in a barn. People have to shovel pigs out instead of nursing them along," Goihl said. Since June 2013 as many as 7 million pigs have died in the United States due to the virus, said Steve Meyer, president of Iowa-based Paragon Economics and consultant to the National Pork Board said. United States Department of Agriculture data showed the nation's hog herd at about 63 million as of March 1, 2014. PEDv was first diagnosed in Ohio last May and has spread within a year to 30 states with no reliable cure in sight. U.S. packing plants may produce almost 2 percent less pork in 2014, according to Ken Mathews, USDA agricultural economist. Last week the USDA responded to calls for more reliable data and classified PEDv as a reportable disease, a step that requires the pork industry to track its spread. "It's a positive step that I wish they had taken last summer when it became obvious this was spreading rapidly," said Meyer. Most farmers and researchers believe PEDv is transmitted from pig to pig by contact with pig manure. "Something like a tablespoon of PEDv infected manure is roughly enough to infect the entire U.S. hog herd," said Rodney "Butch" Baker, swine biosecurity specialist at Iowa State University. The National Pork Board has spent about $1.7 million researching the virus, which is nearly always fatal in pigs younger than 21 days. With pork prices at an all-time high of $3.83 a pound, the loss of baby pigs cuts into profits for hog farmers. "If you have four weeks of mortality in a PEDv break, that's pretty devastating to the financial wellbeing of that operation," said Greg Boerboom, a Minnesota hog farmer. "I think most producers are scared," Boerboom said. "They stay up at night." PEDv does not pose a risk to human health and is not a food safety issue, the USDA says. ORIGIN MYSTERY Months of forensic research so far have turned up no clear evidence of how the disease entered the United States. The virus is nearly identical to one that infected pigs in China's Anhui province, according to a report published in the American Society of Microbiology journal mBio. Researchers also are exploring whether the widespread use of pig-blood byproducts in hog feed might have introduced the disease. There have been outbreaks in recent years in Europe, Japan, Mexico and parts of South America, though in milder forms than seen in the U.S. and China. The disease has taken root in Canada, too, where the pork industry is deeply integrated with U.S. pork production. LIKE A LAWN MOWER PEDv thrives in cold, damp environments, and after slowing last summer its spread accelerated during the past winter. In mid-December, there were over 1,500 cases but by mid-April, that had more than tripled to 5,790, according to USDA data. Altogether, of nearly 15,000 samples tested for PEDv about 32 percent have been positive. The virus "acts like a lawn mower" on the villi in a pig's intestines, which are the tiny projections that aid digestion, said Tony Forshey, chief of animal health at the Ohio Department of Agriculture. With their villi gone, the piglets cannot absorb nutrients from food or water, contract diarrhea and die from dehydration. So far, no vaccine has been able to completely protect pigs from the disease. An Iowa company, Harrisvaccines Inc., has made some progress, while pharmaceutical giants Merck Animal Health and Zoetis Inc have joined with universities to begin vaccine development. "There is no silver bullet for PEDv," said Justin Ellis, marketing manager at Alltech, which developed a feed additive designed to reduce risk of the disease. STRINGENT MEASURES The disease is spreading even as farmers and truckers impose stricter cleanliness measures across the so-called Hog Belt, which stretches across most of the U.S. Midwest and Plains States and extends south to North Carolina, the nation's No. 2 hog producer. Iowa ranks first. "It's a complete lifestyle change," said Iowa State's Baker. "In the past the truckers haven't thought of biosecurity much." Some hog farmers prohibit outside visitors. Others require workers to change clothes when entering and leaving barns. Truck drivers wipe down the step into their cabs, disinfect their steering wheels and change boots or wear disposable booties before entering farm yards. The industry wants truck washes to use fresh water instead of recycled, since PEDv can live in room temperature water for up to 13 days, a University of Minnesota study said. "The only truck I regularly allow on site is the feed truck and last November I told the driver not to get out of the truck," said Bill Tentinger, an Iowa farmer who so far has kept PEDv at bay. The extra washing, drying and disinfecting can consume at least two hours and cost up to $500 per load, industry sources said. DEATH TOLLS Bright yellow signs marked "PED" are popping up outside North Carolina farms warning the virus is present. One-third of North Carolina's 3,000 hog farms have been struck by PEDv since the first diagnosed case there in June 2013, the state says. So many piglets have died that Tom Butler, a farmer who fattens hogs for market in southeastern Harnett County, is having difficulty finding animals. His herd is down 25 percent to 6,000 pigs, costing him more than $100,000. "We were spiraling downhill for a while but I think we've leveled off," Butler said. "The industry is learning to cope." (Additional reporting by P.J. Huffstutter in Chicago, Marti Anne Maguire in Sampson County, N.C. and Rod Nickel in Winnipeg; Editing by David Greising and John Pickering) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange April 21, 2014.Stocks were slightly in the red Wednesday. The S&amp;P 500 was down 4 points or 0.2%. This follows a six-day win streak in the markets, which saw the S&amp;P climb 3.5% during the period. This young trend of low-volatility up-days is welcome after the spike in volatility we experienced in the past month and a half. And it means one popular trading philosophy is still working: buy the dips. Rich Barry of the NYSE MAC Desk discusses in his Mid-Day Market Update note: ...Why the speed bump? Remember, coming into 2014, market-gurus were predicting that this would be the year when the U.S. economy and the global economy finally gained some major traction and began to move under their own power. Under this scenario, the market credo in early January was “sell bonds / buy stocks” as the Great Rotation out of fixed income and into equities was finally going to take place. However, as a seasoned market-watcher once said, “when you think you have the keys to the market, they change the locks on you!” --- and the ‘great rotation’ is looking more like the ‘great pumpkin’ everyday… Instead, interest rates are actually trending lower and investors are bidding up classically defensive sectors like Utilities, Health Care and Energy. What does this tell us??? It tells us that the market is not so sure that the U.S. economy is going to gain ‘major traction’ this year. However, with the ‘Yellen-put’, (formerly known as the ‘Bernanke put’) still firmly in place, smart traders should stick with the trade that has worked so well for the past five years: Keep on buying the dips… Basically, the economy isn't going gangbusters. But then again, that means the Fed won't pull the plug on super-easy monetary policy any time soon. This is a theme market strategist Ed Yardeni touched on this morning. "I’ve previously made the case for a secular bull market in stocks on the premise that subpar economic growth in the US and around the world reduces the likelihood of a recession," wrote Yardeni. "That’s because slow growth is bound to keep a lid on inflation, which means that the major central banks are more likely to maintain their easy monetary policies. In the past, maturing economic expansions often ended when inflationary booms caused monetary policy to tighten. The boom was then followed by a bust." The consensus on Wall Street continues to be "Buy the dips." FREE AppDownload
Editor's note: Below is a Q&amp;A with Paul Ashworth, chief North American economist at Capital Economics. This Q&amp;A went out to subscribers of our "10 Things You Need To Know Before The Opening Bell" newsletter on Friday morning. Sign up here to get the newsletter and more of these interviews in your inbox every day. BI: What is the most underreported story in markets? PA: Why is productivity growth so weak? We’re all obsessed by the participation rate, but there is almost no decent research on why productivity growth has been as weak as it has for almost a decade now. BLSBI: Have rapid rent increases colored the way you view the housing market? PA: Not really. They were expected. The growth rate of rents isn’t out of control. It reflects the ability of tenants to pay more as labour market conditions strengthen. Rising rents also support the idea that there is no new housing bubble. BI: Equity gains have mostly stalled out in 2014. What happens next? PA: After such a massive gain last year, this was to be expected. We wouldn’t be surprised if the S&amp;P 500 moved sideways for the remainder of this year, ending at 1900.  BI: What are you most concerned about at this point?  PA: Surprisingly very little. As always, there are geopolitical risks. But fiscal policy is no longer an obstacle and the Fed is much more likely to tighten too late rather than too early. FREE AppDownload
Smith GillSaudi Arabia is expected to begin work on the Kingdom Tower next week.  The building in Jeddah is expected to cost $1.23 billion and stand 3,280 feet tall, according to the Saudi Gazette. That's 568 feet taller than Dubai’s Burj Khalifa. Construction is also underway on Sky City in China, projected to be 2,749 feet tall. Sky City is expected to finish before the Kingdom Tower and will, for a very brief period, hold the title of the world's tallest building. Two years ago, Barclays introduced its Skyscraper Index, which suggests that construction booms, highlighted by record-breaking skyscrapers, coincide with the beginning of economic downturns. In his 2012 report, Barclays' Andrew Lawrence and his team wrote that this is because "the world’s tallest buildings are simply the edifice of a broader skyscraper building boom, reflecting a widespread misallocation of capital and an impending economic correction." But it isn't just the world's tallest building we should be looking at. Lawrence said it's also important to look at the number of skyscrapers being built and their geographic profile. This is because the tallest buildings "rarely stand alone." With this in mind, investors should watch the building booms in China, India, and Saudi Arabia. Here's a look at the Skyscraper Index from Barclays (click the image to enlarge it). Basically, what you see is a series of famous skyscrapers associated with subsequent busts. The most recent one is Dubai's Burg Khalifa. Another notable recent one is Malaysia's Petronas Towers, which presaged the Asian economic crisis of the late '90s. Barclays/Skyscraper Source Media's SkyscraperPage.comDrawing on Barclays' Skyscraper Index, we pulled 10 skyscrapers whose constructions coincided with the financial crises of their times. FREE AppDownload
If there's one thing you should get right when visiting a foreign country, it's the greeting. International travel resource Vayama has done the research to make sure we don't look like fools when we travel. Here are some traditional greeting customs from around the world. Produced by Justin Gmoser. Follow BI Video: On Facebook 
What we are about to present is one of the most shared and coveted charts on StockTwits. It shows the mistakes that traders and investors of all skill levels can make. Two of the greatest attributes any market participant can have are discipline and a plan of action. Without either of those you may find yourself subject to a vicious journey like this: StockTwits.com
Mark Lennihan/APRobert ShillerThe other day I posted this story citing a Gallup poll about how Americans think housing is the best possible investment out of most major asset classes.  This is extremely strange considering how widespread the data is on real estate and its poor real, real returns.  But it doesn’t explain why so many people believe this myth. In a piece yesterday at the Washington Post Robert Shiller offered up his opinion: “People remember home prices from long ago better than they remember other prices,” he says. “Ask anybody, ‘What did you pay for your home?,’ and they’ll remember even if it was 50 years ago. It will be some ridiculous number like $30,000. They then compare it to today’s prices, and it makes a big impression, and they forget there has been so much inflation since then.” I think this is an excellent explanation.  It points to a common bias related to asset prices – past price fixation.  Past price fixation is our tendency to focus on past prices as justification for future buy/sell decisions.  The purchase price of a home is obviously an important figure because homes are such an important part of the household balance sheet.  So that price stands out in our minds.  But we only remember the nominal figure.  We don’t calculate anything close to the real, real return (the return adjusted for taxes, fees and inflation).  So we tend to overstate the returns in real estate and consider it to be far superior than it really is.  In essence, our behavioral biases fail us. I think this not only explains the myth behind why people overstate the returns of real estate, but it also strikes another stake in the idea that consumers are in any way efficient or rational thinkers.  In fact, we tend to think in such narrow financial terms that we often make highly irrational decisions.  Our biases play a much more important component in our financial decisions than anything resembling order or rationality … FREE AppDownload
Harold And Kumar Go To WhitecastleWall Street is a career of stages and rites of passage. First, you're an intern, then you're an analyst, and after analyst you're an associate ... and then there comes a fork in the road, and with that fork comes a crisis. The fork looks like this: If you continue with your career in finance, either you will become one of the few hundred people who make a real difference in markets or you will become a part of an army of modelers, deal builders, and paper pushers. Either you're confident you'll be in the former or you must be content with being in the latter. If not, prepare for a crisis. “I don’t know how anyone works for Blackstone, or Bank of America, or Goldman Sachs. I don’t think I could ever do that," said one private equity analyst in his late 20s who preferred not to give his name. "You’re just like one cog in this enormous machine ... I guess the smaller the machine, the less you feel like a cog. I’m a small gear. I’d like to be a bigger gear. Or at best, run my own machine.” This goes especially for the type A people. The ones who made it a point to do everything right: the right school, the right job, the right life. They want to leave a legacy, and on Wall Street that's incredibly hard to do. People usually only talk about this after a few drinks. The conversation starts like this: "I'm thinking of joining a startup." The tech sector has created a new kind of highly paid alternative to finance. It's one with fewer formalities and red tape and busy work. It's more creative because you get to create something tangible — at least that's the dream. In reality, finance people in the tech sector are using the same skills they were using on Wall Street. The difference is culture. "Paying your dues" is a part of Wall Street culture at a lot of firms. Everyone is meant to know his or her place, especially those at the bottom. This can make young people feel as if they have no stake in the firm. "You need formal mentoring that is taken seriously, and everyone has to be treated like they could run the firm one day," said another young analyst at a buy-side firm. "I think at startups and smaller companies you can see yourself progressing as the company progresses." The analyst said at one of the bulge-bracket banks, the career-development officer did little more than play favorites. "It actually harmed morale more than it helped," the analyst said. Now, the Googles of the world need deal structures and financial modelers. However, especially for those with jobs that require specific skills, such as trading credit derivatives, leaving Wall Street is more of a pipe dream than anything else. "The fear of unknown tends to keep people in their place," said Jesse Marrus, founder of financial career matching site StreetID. "It definitely does seem to me that there is frustration ... It's kind of silly to hear them [Wall Streeters] complain about compensation, but some of these guys ... the money becomes a trap." The trap isn't necessarily the money; it's the lifestyle. “People that are satisfied with money are inside their head and view the world from a 'me' perspective," said the buy-side analyst. "They’re happy with their ability to have a nice wedding and have a sweet apartment ... for them the means is the end.” For others, it can just be money without meaning. And then there's the question of time. As one happy trader told Business Insider, "My perception of investment bankers has always been that they want to make a lot of money without a lot of risk, but they all fail to realize that wasting time is the biggest risk of all." Hope you all can figure it out. FREE AppDownload
There are many things you have to remember to do and say in an all-important job interview, but don't miss the elephant in the room: the things that you should never do. Produced by Justin Gmoser. Follow BI Video: On Twitter    
Mal B / Flickr(It is especially important to read the opening quotes this week. They set up the theme in the proper context.)  “There is no means of avoiding the final collapse of a boom brought about by credit expansion. The alternative is only whether the crisis should come sooner as the result of a voluntary abandonment of further credit expansion, or later as a final and total catastrophe of the currency system involved.” – Ludwig von Mises “No very deep knowledge of economics is usually needed for grasping the immediate effects of a measure; but the task of economics is to foretell the remoter effects, and so to allow us to avoid such acts as attempt to remedy a present ill by sowing the seeds of a much greater ill for the future.” – Ludwig von Mises “[Central banks are at] serious risk of exhausting the policy room for maneuver over time.” – Jaime Caruana, General Manager of the Bank for International Settlements “The gap between the models in the world of monetary policymaking is now wider than at any time since the 1930s.” – Benjamin Friedman, William Joseph Maier Professor of Political Economy, Harvard To listen to most of the heads of the world’s central banks, things are going along swimmingly. The dogmatic majority exude a great deal of confidence in their ability to manage their economies through whatever crisis may present itself. (Raghuram Rajan, the sober-minded head of the Reserve Bank of India, is a notable exception.) However, there is reason to believe that there have been major policy mistakes made by central banks – and will be more of them – that will lead to dislocations in the markets – all types of markets. And it’s not just the usual anti-central bank curmudgeon types (among whose number I have been counted, quite justifiably) who are worried. Sources within the central bank community are worried, too, which should give thoughtful observers of the market cause for concern. Too often we as investors (and economists) are like the generals who are always fighting the last war. We look at bank balance sheets (except those of Europe and China), corporate balance sheets, sovereign bond spreads and yields, and say it isn’t likely that we will repeat this mistakes which led to 2008. And I smile and say, “You are absolutely right; we are not going to repeat those mistakes. We learned our lessons. Now we are going to make entirely new mistakes.” And while the root cause of the problems, then and now, may be the same – central bank policy – the outcome will be somewhat different. But a crisis by any other name will still be uncomfortable. If you look at some of the recent statements from the Bank for International Settlements, you should come away with a view much more cautious than the optimistic one that is bandied about in the media today. In fact, to listen to the former chief economist of the BIS, we should all be quite worried. I am of course referring to Bill White, who is one of my personal intellectual heroes. I hope to get to meet him someday. We have discussed some of his other papers, written in conjunction with the Dallas Federal Reserve, in past letters. He was clearly warning about imbalances and potential bubbles in 2007 and has generally been one of the most prescient observers of the global economy. The prestigious Swiss business newspaper Finanz und Wirtschaft did a far-reaching interview with him a few weeks ago, and I’ve taken the liberty to excerpt pieces that I think are very important. The excerpts run a few pages, but this is really essential reading. (The article is by Mehr zum Thema, and you can read the full piece here.) Speculative Bubbles The headline for the interview is “I see speculative bubbles like in 2007.” As the interviewer rolls out the key questions, White warns of grave adverse effects of ultra-loose monetary policy: William White is worried. The former chief economist of the Bank for International Settlements is highly skeptical of the ultra-loose monetary policy that most central banks are still pursuing. “It all feels like 2007, with equity markets overvalued and spreads in the bond markets extremely thin,” he warns. Mr. White, all the major central banks have been running expansive monetary policies for more than five years now. Have you ever experienced anything like this? The honest truth is no one has ever seen anything like this. Not even during the Great Depression in the Thirties has monetary policy been this loose. And if you look at the details of what these central banks are doing, it’s all very experimental. They are making it up as they go along. I am very worried about any kind of policies that have that nature. But didn’t the extreme circumstances after the collapse of Lehman Brothers warrant these extreme measures? Yes, absolutely. After Lehman, many markets just seized up. Central bankers rightly tried to maintain the basic functioning of the system. That was good crisis management. But in my career I have always distinguished between crisis prevention, crisis management, and crisis resolution. Today, the Fed still acts as if it was in crisis management. But we’re six years past that. They are essentially doing more than what they did right in the beginning. There is something fundamentally wrong with that. Plus, the Fed has moved to a completely different motivation. From the attempt to get the markets going again, they suddenly and explicitly started to inflate asset prices again. The aim is to make people feel richer, make them spend more, and have it all trickle down to get the economy going again. Frankly, I don’t think it works, and I think this is extremely dangerous. So, the first quantitative easing in November 2008 was warranted? Absolutely. But they should have stopped these kinds of policies long ago? Yes. But here’s the problem. When you talk about crisis resolution, it’s about attacking the fundamental problems that got you into the trouble in the first place. And the fundamental problem we are still facing is excessive debt. Not excessive public debt, mind you, but excessive debt in the private and public sectors. To resolve that, you need restructurings and write-offs. That’s government policy, not central bank policy. Central banks can’t rescue insolvent institutions. All around the western world, and I include Japan, governments have resolutely failed to see that they bear the responsibility to deal with the underlying problems. With the ultraloose monetary policy, governments have no incentive to act. But if we don’t deal with this now, we will be in worse shape than before. But wouldn’t large-scale debt write-offs hurt the banking sector again? Absolutely. But you see, we have a lot of zombie companies and banks out there. That’s a particular worry in Europe, where the banking sector is just a continuous story of denial, denial and denial. With interest rates so low, banks just keep ever-greening everything, pretending all the money is still there. But the more you do that, the more you keep the zombies alive, they pull down the healthy parts of the economy. When you have made bad investments, and the money is gone, it’s much better to write it off and get fifty percent than to pretend it’s still there and end up getting nothing. So yes, we need more debt reduction and more recapitalization of the banking system. This is called facing up to reality. Where do you see the most acute negative effects of this monetary policy? The first thing I would worry about are asset prices. Every asset price you could think of is in very odd territory. Equity prices are extremely high if you at valuation measures such as Tobin’s Q or a Shiller-type normalized P/E. Risk-free bond rates are at enormously low levels, spreads are very low, you have all these funny things like covenant-lite loans again. It all looks and feels like 2007. And frankly, I think it’s worse than 2007, because then it was a problem of the developed economies. But in the past five years, all the emerging economies have imported our ultra-low policy rates and have seen their debt levels rise. The emerging economies have morphed from being a part of the solution to being a part of the problem. Do you see outright bubbles in financial markets? Yes, I do. Investors try to attribute the rising stock markets to good fundamentals. But I don’t buy that. People are caught up in the momentum of all the liquidity that is provided by the central banks. This is a liquidity-driven thing, not based on fundamentals. So are we mostly seeing what the Fed has been doing since 1987 – provide liquidity and pump markets up again? Absolutely. We just saw the last chapter of that long history. This is the last of a whole series of bubbles that have been blown. In the past, monetary policy has always succeeded in pulling up the economy. But each time, the Fed had to act more vigorously to achieve its results. So, logically, at a certain point, it won’t work anymore. Then we’ll be in big trouble. And we will have wasted many years in which we could have been following better policies that would have maintained growth in much more sustainable ways. Now, to make you feel better, I said the same in 1998, and I was way too early. What about the moral hazard of all this? The fact of the matter is that if you have had 25 years of central bank and government bailout whenever there was a problem, and the bankers come to appreciate that fact, then we are back in a world where the banks get all the profits, while the government socializes all the losses. Then it just gets worse and worse. So, in terms of curbing the financial system, my own sense is that all of the stuff that has been done until now, while very useful, Basel III and all that, is not going to be sufficient to deal with the moral hazard problem. I would have liked to see a return to limited banking, a return to private ownership, a return to people going to prison when they do bad things. Moral hazard is a real issue. Do you have any indication that the Yellen Fed will be different than the Greenspan and Bernanke Fed? Not really. The one person in the FOMC that was kicking up a real fuss about asset bubbles was Governor Jeremy Stein. Unfortunately, he has gone back to Harvard. The markets seem to assume that the tapering will run very smoothly, though. Volatility, as measured by the Vix index, is low. Don’t forget that the Vix was at [a] record low in 2007. All that liquidity raises the asset prices and lowers the cost of insurance. I see at least three possible scenarios how this will all work out. One is: Maybe all this monetary stuff will work perfectly. I don’t think this is likely, but I could be wrong. I have been wrong so many times before. So if it works, the long bond rates can go up slowly and smoothly, and the financial system will adapt nicely. But even against the backdrop of strengthening growth, we could still see a disorderly reaction in financial markets, which would then feed back to destroy the economic recovery. How? We are such a long way away from normal long-term interest rates. Normal would be perhaps around four percent. Markets have a tendency to rush to the end point immediately. They overshoot. Keynes said in late Thirties that the long bond market could fluctuate at the wrong levels for decades. If fears of inflation suddenly re-appear, this can move interest rates quickly. Plus, there are other possible accidents. What about the fact that maybe most of the collateral you need for normal trading is all tied up now? What about the fact that the big investment dealers have got inventories that are 20 percent of what they were in 2007? When things start to move, the inventory for the market makers might not be there. That’s a particular worry in fields like corporate bonds, which can be quite illiquid to begin with. I’ve met so many people who are in the markets, thinking they are absolutely brilliantly smart, thinking they can get out in the right time. The problem is, they all think that. And when everyone races for the exit at the same time, we will have big problems. I’m not saying all of this will happen, but reasonable people should think about what could go wrong, even against a backdrop of faster growth. And what is the third scenario? The strengthening growth might be a mirage. And if it does not materialize, all those elevated prices will be way out of line of fundamentals. Which of the major central banks runs the highest risk of something going seriously wrong? At the moment what I am most worried about is Japan. I know there is an expression that the Japanese bond market is called the widowmaker. People have bet against it and lost money. The reason I worry now is that they are much further down the line even than the Americans. What is Abenomics really? As far as I see it, they print the money and tell people that there will be high inflation. But I don’t think it will work. The Japanese consumer will say prices are going up, but my wages won’t. Because they haven’t for years. So I am confronted with a real wage loss, and I have to hunker down. At the same time, financial markets might suddenly not want to hold Japanese Government Bonds anymore with a perspective of 2 percent inflation. This will end up being a double whammy, and Japan will just drop back into deflation. And now happens what Professor Peter Bernholz wrote in his latest book. Now we have a stagnating Japanese economy, tax revenues dropping like a stone, the deficit already at eight percent of GDP, debt at more than 200 percent and counting. I have no difficulty in seeing this thing tipping overnight into hyperinflation. If you go back into history, a lot of hyperinflations started with deflation. Many people have warned of inflation in the past five years, but nothing has materialized. Isn’t the fear of inflation simply overblown? One reason we don’t see inflation is because monetary policy is not working. The signals are not getting through. Consumers and corporates are not responding to the signals. We still have a disinflationary gap. There has been a huge increase in base money, but it has not translated into an increase in broader aggregates. And in Europe, the money supply is still shrinking. My worry is that at some point, people will look at this situation and lose confidence that stability will be maintained. If they do and they do start to fear inflation, that change in expectations can have very rapid effects. More from the BIS The Bank for International Settlements is known as the “central bankers’ central bank.” It hosts a meeting once a month for all the major central bankers to get together for an extravagant dinner and candid conversation. Surprisingly, there has been no tell-all book about these meetings by some retiring central banker. They take the code of “omertà” (embed) seriously. Jaime Caruana, the General Manager of the BIS, recently stated that monetary institutions (central banks) are at “serious risk of exhausting the policy room for manoeuver over time.” He followed that statement with a very serious speech at the Harvard Kennedy School two weeks ago. Here is the abstract of the speech (emphasis mine): This speech contrasts two explanatory views of what he characterizes as “the sluggish and uneven recovery from the global financial crisis of 2008-09.” One view points to a persistent shortfall of demand and the other to the specificities of a financial cycle-induced recession – the “shortfall of demand” vs. the “balance sheet” view. The speech summarizes each diagnosis [and]… then reviews evidence bearing on the two views and contrasts the policy prescriptions to be inferred from each view. The speech concludes that the balance sheet view provides a better overarching explanation of events. In terms of policy, the implication is that there has been too much emphasis since the crisis on stimulating demand and not enough on balance sheet repair and structural reforms to boost productivity. Looking forward, policy frameworks need to ensure that policies are more symmetrical over the financial cycle, so as to avoid the risks of entrenching instability and eventually running out of policy ammunition. Coming from the head of the BIS, the statement I have highlighted is quite remarkable. He is basically saying (along with his predecessor, William White) that quantitative easing as it is currently practiced is highly problematical. We wasted the past five years by avoiding balance sheet repair and trying to stimulate demand. His analysis perfectly mirrors the one Jonathan Tepper and I laid out in our book Code Red. How Does the Economy Adjust to Asset Purchases? In 2011 the Bank of England gave us a paper outlining what they expected to be the consequences of quantitative easing. Note that in the chart below they predict exactly what we have seen. Real (inflation-adjusted) asset prices rise in the initial phase. Nominal demand rises slowly, and there is a lagging effect on real GDP. But note what happens when a central bank begins to flatten out its asset purchases or what is called “broad money” in the graph: real asset prices begin to fall rather precipitously, and consumer price levels rise. I must confess that I look at the graph and scratch my head and go, “I can understand why you might want the first phase, but what in the name of the wide, wide world of sports are you going to do for policy adjustment in the second phase?” Clearly the central bankers thought this QE thing was a good idea, but from my seat in the back of the plane it seems like they are expecting a rather bumpy ride at some point in the future.  Let’s go to the quote in the BoE paper that explains this graph (emphasis mine): The overall effect of asset purchases on the macroeconomy can be broken down into two stages: an initial ‘impact’ phase and an ‘adjustment’ phase, during which the stimulus from asset purchases works through the economy, as illustrated in Chart 1. As discussed above, in the impact phase, asset purchases change the composition of the portfolios held by the private sector, increasing holdings of broad money and decreasing those of medium and long-term gilts. But because gilts [gilts is the English term for bonds] and money are imperfect substitutes, this creates an initial imbalance. As asset portfolios are rebalanced, asset prices are bid up until equilibrium in money and asset markets is restored. This is reinforced by the signalling channel and the other effects of asset purchases already discussed, which may also act to raise asset prices. Through lower borrowing costs and higher wealth, asset prices then raise demand, which acts to push up the consumer price level. [Quick note: I think Lacy Hunt thoroughly devastated the notion that there is a wealth effect and that rising asset prices affect demand in last week’s Outside the Box. Lacy gives us the results of numerous studies which show the theory to be wrong. Nevertheless, many economists and central bankers cling to the wealth effect like shipwrecked sailors to a piece of wood on a stormy sea. Now back to the BoE.] In the adjustment phase, rising consumer and asset prices raise the demand for money balances and the supply of long-term assets. So the initial imbalance in money and asset markets shrinks, and real asset prices begin to fall back. The boost to demand therefore diminishes and the price level continues to increase but by smaller amounts. The whole process continues until the price level has risen sufficiently to restore real money balances, real asset prices and real output to their equilibrium levels. Thus, from a position of deficient demand, asset purchases should accelerate the return of the economy to equilibrium. This is the theory under which central banks of the world are operating. Look at this rather cool chart prepared by my team (and specifically Worth Wray). The Fed (with a few notable exceptions on the FOMC) has been openly concerned about deflationary trends. They are purposely trying to induce a higher target inflation. The problem is, the inflation is only showing up in stock prices – and not just in large-cap equity markets but in all assets around the world that price off of the supposedly “risk-free” rate of return.  I hope you get the main idea, because understanding this dynamic is absolutely critical for navigating what the Chairman of the South African Reserve Bank, Gill Marcus, is calling the next phase of the global financial crisis. Every asset price (yes, even and especially in emerging markets) that has been driven higher by unnaturally low interest rates, quantitative easing, and forward guidance must eventually fall back to earth as real interest rates eventually normalize. Trickle-Down Monetary Policy For all intents and purposes we have adopted a trickle-down monetary policy, one which manifestly does not work and has served only to enrich financial institutions and the already wealthy. Now I admit that I benefit from that, but it’s a false type of enrichment, since it has come at the expense of the general economy, which is where true wealth is created. I would rather have my business and investments based on something more stably productive, thank you very much. Monetary policies implemented by central banks around the world are beginning to diverge in a major way. And don’t look now, but that sort of divergence almost always spells disaster for all or part of the global economy. Which is why Indian Central Bank Governor Rajan is pounding the table for more coordinated policies. He can see what is going to happen to cross-border capital flows and doesn’t appreciate being caught in the middle of the field of fire with hardly more than a small pistol to defend himself. And the central banks even smaller than his are bringing only a knife to the gunfight.  The Fed &amp; BoE Are Heading for the Exits… In the United States, Federal Reserve Chairwoman Janet Yellen is clearly signaling her interest – if not outright intent – to turn the Fed’s steady $10 billion “tapering” of its $55 billion/month quantitative easing program into a more formal exit strategy. The Fed is still actively expanding its balance sheet, but by a smaller amount after every FOMC meeting (so far)… and global markets are already nervously anticipating any move to sell QE-era assets or explicitly raise rates. Just like China’s slowdown (which we have written about extensively), the Fed’s eventual exit will be a global event with major implications for the rest of the world. And US rate normalization could drastically disrupt cross-border real interest rate differentials and trigger the strongest wave of emerging-market balance of payments crises since the 1930s. In the United Kingdom, Bank of England Governor Mark Carney is carefully broadcasting his intent to hike rates before selling QE-era assets. According to his view, financial markets tend to respond rather mechanically to rate hikes, but unwinding the BoE’s bloated balance sheet could trigger a series of unintended and potentially destructive consequences. Delaying those asset sales indefinitely and leaning on rate targeting once more allows him to guide the BoE toward tightening without giving up the ability to rapidly reverse course if financial markets freeze. Then again, Carney may be making a massive, credibility-cracking mistake.  While the BoJ &amp; ECB Are Just Getting Started In Japan, Bank of Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda is resisting the equity market’s call for additional asset purchases as the Abe administration implements its national sales tax increase – precisely the same mistake that triggered Japan’s 1997 recession. As I have written repeatedly, Japan is the most leveraged government in the world, with a government debt-to-GDP ratio of more than 240%. Against the backdrop of a roughly $6 trillion economy, Japan needs to inflate away something like 150% to 200% of its current debt-to-GDP… that’s roughly $9 trillion to $12 trillion in today’s dollars. Think about that for a moment. At some point I need to do a whole letter on this, but I seriously believe the Bank of Japan will print something on the order of $8 trillion (give or take) over the next six to ten years. In relative terms, this is the equivalent of the US Federal Reserve printing $32 trillion. To think this will have no impact on the world is simply to ignore how capital flows work. Japan is a seriously large economy with a seriously powerful central bank. This is not Greece or Argentina. This is going to do some damage. I have no idea whether Japan’s BANG! moment is just around the corner or still several years off, but rest assured that Governor Kuroda and his colleagues at the Bank of Japan will respond to economic weakness with more… and more… and more easing over the coming years. In the euro area, European Central Bank Chairman Mario Draghi – with unexpected support from his two voting colleagues from the German Bundesbank – is finally signaling that more quantitative easing may be on the way to lower painfully high exchange rates that constrain competitiveness and to raise worryingly low inflation rates that can precipitate a debt crisis by steepening debt-growth trajectories. This QE will be disguised under the rubric of fighting inflation, and all sorts of other euphemisms will be applied to it, but at the end of the day, Europe will have joined in an outright global currency war. I don’t expect the Japanese and Europeans to engage in modest quantitative easing. Both central banks are getting ready to hit the panic button in response to too-low inflation, steepening debt trajectories, and inconveniently strong exchange rates. While the Federal Reserve, European Central Bank, Swiss National Bank, Bank of England, and Bank of Japan have collectively grown their balance sheets to roughly $9 trillion today, the next wave of asset purchases could more than double that balance in relatively quick order. This is what I mean by Code Red: frantic pounding on the central bank panic button that invites tit-for-tat retaliation around the world and especially by emerging-market central banks, leading to a DOUBLING of the assets shown in the chart below and a race to the bottom, as the “guardians” of the world’s primary currencies become their executioners.  The opportunity for a significant policy mistake from a major central bank is higher today than ever. I share Bill White’s concern about Japan. I worry about China and seriously hope they can keep their deleveraging and rebalancing under control, although I doubt that many parts of the world are ready for a China that only grows at 3 to 4% for the next five years. That will cause a serious adjustment in many business and government models. It is time to hit the send button, but let me close with the point that was made graphically in the Bank of England’s chart back in the middle of the letter. Once central bank asset purchases cease, the BoE expects real asset prices to fall… a lot. You will notice that there is no scale on the vertical axis and no timeline along the bottom of the chart. No one really knows the timing. My friend Doug Kass has an interview (subscribers only) in Barron’s this week, talking about how to handle what he sees as a bubble. “Sell in May and go away” might be a very good adage to remember. Amsterdam, Brussels, Geneva, San Diego, Rome, and Tuscany I leave Tuesday night for Amsterdam to speak on Thursday afternoon for VBA Beleggingsprofessionals. There will be a debate-style format around the theme of “Are there any safe havens left in this volatile world?” I plan to write my letter from Amsterdam on Friday and then play tourist on Saturday in that delightful city full of wonderful museums. Then, if all goes well, I will rent a car and take a leisurely drive to Brussels through the countryside, something I have always wanted to do. I may try to get lost, at least for a few hours. Who knows what you might stumble on? I will be speaking Monday night in Brussels for my good friend Geert Wellens of Econopolis Wealth Management before we fly to Geneva for another speech with his firm, and of course there will be the usual meetings with clients and friends. I find Geneva the most irrationally expensive city I travel to, and the current exchange rates don’t suggest I will find anything different this time. I come back for a few days before heading to San Diego and my Strategic Investment Conference, cosponsored with Altegris. I have spent time with each of the speakers over the last few weeks, going over their topics, and I have to tell you, I am like a kid in a candy store, about as excited as I can get. This is going to be one incredible conference. You really want to make an effort to get there, but if you can’t, be sure to listen to the audio CDs.  You can get a discounted rate by purchasing prior to the conference. The Dallas weather may be an analogy for the current economic environment. To look out my window is to see nothing but blue sky with puffy little clouds, and the temperature is perfect. My good friend and business partner Darrell Cain will be arriving in a little bit for a late lunch. We’ll go somewhere and sit outside and then move on to an early Dallas Mavericks game against the San Antonio Spurs. Contrary to expectations, the Mavs actually trounced the Spurs down in San Antonio last week. Of course the local fans would like to see that trend continue, but I would not encourage my readers to place any bets on the Mavericks’ winning the current playoff series. I live only a few blocks from American Airlines Center, and so normally on such a beautiful day we would leisurely walk to the game. But the local weather aficionados are warning us that while we are at the game tornadoes and hail may appear, along with the attendant severe thunderstorms. That kind of thing can happen in Texas. Then again, it could all blow south of here. That sort of thing also happens. So when I warn people of an impending potential central bank policy mistake, which would be the economic equivalent of tornadoes and hail storms, I also have to acknowledge that the whole thing could blow away and miss us entirely. I think someone once said that the role of economists is to make weathermen look good. Recently, 67 out of 67 economists said they expect interest rates to rise this year. We’ll review that prediction at the end of the year. I’ve been interrupted while trying to finish this letter by daughter Tiffani, who is frantically trying to figure out how to buy tickets to get us to Italy (Tuscany) for the first part of June for a little vacation (along with a few friends who will be visiting). I am going to take advantage of being in Rome at the end of that trip, in order to spend a few days with my friend Christian Menegatti, the managing director of research for Roubini Global Economics. We will spend June 16-17  visiting with local businessmen, economists, central bankers, and politicians. Or that’s the plan. If you’d like to be part of that visit, drop me a note. Finally I should note that my Canadian partners, Nicola Wealth Management, are opening a new office in Toronto. They will be having a special event there on May 8. If you’re in the area, you may want to check it out. Have a great week, and make sure you take a little time to enjoy life. Avoid tornadoes. Your hoping for a major upset analyst, John Mauldin, Editorsubscribers@mauldineconomics.com   Special Report from Patrick Cox: How to Invest in a Cutting-Edge Energy Breakthrough for Less than $1.00 a Share   This article originally appeared at Thoughts From The Frontline.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVHoward Marks.Billionaire asset manager Howard Marks, the chairman and co-founder of Oaktree Capital, was on Bloomberg TV today talking about what it means to "be great" when it comes to investing.  Marks, who's famous on the Street for his widely read investor letters, recently put out his "Dare to Be Great II" memo. His first "Dare to Be Great" memo came out in 2006. "The big question is how much of your time, effort, and capital — and self-esteem — will you risk in the effort of trying to be right?  And how much will you spend trying to avoid being wrong? They are two different things. And in order to be — to have a shot at being really right — you got to have a shot at being really wrong," he said.  Essentially, to be great, you have to be different and willing to fail. Marks' observation can be applied broadly. But his letter was really tailored for investors. "Most great investments begin in discomfort," he wrote. "The things most people feel good about — investments where the underlying premise is widely accepted, the recent performance has been positive and the outlook is rosy — are unlikely to be available at bargain prices. Rather, bargains are usually found among things that are controversial, that people are pessimistic about, and that have been performing badly of late." Here's a transcript from Bloomberg TV:  STEPHANIE RUHLE:  Now I’m excited for this next segment.  How can investors achieve superior results?  We are asking one of Wall Street's greatest minds, Howard Marks.  He’s the founder and chairman of Oaktree Capital.  He is well-known for his memos to clients and his latest -- “Daring Investors to Be Great”.  Actually, “Daring Investors to Be Great 2”.  It’s the second edition.  His first was just a few years ago.  We’re going to find out what he means. Howard, welcome.  It’s not just Erik and I who are fans of these letters.  Warren Buffet himself has said how much he loves them.  So here you are, out with your latest, “Dare to be Great 2”.  What does that mean?  HOWARD MARKS:  Well, it’s directed primarily, Stephanie, at professional investors who have to be concerned with how they’ll be perceived.  And I wrote “Dare to Be Great 1” in ’06 and I’ve been thinking about it and everybody dares to be great.  I mean, who wouldn’t dare to have great performance?  The real question I ask in the memo is do you dare to do the things you have to do to be great?  RUHLE:  What are those things?  MARKS:  Do you dare to be different?  Do you dare to be wrong?  And do you dare to look wrong?  Because you have to dare to be all three of those in order to have a shot at great results.  ERIK SCHATZKER:  Howard, you say everyones dares to be great -- maybe everybody dreams.  RUHLE:  Ah. SCHATZKER:  Of being great. MARKS:  Well said.   SCHATZKER:  It’s pretty certain that not everybody dares to be great because so many money managers just bat average, right? MARKS:  I guess what I mean is they’re willing to be great.  SCHATZKER:  Or they would love to be great.  MARKS:  Yes. SCHATZKER:  So let's go into more detail about what it takes to be great.  What do most money managers do, most institutional investors, what do they do?  And then what do the ones who stand out from the rest of the crowd do?  MARKS:  Well, I think that -- the big question is how much of your time, effort, and capital will you -- and self-esteem will you risk in the effort of trying to be right?  And how much will you spend trying to avoid being wrong?  They are two different things.  And in order to be -- have a shot at being really right, you got to have a shot at being really wrong.   RUHLE:  So right now, for example, where would one say we’re seeing people trying hard to get it right, daring to be different?  MARKS:  I think that the people who are buying the social media stocks at the very high prices are trying to be great.  They’re trying to -- they have seen it go from $10 to $40, and now they want to go from $40 to $200.  Clearly -- I mean I can’t imagine they think it’s a low risk strategy, but I think most people drive, look in the rearview mirror, they see what’s happened, they’re dreaming of an extrapolation.  RUHLE:  Well, aren’t they afraid to not be on the train?  Last year when so many people saw the fundamental problems with the economy, they were fools if they weren’t long on the market, so they piled in just so they wouldn’t underperform the S&amp;P.  MARKS:  Well, there is -- I mean, the fear of being out of step is a great fear, and I believe that perhaps the most corrosive of all human emotions is having to sit there and watch other people make money when you’re not.  And then of course if you’re a professional and other people make money and you’re not, then you could lose your accounts, lose your job, whatever it might take.  SCHATZKER:  OK, there’s no question you are right.  You feel that way, lots of people feel that way.  Why is it then that the majority, the vast majority, of investors aren’t willing to take those risks?   MARKS:  Well, because if you take the risks to try to be right, you know you’re not going to be right 100 percent --  SCHATZKER:  You could be wrong.  MARKS:  You could be wrong.  And if you are wrong a few times in a row, then you look at it, maybe you lose your job, maybe you lose your client.  SCHATZKER:  Well, that’s what I was going to say.  Is it because they’re chicken?  They’re about worried about losing their jobs, which, let’s be honest, is a legitimate fear for many people?  Or is it because in some cases -- or it is a combination of the two? -- their clients won't let them.  MARKS:  Well --  SCHATZKER:  I mean, all clients in theory, all -- whoever they are, pension funds, endowments, the folks who sign up institutional investors to manage their money, want great returns.  But they too are concerned -- (CROSSTALK)  MARKS:  They don’t really want great returns, they want good enough returns.  Most of our clients in the professional world constrain us.  They say you can only have so much per company, so much per industry, so much per country, and we spend a lot of time negotiating these constraints.  They don’t say, oh, if you think that China’s great, put all the money in there.  They say, oh, you like China?  You’re allowed to put in up to 6 percent, you know?  Because if you put in all the money, you could be wrong.  I say in the memo, and I think the one thing that I’ve carried around that occasioned a return to the topic, was my conviction based on my experience -- that the main role among investing institutions, pension funds, endowments, sovereign wealth funds, et cetera, insurance companies -- "we would never do so much of something that, if it turned out to be a mistake, we would look bad. " Now, that makes perfect sense.  Nobody wants to look bad.  However --  RUHLE:  How do you hit a home run?  MARKS:  Well, that’s the point.  If you -- you have to accept that the converse is "we would never do enough so that if it turns out to be a good thing, we’ll move the needle."  The two have to go together.  You can’t do enough to make a difference on the upside but not enough to get you into trouble on the downside.  And almost everything in investing is symmetrical.  And it’s the symmetry that people are leery of.  It’s not -- they’re not, as you point out, Erik, they're not afraid to make money, they’re not afraid to be great.  They’re afraid to have a big mistake on their hands.  RUHLE:  You say most great investments start with discomfort.  MARKS:  Yes, that’s right.  RUHLE:  Is there an investment right now that feels uncomfortable?  MARKS:  There’s nothing that is sufficiently out-of-favor today, and sufficiently neglected, to be a great buy. I continue to believe that public money is flooding in to the risky sectors, supporting the prices, and the -- and supporting the prices  from my standpoint, I’m not -- that is not a good thing, that is a bad thing, which means making them expensive.  Where’s the public money not going. Where can't it go? Private investments. Only the pros really can make private investments.  RUHLE:  They’re the only ones with access.   MARKS:  That’s right. Well, and there are no mutual funds or ETFs for private debt, for example, or very few. And so I think that private investments are more shunned or less popular, and thus cheaper than public investments.  SCHATZKER:  If the success of your approach to investing relies on finding these uncomfortable areas of credit markets, is it a good thing or a bad thing for things like ETFs that invest in private credit to emerge?  Do you want to see more money chasing these -- so that more people have an opportunity to find these uncomfortable options?  MARKS:  No, I’m not in favor of democracy in this regard. I’d like to have these markets myself.   (LAUGHTER) MARKS:  It’s unlikely. If you go back 36 years ago, when I started Citibank’s high yield bond fund, most people wouldn’t do them, they called them junk funds.  RUHLE:  For a reason. MARKS:  90 percent of -- no, for a bad reason, Stephanie, but 90 percent of investing organizations had a rule These things were considered imprudent and improper and Moody’s said "fails to possess the characteristics of a desirable investment."  Most people would -- SCHATZKER:  Prudent is a bad word in investing, isn’t it? MARKS:  It is. It’s a limiting word, because it’s a value judgement.  And 36 years ago, people would say, oh, I would never invest enough. Maybe you could make a lot of money, but it wouldn’t be right.  Today, within the bounds of reason and legality, I hope, everybody will do anything to make a buck. So there are very few of these orphaned markets today. That makes it harder for us to find spectacular bargains.   RUHLE: Anything to make a buck. I don’T want to get into any of the details of it, but for you who is so thoughtful in every word that you write, when Michael Lewis had the headline “The market is rigged,” what was your response? How did you feel? MARKS:  I thought that was hyperbole. I thought it was an exaggeration. What he’s talking about is hundredths of a cent per share. And so it’s not right, it’s not fair, but it doesn’t mean you can’t make money in the market. It doesn’t mean that you think you’re going to make 20 percent but you’re really only going to make 6. It means you think you’re going to make 20?  Well, you’re only going to make 19.96 percent.  And -- that's number one. And number two, I think it really only applies to big institutional orders. Those are the ones that send the fast traders systems signals that more buying is coming, and those are the ones you can take advantage of. But the mom and pop who puts in for 100 shares, 1,000 shares, and gets their order done, they’re not, I don’t think, being ripped off.  So I thought it was an exaggeration.  RUHLE:  Finally, a thoughtful, experienced, fantastic response to a headline we’ve all been screaming about  for two weeks.  Watch below:    FREE AppDownload
Cold brew has become the go-to summertime drink for caffeine addicts. Making it yourself isn't complicated, but it does involve letting the brew steep overnight. However, if you're looking for a quicker fix, try this simple recipe for Japanese-style cold brew. Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis.
 We gave our Person of the Year award for 2013 to Satoshi Nakamoto, the pseudonymous creator of Bitcoin. We know some of you laughed.  If you did, you may want to read on. It's becoming increasingly clear that Satoshi's creation has the potential to change how much of commerce itself works, and for reasons not even many Bitcoin fans realize. By many accounts, Satoshi came up with a real-world solution to a longstanding computer science paradox known as the double-spend problem, or the Byzantine General's problem (the professor who named it explains why he did so here). The challenge is how to send and receive money online without the need for a trusted third party, such as PayPal, ensuring that the same digital credit standing in for the amount being exchanged isn't being spent twice.  In the real world, this problem gets avoided with cash, which is quite difficult to counterfeit. In practice, digital counterfeiting is much easier.  Satoshi's solution was what has become known as the blockchain: a ledger of all transactions owned and monitored by everyone but ultimately controlled by none. It's like a giant interactive spreadsheet everyone has access to and updates to confirm each digital credit is unique.  It is this technology that programmers are now working to deploy for uses that go far beyond Bitcoin. Satoshi does not appear to have been looking to solve this problem when he created Bitcoin. But his design for the blockchain, which he spelled out in his 2008 Bitcoin spec paper (PDF), has profound implications. "For the first time, two people can exchange a piece of digital property, without any prior relationship, and in a secure way, over the Internet," Jeff Garzik, one of Bitcoin's core developers (now employed by payment processor BitPay) told Business Insider. "As a computer scientist, and in computer science in general, when you talked about building distributed systems, there tended to be a purely theoretical view about how computers would talk to each other, how to keep them coordinated. Satoshi and the blockchain really solved that problem in an elegant and unexpected way. "I don't think the computer science community has really caught up yet," Garzik said. The breakthrough means that, theoretically, any act of commerce on the Web can be decentralized and stripped of a controlling authority.  Perhaps the most straightforward example of a post-Bitcoin service using Satoshi's blockchain is Proof of Existence. Created by Manuel Araoz, a 25-year-old developer in Argentina, the site allows you to upload a file to certify that you had custody of it at a given time. Neither its contents nor your own personal information are ever revealed — rather, all the data in the document gets digested into an encrypted number. Proof of Existence is built on top of the Bitcoin blockchain (there's a 0.005 BTC fee), so the thousands of computers on that network have now collectively verified your file. Proof Of Existence A slightly more politicized application of the blockchain is a project called Namecoin.  Currently, the international nonprofit ICANN governs nearly all top-level Web address domains such as ".com."  But three years ago, engineers developed Namecoin, which serves as a new domain-name system for registering Web addresses that end in ".bit." In this case, instead of ICANN controlling the domain name system, you and all the other people in the Namecoin system control the domain names.  Again, blockchain technology makes it so that something that previously required a centralized authority can now be managed via community.  At this point, payment processors like Western Union probably have the most to fear from blockchain competition, according to Gil Luria, a managing director at Wedbush Securities covering financial technology. You may have heard this before, but Luria explained why the blockchain is the true threat: Most processors use hub-and-spoke models, he said, which are able to charge fees for crossing jurisdictions, and for smaller transaction amounts. Decentralizing and distributing the network gets rid of all that. "It’s a much more competitive business model," Luria told us by phone. "Instead of paying 5% to 10% in fees to Western Union, you're going to be 2% to 3%, possibly even less. Rob Wile/Paul Baran A startup called Ripple represents the most active threat to the mega-processors. (We profiled Ripple, and the group that created it, last month.) Computers all familiar with each other on Ripple's network mutually agree on changes to its blockchain (Ripple calls it a "ledger"). This allows transactions to be processed instantly and without a third party. It's even faster than the Bitcoin network, because everyone using the Ripple ledger gets their own copy of the whole ledger, in contrast with the nodes on the Bitcoin network all sharing a single one.  The blockchain is even stalking credit-card companies. In an interview in Goldman Sachs' note on Bitcoin last March, Fred Ehrsam, the CEO of mega-Bitcoin payment processor Coinbase, observed that a Bitcoin-like payment network would solve the problem of having your credit-card info stored with a big-box retailer like Target. Even sending money through Venmo, the app that lets you text your friends for picking up dinner that one time, still takes five days to clear. Of course, it's possible the existing financial behemoths could adopt their own blockchain technologies. In the same Goldman note, Goldman information technology services analyst Roman Leal writes that, "just as a flurry of new entrants — such as Square, Groupon, and PayPal — encouraged payment networks and payment processors to develop a mobile payments strategy, we expect traditional payment players to develop digital currency strategies."  Two groups, BitShares and Ethereum, are hoping to blockchain-ify ... everything. BitShares founder and CEO Daniel Larimer has his eye on stock exchanges, voting, music distribution, and so on. He calls such futuristic entities distributed autonomous corporations. To use the music example, Larimer envisions artists having the ability to issue shares in their own songs, encouraging fans to spread the tune far and wide to increase returns.  "We give power to shareholders without centralizing in any way, because we’ve eliminated the barriers to entry for starting a company," Larimer told us at the recent Inside Bitcoins conference. (Incidentally, he said having a conference called Inside Bitcoins was akin to having a conference called Inside AltaVista.)  There are, of course, loads of technological and regulatory hurdles that must still be overcome for all of this to materialize. And there are plenty of things that could be reset on a blockchain. But investors don't seem too concerned: Marc Andreessen (who invests in Business Insider) and Fred Wilson are betting big in this space. In a recent blog post, Wilson equated the breakthrough blockchain represents to the Web browser and social media. He refers to this moment as the blockchain cycle: Our 2004 fund was built during social. Our 2008 fund was built during social and the emergence of mobile. Our 2012 fund was built during the mobile downturn. And our 2014 fund will be built during the blockchain cycle. I am looking forward to it. "I think we see every week now somewhere between one and three entrepreneurs come in with blockchain ideas," Andreessen Horowitz's Chris Dixon told Business Insider. "There's definitely some momentum behind it." We'll leave you with an extremely futuristic example of how the blockchain could be deployed.  In a talk given last fall at the Turing festival, Mike Hearn, a former Google employee who quit his job to work full-time on Bitcoin, laid out this scenario: A 20-something Scottish girl named Jen wants to meet up with her friends downtown. She doesn't own a car — no one does in the future — so she dials up a cab through a network Hearn calls TradeNet.   YoutubeMike Hearn at the Turing Festival.Jen's request acts as a request-for-bid on TradeNet, and all the robot cabs available start automatically posting offers, like on an exchange. Jen's node then ranks the bids and presents them to Jen based on criteria including price but also things like whether she's used that cab before and what other people have said about it. All of this is done on a distributed blockchain system, so no centralized taxi company needs to manage the orders. The blockchain, by the way, will have improved that recommendation process, Hearn says. Currently, many recommendation systems at places like Yelp or Seamless say they use your social network to help you choose services. In practice, they end up producing what amounts to spam reviews, since it's unlikely a friend you trust will have reviewed the same service you're looking into. Hearn says cryptography — without which Bitcoin couldn't exist — has helped reduce spam by providing more authoritative, useful authentication. In this future scenario, the roads on which Jen is driving will have also become autonomous actors, doing trades with the car on TradeNet. They can submit bids to the car about how much they're going to charge to use them. If she's in a hurry, Jen can choose a road that's a bit more expensive but which will allow her to get into the city faster.   Awesome, right?  "This is possible because of Bitcoin," Hearn says. "Bitcoin has no intermediaries, therefore there's really nothing to stop a computer from just connecting to the Internet and taking part all by itself. All you need to do to instantiate a Bitcoin wallet is generate a large random number."   Hearn gives other examples of where the TradeNet could be deployed, like buying fruit and vegetables, or units of computation time if you're buying clouds services. Any transactions that are fast, lightweight, and commoditized — which the current system Hearn says is bad at — could be done so much better on the Blockchain. The entirety of Hearn's talk is pretty amazing, and we recommend you watch it. With a handful of exceptions, like Proof of Existence, it's too early to see fully functional applications of blockchain technology. Ripple, for instance, is still courting financial institutions that would benefit from using its payment rail. Bitcoin's main developers are still figuring out ways to tweak its protocol without bringing down the entire network. And of course there remain a host of outstanding regulatory issues that will need to get sorted out before massive expansion of these proposed services can occur. The blockchain helps end the debate about what Bitcoin is. There's been discussion about whether Bitcoin is a currency, a commodity, or a technological protocol. There are good arguments for each categorization, but each is unsatisfying in some way. Now we know why this debate is so unsatisfying. Bitcoin represents a novel form of organization — a blockchain-based entity — that's not quite like anything seen before it.   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kai PfaffenbachA man uses his mobile phone to take a picture of the euro sculpture outside the head quarters of the European Central Bank (ECB) in Frankfurt.LONDON (Reuters) - Fears of euro zone deflation, emerging markets turmoil and a determination not to repeat past mistakes mean European regulators are likely to come up with the toughest set of tests for the region's banks that they have ever faced. The European Banking Authority (EBA) will on Tuesday reveal the crisis scenarios that banks will have to prove they can withstand without resorting to the kind of taxpayer bailouts that all but bankrupted some countries in the 2008-2012 crisis. Banks that fall short of capital under the imagined scenarios will have to produce a plan to boost their reserves by raising fresh funds from investors, selling assets or hanging on to profits instead of paying dividends. Banks have already raised billions in capital and made other reforms ahead of the tests, which regulators hope will finally banish any investor doubts about the industry and allow it to refocus on lending to boost growth. The European economy has rallied since the last round of bank stress tests three years ago and sharply lower borrowing rates for countries such as Greece - which can now borrow five year money at an interest rate below 5 percent against the 20 percent it was paying when the 2011 tests were done - support the idea that the worst of the euro zone crisis has passed. But with widespread criticism heaped on 2010 and 2011 stress tests for being too soft, and new risks on the horizon, regulators are likely to set tougher conditions all the same. "The key is that the scenario is at least as deep and dark as the great recession, the financial crisis of 2008/2009," said Mark Zandi, Philadelphia-based chief economist at Moody's Analytics. "You can easily conceive a scenario as severe as what we went through." AS TOUGH AS THE U.S. Figures leaked ahead of Tuesday's announcement show regulators are taking a tougher line on economic growth than in 2011, when 18 of the EU's 27 countries at that time posted weaker growth than the "adverse" case they were tested against for 2012. The most dramatic miss was Greece, where an adverse scenario of a 1.2 percent contraction in real gross domestic product (GDP) proved far more optimistic than the 7 percent contraction that actually occurred. "One of the key areas is the nature of the GDP stress, and how that is dispersed between jurisdictions," said Stephen Smith, head of KPMG's taskforce on the review of European banks. One source with knowledge of the scenarios said there was a case for applying tougher scenarios for countries that had not yet had major crises, since those nations had further to fall - an idea that would be contested by countries such as Germany. "A way of fudging it is to be too generous with growth forecasts for the periphery," said Colin McLean, chief executive at Edinburgh-based SVM Asset Management. "(The market will accept it) as long as the overall GDP assumption is more stringent than the last time and looks like it's in line with the U.S." The last version of the U.S. stress tests set the adverse scenario for domestic GDP at as much as 4.7 percentage points worse than the expected scenario for one quarter, though the average gap was closer to 2 percentage points. The EU tests have a gap of between 1.5 percentage points and 2.2 percentage points between the base and the adverse cases. Analysts view economic growth as the most significant factor in the stress tests, with KPMG's Smith noting that losses on banks' mortgages and business loans would be primarily driven by GDP projections, as well as assumptions around unemployment. OTHER STRESSES The treatment of others issues, such as government bonds, will also be important, analysts and bankers said. The 2011 tests were criticized for not appropriately measuring the risk of banks' government bond holdings, because they did not test whether banks could withstand a sovereign default similar to the one Greece ultimately enacted. Neil Williamson, head of EMEA credit research at Aberdeen Asset Management, said another new factor in this year's tests was the deflationary environment the euro zone could be facing. Annualized inflation in the euro zone stood at just 0.5 percent in March, its lowest level since 2009, and fears about deflation - where prices fall - are rife. Williamson said deflation would hit borrowers' ability to make loan repayments to banks. New lending would also likely fall as consumers would be reluctant to borrow to fund the purchase of an asset that would be cheaper in the future. "It's clear that deflation is going to be a risk overall at a macro level, but whether they actually push that far enough (is unclear) ... I suspect they will focus more on GDP," said SVM Asset Management's McLean. In previous stress tests, banks used expected earnings from activities in emerging markets to cushion the blow of an imagined recession in Europe. But recent crises engulfing Russia and Ukraine make this less plausible now, and some banks even expect to be tested against specific emerging market stresses. "What's going on in the emerging markets is a real threat to the developed world," said Moody's Analytics' Zandi. "Many of the high-flying economies are coming back to earth." An interest rate test - or how banks would survive if low interest rates continue to squeeze margins - is another scenario Aberdeen's Williamson expects to see included. CHANGING CONCERNS While the EBA's latest information on the stress tests is likely to give investors and analysts some insights into how tough the tests are going to be, it is unlikely to allow them to draw any conclusions about their likely outcome. "I strongly doubt we will get enough detail from the announcement on scenarios for the market to be able to reverse engineer the tests," said one analyst who asked not to be named. Working out which banks will pass and fail, and by what margin, is not everyone's objective anyway. "What we're looking for is relevance of the scenarios, do they address what we believe is the risk on the ground?" said Aberdeen's Williamson. Investor views of those risks have shifted hugely since the last tests were done, he said, pointing out that investors were very worried about "tail risk" - or low probability negative events - back in 2011, but are now so confident in the state of European banking that they're willing to accept an interest rate of 4.5 percent from National Bank of Greece &lt;NBGr.AT&gt;. That begs the question of how much attention investors will pay to the EBA's findings. "It's quite staggering how far we've come," Williamson said. "Investors will increasingly come to ignore these scenarios." (Editing by Mark Potter) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersU.S. President Obama speaks next to Malaysian PM Razak during joint news conference at Perdana Putra Building in PutrajayaKUALA LUMPUR (Reuters) - U.S. President Barack Obama said on Sunday that the rights of Myanmar's minority Muslim population were not being fully protected and warned that the Southeast Asian country would not succeed if Muslims there were oppressed. On a visit to Malaysia, Obama praised political reforms under way in once-isolated Myanmar but said the danger of democratization was that it could unleash religious and ethnic conflicts and that such developments could move Myanmar in a bad direction. "You have a Muslim minority (in Myanmar) … that the broader population has historically looked down upon and whose rights are not being fully protected," Obama told a townhall-style meeting of young leaders from across Southeast Asia. "Myanmar won't succeed if the Muslim population is oppressed." Members of Myanmar's Rohingya Muslim minority have been the victims of attacks and widespread abuse in recent years blamed by human rights groups and other observers on security forces and anti-Muslim mobs in the country's Rakhine state. (Reporting By Matt Spetalnick; Editing by Michael Perry) FREE AppDownload
