BEIJING (Reuters) - Activity in China's services industry ticked up in February from a 2-1/2-year low the previous month, a private survey showed on Wednesday, confirming other data showing a pick-up in services even as manufacturing activity slows. The HSBC/Markit Services Purchasing Managers' Index (PMI) rose to 51.0 in February from January's 50.7, buoyed by new orders, remaining above the 50 line that separates expansion from contraction. The rise tallied with the official non-manufacturing PMI, released earlier in the week, which showed activity at a three-month high, and contrasted with two surveys that showed manufacturing activity slowed in the month. "February data signalled stronger expansions of business activity and new work at Chinese service-sector firms," HSBC/Markit said in a statement. "That said, the rates of growth remained subdued in the context of historical data." The data came as Premier Li Keqiang told China's annual parliament session that expanding domestic demand will be a major economic driver and an important structural adjustment as the country pushes ahead with reforms to promote consumer-led growth. The PMI found that service-sector firms remained optimistic in February, generally expecting business activity to be higher than current levels in one year. (Reporting by Jonathan Standing; Editing by John Mair) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jon WooChinese solar company Shanghai Chaori Solar Energy Science and Technology Company announced that it can not pay interests in the amount of 89.8 million yuan (approx $14.6 million) on its 11 Chaori bond, that are due on March 7. Instead, the company said it can only pay bondholders 4 million yuan. The 11 Chaori bond was first issued in March 2012 with a coupon of 8.98%, with annual interest due on March 7 every year. But the solar company became another victim of China's excess capacity problem. The first signs of trouble began to emerge in January 2013 when the company nearly became the first domestic company to have a bond default. At the time though, Shanghai’s Fengxian district stepped in and asked Chaori’s banks to defer claims in the amount of 380 million. And to top it off there were reports that the Chairman had taken off with the company money. The new announcement makes Chaori the first default of an onshore bond, Bank of America's Ting Lu writes in a note to clients.  A silver lining But the bond default might actually be a good thing. "A normal economy needs defaults to better price bonds and other debt products," writes Ting.  We have previously pointed out that this can actually help investors have more information to better price risk.  "If you talk to anyone in China, if you talk to them about the prospect of a financial crisis, the first thing out of their mouths will be that the government will never let that happen," Patrick Chovanec at Silvercrest Asset Management told Business Insider in January. "And until you shake that belief you won't have efficient allocation of resources." "At some point the financial system does have to turn the corner, where there's real risk and there's real pricing of risk," Chovanec added. Ting also says investors needn't be anxious for other reasons.  "Defaults of some debt products are not on a similar scale to a collapse of a major financial institution. As we think corporate bonds and incoming trust loan defaults will not lead to a credit crunch, and we are reasonably confident with our 7.6% GDP growth forecast for this year." That being said, the news has caused corporate bonds to fall, and is "a negative for riskier debt products," writes Ting.  With China's corporate bond market sitting at 8.7 trillion yuan outstanding, up from 800 billion yuan at the end of 2007, Beijing needs to step up the game on its bankruptcy law.  Societe Generale's Wei Yao has previously warned that as local governments struggle with their own financial needs and burdens they could let go of troubled corporates and that stress will emerge in bond markets and trust products. As Beijing moves to curb local government debt, clean up its financial market, and push through reforms, Ting warns that we should expect bond and trust loan defaults to rise "significantly" this year. FREE AppDownload
A long way from the days of stale pretzels and nachos with runny cheese, stadium concession stands today offer up fancy fare, no better exhibited than by the newest arena to host NBA games, the Barclays Center. From smoky brisket dogs to mango and cod tacos, to a namesake option called the Brooklyn Burger. The burger, which is advertised as being made from the venue's own signature beef, actually is produced by a decades-old company that—despite generating tens of millions in revenue—has fallen into financial trouble. Lemonis, a turnaround specialist who's changed the fate of hundreds of businesses as the CEO of Camping World, now does the same for small businesses on CNBC's"The Profit." He scrutinizes A. Stein Meat while deciding whether or not to invest in it. "What I found at Stein Meat is [they] have an insolvency problem. And what I mean by that is that their liabilities, what they owe to people, is significantly greater than their assets," he said. A case of 'bright and shiny object syndrome' Jumping into a new project or launching one without really thinking the entire process through can kill a business. Andrew Sherman, a partner at Jones Day who for more than two decades has provided legal and strategic advice to large and small companies, calls this problem the "bright and shiny object syndrome." "It's when the entrepreneur or business leader suffers from a lack of focus by spending time, money, staff and resources on the next thing that excites them," he said. "And it manifests into a financial trap." A. Stein made this very mistake when it branched off and invested $2 million in creating the Brooklyn Burger, instead of focusing on its main business and paying down its debt, according to Lemonis.  The company spends $400,000 marketing the burger, even though it only generates $1 million in sales annually, according to Lemonis.  Scrutinize cash flow in and out  Managing accounts receivable to accounts payable might sound simple, but it isn't always.  A. Stein Meat has nearly $4 million in receivables, of which more than a million dollars is more than five weeks old, with some of it due from companies that no longer exist or no longer buy the company's product.  "A lot of companies get into trouble when they're not collecting at rates they need to meet expenses. They augment the problem with financing, but the cost of capital gets too expense relative to cash flow," Sherman said.  And maintaining the proper working capital is necessary for financial success.  Manage margins properly  Knowing the cost to produce a product and the retail price at which that good will sell, or the margin, is vital to avoiding financial peril, Lemonis said.  He suggests cutting production costs by negotiating better terms with vendors. Always pay them on time and ask for a discount for doing so. Work with less of them, thus giving each more business, and in return negotiating a volume discount.  Perform thorough research when setting margins. Keep retail prices in-line with competitors in the market to retain customers, and go even further to create incentives for them to buy more.  Every penny counts  While it's much sexier to talk about increasing sales by 30 percent than it is to talk about slashing expenses, focusing on the former metrics can be detrimental. Expense management, cutting costs and scrutinizing beyond the big line items of rent and payroll, to examine smaller items like utilities, fuel, supplies and travel expenses is essential to success, according to Lemonis.  "I've never believed that you can cut your way to a profit. But I do believe that you can throw your profits in the trash can if you're not focused on expenses," he said. —By CNBC's Jeanine Ibrahim. Tune into season two of "The Profit" on CNBC Prime, Tuesdays at 10 p.m. ET/PT. 		More from CNBC:														Obama: I don't like Ebola quarantines. NJ/NY: We do																Ford tries to charge up electric sales																I'm betting on Detroit: Dan Gilbert																Sturdy sales lift US furniture makers																Heirloom grains gain a new following										This article originally appeared at CNBC.  Copyright 2014. Follow CNBC on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersChinese Premier Li speaks during a news conference with French PM Ayrault in BeijingChina is out with its growth target for the next year. The government says that the GDP is targeted for growth of 7.5% and that CPI is targeted at 3.5%. The GDP number is the same as last year's target and it was about as expected. The good news is that Chinese GDP will keep humming along. The bad news is that by setting a target for GDP that's so high, they're not leaving themselves any room to reform the economy, as CNBC's Deirdre Wang Morris explains. Remember, China is trying to steer its economy away from export and investment-led growth to more consumption driven growth. "China will continue to implement a proactive fiscal policy and a prudent monetary policy," Xinhua reported citing a government work report to be delivered by Premier Li Keqiang at the National People's Congress. The one interesting thing to note, is that officials are trying to address the overcapacity problem that resulted from China's investment boom. Wang Morris pointed out that targets for cutting capacity will be brought forward a year ahead of schedule. She said this included shuttering 50,000 small coal-fired industrial furnaces and cutting steel and cement capacity. China announced a string of reforms during its third plenum in November and the Economic Work Conference in December. Markets will be watching for more details on reforms surrounding local government debt, state-owned enterprises (SOEs), and environmental reforms. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Lucas JacksonCan a Reuters reporter who writes about Apple own AAPL? Can she sell her shares if she has a negative, market-moving story dropping the next day? The answer is no, according to Reuters' handbook. The news organization "strongly advises" its journalists to "not engage in short term trading activities of any kind." When it comes to the specific stocks they have covered or may cover in the future, the policy is even more stringent.  "Journalists of all media (and members of their immediate families) must not buy or sell securities of entities about which they have written, commented or reported recently or about which they intend to write, report or comment on in the near future," the handbook reads. "The test is whether the editorial activity might continue to have an impact on the securities, but at a minimum, there should be 28 days (four calendar weeks) between editorial activity and trading of securities." If only the policy at the SEC were as strict. Two researchers recently got ahold of trading records at the agency, finding that SEC employees have a strange knack for avoiding the kind of bad news — say, an investigation — that often derails a stocks price. Emory University professor Shivaram Rajgopal and Georgia State University accounting PhD candidate Roger M. White discovered how SEC employees tend to sell a company's stock right before the SEC takes action against that company.  Stocks sold by SEC employees underperform the market by about 8%, according to the paper. "In short, it appears that SEC employees continue to take advantage of non-public information to trade profitably in stocks under their regulatory purview," they write. And as it turns out, top financial news organizations have stricter trading rules for its reporters than the SEC has for its investigators, the very people tasked with purging the financial industry of insider trading malfeasance. After the new study raised eyebrows, here's how the SEC explained its policy to the Washington Post: "Each of the transactions was individually reviewed and approved in advance by the Ethics office," said John Nester, spokesperson for the SEC. "Most of the sales were required by SEC policy. Staff had no choice. They were required to sell." Nester explained that before staff can work on an issue that involves a company, they have to sell any holdings of stock in that firm. As a result, he said, there shouldn't be any surprise that a sale would precede the announcement of an enforcement action. Alternatively, SEC investigators could just not be allowed to trade. Or as Bloomberg's Matt Levine writes, "put all your individual stocks in a blind trust" would also probably work. By forcing SEC employees to sell the stock of the company they are about to investigate, you get SEC employees avoiding losses by trading on proprietary nonpublic information. The flipside of requiring SEC employees to hold the stock, Levine notes, isn't much better — they would theoretically take it easier on the companies in their investment portfolio. Other ethics policies leave less to the imagination. Bloomberg News has a similar one to Reuters, stressing that "team leaders, bureau chiefs, managing editors, executive editors and the editor-in-chief" should favor independently managed mutual funds over individual stocks. Here's a key excerpt from its ethical gospel, the "Bloomberg Way": Our journalists may not, through a direct buy or sell relationship, acquire any position in any individual equities, bonds or other financial instruments in companies or industries that they cover. Any interests in these companies should be held through mutual funds or through similar arrangements where the decisions to buy, sell or hold the securities are made by an independent money manager or trustee. ...In keeping with the obligation of all Bloomberg LP staff, no news employee may profit from news, data or information learned in the course of employment that has yet to be made public. And in the interest of full disclosure, here's an excerpt of our policy at Business Insider: Journalists who regularly cover business and financial news may not play the market: that is, they may not conduct in-and-out trading, speculate in options or futures or sell securities short. Any of these actions could create an appearance of exploiting information not available to the public. Staff members who regularly cover business aspects of technology or other subjects are also subject to this rule. All Business Insider employees are expected to conduct themselves at all times in a manner that leaves no grounds for belief, or even suspicion that...an employee, an employee’s family, or anyone else connected to an employee made financial gains by acting on the basis of "inside" information obtained through Business Insider employment before that information was available to the general public. Financial reporters, duty bound by their employers, cannot buy or sell a stock that they have reported on. And they cannot sell a stock that they "intend" to report on, thereby avoiding losses that might arise from their reporting.  Investigators at the SEC can. FREE AppDownload
YouTube/wealthtrackRichard BernsteinBusiness Insider is offering a new feature in our "10 Things You Need To Know Before The Opening Bell" email newsletter where we interview top strategists, economists, and traders to get their thoughts on key market questions. Today's interview is with Richard Bernstein, CEO of Richard Bernstein Advisors. BUSINESS INSIDER: To what extent do you think poor weather has impacted this winter’s economic data? RICHARD BERNSTEIN: Who knows, but it is unlikely that the economy just stopped. BI: What’s the big story that nobody is talking about right now? RB: The extreme undervaluation of high yield municipal bonds. Interestingly, in December and January it was more expensive to protect against a Puerto Rico default than it was to protect against a Ukraine default. BI: Are you optimistic about Janet Yellen as Fed chair? RB: People think of the Fed much too narrowly. Yes, they set monetary policy, but the Fed is also supposed to be a regulator.  Greenspan was anti-regulation, and Bernanke had bigger issues on his hands cleaning up Greenspan’s mess.  Yellen might lead the Fed to again be a regulator.  Tighter bank regulation (or even bank regulation period when compared to the Greenspan years) could be a form a tighter monetary policy. BI: The stock market is roaring back to all time highs. Do issues in EM not have as big an impact on U.S. markets as people argued a few weeks ago? RB: The issues in EM actually benefit the US economy. Lower commodity prices, a stronger dollar, and a rush to US assets are all good for the US.  Certainly, it’s not all good for US multinationals, but it could be a very good environment for domestic US stocks. BI: What’s something you’ll be watching this week and next? RB: The Knicks continue to lose. I hope they don’t resign Carmelo… FREE AppDownload
ShutterstockThe Supertree Grove at Gardens by the Bay in SingaporeSingapore is the most expensive city in the world for expatriates, according to new data from the Economist Intelligence Unit. It takes the title from Tokyo, thanks in part to inflation, high transportation costs, high utility costs, and an excess of luxury retailers. Tokyo remains the priciest location for everyday food items, while European cities tend to be priciest for recreation and entertainment. New York City ranked #26 in EIU's ranking, a jump of only one spot from 2013. In comparison, it rose 19 spots the previous year. The survey calculates cost of living based on prices for 160 products and services, including food, clothing, rent, and transportation. Each cost of living index is set in relation to New York's, which is fixed at a base of 100. We've selected a few price points to highlight costs in the world's most expensive cities. FREE AppDownload
REUTERSDr. Paul M. Horn, senior vice-president of IBM Research, discusses the company's plans to build a supercomputer at a press conference in New York December 6, 1999.One of the long-term components of the Dow Jones Industrial Average has been IBM. The company was originally added to the Dow Jones Industrials on March 26, 1932 in a reshuffle involving eight stocks including Coca-Cola, Nash Motors (later American Motors) and Proctor &amp; Gamble. On March 13, 1939, however, both IBM and Nash Motors were removed from the average and replaced by American Telephone &amp; Telegraph and United Aircraft Corp (now United Technologies). AT&amp;T was in the Dow Jones Utilities Average until June 1, 1938. Until then, the Dow committee had interpreted utilities in a broader sense to include electric, gas, and communications companies as providers of essential services. In 1938, the Dow Jones committee decided to restrict membership in the Utilities Average to power utilities. The resulting reshuffle removed nine stocks, including AT&amp;T, International Telephone &amp; Telegraph, and Western Union, all of which were communications utilities rather than power utilities, from the Dow Jones Utilities Average. Since AT&amp;T was such a huge company, it was moved over to the Dow Jones Industrial Average, which required that another stock be removed to make room for AT&amp;T. Thus, IBM was kicked out of the Dow Jones Industrial Average. What if the Dow Jones committee had not redefined the Utilities Average to only include power utilities? What if IBM had stayed in the Dow Jones Industrial Average between March 13, 1939, when it was removed, and June 29, 1979, when IBM replaced Chrysler in the Dow Jones Industrials? Obviously, the Dow Jones Industrials would be higher than it is today, but how much higher? International Business Machines incorporated on June 16, 1911 as The Computer-Tabulating-Recording Co., a merger of The Computing Scale Company of America, The Tabulating Machine Company and The International Time Recording Company of New York. The company listed on the NYSE in November 1915, and on February 14, 1924, the company acquired International Business Machines and changed its name in a reverse acquisition. IBM has been one of the best performers on the stock exchange in history. If you had invested $1 in IBM when it started trading OTC in August 1911, it would have grown to $40,000 today on a price basis. If you had reinvested your dividends, your $1 investment would have grown to $1,434,300. In the past 100 years, IBM has given over a million-fold return. The graph below shows the performance of IBM stock over the past 100 years. Global Financial DataChart 1. AT&amp;T incorporated in New York on March 3, 1885 and began trading on the NYSE in May 1900 after it had acquired American Bell Telephone Co. in March 1900. The company was forced to split up into “Ma Bell” and the “Baby Bells” by the U.S. government on December 31, 1983. On November 18, 2005, AT&amp;T Corp. (“Ma Bell”) was acquired by one of the Baby Bells, SBC Communications, which then changed its name to AT&amp;T Inc. in a reverse acquisition. AT&amp;T has not performed as well as IBM over the past 100 years. If you had invested $1 in AT&amp;T in May 1900, your investment would have grown to only $4.26 on a price basis, or $639 if you had reinvested all of your dividends back in the company, by the time AT&amp;T was broken up in February 1984. Global Financial DataChart 2.So what if the Dow Jones Committee had kept IBM in the Dow Jones Average between March 1939 and June 1979 and had never admitted AT&amp;T, keeping it in the Utilities Average? What would the result have been? IBM closed at 187.25 on March 14, 1939 while AT&amp;T closed at 166.125. IBM closed at 73.375 on June 29, 1979 while AT&amp;T closed at 57.875. Price wise, the results appear to be similar. The difference is that both stocks split, and the stocks had several rights offerings in the intervening 40 years. The cumulative effect of these stock splits and rights offerings is significant. You would have to adjust the stock price of AT&amp;T by 7.15 to allow for the impact of stock splits and rights offerings, but you would have to adjust IBM stock by a factor of 562.48. If neither stock had split or provided rights offerings in those intervening forty years, AT&amp;T stock would have been at 414 in June 1979, but IBM would have been at 41,272. IBM increased one hundred times more than AT&amp;T during those intervening forty years. The DJIA stood at 151.1 on March 14, 1939 and 841.98 on June 29, 1979. Since the DJIA is price weighted, you can remove the impact of AT&amp;T on the DJIA by subtracting out the price of AT&amp;T allowing for the splits, and replacing this amount with the value of IBM stock, allowing for the splits in IBM. If you do this, you would find that the DJIA would have been at 23,582 in June 1979, not 841.98.  In other words, IBM would have added 22,740 points to the DJIA had it never been removed. Global Financial DataChart 3.The DJIA is currently trading above 16,000. If you add 22,740 points to this value, you would arrive at a DJIA close to 39,000. If IBM had stayed in the DJIA, CNBC and The Wall Street Journal would be preparing for the DJIA’s approaching rendezvous with 40,000. However, since the Dow Jones Committee removed IBM from the Dow Jones Industrial Average in 1939 and kept it out for forty years, we will have to wait several more decades to reach that goal. This article originally appeared at Global Financial Data.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
AnonymousJohn Lefevre, the banker behind Goldman Sachs ElevatorMany months ago, I tweeted about totaling a new Maserati, which is something that actually happened to me. I should have seen it coming; I was so intoxicated when I bought the car (just 5 days previously) that the dealership had to drive me home in it. Right after that tweet, I had a few friends email me and say that I must be the person behind GSElevator. Again last year, when I collaborated with CNBC’s John Carney to put together our fantastic piece, “How to Be A Man,” I received a few more emails from people identifying me as the source. After all, recommending a hair cut by Sammy at the Mandarin Oriental in Hong Kong is hardly subtle. He’s so old and so shaky that it’s always been a running joke of mine to send visiting colleagues his way for a straight razor shave. And it’s happened again and again over the last few years. So, I’ve never shied away from projecting my true personality in the @GSElevator Twitter feed. It’s part of that same personality that has always flown close to the sun, and, of course, has had a colorful and distinguished career on Wall Street. Along the way, I’ve never worried about making enemies or becoming a lightening rod for criticism. I’ve always been fine with that; I embrace it. However, in light of recent events, I thought it was prudent to provide a bit of clarity and context around my Twitter account, the book, and me as a person. Being outed has always been part of the plan… The issue of my anonymity was simply a device, and one that has suited the construct of the Twitter feed. GSElevator has never been an anonymous person. It's not a person at all. It's the embodiment or aggregation of "every banker," a concentrated reflection of a Wall Street culture and mentality. Being anonymous had this enigmatic mystery and intrigue; it protected my privacy, but also prevented me as a person from getting in the way of the message. But to be clear, it was never about hiding. In fact, I’ve always expected to be outed, especially given the sensitive and personal nature of many of the stories coming in the book. It’s part of the process - liberating me to speak even more candidly and credibly about the vantage point from which I have observed and enjoyed my outrageous Wall Street experiences. I started as an intern in 2000 for Salomon Brothers in London on the Victoria Plaza trading floor of Liar’s Poker fame. My wild ride formally commenced the following year, beginning in the wake of the dotcom bubble bursting, and carrying me across three continents, and through the worst financial crisis in generations. So, was I hired by Goldman Sachs? Well, when they offered me the job of Head of Asia Debt Syndicate, it was deemed headline-worthy at the time… Have I been in their elevators? Too many times to count. But Greg Smith tried writing that book, and it was boring as hell… The Twitter feed… For the avoidance of any doubt, any person who actually thought my Twitter feed was literally about verbatim conversations overhead in the elevators of Goldman Sachs is an idiot. Newsflash: GSElevator has never been about elevators. And, it's never been specifically about Goldman Sachs; it's about illuminating Wall Street culture in a fun and entertaining way. Without highlighting the obvious evolution of the tweets into more generally-appealing observations, let’s start with the simple fact that each of my tweets says “Sent from Twitter for Mac,” hardly the work of someone pretending to be hiding in the walls of 200 West. Being called a “fake” or a “hoax” by the same people who embraced me as “satire” is simply laughable – and it really speaks to the silly and opportunistic attempts at cheap headlines. I have been completely transparent in saying that my tweets are edited, curated, and crafted, in a way that I think will best resonate and still embody the soul and mentality of Wall Street. My focus has been to entertain and enlighten, without being completely devoid of substance and insight. The Book… The book is not about Twitter; it’s a collection of true stories from my experiences directing traffic at Wall Street’s epicenter – the bond syndicate desk. I sat above the Chinese Wall – straddling the private side (Investment Banking) and the public side (Sales &amp; Trading). I helped companies raise billions of dollars, companies like Ford, General Electric, AIG, Unilever, Rolls-Royce, GlaxoSmithKline, and Diageo… and then Korean and Indian bureaucrats, Chinese billionaire tycoons, and Indonesian thugs. My seat is like being the catcher on a baseball team. I’m the only person who can see the entire field; I coordinate the calls, and I’m involved on every play. And since most public deals are not sole bookrunner transactions, I have worked exhaustively with every bank on Wall Street; I saw it all. Again, the book has never been positioned as the story about life just inside the walls of Goldman Sachs. It’s far more interesting than that. And it certainly isn’t an indictment on any particular firm or some kind of exposé snoozefest. My objective is to unapologetically showcase the true culture of Wall Street in a way that hasn’t been done before. My vantage point is particularly unique and credible… and now, I can share it without the shackles of anonymity. So of course, I will keep tweeting. I’ve even picked up a few new inside sources (and 25,000 new followers), so like I’ve always said, “Email me what you hear…” NOW WATCH: Here's How Elon Musk Can Tell If Job Applicants Are Lying About Their Experience   FREE AppDownload
Scott Olson / GettyGunmaker Smith &amp; Wesson announced third quarter net sales of $145.9 million, up 7.1% from the year ago quarter. The stock is up 7% in after-hours trading. Handgun sales surged 29.9% from the year ago quarter. "Our performance for the third quarter of fiscal 2014 reflected the ongoing successful execution of our growth strategy," said CEO James Debney in a statement. "We maintained our focus on increasing market share of our Smith &amp; Wesson M&amp;P polymer pistol family of products and thereby delivered handgun revenue growth of nearly 30%, a solid result when we consider that the year-ago quarter reflected a surge in consumer demand." "We continued to demonstrate our strong track record of new product development, launching several new products at SHOT Show in January, particularly in the revolver category, all of which were well received and drew incremental orders from our customers," he said. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ralph OrlowskiTraders dressed in a carnival costume toast with a glass of sparkling wine at the stock exchange on Shrove Tuesday in Frankfurt March 4, 2014.It was a huge day for stocks. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
AP The budget for fiscal year 2015 released by President Barack Obama Tuesday includes increased funding for two regulatory bodies tasked with policing Wall Street. Obama proposed raising funding levels for both the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission by more than 25%. Both agencies are charged with implementing the restrictions imposed on the financial industry by the Dodd-Frank law. Obama's budget would increase the SEC's budget by 26% to $1.7 billion. According to the Wall Street Journal, this added funding would likely be used to hire more investigators and examiners. Since the SEC charges Wall Street firms fees, its budget has no impact on the federal deficit. The CFTC would get an increase of 30% for a total budget of $280 million in Obama's budget. However, this amount is lower than the $315 million Obama proposed for the agency in last year's budget. An unnamed administration official told the Journal this reduction was a result of spending caps imposed by the two-year budget deal.  CFTC Commissioner Bart Chilton issued a statement Tuesday criticizing the more moderate increase.  "I’m frustrated to say: The funding requested is insufficient to do the job," Chilton said. Obama proposed to pay for the additional CFTC funding with a new fee on financial firms. That plan as well as the White House's prior budget proposal to increase CFTC funding have both previously been unable to get sufficient support in Congress. Once again, not all elements of the president's budget will be accepted, however, it sets the stage for a bipartisan debate in the 2014 mid-term elections.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/China Newsphoto FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. 'ETFs Should Be High On Regulators' List Of Unfinished Business' (Bloomberg View)  Exchange-traded funds (ETFs) have gotten increasingly  popular in the past two decades. Last year, ETFs accounted for 27% of all U.S. equities trading, reports Bloomberg. But a new Bloomberg View editorial claims ETFs are getting risky.  "There are now ETFs based on commodities and currencies. Devising strange new indexes for ETFs to track is a business in its own right. Today, you can buy a leveraged ETF -- riskier by design than the securities it bundles together. Or an inverse ETF, which goes up when the relevant market bundle goes down. Or a synthetic ETF, which tracks its benchmark with derivatives rather than by holding the underlying securities. Or you can trade options on any of the above."  They argue that synthetic ETFs are the most risky. While these are largely seen in Europe and it has garnered attention from international regulators there's more that can be done. "ETFs should be high on regulators’ list of unfinished business," they write. Morgan Stanley Hires Two Advisor Teams From Wells Fargo And UBS (The Wall Street Journal)  Morgan Stanley has hired two advisor teams, one each from UBS and Wells Fargo, that together manage about $425 million in client assets, reports Corrie Driebusch at The Wall Street Journal. James Wong, Matthew Barker, Justin Harris, and Desiderio Rodriquez have joined from Wells Fargo Advisors where they generated $2.8 million in commissions and fees. Meanwhile, Daniel Tedesco and Dennis Madden have joined from UBS Wealth Management Americas where they generated $1.6 million in fees and commissions annually. Bill Gross Has This Diagram Permanently Affixed To His Whiteboard (PIMCO) In his latest 'Investment Outlook' PIMCO's Bill Gross highlights Concentric Circles that are pinned to the whiteboard in the Investment Committee boardroom. The safest asset classes are in the center (like Treasury bills) while the riskiest (equities, real estate, high-yield credit) are in the outer circles. But there's more to it than just that. "Change the price of credit at the center and you change the price of assets at the outer extremities," writes Gross. "In addition to the changing policy rate at the center, asset prices on the outer circles are dependent on investor expectations and the confidence in policymakers and the effectiveness of their policies. The center must have credibility, the center must 'hold' or else the entire array of asset prices at the extremities is at risk."PIMCO M&amp;A Activity In The RIA Space Was Healthy Last Year (Schwab Advisor Services) 2013 saw 54 completed mergers and acquisitions (M&amp;A) in the registered investment advisor (RIA) space that totaled $43.6 billion in AUM, according to Schwab Advisor Services. Deals were up 20% on the year, though total AUM was down 26% on the year. "There was an identifiable trend last year during the second half of 2013 in which larger firms acquired smaller and mid-size firms, an indication that firms across the spectrum looked to M&amp;A as a means to quickly expand their footprint," Jonathan Beatty, senior vice president of sales and relationship management at Schwab Advisor Services said in a press release. Here's How To Avoid The 'Dumb Money' Effect (Credit Suisse)  Group-think and the 'dumb-money effect' exhibit the worst of investor behavior and feed into one another. Investors can offset this tendency "by making predictions that place more weight on past results and less on recent outcomes," argues Credit Suisse's Michael  Mauboussin. "Since year-to-year results for the stock market are very difficult to predict, investors should not be lured by last year's good results any more than they should be repelled by poor outcomes. It is better to focus on long-term averages and avoid being too swayed by recent outcomes. Avoiding the dumb money effect boils down to maintaining consistent exposure." FREE AppDownload
Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, Thinkorswim UPDATE 3:23 PM ET: The S&amp;P 500 has just reached an all-time high of 1876, 1.6% above Monday's close. This chart shows S&amp;P 500 futures from last Thursday to this morning. On Friday, futures closed at 1860.75, and this morning, as the horizontal red line shows, they are above that level, trading north of 1861. In other words, from the U.S. equity market's perspective, it's like the escalation of military tensions on the border between Russia and Ukraine this weekend never even happened. This morning, two big headlines propelled futures higher. The first one crossed the wires around 1 AM ET: Moscow news agency Interfax reported that Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered troops engaged in a military drill in western Russia back to their bases. The Russian ruble instantly strengthened. Russian stock markets opened at the same time and immediately headed higher. The effect on S&amp;P 500 futures is circled on the chart (the bigger of the two red circles). The second headline crossed around 5:45 AM ET, when Putin began delivering a press conference on the conflict. The ruble strengthened and Russian stocks got another boost as he spoke. The effect on S&amp;P 500 futures is circled on the chart as well (the smaller of the two red circles). For now, U.S. stocks are signaling that geopolitical concerns may have little lasting effect. FREE AppDownload
While big publicly-traded companies pull more headlines, most American businesses are privately owned. They contribute just under half of U.S. GDP, but new data compiled from Sageworks shows that sales are at the slowest growth rate since 2009. Check out the infographic from Sageworks: Sageworks
REUTERS/Maxim ShemetovJust yesterday it seemed like Russia was ready to take military action against Ukraine in the disputed region of Crimea. Now, Russian president Vladimir Putin has said he sees 'no need' for military force in Ukraine. Investors had already been anxious about the weakness of the ruble and the economy. The regional tensions have caused investors to flee from of the Russian stock market. Russian stocks are down roughly 20% year-to-date. Jacob Nell at Morgan Stanley writes that this could be a buying opportunity.  "[The] sell-off has taken the market to technically extreme oversold levels," writes Nell. "Valuation multiples have only been cheaper at the depths of the 2008 crisis (when earnings fell by 60%). And oil markets are stable in contrast to sell-offs in Russia historically. Despite the obvious hit to growth expectations implied by the crisis, any sign that tensions are beginning to de-escalate would constitute a buying opportunity." It's important, however, to note that cheap valuations don't mean guaranteed immediate returns. According to Meb Faber of Meb Faber Research, low valuations could not prevent Russian stocks from falling in in 2013. Faber points to the cyclically-adjusted price-earnings (CAPE) ratio, a valuation measure popularized by Nobel prize-winning economist Robert Shiller. CAPE is calculated by taking the price of an asset and dividing it by the average of ten years worth of earnings. Generally speaking, overweighting stocks with low CAPE ratios appears to be a winning strategy in the long-term. And currently, Russia has the second lowest CAPE ratio in the world, right above Greece. "While we may see a mild in-year recession, a weaker RUB and hence lower imports, in addition to a supportive oil price in case of increased geopolitical risks, should act as stabilizing factors," said Nell. Again, there are no guarantees here. But for the patient investor with a lead-lined stomach, Russian stocks appear to be an interesting long-term investment opportunity. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsA Topol-M mobile launcher during rehearsals for the 2012 Moscow Victory Day Parade.Russia just test-fired an intercontinental ballistic missile that hit its target in Kazakhstan, Defense Ministry spokesman Igor Yegorov told state-run news agency RIA.  The reports caused a dip in stocks as the world watches the crisis in Ukraine unfold, although the intersection of events appears to be a coincidence. Kremlin spokesman Peskov says Russia planned the missile tests well in advance, and that the U.S. knew about it before Russia invaded the Ukrainian peninsula of Crimea. Russia occupied the strategic Black Sea peninsula last week after pro-EU protesters ousted Kremlin-backed President Viktor Yanukovych. Tensions are high.   #Ukranian base in #Yevpatoria is surrounded by a large group of armed #Russians. Situation is extremely tense. FREE AppDownload
AP The unveiling of President Barack Obama's fiscal-year 2015 budget met predictable Republican resistance on Tuesday, with House Speaker John Boehner issuing perhaps the most stinging criticism. "After years of fiscal and economic mismanagement, the president has offered perhaps his most irresponsible budget yet," Boehner said in a statement. "This budget is a clear sign this president has given up on any efforts to address our serious fiscal challenges that are undermining the future of our kids and grandkids." Republicans had three familiar criticisms of the budget — it spends, borrows, and it taxes too much. To be sure, little if any of Obama's budget has a chance of becoming law, especially after the bipartisan budget deal brokered in December. However, Obama's budget and the House Republican plan that will follow in a few weeks will be important in framing both parties' arguments ahead of the 2014 midterm elections. Obama's new budget was also notable because it did not include olive branches the president has extended to Republicans in the past, like the cuts to Social Security that liberals helped kill. Obama's fiscal-year 2015 budget is being described by many observer as more of a wish list of proposals the White House wants to see. Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell said it wasn't a "serious document." Rep. Paul Ryan, the Republican chair of the House Budget Committee, called Obama's budget "yet another disappointment." "This budget isn’t a serious document; it’s a campaign brochure," Ryan said in a statement. "In divided government, we need leadership and collaboration. And in this budget, we have neither." Ryan, however, could find himself in his own awkward situation in a few weeks, when House Republicans release their budget blueprint. Along with Sen. Patty Murray, the Democratic chair of the Senate Budget Committee, Ryan was one half of the duo that struck the budget deal in December. If the House committee models its new budget after their bipartisan deal, it could lose support from conservatives. However, it could find support vanishing from Democrats if it is drawn based on a conservative blueprint. House Appropriations Chairman Harold Rogers, a Republican from Kentucky, immediately declared Obama's proposed budget dead on arrival. He said in a statement that the committee he chairs would adhere to the spending caps set in last year's bipartisan budget deal. "It is extremely disappointing that the President’s proposal today blatantly disregards the budget limits for fiscal year 2015 — spending roughly $60 billion in additional funds — and ignores the hard-fought compromise he so recently endorsed," Rogers said. FREE AppDownload
In recent years, corporations in emerging markets (EM) have increasingly sought to tap international bond markets to finance themselves, as low interest rates at the global level have provided more attractive terms of borrowing than those corporations could access in their home countries. Nomura, BloombergChart 1: Onshore and offshore debt. Note: Series represent cumulative sum of bonds issued that have not yet matured or been called, which may not properly account for debt restructuring.Jens Nordvig, global head of currency strategy at Nomura, estimates that EM corporations have issued $400 billion of offshore debt since 2010 — about 40% of total issuance (chart 1). This issuance is not captured in traditional country-level balance of payments statistics, which only measure debt issuance on a residency basis and not a nationality basis. In other words, the official statistics only measure a given corporation's debt issuance in the home country, and don't take into account offshore debt issued through overseas subsidiaries. The latter measure is a better gauge of risk exposures, according to Philip Turner, deputy head of the monetary and economics department at the Bank for International Settlements, who argues in a new working paper that "the consolidated balance sheet of an international firm best measures its vulnerabilities." This "hidden debt," as Nordvig puts it, could pose a major risk for EMs in which currencies are rapidly declining against the dollar. Guess which two EM countries have issued the most offshore debt as a percentage of GDP? Nomura, Bloomberg, BIS, IMFChart 2: Hard currency external debt in emerging markets as a percentage of GDP. Note: Offshore issuance is the total of bonds issued by subsidiaries incorporated in a country different from the firm's primary location of business. Figures are based on amount outstanding, which will account for debt restructuring. Sample excludes Singapore and Hungary which have outsized cross-border loan exposure.Number one is Russia, at 12% of GDP. Number two is Ukraine, at 9% (chart 2). In a recent IMF working paper, economists Kyuil Chung, Jong-Eun Lee, Elena Loukoianova, Hail Park, and Hyun Song Shin explained the danger posed to EM corporates by a rise in global interest rates, like the one we've seen over the last year (emphasis added): The practice of offshore issuance of debt securities by overseas subsidiaries of EM firms means that the standard external debt measures that are compiled on a residence basis may not fully reflect the true underlying vulnerabilities that are relevant for explaining behavior. If the overseas subsidiary of a company from an EM country has taken on U.S. dollar debt, but the company is holding domestic currency financial assets at its headquarters, then the company as a whole faces a currency mismatch and will be affected by currency movements between the funding currency and the domestic currency, even if no currency mismatch is captured in the official net external debt statistics.  Nevertheless, the firm's fortunes (and hence its actions) will be sensitive to currency movements and thus foreign exchange risk. In effect, the firm will be taking on a carry trade position, holding cash in local currency but with dollar liabilities in their overseas subsidiary. One motive for taking on such a carry trade position may be to hedge export receivables. Alternatively, the carry trade position may be motivated by the prospect of financial gain if the domestic currency is expected to strengthen against the dollar. In practice, however, the distinction between hedging and speculation may be difficult to draw. The recent escalation of military tensions in between Ukraine and Russia have caused the currencies of both countries to dive against the dollar. Firms in these countries with large proportions of external debt issued in dollars are now facing an increase in the value of their debts relative to the value of their assets, increasing somewhat the risk of default. In short, when the dollar strengthens, dollar liquidity decreases, and credit risk goes up. "The U.S. dollar global liquidity measure occupies a special place, and we may attribute its special status to the role of the U.S. dollar as the currency that underpins global capital markets through its role as the pre-eminent funding currency for borrowers," write the economists in the IMF paper. This could become a major problem for local banking systems in emerging markets, as Turner explains in the BIS paper (emphasis his): Issuance by EM non-bank corporations on such a scale, and a possible "stop" at some point in the future, could affect the domestic banking systems in EMEs through at least three channels: i. The first arises because EM corporations have typically borrowed from local banks. When extremely easy external financing conditions allow such firms to borrow cheaply from abroad, local banks have to look for other customers – so that domestic lending conditions facing most local borrowers actually ease more than the expansion in total domestic bank credit aggregates suggest. A tightening in external financing conditions would reverse this ... small firms might then find it harder to get finance even if total domestic bank credit continues to rise. ii. A second channel works through wholesale funding markets for banks. When EM corporations are awash with cash thanks to easy external financing conditions, they will increase their wholesale deposits with local banks.7 This is also reversible. Such deposits are flighty – and a worsening of external financing conditions can therefore make it more difficult for domestic banks to fund themselves at home. There is extensive evidence, drawn from many different contexts, that the deposits of non-financial corporations are indeed more procyclical than other bank deposits.8 Because changes in global non-financial deposits predict growth and trade, Shin (2013) argues that they deserve special attention in the construction of global monetary or liquidity aggregates. iii. The third link is through the hedging of their forex or maturity exposures, often via derivative contracts with local banks. Even if the local banks hedge their forex exposures with banks overseas, they still face the risk that local corporations will not be able to meet their side of the contract. The upshot is that the domestic bank that thinks it has managed its risks, will find itself, if its corporate clients fail, with unhedged exposures vis-a`-vis foreign banks. As a result of these linkages, the central bank may face greater instability in its domestic interbank market whenever large corporations find it harder to finance themselves abroad. This can arise even if domestic macroeconomic conditions have not changed. The central bank that enjoys credibility could of course use local monetary policy to offset such destabilising forces. It could use its policy rate to resist any incipient rise in local money market rates; and it could relax its liquidity policies. But if corporate exposures are very large, the central bank may find itself contemplating measures of a scale or nature that might undermine its credibility. These are all things that are important for investors in emerging markets to keep in mind going forward. If the U.S. economy continues to improve, U.S./global interest rates continue to rise, and the dollar continues to strengthen, a lot of this "hidden debt" could quickly become just the opposite. FREE AppDownload
It's hard to keep count of all of the studies that show how humans make very poor, money-losing investment decisions. In a new post for Credit Suisse's website, strategist Michael Mauboussin explains some of why this is so. "One behavior of investors that is well documented is the tendency to buy after the market has risen and to sell following a drop," wrote Mauboussin. He included this chart, which shows the results of this behavior. "On average, investors earn 1.5 percentage points less per year than a buy-and-hold strategy as a result of the dumb money effect," noted Mauboussin. "So our minds encourage us to act at extremes and buy when the market is up and sell when the market is down." Buy-and-hold returns (aka time-weighted returns) represent what happens when an investor just buys and holds. Asset-weighted returns capture investors buying when prices are high and selling when prices are low; a money losing exercise. Mauboussin walks us through an example: Here's a simple illustration. Let us say an investor buys 100 shares of a fund that starts a year with a net asset value of 10 US dollars, representing an outlay of 1,000 US dollars. In the next year, the fund's net asset value rises to 20 US dollars, doubling the investor's money. Excited, the investor buys an additional 100 shares, spending another 2,000 US dollars. In the second year, the net asset value of the fund declines to 10 US dollars, back where it started. How did the fund and our investor fare over the two years? The time-weighted return for the fund is zero, of course, as the fund ended at the same price as it started. But the asset weighted return for the investor is –27 percent , calculated as the internal rate of return based on the timing and magnitude of the investor's cash flows. The return would have been zero had our investor used a simple buy-and-hold strategy, and there would have been no nominal gain or loss. But in the scenario we outlined, our investor lost 1,000 US dollars of the 3,000 US dollars total investment because of the purchase after the fund rose. "Because of investor behavior, returns for major indices substantially overstate the returns that investors actually earn," he wrote "Investors can counterbalance this tendency by making predictions that place more weight on past results and less on recent outcomes." Credit SuisseOddly, Canadians appear to have an advantage. FREE AppDownload
Official U.S. Navy Page/FlickrIt doesn't matter how old you are: Next time you interview for a job, be prepared to share your SAT scores. In the timeless quest to predict future success in employees, a number of employers are turning to candidates' SAT results. Big-name consulting firms such as McKinsey and Bain, as well as banks like Goldman Sachs, are among the companies that ask newly minted college grads for their scores in job applications, according to an article in the Wall Street Journal. Some other companies request scores even from candidates in their 40s and 50s. For all these job seekers, the SATs are a distant memory. Even the newest Bachelor's recipients tend to be at least four years removed from the test. So why is it that even after people go to college, mature, and gain work experience, employers still care about a standardized test taken in high school? Jonathan Wai, an intelligence expert and researcher in Duke University's Talent Identification Program (TIP), says the SATs are considered to be a measure of "general intelligence and general ability." That's important because research has shown that general ability "actually predicts occupational success across a range of occupations," he explains.  The SATs also appeal to many hiring managers because they're standardized. In theory, these test scores serve as an equalizer and mediate some of the well-documented biases that normally influence the hiring process. For example, it's been found that managers generally prefer hiring people who are similar to them — be it in education, background, interests, or personality. This is called a "similarity bias." The beauty of the SATs is that everyone takes them at the same time, with roughly the same level (if not quality) of education. In the broadest sense, someone's score on the SAT offers a glimpse of how they compare to other candidates in terms of general knowledge and ability. "It's standardized, and it's objective in that sense," Wai says. Jeff Bezos, the billionaire founder and CEO of Amazon, is one of the most famous proponents of using SAT scores in hiring decisions. Bezos scored highly on a standardized IQ test when he was only 8 years old, and in his early days as a manager, he liked to ask candidates for their SAT results in interviews he conducted. He has said that "hiring only the best and brightest was key to Amazon's success." Despite the benefits of using SATs in hiring, Wai admits the test is "not a perfect measure by any means" and questions how widespread its use as a hiring tool really is. He's also not sure for how long the scores should be considered valid. After all, he points out, scores on the GRE — the graduate school entrance exam — are good for only five years. That raises an obvious question for companies like Cvent Inc., which asks for SAT or equivalent ACT scores from job applicants of all ages, the Wall Street Journal reports. Wai hopes the emphasis employers like Cvent Inc. put on standardized tests won't encourage recent college graduates and experienced workers to start retaking the SATs. For one, people's scores probably wouldn't change much, he says. Additionally, the SAT would no longer offer the benefit of standardization if people were reporting scores from all different points in their lives instead of the score they got in high school.   Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through hispersonal investment company Bezos Expeditions. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Francois Lenoir Sculptor Jonathan Bouchard of Canada poses near a sculpture at the ice bar of the Brussels Ice Magic Festival.The prevailing wisdom is that this season's painfully lousy weather has been a drag on the economy, impacting retail sales, manufacturing, and effectively ruining a string of economic data reports. But maybe it wasn't all so bad. Another major impact from the cold front has been a spike in natural gas prices, and that rise could, in turn, boost business investment in mining structures, according to Capital Economics' Paul Dales. "That could add 0.3 percentage points to annual GDP growth, albeit not immediately and not all at once," he writes in a new note to clients. "There has historically been a close relationship between gas prices and the number of gas rigs in operation," Dales says, acknowledging that the relationship hasn't been quite as close lately due to efficiency gains and the fact that miners are focusing more on drilling for oil. "A sustained rise in natural gas prices to around $5 should nonetheless trigger a rise in the number of rigs in operation. If the number were to increase from the current 350 to around 1000, that would boost the total number of mining rigs (which includes oil rigs) by 35%," he writes. Because investment in mining structures makes up 6.6% of business investment and 0.8% of GDP, that would boost business investment by 2% and overall GDP by 0.3%, according to Dales, who says the gains would spread out over a few years. Check out his charts: Capital Economics Capital Economics FREE AppDownload
AP PhotoRinat AkmetovIn choosing to appoint Ukrainian oligarchs to important positions in Russian-heavy eastern regions of the country, Ukraine is sending an important message to Vladimir Putin. The message is — 'Ukraine will stay united, and you can't hurt us without hurting yourself.' To understand that, you have to understand how the oligarchs came to power, which ones you should be watching, and what they control. Ukrainian oligarchs came into power the way most oligarchs do — amid chaos. When Ukraine became an independent country in 1991, the country's public assets from the USSR were carved up among powerful businessmen who were at the right place at the right time, much like they were in Russia. A lot of these men — and they are all men — came from nothing. As a result, the richest 50 people in Ukraine control 46% of the economy today. That's why the new government appointed Sergei Taruta the governor of Donetsk, the eastern region where his mining and metals conglomerate ISD Corporation is based. It is also why the fourth richest Ukrainian, Ihor Kolomoysky (an ally of Yulia Tymoshekno) was appointed governor of Dniporptrousk. He, along with his partner Henadiy Boholyubov, control the largest bank PrivatBank, the largest bank in the country. "The recent agreement from two of the main oligarchs from the Eastern regions, billionaires Igor Kolomoisky from Dnipropetrovsk and Serhiy Taruta from Donetsk, to serve as governor of their respective region under the new Kiev authorities, in order to "protect the homeland in danger", reinforces the prospects for a united Ukraine," wrote Qatar University Professor Remi Piet, in a column for Al Jazeera. And the oligarchs who haven't taken positions, but have voiced their support for the new government, may be even more important. Rinat Akmentov is the richest man in Ukraine. His father was a coal miner, now, he's worth $11.4 billion. Through his holding company System Capital Management, he controls  about half of Ukraine's steel, coal and electricity production (including a 71% interest in the country's largest steelmaker) according to Bloomberg.  A lot of that steel, of course, goes to Russia. Rinat, a former Yanukovych ally, has said that he will not take a post in the new government, but he has also said in no uncertain terms that he stands behind the country. “Our objective is to ensure the safety of people and their families and secure stable operations of companies in the country,” he said in a statement through his company. Viktor Pinchuk is another oligarch to watch. He's worth $3.2 billion, according to Forbes, and though he's said that he will not take a post in the new government either has voiced his support. The importance of Punchuk's support cannot be overstated. His company, Interpipe, is a supplier for Russia's state gas company, Gazprom, so he has a major stake in the Russian economy. In fact, both of these men do. According to Bloomberg, Rinat lost $700 million when the Russian stock market got clobbered yesterday. But they're standing by Ukraine anyway.  FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesHoward Lutnick wants his barn in the Hamptons.Billionaire investment banker Howard Lutnick is suing a town planning board in the Hamptons for $20 million after members denied his request to build a barn on his property, 27 East's Michael Wright reports. The Cantor Fitzgerald CEO bought his property for $15 million in 2003. In 2007, he asked permission to build a 11,200-square-foot barn on the property, but was twice denied by the Southampton Town Planning Board. The board said Lutnick could build a 2,400-square foot barn if he removes the baseball field and playground he currently has built in his back yard, according to the report. From 27 East: The lawsuit that attorneys for Mr. Lutnick filed in response stands out amid the parade of such legal challenges to other decisions made by the Planning Board in that it lists all seven members of the board, as well as the 17 members of the town’s Agricultural Advisory Committee, as defendants, individually. The suit, which seeks $20 million in damages, implies that the individual members of both boards should be held personally responsible for the losses incurred by the plaintiff and applicant. The town attorney told 27 East that members would be indemnified against legal costs and that the lawsuit was an attempt to intimidate members to change their minds about Lutnick's barn. Read the full report at 27 East » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Larry Downing President Barack Obama is proposing new tax credits and job-training programs for workers in his fiscal-year 2015 budget released Tuesday while calling for the tax hike on wealthy Americans known as the "Buffett rule," the elimination of one of Wall Street's favorite tax loopholes, and long-term deficit reduction. Though not all elements of the president's budget will be accepted, it will doubtlessly set the stage for the 2014 mid-term elections.  Obama will discuss his budget plan Tuesday morning from Powell Elementary School in Washington, D.C. After releasing a preview of the budget Monday night that highlighted an expansion of the EITC and elimination of the carried interest tax loophole, the White House released a fact sheet highlighting some elements of the president's plan Tuesday. Here are some other notable elements of Obama's budget as described in the fact sheet:  FREE AppDownload
Remembering the names of the people you meet will help you stand out and make a good impression. Produced by Justin Gmoser. Originally published in September 2013.  Follow BI Video: On Facebook  
BloombergMark Karpeles, CEO of Mt. GoxFlexcoin, which billed itself as a "Bitcoin bank," has shut down after the theft of 896 Bitcoins, which were worth roughly $622,000. This is just one more instance of a Bitcoin company having to shutter its doors in recent weeks. Mt. Gox was certainly the loudest to go, even seeing protests in front of its Japan headquarters. But a string of Bitcoin-related companies closing up shop doesn't mean Bitcoin is dead. Brett Stapper is co-founder of Falcon Global Capital, a Bitcoin investment fund that's currently offering to buy the Bitcoins seized by the FBI during the Silk Road shutdown. He gave us his take on why so many Bitcoin companies have said goodbye lately — he blames "poor business management." He also says these Bitcoin exchanges are volatile because they were first to market and not necessarily the best way to manage your Bitcoins. Here's his analogy: Imagine if Gmail were to close down. Would we say, "The end of email has arrived"? Of course not. People are mixing up a private company with an entire industry. Mt. Gox for example, began as a platform for trading Magic: The Gathering cards, [and] a few short years later they are holding hundreds of millions of dollars in customers' money and became the number one [Bitcoin] exchange. Did they become the number one exchange because they were the best? No, [it's] because they were the first. This is a common trend when it comes to new innovations. The weak, poorly managed companies that reached the top will go down and the properly managed companies will battle each other for the number one position. So while it's tragic this is occurring and so many people lost money with them, it is also important to note this is a key time for Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies where the consumer stands to win when the exchanges begin to compete with one another.  Now that Bitcoin is much more an object of public consciousness, future Bitcoin companies will be able to learn from others' past mistakes and concern themselves with customer service. There is no yet word if the FBI has accepted Falcon Global Capital's offer to buy its seized Bitcoins. FREE AppDownload
“It takes a lot to shock the U.S. economy into a recession,” Rosenberg said. None of the factors that historically triggered a recession – such as a tightening move by the Federal Reserve – are likely over the next two years, according to Rosenberg. Rosenberg is the chief economist and strategist at Gluskin Sheff, a Toronto-based wealth management firm. Prior to joining the firm in 2009, he was the chief economist at Merrill Lynch. He spoke in Boston on Feb. 27 at a lunch hosted by the Boston Security Analysts Society. I’ll look at Rosenberg’s bullish U.S. forecast – including why he thinks unemployment data are misunderstood by many – and at his predictions for the equity and bond markets. Two more years of growth For Rosenberg, the central question is whether the U.S. economy will relapse into a recession. Once you answer that question, he said, you can debate the direction of the equity and fixed-income markets. The U.S. economy is incredibly resilient, he said, and he agreed with the adage that a recovery never “dies of old age.”  It takes a “negative shock” to start a recession, he said ­-- “and those always have the Fed’s thumbprint on them.” A severe foreign-based shock is unlikely to derail U.S. growth, he said. Rosenberg noted that our economy and markets had good performance following the Asian crisis in 1997. The U.S. economy endured the “mother of all fiscal shocks” last year, when fiscal policies raised marginal rates on income, dividends, capital gains and payroll taxes. Layered onto that was the sequestration. Collectively, those factors placed a 1.5% drag on GDP growth, a level that occurred only twice in the post-war period – in the 1960 and 1970 – and both times the U.S. went into a recession.  “It’s probably a miracle that we didn’t have a recession last year,” he said. Forecasting growth is surprisingly easy, though, according to Rosenberg. “The work is already done,” he said. He relies on the Conference Board leading economic indicators (LEIs) – a “hodgepodge” of 10 data points, including building permits, factory workweeks, drillable goods orders, initial jobless claims and the yield curve. When the LEI turns negative, he said, a recession ensues. Right now, the LEI is increasing 5% year-over-year, he said, and heading upwards. Gluskin Sheff The steepness of the yield curve is the key metric within the LEI. When the yield curve inverts, Rosenberg said, “you get a recession.” But at a steepness of 260 basis points, the yield curve is “nowhere close to being inverted.” “There’s no such thing as a sure thing, especially in this business, but the chances of a recession in the next year or two are close to zero,” Rosenberg said. Rosenberg believes we are only in the fourth or fifth inning of the business cycle. His key point was that consumer spending is about to surge, which typically occurs mid-way through a business cycle...   FREE AppDownload
Russian financial markets have been subjected to some serious volatility this week on account of escalating military tensions on the border the country shares with Ukraine. In 1998, Russia defaulted on its debt and devalued the ruble, which had up until then been pegged to the value of the U.S. dollar. While the situation is dramatically different today, the photos below, from Reuters, offer a glimpse of what it was like on the trading floors in Moscow during the summer of 1998. REUTERSDealers at Moscow's commodities exchange working at their computers during hectic trading May 27, 1998. Russian financial markets went into a tailspin on Wednesday, prompting the central bank to raise interest rates by 100 basis points to defend the rouble from intensifying pressure. REUTERSTraders talk as they stand inside Russia's Rossiiskaya Birzha Futures and Commodities Exchange June 2, 1998. The board of directors of Rossiiskaya Birzha will hold a meeting on Tuesday to discuss its settlement problems, including standard bankruptcy procedures, a trader at the exchange said. REUTERSA dealer trades at Moscow International Currency Exchange (MICEX) July 3, 1998. Russian share prices have been under heavy pressure in recent weeks as the government fights a major financial crisis triggered partly by Asia's economic woes and partly by domestic problems including a shortfall in tax revenues. REUTERSRussian dealers trade during a morning session at Moscow's International Currency Exchange (MICEX) July 14, 1998. International lenders threw Russia's economy a $22.6 billion lifeline on Monday in a resounding vote of confidence in the government's planes for dealing with an acute financial crisis. REUTERSA trader looks at figures at the Moscow Interbank Currency Exchange (MICEX) August 17, 1998. Russia announced an effective devaluation of the rouble and a 90-day moratorium on some foreign debt repayments on Monday in response to a crisis of confidence in the government's ability to defend the currency. REUTERSA trader looks at a computer display in Moscow's Interbank Currency Exchange (MICEX) August 26, 1998. MICEX said on Wednesday that spot rouble/dollar trading was null and void for the day following an order from the central bank. Trading was declared null and void in line with a central bank decision, the MICEX said in a statement, after the rouble had earlier slid five percent to 8.26 to the dollar. REUTERSA security officer changes the currency rates on an exchange office poster August 27, 1998. Russia's central bank suspended foreign exchange trade of the rouble on the Moscow Interbank Currency Exchange (MICEX) on Thursday after opening trade showed the currency was headed for a sharp drop. Sign reads "No Currency" meaning the bank will not sell foreign currency. REUTERSA trader looks at a monitor at the main Moscow Interbank Currency Exchange (MICEX) September 3, 1998. The Russian rouble was again battered lower on Thursday, being set at 13.4608 to the dollar at a new system of "electronic" fixing on the MICEX. REUTERSA Russian dealer trades during the morning session at the Moscow Interbank Currency Exchange (MICEX) September 17, 1998. By late morning the rouble had slipped to 15.50 against the dollar from the central bank's official 12.4509 rate. REUTERSA Russian trader looks at a computer display during a morning session at the Moscow Interbank Currency Exchange (MICEX) September 22, 1998. The rouble was quoted at 16.35/16.40 to the dollar in a midday trade on Tuesday on the electronic SELT system on MICEX. REUTERSA Russian trader watches as his colleague speaks on a phone during a morning session at the Moscow Interbank Currency Exchange (MICEX) September 23, 1998. The rouble fell in the last few weeks but stabilised in recent days and stands around 15.80 to the dollar in electronic trading on MICEX. REUTERSA Russian trader speaks on the phones during a morning session at the Moscow Interbank Currency Exchange (MICEX) October 5, 1998. The rouble rose in early trade on the MICEX, firming to 15.60/15.80 roubles to the dollar for "today" settlement. FREE AppDownload
When he appeared on CNBC Monday morning, Warren Buffett largely dodged questions about the turmoil on the Ukraine-Russia border. "I never really buy businesses based on macro factors," he said. But he did note that he was buying on the recent dip in the markets. "We were buying it on Friday, but it's cheaper this morning and that's good news," he said. And even before Monday's sell-off, CNBC asked Buffett if he'd be buying stocks that day if markets fell. "Absolutely," he said. One day later, the S&amp;P 500 is surging to new all-time highs, which means the new Warren Buffett-trade is already making money. "Forming macro opinions or listening to the macro or market predictions of others is a waste of time," said Buffett as he bulleted the fundamentals of investing in his new letter. "Indeed, it is dangerous because it may blur your vision of the facts that are truly important. (When I hear TV commentators glibly opine on what the market will do next, I am reminded of Mickey Mantle’s scathing comment: “You don’t know how easy this game is until you get into that broadcasting booth.”)" Buffett presented his "fundamentals" based on the lessons he learned from two past real estate investments. "My two purchases were made in 1986 and 1993," he said. "What the economy, interest rates, or the stock market might do in the years immediately following – 1987 and 1994 – was of no importance to me in making those investments. I can’t remember what the headlines or pundits were saying at the time. Whatever the chatter, corn would keep growing in Nebraska and students would flock to NYU." These are not new insights from the Oracle of Omaha. In his 2008 op-ed for the New York Times, which he wrote during the height of the financial crisis, Buffett reminded us that the markets always seem to rally out of bad events. From his piece: A little history here: During the Depression, the Dow hit its low, 41, on July 8, 1932. Economic conditions, though, kept deteriorating until Franklin D. Roosevelt took office in March 1933. By that time, the market had already advanced 30 percent. Or think back to the early days of World War II, when things were going badly for the United States in Europe and the Pacific. The market hit bottom in April 1942, well before Allied fortunes turned. Again, in the early 1980s, the time to buy stocks was when inflation raged and the economy was in the tank. In short, bad news is an investor’s best friend. It lets you buy a slice of America’s future at a marked-down price. Over the long term, the stock market news will be good. In the 20th century, the United States endured two world wars and other traumatic and expensive military conflicts; the Depression; a dozen or so recessions and financial panics; oil shocks; a flu epidemic; and the resignation of a disgraced president. Yet the Dow rose from 66 to 11,497. To be fair, it's probably unfair to characterize Buffett's call on Monday as a trade. Buffett invests for the long-run, and everything he says speaks to this. If anything, he'd probably attribute the good timing to luck. FREE AppDownload
 Natural gas is a trump card for Russian President Vladimir Putin amid the crisis in Ukraine, and this 2009 kitschy video from Russian gas giant Gazprom could very well be the Kremlin anthem right now. European countries are reluctant to sanction Russia for the invasion of the Ukrainian peninsula of Crimea, partly because Gazprom supplies Europe with so much gas (map below). “Europe gets 40% of its natural gas from Russia so any sanctions that it threatens will be hindered by its dependence on Russian natural resources," Seva Gunitsky, an associate professor of political science at the University of Toronto, told the National Post. Meanwhile, Russian troops continue to surround Ukrainian army posts on the strategic Black Sea peninsula, firing warning shots at one air base, while they urge the Ukrainians to pledge allegiance to Kremlin-backed authorities. Here are some choice lyrics from the song: Don't bother trying, you'll never ever findA surer friend than Gazprom... Let's drink to you, let's drink to us,Let's drink to all the Russian gasThat it never comes to an end,Though it's so hard to obtainLet's drink to you, let's drink to usLet's drink to all the Russian gasFor those extracting the new sunFrom down beneath the ground ...We're renowned for our deedsThe world overAnd all your troubles will recedeIf Gazprom people are nearby Here's a map of Europe showing how heavily EU countries rely on Russian gas imports: REUTERSMap of Europe showing how heavily EU countries rely on Russian gas imports.  FREE AppDownload
Swiss sources reveal that the Swiss government and banks are under pressure right now to extend their freeze of the Yanukovich bank accounts to other Ukrainians on a US Government target list. Brzezinski’s proposal used the term “persuade” for his billion-dollar levy. The US Treasury has conveyed to the Swiss, as well as to banks of the European Union (EU), the targeting of as many Ukrainians as the new government in Kiev wants to threaten, especially if their business is concentrated in the eastern half of the country. According to the advisory issued on February 25 by the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCen) of the US Treasury, the objective is “enhanced scrutiny” for “private banking accounts held by or on behalf of senior foreign political figures and to monitor transactions that could potentially represent misappropriated or diverted state assets, the proceeds of bribery or other illegal payments, or other public corruption proceeds.” The operative targeting term, “senior foreign political figure”, is defined in the small print so broadly as to include, potentially, every major Ukrainian business figure with “corporation, business, or other entity that has been formed by, or of the benefit of, any such individual [or]…a person who is widely and publicly known (or is actually known by the relevant covered financial institution) to be a close associate of such individual.” The Treasury agents were working so swiftly to issue their international bank order, noone noticed that their document misspells Yanukovich’s name – twice. The lists of names which the Swiss, Austrian and Liechtenstein governments acknowledge receiving, and which on February 26 they turned into freeze orders for account holders in their jurisdictions, have not been officially published. Ukrainian media have reported what they claim to be a 20-name list. Those identified are all ex-ministers or officials of the ousted government. The wording of the FinCen notice is broad enough to apply to the officials appointed to ministerial posts since Arseny Yatseniuk announced his transitional government on February 26. It also applies to the leaders of the Ukrainian opposition including Vitaly Klitscho, the US candidate for president; Yulia Tymoshenko, his principal rival; and Oleg Tyagnibok, whose Svoboda party currently controls six of 16 portfolios in the new government. They include the deputy prime minister, minister of defence, and the Prosecutor-General. It is from the last of these that the international banks are getting their US-endorsed proscription lists. The wording of the Treasury notice also applies to Victor Pinchuk, whose father-in-law is the Ukraine’s ex-president Leonid Kuchma. Evidence of their alleged political corruption has been presented in a proceeding under way in the UK High Court. The diversion of the proceeds to Bill and Hillary Clinton, and to several Washington think-tanks and lobbyists, has been reported here. It is too early to know how much money the list-of-20 account holders have been keeping in the frozen accounts. Ukrainian sources believe the total, excluding the Yanukovich family, would come to less than $10 billion. Including the Yanukovich fortune, sources estimate the freeze may cover between $15 billion and $20 billion. If implemented, along with Brzezinski’s billion-dollar levy, the fund-raising would still fall well short of the $35 billion in sovereign debt officials in Kiev are reportedly now negotiating for cover from the International Monetary Fund (IMF). That number doesn’t cover commercial Ukrainian debt to the state and to domestic and foreign institutions. Since Ukraine and Russia are in a state of war, according to the government in Kiev, is it possible that Russian assets in Ukraine may be targeted by officials to fund the Ukrainian side? When regime change is effected by war, the reallocation of assets is called reparations by the winners; looting by the losers. The obvious Russian asset targets at present, those which play a strategic role in the Ukrainian economy and also generate the most cash, are the two telecommunications companies – Vimpelcom, owned by Mikhail Fridman, and MTS, owned by Vladimir Yevtushenkov. The former’s mobile telephone brand Kyivstar currently holds a 47% market share of the Ukrainian market; MTS holds 37.5%. Fridman also holds an indirect position in the Life brand of the Astelit group, which has a 12.5% market share. Life is owned by Rinat Akhmetov’s domestic holding SCM; and by Turkcell of Turkey, which is heavily indebted to Fridman. Vimpelcom’s market capitalization, now under pressure on the stock market, is about $17 billion. MTS is worth roughly the same. The Ukrainian operations contribute 7% to Vimpelcom’s consolidated group revenues, 8% of its earnings. MTS’s Ukrainian operations contribute 11% of revenues, 12% of earnings. If the government in Kiev were to follow the precedent recently pursued in Uzbekistan towards MTS, the possibility exists of renationalization, followed by an auction of the assets to US and EU bidders. Telecommunication sector sources in Moscow acknowledge this possibility, although the companies will not comment. At present, they represent about $2 billion in potential stakes in the current conflict. It’s difficult, however, to run a country, let alone a presidential election or a demonstration in a city square, without mobile telephones. There is therefore no overt sign that the men in Kiev intend to attack Vimpelcom or MTS. According to one Ukrainian source, “Fridman comes from Lviv. He will find a way to preserve Vimpelcom against these threats.” In Moscow sources close to MTS say they do not believe the US or EU would countenance expropriation. So far statements published by US Government officials have threatened sanctions against Russian banks, as well as what Secretary of State, John Kerry, has called “asset freezes, isolation with respect to trade and investment”. In addition to the two telecommunications companies, the potential Russian targets include the banks with most exposure in Ukraine – state-owned Sberbank and VTB, Fridman’s Alfa Bank – and the energy companies, Gazprom, Rosneft and LUKoil. The last two own oil refineries and petrol outlets. As vulnerable as Ukrainian consumers are to the supply of Russian gas and petroleum, economic warfare against Russia isn’t likely to attack these assets, not at least in the short run. Among the Russian-owned mining and metal assets in Ukraine, Roman Abramovich’s Evraz owns a complex of iron-ore mines, coke batteries, and the Dniepropetrovsk Iron &amp; Steel Works. In a 2007 transaction Evraz paid $1.7 billion in cash, along with a 10% shareholding in Evraz, for deal value of about $3 billion. In the currently depressed steel market, the assets are worth considerably less. If Evraz were to be expropriated, however, the impact on the Evraz steelmills in Russia would be small, because the largest consumers of the iron-ore from the Sukha Balka mines, south of Dniepropetrovsk, are Evraz’s Ukrainian steelmaking operations. In 2013 Sukha Balka produced almost 3 million tonnes of ore, up 14% on the year before. An independent valuation of Sukha Balka put it at $103 million in 2010. At Nikolaev the alumina refinery belonging to Russia’s aluminium monopoly, United Company Rusal, is a more valuable asset. It is also one whose place is important in Rusal’s production chain for aluminium in Russia, especially the two largest aluminium smelters which it supplies with feedstock, Krasnoyarsk and Bratsk. On January 23, when Oleg Deripaska, Rusal’s chief executive and control shareholder, was asked to comment on the situation in Ukraine, he was relaxed about the location of his assets in “the safe zone in the south”. In addition to the Nikolaev Alumina Refinery (NGZ), Rusal owns the Zaporozhye complex (ZALK) which produces both alumina and aluminium. Since the end of 2011, however, Zaporozhye has produced nothing. By contrast, output of alumina at Nikolaev has been steadily growing, offsetting production cuts at Rusal alumina plants elsewhere. Nikolaev has been designed to process bauxite from Rusal’s mines in the west African republic of Guinea. If there is an interruption of Nikolaev’s production, Rusal would have a problem of what to do with its Guinean bauxite, its characteristics aren’t suitable for other Rusal alumina refineries in Sardinia and Ireland. “If NGZ is closed temporarily, or nationalized,” according to a Rusal source, “then Rusal has nowhere to ship the Conakry bauxite to. If NGZ alumina supply to the Russian smelters is cut off, Rusal’s first supply alternative would be Australia — Kwinana and Bunbury — then Jamaica, and maybe even Brazil, as the company was buying limited alumina quantities from Brazil in the past. Shipments of bauxite from Rusal’s mining operation in Guyana must be mixed with the Guinean bauxite at Nikolaev.” According to Rusal’s latest production report, the Guyana output of bauxite in 2013 was 1.4 million tonnes, down 13% from 2012. Another Rusal source suggests that if Rusal lost control of NGZ, “the alternative option would be to revive and increase alumina production in Sardinia and Ireland. But in that case, more bauxite will have to be bought from the market, and the cost of alumina will jump.” A source in Conakry reports that reopening Rusal’s alumina refinery at Friguia is impossible. “The city has been in a state of emergency these past days – one dead already, and the population threatens to kill any uniformed individual they encounter.” A Moscow source adds that since Rusal halted the Friguia plant in April of 2012, equipment has been stolen or damaged. Restarting the plant would take up to eighteen months, the source estimates. In Rusal’s initial public offering (IPO) prospectus of December 31, 2009, the company acknowledged that its assets in Ukraine were vulnerable to expropriation. “The political environment in Ukraine in recent years has been particularly unstable, with frequent changes of government. Private enterprises, including the Group’s businesses, can be affected by these political changes. The Group acquired the Nikolaev alumina refinery in a privatisation that was challenged in the past, and the Zaporozhye aluminium complex in a privatisation that is currently being challenged…Political change in Ukraine could result in a revival or intensification of such challenges.” (page 46). Under pressure from Kiev, Rusal added in the prospectus, the company renegotiated the terms of its privatization of NGZ. “In March 2000, the Group acquired a 30% interest in Nikolaev alumina refinery in an auction. In accordance with the original agreement with the State Property Fund of Ukraine, the Group was obligated to construct a primary aluminium plant with a production capacity at a minimum level of 100,000 metric tonnes. In August 2004, the Group re-negotiated the terms of the agreement with the State Property Fund of Ukraine. In accordance with the revised agreement, the Group is obliged to increase the production capacity of Nikolaev alumina refinery by up to 1,600 thousand metric tonnes per year. The revised agreement nullifies the requirement stipulated in the original agreement to construct a primary aluminium plant.” In 2013 output at NGZ was still below the agreement level at 1,494,000 tonnes. Following the drop in aluminium prices and loss of trade in 2008 and 2009, Rusal reported that it was writing down the value of NGZ by $98 million to $334 million. At that valuation it represents just over 3% of Rusal’s estimated book value. A spokesman for Rusal said yesterday the current situation in Ukraine “has not affected [NGZ] at all.” Local reports indicate demonstrations for and against the Kiev government at Nikolaev, as well as at nearby Kherson and Odessa. Road traffic between Kherson and Nikolaev has also been reported to have been interrupted over the weekend. According to the Rusal spokesman, the movement of cargoes by road and rail, and from the port, “has not changed at all. Everything is still functioning normally.” A source close to Rusal says the Ukrainian plant might run into temporary interruption, but expropriation, renationalization, or resale is unlikely. “There is no obvious buyer. If Rusal were to lose NGZ, the refinery could not operate without Guinean bauxite. Alternative supplies might be available from Alcoa [which also mines bauxite in Guinea], but I don’t think Alcoa would be interested to buy NGZ even for a single dollar.” This article originally appeared at Dances With Bears. John Helmer is the longest continuously serving foreign correspondent in Russia, and the only western journalist to direct his own bureau independent of single national or commercial ties. Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
YouTubeMt. Gox CEO Mark KarpelesLast week, Mt. Gox CEO Mark Karpeles admitted that the exchange's 850,000 bitcoins — worth nearly half a billion dollars — were gone. The firm, Karpeles said in a press conference in Tokyo, is filing for bankruptcy. Those who held bitcoin with Mt. Gox were left to vent their frustrations online — and try to potentially organize for litigation. And some Bitcoin enthusiast argued that Mt. Gox had to die in order for Bitcoin to live in more above-board fashion. Either way, this thread from a Bitcoin forum posted to Reddit shows some of the sad stories: People who say they have lost their entire life savings or can't tell their spouses how much they've lost. This is a big story from the first era of Bitcoin, and it can't keep having these episodes if it's going to thrive. These are from right before Mt. Gox filed bankruptcy (via Adrianne Jeffries): -- I am in Japan and have deposited 12.499 million Yen (about USD 122,000) at MtGox from October to December 2013. I currently have 175 BTCs and 13,000 Yen in cash at their exchange. I also have a Premium status account. Please let me know how to proceed. That was most of my retirement money.-- My name is xxx and I live in Sweden, Malmö. I am writing for me and for my girlfriend and my dad. We all bought and sold bitcoins a last years and made some money. We have taken out some money when we need to and right now me and my girlfriend was going to buy a house and start a family so we tried to withdraw the money in January. Since the money didn't show up after 4 weeks I tried to contact them but still nothing. I hope that together with you and some others get at least some money back. If you need any proof of the withdrawals or such I can provide some of it. We had in total $49000 on the accounts.--  have about 90 BTC and no USD in my mtgox account, which I would very much like to receive back at some point. It's only just sinking in that it might all be gone.. I can't believe I waited so long before getting it out somewhere safe, but.. here we are.-- Hey there, I am interested in being a plaintiff as well. I had about 70k in Mtgox in Dec due to the price explosion in November and attempted to withdraw some funds since I wasn't comfortable having that amount hosted there.  I ran into the withdrawal issue back in Dec and opened a support ticket in which I got the run around until they finally officially announced what the problem was.  As the moment, I don't have any $$ in Mtgox but around 180 BTC.  My stomach has been in knots all week :-(-- Hi, My name is xxxxxx and I am from California (if that matters).  I have about 650 BTC in Gox.  I haven't slept in days and haven't been able to tell my wife how much I've lost.  I was an early adopter, just mining in my basement, and I can't imagine all of my time and work vanishing like this.  Please contact me with what I need to do-- I am a French citizen.  I would like to know how to try and join you in reclaiming my lost funds.  I had almost 100.000 EUR in my account.  It will be a complete disaster for me if it is stolen.-- I cannot reasonably afford to lose the funds I have at Mtgox. I currently hold the majority in USD, but also significant amounts of EUR and BTC.-- I'm a student and this is almost all of my money I have left (I actually have a lot of debt, which I intended to pay back with that money). I'm really panicking right now and not sure what to do!!!-- I'm in Tokyo as well and I lost ~8 BTC and 500,000 in JPY. Please let me know how your case progresses and whether at any time you think it would be possible to get others involved. I really hope I can get at least some of that money back. I need it.-- Hey, I'd like to get involved in this as well. Gox has yet to deliver a withdrawal of funds from late last year and currently has all my coins locked up because of their withdrawal lock. Email is below, let me know if you need any other info. Thanks -- (originally I tried to withdraw $30,000.00, but Mt.Gox cancelled my withdraw and asked me to change to GBP. Funds never arrived--&gt; Mt.Gox confirmed they were unable to wire funds, but funds are not re-instated to my account. Mt.Gox admits in the e-mail funds are mine.)-- I found your post just today after the Gox closed the site. I had 10,200 USD with them, which I traded just last week for gox coin. I initially deposited USD from bank account on November 2013, and traded on Gox just about 2 weeks ago, not knowing there was a trouble to withdraw any BTC from them. I do have screen shots from last week from trading and all my history since November 2013. My initial deposits in November have been 8000 USD and 2200 USD, so whatever trading I did in last weeks was for vain since gox did not let any BTC out of the site. Current standing on my account is about 27 BTC and around 2200 USD but since gox coin was never a real BTC, as I just learnt recently, I consider Gox owing me 10200 USD which I initially deposited.-- I wish to be include in the class action lawsuit, I an non-us (EU) and have lost 50 BTC and 24,600€.-- I would like to join the lawsuit if there is any chance of getting the either the BTC or EURO-equivalent at the price determined at the time of judgement.I would be thankful for any news / suggestions / ideas.Thank you very much-- I want to participate. I have 85 BTC on Mt Gox.-- Please update me and let me know, which further steps I have to take to participate. -- I had $28500 in, and purchased 50btc @ $570.  So now I have the 49.7btc still in and no fiat.  Have been waiting for withdrawal to resume to clean myself of gox forever.-- I was very lucky, having pulled out the bulk of my btc holdings from gox in mid-January.-- Please respond if whether I can or can't participate.-- I have 37 BTCs and wnt to be part of your lawsuit. Please send me more details.-- i too am a Gox victim.  I have 69 BTC stuck on Gox. At this stage i would be very reluctant to take such a haircut and convert to USD.-- I have roughly $100K in my account, so it might be worth it for the lawyer to squeeze me in.-- I have 50BTC in MTGOX and would be interested in joining. If yes, how large would the fees be?-- If Mtgox is indeed gone and finished, I would like to know what the status of this suit is and who I can contact regarding it. I had about 111.777 BTC on gox.-- I have 158 btc on MtGox and would like to take part to your lawsuit.-- Most of our holdings were in bitcoin, and at market rates on other exchanges, I had over $40,000 while my friends had $300,000 to 400,000.-- I have 154 BTC and 0 USD in MTGOX.-- I live in Malta but would like to know what my options are for joining your case?-- Hey. Mt. Gox has owed me roughly 1,800 USD for more than 6 months. Two transactions. One they're claiming technical difficulties to Dwolla which never went through, and one they just never sent to my bank. Check out the full thread at Bitcoin Talk » FREE AppDownload
Home prices (including distressed sales) climbed 12% year-over-year in January, according to the latest CoreLogic home price report. This is the 23rd straight month of annual home price gains.  Month-over-month, home prices were up 0.9%. Ex-distressed sales (short sales and real estate owned transactions) home prices were up 9.8% on the year and 0.7% on the month. "Polar vortices and a string of snow storms did not manage to weaken house price appreciation in January," Mark Fleming, chief economist at CoreLogic said in a press release. "The last time January month-over-month and year-over-year price appreciation was this strong was at the height of the housing bubble in 2006." Here are some details from the report: Here's a trajectory of home prices including and excluding distressed homes since January 2002: CoreLogic FREE AppDownload
WikimediaRadioShack is closing 1,100 underperforming stores. Just last year, RadioShack announced it had remodeled a handful of stores and had a new strategy.  But a new strategy isn't enough to fix RadioShack's problems, Warren Shoulberg wrote in a column on The Robin Report in December.  His column helps shed light on why sales fell 19% last quarter.  "It’s a store that has been passed by, with a format, merchandise mix and physical presence that no longer registers with the American consuming public," writes Shoulberg, who is the editorial director for several business publications. "There just aren’t enough batteries in the world to recharge Radio Shack." He highlighted some of RadioShack's worst problems:  FREE AppDownload
AMCThe scourge of every investor is the so-called "dumb money effect." It's the idea that when markets are down, investors get scared and yank their cash but when markets are up, investors get too trigger-happy and make bets at the top. "Investors can counterbalance this tendency by making predictions that place more weight on past results and less on recent outcomes," argues Credit Suisse's Michael  Mauboussin. You can actually see the dumb money effect spelled out in market data.  Mauboussin notes that the annual total shareholder return was 9.3% for the S&amp;P 500 over the past 20 years. The average mutual fund returned 1-1.5% less, due largely to transaction costs. "But the average return that investors earned was another 1–2 percentage points less than that of the average actively managed fund," writes Mauboussin. "This means that the investor return was roughly 60 – 80% that of the market." Why would individual investors fare worse than mutual funds? The root of the problem, Mauboussin writes, is "bad timing." It's the dumb money effect at work. Mauboussin explains how investors can counteract it using the chart below. From Credit Suisse: This chart shows the correlation coefficient for year-to-year total shareholder returns for the S&amp;P 500 from 1928 to 2013 as well as the MSCI World Index from 1970 to 2013. In both cases, the r is very close to zero. In practical terms, this means that the best prediction of next year's return is something consistent with the base rate. For the S&amp;P 500 from 1928 to 2013, for instance, the base rate is a nominal arithmetic return of 11.3 percent with a standard deviation of about 20 percent. ... And what about 2014? Andrew Garthwaite, Global Equity Strategist at Credit Suisse, forecasts total shareholder returns in the range of 9 percent for the United States equity market and 13 percent for global equities for 2014. The basis for this short-term forecast is that Credit Suisse's strategy team continues to believe that equity valuations remain attractive relative to bonds and that flows into equities have more to go. Naturally, a long-term forecast should appeal to the accumulation of data in the Yearbook. Since 1900, the return for US equities has exceeded that of ex-US equities by 1.9 percentage points per annum. The lesson should be clear. Since year-to-year results for the stock market are very difficult to predict, investors should not be lured by last year's good results any more than they should be repelled by poor outcomes. It is better to focus on long-term averages and avoid being too swayed by recent outcomes. Avoiding the dumb money effect boils down to maintaining consistent exposure. Here's the chart Mauboussin references above. The correlation between last year's returns and next year's returns are basically zero. Credit SuisseThe correlation between last year's returns and next year's returns are basically zero. Check out the full piece at Credit Suisse » FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Joi ItoActivist investor Carl Icahn and eBay board member Marc Andreessen have traded open letters for what feels like forever now. Today, Andreessen is out with a response to Icahn's letter from yesterday, which again accuses him of a conflict of interest. Icahn has argued Andreessen's conflicts on eBay are "clear and insurmountable" because Andreessen cost eBay shareholders a hefty $4 billion payout when his company bought a portion of Skype instead of letting it IPO. Essentially, Icahn argues that Andreessen can't be a good board member because as an investor he has dual loyalties. Andreessen cites comments from Icahn from back in 2011 that he claims contradict Icahn's stance today on what exactly constitutes a conflict of interest. He uses Icahn's own words against him to show that Icahn once forcefully defended the inherent conflicts of interests that arise when investors are on the boards of public companies. Here's one Icahn quote that Andreessen cites (from 2011) Potential conflicts of interest are by no means rare, though, and seem to be especially frequent among technology and biotech companies. Each of those fields tends to be intensely technical by nature, and corporations involved in those areas often find that it is useful to have a board of directors with significant experience in those areas, which means that at least minor conflicts of interest often arise. In addition, these firms are frequently funded by venture capital; the venture capital firms invariably put their own directors on the boards; and those directors or their firms often have direct and material conflicts of interest because they usually fund/control potentially competitive corporations as well.” (1) Check out the full letter: According to Carl Icahn, venture capital board members are fine for Carl Icahn in 2011 but not fine for eBay in 2014. When Carl Icahn’s board nominees’ business activities created conflicts, Mr. Icahn has argued forcefully that a board should and could manage those conflicts if his nominees were elected by shareholders. Contrary to Mr. Icahn’s theory today – that a venture capital director cannot be “trusted to objectively advise” a board if he or she has potential conflicts – Mr. Icahn, in 2011, provided the following information to shareholders of another company, Forest Laboratories, in response to questions raised about whether his director nominees were conflicted: In defense of his own nominees: “Potential conflicts of interest are by no means rare, though, and seem to be especially frequent among technology and biotech companies. Each of those fields tends to be intensely technical by nature, and corporations involved in those areas often find that it is useful to have a board of directors with significant experience in those areas, which means that at least minor conflicts of interest often arise. In addition, these firms are frequently funded by venture capital; the venture capital firms invariably put their own directors on the boards; and those directors or their firms often have direct and material conflicts of interest because they usually fund/control potentially competitive corporations as well.” (1) On his own nominees’ potential conflicts: “The biopharma industry has standard practices on how to deal with potential director conflicts regarding business development opportunities. Directors simply recuse themselves in the event of a vote or decision that may present a conflict. The benefit of drawing upon knowledge and experience from shared, collective service on multiple biopharma boards heavily outweighs the potential conflict in these rare situations which are easily managed through recusal.” (2) Mr. Icahn also approved walling off directors as a sufficient way to address a conflict: “A general set of ‘best practices’ has evolved for dealing with [conflicts of interest],” and can “be dealt with by the methods used by thousands of other public and private corporations” and handled “with professionalism and very little fuss and bother… Given the ubiquity of such conflicts, as well as similar situations in which directors or senior management might have conflicting interests, a general set of ‘best practices’ has evolved for dealing with them. The first, and perhaps most important measure is that the existence of the potential conflict needs to be disclosed by the director to the board. Here, of course, that has already been done. Second, the directors should determine, on a case by case basis, whether they should wall themselves off from conflicted directors when making a decision with respect to a conflicted transaction.” (1) “To the extent these potential conflicts of interest actually exist, they are routine matters with which corporate boards of directors normally deal and pose no significant issues.” (1) “An appropriate conflicts and recusal policy similarly could ameliorate any information-sharing concerns that might theoretically arise from interlocking board members.” (1) Why does Carl Icahn in 2014 think that Carl Icahn in 2011 was so obviously and blatantly engaged in terrible corporate governance? Sources: (1) Mr. Icahn and his affiliates filed two opinions of legal counsel as supporting proxy materials in his proxy fight for Forest Laboratories: Letter from Ashby &amp; Geddes, Counsel to Icahn Capital LP, 8/7/2011http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/38074/000092847511000188/frxdfan14a081111.txt Letter from Arnold &amp; Porter LLP, Antitrust Counsel to Icahn Capital LP, 8/7/2011http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/38074/000092847511000179/frxdfan14a080811ap.txt 2) Open Letter from the Icahn Group to Forest Laboratories Shareholders, 4/7/ 2011http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/38074/000092847511000174/frxdfan14a080811.txt Disclosure: Marc Andreessen is an investor in Business Insider. FREE AppDownload
Julia La Roche for Business InsiderAt the Sohn Conference in 2012 — That's David Einhorn, just chilling with his name tag on hanging out with his mom, Nancy. They're really cute.The Sohn Investment Conference is now teaming up with Bloomberg LINK, Bloomberg LLP's conference business, to produce its epic annual investment conference, leaving TV rivals like CNBC with some tough decisions to make about how to proceed with coverage. To understand why this is a big deal on Wall Street, you have to understand how Wall Street conferences work. There are basically three annual (public) investment conferences that the financial industry waits for with bated breath  — SkyBridge Capital's SALT conference in Las Vegas, CNBC's Delivering Alpha, and (the grandaddy of them all) The Sohn Investment Conference. These conferences draw the biggest names — the Bill Ackmans and Jim Chanos' of the world — and move markets with their presentations. The proceeds of the Sohn Conferences (which take place in NYC, London, San Francisco and Hong Kong) go to the Sohn Foundation, which raises funds to fight childhood cancer. Every journalist covers Sohn —CNBC, Bloomberg, Reuters, you name it — and everyone is looking for some way to stand out and dominate coverage. You want to be the fastest, the most comprehensive, the smartest. Since Sohn had never been associated with any news organization, the whole field was wide open for anyone to win it. All press has always been invited and still is. That's why it's interesting that Bloomberg got this gig. It's no secret that CNBC has an 'us-first-or-not-at-all' policy  about TV guests and events. And in the 20 years that The Sohn Foundation has been throwing these conferences, they've never partnered with anyone — especially not a company with a business news arm — until now. Bottom line, there's no way that this isn't getting some serious thought inside CNBC headquarters. “As we embark on the next phase of our continued expansion, both in the U.S. and abroad, we’ve found an ideal partner in Bloomberg LINK,” said Douglas Hirsch, co-chair of the Sohn Conference Foundation. “Bloomberg’s business conferences are among the best anywhere, and the company’s track-record of excellence and innovation matches the ethos of the Foundation perfectly. Most importantly, our organizations share a deep belief in our charitable mission.” Robert Bierman, head of Bloomberg LINK, said the organization was "honored to partner with such a long-standing and successful organization that not only convenes the world's top investors, but also has a tremendous impact on pediatric cancer research." CNBC had no comment. FREE AppDownload
North Sea Brent crude oil traded in the narrowest price range since 2006 last year, according to the EIA. Moreover daily fluctuations were the lowest in a decade.  North Sea Brent is used as benchmark for the price of oil from Europe, Africa, and the Middle East. From the report: "Price volatility in 2013 was at its lowest level over the 2006-13 period, as many of the factors that had been driving instability in oil prices were mitigated.  "Despite Libyan outages similar to those in 2011, Saudi Arabia maintained its production to smooth out the effects. Rising U.S. oil production also helped offset some of the losses of oil on world markets, resulting in supply being more in line with market expectations. The economic recovery became more evident as the European debt crisis waned and U.S. unemployment fell." "The minimum closing price for 2013 was $97.69 per barrel (bbl) on April 17, and the maximum closing price was $118.90/bbl on February 8, representing a trading range of $21.21 for the year," they noted. EIA FREE AppDownload
Here is what to do if you are on a commercial flight where a) both of your pilots become incapacitated and b) you are the one who decides to step up to the plate and land the thing.  Produced by Justin Gmoser. Follow BI: On Facebook    
PIMCOIn his new monthly "Investment Outlook," bond king Bill Gross gives us a peak into how the investment process works at PIMCO. "Almost permanently affixed on the whiteboard of PIMCO’s Investment Committee boardroom is a series of concentric circles, resembling the rings of a giant redwood, although in this case exhibiting an expanding continuum of asset classes with the safest in the center and the riskiest on the outer circles," writes Gross. "Safest in the core are Treasury bills and overnight repo, which then turn outwards towards riskier notes and bonds, and then again into credit space with corporate, high yield, commodities and equities amongst others on the extremities," he adds. However, Gross notes that the message of this diagram is much more complex than it seems. "Change the price of credit at the center and you change the price of assets at the outer extremities...In addition to the changing policy rate at the center, asset prices on the outer circles are dependent on investor expectations and the confidence in policymakers and the effectiveness of their policies. The center must have credibility, the center must “hold” or else the entire array of asset prices at the extremities is at risk." That's pretty much the gist of Gross' note. "If the center holds, if global central bankers can convince investors that their abnormal policies can recreate a semblance of the old normal economy, then risk assets at the outer edges of our circle will have higher future returns than otherwise," he continued. "As long as artificially low policy rates persist, then artificially high-priced risk assets are not necessarily mispriced. Low returning, yes, but mispriced? Not necessarily." "If central bankers lose “cred,” the center may not hold, markets may not outperform cash." Read Gross' whole note at PIMCO.com. FREE AppDownload
en.wikipedia.orgAs geopolitical uncertainty surrounding Ukraine sent commodity prices on a roller coaster ride this week, it could be time for U.S. shale oil to take center stage, some analysts told CNBC. Prices of European and U.S. crude rose over $2 a barrel on Monday, after a bloodless invasion of Ukrainian peninsula Crimea by Russian troops sparked worries over disruptions to global energy markets. Meanwhile, U.K. gas for April delivery climbed 10 percent on Monday, the largest one-day gain since September 2011. On Tuesday, oil prices eased after President Vladimir Putin ordered troops that took part in military exercises in central and western Russia to return to base. But investors remained nervous. Gaurav Sodhi, resources analyst at Intelligent Investor, told CNBC Asia's Squawk Box, that volatility around Ukraine would cast a more favorable light on the U.S.'s growing energy independence. "This will be a test of the new American shale prowess, a chance to prove supply can respond to higher prices. If they are the new Saudis, now is the time to prove it," he said. Meanwhile, David Lennox, resources analyst at Fat Prophets, told CNBC anxiety surrounding Ukraine's predicament had underscored geopolitical stability in the U.S. "Their investment in shale oil production is head and shoulders above the rest of the world, this situation gives the U.S. the opportunity to show their potential," he added. Shale oil - also known as kerogen oil - involves the extraction of oil and gas from shale rock through hydraulic fracking. Strong production numbers out of the U.S. have fueled hopes that the U.S. could one day become energy independent. The Energy Information Administration (EIA) - has forecast production in the continent to average 9.2 million barrels a day in 2015. "The reason we have huge spikes in prices is because producers can't quickly respond to changes in the price level and that's not the case for shale. The claim of American shale producers is that they are a stabilizing force for global oil prices in a way that other countries can't be," added Sodhi. If U.S. shale producers can respond more quickly to higher prices by hiking supply, this would be a positive development for the global energy markets worldwide, added Sodhi. "It means these price spikes that happen from time to time are probably going to be less frequent," he said. Russia's invasion of Ukraine has rattled energy analysts, given that Russia provides a quarter of Europe's natural gas, half of which flows through Ukraine, a factor behind the spike in energy prices. But Alejandro Barbajosa, oil markets specialist at Argus, told CNBC attention was already on the U.S. shale oil and gas market, and without this positive fundamental driver oil prices would have been much more volatile over recent days. "Without shale the price of Brent would have spiked to $120 a barrel and U.S. crude would be up at $115," he said. Barbajosa added, however, that he did not think U.S. shale oil and gas producers would be able to ramp up production in immediate response to any supply threats in other parts of the world, however. "The U.S. is already producing as much as they can at 8 million barrels a day. If Russia were to cut supplies, could the U.S. compensate? No. Long term, they could increase their fuel exports, but they would not be able to make any short-term moves," he added. On Tuesday, Brent fell back more than $1 to touch a low of $110.12 a barrel after Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered his troops occupying Crimea back to base, while U.S crude declined to eased around 70 cents to trade at around $104.19 a barrel. FREE AppDownload
The meltdown in yields is attributable to the meltdown in the Eurozone’s inflation rate, which is somewhat worrisome if it turns into deflation. On Friday, February's flash CPI for the region was up 0.8% y/y, unchanged from the month before. That’s well below the ECB's target of 2% and within the “danger zone” of below 1% as defined by the bank's president, Mario Draghi. This inflation rate was 2.7% two years ago and 1.8% a year ago. Yesterday, we learned that the Eurozone's M-PMI dipped from 54.0 during January to 53.2 last month. That’s still a solid reading. Germany's dipped but was at 54.8, and even Italy's (52.3) and Spain's (52.5) remained above 50. Ed Yardeni Today's Morning Briefing: Cold War II. (1) The Dirty Half-Dozen: Six worries for the bulls according to the bears. (2) Hot and cold world wars. (3) Upbeat employment stats in US regional surveys. (4) Yields melting down in Eurozone. (5) Draghi’s “danger zone.” (6) Chinese set to announce latest GDP growth target. (7) Will it matter if Abenomics fails? (8) Yellen vs. Plosser: Debating forward guidance. (9) Merkel vs. Putin: Who is in touch with reality? (10) Crimea and lots of other crimes. (11) Summering in Sevastopol. (12) Heating up Cold War II? Not likely. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
Mike Nudelman/Business InsiderAnother Bitcoin site disappears. This time Flexcoin — which called itself a bitcoin bank — has announced that it's going out of business after a huge theft that has wiped it clean. This is the announcement. There's no sugarcoating it. Somehow all the bitcoins were just taken. On March 2nd 2014 Flexcoin was attacked and robbed of all coins in the hot wallet. The attacker made off with 896 BTC, dividing them into these two addresses: 1NDkevapt4SWYFEmquCDBSf7DLMTNVggdu 1QFcC5JitGwpFKqRDd9QNH3eGN56dCNgy6 As Flexcoin does not have the resources, assets, or otherwise to come back from this loss, we are closing our doors immediately. Users who put their coins into cold storage will be contacted by Flexcoin and asked to verify their identity. Once identified, cold storage coins will be transferred out free of charge. Cold storage coins were held offline and not within reach of the attacker. All other users will be directed to Flexcoin's "Terms of service" located at "Flexcoin.com/118.html" a document which was agreed on, upon signing up with Flexcoin. Flexcoin will attempt to work with law enforcement to trace the source of the hack. Updates will be posted on twitter as soon as they become available. It seems unlikely that this will have much effect on the future of Bitcoin. The Mt. Gox collapse — which was much bigger — was largely shrugged off by the community, which sees the need to become more sophisticated.   FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsElectronics retailer RadioShack just released its Q4 financial results, and the numbers are ugly. Comparable store sales fell 19% year-over-year. This resulted in an adjusted net loss of $1.29 per share, which was much worse than the $0.13 expected by analysts. "Our fourth quarter financial results were driven by a holiday season characterized by lower store traffic, intense promotional activity particularly in consumer electronics, a very soft mobility marketplace and a few operational issues," said CEO Joseph Magnacca. Management announced plans to close 1,100 "underperforming" stores. "We will continue to have a strong, unmatched presence across the U.S. with over 4,000 stores including over 900 dealer franchise locations," added Magnacca.  The stock is down by over 20% in pre-market trading. Here's the activity charted via MarketWatch: MarketWatch   FREE AppDownload
btckeychainThanks to intriguing stories of quickly-made fortunes, online drug sales and financial scandals, everyone has heard of Bitcoin. Strangely, nobody knows who created it. It all began with a paper written by "Satoshi Nakamoto" and quietly published via a cryptography mailing list in 2008. The author laid out a plan for an " electronic payment system based on cryptographic proof instead of trust ". It was methodical, neat and sagely predicted future problems. It was also well-written in perfect English. Clearly this was no sketch on a napkin: it took intelligence, experience and time. But Satoshi Nakamoto was a pseudonym - a male Japanese name that loosely translates as “wise”. No such person exists. The paper may have one author or many, but whoever it was has diligently kept it secret for years. And they left precious little in the way of clues. There was an email address in the paper: satoshin@gmx.com. In the early days someone would reply and answer technical questions. It also pointed to a website, www.bitcoin.org, but the domain had been purchased through an anonymous service. In some correspondence he had used the phrase “bloody hard”, steering us away from an American towards a Briton. Clever analysis of when he made appearances online suggested that he was usually asleep from 5am to 11am GMT, contradictorily suggesting an American - or a nocturnal programmer. At other times he claimed to be 37 and confirmed that he was Japanese, but this was met with skepticism because of his use of slang. Oddly, he once left a link to a Times article in the blockchain, possibly to add weight to its dating. Satoshi was extremely active in the development of the open-source software which powers Bitcoin. But towards the end of 2010, perhaps sensing that the project had gathered enough momentum to survive his withdrawal, he started to fade away. The last thing anybody ever heard from him was in April 2011 when he emailed a Bitcoin contributor and said he had “moved on to other things”. Because of his early involvement in bitcoin, Satoshi is thought to be extremely wealthy. New Bitcoins are "mined" by performing complex cryptographic calculations which also serve to authenticate transactions. In the early days Bitcoins were far easier to mine than they now are, and worth far less. Security researcher Sergio Demian Lerner believes - but can’t categorically prove - that Satoshi mined around 1,000,000BTC and has never spent any . At a price of $1,000 each, that would make him worth around a billion dollars - around the same as the GDP of the Seychelles. Considering his immense wealth and integral role in launching one of the largest economic experiments ever conducted, it’s not surprising that lots of people have tried to uncover Satoshi's real identity. The most recent of many theories comes from Josh Zerlan, chief operating officer of Butterfly Labs, the makers of specific hardware to mine bitcoins. Speaking to IBTimes UK at a bitcoin conference in India, he said: "One of the prevailing theories, I think has credibility, is that it was some group of people from financial sector that created this. They released it and stepped back and let it go. So, Satoshi Nakamoto is a group of people, I think, is a reasonable possibility." He names no names, or explains what their motivation would be. The New Yorker published a piece pointing at two possible Satoshis, one of whom seemed particularly plausible: a cryptography graduate student from Trinity College, Dublin, who had gone on to work in currency-trading software for a bank and published a paper on peer-to-peer technology. The other was a Research Fellow at the Oxford Internet Institute, Vili Lehdonvirta. Both made denials. Fast Company highighted an encryption patent application filed by three researchers - Charles Bry, Neal King and Vladimir Oks­man - and a circumstantial link involving textual analysis of it and the Satoshi paper which found the phrase "...computationally impractical to reverse" in both. Again, it was flatly denied. All three men also collaborated on a second paper backed by a Munich-based firm called Lantiq. The company was founded in 2009, the same year that the Bitcoin paper was first published, but did not answer phone calls or reply to emails when I tried to ask if there was any link. This year two Israeli mathematicians wrote a paper claiming that there was a link between Satoshi Nakamoto, the mythical creator of Bitcoin, and Ross Ulbricht, who has been arrested and charged with running the underground online drugs market Silk Road. They claimed, after analyzing the blockchain, that there was a financial link, but later issued a statement retracting it after their claims were debunked by a Reddit user. But all of these accusations have gotten us no closer to the truth. Jeff Garzick was one of the core of software engineers who latched on to Bitcoin when it emerged and helped to protect it from attacks, guided its future direction and released new versions of the client software. He was a developer for Linux distribution Red Hat when he was headhunted by Bitcoin processing firm BitPay this May. He now works on the crypto-currency full-time. Speaking to CoinDesk he said: “Satoshi was a fantastic designer and architect. He spent a couple of years thinking about the system, and then according to what he said, he had to write the system to prove to himself that it would work.” But he also said that the early version of Bitcoin was "a jumble of source code". “He was the oracle to which we would go for questions about the system, but he rarely followed standard engineering practices, like writing unit or stress tests or any of the standard qualitative analysis that we’d perform on software. Several things had to be disabled almost immediately upon public release of Bitcoin because they were obviously exploitable.” Sentiment in the more paranoid parts of the cryptography community is that the NSA is a potential creator, as the protocol leaves a permanent trail of transactions that could be a very useful tool for law enforcement. Certainly, anonymity is one of the biggest myths about Bitcoin. In fact, there has never been a more easily traceable method of payment. Every single transaction is recorded and retained permanently in the public “blockchain”. The idea that the NSA would create an anarchic, peer-to-peer crypto-currency in the hope that it would be adopted for nefarious industries and become easy to track would have been a lot more difficult to believe before the recent leaks by Edward Snowden and the revelation that billions of phone calls had been intercepted by the US security services. We are now in a world where we now know that the NSA was tracking the pornography habits of Islamic “radicalizes” in order to discredit them and making deals with some of the world’s largest internet firms to insert backdoors into their systems. There are precedents, too. The Tor anonymous browsing tool was originally sponsored by the US Naval Research Laboratory and, as of last year, 80 per cent of the project's $2m annual budget comes from the US government. And the SHA-2 cryptographic functions that are a core part of the Bitcoin network, as well as many others including the Transport Layer Security (TLS) protocols which encrypt much of the sensitive data you bounce back and forward online every day, were originally designed by the NSA. In the interests of fair play, I asked the NSA: did they create bitcoin? A couple of weeks later I got a one-line reply: “Given the volume of media requests that we’re handling, I can’t assist you with your research at this time.” A second email the next day suggested that I speak to Tim Carver, a professor of computer science at Trine University, with no explanation as to why. So I emailed him, and got a reply denying any link with the NSA, explaining that he was doing research on Bitcoin and offering his own thoughts on who Satoshi was: “I can only offer an opinion. Having read Satoshi’s original work, the paper has the voice of a single person. “Some papers I have read over the years are obviously written by multiple people. Imagine an article written by Stephen Hawking and John Cleese. Both are very intelligent men, but with different presentation styles. Two different voices. Satoshi’s paper is, in my opinion, one voice. I don’t know who’s voice it is, but it has the sound of only one.” Ultimately, we may never know who Satoshi was, but his legacy is a crypto-currency that doesn’t rely on us trusting him. Whether he was an anarchist, a security agency or a group of altruistic researchers, Bitcoin remains a valuable a tool. But his possible wealth leaves us with a very strange problem: if he does have 1,000,000BTC - more than four per cent of all the coins that will ever exist - what does he plan to do with them? The market has come to the conclusion that these are no longer a factor: their creation and destruction just a necessary step in getting Bitcoin up and running. If one day he spends even just a tiny fraction of a single bitcoin - remember that all of these transactions are public - it will show the market that they are still in play. What will that do to the price, the market and the protocol? Given that scenario, it suddenly feels even more important to know who Satoshi is and what his motivation was for creating a digital currency.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERSA woman looks through a damaged entrance door as pro-Russian demonstrators hold a rally outside the regional government building in Donetsk, Ukraine.Good morning! Here's what you need to know. Russia and Ukraine cool off. U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry will arrive in Kiev, but Russia's "ultimatum" against Ukrainian troops passed without conflict. Russian soldiers did fire warning shots at Ukrainian forces in Crimea, but Russian troops near the border were reportedly told to halt exercises and return to base. Russian President Vladimir Putin told the press that ousted Ukrainian leader Viktor Yanukovych is still the real president. "The legitimate president, Yanukovych, asked Russia to defend the lives and health of Ukrainians. So our major concern is the ... nationalists and radical extremists that are rampant on the streets of Kiev," he said. Global markets ease after yesterday's rout. Even though the situation is far from over, "Financial markets are short-sighted animals and everything is calmer," explained Kit Juckes of SocGen. Japan's Nikkei closed up 0.47% and Korea's KOSPI was 0.54% lower. European markets were higher, and U.S. futures pointed to a positive open. Even Russian stocks, which took a beating yesterday, are up 4%. Markets went on a tear as Putin spoke with the press. "As for the use of military use, there is no need for it," Putin said. "But we have that option." Gold falls. As further indication that markets think the Russian situation is cooling off, gold fell from its four month high after the Russian military drill ended, Bloomberg reports. Gold rose as much as 2.1% yesterday as the situation between the two countries intensified. A Kremlin aide makes a silly threat. Hardline Putin aide Sergei Glazyev threatened that if the U.S. were to impose sanctions, Russia would drop the dollar as a reserve currency and fail to pay off loans to U.S. banks, Reuters reports. An attempt to impose sanctions would end in a financial crash for the U.S., Glazyev threatened. "All you can do is laugh at the notion that Russia has the ability to induce of a crash of the US financial system by getting away from the dollar," wrote our Joe Weisenthal. "Sure, if Russia wants it can conduct transactions in any currency it likes, but that won't stop Russian counterparties from then exchanging whatever currencies they trade in for the dollar." Obama will release a new budget. The White House will offer its new plan today, which is expected to request $4 trillion in spending for the year beginning October 1. It will "propose larger tax credits for childless workers, a higher minimum wage, a redesigned military and the elimination of certain tax breaks for upper-income Americans," the Wall Street Journal's Damian Paletta reports. "Each of the initiatives has either been proposed before or telegraphed for weeks, and they lack legislative momentum. Rather, they represent the challenges that a president with weak poll numbers faces as he tries to refashion ideas at a time when coming fall elections frame almost every political decision." Russia stops its buying program after the rouble plummets. The Russian finance ministry says it's done buying foreign currencies on the open market due to "increased financial market volatility," the WSJ reports. "The finance ministry's decision to buy foreign currency worth 212.2 billion rubles by the end of May had a negative impact on the ruble in February despite the ministry's claim that its purchases won't have an impact on the exchange rate," according to the report. At 9:45 a.m., ISM New York will be released. Economist expect the regional indicator to come in at 63.2, down from 64.4 last month.  Australia holds rates. The Australian central bank kept interest rates at a record low 2.5% as the country tries to further ignite its economy. Trading revenue will slide yet again. Citigroup and JP Morgan warned investors for another dip in first-quarter trading revenue, Bloomberg reports. "Citigroup finance chief John Gerspach said yesterday his firm expects trading revenue to drop by a 'high mid-teens' percentage, less than a week after JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon said revenue from equities and fixed income was down about 15 percent," according to the report. Tesla will make a big European expansion. "By the end of this year, we expect you will be able to travel almost anywhere in Europe using only Superchargers," Tesla CEO Elon Musk said, referring to the expansion of Tesla's charger network in Europe. The U.S. carmaker expects by 2014, combined European and Asian sales will be twice as much as in North America, the FT notes. FREE AppDownload
REUTERSTraders speak on the phone and watch a monitor in Moscow's International Currency Exchange (MICEX) August 13, 1998.Via Dave Lutz of Stifel, Nicolaus, a roundup of what traders are talking about and how they see the market: Thanks to Putin’s soothing moves, the S&amp;P Futures are up 1%+ and eyeballing new all-time highs this AM.   While Putin declares a “Unconstitutional Coup” in Ukraine, he pulls troops back to bases, and says he has no plans to annex Crimera, raising hopes that a peaceful solution might be reached.  March VIX futures are off 8% early, reversing most of yesterday’s VIX surge.  Overseas markers are jubulent, with the DAX jumping 2% in volume almost 40% above recent trends and EU’s VIX is off 17% right now.   The EU fins, hard hit yesterday on exposure worries, are enjoying a 2.5% upside move.   Over in Asia – Shanghai lost small as their National Party Congress is about to open, where they will set a growth target (Most expecting 7-7.5%), and the Nikkei gained 50bp in light trading as major FX rallied against the Yen.    Most Ukraine Contagion markets are in rally mode – led by Russia popping 4% after yesterday’s 10% smack lower – and both turkey and Hungary adding 2%+ apiece.  Globally Materials and Industrials are among the best performing groups, but every subsector in EU/UK is in rally mode this morning.   Some Single stock movers include TSLA gaining 3.5% - dragging PLUG and FCEL (I’m Long) 10% higher as headlines suggest Tesla to Open Over 30 New Service Centers, Stores in Europe.The US 10YY is up 5bp and has now closed yesterday’s “gap” as risk aversion retreats – the 10YY is getting upside of the 200dma again this AM.   The € has a bid to it, as Eurozone PPI comes in stronger than expected ahead of the ECB’s rate decision on Thursday.   The $ has rallied back to the 102 level against the Yen, but the move seems to have stalled there overnight.   Overall the DXY is weaker, and back under the 80 level, causing a tailwind for commodities.    While Copper has a slight bid to it, Gold is retreating from 4M highs as traders unwind safety trades – and the Crude Complex is off almost 2%, and Corn/Wheat are off 1% as the geopolitical risk-premium retreats.   Scheduled Catalysts today include the release of President Obama’s Budget, ISM New York should post around 9:45, a small POMO at 11, and after the bell Fed's Lacker Speaks on Economy in New York at 4:15. FREE AppDownload
One Sotheby's International RealtyFrom the outside it could be the Miami Beach mansion of any Versace-clad millionaire. Located on Palm Island, just off the Florida coast, it has shiny white walls, towering palm trees and the obligatory swimming pool. As well as the enormous main home, there is a two-story guesthouse and a pool cabana. It is easy to imagine the owners hosting parties for rappers and actors. Yet 85 years ago, on February 14 1929, the property was the scene of a very different sort of party. Its owner, the mobster Al Capone, threw a lavish bash for his friends in the area. A thousand miles away, on the north side of Chicago, seven members of George “Bugs” Moran’s gang were lined up against the wall of a garage and shot dead with machine guns. The Valentine’s Day Massacre would become one of the most notorious events of the mobster era. Capone had promised not to organize any further gang activity after he moved to Miami, and the party provided him with the perfect alibi. Nonetheless, in the wake of the incident, Capone doubled the number of his guards and added extra fortifications. Now the mansion is for sale for $8.44m. Built in 1922, the house is part of a 30,000 sq ft waterfront estate. The seven-bedroom main house is 6,000 sq ft – room for you and plenty of your accomplices. “Al Capone bought it in 1928,” explains Andrea Polo of LuxuryEstate.com a website that is listing the sale. “He chose it when he was sent out of Los Angeles and Chicago. During the Prohibition, Miami was one of the best places to be for smuggling. It was very close to the Caribbean and particularly Havana, where lots of alcohol came from.” Capone’s arrival caused a stir, even in a city famed for its organized crime. He fell in love with the house, Polo explains, and spent much time and energy converting it to his rather specific needs. One Sotheby's International Realty“Capone basically transformed the house into a real castle, and a bunker for himself,” he says. “You can see from the structure of the place that it was very well fortified. The walls are high, and the doors are made from heavy iron. He had bodyguards and big, fierce dogs stationed along the perimeter. He also added a large swimming pool, white marble all around and the two-bedroom cabana.” Capone’s stay in Miami was not trouble-free. In 1930 the authorities finally caught up with him and he was jailed. Not for smuggling, extortion, murder or any other of his nefarious gang work, but for the rather less glamorous crime of tax-evasion. He spent eight years in jail, including a stint on Alcatraz, off the coast of San Francisco. When Capone returned from prison to the home in 1939, he was not the same gangster. He suffered increasingly from dementia brought on by his syphilis. Towards the end of his life, his family even hired a nurse to pose as a chauffeur, in order to protect members of the public from Capone’s outbursts of violence. The famous mobster died in 1947, and the house was inherited by Capone’s widow, Mae, and son Al Jr. They were unable to care for the property in the same way he had, and it fell into disrepair. The title deed vanished, only to reappear in 1971 when the property was bought by Hank Morrison, a retired airline pilot, for £42,000. By then the house was run down. Morrison spent a fortune doing it up, before renting it out as separate units. The home was again refurbished in 2011 and is now owned by a company run by a New York accountant. One Sotheby's International RealtyThere have been many changes to the property over the years, and Capone would not recognize many parts. But the general structure is similar, and some rooms – such as the black and gold Art Deco powder room – are unchanged since Capone’s day. The security features that once kept rival gang members and the police at bay now guarantee you privacy in the sunshine. Miami is a glamorous centre of art, music, culture and shopping, with plenty of festivals and fairs. And 80 years after prohibition, it still has an undercurrent of Caribbean-tinged mischief that makes it a mecca for party-seekers. The airport has frequent flights back to London and all over the world. For a buyer seeking a gorgeous beachfront villa with an unusual – if slightly macabre – past, this could be an offer you can’t refuse. *For sale for $8.44m through Sotheby’s (001 305 538 9711; sothebysrealty.com )  FREE AppDownload
Flick / Martin_Heigan Today is the exact opposite of yesterday. Stocks are surging everywhere. US futures are up over 1%. Germany is up over 2%. Russian stocks are up over 5%. The good times are being attributed to an apparent de-escelation (though by no means cessation) of the crisis in Ukraine. Puting just gave a press conference and struck a tone indicating that he would not take things to a more militaristic level. He said that Russia had the right to intervene in Crimea, although he insisted that there was no plan to make Crimea part of Russia. The Putin press conference came after earlier news that Russian troops massed on the Ukraine border for exercises were being told to return to their bases. Gold and oil are both tanking. FREE AppDownload
GettyThe soaring cost of cars and utilities as well as a strong currency have made Singapore the world's most expensive city, toppling Tokyo from the top spot, according to a survey Tuesday. Tokyo's weakening yen saw it slide to sixth place, the position previously occupied by Singapore, in the 2014 Worldwide Cost of Living survey by the Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU). "Singapore's rising price prominence has been steady rather than spectacular," said a report accompanying the survey by the research firm. It said a 40 percent rise in the Singapore dollar along with "solid price inflation" pushed the country to the top of the twice-yearly survey from 18th a decade ago. The survey, which examines prices across 160 products and services in 140 cities, is aimed at helping companies calculate allowances for executives being sent overseas. The report said Singapore's curbs on car ownership, which include a quota system and high taxes, made it "significantly more expensive than any other location when it comes to running a car". A new Toyota Corolla Altis costs $110,000 in Singapore compared to around $35,000 in neighboring Malaysia. Overall transport costs in Singapore are almost three times higher than those in New York, it said. "In addition, as a city-state with very few natural resources to speak of, Singapore is reliant on other countries for energy and water supplies, making it the third most expensive destination for utility costs," the report said. It also noted that Singapore is the priciest place in the world to buy clothes, as malls and boutiques in its popular Orchard Road retail hub import luxury European brands to "satisfy a wealthy and fashion-conscious consumer base". Singapore has one of the world's highest concentrations of millionaires relative to its 5.4 million population. Its per capita income of more than $51,000 in 2012 masks a widening income gap between the richest and poorest. In Europe, Paris rose six places to become the world's second most expensive city, a trend the EIU said was indicative of recovering European prices and currencies. "Improving sentiment in structurally expensive European cities combined with the continued rise of Asian hubs means that these two regions continue to supply most of the world's most expensive cities," Jon Copestake, the editor of the report, said in a statement. The report said European cities were among the priciest in the recreation and entertainment categories, reflecting "a greater premium on discretionary income". New York, which serves as the base city for the survey, was ranked 26th, while Sydney and Melbourne came in at fifth and sixth respectively owing to a strong Australian dollar. Caracas was tied at sixth with Melbourne, Geneva and Tokyo, but the EIU said the Venezuelan capital's position was largely due to the imposition of an artificially high official exchange rate. "If alternative black market rates were applied Caracas would comfortably become the world's cheapest city in which to live," it said. India's financial centre Mumbai was ranked the world's least expensive city, joining other South Asian cities including Karachi, New Delhi and Kathmandu in the bottom of the pile. The five most expensive cities were judged to be Singapore, Paris, Oslo, Zurich and Sydney in descending order. Caracas, Geneva, Melbourne and Tokyo were tied at sixth place while Copenhagen was tenth. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
Just out from Eurostat: Eurostat FREE AppDownload
One of the big dynamics underlining the Russia/Ukraine situation is the extent to which much of Europe is dependent on Russia for natural gas. In particular, there's a lot of dependency on the goliath purveyor of natural gas, Gazprom. This chart from Morgan Stanley gives a breakdown of how much each country depends on Gazprom. Morgan Stanley FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersOutgoing US Federal Reserve Board chairman Bernanke appears at Brookings Institution in WashingtonABU DHABI (Reuters) - The outlook for the U.S. economy is positive compared to the rest of the industrial world and there are good reasons to think it will keep growing at a rate of around 3 percent this year, former Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke said on Tuesday. Bernanke, making his first public speech since he left office in January, was addressing a financial conference in the capital of the United Arab Emirates. The housing sector, which was a big part of the U.S. slowdown, shows signs of recovering and the construction industry will expand, he said. However, he also said the crisis was not yet over in the United States. "The first thing the U.S. learnt is the U.S. is not invulnerable to crisis," he said. (Reporting by Martin Dokoupil and Stanley Carvalho; Writing by Andrew Torchia; Editing by Alison Williams) FREE AppDownload
REUTERSHere's an interesting comment from Morgan Stanley's Jonathan Garner, in which he lists three recent events that could spook emerging market investors. In the last few days, three unwelcome political developments have further clouded the outlook for APxJ / EM equities: --The Russian military incursion into Crimea in the aftermath of the Ukrainian revolution. --The Kunming railway station knife attack, which left 33 people dead. --A round of missile launches by North Korea both late last week and again today. The Russian military incursion has been sucking up all the oxygen in the media. And the North Korean missile launches (of which there were more this morning) are likely to be ignored. The Kunming railway station attack likely deserves more attention. Here's Garner: For China, the Kunming railway station attack appears to present an escalation of an ongoing series of terrorism incidents most likely originating in separatist movements in Xinjiang province (according to Chinese state media quoted in the Wall Street Journal, March 3, 2014). It follows an earlier high profile incident in Tiananmen Square in October last year that killed five people. Bloomberg reported that the Xinhua news agency stated that 190 terrorist attacks took place in the region in 2012 increasing “by a significant margin from 2011”. Other than the direct costs to the economy of enhanced security in public places, it will be important to monitor consumer activity as both recent attacks have targeted transportation / tourism destinations. Investors around the world monitor every little tick of the Chinese economy, in part because so many countries depend on China for trade. A rising terrorism threat is not going to put anyone at ease. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Alexander Natruskin Here's a good laugh. Sergei Glazyev — a Kremlin aide who's known for voicing extremist lines on policy — is out with some of the sillier threats imaginable to the US. From Reuters: A Kremlin aide said on Tuesday that if the United States were to impose sanctions on Russia over Ukraine, Moscow might be forced to drop the dollar as a reserve currency and refuse to pay off any loans to U.S. banks. Catch that? Glazyev is literally threatening to put his own companies into default. That's the opposite of a threat. AFP has more: "We would find a way not just to reduce our dependency on the United States to zero but to emerge from those sanctions with great benefits for ourselves," said Kremlin economic aide Sergei Glazyev, noting that Russia could stop using dollars for international transactions. "An attempt to announce sanctions would end in a crash for the financial system of the United States, which would cause the end of the domination of the United States in the global financial system," he added. Again, all you can do is laugh at the notion that Russia has the ability to induce a crash of the US financial system by getting away from the dollar. Sure, if Russia wants, it can conduct transactions in any currency it likes, but that won't stop Russian counterparties from then exchanging whatever currencies they trade in for the dollar.  Meanwhile, perhaps Glazyev needs a reminder of the declining state of the Russian economy (even before the latest turmoil). Here's Matthew Klein: Real gross domestic product growth has already slowed from 5.1 percent in 2011 to just over 1 percent in 2013. Car sales fell by 5.5 percent in 2013, despite the Russian government's introduction of subsidized auto loans. If that weren't bad enough, European demand for natural gas -- about30 percent of which comes from Russia -- has been steadily falling since 2010. Additional supply could come on line in the coming years from the U.S. and Israel at the same time as Russia expands its own production capacity. The net effect could be a glut that would lower prices and further reduce Russia's access to hard currency. Meanwhile, world oil prices have been flat for years, while Russian production costs have rapidly increased. Some analysts think Putin's recent adventurism in Ukraine has been an attempt to distract his domestic constituents from these unpleasant economic prospects. Glazyev probably thinks it sounds good domestically to make these threats and to imagine that they're of any significance. For everyone else they're just an amusement. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mikhail Klimentyev/RIA Novosti/KremlinYesterday markets tanked everywhere. Today they're rallying everywhere. The most likely story: News that Russia has ordered troops bordering Ukraine to halt their exercises and return to base. This doesn't apply to the troops occupying Crimea, but it is being taken as a hint that things are cooling a little bit. Russian stocks, which got annihilated yesterday, are up 4%. The ruble is rising. Germany is up 1%. Italy is up 1.5%. S&amp;P futures are up 0.75%. Kit Juckes of SocGen characterizes the day thusly: Good morning. Tensions in the Ukraine and Crimea have (temporarily) been eased. Russian troops have finished their ‘military exercise' and financial market tension is melting away. And no, of course it's not ‘all over'. The economic fallout, notably in Russia, will be significant and building political stability in the Ukraine remains a huge challenge. But financial markets are short-sighted animals and everything is calmer. Even the (very) overvalued Rouble is stronger today. And so, risk is a lot less ‘off' than it was, EMFX is rallying across the broad, equity markets are up, Bund yields are higher, etc. In G10 FX, this means that USD/JPY has bounced back from 101, EUR/USD is edging higher again, and volatility is fading. with US employment data t the end of the week and ECB/MPC still to come, today' is an in-between sort of a day, ideally suited to getting home in time to eat pancakes with the children.... FREE AppDownload
