REUTERS/Joe SkipperDoctors confer in the neonatal intensive care unit of the Holtz Children's Hospital at Jackson Memorial Hospital in Miami September 30, 2013.FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Healthcare Leads Social Issues The Wealthy Would Invest In (US Trust) When it comes to social issues that high net worth individuals want to invest in, healthcare takes the lead, according to the U.S Trust 2014 Insights on Wealth and Worth report. Environmental protection and disease prevention rounded off the top three most important values when it comes to investing. US Trust Volatility Is The One Cheap Asset Class Left Out There (BlackRock Blog) The Federal Reserve's accommodative monetary policy has helped make nearly every asset class look expensive, writes Russ Koesterich at BlackRock Blog. "However, there is one asset class that still looks cheap: volatility." "BlackRock and other market watchers have increasingly taken the view in recent years that volatility is an asset class, accessible through funds that track volatility indices and other strategies, that can potentially help reduce portfolio risk and increase returns). "…The bottom line for investors is that in a world of few bargains, volatility does appear to be the one relatively cheap asset classes. And while a continuation of zero interest rates and cash-flush companies will most likely keep volatility below its long-term average for the foreseeable future, it will take a lot of good luck to keep volatility as low as it currently is. This suggests that investors looking to potentially help protect portfolio performance if market volatility suddenly rises in the case of an unexpected correction may want to consider buying volatility." The Pessimism About China Has Created Some Great Bargains (Morningstar)  Justin Leverenz, portfolio manager of Oppenheimer Developing Markets, told Morningstar that he's seeing some of the best emerging market bargains in China. "What we've seen, of course, is that China has been this unbelievable growth story for the last decade, but equities have been probably the worst major bourse in the world," Leverenz said. "And selectively, we're now starting to see some opportunities emerge alongside this because the pessimism is far too great, and there are some really extraordinary companies, which is really what we're focused on." "The second issue in terms of China is opportunities for extraordinary global businesses that have a large part of their franchise in China. …Actually there are more recent concerns about anti-austerity measures which have taken away part of the gifting market in that segment. But these are incredibly durable businesses with relatively low penetration. And I think one of the great themes in the world is not the emerging-markets middle class, but the Chinese middle class, and part of that's associated with tourism and increased leisure and spending." Morgan Stanley Advisors Will Soon Be Allowed To Tweet (The Wall Street Journal)  Over 16,000 financial advisors at Morgan Stanley will soon be free to tweet, reports Corrie Driebusch at the Wall Street Journal. Until now only 1,300 advisors were approved to use Twitter. Advisors now need to attend an online training course and have over 15 followers to be able to tweet, but they still need to have their tweets approved by the firm. "That likely will keep advisers out of the quick-moving conversations that often take place on the social media platform," writes Driebusch. Regulatory requirements have made it tricky for firms to grow the social media presence. Treasury And IRS Allow Longevity Annuities In 401(k) And IRA Markets (Treasury Department)  The U.S. Department of Treasury and the Internal Revenue Service announced regulations that make it possible for longevity annuities to be added to 401(k) and IRA markets. "A longevity annuity is an income stream – a type of 'deferred income annuity' – that begins at an advanced age and continues throughout the individual’s life.  This can provide a cost-effective solution for retirees willing to use part of their savings to protect against outliving the rest of their assets, and can also help them avoid overcompensating by unnecessarily limiting their spending in retirement." "All Americans deserve security in their later years and need effective tools to make the most of their hard-earned savings," J. Mark Iwry, senior advisor to the Secretary of the Treasury and Deputy Assistant Secretary for Retirement and Health Policy said in a press release.  "As boomers approach retirement and life expectancies increase, longevity income annuities can be an important option to help Americans plan for retirement and ensure they have a regular stream of income for as long as they live." FREE AppDownload
(Reuters) - Dov Charney, ousted as American Apparel Inc's APP.A chairman and chief executive two weeks ago, said he has increased his stake in the apparel retailer to 43 percent, as he fights to regain control of the company he founded. Charney, fired for alleged misuse of corporate funds and his role in disseminating nude photos of an ex-employee, also called for a special meeting of stockholders on Sept. 25. (http://1.usa.gov/VBYyX3) The former CEO and founder, already the biggest shareholder in American Apparel with a previously reported 27.2 percent stake, said he increased his holding last week. The additional shares could enable Charney to gain control of the company if he won the support of shareholders holding 7 percent of the stock. After Charney's statement, American Apparel shares dropped 3.3 percent to 87 cents. The stock closed at 69 cents on June 19, the day Charney was ousted. Charney said last month he wanted to shake up American Apparel's management and board. The company said it did not wish to engage in discussions with Charney. The 45-year-old said on Tuesday he would seek to fix the number of directors on the board at 15, adding members identified by him. Charney's lawyer had threatened legal action in a letter sent to American Apparel should he not regain his executive positions. Montreal-born Charney said he owned 74.56 million shares in American Apparel as of last Friday, including 27.35 million acquired for him by hedge fund investor Standard General in a loan arrangement. (http://bit.ly/1sTXgVT) American Apparel last Saturday adopted a one-year poison pill after Charney said he would fight to regain influence over the company. The poison pill was put in place by a special committee of the board, which said it would limit the ability of any shareholder "to seize control of the company without appropriately compensating all American Apparel stockholders." The plan, designed to flood the market with inexpensive shares to impede a takeover, would go into effect if any shareholder accumulates 15 percent or more of the stock. If a shareholder already owns 15 percent or more of the retailer's stock, as Charney does, it would go into effect if that shareholder acquired 1 percent more. American Apparel and Charney were not immediately available for a comment.  (Reporting by Shailaja Sharma in Bangalore; Editing by Joyjeet Das and Andrew Hay) FREE AppDownload
Mario Tama/Getty Images Five years ago Sunday, Bernie Madoff was sentenced to 150 years in prison for running the biggest fraudulent scheme in U.S. history. Even now, only a few of his victims have since regained all of their losses. A well-respected financier, Madoff convinced thousands of investors to hand over their savings, falsely promising consistent profits in return. He was caught in December 2008 and charged with 11 counts of fraud, money laundering, perjury, and theft. Here's how Madoff conned his investors out of $65 billion and went undetected for decades:WikipediaCharles Ponzi, the original Ponzi schemer Madoff used a so-called Ponzi scheme, which lures investors in by guaranteeing unusually high returns. The name originated with Charles Ponzi, who promised 50% returns on investments in only 90 days. Ponzi schemes are run by a central operator, who uses the money from new, incoming investors to pay off the promised returns to older ones. This makes the operation seem profitable and legitimate, even though no actual profit is being made. Meanwhile, the person behind the scheme pockets the extra money or uses it to expand the operation. To avoid having too many investors reclaim their "profits," Ponzi schemes encourage them to stay in the game and earn even more money. The "investing strategies" used are vague and/or secretive, which schemers claim is to protect their business. Then all they need to do is tell investors how much they are making periodically, without actually providing any real returns. Ponzi schemes aren't usually very sustainable. The setup eventually falls apart after: (1) The operator takes the remaining investment money and runs. (2) New investors become harder to find, meaning the flow of cash dies out. (3) Too many current investors begin to pull out and request their returns.  In Madoff's case, things began to deteriorate after clients requested a total of $7 billion back in returns. Unfortunately for Madoff, he only had $200 million to $300 million left to give. Another reason Madoff managed to fly under the radar for so long (despite multiple reports to the SEC about suspicions of a Ponzi scheme), is because Madoff was a well-versed and active member of the financial industry. He started his own market maker firm in 1960 and helped launch the Nasdaq stock market. He sat on the board of National Association of Securities Dealers and advised the Securities and Exchange Commission on trading securities. It was easy to believe this 70-year-old industry veteran knew exactly what he was doing. Madoff really only made off with $20 billion, even though on paper he cheated clients out of $65 billion, according to CNNMoney. That's hardly any consolation for his thousands of investors, the full list of whom can be found with WSJ here. The 150-year sentence, more symbolic than literal, was followed by other convictions related to Madoff's scheme. In March this year, five of Madoff's employees were found guilty for their part in the Ponzi scheme. Most recently, Madoff's accountant and lawyer is also facing up to 30 years in prison for his role. There are several other notable Ponzi schemes in history, including Allen Stanford's which stole $8 billion and Tom Petters' that cheated investors out of $3.7 billion. But as far as scale goes, Madoff wins by a landslide. FREE AppDownload
Reuters PhotographerMost countries will face labor shortages by 2030, according to a new report from the Boston Consulting Group. BCG looked at 25 major economies around the world and found that by 2020 many countries will have a surplus, while by 2030 this will turn into a "massive shortfall." To understand what the shortfall means for the global economy, the authors of the report multiplied the labor gap figure for each country by labor productivity to get the "dollar value of GDP not created." "In the 20-year productivity scenario, we calculated $10 trillion of lost GDP," according to the report — which is about 10% of global GDP according to 2013 figures. Three countries in particular stand out: Brazil's labor supply is projected to increase at 1.26% annual growth rate between 2012-2020 and 0.5% between 2020-2030. Yet. it is projected to have one of the biggest shortfalls. "Brazil will have a shortage of up to 8.5 million workers in 2020; by 2030, that figure could increase nearly fivefold to 40.9 million people." China is slated to have a labor surplus of 55.2 - 75.3 million workers in 2020, but that "could reverse sharply, turning into a shortage of up to 24.5 million people by 2030." Between 2012-2020 housing is expected to rise at 0.05% annual growth rate, and contract 0.32% annually from 2020 to 2030. Germany's labor supply will actually shrink from 43 million now to 37 million in 2030. It's labor supply is projected to contract at a 0.4% annually between 2012-2020 and contract 1.2% annually between 2020 and 2030. BCG
 REUTERS/Larry DowningJPMorgan CEO Jamie Dimon has curable throat cancer, CNBC first reported. "The cancer is confined to the original site and the adjacent lymph nodes on the right side of my neck. Importantly, there is no evidence of cancer elsewhere in my body," Dimon said in a note to JPMorgan investors and employees. "The good news is that the prognosis from my doctors is excellent, the cancer was caught quickly, and my condition is curable," he said. Dimon will need eight weeks of radiation and chemotherapy at Memorial Sloan Kettering in New York City. While Dimon will have to limit travel during this time, he expects to be actively involved in the business. Here's the press release:  Today JPMorgan Chase Chairman and CEO Jamie Dimon sent the following message to employees and shareholders: Message from Jamie Dimon to all colleagues and shareholders Subject line: Sharing some personal news Dear Colleagues and Shareholders - I wanted to let you know that I have just been diagnosed with throat cancer. The good news is that the prognosis from my doctors is excellent, the cancer was caught quickly, and my condition is curable. Following thorough tests that included a CAT scan, PET scan and a biopsy, the cancer is confined to the original site and the adjacent lymph nodes on the right side of my neck. Importantly, there is no evidence of cancer elsewhere in my body. My evaluation and treatment plan are still being finalized, but at this time it appears I will begin radiation and chemotherapy treatment shortly at Memorial Sloan Kettering Hospital, which should take approximately eight weeks. While the treatment will curtail my travel during this period, I have been advised that I will be able to continue to be actively involved in our business, and we will continue to run the company as normal. Our Board has been fully briefed and is totally supportive. As you all know, we have outstanding leaders across our businesses and functions – the best team I’ve ever had the privilege of working with – so our company will move forward together with confidence as we continue to deliver first-class results for our customers, communities and shareholders. I feel very good now and will let all of you know if my health situation changes. I appreciate your support and want to thank our employees for the amazing work they do day-in and day-out. I’m very proud to be part of this company and honored to be working with such an exceptional group of people. Jamie JPMorgan Chase JPMorgan's shares were down 0.68% after hours. FREE AppDownload
Justin Sullivan / GettyOne person was killed and eight were injured following a chemical spill and explosion at a GM metal stamping plant in Marion, Indiana Tuesday afternoon, Fox59 reports. Tanks containing chlorine dioxide exploded in the northeast corner of the building — a stamping facility — and it was soon evacuated.  The explosion killed a 48-year-old man and sent five others to the emergency room with non-life threatening injuries.  Three others refused treatment on the scene. Witnesses told FOX59 they heard an explosion and saw smoke coming from the building. The plant employs more than 1,600 people in multiple shifts. It opened in 1956, according to GM. Earlier today, GM reported sales of 1%, topping expectations for a decline of 6%. Shares closed up 3.5% Tuesday. FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesProtesters fill in a street during a march at an annual protest in downtown Hong Kong Tuesday, July 1, 2014.Last fall, I described what I saw as an “accumulating risk of crisis” in China. Recent developments in two parts of the country only reinforce my sense that the Communist Party of China (CPC) is entering a period during which it will find it increasingly hard to sustain its monopoly on state authority. The first part of the country drawing fresh attention is Hong Kong, where pro-democracy activists have mobilized a new nonviolent challenge to the Party’s authority in spite of the center’s pointed efforts to discourage them. Organizing under the Occupy Central label, these activists recently held an unofficial referendum that drew nearly 800,000 voters who overwhelmingly endorsed proposals that would allow the public to nominate candidates for elections in 2017 — an idea that Beijing has repeatedly and unequivocally rejected. Today, on 1 July, tens of thousands of people marched into the city’s center to press those same demands. The 1 July rally looks set to be one of the island’s largest protests in years, and it comes only weeks after Beijing issued a white paper affirming its “comprehensive jurisdiction” over Hong Kong. Although the official line since the 1997 handover has been “one country, two systems,” the expectation has generally been that national leaders would only tolerate differences that didn’t directly challenge their authority, and the new white paper made that implicit policy a bit clearer. Apparently, though, many Hong Kong residents aren’t willing to leave that assertion unchallenged, and the resulting conflict is almost certain to persist into and beyond those 2017 elections, assuming Beijing doesn’t concede the point before then. The second restive area is Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region, where Uyghurs have agitated for greater autonomy or outright independence since the area’s incorporation into China in 1949. Over the past year or so, the pace of this conflict has intensified again. The Chinese government describes this conflict as a fight against terrorism, and some of the recent attacks — see here and here, for example — have targeted and killed large numbers of civilians. As Assaf Moghadam argues in a recent blog post, however, the line between terrorism and insurgency is almost always blurry in practice. Terrorism and insurgency — and, for that matter, campaigns of nonviolent resistance — are all tactical variations on the theme of rebellion. In Xinjiang, we see evidence of a wider insurgency in recent attacks on police stations and security checkpoints, symbols of the “occupying power” and certainly not civilian targets. Some Uyghurs have also engaged in nonviolent protests, although when they have, the police have responded harshly. In any case, the tactical variation and increased pace and intensity of the clashes leads me to believe that this conflict should now be described as a separatist rebellion, and that this rebellion now poses a significant challenge to the Communist Party. Uyghurs certainly aren’t going to storm the capital, and they are highly unlikely to win sovereignty or independence for Xinjiang as long as the CPC still rules. Nevertheless, the expanding rebellion is taxing the center, and it threatens to make Party leaders look less competent than they would like. Neither of these conflicts is new, and the Party has weathered flare-ups in both regions before. What is new is their concurrence with each other and with a number of other serious political and economic challenges. As the conflicts in Xinjiang and Hong Kong intensify, China’s real-estate market finally appears to be cooling, with potentially significant effects on the country’s economy, and pollution remains a national crisis that continues to stir sporadic unrest among otherwise “ordinary” citizens. And, of course, Party leaders are simultaneously pursuing an anti-corruption campaign that is hitting higher and higher targets. This campaign is ostensibly intended to bolster the economy and to address popular frustration over abuses of power, but like any purge, it also risks generating fresh enemies. For reasons Barbara Geddes helps to illuminate (here), consolidated single-party authoritarian regimes like China’s tend to be quite resilient. They persist because they usually do a good job suppressing domestic opponents and co-opting would-be rivals within the ruling party. Single-party regimes are better than others at co-opting internal rivals because, under all but exceptional circumstances, regime survival reliably generates better payoffs for all factions than the alternatives. Eventually, though, even single-party regimes break down, and when they do, it’s usually in the face of an economic crisis that simultaneously stirs popular frustration and weakens incentives for elites to remain loyal (on this point, see Haggard and Kaufman, too). Exactly how these regimes come undone is a matter of local circumstance and historical accident, but generally speaking, the likelihood increases as popular agitation swells and the array of potential elite defectors widens. China’s slowing growth rate and snowballing financial troubles indicate that the risk of an economic crisis is still increasing. At the same time, the crises in Hong Kong, Xinjiang, and the many cities and towns where citizens are repeatedly protesting against pollution and corruption suggest that insiders who choose to defect would have plenty of potential allies to choose from. As I’ve said before, I don’t believe that the CPC regime is on the brink of collapse, but I would be surprised to see it survive in its current form — with no legal opposition and direct elections in rural villages only — to and through the Party’s next National Congress, due in in 2017. FREE AppDownload
A single bidder took home each of the 10 blocks totaling nearly 30,000 Bitcoins the government auctioned off Friday. The U.S. Marshals Bitcoin auction resulted in 45 registered bidders and 63 bids received. Prices fell sharply Tuesday afternoon, to as low as $640. They'd reached a high of $654 earlier in the day.  Coindesk Last Friday, the day of the bidding, prices were around $580. The U.S. Marshals said they could not comment on the winning bid amount, nor the bidders' origin. SecondMarket and Pantera, two of the largest players in the Bitcoin world, both said they were outbid.    FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Sergio Moraes A U.S. fan salutes before for the 2014 World Cup round of 16 game between U.S. and Belgium at the Fonte Nova arena in Salvador July 1, 2014.The Dow and S&amp;P 500 each made new record closing highs as U.S. auto sales in June accelerated to an annualized pace of 16.9 million vehicles. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories of the day: 1) U.S. auto sales hit an annualized pace of 16.9 million in June, better than the 16.4 million that was expected by analysts. Some of the notable monthly reports included GM, which reported sales that gained 1% against expectations for a 6.3% decline. GM's sales report also comes on the heels of a more than 8 million vehicle recall announced yesterday, and late afternoon reports of an explosion at an Indiana plant. Chrysler sales grew 9.2% in June, better than the 5.9% increase that was expected, while luxury brand sales also surged: Mercedes-Benz sales rose 8.2%, Audi sales rose 23.1%, and Porsche sales rose 11%. BI's Joe Weisenthal stressed earlier today that the auto report would be a huge barometer for the U.S. economy, and following the better than expected auto sales report, it appears the economy just passed a huge test.  2) The Institute for Supply Management's latest June manufacturing report came in at 55.3, below expectations for 55.9. The report was also slightly worse than 55.4 reading reported in May. Following the report, Pantheon Macro's Ian Shepherdson said, "This is a mildly disappointing at the headline, but the details are solid. The new orders index rose 2.0 points to a very high 58.9, boosted by favorable seasonals... Over the tone of the report is pretty solid, with respondents commenting that business is "strong," "picking up," and "slightly more favorable than last year." Following the report, Capital Economics said the report points to U.S. GDP growth of 3% in the second quarter. 3) Markit's final PMI report for June came in at 57.3, an increase from May's 56.4 reading. The final index was a bit below the preliminary estimate of 57.5. Markit's Chris Williamson said of the report, "Manufacturing may account for only 13% of US GDP, but the sheer pace at which the sector is growing means it will have provided a major boost to the economy in the second quarter. Importantly, factory activity remains an important bellwether for the performance of the rest of the economy. We therefore expect GDP to rise at annualized rate in excess of 3%, more than reversing the contraction seen in the first quarter." 4) Construction spending rose just 0.1% in May, below the 0.5% that had been expected by economists. The growth rate for April, however, was revised up to 0.8% from 0.2%. Following the report, Pantheon Macro's Ian Shepherdson said, "In one line: Housing finally falters; state and local government rebounding strongly," adding that, "The details show new housing construction, ex-home improvement, fell 1.2% in May, the first outright decline since Sept '11. New housing construction has been running ahead of the pace implied by new home sales so we have been waiting for this decline for some time." 5) Wearable camera company GoPro had the fourth straight huge day since its initial public offering last Thursday, gaining more than 16%. Shares of GoPro were trading above $48 for some of the session, more than double the $24 mark they priced at last Wednesday.  6) In corporate news, Hormel last night announced the acquisition of CytoSport Holdings, which makes Muscle Milk-brand products, for $450 million. CytoSport's 2014 sales are expected to total $370 million. In a statement, Hormel CEO Jeffrey Ettinger said, "The acquisition of CytoSport expands our offerings of portable, immediate, protein-rich goods, and broadens our appeal with younger consumers." 7) The U.S. men's soccer team was scheduled to take on Belgium in a round of 16 match at the World Cup, set to kick off at 4:00 pm EST.  Don't Miss: Epic Demographic Chart Shows What's Happening to the Populations of the U.S., China, and Japan » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonLayoffs are coming Goldman Sachs. Here's Fox Business News' Julie VeHage and Charlie Gasparino: Executives at the biggest U.S. investment bank have now indicated to Wall Street analysts that they could make significant cuts in their fixed-income trading staff amid a sharp slowdown in business conditions. The reporters write that details will come when the bank reports its second quarter financial results on July 15. Layoffs in this department might not come as a surprise. During a presentation in May, Goldman Sachs president Gary Cohn warned that trading volumes across the firm's divisions were plummeting. "As we consider headwinds, volumes in a number of fixed income markets have been under significant pressure in 2014: FX volumes are down 45% versus 2013, mortgage-backed securities volumes are down over 20%, and corporate bond volumes are down almost 15%," he said. "Naturally, we’ve been hearing a number of questions about the driver of these declines, including: macro factors, like fiscal or monetary policy, regulation, or the low-growth global economy," he continued. "We believe all play a role, but in our day-to-day business, the most significant factors are economic in nature." Cohn also blamed the unusually low volatility in the markets, articulating that low volatility "discourages hedging and delays opportunistic investing." Goldman Sachs FREE AppDownload
We learned a lot of things from New York Magazine's interview with Lee Abbamonte, the city's most lavish bachelor party planner. For example, Soviet-era tank riding is really desirable, and strippers are "pretty cliché" among the wealthy bachelors he calls clients. Abbamonte, a 35-year-old self-described "global adventurer," plans $10,000+ per person bachelor parties, mostly for Wall Street guys or very private celebrities. The travel expert (he was the youngest American to visit every country at 32) started planning the parties in 2008 after getting requests from strangers after blogging about his own adventures.  In his interview with New York's The Cut, he shared that Kiev, of all places, is a top city to have an over-the-top bachelor party due to its late Eastern European nights (ending around 7 a.m.), cheap liquor ($20 bottles), and G.I. Joe-esque adventures like driving tanks and shooting things. At Abbamonte's parties, bachelor party standbys like steak and strippers are a bore. He says he veers toward things with more "shock value," like zip lining, ATV riding, and bungee jumping.  But that doesn't mean women aren't involved. He notes the importance of "hot tour guides," and extols Krakow for its oil-wrestling girls.  The craziest party he ever planned took place in Las Vegas, and cost more than $20,000 per person. Activities included a helicopter tour of the Grand Canyon, racing non-street-legal Ferraris at 180 mph, shooting machine guns in the Mojave desert, BASE jumping 829 feet from the Stratosphere Hotel, and flying F-16 fighter jets. FREE AppDownload
Calculated Risk Automakers have announced their monthly motor vehicle sales for June, and they've come in VERY strong. Analysts had expected that the industry would sell cars at a 16.4 million annualized rate in the month. That would have been a slight dip from the month before. Part of the reason a dip was expected was that May sales saw a huge uptick, and part of that was attributed to pent-up demand from the bad weather in the first few months of the year. But instead, sales came in at 16.9 million according to Wards Auto, which takes the car-maker sales and then estimates a total industry run rate. This means the U.S. economy just cleared a huge test. It was very plausible that things would slow down significantly in June, as the post-winter May spurt wore off. That didn't happen. Instead the strength is actually accelerating. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidPeople look at a 2015 Ford Mustang GT at the Jacob Javits Convention Center during the New York International Auto Show in New York April 17, 2014. Vehicle sales hit an annualized rate of 16.98 million units in June, reports Wards Auto's John Sousanis. Bloomberg is reporting a pace of 16.92 million. Both numbers were much stronger than analysts' expectations for sales to slip to 16.38 million, down from 16.7 million in May. "The report signals that consumers are willing to make big-ticket purchases, and should ease fears generated by the sluggish tone of recent consumer spending data," said Barclays' Dean Maki. General Motors saw its U.S. auto sales rise 1% in June, despite what seemed to be an endless stream of negative headlines regarding product recalls. Analysts' had been forecasting a 6.3% drop in GM sales. “June was the third very strong month in a row for GM, with every brand up on a selling-day adjusted basis,” said GM VP Kurt McNeil. “In fact, the first half of the year was our best retail sales performance since 2008, driven by an outstanding second quarter.” This follows better-than-expected results from the rest of the Detroit 3. Chysler saw its June U.S. auto sales jump 9.2%, beating expectations for a 5.9% gain. This is the company's 51st straight month of growth. Ford sales fell 5.8%. However, this wasn't as bad as the 6.3% drop expected. Throughout the day, the world's big auto makers will be announcing their June sales results. Click Here For Updates » Here's our tally: FREE AppDownload
A lot of great things come from Canada, like William Shatner and Shreddies. Find out what else Canada has to offer.  Produced by Justin Gmoser Follow BI Video: On Facebook
foursquareSoon, 15 year-old uptown Wall Street hang Rothmann's Steakhouse will be no more. Celebrity chef Charlie Palmer is taking over the East 54th Street restaurant and turning it into his third Charlie Palmer Steak location, according the New York Post. For a lot of people who've worked in finance for years, Rothmann's was a place where you could grab decently priced food and drinks and see a bunch of people you knew. In other words, there are some sad people on The Street today. One of those people is Jason DeSena Trennert, the Chief Investment Strategist at Strategas Research Partners LLC. He sent us his remarks on Rothmann's as his way of pouring one out for a solid establishment. Jason DeSena TrennertJason DeSena Trennert, Strategas Research Partners LLC.From Trennert: Among the greatest gifts bestowed upon me by family and my faith has been a constant reminder to count my blessings. It may seem morally incongruous to count among them the existence of a variety of saloons through the years that allowed me to enter, unaccompanied, and always find friends. In Washington it was The Tombs. In my early years on Wall Street it was Harry’s and Suspenders and O’Henry’s. But for the past fifteen years it has been a wonderful steakhouse with a great bar named Rothmann’s on 54th. Those familiar with these pages may be familiar with the name. In many ways a good portion of the pathos of Wall Street and my insights and sins and laughs occurred within its four walls. It was a favorite among the Jefferies and ISI crowds and was almost always a lot of fun. Sadly, once the lights dimmed last Friday, it was all over – the rumor being that its rent was raised to an impossibly high $100,000 a month. I’ll miss Michael and Artie and Pat but I’ve lived in this town long enough not to brood over nostalgic feelings of loss and injury. Those guys will move on and inevitably there will be another restaurant or barroom that will take its place, albeit with more pretentious and expensive drinks and appetizers. Still, it will likely be a reminder that Wall Street will always be a community of sorts, a place where the media’s clichés about “investment bankers” will yield to the reality of flesh-and-blood human beings who worry about making mortgage and tuition payments and who commute to work. I will miss it. If you've got a Rothmann's story, leave it in the comments. FREE AppDownload
Scott Olson/GettyIn a letter Tuesday, Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx warned the Obama administration will begin delaying reimbursements to states for infrastructure projects on Aug. 1 if Congress cannot come up with a solution to replenish the diminishing Highway Trust Fund. This move could create problems for highway and road construction profits at the height of the summer travel season.  Foxx's letter, which was directed to state transportation officials, said checks to states will only be sent twice a month and will only be partial reimbursements. States typically receive "same day" reimbursements for many construction projects. The Department of Transportation is undertaking the new procedures to keep a positive balance in the Highway Trust Fund, in which the department expects a shortfall beginning sometime in August. The fund is financed through gasoline taxes, which have not been raised in decades and currently provide inadequate revenue. Both parties in Congress disagree on how to solve the problem. In his letter, Foxx said states will experience cuts in federal funding until Congress finds a long-term solution to the crisis. "The Department will continue to take every possible measure to fully reimburse your State for as long as we can.  However, as we approach insolvency, the Department will be forced to limit payments to manage the reduced levels of cash available in the Trust Fund," Foxx wrote in the letter. "This means, among other things, that the Federal Highway Administration will no longer make 'same-day' payments to reimburse States." The Department of Transportation said, on average, states should expect a 28% cut in federal funds for construction projects. This dire warning comes as President Barack Obama is set to ramp up pressure on Congress to find a solution to the shortfall. Obama is set to speak about the issue Tuesday on the Georgetown waterfront with the Key Bridge in the background. The bridge connects Rosslyn, Virginia, with the Georgetown neighborhood of Washington. The Highway Trust Fund is a transportation and infrastructure fund financed by gasoline taxes. But the government now spends more money on those projects than it collects from the gas tax, which has not been raised in over 20 years.  Republicans and Democrats in Congress are still divided on both a short-term solution to finance projects through the rest of the year and a long-term fix for the shortfall. Two senators introduced a bipartisan plan to incrementally raise the 18.4 cents-per-gallon gas tax, but there is little political inclination to make such a move in an election year. Sen. Patty Murray (D-Washington), who has taken the lead on the issue among Democratic leadership, has said Congress should get rid of "wasteful" tax loopholes to offset more funding for the Highway Trust Fund. House Republicans rallied around a proposal to offset the fund's expenditures by scaling back U.S. Postal Service deliveries on Saturdays, but that proposal has been largely abandoned."The clock is winding down for Congress to avoid lurching toward another unnecessary crisis – this time with a construction shutdown," Murray said in a statement on Tuesday. "States and businesses need certainty to create jobs and grow local economies, and as today’s announcement shows, failing to solve the shortfall would mean the exact opposite. Workers and businesses shouldn’t have to pay the price for another manufactured crisis out of Washington, D.C. – so I hope Republicans find a way to push the Tea Party aside and avoid this crisis." Here's a chart from the Department of Transportation projecting how the fund will run dry near the end of August:  Department of Transportation FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Sergio Moraes A U.S. fan salutes before for the 2014 World Cup round of 16 game between U.S. and Belgium at the Fonte Nova arena in Salvador July 1, 2014.The Dow and S&amp;P 500 each made new record closing highs as U.S. auto sales in June accelerated to an annualized pace of 16.9 million vehicles. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories of the day: 1) U.S. auto sales hit an annualized pace of 16.9 million in June, better than the 16.4 million that was expected by analysts. Some of the notable monthly reports included GM, which reported sales that gained 1% against expectations for a 6.3% decline. GM's sales report also comes on the heels of a more than 8 million vehicle recall announced yesterday, and late afternoon reports of an explosion at an Indiana plant. Chrysler sales grew 9.2% in June, better than the 5.9% increase that was expected, while luxury brand sales also surged: Mercedes-Benz sales rose 8.2%, Audi sales rose 23.1%, and Porsche sales rose 11%. BI's Joe Weisenthal stressed earlier today that the auto report would be a huge barometer for the U.S. economy, and following the better than expected auto sales report, it appears the economy just passed a huge test.  2) The Institute for Supply Management's latest June manufacturing report came in at 55.3, below expectations for 55.9. The report was also slightly worse than 55.4 reading reported in May. Following the report, Pantheon Macro's Ian Shepherdson said, "This is a mildly disappointing at the headline, but the details are solid. The new orders index rose 2.0 points to a very high 58.9, boosted by favorable seasonals... Over the tone of the report is pretty solid, with respondents commenting that business is "strong," "picking up," and "slightly more favorable than last year." Following the report, Capital Economics said the report points to U.S. GDP growth of 3% in the second quarter. 3) Markit's final PMI report for June came in at 57.3, an increase from May's 56.4 reading. The final index was a bit below the preliminary estimate of 57.5. Markit's Chris Williamson said of the report, "Manufacturing may account for only 13% of US GDP, but the sheer pace at which the sector is growing means it will have provided a major boost to the economy in the second quarter. Importantly, factory activity remains an important bellwether for the performance of the rest of the economy. We therefore expect GDP to rise at annualized rate in excess of 3%, more than reversing the contraction seen in the first quarter." 4) Construction spending rose just 0.1% in May, below the 0.5% that had been expected by economists. The growth rate for April, however, was revised up to 0.8% from 0.2%. Following the report, Pantheon Macro's Ian Shepherdson said, "In one line: Housing finally falters; state and local government rebounding strongly," adding that, "The details show new housing construction, ex-home improvement, fell 1.2% in May, the first outright decline since Sept '11. New housing construction has been running ahead of the pace implied by new home sales so we have been waiting for this decline for some time." 5) Wearable camera company GoPro had the fourth straight huge day since its initial public offering last Thursday, gaining more than 16%. Shares of GoPro were trading above $48 for some of the session, more than double the $24 mark they priced at last Wednesday.  6) In corporate news, Hormel last night announced the acquisition of CytoSport Holdings, which makes Muscle Milk-brand products, for $450 million. CytoSport's 2014 sales are expected to total $370 million. In a statement, Hormel CEO Jeffrey Ettinger said, "The acquisition of CytoSport expands our offerings of portable, immediate, protein-rich goods, and broadens our appeal with younger consumers." 7) The U.S. men's soccer team was scheduled to take on Belgium in a round of 16 match at the World Cup, set to kick off at 4:00 pm EST.  Don't Miss: Epic Demographic Chart Shows What's Happening to the Populations of the U.S., China, and Japan » FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA trader watches his screen just after the opening bell on the floor of the New York Stock ExchangeNEW YORK (Reuters) - The New York Stock Exchange said it will hold a test run of Alibaba Group Holding's &lt;IPO-ALIB.N&gt; highly anticipated market debut, reflecting the securities industry's focus on risk controls after a raft of technical snafus in recent years. NYSE, owned by Intercontinental Exchange Inc &lt;ICE.N&gt;, said in a note to traders on Tuesday it would allow firms to test their trading software ahead of the initial public offering of Alibaba on July 12 for a listing on the New York Stock Exchange. The Chinese e-commerce company's trading debut this summer could be the largest-ever technology IPO in the U.S., possibly eclipsing Facebook Inc's &lt;FB.O&gt; $15 billion share sale in May 2012. Facebook's trading debut on Nasdaq OMX Group's &lt;NDAQ.O&gt; exchange was plagued with software problems as massive volumes of orders came in, setting off a chain of events that market-making firms said cost them a combined $500 million. Nasdaq, which was fined $10 million by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission over the problems, said it would voluntarily compensate firms that had been harmed up to a total of $62 million. NYSE regularly conducts systems testing during the weekends but it was only last October, ahead of Twitter Inc's &lt;TWTR.N&gt; market debut, that it opened up for an IPO simulation requested by member firms, many of which participated in Facebook's IPO. During the Twitter IPO simulation, NYSE was testing mainly for two things: To see if its systems could handle the amount of message traffic that might be generated by the IPO; and to make sure that once the IPO took place any firms that placed orders would promptly receive the reports telling them that their orders had been executed. The Facebook incident was one of a number of high-profile technology-related problems that have roiled markets and weighed on investor confidence in recent years, placing a bigger focus on operational risk by regulators and market participants.   (Reporting by John McCrank; Editing by Bernadette Baum) FREE AppDownload
Ethan Miller/Getty ImagesAny athlete in any sport can tell you that 50% of the game is mental. Poker is no different. In fact, the mental aspect of poker is the most crucial part of the game because you need to know how to handle short term gains and short term losses in order to stay focused until the end.  Bumps in the road will happen. What matters is what you choose to do when you come across the challenging moments. And to be able to make the best choices and to strengthen your poker game, you need to know how to avoid getting stuck in mental pitfalls. 1. Stop thinking in terms of absolute valuesPoker is a game of relative values. That means that you don't need a monster hand to win, you just need a hand that is better than your opponent's. Similarly, even if you have a monster hand, it doesn't mean that you're going to win... Your hand might look better, but your opponent's might do better once the flop comes.Don't believe that? In the 2009 WSOP, Joe Cada's winning hand was two 9's. He beat Darvin Moon who had queen-jack. 2. Don't play every single handNew players sometimes feel like they need to play every single hand. This happens for several reasons, including wanting to be part of the action, not wanting to give away a bad hand, and wanting to impress other players. Unfortunately, you will not do well if you play to impress others because then you are not focusing on the game. Worrying too much about impressing others is a distraction.3. Failing to study your opponentYou can't completely ignore other people. You need to be aware of how your own habits betray what cards you might be holding. You must also be able to analyze other players and their playing styles in order to see what their tells are. If you can't pick up on your opponent's mental mistakes and you can't decipher any of their habits, you should find easier opponents. (Think of it this way: if you can't reach a basketball hoop, don't challenge John Wall to a slam dunk contest.) Understanding how other players think and behave is so critical to the game of poker that some professional poker players have an ex-FBI agent train them in recognizing non-verbal communication.4. Not wanting to "give up"Of course, giving up is bad. But in poker, sometimes a good player needs to recognize when it is the correct decision to fold instead of waiting for a lucky strike. That's just how the game works. A lot of novice players get too caught up in waiting for cards in the flop. For example, a person might have 3 cards that could lead to a flush. Instead of actually considering the pot odds and probabilities, he will cling to the dream of seeing two more cards in the flop that will complete his flush. This might never happen, and by then the player might have unnecessarily wasted a fair amount of money. Not "giving up" has seriously negative consequences because the player is relying on short-term emotions, rather than investing in the long-term of the game.5. Not knowing any mathA huge part of poker is knowing how to correctly size bets and understanding pot odds and implied pot odds. If you can master this, then you will have a better sense for when it is best to fold and when it is best to keep playing. A lot of new players don’t take the time to learn the probabilities. Instead, they play the extremes by betting too much when their cards excite them, and by betting too little when their cards disappoint them. Ideally, a player should not get caught up in these emotions, but should analyze the situation and proceed to make choices that maximize potential winnings and minimize potential losses.  6. Bluffing too much Some people really get into bluffing because it's exciting — and it's incredibly enjoyable to bluff successfully. The downside of this behaviour is that your bluffs no longer become believable after a while. In other words, your playing strategy will be very easy to read for the duration of the game.  7. Cold calling raises Cold calling is when a player calls more than one player's raise at once. Opponent A will raise, then opponent B will re-raise, and then you call. This play indicates that you are either a timid or an undisciplined player — or both. If you do not feel comfortable enough to re-raise after opponent B re-raised, then you should probably fold.  8. Being afraid to make mistakesSome players are too afraid to play until they know "for sure" that their hand will win. If they are uncertain of the round's outcome, they fold. The problem with this strategy is that people who do this assume that other players play the same way. Often times, when a timid player sees someone playing aggressively, he automatically assumes that the aggression is a sign of good cards. And then, he folds, even though the other player might have been bluffing. And finally...9. Using your cards as an excuse This is the most important rule in any poker game. People use “bad cards” as a scapegoat constantly, but it’s not a legitimate excuse. Even the greatest poker players get terrible cards, yet they still end up at the final table. You're not going to win every single round — accept that and move on. The trick is to recognize profitable opportunities in the game. You don't have control over the good or bad cards that you are dealt, but you do have control over making the best of your situation and finding the good opportunities. And that's how you win. FREE AppDownload
WikipediaAlisa Flatow's memorial, By now, everyone's heard that BNP Paribas has agreed to pay an $8.9 billion dollar penalty to state and federal authorities. But there's much more to the story.  Yesterday, the New York Times reported the incredible story of how the BNP investigation is connected to a bus bombing in the Gaza Strip perpetrated by a terrorist group two decades ago.  One of the people killed in that bus bombing happened to be the daughter of Stephen Flatow, a New Jersey resident. Seeking justice in the name of his slain daughter, he accused Iran of funding the terrorist group responsible for the incident. Although Flatow was awarded $250 million in damages by a federal judge, Iran never paid. Consequently, Flatow "sought to collect from the Alavi Foundation, the charity that he claimed was a front for the Iranian government". Flatow's accusations generated some interest at the district attorney's office — partially because one of the analysts working there was a former Israeli soldier "who happened to have responded to the scene of that very same bus bombing". As a result, the prosecutors personally went to investigate a Fifth Avenue building connected with the Alavi Foundation that "was built in the late 1970s by a non-profit tied to the Shah of Iran". Unfortunately, nothing out of the ordinary was found. For a bit, it seemed that the investigation hit a dead end. But all of a sudden, everything changed when the prosecutors visited a Persian rug shop. The shop owner, who had ties to Iran, revealed that the Alavi Foundation was entirely under Iran's control. According to the New York Times article: The evidence against the Alavi Foundation was extensive, former prosecutors say [... and led to] a settlement agreement that forced the Alavi Foundation to forfeit its holdings in the office tower. When the government sells the building, the proceeds will flow to the families and estates of victims of terrorism. With the Alavi Foundation case off its plate, the district attorney’s office turned its focus to Credit Suisse and Lloyds. The prosecutors offered the banks a choice: turn over records related to Iranian banks or face a criminal case. The banks chose to cooperate, producing reams of records that laid bare a scheme to disguise how Bank Melli was funneling money into the United States. To avoid detection, the records showed, Credit Suisse and Lloyds falsified money-transfer paperwork, replacing Bank Melli’s name with their own. Eventually, other foreign banks were also examined. And, on Monday, the BNP case announced "traces to these deals". Additionally, BNP was also "doing business with Sudan at a time that the nation was operating a genocidal regime". To read more about the investigation, click here. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Emmanuel FoudrotGoPro is at it again. Shares of the wearable camera company are up 12%, but well off their best level of the day. GoPro shares are currently trading at about $45. In morning trade, shares of the wearable camera company were up as much as 19% to trade above $48 per share. At that level, GoPro shares had more than doubled since its IPO priced at $24. Today's advance marks the fourth straight day of gains following last Thursday's public debut. GoPro gained more than 13% yesterday, gained more than 14% on Friday, and in its public debut on Thursday closed above $31. At the current stock price, GoPro's market capitalization is nearing $6 billion. 2014 has been a huge year for IPOs, and GoPro's four-day rally after its debut has certainly kept that trend in tact. Here's the crazy chart for GoPro as of  3:00 pm EST. Google Finance FREE AppDownload
In many of America's towns and cities, housing costs are putting a huge burden on residents. Harvard's Joint Center for Housing Studies has a huge report out on the state of the housing market. One of the big things they looked at was housing affordability. Using data from the Census Bureau's American Community Survey, the Harvard researchers were able to find how many people in each metropolitan or micropolitan area in the country faced a significant housing-cost burden, defined by the researchers as paying at least 30% of their income on housing costs. The study includes a really cool set of interactive maps, where for each metro area you can find info on the area's housing situation. One thing that jumps out from the maps is that renters across the country are more likely to experience financial stress from their housing costs than homeowners. Here's Harvard's map showing the percentage of owner-occupied households paying at least 30% of income on housing costs: Harvard Joint Center for Housing Studies And here's the same map for renter-occupied households: Harvard Joint Center for Housing Studies While there are definitely some hotspots for homeowners facing a cost burden, it's clear from looking at these maps that in a large number of America's cities and towns, over half of renters have to spend more than 30% of their incomes on housing costs. Check out the interactive versions of the maps here, and the full study here. FREE AppDownload
Here's some good news to kick off the month: U.S. consumption is starting to look strong. Chain store sales were up 1% week-over-week in the June 28 week. They were up a whopping 4.6% year-over-year, the highest rate since December 2011. This report came in strong for the second straight week. "With the exception of grocery stores, ICSC-Goldman reports strength across all retail categories," according to Econoday. Business Insider/Bloomberg FREE AppDownload
Netflix promotional photo via Seriable"Orange Is The New Black"Netflix's international subscriber base is set to explode. According to a new research report from Heath Terry at Goldman Sachs, Netflix is set to boom internationally as the company adds six new markets this year, and up to 4 new markets annually thereafter. At the end of the first quarter, Netflix had 11.7 million paid international subscribers. By the end of 2017, Goldman sees an opportunity for Netflix to have 62 million international subscribers. Expanding into new international markets will bring Netflix's total potential subscriber base to 207 million, and Goldman thinks Netflix should be able to capture 30% of this audience as HBO currently has about 33% market share in its international markets. Additionally, Goldman sees Netflix's U.S. user base growing to 55 million in 2017 from 46 million at the end of the first quarter. Goldman sees potential for Netflix growing its user base on mobile and other devices, and expects subscriber growth to continue exceeding expectations. From Goldman: "While most estimates of Netflix’s subscriber opportunity focus on broadband households, we believe this will increasingly understate the size of the market as more content is consumed through the growing ecosystem of connected devices and off wired networks. At $8.99, Netflix could increasingly come to be viewed as a high value add-on to a wireless data plan for any number of devices." In its note, Goldman upgraded shares of Netflix to "Buy" from "Neutral" and put a $560 price target on the stock. In morning trade, shares of Netflix were up more than 5% to trade near $464. On Twitter, Risk Reversal's Dan Nathan said that the upgrade, "feels like capitulation." Nathan notes that Goldman has had a Neutral rating on the stock since December 2011. In July 2011, shares of Netflix nearly hit $300 before ending the year at around $70. Since the beginning of 2012, however, Netflix has been a powerhouse, gaining more than 570% over that period. Hard to ignore. FREE AppDownload
APHillary Clinton's family fortune has come under increasing scrutiny in recent weeks following a series of comments she made about her finances while on tour promoting her new book, "Hard Choices." But just how much has Clinton earned in the years since her husband, former President Bill Clinton, left the White House? Financial disclosures filed by Clinton when she served as New York's junior senator and as secretary of state in the Obama administration show her family earned more than $163 million from 2001 until 2012. The disclosures also detailed the taxes paid by the Clintons and how much they gave to charity during those years.  During Clinton's years in the Senate the disclosures, which were published by OpenSecrets.org, included full tax returns filed by her and her husband. These returns detailed the Clintons' total income, charitable gifts they made, and their total taxes paid from 2001 through 2007. For those seven years, the Clintons earned total income of $108,817,646, the vast majority of which came from Bill Clinton's speaking fees. They paid over $33 million in federal income taxes for an effective tax rate of about 31%. The Clintons also gave more than $10 million to charity from 2001 through 2007, which is about 9% of their total income from this period. After Clinton left the Senate for the State Department, the public information about her finances became less detailed. Clinton's disclosures from 2008 through 2012 only include ranges for the amount her family earned from property and other investments. They also do not include full salary information, taxes, or the amount the Clintons gave to charity in this period. However, they do detail the amount the Clintons earned from speaking fees from 2008 to 2012, which was over $53 million. Though Clinton's financial disclosures from her years at the State Department do not identify her exact salary, this information is publicly available. As secretary of state, she earned a total of $785,700 in salary.  Combining Clinton's salary at the State Department, her family's total income from her 2001 through 2007 tax returns, and the speaking fees they collected from 2008 until 2012, the Clintons earned a total of about $163 million during the first 12 years after Bill Clinton left the White House. This figure is just a minimum as it only includes the speaking fees the Clintons earned from 2008 to 2012 and does not reflect other sources of income including property, investments, and book royalties.  Clinton has presumably done quite well since 2012, the last year covered by her public disclosures. She is commanding a reported $200,000 in speaking fees on her media tour for "Hard Choices" and reportedly earned an advance of "significantly more" than $8 million for the book.  Check out the chart below to see the minimum amount we know the Clintons earned for each year from 2001 through 2012. Andy Kiersz (Chart by Andy Kiersz)   FREE AppDownload
Goldman Sachs will pay an $800,000 fine and has returned $1.67 million to investors in order to settle charges that it failed to protect clients from harmful trading in its dark pool, Sigma-X, announced the Financial Regulatory Authority. From the FINRA release: During the eight-day trading period, Goldman Sachs was unaware that it was trading through a protected quotation in these instances. The trade-throughs were caused by market data latencies at SIGMA-X and were undetected in a timely manner. FINRA found that from November 2008 through August 2011, Goldman Sachs failed to establish, maintain, and enforce written policies and procedures that were reasonably designed to prevent trade-throughs of protected quotations in NMS stocks; and failed to regularly surveil to ascertain the effectiveness of its policies and procedures designed to prevent trade-throughs of protected quotations in NMS stocks. This comes after New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman filed civil charges against Barclays bank last week, alleging that it misrepresented the safety of its dark pool exchange. Some investors pulled their money from the bank and Barclays' stock tumbled on the news. Goldman, for its part, has been outspoken about the dangers of  high frequency trading and the dark pools where those traders can live. Earlier this year COO Gary Cohn, a former trader himself, wrote an op-ed in the Wall Street Journal outlining how Wall Street's race for speed can make exchanges vulnerable technologically. He also pointed out that the lack of transparency in this kind of trading created unfairness in the market. From the op-ed: Public market data should be disseminated to all market participants simultaneously. Exchanges currently disseminate prices and transaction data to the SEC-sanctioned distributor for all investors, but exchanges may also send this information directly to private subscribers. While the data leave the exchange simultaneously, the public data are delayed because they go through the intermediary's processing infrastructure. The public aggregator should release information to all market participants at the same time. Removing the possibility of differentiated channels for market data also reduces incentives that favor investment in the speed of one channel over the stability and resiliency of another. Instability creates and compounds market disruptions. Stable and accurate market data is one of the most important elements of market safety; it is the backbone of the market that must weather the most extreme periods. That said, it's important to note that Goldman didn't have the baddest dark pool on the Street. In fact, the word was the bank would be happy to give it up if it meant more transparency. Investors were starting to get worried about high frequency trading, and Goldman's stock trading business in general has been losing market share. As for this $800,000 fine, Goldman will neither admit nor deny guilt upon payment. Expect to see a lot of that as authorities crack down on what's going on in dark pools and try to catch regulation up with technology. This isn't even close to over. FREE AppDownload
Nothing says exceptional like America. And through years of historical precedent nothing saying you love your country by decking yourself out in all assortments of red, white and blue. There is, of course, the option of wearing the colors on different items of clothing (think navy blazer, white shirt and red tie). And then there is the option of wearing threads that were specifically created to remind the rest of the world just how exceptional America is. Which in the unfortunate case you forgot about that small scientific fact, I ask that you take a few minutes to listen to one of the finest speeches in the history of mankind.  Whichever method you favor one thing is for certain, showing your love for America has never, and will never, go out of fashion.  So to get you started on your quest to display your beloved country’s colors here are a few of the better items out there… Although we had a tough loss against Germany, I expect us to topple Belgium.  Oh, and Graham Zusi looks like me, or should I say I look like him? AP Photo Nike – USA World Cup jersey ($89.99) Speaking of Germany…  Rowdy Gentleman – Back To Back World War Champs t-shirt ($28)   Because at some point you may have to don a tie during your celebrations of America and this is the most American of American ties.  High Cotton – Starts &amp; Stripes bow tie ($50)   The pinnacle of croakie-esque exceptionalism.  Tucker Blair – American flag sunglasses strap ($45)   Because you need a belt to match your sunglasses strap, obviously.    Tucker Blair – American flag needlepoint belt ($115)   Because at some point you will be in or near one or more bodies of water.  Preferably while on that heavenly little island…  ACK Surf – ACK Americans board shorts ($45)   Because when your boots hit the ground there should be no confusion what team you’re playing for.  Sperry Top Sider – American Flag Day boat shoe ($95)   Because there is nothing your Jack will taste better out of.  Smathers &amp; Branson – American flag needlepoint flask ($65)   Because you need to remind the rest of the world what big stick diplomacy is all about.  Chubbies – ‘Mericas ($59.50)   Because you need to make everyone jealous of how exceptionally American your sunglasses are. Image Credit: Fine Young Gentleman Oakley – Old Glory Frogskins (I have an extra pair – email for inquiries)   Because you’ll put something on her wrist, not her finger.  Kiel James Patrick – The American Legacy ($38.00)   Because you want the city streets to know that the man wearing the suit loves America.  Indochino – Stars &amp; Stripes suit lining ($429-749)   Because you need something American to carry all of your other America gear in.  Hudson Sutler – Yorktown Weekender Duffel ($120) -JLJ   Note: All images from company websites/product pages linked to unless otherwise noted.  FYGblog received no compensation from any brand featured in exchange for placement on list. Related posts:   FREE AppDownload
Robert Libetti/ Business Insider Manufacturing activity holds steady. The Institute for Supply Management's, or ISM, manufacturing report for June came in at 55.3. Expectations were for a reading of 55.9. This report was also worse than last month, which came in at 55.4. Last month's report, however, was overshadowed by a series of miscues that lead to the headline number being revised three times. Looking at some of the June report's internals, prices paid slipped to 58.0 in June from 60 in May, and order backlog fell to 48.0 from 52.5 in May. New orders increased two points to 58.9 from 56.9 in May, while employment and inventories both were flat. Here's a table from ISM giving a full breakdown of the report's internals. ISM More to come ... FREE AppDownload
Joe Raedle/Getty ImagesConstruction spending climbed by just 0.1% in May, which was below the 0.5% growth rate expected by economists. However, April's growth rate was revised up to 0.8% from 0.2%. May's growth was driven by a 1.0% increase in public construction. "In one line: Housing finally falters; state and local government rebounding strongly," said Pantheon Macroeconomics' Ian Shepherdson. "The details show new housing construction, ex-home improvement, fell 1.2% in May, the first outright decline since Sep 11," he added. "New housing construction has been running ahead of the pace implied by new home sales so we have been waiting for this decline for some time." From the Census: PRIVATE CONSTRUCTIONSpending on private construction was at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $682.8 billion, 0.3 percent (±1.2%)* below the revised April estimate of $684.6 billion. Residential construction was at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $354.8 billion in May, 1.5 percent (±1.3%) below the revised April estimate of $360.1 billion. Nonresidential construction was at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $328.0 billion in May, 1.1 percent (±1.2%)* above the revised April estimate of $324.5 billion. PUBLIC CONSTRUCTIONIn May, the estimated seasonally adjusted annual rate of public construction spending was $273.3 billion, 1.0 percent (±3.0%)* above the revised April estimate of $270.5 billion. Educational construction was at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $62.0 billion, 0.6 percent (±5.1%)* below the revised April estimate of $62.4 billion. Highway construction was at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $82.7 billion, 0.7 percent (±8.1%)* above the revised April estimate of $82.2 billion.   Census FREE AppDownload
REUTERSA trader on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange rubs his temples July 29, 1999 as stocks plunged after economic data showed a steep rise in wage costs and intensified speculation the Federal reserve may again raise interest rates. In late afternoon trading the Dow Jones industrial average was off 216.56 points at 10,755.51.I know a small startup hedge fund that was flat last year versus the S&amp;P 500's 32% total return. He’s out of business, pack up the truck. Nothing he can explain or illustrate means anything to the handful of seeders who let him hold onto some money for a year. Hedge funds have faced quite a conundrum recently. On the one hand, they’re expected to be “non-correlated” to the risk and returns of the broader market. It’s kind of the point of the whole thing, after all. Anyone can simply own the market. But the trouble is, the cumulative annualized growth rate for the S&amp;P 500 over the last three calendar years has been an astonishing 16 percent. That means a million dollars invested in the market on January 1st 2010 and left in through the end of 2013 is now worth almost $2 million. And who the f*** wants to be non-correlated to that? So we see a drift toward market beta happening across the $2.7 trillion hedge fund industry. No one should be surprised. Because the single most powerful, overriding force in finance is neither fear nor greed, it’s career risk. The FT relays the results of a recent study carried out by the alternative asset manager AQR detailing exactly how severe this drift has become… “Investors are getting screwed because they have beta elsewhere and now they are paying 2 and 20 [2 per cent of assets and a 20 per cent performance fee] for it,” said David Kabiller, founding principal of AQR, a $105bn hedge fund house. Data compiled by AQR show the three-year rolling correlation of the HFRI Fund Weighted Composite index, a broad industry measure, with equity markets is at a near-record high of 0.93, comfortably above the highs seen before the financial crisis. On the plus side, increased correlation with the market has been good for hedge fund investors – markets have basically gone straight up, after all. On the minus side, you’ve certainly been paying through the nose for this .93% correlation – if I sold you a Vanguard index fund and then deducted a 2% management fee along with 20% of each year’s gains, would you buy it? No? How about if I sweetened the deal by gating your assets so they couldn’t be touched most of the year, would that do the trick? See what I mean? For the hedge fund manager, being long the markets, generally, has been the money making trade. The trouble is that this hasn’t been a great deal for most investors (whom I assume couldn’t care less as they continue to shovel assets in through their wirehouse brokers at a torrid pace). The bigger trouble is that the positive correlation between the stock market and the hedge fund index is now back at a high not seen since just before the credit crash – and hedge funds did not exactly light it up in the crash because of that heavy exposure; average losses of more than 20% in 2008 were not exactly what the LPs thought they were signing up for. But if you don’t play, can you keep your assets and clients? Maybe for a little while, but each passing month it gets harder. You can stick to your guns and continue to fight – as Seth Klarman is doing with a 50% cash position - or you can simply hang ‘em up like Stanley Druckenmiller. And let’s be honest about the so-called “investors”… Most of them only like the idea of non-correlation, but can’t stand the actual sight of it when the bulls are fornicating on the corner of Wall and Broad. What’s a hedge fund manager to do? Source: Hedge fund correlation risk alarms investors (Financial Times) FREE AppDownload
Markit"Business was booming at US goods producers in June," said Markit's Chris Williamson. "Factory output, order books and payroll numbers rose at some of the fastest rates we’ve seen since the recession, rounding off the best quarter for four years in terms of manufacturing expansion." Markit just published the final results of its manufacturing purchasing managers index (PMI) survey, and the numbers were encouraging. The headline index jumped to 57.3 from 56.4 in May.Although, it's worth noting this was a bit below the preliminary estimated of 57.5. Here are key points via Markit: Markit"Manufacturing may account for only 13% of US GDP, but the sheer pace at which the sector is growing means it will have provided a major boost to the economy in the second quarter," said Williamson. "Importantly, factory activity remains an important bellwether for the performance of the rest of the economy. We therefore expect GDP to rise at annualised rate in excess of 3%, more than reversing the contraction seen in the first quarter. “Export performance, however, remains a real disappointment, and trade will likely act as a drag on the economy again in the second quarter. If worries about tighter policy from the Fed start to dampen domestic demand at the same time as exporters are struggling, growth could slow again in the second half of the year.” FREE AppDownload
AP PhotoPolice say 92,000 pro-democracy protestors have flooded the streets of Hong Kong on the 17th anniversary of the end of colonial rule on the island. In recent years the day has become less a celebration, and more a day to demonstrate against an increasingly anti-democratic, mainland-leaning Hong Kong government. The South China Morning Post is covering it live. Meanwhile, on the mainland, users of Weibo (China's answer to Twitter) are reporting that images and messages documenting what's going down in Hong Kong are quickly being deleted. "One of my colleagues, William Zheng, Chief editor for SCMPChinese.com, our Chinese news site, confirmed that his Weibo account was suspended for no reason," South China Morning Post Financial Editor George Chen  told Business Insider. "Before his account was suspended, he posted a series of Hong Kong protest related articles and photos. Many Weibo users on the mainland said they had no idea of what was happening in Hong Kong today, but they can tell something strange is going on from Weibo because suddenly you see quite a number of popular Hong Kong Weibo users, including some celebrities, suddenly stopped updating. Many think it's because they've been forbidden from posting." Sina, the company that owns Weibo, is listed on the Nasdaq here in the United States. View from above just before the rain hit #july1hk pic.twitter.com/a2Jkx34VEU This year's protestors are also a direct challenge to an increasingly power-hungry Beijing. Last month, officials on the mainland wrote a white paper saying that Hong Kong's political autonomy isn't an "inherent power."  That prompted Occupy Central, a pro-democracy group, to hold a referendum Monday on whether or not Beijing should be allowed to vet Hong Kong political candidates in the island's 2017 election. 800,000 people showed up and voted no. "Mainland authority currently has no direct power to stop public protests in Hong Kong but they can influence the Hong Kong government in many aspects," said Chen. It sounds like most people think many is far too many. Rain hasn't kept people from rallying in what could be one of Hong Kong's biggest protests ever. #july1hk pic.twitter.com/mUkbtkeWi7 FREE AppDownload
Bitcoin is up massively in just the last few days. It seems the government's auction of a large cache of Bitcoins — which were seized from the online marketplace the Silk Road — is proving to be a major boon for Bitcoin, as rumor is the bids have come in massive. Check out the chart, from Bitcoinwisdom. Bitcoinwisdom FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Siphiwe SibekoFutures are higher. The markets are set to open higher on the first trading day of July, the third quarter, and the second half of the year. Dow futures are up 39 points, S&amp;P 500 futures are up 4 points, and Nasdaq futures are up 11 points. Three big pieces of economic data are expected today. June auto sales are set to roll in all day, and Chrysler has kicked off the action with sales that jumped 9.2%, beating expectations for a 5.9% increase. At 10:00 am EST, we get ISM's June manufacturing report, as well as Factory Orders for May.  GoPro shares are also surging in pre-market trading, with the stock set for its fourth straight day of gains after debuting last Thursday.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Charles PlatiauAn employee walks behind the logo of BNP Paribas in a company's building in Issy-les-Moulineaux, near Paris, June 2, 2014. WASHINGTON (Reuters) - BNP Paribas’ guilty plea and agreement to pay nearly $9 billion for violating U.S. sanctions is part of a larger U.S. Justice Department shift in strategy that is expected to snare more major banks and other firms across the financial food chain. Two other major French banks, Credit Agricole and Societe Generale, Germany's Deutsche Bank AG, and Citigroup Inc's Banamex unit in Mexico are among those being investigated for possible money laundering or sanctions violations, according to people familiar with the matter and public disclosures. The Justice Department and other U.S. authorities, including the Manhattan District Attorney, are probing Credit Agricole and Societe Generale for potentially violating U.S. economic sanctions imposed against Iran, Cuba and Sudan, one of the sources said. Credit Agricole and SocGen have disclosed that they are reviewing whether they violated U.S. sanctions. SocGen said in its latest annual report that it is engaged in discussions with the Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control over potential sanctions violations. The two banks could not be immediately reached for comment. Another source said the Justice Department's bank integrity unit is deep into a probe of whether Citigroup's Banamex operation failed to police money transfers across the U.S.-Mexico border. Citigroup has said it is cooperating with the inquiry, which also involves the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Citigroup spokeswoman Molly Meiners declined comment. Separately, Citigroup is investigating an alleged fraud involving $565 million in loans at Banamex and as a result of that has fired a dozen employees. Prosecutors have also investigated potential sanctions breaches at Deutsche Bank, according to people familiar with the probe, though it is unclear how far that has progressed. The bank said in its last annual report that it had received requests for information from regulatory agencies and is cooperating with them. It didn't immediately respond to a request for comment. The timing of any possible legal action or related settlement negotiations is unclear. The pipeline of cases has built up as U.S. prosecutors have pivoted from focusing on specific criminals to also vigorously pursuing the financial institutions that move money for them. At the heart of this effort is a 12-prosecutor Money Laundering and Bank Integrity Unit within the Justice Department that was created in 2010. It handled the investigation into BNP for U.S. sanction law violations, primarily involving Sudan deals, as well as large money laundering and sanctions cases in recent years against HSBC Holdings Plc, ING Bank N.V. and others. Leslie Caldwell, who leads the criminal division at Justice Department, said in an interview that the unit has its sights set on a range of firms potentially involved in illicit money flows. "I think that we'll probably see other financial institutions, regional banks, maybe some smaller banks, and I think we're also going to be seeing, as we have already started to see, more online activity," Caldwell said during an interview on Friday, speaking of cases in the pipeline. She declined to name specific firms or confirm any particular investigations.   BANK SECRECY ACT Historically, prosecutors have used money laundering laws to go after low-level money mules, said Caldwell, in reference to lower level employees and others who weren't playing critical roles in instigating or allowing the money laundering. The Justice Department about five years ago decided to switch tactics and to more aggressively exploit the Bank Secrecy Act, which dates back to the 1970s, and was expanded to include criminal penalties in the wake of the September 11, 2001 attacks. The law, which requires financial institutions to have robust anti-money laundering programs, was little used for criminal prosecutions until the Money Laundering and Bank Integrity Unit - known internally as "mlbiu" - was created in 2010 to focus on enforcing it. "This is a way to attack that problem in a much bigger and more effective way," said Caldwell, a prosecutor for 17 years who was confirmed to her current post in May. "The old-school way of attacking money laundering ... really didn't get at the problem, which was that many banks did not have adequate controls in place to prevent those transactions from happening." The shift has put the financial industry on watch, after prosecutors failed to land high-profile criminal cases stemming from the financial crisis and turned their attention to other types of criminal activity within the financial industry. Banks have responded by hiring thousands of new compliance experts and spending millions of dollars to improve their programs. "I would put the investigation of financial institutions for laundering proceeds of official corruption pretty high on the list of risks," said Michael Dawson, who coordinates the global compliance practice at the consulting firm Promontory Financial Group. "After you look at the sanctions cases, official corruption looms large as a risk on the horizon."   MOVING DOWN THE FOOD CHAIN As the unit finishes a series of money-laundering and sanctions cases against some of the world's largest banks, prosecutors fear that criminals have shifted to using mid-level financial institutions and other types of companies who may not have the controls that large institutions now have. Sources said the unit is increasingly investigating actors across the two dozen types of companies covered by the Bank Secrecy Act. Among the sectors covered by the act are broker-dealers, jewelry and auto dealers, casinos, insurance companies, and shipping companies. The Justice Department has already gone after a handful of such institutions, including check cashers in Brooklyn, Philadelphia and Los Angeles who assisted healthcare fraudsters by failing to report $50 million in transactions, and money transfer company MoneyGram whose agents were allegedly involved in $100 million in fraud schemes targeting the elderly. MoneyGram agreed to forfeit $100 million and enter a deferred prosecution agreement over the conduct in November 2012. It said at that time that it takes compliance seriously and had created a new anti-fraud program. Virtual currencies have also emerged as a major focus, in the wake of the unit's 2013 indictment of digital currency exchange Liberty Reserve, its founders and other employees who allegedly helped criminals launder more than $6 billion in proceeds. Attorneys from the Justice Department's asset forfeiture and money laundering section, which oversees the mlbiu unit, have also worked closely with a new FBI unit to help trace the assets of corrupt foreign leaders, traveling to Ukraine to help recover assets allegedly stolen by former president Viktor Yanukovich's government. Those efforts could also unearth information about which banks may have looked the other way to move proceeds of corruption, or may not have had required procedures in place, sources said.   (Reporting by Aruna Viswanatha; Editing by Karey Van Hall and Martin Howell) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Marcos Brindicci The U.S. men's national team plays Belgium at 4 p.m. today.Good morning, welcome to July! Here's what you need to know. BNP Paribas Shares Pop. The firm's stock opened up 3.4% higher in Paris after it announced it had sufficient funding to pay for its record $8.9 billion settlement over U.S. fraud charges, and that it would still be able to support its dividend of $1.50. We documented some of the howlers contained in the New York Department of Financial Services' consent order against the firm. Moody's kept its credit rating unchanged but noted its internal controls need work.     China PMI Expands For The First Time In Six Months. The purchasing manager's index reading from HSBC/Markit came in at 50.7, a bit below the preliminary reading but rising above 50 for the first time since December. "The economy continues to show more signs of recovery, and this momentum will likely continue over the next few months, supported by stronger infrastructure investments," said Qu Hongbin, chief economist for China at HSBC. "However there are still downside risks from a slowdown in the property market, which will continue to put pressure on growth in the second half of the year. We expect both fiscal and monetary policy to remain accommodative until the recovery is sustained.” Two Manufacturing Readings. At 9:45 a.m. we get Markit's purchasing manager's index for manufacturing. And at 10 a.m. we get ISM's manufacturing reading. Consensus is for an increase to 55.6 from 55.4 in May. In May the employment index was at 52.8%, and the new orders index was at 56.9%. "An array of survey evidence, along with the latest hard production data, indicates that the manufacturing sector is recovering quite strongly," Pantheon Macro's Ian Shepherdson writes in a note Monday. "The weather hit over the winter was much less severe than in some of the other data, and output rose at a 6.3% annualized rate in the three months to May, compared to the previous three months. We see no reason for these favorable trends to weaken in the near-term, but we are wary too that the next few months’ ISM surveys will overstate the pace of the rebound." A Better Siri. Apple is beefing up hiring in its Siri division to improve the speech recognition service. “Apple is not hiring only in the managerial level, but hiring also people on the team-leading level and the researcher level,” Abdel-rahman Mohamed, a postdoctoral researcher at the University of Toronto, who was courted by Apple, told Wired. “They’re building a very strong team for speech recognition research.” Auto Sales. All day, we get auto sales data for June. Analysts are expecting a reading of 16.4 million, down slightly from 16.7 million.  Construction Spending. Also at 10 a.m. we get construction spending data from the Census. Consensus is for a 0.5% increase. Eurozone Unemployment Goes Nowhere. The reading for May held at 11.6%. German unemployment was 5.1%, while Italy's was 12.6% and Spain's was 25.1%.  UK Pound At Highs. The British sovereign hit its highest level since 2008, trading at $1.7147. The move came as UK PMI hit 57.5, topping expectations and signaling that a rate hike could come before the end of the year. Markets. U.S. futures were higher. Stocks in Asia were mixed. European stocks were up across the board.  Bitcoin Auctions Results Still Unknown. Prices climbed to multi-week highs on word from major institutions that they'd been outbid at the U.S. Marshals' auction of nearly 30,000 Bitcoins from the Silk Road case Monday, but the service itself hasn't announced anything yet. Some have their own theories about what may have happened...  FREE AppDownload
Demographics is destiny.  Countries with a young, growing workforce grow faster. Countries with an aging, shrinking workforce find growth to be much harder. Michael McDonough, the Chief Economist at Bloomberg LP, just published this great chart, showing the demographic pyramids of Japan, China, and the US. Demographic pyramids show the relative size of each age cohort at a point in time. So for example, you can see that in 1990, Japan had a lot of workers who were in their early 40s (prime working age) as well as a sizable contingent of teenagers. But you can see that these days, there are very few teens, and lots of folks who are older than 60, which speaks to how the country is graying. By 2050, there will be tons of 70 year olds, and almost no teenagers (relatively speaking). In 1990, China was incredibly young, with almost nobody old, but as you can see it's rapidly aging as well, with a substantial contingent of workers in their 40s. The best looking, really, is the US, which has a nice evenly distributed population. The shape of the pyramid isn't changing much, in part because our immigration policy keeps the population from getting too old.  Click the chart to enlarge. Michael McDonough, Bloomberg FREE AppDownload
As we've been pointing out, this is a huge week for the economy, as it's jam-packed with data that will tell us whether the economy is taking off or not. The highlight of the week will come Thursday, when the June, Non-Farm Payrolls report will come out. But we should learn something interesting today, when auto companies like Ford and GM report total vehicle sales for June. In May, auto sales surged to their highest level since the crisis, with sales coming in at 16.7 million annualized unit rate. FRED But the big May surge may have just been the result of pent up demand after the cold winter, and not actually reflective of economic strength. So sales are expected to slip a bit from 16.7 million (annualized) to 16.4 million.  If the slip to June is minimal, then that says the economy is still solid. If car sales fall much lower, then watch out. Stay tuned. We'll be covering all the numbers live today. FREE AppDownload
It's time for a quick reminder about what a tragedy the Eurozone economy is. Here's a newly-released look at unemployment in the region. As you can see from the thin line, Eurozone unemployment remains flat at 11.6%, and it's very close to the peak level of 12%. It's hard to overstate how godawful this number as. After a gigantic collapse, there's been almost no substantial improvement. And the gains that have been made have been inconsistent. The recent European parliamentary elections (in which a number of protest parties from the extreme left and the extreme right did well) were a good reminder: While the Eurozone didn't break up during the crisis, the overall situation is quite sick. The overall failure to make substantial improvements in the economy and get people back to work can only be characterized as a scandal. Eurostat FREE AppDownload
The Eurozone economy continues to muddle along, not contracting, but not growing by that much. But one country is HOT. In Spain, the manufacturing sector just grew by its fastest pace in 7 years. Check out the summary of the new manufacturing report that came out this morning, from Markit: Markit To give you a sense of how impressively Spain is doing, check out its manufacturing sector compared to everyone else in Europe. Ireland is the only other country to have improved this month. Markit FREE AppDownload
