Hong Kong is one of the most densely populated areas in the world. Here are some facts about its housing, wealth, and economy that will make you realize its importance to the region. Produced by Alex Kuzoian Follow BI Video: On Facebook
FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersGeneral view of the business district in TokyoTOKYO (Reuters) - Nearly half of Japanese firms think the government should start defending the yen at this month's dollar high of 110, a Reuters survey shows, underscoring the threat that rising fuel and other import costs pose to a fragile economy. Over the past two years, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has sought to boost the economy and cure deflation with bold monetary stimulus that has successfully wrought a much weaker yen. But the yen's descent against the greenback to a six-year low of 110.09 on Oct. 1 - a rapid 8 percent decline over three months - has prompted a chorus of complaints from companies that Abe's medicine could become poison. While the yen has since regained some ground to around 106 on expectations that the Federal Reserve may put off raising U.S. interest rates, the potential for further weakness is a major concern for many firms, the Reuters Corporate Survey showed. "If the yen is guided too weak, raw material costs jump and firms that can't pass on those costs become exhausted and find it hard to survive," wrote an executive at a paper company, one of the industries most affected by yen weakness. The survey, conducted from Sept. 30 to Oct. 14, found 45 percent of companies want the government to start talking up the yen or defend it with market intervention at around 110 to the dollar. That suggests that this level could become a key point at which corporate pressure on the government to do something about yen weakness intensifies. But it also found that some 23 percent of firms want action at around 115 yen and 20 percent prefer around 120 yen, with the remainder happy to wait for weaker levels. That suggests that authorities in export-reliant Japan will also be cautious in weighing the pros and cons of interfering in the market. The survey polled executives at 486 firms capitalized at more than 1 billion yen, who responded anonymously. About 240 firms answered questions on foreign exchange.   EXTRA SENSITIVE Japan's sensitivity to yen weakness has become particularly heightened since 2011 Fukushima disaster led to the shutdown of its nuclear reactors, costing the country an estimated $28 billion in extra fuel imports annually. "That Japan cuts import costs by reining in energy imports is a matter of utmost urgency and in that sense, getting the nuclear reactors started is the nation's biggest political priority," wrote an executive at an electronics firm. This month's survey follows results last month that showed only one quarter of Japanese firms preferred an exchange rate of 105 yen or weaker. [ID:nL3N0RH50F] The yen's quick decline against the dollar in September prompted Finance Minister Taro Aso and other policymakers to warn that rapid moves in foreign exchange are undesirable though he added that the then levels of 108-109 were not that weak. Eisuke Sakakibara, who led both yen-selling and yen-buying interventions as Japan's currency czar in the 1990s, told Reuters this month that authorities would have to step in if the U.S. currency surged to between 115 and 120 yen, although he does not expect such a rapid decline at present. The last time Japanese authorities bought the yen was in 1998 when the dollar surged above 140, though economists caution that changes to the economy, including the impact of fuel costs and deflation mean that level cannot be seen as a yardstick today. Asked to forecast yen moves for the next 12 months, almost 60 percent of firms said they saw it moving between 100 and 110, while 35 percent projected a range of 110-120. The survey, conducted for Reuters by Nikkei Research, also showed that only 20 percent of firms think the economy - bruised by a sales tax hike this year - is ready to weather a second such tax hike planned for next year. Thirty-three percent say it won't cope while the rest declined to say either way. The result highlights a tough choice for Abe when he makes a final decision on the tax in December.   ($1 = 106.24 Japanese yen)   (Editing by William Mallard and Edwina Gibbs) FREE AppDownload
Dan Greenhaus of BTIG (@danbtig) gives us an update on earnings season so far. Short version, so far, corporate earnings are holding up just fine: Of course, we’re right in the middle of earnings season (129 companies report this coming week, second chart below) and in that regard, the bounce appears somewhat justified. While there has been a poor reception to several high profile reports, earnings reports this week overall were just fine. Indeed, broad earnings expectations have actually ticked up. Large companies such as BLK, CSX, AXP and DAL all beat EPS estimates while several others (URI, TXT, ADS) were greeted quite warmly by investors (it’s still way too early to read into earnings season. Exactly half the companies that reported last week traded higher while half traded lower). Certainly, there’s more to the stock market than earnings but better earnings can’t hurt. FREE AppDownload
The big fall in iron ore over the past 12 months is only a surprise to casual observers of Australia’s number one export, with BHP’s marketing guru saying that prices below $100 a tonne are the big Australian’s base case. The AFR reports that Mike Henry said that any move in the price back over $100 would be short-lived due to the large supply increases and availability. Henry said: Could you see iron ore back up over $US100? For a short period of time, ­possibly, yes. What I’m pretty confident about is that you are not going to see iron ore back above $US100 on a sustained basis going forward in real terms .<U+200A>.<U+200A>. Our view is that prices over the long run will be sub that sort of level. Is that baked into our plans? Absolutely, yes. Henry also took aim at claims that BHP is directly targetting other producers or countries saying that “iron ore is fundamentally not a scarce resource,” and as a result BHP and Australia need to ask if they want to take advantage of the opportunity “or do we want to cede that to someone else – another country, another region, another company?” So on that basis if Australia and BHP weren’t producing, someone else would be and as such the question is not if others are being shut out but rather if an opportunity is being missed. He also added that BHP sees about 200 million tonnes being China’s long-run resource availability due to competitiveness either “because of inherently low mining costs, or because it is geographically proximate to demand, and therefore has less by way of transportation costs”. So BHP and Austalia keeps producing in the knowledge that the big rise in price was not normal. Rather prices below $100 now are. This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
TechCrunchDouglas MacMillan of the Wall Street Journal says Marissa Mayer will announce a "new plan" for Yahoo this week. Yahoo will hold its third quarter earnings call this Tuesday. Citing a source briefed on Yahoo's plan, MacMillan says Mayer will discuss the following on the call: Mayer is currently under pressure from activist shareholder Jeff Smith. Smith, of Starboard Value, wrote an open letter a couple weeks ago, saying that Mayer should quit making acquisitions altogether, find a tax efficient way to monetize its Asian assets, and sell to AOL.  FREE AppDownload
The Old Fashioned was a popular cocktail in the 1960s but nearly forgotten over the years. The drink came back to the spotlight with the premier of "Mad Men" in 2007 as the Old Fashioned was the cocktail of choice for the show's lead character Don Draper.  For an easy-to-make at home bourbon cocktail recipe, we turned to the drink masters at Ward III in New York City. Owner and bartender Kenneth McCoy put a fall spin on the classic Old Fashioned, to create "The Fall Fashioned." Before the snow falls, warm up with this drink.  Sam RegaFor the Fall Fashioned, the ingredients are on point. Sam RegaWith these easy directions, you'll sit back and enjoy the night in no time. Produced by Sam Rega. Additional camera by Justin Gmoser.   
From Joe Light at the WSJ: Fannie, Freddie Near Deal That Promises to Boost Mortgage Lending Mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac , their regulator and lenders are close to an agreement that could greatly expand mortgage credit while helping lenders protect themselves from charges of making bad loans, according to people familiar with the matter. ... The new agreement would clarify what mistakes should constitute fraud, giving greater confidence to lenders that they won’t be penalized many years after a loan is made. ... Separately, Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the FHFA are considering new programs that would allow them to guarantee some mortgages with down payments of as little as 3%. CR Note: There are two parts: 1) less risk to lenders of being forced to buyback faulty loans, and 2) a lower downpayment in certain circumstances. According to the article the agreement could be announced next week. FREE AppDownload
Last week was brutal in the market. But Friday was very strong, with all the major indices gaining over 1%. And the rally is continuing today. Viz FinViz, here's a look at futures shooting up in early going. FinViz FREE AppDownload
Here's a mystery! IBM just made this announcement: ARMONK, N.Y.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- IBM (IBM) will make a major business announcement and separately release its third-quarter 2014 earnings results on Monday, October 20 at 7:00 a.m. EDT. Martin Schroeter, IBM senior vice president and chief financial officer, will host the company's quarterly earnings conference call on Monday, October 20 beginning at 8:00 a.m. EDT. The Webcast may be accessed via a link at http://www.ibm.com/investor/events/earnings/3q14.html. Guesses? UPDATE: Bloomberg says IBM will announce that it's paying $1.5 billion to Globalfoundries inc. to take its chip manufacturing biz off its hands. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe Bombardier?s Global 6000 business jet stands on the tarmac at the airport in New DelhiNEW YORK (Reuters) - Business jet buyers are expected to take delivery of as many as 675 new aircraft worth about $20.5 billion this year, a slight rise over deliveries worth $20 billion 2013, according to a forecast by Honeywell International Inc . The outlook for the next decade shows demand for 9,450 jets worth about $280 billion. That's up from 9,250 jets worth $250 billion in last years' long-range forecast, Honeywell said. But the global survey of 1,500 corporate flight departments, released on the eve of the National Business Aviation Association conference, found that companies had reduced their five-year plans to replace or add to their fleets, with the biggest demand change coming from the Asia-Pacific region. Corporate fleet managers, including governments and charter companies, plan to make new jet purchases over the next five years equal to, on average, about 23 percent of their fleets, down from about 28 percent in the 2013 survey, Honeywell said. Buyers in the Asia-Pacific region showed the biggest drop in buying plans, down about 12 percentage points, while buying expectations in the Middle East and Africa, Latin America, and North America fell by 8, 11, and 6 percentage points, respectively, the survey found. Plans by buyers in Europe, however, jumped 6 percentage points, despite the inclusion of Russia, where purchase plans fell due to economic uncertainty and sanctions. "Even with a lower purchase expectation from Russia, Europe was still up, which I think is a good sign for the Western European economies," said Brian Sill, president of business and general aviation at Honeywell Aerospace. Buyers remain most interested in large-cabin business jets, but interest in mid-cabin and small-cabin jets improved in the latest survey. "That's good news because they had been languishing for the last few years," Sill said. The launch last week of two new large-cabin aircraft by Gulfstream Aerospace Corp, a unit of General Dynamics Corp , is among the factors expected to fuel purchases over the longer term. Fractional ownership companies also are starting to renew their fleets, Sill said. Fractional operator Flexjet was one of the two launch customers of the new Gulfstream G500 and G600 models. In terms of market share, demand from North America slipped 2 percentage points to 59 percent. The share of so-called BRIC countries (Brazil, Russia, India and China) fell to 29 percent in the latest survey from 42 percent last year. "Brazil had very strong purchase expectations, despite the economy being in a bit of a slowdown," Sill said.  (Reporting by Alwyn Scott; Editing by Meredith Mazzilli) FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVTom Lee."I think the S&amp;P and the Dow in five years will actually double," Fundstrat's Tom Lee said. Lee told Bloomberg's Tom Keene on Friday that he expects earnings on the S&amp;P 500 to peak near $190 per share from around $120 today. He expects earnings growth to be accelerated by a pick up in investment spending, a theme that many economists have been forecasting. Business equipment has been getting old and companies have the cash to spend. Indeed, spending plans haven't been this high in years. In recent weeks, volatility has spiked in the markets, bringing the S&amp;P 500 down from 2,019 on September, 19 to 1,862 when Lee spoke to Keene. Fundstrat Global AdvisorsInvestment spending is way below historical averages.A doubling of the S&amp;P 500 means Lee expects it to top out at north of 3,700. That's even more bullish than the long-term bullish calls recently offered by Morgan Stanley's Adam Parker and RBC's Jonathan Golub. Lee does recognize there are risks out there. "What could go wrong?" he asked rhetorically in a note to clients on Friday. "In our view, we believe the greatest risk is a spillover into the global economy from the recent financial market dislocations. That is, an unwind of carry trades result in higher Euro-area funding costs then transmitted to US banks as financial stress. However, the offset remains supportive Central Banks that are closely watching. " FREE AppDownload
The excellent investor and commentator Barry Ritholtz recently published a long-term stock market chart. The chart shows what most students of market history quickly learn: Stocks move in distinct "bull" and "bear" phases that often last for decades: Barry Ritholtz The big argument among market pundits these days is whether the market is still in the middle of the "bear" phase that began in 2000 (14 years and counting) ... or in the middle of a new "bull" phase that started at the financial-crisis low in 2009 (five years and counting). The bulls look at the chart above and point out that we moved sideways for 10 years after 2000, say that was plenty, and predict that stocks will now obviously forge ever higher for years as the new bull market continues: Business Insider Bears, meanwhile, look at the chart and see a temporary, Fed-fueled spike in the middle of a long bear market that they believe will see at least one more big downtrend and correction (likely lasting years) before it is done: Business Insider So who's more likely to be right? Well, let's add a bit more information to that chart.  Throughout history, stock prices have loosely gravitated around the "fundamentals" of the underlying companies — namely, earnings. Specifically, stocks have traded in a range of 5X cyclically adjusted earnings (at bear-market lows) to 44X earnings (at the peak of the biggest bull market in history — the one that ended in 2000). The "average" P/E ratio over this period, meanwhile, has been about 15X. When you add P/E ratios to the charts above, you quickly notice a pattern: Sustained bear-market periods have begun when the P/E is very high (~25X+). Sustained bull-market periods, meanwhile, have begun when the P/E is very low (5X to 9X). Business Insider In other words, sustained bull markets begin when investors are so disgusted by stocks — and so pessimistic about the future of stocks — that they'll pay only 5X to 9X earnings for them. And sustained bear markets begin when investors are so giddy with excitement about stocks and the prospects for stocks that they'll happily pay 25X earnings or more for them. So how about the recent period? Well, it began as history suggested it would: With a stratospheric P/E ratio (44X) and widespread investor jubilation and excitement. Back in 2000, investors were wild about stocks and the prospects for stocks, and most people (including, sadly, me) believed that stocks would keep going up. Then, after a crash (2000 to 2002) and one failed recovery (2003 to 2007), stocks hit a crushing low in 2009 that was down more than 50% from the 2000 peak. At that moment, March 2009, many investors were scared to death of owning stocks, and many analysts expected the market to drop much farther. At that moment, the PE ratio also hit 13X. This was a below-average P/E, finally, but it was also considerably higher than the P/E ratios that had marked previous bear-market bottoms. Then, when the world didn't end, for five years, stocks rocketed straight upward, until the market had nearly tripled off the 2009 low, as investors overcame their fear and gradually fell in love with stocks again.  As recently as a month ago, with the market setting new highs, investors were once again very excited about the future of stock prices. So excited, in fact, that they were willing to pay 26X earnings for them. So, what does this tell us? Nothing conclusive, unfortunately. No one knows the future. But we can make a couple of observations: Unless something has changed that makes the past 115 years of market history irrelevant (always possible, but probably not likely), it would not be surprising if the biggest bull-market peak in market history was followed by one of the biggest bear-market workouts in history — one that, perhaps, might last as long or longer than any major workout period to date. As a long-term investor, I thankfully don't have to make short-term market calls, and I have eventually learned (the hard and expensive way) to limit my stock exposure enough so as not to be particularly bothered by volatility. I own some stocks, so if we're in the middle of a new bull market, great. I also own some cash and bonds, so if we're still in the middle of a long bear market, fine. If stocks tank from here, I'll trade some of that cash for bonds and hope that the world doesn't end. But my guess, for what it's worth, is that we're still in the middle of a long bear market. If you made me draw what I think is the most likely future for stock prices, therefore, I would draw it like this: Business Insider SEE ALSO: Here's My Disaster Scenario For Stock Prices ... FREE AppDownload
Via Patek Philippe $2.5 million for a watch may seem like a pretty hefty price tag, but this limited-edition Patek Philippe is arguably the most complex wristwatch that has ever been made.  For its 175th anniversary, the luxury Swiss watchmaker invented a collection of limited-edition commemorative timepieces called The Grandmaster Chime with 20 complications, two dials, and 214 parts. The watch measures 47.7 mm in diameter and has 1,366 individual components. It took a whopping eight years and 100,000 man hours to develop, 60,000 of which were spent just on the watch's movement.  Patek Philippe calls the Grandmaster Chime an “intelligent watch” with features such as a minute repeater, instantaneous perpetual calendar with a four-digit year display, and a second time zone. It also has two deluxe features that are a world-first for chime watches, including an acoustic alarm that strikes the alarm time and even a function that chimes the date. Via Patek Philippe The Grandmaster Chime is the first double-face wristwatch to be presented by Patek Philippe, meaning that it can be worn with either dial facing up — one shows the time, while the other shows the calendar. The “swivel case,” which enables the watches smooth reversal, took an astounding four years to perfect. Both sides are equally stunning. The 18k rose gold 16.1 mm thick clasp was fully engraved by hand. Even the strap is meticulously designed — hand-stitched and made from alligator. Via Patek Philippe Only seven of the Grandmaster Chimes will be produced, and Patek Philippe will keep one in the company’s museum in Geneva where it can be admired by the public.  And for those who want to purchase the remaining six, it's not enough to have $2.5 million in the bank. Lucky customers must also be interviewed by Thierry Stern, the chairman of the watchmaking brand. "I would like to chat with the client and make sure he's a watch lover and make sure he's going to enjoy the watch for many years," Stern told CNBC. Via Patek Philippe FREE AppDownload
PoliceFormer UBS banker Raoul Weil is seen in a booking photo after his arrival at the Broward Sheriff's Office in Fort Lauderdale, Florida December 13, 2013. Raoul Weil has gone on trial for aiding tax evasion. IN 2008 Bradley Birkenfeld, an American working for UBS, blew the whistle on the giant Swiss bank's offshore operations, which had helped thousands of rich Americans to dodge their taxes. Among the lurid details that he revealed was the use of encrypted laptops, the smuggling of diamonds in toothpaste tubes for clients, and evidence of bankers travelling to America on tourist visas to avoid arousing suspicion. UBS was sent reeling by the revelations. In recompense, in 2009 it paid a $780m fine to the American government and turned over data to the authorities on more than 4,000 clients. The Americans subsequently trained their sights on other Swiss banks-and on dozens of their employees and legal advisers. So far more than 30 individuals have been charged with criminal conduct. The biggest fish to be caught in the net is now about to have his day in court. On October 14th jury selection started in a federal court in Florida for the trial of Raoul Weil, who as head of UBS's global private-banking business was responsible for the division that had fallen foul of the authorities. In 2009 America issued an international arrest warrant for Mr Weil. He was nabbed last year at an Italian hotel, while on holiday with his wife, and was extradited to the United States, where he has been under house arrest. Prosecutors allege that Mr Weil, as head of UBS's wealth-management division, oversaw and knew about efforts by a team of 60 or so Switzerland-based private bankers to court American clients and to help them hide as much as $20 billion of undeclared money. This was done using sham companies and foundations, according to court filings. If found guilty, Mr Weil faces up to five years in prison for conspiracy to commit tax fraud. He denies wrongdoing. His lawyers are expected to argue that a small group of rogue private bankers hid their misconduct from Mr Weil, and that this was possible because he ran a vast business with thousands of employees and thus would not have had intimate knowledge of what each unit was up to. Courtesy of UBS The trial pits former UBS bigwigs against each other. The government's star witness is expected to be Martin Liechti, the former head of private banking for the Americas. He was promised that he would not be charged if he helped the investigation. Unless the prosecution has managed to turn up documents linking Mr Weil directly to any illicit activity, Mr Leichti's recollection of conversations with his former boss will be crucial. The defence is sure to attack his credibility and question his motives, suggesting that he is lying or embellishing to save his own skin. Several other current or former UBS people are expected to testify. Some will do so by video link because they fear arrest if they step foot in the United States. Bankers with knowledge of past sins are caught between a rock and a hard place. On the one hand, they have been placed under immense pressure to co-operate by the American authorities, while at the same time threatened with criminal charges by Swiss prosecutors if their handing-over of information is deemed to constitute a breach of Switzerland's strict bank-secrecy and data-privacy laws. AP/J Pat CarterDavid Mandel, left, talks to his client, Raoul Weil, a former top executive with Swiss bank UBS AG who was a fugitive for years, Tuesday, Jan. 7, 2014, in a Fort Lauderdale, Fla., on U.S. fraud conspiracy charges stemming from a broad federal tax evasion investigation. Some of the bankers charged in America have been able to cut deals in which they received probation in return for pleading guilty. That appears not to have been possible in Mr Weil's case, presumably because the authorities see it as an opportunity to send a message about the perils of aiding tax dodgers-and not only to the Swiss. American prosecutors are also believed to be looking at banks in Singapore, Israel and the Caribbean. Switzerland remains the largest offshore financial centre, by some margin, with more than $2 trillion of non-resident cash. But the American-led assault has forced it to embrace changes that just a few years ago seemed unthinkable. The Alpine haven has, for instance, agreed to start exchanging information on its banks' clients with other countries' tax authorities on a systematic basis from 2018, although the measure still requires parliamentary approval. Nevertheless, the reckoning for Swiss banks is far from over. Around a hundred mostly small and mid-sized banks are participating in a programme with America that will allow them to avoid indictment if they pay fines. But a dozen larger banks were blocked from taking part and are being investigated. UBS is not among them, having stumped up a big fine in 2009, but it has other problems: France is also reported to be seeking several billion euros in penalties from the bank for offering a financial sanctuary to its tax-shy citizens. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
Ethan Miller/Getty ImagesIn September 2013, Britney Spears spent $100,000 to elaborately announce her career comeback — a two-year residency at Planet Hollywood Resort and Casino in Las Vegas. That December, Spears took the stage to debut her new show, titled "Britney: Piece of Me." Spears' original two-year contract reportedly had her earning $30 million to perform 48 shows per year. With ticket prices at $60 to over $500, the residency has been so successful that in September, Spears announced she had extended her contract for an additional two years through 2017. While Spears' most recent album "Britney Jean" was a total flop, the singer's Las Vegas residency has been a huge win for Planet Hollywood. Citi credit analyst Jenna Giannelli explains in a new research note: Planet Hollywood – The property is doing very well, having been revitalized by the Britney Spears show. Prior to her contract, the company had EBITDA of ~$80mm that is now run-rating near $100mm. Her contract expires at the end of 2015, and the company is already engaging new acts to keep the momentum going. Further, as capex wraps up on the Quad, it will be reallocated toward properties that need refreshes including Planet Hollywood, whose rooms and pool need upgrades. In other words, Spears can take at least some credit for boosting Planet Hollywood's annual operating earnings by around $20 million. Note, this is the money the house keeps after paying Spears. The resort and casino was taken over by Caesars Entertainment in 2009 after the casino defaulted on its mortgage. As someone who has watched Spears lip-synch her way through the Vegas show, Planet Hollywood should consider itself lucky that people will still pay to see pop's one-time princess. FREE AppDownload
Barron'sIn the pantheon of odd market indicators, the Barron's magazine cover is probably one of the more unreliable contrarian indicators followed by many (See here, here, here, here, here, and here). So, don't be surprised on Monday when a market pundit appears on CNBC or Bloomberg TV and invokes the new bullish cover as a screaming sell signal. This week's Barron's cover story features the bullish results of the periodical's "Big Money" poll. "It’s going to take a lot more than the past month’s 5%-plus selloff in stocks for America’s money managers to change their upbeat tune," Barron's Jack Willoughby writes. "That’s what they’ve been telling Barron’s in the past two weeks, ever since 59% of participants in our latest Big Money poll said they were bullish or very bullish about the outlook for U.S. stocks through the middle of 2015. That’s up from 56% in our spring survey, but below last fall’s bullish reading of 68%." Willoughby writes that most managers expect a 10% correction in stock prices within 12 months. However, that's expected to be just a blip in the already 5-year-old bull market. "Based on their mean forecasts in the Big Money poll, the bulls see the Dow Jones industrials topping 18,360 by the middle of 2015, and the Standard &amp; Poor’s 500 index hitting 2173," Willoughby continued. "While their targets, which imply a gain of about 12% for the Dow and 15% for the S&amp;P 500, might seem aggressive after last week’s rout, their commitment to U.S. equities remains intact." While it's possible to cherry-pick a few bullish covers that coincided with market tops, a bullish magazine cover is arguably the silliest reason to sell your stocks. Read more at Barrons.com. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Tyrone Siu Inflation is crumbling across Europe. In fact, in several countries, it's already negative. Economists are increasingly worried that the whole continent is going to drop into deflation. Most people don't know what deflation means. We're familiar with its opposite, inflation. That's the condition in which prices keep rising, the value of money keeps falling, and people end up having to pay huge sums for small amounts of goods — as they are in Venezuela right now. For most people, deflation will be a scary and rare kind of economic meltdown. And it can be far more difficult to fix than inflation. It means that prices will start to fall. While that sounds great — everything is getting cheaper! — it's actually a disaster because in deflation no one wants to buy anything, demand plummets, and economic growth grinds to a halt, bringing employment with it. Here is how we got into this mess. The European Central Bank and the Bank of England both target 2% inflation, like the US Fed. That rate keeps prices basically stable, and people are encouraged to be productive because they know in the future their money will be worth a little bit less. But that "less" isn't too catastrophic in the short term — it allows people to plan ahead, in other words, and plan for growth. But Europe is nowhere near that level of healthy-but-minimal inflation. It is way below it, flirting with deflation. Here are the latest deflation figures from Europe, for September.  That's making economists extremely worried about deflation, when prices go completely into reverse. The International Monetary Fund's latest world economic outlook (WEO) has put the probability of deflation in the eurozone at 30%, up from 20% earlier this year. IMF So prices are falling. Who cares? When the price of goods falls, isn't that a good thing? It seems completely counterintuitive to be annoyed about deflation. Economists seem to get wound up, but when was the last time you heard a normal person complain about spending less on their shopping? Of course, that's true. There's such a thing as benign deflation. Take, for example, smartphones. The phone in my pocket has more computing power than several slightly older devices put together, so the price of that computing power has clearly dropped. That's good, supply-driven deflation. Productivity and technological development mean with that the same amount of money, I can now afford a far superior product.  That sort of deflation isn't the kind that economists are getting wound up about. Prices aren't grinding lower in Spain because workers there are suddenly massively more productive. In fact, falling prices are a symbol of a lack of demand. In a recession, demand drops significantly, and so companies cut prices to offload what they're making. That's the negative type of deflation, and if it sets in, it can be pretty harmful. Economist David Beckworth wrote a great, longer explanation about the difference between benign and malign inflation. Let's take Italy as an example. Italy is still running a deficit and accumulating a national debt. When deflation sets in, tax revenues from sales decline, because prices fall. If property prices decline, income from property taxes decline, and so on. When your public debt looks like this, that's a concern: Capital Economics They could cut government spending, but if deflation continues, they'll have to keep cutting forever, going into a sort of permanent austerity.  Falling prices also discourage business investment. Why spend money on machinery today, when you could buy it in two years for a lower price? For normal consumers, why spend today when I could just hang onto my cash? It'll be worth more in a year's time. Over the long term, wages also have to fall or unemployment will rise. Companies taking a decreasing amount of income from what they make and sell will eventually have to cut their wages or lay people off. Nobody likes taking a pay cut, so this usually means a lot of people being laid off. Feel-good effects from lower prices aren't likely to last very long if you lose your job.  And that's the nightmare scenario that Europe is gazing at right now: Long-term deflationary unemployment, in which no one works because no one is buying anything. FREE AppDownload
Credit Suisse released a huge report on the distribution of global wealth. Among lots of other interesting results, like that the social democracies of Scandinavia are less equal than much of the rest of Europe, the 2014 "Global Wealth Report" includes data on the share of national wealth owned by the top 10% of the populations of a number of countries. Here's the percentage share of wealth owned by the top 10% in the countries included in Credit Suisse's study: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Credit Suisse Russia's top 10% owns an incredible 84.8% of that country's wealth. On the opposite end of the scale, only two countries' top 10% own less than half of national wealth: Belgium at 47.2% and Japan at 48.5%. The development of wealth inequality over the last few years is also interesting. Here's the change in the wealth share of the top 10% between 2000 and 2014. Countries in blue saw the top decile's share shrink, while the elites of the countries in red had their shares grow: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Credit Suisse The wealth shares of the top 10% grew dramatically since the turn of the century in a number of emerging markets like Egypt and China, while declining in places as diverse as Canada, Saudi Arabia, and Poland. In Peru, the US, and Australia, there was no change in the wealth share over this time period. Here's the income share of the top ten percent in each country, and the change in that share between 2000 and 2014: Credit Suisse For more insights on the state of wealth in the world, check out the report here.
REUTERS/Thomas Peter Poland's Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz (L) and German Chancellor Angela Merkel address a news conference at the Chancellery in Berlin October 9, 2014. "The Euro Trap: On Bursting Bubbles, Budgets, and Beliefs" By Hans-Werner Sinn. Oxford University Press; 380 pages. "The 13th Labour of Hercules: Inside the Greek Crisis" By Yannis Palaiologos. Portobello; 270 pages. THE euro crisis never seems to end. From an acute phase of worries about public debt and whether the single currency might break up it has moved on to a chronic condition of near-zero growth and fears of deflation. The signs are that the euro zone is now back in recession, with even the German economy, the central powerhouse, slowing sharply. And that is creating new pressure on Germany's chancellor, Angela Merkel, to borrow and spend more for the sake of Europe. Yet there is strong resistance to this inside Germany, led by "ordoliberal" economists such as Hans-Werner Sinn of Munich University and the CESifo Group, whose latest book, "The Euro Trap", sets out his rationale. Mr Sinn believes the European Central Bank has become too accommodating and that its plans to buy sovereign debt are illegal (the European Court of Justice has just heard arguments on this). He also reckons the euro-zone bail-outs of the past four years have created moral hazard, allowing feckless Mediterranean countries to get away with minimal reforms and only limited fiscal discipline. Mr Sinn is particularly obsessed with Target 2 (the first German version of his book was called "The Target Trap") liabilities, which refer to the accounts of national central banks with the ECB. The German Bundesbank is a large creditor of the system, and most Mediterranean central banks are large debtors. The worry is that German taxpayers might end up with a massive bill. Yet Target 2 is essentially an accounting matter that would only become a real issue if the euro were to break up and the ECB be dissolved. The paradox is that the risk of that happening is increased by German-inspired austerity and a lack of growth. Mr Sinn's solution to the euro's problems is also problematic: he wants some countries to leave the euro and re-enter at a lower rate. As it happens, Mrs Merkel and her advisers have thought hard about a Greek exit (or Grexit), as Mr Sinn notes. But every time they looked at it, they concluded that it would be costlier, including to Germany, than doing what is needed to keep the currency together. That remains true. REUTERS/Yannis Behrakis Presidential guards are framed through a burned EU flag in front of the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier by the parliament in central Syntagma square in Athens May 1, 2013 following a May Day rally.  Mr Sinn would not take much comfort from Yannis Palaiologos's searing account of Greece's nightmare of the past five years. Poor tax collection, entrenched corruption and a dysfunctional state may lead one to ask how Greece was let into the euro in the first place. The pain caused by a fall of around 25% in GDP since Greece's first bail-out of May 2010 has been immense. Yet Greeks still want to stay in the euro. And reforms have now improved competitiveness and even rekindled growth. There may still be political upsets--the author's analysis of the far-right party Golden Dawn is troubling--but at least Greece is on the mend. The current concerns, as Mr Sinn notes, are France and Italy, which are both too big to fail and too big to bail out. No wonder the euro crisis is not over. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
The Fed (and every other Fed commentator) uses the word “normalization” to describe the upcoming next phase of monetary policy. While the debate focuses on when that might be — as in, exactly how long is a “considerable period?” — we’ll simply say sooner than the markets expect. Now we can answer this question recently posed to me by a financial advisor: “What does normal mean?” “Normalization” refers to the two main components of the policy response to the 2008 financial crisis: quantitative easing (QE) and zero interest rate policy (ZIRP). By “normalization” the Fed means returning its balance sheet to its pre-crisis size by exiting quantitative easing. That was last year’s story (the “taper tantrum”), and in the September Federal Open Market Committee meeting the Fed outlined its plans for how it intends to normalize its balance sheet. Leaving aside the many “inside baseball” details, the key implication of QE was that this policy was fundamentally directed towards reducing longer maturity interest rates. The Fed supported the housing recovery by targeting the QE programs at subsidizing mortgage borrowing costs. Hence, the exit from QE debated last year led to increases mainly in longer maturity interest rates. “Normalization” means the end of ZIRP. This second part is more “normal” in that we can compare policy rates historically over past periods of Fed policy accommodation. Importantly, when considering the degree of policy accommodation historically, we need to look at the “real” fed funds rate (the nominal fed funds rate less the rate of inflation). Today, with inflation around 2%, current policy places rates at minus 2%. The BlackRock Blog We highlight a few key observations. First, policy accommodation following recent recessions has become more and more accommodative. The low point of accommodation in the mid ‘90s was around 0% in real terms, and in the early 2000s was around minus 50 basis points, or 0.5%. But the post-2008 period has seen the most persistently negative policy rates since those resulting from the inflation of the 1970s. What is less evident when looking at a chart of “real” policy rates is how extraordinary this period is for both its length (going on seven years) and for being at zero nominal rates. Both of these create a stronger “reach for yield” response from investors, suggesting a future market response to “normalization” that may be different than that observed historically. From “Highly” to “Merely” The Fed considers its monetary policy “highly” accommodative. Historically speaking, that is an understatement. Merely “accommodative” policy viewed from this historical perspective meant a zero real fed funds rate, “neutral” meant a 1-2% real rate, while “tight” policy meant a 2-4% real rate. “Highly” accommodative meant anything negative in real terms. Hence, moving from “highly” to “merely” accommodative implies a move in nominal fed funds rates from zero to 2%. History is not kind when it comes to the Fed’s track record of exiting policy accommodation. And our concerns are heightened by a sense of complacency in bond markets that underprice such a move back to more “normal” fed funds rates. Our biggest concern is around areas of the fixed income markets most exposed to where the exit from ZIRP will have the biggest impact: shorter maturity yields. FREE AppDownload
The recent correction in the price of crude oil should have an immediate positive impact on the US consumer as well as on a number of business sectors. However there also may be a significant economic downside to this adjustment. Here are some facts to consider. 1. The good: The US consumer is not only about to benefit from materially lower gasoline prices (see chart), but also from cheaper heating oil. With wages suppressed, the savings could be quite impactful, particularly for families with incomes below $50K per year. Merrill Lynch: - ... consumers will likely respond quickly to the saving in energy costs. Many families live “hand to mouth”, spending whatever income is available. The Survey of Consumer Finances found that 47% of families had no savings in 2013, up from 44% in the more healthy 2004 economy. Over time, energy costs have become a much bigger part of budgets for low income families. In 2012, families with income below $50,000 spent an average of 21.4% of their income on energy. This is almost double the share in 2001, and it is almost triple the share for families with income above $50,000.   Furthermore, with gasoline prices lower, it is unlikely that consumers will be buying significantly more of it than they have been. Historically when oil prices fell, gasoline consumption in dollar terms also fell. Dollars saved on fuel will be redirected elsewhere in the economy.  Moreover, suppressed oil prices will, at least in the near-term, keep inflation expectations lower. That means lower short-term rates for longer (see chart) and therefore lower home equity and adjustable rate mortgage monthly payments. It also means lower longer-term rates and cheaper fixed rate mortgages (see chart). We may even see some new refi activity. Other benefits include cheaper transport (potentially lower travel costs) and shipping costs (lower UPS/Fedex surcharges), as well as cheaper PVC, nylon, polyester, foam, etc. - all of which should benefit the consumer. 2. The bad: The US has become a major energy producer, with the sector partially responsible for improving economic growth and lower unemployment in recent years. As an example here is the GDP of Texas as a percentage of the US GDP. This trend is driven in part by the recent energy boom in the state.   If oil prices remain under pressure, this boom could soon be in jeopardy. While large US energy companies are sitting on a great deal of cash, at some point they will begin to cut portions of the higher cost development and production. And private investment into energy and oil services firms, which has been brisk lately, is likely to moderate. For example, here is the private debt and equity capital flowing into various states last month.   While, only a portion of the funds going to Texas is directly energy related, various other Texas firms funded by PE (including some real estate, manufacturing and financial companies) have been benefiting from the energy boom. Soon that flow of private capital may slow dramatically. To put this into perspective, here are the jobs directly generated from Texas oil and gas extraction in recent years. And this does not include the thousands of jobs that support this industry. Such trend is unlikely to continue if oil prices remain at current levels or fall further. In fact, while the overall industrial production growth in the US has been strong recently (see chart), a big portion of the gains are energy driven (see chart from Lee Adler). A slowdown in that sector will be quite visible across the US. 3. The ugly: A significant number of middle market energy firms in the US - many funded via private capital (above) - are highly leveraged. The leveraged finance markets are becoming quite concerned about the situation - even for larger firms with traded debt. Here is the yield spread between the energy sector loans in the Credit Suisse Leveraged Loan Index and the index as a whole.   Rumors have been circulating of a number of energy (and related services) firms getting ready to "restructure". There are also stories that some large funds are gearing up to scoop up distressed debt of levered energy firms. However, in spite of the ample liquidity out there, bets on companies with significant commodity exposure will be limited going forward - at least until stability returns to the oil markets. Defaults, layoffs, and cancelled projects in the energy space may be in store in the near-term. And that is sure to have a negative impact on the US labor markets and the economy as a whole. Finally, this is terrible news for the development of alternative energy sources. At these prices, fossil fuels are becoming increasingly difficult to compete with. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTo match Insight BANKS-COSTS/ASIABy Thomas Arnold and Archana Lakshmi Narasiah (Reuters) - Standard Chartered  has notified thousands of UAE small and medium enterprise customers it is closing their accounts as it responds to pressure from US regulators to cut its risks following an anti-money laundering settlement. "We regret to notify you that Standard Chartered Bank will no longer be able to provide banking services to you, and your account(s) will be closed 30 days from the date of this letter," the London-listed bank wrote in a letter to customers dated Oct. 9. The letter - seen by Reuters - has angered UAE customers, who say they have not been given enough time to close their accounts. Under a settlement agreed with the New York State Department of Financial Services in August, the bank was fined $300 million and given 90 days to end high-risk relationships with SMEs in the UAE and suspend processing of dollar-denominated payments for some clients at its Hong Kong unit. The UAE central bank said in August that between 1,400 and 8,000 Standard Chartered accounts in the country were expected to be affected by the U.S. settlement. "The bank is putting a lot of peoples’ livelihoods at risk as businesses like ours have salaries and suppliers to pay," said Louay al-Samarrai, managing director of Active Public Relations in Dubai, who has banked with Standard Chartered for 13 years. "I need more than 30 days notice as it takes a minimum of a few weeks to set up a new account with another bank." In a statement, Standard Chartered said it would honor existing borrowing agreements with customers with loans, allowing them to pay back outstanding amounts under the existing repayment timetable. It would make every effort to minimize the inconvenience, it said. Those affected by Standard Chartered’s exit have an annual sales turnover of between $1 million and $35 million, it added. The bank had initially considered selling part of the SME business, sources familiar with the matter said in August, and several local banks Reuters spoke to had expressed a potential interest in buying the assets. But the tight deadline imposed by the US regulator and the risk to potential buyers of handling accounts that could lead to further regulatory penalties proved stumbling blocks to a sale. "In an ideal world you would sell it and get some value but in the overall scheme of things it’s not that large an asset. The key driver is to keep the regulator happy,” one of the sources with knowledge of the matter said. Standard Chartered declined to comment on any potential plan to sell the SME business.  (Reporting By Tom Arnold; editing by Susan Thomas) FREE AppDownload
America’s still got it. That’s according to the latest Global Competitiveness Report, which names the U.S. the third-most competitive nation in the world, our highest ranking since 2008. For 10 years now the World Economic Forum (WEF) has published its annual competitiveness report, which assesses the strength of 144 countries’ 12 “pillars,” including institutions, infrastructure, health and primary education and higher education. It then ranks these countries based on their overall ability to promote prosperity for their citizens. Singapore retains its number two spot for the fourth straight year, while Switzerland leads for the sixth year in a row.  From 2006 until 2008, the U.S. held the top position, but following the financial crisis, our ranking slipped to number seven in 2012. This year, the WEF notes: “U.S. companies are highly sophisticated and innovative, and they are supported by an excellent university system... Combined with flexible labor markets and the scale opportunities afforded by the sheer size of its domestic economy—the world’s largest by far—these qualities make the United States very competitive.” You might be thinking: But wait, didn’t China’s economy just exceed our own? Yes and no. It’s true that, when U.S. and China’s economies are not adjusted for costs of living, the U.S. is still “the world’s largest by far.” Our GDP stands at around $16.8 trillion whereas China’s is $9.3 trillion. But based on purchasing power parity (PPP), a calculation that factors in relative costs of living to make comparisons between and among countries “fairer,” China has indeed caught up with and surpassed the U.S.  This news might bruise some readers’ egos, but it’s actually a tailwind for both commodities and our China Region Fund (USCOX). China is such an important player in the global economy that it’s nearly impossible for any serious investor to see China’s ascent as anything but positive. Below are some of the key takeaways from the Global Competitiveness Report. The economic report card gives the U.S. many accolades, including its capacity to attract and retain talented people from abroad. I always say that when people want to innovate and start businesses, they typically come here to the United States. The report reveals it’s relatively easy in the U.S. for “entrepreneurs with innovative but risky projects to find venture capital.” Our financial services are strong, and we have ready access to bank loans for sound business plans. When it comes to the ease of raising money by issuing shares on the stock market, we come in at sixth place, following Hong Kong, Taiwan, South Africa, New Zealand and Qatar. Only Switzerland beats us in our capacity for innovation. We score very well in our availability and corporate adoption of the latest technologies, as well as availability of scientists and engineers, quality of scientific research institutions and company spending on R&amp;D. We rank eleventh in the number of patent applications filed under the Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT), amounting to 149.8 per one million U.S. citizens. In the business sophistication pillar, we excel above all other countries in our use of sophisticated marketing tools and techniques. It comes as no surprise that the top three most problematic factors for doing business in the U.S., according to the report, are tax rates, tax regulations and inefficient government bureaucracy. It’s for these reasons that some businesses, including Burger King, Medtronic and Chiquita, are in the process of moving their corporate headquarters to countries with friendlier tax rates—Ireland, Canada and Singapore, among others. To prevent such tax inversions from occurring, our tax code sorely needs amending. Our 35-percent corporate income tax rate is the highest among the 34 member nations of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), and we actually rank 32 out of 34 in the 2014 International Tax Competitiveness Index. Only Portugal and France fare worse. Indeed, the Global Competitiveness Report shows that, to a large extent, taxes reduce the incentive to work: in this department we come in at number 37, just between China and Ghana. As for wastefulness of government spending, we rank number 73, trailing France by one point and China by 49 points. The report also shows that it can often be difficult for some businesses to comply with U.S. government regulations. If our government were to simplify the tax code and ease regulations, there’s no doubt that the U.S. could once again claim top honor. Other crucial areas for improvement include quality of electrical supply (we come in at number 24, following Barbados), soundness of banks (number 49), gross domestic secondary enrollment rate (59) and quality of math and science education (51). Some of the emerging markets that we track at U.S. Global Investors either made gains this year or maintained their positions. Poland, for instance, held on to its rank of 43. The WEF noted the country’s “improvements… in institutions, infrastructure and education,” its “increased flexibility in labor market efficiency” and its “[c]ontinued structural reforms geared toward strengthening its innovation and knowledge-driven economy.” A well-educated population and secure financial market make Poland globally competitive, but to truly boost its innovative capacity, it needs to improve its infrastructure, soften regulations and make settling business disputes more efficient. Greece jumped 10 spots to reach the rank of 81. Despite its high levels of government debt, the Mediterranean country has managed to improve the functioning of its goods and labor markets and reduce its budget deficit. However, its government is still inefficient and its financial market has yet to recover from the recent crisis that hit parts of Europe. A lack of access to financing is the most problematic factor for doing business in Greece. Other key emerging markets that rose up the list were China, Malaysia, Thailand, Indonesia and the Philippines. Despite a few areas for improvement, the United States is still the preeminent place on earth to invest, with plenty of openings for growth. As we continue to recover from the recession, now is the most opportune time in years to place your trust in America’s future. Our two U.S. equity funds, All American Equity Fund (GBTFX) and Holmes Macro Trends Fund (MEGAX), have been impacted by the global economic slowdown and growth scare. Cyclical stocks—the kind we focus on in these two funds—have lagged defensive stocks, by about 6 percent in the last month and a half. Cyclicals are those types of goods and services consumers can afford to purchase when the economy is performing well. Examples include discretionary-type companies such as Apple, Priceline and Tesla Motors. Defensives, on the other hand, typically remain stable, even in times of market downturns. Examples include electricity, gas and food.  This might sound like troubling news, but we view it as an opportunity. As you can see, a similar discrepancy between cyclical and defensive stocks occurred in April and May of last year, and yet mean reversion corrected it. We’re optimistic that such a turn will occur again, which means that now might be an ideal time to accumulate cyclicals. Another way to potentially capitalize on our nation’s successes is U.S. Global Investors’ Near-Term Tax Free Fund (NEARX), which invests in high-quality, U.S. municipal bonds. A significant portion of the fund is invested in health services, public schools and higher education, three of the 12 pillars that the WEF assesses. To keep these services operational and efficient, state and local governments rely on funding from the very bonds we invest in, which in turn improves Americans’ livelihood as well as the businesses they run. Although past performance is no guarantee of future results, NEARX has delivered positive tax-free income for the past 13 years. The fund seeks preservation of capital and has an attractive floating $2 net asset value (NAV) that has demonstrated minimal fluctuation in its share price.  Because of its risk-adjusted returns, NEARX has earned the coveted five-star rating from Morningstar* for the five-year performance period and four stars overall. Check out its performance here. To learn more about how you can help keep the United States competitive, I encourage you to request an information packet.       Please consider carefully a fund’s investment objectives, risks, charges and expenses. For this and other important information, obtain a fund prospectus by visiting www.usfunds.com or by calling 1-800-US-FUNDS (1-800-873-8637). Read it carefully before investing. Distributed by U.S. Global Brokerage, Inc.  Morningstar ratings based on risk-adjusted return and number of funds Category: Municipal National Short-Term Funds Through: 09/30/2014 Bond funds are subject to interest-rate risk; their value declines as interest rates rise. Tax-exempt income is federal income tax free. A portion of this income may be subject to state and local income taxes, and if applicable, may subject certain investors to the Alternative Minimum Tax as well. The Near-Term Tax Free Fund may invest up to 20% of its assets in securities that pay taxable interest. Income or fund distributions attributable to capital gains are usually subject to both state and federal income taxes. The Near-Term Tax Free Fund may be exposed to risks related to a concentration of investments in a particular state or geographic area. These investments present risks resulting from changes in economic conditions of the region or issuer. Though the Near-Term Tax Free Fund seeks minimal fluctuations in share price, it is subject to the risk that a decline in the credit quality of a portfolio holding could cause a fund’s share price to decline. Stock markets can be volatile and can fluctuate in response to sector-related or foreign-market developments. For details about these and other risks the Holmes Macro Trends Fund may face, please refer to the fund’s prospectus. Foreign and emerging market investing involves special risks such as currency fluctuation and less public disclosure, as well as economic and political risk. By investing in a specific geographic region, a regional fund’s returns and share price may be more volatile than those of a less concentrated portfolio. Morningstar Ratings are based on risk-adjusted return. The Morningstar Rating for a fund is derived from a weighted-average of the performance figures associated with its three-, five- and ten-year (if applicable) Morningstar Rating metrics. Past performance does not guarantee future results. For each fund with at least a three-year history, Morningstar calculates a Morningstar Ratingä based on a Morningstar Risk-Adjusted Return measure that accounts for variation in a fund’s monthly performance (including the effects of sales charges, loads, and redemption fees), placing more emphasis on downward variations and rewarding consistent performance. The top 10% of funds in each category receive 5 stars, the next 22.5% receive 4 stars, the next 35% receive 3 stars, the next 22.5% receive 2 stars and the bottom 10% receive 1 star. (Each share class is counted as a fraction of one fund within this scale and rated separately, which may cause slight variations in the distribution percentages.) The Global Competitiveness Index, developed for the World Economic Forum, is used to assess competitiveness of nations. The Index is made up of over 113 variables, organized into 12 pillars, with each pillar representing an area considered as an important determinant of competitiveness: institutions, infrastructure, macroeconomic stability, health and primary education, higher education and training, goods market efficiency, labor market efficiency, financial market sophistication, technological readiness, market size, business sophistication and innovation. The Tax Foundation’s International Tax Competitiveness Index (ITCI) measures the degree to which the 34 OECD countries’ tax systems promote competitiveness through low tax burdens on business investment and neutrality through a well-structured tax code. The ITCI considers more than forty variables across five categories: Corporate Taxes, Consumption Taxes, Property Taxes, Individual Taxes, and International Tax Rules. The S&amp;P 500 Stock Index is a widely recognized capitalization-weighted index of 500 common stock prices in U.S. companies. Fund portfolios are actively managed, and holdings may change daily. Holdings are reported as of the most recent quarter-end. Holdings in the funds mentioned as a percentage of net assets as of 09/30/2014: Burger King (0.00%), Medtronic (0.00%), Chiquita (0.00%), Apple, Inc. (4.35% in All American Equity Fund, 4.56% in Holmes Macro Trends Fund), The Priceline Group, Inc. (3.00% in All American Equity Fund, 3.03% in Holmes Macro Trends Fund), Tesla Motors, Inc. (2.09% in All American Equity Fund, 2.93% in Holmes Macro Trends Fund).   All opinions expressed and data provided are subject to change without notice. Some of these opinions may not be appropriate to every investor. By clicking the link(s) above, you will be directed to a third-party website(s). U.S. Global Investors does not endorse all information supplied by this/these website(s) and is not responsible for its/their content. Past performance does not guarantee future results. FREE AppDownload
Business Insider/Hayley PetersonCrumbs Bake Shop kicked off its grand reopening Tuesday, three months after the company suddenly shut down all 48 of its stores because it was running out of money.  Aside from a couple new freezers and a new paint job, the first store to reopen – located on Broadway and 37th street in Manhattan — doesn't look much different than it did several months ago.  Once the largest cupcake company in the world, Crumbs was saved from permanent closure by a joint investment from Fischer Enterprises, which owns Dippin' Dots, and Marcus Lemonis, the CEO of Camping World and host of CNBC's "The Profit." Inside the new store, there's a cooler stocked with Dippin' Dots and a freezer displaying new "Monster Munch" ice cream cups and chocolate-dipped key lime pie ice cream bars.  Business Insider/Hayley PetersonA cooler stocked with Dippin' Dots.There are also new cupcake flavors branded with the names of dessert companies owned by Lemonis, such as Sweet Pete’s Salted Caramel Chocolate and Key West Key Lime Pie. Business Insider/Hayley PetersonAmong the non-cupcake items are Crumb Nuts, which are donut-croissant hybrids mirroring a Cronut, and Baissants, which are a cross between a bagel and a croissant. Business Insider/Hayley PetersonThere's also a Nutella Crozel, which is a chocolate-filled croissant-pretzel hybrid.  Business Insider/Hayley PetersonA table in the middle of the store displayed new gluten-free cupcakes. On the left is the freezer holding the ice cream offerings. Business Insider/Hayley Peterson "We believe we have found a winning formula by combining the beloved Crumbs cupcake with an exciting new mix of products," Scott Fischer, COO of Fischer Enterprises, stated in a press release. It remains to be seen whether the changes will solve two of Crumbs' biggest problems: high real estate costs and cupcake "burnout." Crumbs' troubles began in mid-2011, when it was orchestrating a massive expansion, according to former Crumbs president and CEO Julian Geiger. Same-stores sales started declining as the cupcake market was rapidly growing more crowded, and analysts began warning of a possible cupcake bubble. The Wall Street Journal would later conclude that Crumbs' downfall was the result of mass "gourmet-cupcake burnout." At the new Crumbs, cupcakes are still a huge focus, as shown in the display case below.  Business Insider/Hayley PetersonCrumbs has also been plagued by high real estate costs, according to Darren Tristano, executive vice president at the food industry research firm Technomic. The company's shops averaged about 1,000 square feet, with one outlet near Chicago measuring 3,300 square feet, Tristano told Crain's New York Business reporter Aaron Elstein. Without the need for any baking equipment on site, it doesn't make much sense to have massive stores.  "That meant high rents and lots of extra space in places where shoppers seldom lingered," Elstein wrote. Crumbs is planning to reopen another 25 locations within the next 30 days in cities including Boston, Chicago, Los Angeles, Newark, Delaware, and Washington, D.C.  Business Insider/Hayley PetersonThat means many of the company's former employees will have a chance to get their jobs back.  Crumbs district manager Michelle Cavanaugh told Business Insider she was rehired as a result of the reopening. She said she was also able to hire back all of her former employees.  "We are thrilled to have Crumbs reopened and to still offer our same great products, plus a lot more," she said. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFile portrait picture shows CEO of Swedish SEB Bank Annika Falkengren in StockholmBy Mia Shanley, Gwladys Fouche and Shida Chayesteh STOCKHOLM/OSLO/COPENHAGEN (Reuters) - When it comes to equality at home and in the political arena, Nordic countries have long outperformed the rest of the world. But a look at their blue-chip companies reveals a gaping hole in the picture. Of nearly 100 publicly traded Nordic companies - a list of global names that ranges from Danish brewer Carlsberg and fashion retailer H&amp;M - only one, Swedish bank SEB, has a woman at its helm. It's the "Anders" effect, says Sweden's AllBright Foundation, whose annual report on gender equality in Sweden found that Anders was the most common name at management level. "Anders recruits Anders who recruits Anders," said Amanda Lundeteg, AllBright chief executive. "They think, hey Anders is a nice fella - we can golf, talk football and 'bada bastu' (swim and sauna). He reminds me of me." Such a situation may seem hard to grasp in a region that gave women the vote in the early 1900s, rolled out gender quotas in politics in the 1970s and legalized shared parental leave in order to see fathers out pushing prams as often as mothers. Some senior executives say it's partly down to the fact that Nordic industry is still skewed toward male-dominated sectors such as oil, mining and manufacturing, where women have long struggled to make headway. Others suggest it's because parental leave legislation does not insist that fathers take as much leave as mothers. But Adam Price, who created the hit political drama series Borgen, says it's simply because the same commitment to increase opportunities for women has not extended from other areas into the corporate world. "In politics, it's high on the agenda to have equal numbers of each sex. That is not the case when you go into the more closed corridors of business," said Price, whose series followed the character Birgitte Nyborg as she became Denmark's first female prime minister.  CHOICE OF JOB Denmark and Norway really do have female prime ministers today. On top of that, Nordic countries now boast the highest percentage of female parliamentarians in the world - 40 to 45 percent - and the most female ministers. Statistics for the world of business barely compare. The proportion of female CEOs at companies listed on the main Nordic bourses is one percent - below the already paltry EU average of three percent. In the United States, women make up five percent of Fortune 500 firms, Catalyst data shows. Even smaller Nordic firms with 50-500 employees underperform Europe, Grant Thornton research shows. Only 12 percent of their CEOs or managing directors are female, compared with a rate of 17 percent for the EU. Part of the reason women in Nordic business do not climb so high can be attributed to the same factors that keep them out of boardrooms in other parts of the world: a lack of targeted support and coaching to build their confidence and ability in targeting executive or boardroom level jobs. But that situation is exacerbated in Denmark, Sweden and Norway by the fact that women still prefer to make their careers in the public rather than the private sector, in what are still seen as traditionally female areas like healthcare and education, government data shows. Harald Norvik, a former Statoil CEO, said more women were moving now into a wider section of industries, something which needed to continue in order to widen the pool of potential top management candidates. "We do see many women in media, in banking and in insurance. We see fewer in heavy industries as oil and chemicals," said Norvik, who is now deputy chairman of seismic firm Petroleum Geo-Services and member of the board of ConocoPhillips. "There are few female CEOs mainly because few females have been a long time in line (management) positions," he said. Women who do go into the private sector often shorten their chances of making it to interviews for the top jobs by working in areas like human resources, communications and marketing, which do not typically yield CEO or board candidates, noted AllBright's Lundeteg.  UNSHARED CHILDCARE One thing that working women in Nordic countries do not have to worry about is generous paid parental leave: Sweden offers up to 480 days compared to Britain's 273 days and Spain's 112 days. However data suggests 'parental' leave is still largely 'maternal' leave - in 2013 in Sweden women used 75 percent of it, showing traditional expectations of gender roles are still kicking in post-childbirth. So long as that's the case, such generous legislation may be setting women back, says Jon Pareliussen, who works for the OECD. While women are at home, men are honing their skills and receiving important training and workplace development that gives them an advantage, he explained.     "Parental leave, when it gets too long, it's a problem," he said, noting that Britain, Spain and Italy have a greater percentage of working women with managerial responsibilities than Sweden. Stine Bosse, former CEO of Danish insurer TrygVesta - now benchmark Copenhagen 20 firm Tryg - says governments ought to force 50/50 shared parental leave. "Then, when they benchmark women against men at workplaces. they can't say 'She's 27, she has not had children yet, we'll go with the guy'," Bosse said.  QUOTA DEBATE Yet in areas where numbers have been enforced by law, women are still failing to get ahead. In Norway, the first country to insist that 40 percent of public limited company board members be female, those boards are still not appointing more female chief executives. Marit Hoel, head of the Center for Corporate Diversity in Oslo, says there is no evidence female chairs appoint female CEOs. Once on a board many women are careful not to push the matter too much, she pointed out. "They want to be seen as anyone else - not as someone who wants to push a single-issue political agenda," she said. Lena Wennberg became Sweden's first female CEO of a listed company - media group Sydsvenska Dagbladet AB - in 1987. She is against quotas and thinks change will filter through naturally when the men currently sitting on company boards are replaced by the next generation who have grown up with equality. "Those who sit on the boards are the men who made their careers 20 or 30 years ago. When they leave, they will be replaced by men who have changed their children's nappies." As an alternative to another generation of waiting, Annika Falkengren suggests that Nordic countries improve training and support for women in corporate careers. "I think one should put pressure on making sure more women are operational at very high levels because then they can easily be elected for boards," Falkengren, who runs Swedish bank SEB, told Reuters. Anita Krohn Traaseth, former head of Hewlett-Packard Norway, agrees. "What you need to do is to build the talent pool within an organization," said Traaseth - who is also the author of a best-selling business memoir called "Good Enough for the Bastards".  (Additional reporting by Johan Sennero and Helena Soderpalm in Stockholm; Editing by Sophie Walker) FREE AppDownload
Try this classic double-roll technique to keep your shirtsleeves tidy, prevent unraveling, and stay cool. Thanks to our friend Style Girlfriend, who turned us on to this neat trick. Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Statigram/LucyBuzzzJustin Jeffers is the editor of The Fine Young Gentleman.  For some, graduation is only a few weeks away. Whether that's a good thing or bad thing is unimportant — it's inevitable. For some guys that means it's time to dress up and work for the man, and if you do have to dress up you should definitely do it right. Here are 10 things you should look to have in your wardrobe if you're heading out into the real world. It may not be feasible to buy them all at once but in short order they can all be had. Along with each item is a list of 3-5 places to acquire it, or at least a place to start your search. Most of the places are not as well known as the places you would find walking up and down 5th Avenue. However, they all provide a better value for your money. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersPedestrians walk past a Tesco store in Bow, east LondonLONDON (Reuters) - The investigation into a 250 million pound ($402 million) profit overstatement at supermarket operator Tesco Plc has unearthed evidence of "inappropriate behavior" by staff, two national newspapers reported on Sunday. Tesco declined several requests for specific comment on the profit overstatement as detailed in the Sunday Times and the Sunday Telegraph on Sunday. The company said the first details about the investigation, which it commissioned after the accounting error was discovered, would be released as planned on Thursday, when it reports its half-year results. The Sunday Times and The Sunday Telegraph both reported that the investigation by accountants Deloitte  and law firm Freshfields had uncovered a pattern of "inappropriate behavior" by staff. The Sunday Telegraph cited a senior source close to the investigation, while the Sunday Times did not cite any sources. Deloitte declined to comment. The Sunday Times said the problems, which Reuters was unable to independently verify, were confined to the first half of this year and the retailer will not have to restate previous years' results. The Sunday Telegraph said the profit overstatement relates to the booking of supplier contributions that were conditional on hitting sales targets that it was not going to reach. Realizing that these goals would not be achieved, a "small group" of employees struck deals with suppliers to still make these payments by offering benefits in the next financial period. The benefits were kept secret and in the worst-case scenario involved the retailer paying back its suppliers, it added. The newspaper's source said the practices had been going on for more than a year on a smaller scale, but ramped up in the last six months as pressure mounted on sales. Tesco has so far suspended eight employees, including UK managing director Chris Bush, in connection with the accounting error. The retailer, once the darling of the sector during two decades of uninterrupted earnings growth, is expected to report first-half underlying profit of 850 million pounds, half of the 1.6 billion it made in the comparable period last year. It has suffered over the last year with its big out-of-town stores losing favor as shoppers buy more locally and online, while discounters Aldi [ALDIEI.UL] and Lidl [LIDUK.UL], along with upmarket chains Waitrose and Marks &amp; Spencer, squeeze the middle ground. (1 US dollar = 0.6214 British pound) (Editing by David Holmes) FREE AppDownload
ReutersPeople watch a daytime color-smoke explosive show over the Huangpu River at the Bund, in Shanghai.Chinese banks are seeing the writing on the wall in terms of the debt they've accumulated, and they are taking measures to protect themselves. The Bank of China is planning the biggest sale of shares ever — $6.5 billion to offshore investors, Bloomberg says. It's all in an effort to create a capital cushion.  China's banking system has piled up the most bad loans of any time since the financial crisis, and the banks are preparing for the moment those debts collapse. Especially in corporate and property sectors, things are looking dire. Let's tackle the corporate sector first. Last month, Morgan Stanley released a report saying China's corporates took on 5.4 times more leverage than ever before in the first half of 2014, bringing leverage up to levels unseen since 2006. And it hasn't stopped. Short-term lending to corporates rose to $26.8 billion in September from $11.2 billion in August. Long-term lending hit a four-month high of $45.9 billion in September, up from $39.3 billion in August. Societe GeneraleThis lending comes amid a big effort to cut costs among Chinese companies. They know a cash crunch is coming as the PBOC maintains that it will not take major measures to stimulate the economy. Meanwhile, profit margins have been thinning for some time, and China's producer-price index has deflated 6.7% in the past 36 months. To Societe Generale analyst Wei Yao, this just adds fuel to China's debt fire. "China’s debt problem lies with thecorporate sector, and so PPI deflation can cause more damage to debt dynamics than CPI deflation. The cure should be capacity consolidation and debt restructuring, rather thananother stimulus package targeted to boost investment demand," she wrote in a recent note. In terms of the property sector, that debt restructuring could be coming regardless of whether the government initiates it. Last week the industry was rocked when the $20 billion development company Agile Property Holdings canceled a $360 million share offering. Then the company's chairman, billionaire Chen Zhuolin, disappeared. Zhuolin has since been found and placed under house arrest. His family has pledged to support the company as it struggles with debt repayments. But that — coupled with the March collapse of Zhejiang Xingrun Real Estate Co. under $571 million in debt — has investors spooked. Regulations around financing home purchases have been loosened a bit, but not on a large scale, and analysts think the measures that have been taken may not be felt until early next year. So banks have plenty of reason to worry right now, and they aren't the only ones. Chinese foreign reserves declined more than ever before in the third quarter. It's a sign that investors are seeing slowing economic data — like September's awful industrial production flashback to 2008 — and moving their money elsewhere. FREE AppDownload
Volatility has picked up in recent weeks. The sell-off in the stock market has put the S&amp;P 500 basically flat for the year. Meanwhile, abundant supply thanks to the US shale boom and weakening demand due to slowing economic activity has caused oil prices to plummet. From Deutsche Bank's House View, here's the year-to-date performance of every major financial asset in the world. Deutsche Bank FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Strelka Institute for Media, Architecture and DesignI’m not an investing guru, but I love learning about investments and was crazy enough to take the CFA exams. Among my friends, several of whom don’t share my passion for finance, this makes me their go-to source for advice. The conversation usually goes as follows: Friend: "I want to start investing. Any stocks you recommend?" Me: "Whoa, back up. If you’ve got the time horizon and the ability and willingness to handle the risk, I don’t recommend individual stocks for you. I recommend buying the market." Friend: "Huh? What does that mean?" This article answers these questions with the most basic explanation possible. Many readers with a foundational knowledge of finance may find these steps rudimentary, but the underlying concepts are complex, and I’ve hyperlinked to many of my favorite articles. Flickr / Kate HiscockInvesting in the market means you have a whole basket of eggs — er, stocks. First, let’s define "the market." My friend mistakenly believed that buying a stock meant he was now invested in "the market" — but this is incorrect. Think of investing in the market as purchasing a whole basket of stocks all mixed together. For simplicity, "the market" usually means the S&amp;P 500 (the 500 largest company stocks you can buy). There are other definitions, but this is the simplest. Buying "the market" means you own the whole basket of stocks, and buying this basket has given a return of 9.55% per year on average. Pretty impressive. "OK" says my friend, "I’ll agree that I should buy the market. But how?" The best way is through an exchange-traded fund (ETF). An ETF is essentially a basket of stocks that you can buy just like any individual stock. Many also suggest buying index funds (which are very closely related) — but I recommend ETFs for several reasons — primarily because they are cheaper. There are hundreds of ETFs to choose from (and you can buy ETFs for bonds, foreign stocks, and other asset classes), but some of the most recommended ETFs for US stocks are VTI, VOO, VTV, and VOE (all four are Vanguard funds). Peter Macdiarmid/Getty ImagesLet your investments do the work for you. "OK. You’ve convinced me on sticking with ETFs … but there’s also this IPO coming, and I want some shares! Can’t I beat the market?" Although there may be times where buying individual stocks is wise, to "know-nothing" investors like my friends, I don’t recommend it. Think of it this way. There are two types of investors: passive and active. Passive investors buy the market — they don’t try to beat the market. In other words, they follow steps one and two. Active investors try to beat the market. Any time you choose an individual stock or most mutual funds, you are entering the "active" arena — an arena filled with professional money managers who spend their entire day studying the stocks you are just casually buying. The problem with trying to beat the market is that it is a zero-sum game. Meaning, if you are going to win, someone else must lose. Another concept foreign to my friend was that every time he buys a stock he is buying it from an actual person who isn’t trying to give my friend a deal. People who sell no longer view their stock as an investment worth holding, so they choose to sell it, and lucky for them, there are many "know-nothing" investors willing to buy it. Sometimes purchasing individual stocks pays off ("but I bought the Tesla IPO and I made a killing!") — but when it does, it’s luck. For the average "know-nothing" investor, individual stocks, especially IPOs, are a losing game. Turns out, the other "active" investors are pretty good. The worst example I’ve seen of this is a friend who was ecstatic to get Facebook IPO shares, panicked and sold the shares three weeks later when the stock dropped, and then missed the ensuing rally (which is still ongoing). When passive investors try to go active, they commonly buy high and sell low.These steps aren’t foolproof, but they are simple and straightforward — and surprisingly enough, following these three steps actually allows the average know-nothing, passive investor to outperform the average active investor. Yes, that’s correct — if you follow these steps, you actually beat those active professional investors, on average. This is one of the great investing paradoxes. In fact, a famous bet made between Warren Buffett and a New York hedge fund, Protégé Partners, epitomizes this point. Buffett essentially put his money on the passive investor to beat the active investor, and with four years remaining on a 10-year bet, he is in very good shape. I’ll add that the recommendations I’ve laid out here mirror what Buffett and Charlie Munger recommend for "know-nothing" investors who ask them the same question. As Charlie says: "Our standard prescription for the know-nothing investor with a long-term time horizon is a no-load index fund." (Very similar to the ETFs I describe in No. 2). Sounds like solid advice to me. FREE AppDownload
Chip Somodevilla/GettyFormer HP CEO Carly Fiorina received her master's in management from Sloan in 1989. The Sloan School of Management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology has powerful connections throughout the world, as evidenced by the 92% of the Class of 2013 with job offers within three months of graduation.  Sloan was founded in 1914 and is named for Alfred Pritchard Sloan, the MIT grad who drove General Motors to dominance in 23 years as a CEO. The school turns out private and public sector leaders like former United Nations Secretary General Kofi Annan, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, and Microsoft chairman John W. Thompson. Here are 25 of the most successful Sloan grads. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Benoit Tessier 'I’ve had enough,” says Charline Petit, the young co-owner of the bagel café on Place St-Aubin in central Toulouse. “I’ve been at this for three years, but I haven’t been able to pay myself since January. I can’t carry on like this, so I’m closing down. “Everything is taxed. You can’t move without being taxed. Even when you are not making any money, you are taxed. I had to lie about my income to rent an apartment. So then the tax authorities said I had not been declaring enough. I was taxed again. If I stopped working, I would get all kinds of benefits, but as a business person, I get nothing. You are better off unemployed.” To say “nothing” is possibly a bit of an exaggeration. In return for all those taxes, the French state funds a widely admired universal health service – better on many measures than our own National Health Service – and some of the most generous pension arrangements anywhere in the world. Nowhere else on the planet is the gap between pensioner and worker income quite as narrow as it is in France. Provided he’s worked enough years, a train driver can expect to retire on 80 per cent of salary at just 60 years of age. It’s the same for those who work for the government-controlled Electricité de France, or the vast payroll attached to the paraphernalia of the French state. But Ms Petit is not persuaded. “Those pensions,” she says, “they are not for non-salaried workers, the self-employed and small traders like me. They are for salaried people and public-sector workers. The politicians talk about the need for start-ups, that we are the future, but the whole system pushes us towards bankruptcy and the black economy. It’s hopeless.” Ms Petit may be at the end of her tether, but her complaint is shared by business people the length and breadth of the land. France, one leading economist once remarked, is communism that works. Even accepting that France’s social model did indeed once work – and the apartheid in state benefits between the regulated and unregulated sectors has always made the claim more than a little suspect – the question is: for how much longer? Generous public services and entitlements are only affordable if the economy prospers sufficiently to pay for them, and the French economy is most certainly not prospering. Growth has ground to a halt, unemployment is off the scale, particularly among the young, and oppressively high levels of taxation, in combination with restrictive labour laws, have undermined all prospect of meaningful business expansion and job creation. Worse, with intense pressure from Brussels for deficit reduction, the French tax authorities have been gouging the business sector for every last cent, further destroying the incentives for job and wealth creation. The officiousness – often verging on the outright vindictive – of the process, with every last transaction and payslip subject to the closest possible scrutiny, is driving many small enterprises, and even large corporates, to despair. Fines for slight lapses in compliance are automatic and often existential. Observers have been writing the French economy’s obituary for almost as many years as I’ve been in business journalism but somehow or other, it keeps trundling along. And, of course, there are many aspects of French economic life that both impress and defy the national caricature of decline – world-class infrastructure, technological innovation and levels of productivity among them. Make no mistake, despite the economically illiterate policies of François Hollande and many of his predecessors, France somehow continues to function – just about. REUTERS/Christian Hartmann French President Francois Hollande addresses a news conference at the Elysee Palace in Paris. The sclerosis in the economy finds its mirror image in the paralysis and backward-looking negativity of France’s political establishment. Many despair of the chances of change. Rather than accept the case for reform, France voted at the last presidential election to further pull up the drawbridge and retreat into the tried-and-failed socialism of the past. Despite the economically disastrous consequences of these policies, they are mistakes that the Miliband-led Labour Party would inevitably repeat, with its extravagant promises of French-style health care and a social safety net. To the extent that these are deliverable at all, Miliband has pledged to fund them by taxing wealth more, an approach that would threaten the same economic paralysis as afflicts France. Creaking at every joint, there is a sense in which France is finally reaching a tipping point. The system is self-evidently no longer affordable, or even, in its divisiveness between a bloated, self-interested state and a struggling private sector, remotely desirable. Attempts to sustain the social contract with ever higher levels of taxation have succeeded only in further reducing the economy’s capacity to pay. A “citizen’s conference” organised by the free-market think tank, the Institut Montaigne found appreciation of the need for, and appetite for, change to be better among ordinary voters than politicians themselves. To observe some of these stresses and strains, I’ve come to Toulouse, France’s fourth-largest city, set in the glorious Midi-Pyrénées in southwestern France. As home to Airbus, and the cluster of hi-tech aerospace companies that feed off its largesse, as well as one of France’s largest universities, there is a buzz and energy about the place that is sadly lacking in many French regional cities. Polling regularly finds it to be the city French people would most like to live in. REUTERS/Regis DuvignauA general view shows the city hall of Toulouse, February 24, 2014. But first, a little context. To sustain its social contract, France has some of the highest payroll taxes anywhere in the world, and indeed levels of taxation more generally. According to Medef, France’s equivalent of the CBI, the basic numbers are these. For every euro paid to the employee, the employer will pay on average 48 cents in payroll tax, easily the highest in Europe, or indeed anywhere in the OECD. The equivalent figure for the United States is 15.9 per cent, and for Germany 35 per cent. Indeed, as a percentage of income, the amount paid out by French business in social taxes is higher than the entire tax burden, including all income tax and other employee-paid insurance contributions, on labourers in the US. As part of a new “grand bargain” between business and workers launched this summer amid much fanfare, the government has committed to cut these taxes by €40bn over three years. However, even if delivered, it only narrows the competitiveness disadvantage with Germany by a third. Taking account of the income and social taxes paid in addition by the employee, the numbers look starker still. “For every 50 cents the employee gets,” says Annabelle Gausserand, co-owner with her husband, Nicolas, of Next Media Factory, a producer of specialised medical videos and communications tools, located on the Canal du Midi a little way out from the centre of Toulouse, “I have to pay the state one euro.” To demonstrate the point, she shows me a payslip that details a bewildering array of different charges. I count at least 12 before (for reasons of confidentiality) she pulls it away, including something called a “generalised social contribution” – a relatively recent addition to help deal with the deficit – and a mysteriously labelled “contribution to social autonomy and solidarity”. Other charges include pensions, health care, family allowance, workplace accidents, training and so on. She shrugs her shoulders in classically Gallic fashion: “I don’t know what they are all for. It’s just a time-wasting expense as far as I’m concerned. “For sure, if I didn’t have to pay so much to the state, I would employ more people, but it is a struggle as things stand. We did take on a full-time employee recently, someone who was long-term unemployed, and we asked whether there was any help with social taxes for a small enterprise like ours. They said, if you were a charity, there would be help, but because you are a profit-making business, there is none. This is typical of the attitude. We are treated with suspicion, as if we are guilty of something or trying to cheat them. The tax demands we get are close to extortion.” Why stay, I ask? “We’ve had offers to move,” she says, “from Switzerland, London and America, but this is where we live. We have to make do.” Many are not so loyal, though even on this front, the French state has been hot on the case, with punitive “exit taxes” on anyone who tries to leave. One businessman describes it as like a form of imprisonment. As I walk through the picturesque lanes of central Toulouse, I encounter a demonstration outside a public building. The protest is on behalf of actors, performers and entertainers who are seeing some of their entitlements threatened by a half-hearted attempt at benefit reform. It is easy to see why they would be upset. Establish a certain level of intermittent income as a registered artist and it will be matched in unemployment benefits should you fall short. Is this even an effective, let alone an affordable way of supporting the arts? Many would argue that it is just a gravy train. Small businesses can still thrive in France. On my tour around Toulouse, I encounter four promising young digital start-ups – SchoolMove, Popeline &amp; Macaron, Payname and Unitag, all of them making their own special contribution to the great commercial transformation that the new technologies are bringing about. Even the leviathan of the French state finds it difficult to stand in their way. REUTERS/Benoit Tessier At La Cantine Numérique, which offers cheap, communal office space to digital start-ups, the entrepreneurialism and enthusiasm of inhabitants is manifest. Yet all complain of the high social costs and, just as bad, restrictive labour laws, which make it costly to hire and fire. Most start-ups don’t survive past three years, when tax exemptions run out. Here’s one, very telling statistic. France and Britain are economies of roughly equal size and population, yet France has a third fewer SMEs. The growth companies of the future are increasingly hard to find. To survive at all, many SMEs substitute full-time employees with “auto-entrepreneurs”, a form of self-employment that allows the employer to avoid at least some of the social charges and pay the worker as if on a specific contract. The tax authorities regard it as a semi-illegal form of “disguised employment”, but reluctantly tolerate the practice in many instances, for fear of the further damage a crackdown would do to an already deeply impaired labour market. At Sogeclair, a relatively big aerospace engineer that employs around 600 in the Toulouse area and, among other things, produces the central wing box for the new Airbus A350, the chief executive Philippe Robardey doesn’t even particularly blame the deeply unpopular Mr Hollande. “It is a progressive problem of the French social model,” he says, “whatever the politics of the government, socialist or not. Sarkozy was just as bad. He promised free-market reform and to cut taxes, but he ended up raising them and still he managed to add to the national debt. “Our engineers here in France cost us more than anywhere else in Europe – Germany, UK and Spain – even though they are paid less. For years, it’s just been more cost for less money.” I venture that at least France has a world-beating health care system, which seems quite cleverly to combine public provision with semi-compulsory private insurance. “Really?” he says. “Is life expectancy significantly better in France than in the UK? The system is abused. If you told the French they could have free food, you’d soon have a nation of obese Frenchmen. It’s the same with health care. Because people pay so much tax for it, they make limitless use of it.” As far as medication is concerned, he’s certainly right. French citizens are required to make small co-payments to visit the doctor, but that doesn’t deter them. Prescriptions and treatments are effectively free or reimbursed, even for paracetamol. Statistically, the French pop more pills per head of population than anywhere else in the world. France’s gold-plated health care system has given birth to a nation of hypochondriacs. Homeopathy and spa holidays on the public purse, taxi fares to and from hospital, it’s all part of the service and regarded by French citizenry as a matter of right. Not for France the dramatic cuts in health care provision forced on much of the eurozone periphery. More use of less costly generics scarcely counts, and in any case, has failed to make a significant dent in the shortfall between payroll health insurance taxes and actual expenditure. To all intents and purposes, French health care is bust. The same is true of the pay-as-you-go pensions system, which accounts for roughly half of the payroll taxes charged to employers. To fulfil his election pledge to limit the retirement age to 62, Hollande has raised contributions from employers and employees even further and slightly reduced entitlements. But the system is still bankrupt on any realistic view of likely economic growth and demographics. The payroll taxes are simply not enough to fund the benefits. To survive and prosper in the modern world, France needs root-and-branch reform of its archaic labour laws, entitlements system and its payroll taxes. Yet it has a government intent only on protecting them. Sadly, a crisis even more serious than the present one may be needed before France summons up the collective will for meaningful change. For such a potentially dynamic and influential nation, it’s a tragedy to behold.   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Vivek PrakashAn IndiGo Airlines A320 aircraft is parked on the tarmac at Rajiv Gandhi International Airport in Hyderabad March 7, 2012.NEW DELHI/PARIS (Reuters) - Almost four years ago a handful of people gathered in Airbus sales chief John Leahy's spacious country house outside Toulouse and argued long into the evening over curry and cigars. Last weekend they met up again at a Parisian hotel for more haggling, with breaks taken at a nearby cafe where the informality of old business friendships mingled with hard-nosed negotiations typical of the aircraft industry. The sum total of money discussed over these meals? About $40 billion at catalogue prices, and the bill was for 430 jets, all sold to the same Indian airline -- IndiGo, the low-cost carrier which has grown to become the country's biggest airline in eight years of operating. Represented according to insiders by co-founder Rakesh Gangwal and President Aditya Ghosh, IndiGo has now made aircraft industry history twice in four years -- each time by placing record orders for Airbus planes, including last Wednesday's announcement that it will buy 250 A320neo jets. The largest order in India's aviation history is IndiGo's most aggressive bet yet that Indian air travel is on the cusp of a huge expansion, and that the model that made it the nation's only profitable carrier will keep working as competition intensifies. "IndiGo is showing us the level of confidence it has in its own sustainability, in the long-term growth of aviation and in the future performance of the Indian economy," said Harsh Vardhan, chairman at Delhi-based Starair Consulting. Airline industry executives are hoping India's weak economy will rebound under new Prime Minister Narendra Modi and that the government will press for cuts to jet fuel tax and build more airports, slashing costs and opening up new markets. Higher disposable incomes, an expanding middle class and rapid urbanization have made India one of the world's fastest-growing domestic aviation markets, where passenger numbers are expected to grow by more than 75 percent in the next six years to exceed 217 million. According to Airbus executive vice-president and the president of its India operations Kiran Rao, optimism about growth in Indian aircraft demand is rising. But few airlines have translated that optimism into new orders on the scale of IndiGo's since most are losing money. "People are too focused on India’s negatives. IndiGo is aware of the challenges and it is adept at steering itself around them. That is how it became India's largest carrier," said one source familiar with the airline's thinking. "There is, however, a great deal of optimism about the future within the airline and that comes right from the top." Ghosh told Reuters last week India was a "highly underpenetrated market" and that a lot of the new planes would be for growth rather than replacing older aircraft. REUTERS Despite more Indians flying, fierce competition and high costs have left airlines including SpiceJet, Jet Airways and state-run Air India losing cash fast. The sector will lose up to $1.4 billion more this financial year, according to consultancy CAPA. Privately held, IndiGo does not disclose its full accounts but is the only major Indian carrier which says it is profitable. It reported a sixfold rise in net profit to 7.87 billion rupees ($128 million) in the 2012-13 financial year, and has since expanded its market share to about 32 percent. Founded in 2006 by travel entrepreneur Rahul Bhatia and Gangwal, a former chief executive of U.S. Airways and an old hand in executing game-changing aircraft orders, IndiGo has relied almost entirely on the sale and leaseback model to fuel its growth. IndiGo buys a single line of planes in bulk at discounts, and then sells them to leasing companies around the time they are delivered, leasing the planes back and retiring the aircraft within six years to avoid depreciation and maintenance costs. This keeps capital costs low and its balance sheet light, and is a strategy some analysts say hands it up-front cash to meet operating costs and tips it into profitability as rivals succumb to losses. "IndiGo is also a good customer and in a good cash flow position, which means that there is little chance of default. In India IndiGo is probably the best customer for lessors," said one person familiar with the leasing negotiations. IndiGo denies that the sale and leaseback model is the reason it makes money, and instead points to an advertising budget which is less than 1 percent of revenues, the fast turnaround of its fleet and its high level of seat sales as a proportion of capacity compared with its rivals. The airline says it will also stick to the standard low-cost operator's strategy of flying a single type of narrow body plane within India and to a handful of overseas destinations. REUTERS/Vivek PrakasAn IndiGo Airlines A320 aircraft is parked on the tarmac at Bengaluru International Airport in Bangalore March 7, 2012.  IndiGo's ascent is not without its risks, however. An end to the era of cheap borrowing to finance its plane orders would raise its costs, and should India's fragile economic recovery wilt IndiGo would be left facing delivery of 250 Airbus planes from 2018 that it would struggle to fill. Increased competition in a notoriously cut-throat Indian market plagued by overcapacity could throw up the biggest hurdle to IndiGo's ambitions, analysts say. Once-profitable airlines like Jet, which went from market leader in the 1990s to today's sprawling international carrier, have turned loss-making in the last two years as fares fell faster than they could cut costs. Meanwhile Malaysia-based budget carrier AirAsia launched its first Indian flight in June, bringing in an airline which manages to operate with one of the lowest unit costs per kilometer flown in the industry. AirAsia India did not respond to requests for comment on IndiGo. "The biggest risk for IndiGo is how the competition behaves, whether AirAsia and others respond more aggressively now," said Starair's Vardhan. (1 US dollar = 61.6200 Indian rupees) (The story is refiled to fix spelling of additional reporter credit) (With additional reporting by Siva Govindasamy in Singapore; Editing by Greg Mahlich)   FREE AppDownload
APApple CEO Tim CookIt's Apple earnings time.  Apple reports earnings after the market closes on Monday, October 20.  We're going to be all over it, so tune in. These are the numbers analysts are looking for (revenue/EPS comes from Yahoo Finance, iPhone/iPad comes from Bloomberg): In the past month and a half, Apple has had two media events to reveal its newest product line up. For the most part, none of these things will factor into Apple's earnings for the quarter it's reporting. The only product that was available during the September quarter was the iPhone 6. And it was only available in limited supply for the last 10 days of the quarter.  AP Photo/Markus SchreiberiPhone 6 lineHowever, even with limited supply, Apple sold a lot of iPhones. It already announced it sold over 10 million iPhones during the first weekend the iPhone 6 was on the market. And then, it had another week to sell even more phones.  During Apple's iPad event last week, CEO Tim Cook said the iPhone 6 has been a monster seller. "These iPhones have become the fastest-selling iPhones in history. And the first 30 days we have set a new high-water mark for the most orders taken. And I don't mean by a little. By a lot, a whole lot."  So, we expect to hear more from Cook about how the iPhone 6 is selling during the earnings call. Analysts will probably want to know about iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus supply, which seems tight right now. They will also probably want to know which one is selling better. We don't expect a direct answer from Cook on either question. APWe also expect analysts to grill Cook on the iPad. For years, Cook said tablets would be bigger than the PC. That still seems likely, but the iPad has lost its mojo. It's facing another negative quarter, and Apple's new line up of iPads doesn't seem to do anything to reverse that trend. It will be interesting to hear Cook explain what he thinks is happening.  And finally, we'll listen to hear Cook's take on how Apple Pay can work as a business for Apple. Most reporting suggests that Apple will make very little money on Apple Pay. Which is fine. It can be a killer feature that sells more iPhones and iPads. But, we'd like to know if that's how Cook sees it, or if he has ideas for a bigger business built on Appple Pay down the road. FREE AppDownload
Flickr/PetraMillennials, the generation in today’s workforce born after 1980, experienced the tech bubble and burst of the 1990s, and entered early adulthood in the wake of the Great Recession. Plagued by massive student loan debt and fear of unemployment, Millennials are intensely conservative when it comes to investments. As savers go, they are a tough group to beat. But Millennials could use some advice when it comes to taking the next steps toward investing for the long term. Lesson 1: There is risk in not taking risk This cautious, risk-averse generation does many things right. Millennials live within their means better than other generations. They have witnessed firsthand the financial losses suffered by their parents, who saw the value of their investment portfolios plummet as a result of the financial downturn of 2008–2009. They watched as jobs were lost and homes went into foreclosure, and they recognized the danger of taking on more debt than they could easily afford to repay. Scarred, Millennials recognize the inherent danger in credit card purchases, and they are willing to live more modestly to protect their nest eggs. Many Millennials prefer to stash cash in bank savings accounts rather than investing in the stock market. When they do explore investment options, they gravitate toward fixed-income and money market funds. Given the horrors they have witnessed in the stock market, who could blame them? This mentality, though, may have dire consequences. Avoiding equities and saving cash in lower yielding, lower risk accounts, instead of taking a chance on higher risk/ return asset classes, is jeopardizing Millennials’ long-term financial security. Consider a reasonable level of investment risk, in multiple asset classes, to position yourself for greater potential wealth accumulation and a more secure financial future. Lesson 2: Start young and invest regularly The younger you are, the longer you have until you retire and need to start tapping into your retirement savings. Starting to save for retirement in early adulthood ensures a longer time horizon for investments to grow. Given the number of wage-earning years Millennials still have ahead of them, they are well-suited to tolerate the roller coaster — the highs and lows of the stock market. And because of their longer time horizon, Millennials can also take full advantage of dollar cost averaging, a historically successful investment strategy designed to avoid the pitfalls of erratic investing patterns. By automatically investing the same amount of money at a certain time interval (typically once a month), rather than trying to time the market, investors buy more shares when prices are low and fewer shares when prices are high. Keep in mind, this strategy may only work when adhered to for the long term. Consider investing early and aggressively to take advantage of the potential benefits of dollar cost averaging and to give your retirement savings a solid start. Lesson 3: Take advantage of retirement savings options Many financial professionals recommend contributing to an employer’s 401(k) plan at least the maximum amount that the employer will match. So if the company matches up to 5%, employees should consider contributing 5% each pay period. Not taking advantage of a company match is like turning down a raise. And remember, there is no harm in contributing more than what an employer will match. An investor interested in saving aggressively for retirement may also consider opening a Roth IRA early in his or her career, since to invest the maximum contribution to a Roth IRA an individual’s annual income must fall below certain thresholds. In 2014, a single taxpayer who earns $114,000 or less is eligible to make the full Roth IRA contribution of $5,500. (Visit irs.gov for more information.) Given Social Security’s uncertain future, you need to be in the driver’s seat to make your dreams of retirement a reality. Read other lessons for Millennials and much more in our award-winning investor newsletter, including features on economic trends, investment opportunities and planning for retirement.   Diversification, asset allocation and dollar cost averaging are all investment strategies. No investment strategy can assure a profit or protect against loss in declining markets FREE AppDownload
Win McNamee/Getty ImagesI have long warned that the euro crisis was going to return. But recently the concern I voiced in posts here was more concrete i.e. that the renewed recession fears in Europe would force a decoupling between the periphery and the core in the Eurozone. This seems to be occurring. This week the FT wrote that: Greece’s long-term borrowing costs breached 8 per cent on Thursday – the highest since early February – as investors fretted over the possibility that upcoming elections could derail the country’s chances of a clean exit from its bailout. The Greek 10-year bond yield rose 81 basis points by late morning to 8.68 per cent. Just a week ago the yield was 6.6 per cent… […] Portugal’s 10-year debt yield rose 15.2 basis points to 3.44 per cent, a two-month high. Italian 10-year borrowing costs were also at their highest since mid-August, up 17.9 bps to 2.58 per cent. The yield on Spain’s 10-year benchmark rose 18.5 bps to 2.26 per cent.  It is that last paragraph that worries me. Greece never fully recoupled and can legitimately be considered a separate case. The steep rise in yields, however, means a full fledged crisis in European sovereign debt is upon us. Moreover, Portugal, Spain and Italy’s yield rise is worrying because it could turn what is now just a rout of Greece sovereign debt into a full-scale assault on the periphery. Europe is not ready for another crisis. Italy is begging for stimulus of some kind and France is openly flouting the EC’s directives on debt. Meanwhile Merkel and her government are talking about meeting the growth shortfall in Germany with budget cuts and Finland wants to redouble budgetary restraint efforts to win back favour with the ratings agencies. So, on the core budgetary issues, despite the move to backloaded austerity, we are now at a point where what backloading means exactly has become an acutely problematic political, economic and market issue. I don’t know how this gets resolved. Further, I believe the ECB’s actions are circumscribed by this lack of agreement because the Germans will not accede to bond buying when there is this divergence on budgetary issues. We are headed for more turbulence in Europe I fear. More About: Europe, eurozone periphery, Greece, Italy, Markets, Portugal, sovereign debt crisis, Spain,WeeklyThe most in-depth research and analysis is on Credit Writedowns Pro.The rise in periphery bond yields is sovereign debt crisis, round 2 originally appeared on Credit Writedowns Links: RSS - Daily - Weekly - Twitter - Facebook - Contact FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Sebastien NogierByron WienDUBAI (Reuters) - The recent slump in U.S. stock prices, in which the S&amp;P 500 index has posted four straight weekly losses for the first time in more than three years, is unlikely to go on for much longer, one of America's best-known investment strategists said on Sunday. Byron Wien, veteran investor and vice chairman of Blackstone Advisory Partners, part of investment and advisory firm Blackstone Group LP, told reporters on the sidelines of a conference in Dubai it was unlikely the U.S. market would fall much further. "Nobody knows how long it (falling markets) lasts and it always goes farther than you think, but I do think it's a correction and not the beginning of a bear market," Wien said. A bear market is an extended phase during which shares slump some 20 percent from their peak levels. "Maybe it'll go a little bit further, but it's already gone down almost 10 percent, so I hope we're nearing the end of it," Wien added. The S&amp;P 500 was down more than 6 percent at the end of last week from a record high set in September, despite a rally on Friday aided by estimate-beating third-quarter earnings from blue chip stocks including General Electric. [MKTS/GLOB] In an earlier presentation, Wien noted many of the factors which would indicate a recession might be around the corner, including inflated inventory levels and stretched company valuations, were not currently present in the United States.   (Reporting by David French; Editing by David Holmes) FREE AppDownload
© AFP/File Shaun CurryThe family division of the High Court in London, where many couples seek divorceLondon (AFP) - Las Vegas may be the best place for marriage but London is known as the divorce capital of the world, boosted by a ruling Friday on a Malaysian beauty queen's bid for a big money split from her tycoon husband. Thousands of wealthy Chinese, Russians, Americans and Europeans, many of whom work in the City of London financial district or own property in Britain, now end their marriages before an English judge. Few are as rich as businessman Khoo Kay Peng, reputedly worth at least £400 million (500 million euros, $640 million) and Pauline Chai, tales of whose 1,000 pairs of shoes and £22,000 monthly budget for a Rolls Royce plus chauffeur has enthralled Britain's press. But their case has drawn fresh attention to a phenomenon which has made a handful of lawyers almost as rich as some of their clients. "England has become very attractive for wives, in particular because awards here are considerably higher than almost anywhere in the world," said Sandra Davis, head of the family law department at Mishcon de Reya. "By the same count, it's a jurisdiction that the wealth creator generally wants to avoid," added Davis, who represented Diana, princess of Wales in her divorce from Prince Charles and US model Jerry Hall in her split from Rolling Stones singer Mick Jagger. A judge at London's High Court ruled Friday that it could hear the divorce between Chai and Peng after his lawyers argued it should be heard in Malaysia instead. The former Miss Malaysia was in court for the ruling and hugged her family and lawyers in delight at the news. "I am pleased the judge recognised my connection with this great country," Chai said in a statement afterwards. "I am so pleased that I, my children and indeed my shoes have found a home here." Her legal team, led by the "Diva of Divorce" Ayesha Vardag, successfully argued that Chai had lived in England -- in a £30 million mansion outside London surrounded by 1,000 acres (405 hectares) of parkland featuring a menagerie of animals -- for long enough to satisfy the legal requirements. The case could set a new record for England's biggest divorce payout due to the length of the couple's marriage, which lasted over 40 years.  That is currently held by late Russian oligarch Boris Berezovsky, who reportedly paid up to £220 million to his ex-wife Galina Besharova in 2011.  REUTERS/Luke MacGregor - 'Short answer is money' - While no precise figures exist on how many divorces in London have an international element, lawyers say they are common. Davis said 75 percent of her clients in this field had an international link. So what is it about England which makes it such an attractive destination for divorce? "The short answer is money," said Elizabeth Hicks, a partner at law firm Irwin Mitchell. Following a landmark case in 2000, English courts start from the assumption that marital assets should be split 50/50, favouring the less wealthy spouse. This contrasts with many other countries and means awards in England are several times bigger than they would be elsewhere. Another factor is that pre-nuptial agreements, signed before marriage to protect the richer spouse's assets, are not legally binding in England. English judges also take into account a wider range of assets when calculating each spouse's wealth, which also appeals to the less wealthy partner. The super-rich are not the only foreigners to divorce in the English courts. While most cases are legitimate, it emerged last month that 179 Italian couples who had been trying to avoid lengthy procedures in their own country had divorces granted in England cancelled as they had never lived here.  Courts had been supplied with a fake English address in a scam organised by an Italian agency. Divorce lawyers may be happy with the extra fees that foreign splits bring them but some judges seem weary of the strain which such cases are putting on the English legal system. After reading out a three-hour judgement in Chai v Peng Friday, Judge David Bodey implored both sides "with all the strength I can muster" to reach an agreement as soon as possible. "There is enough in the kitty that they would be hard-pressed to spend it all in their lifetimes, even if they wanted to," he added, ruefully.   FREE AppDownload
YouTube Here's an amazing video from that time. Martin Zweig, the legendary Wall Street analyst who passed away in February 2013, appeared on Louis Rukeyser's PBS show "Wall Street Week" on Friday, October 16, 1987.  On the show, Zweig said he wasn't just looking for a typical prolonged sell off.  "I haven't been looking for a bear market, per se," Zweig said. "I've been really, in my own mind, looking for a crash." The next trading day was what became known as "Black Monday," the day the Dow fell more than 22% in its single worst day ever.  "I didn't want to talk about it publicly," Zweig added, "because it's like shouting 'fire!' in a crowded theater and there are other ways to play it." Amid recent market volatility, some have compared the current environment to what was seen ahead of the 1987 crash, as the economy doesn't appear headed for a imminent recession, but the bull market seems to be a bit tired. And in 1987, in spite of the sharp sell off, the economy did avoid recession and the market finished the year flat.  The whole video from Rukeyser's show that week is available on YouTube in three parts, and the whole thing is worth watching, not just for a glimpse of what people were saying on the cusp of a historic event, but how so much discussion surrounding the stock market seems to hardly ever change. Rukeyser opened the show with a monologue that talked about concerns in the Persian Gulf, dysfunction in Washington, D.C., a recent round of layoffs at several Wall Street firms, and computerized trading weighing on the market. Sound familiar? Here's the first part of Rukeyser's show below, with Zweig's comments starting at around the 6:40 mark.  A truly legendary call.    FREE AppDownload
© AFP/File Alex OglePro-democracy protesters gather behind barricades next to luxury stores Tiffany and Louis Vuitton in Hong Kong's Central district on September 29, 2014Paris (AFP) - Protests in Hong Kong, an economic slowdown and anti-corruption drive in China and a coup in Thailand: Asia is no longer a market of constant growth for luxury goods firms.  LVMH, world number-one in the sector and owner of brands like Louis Vuitton, Givenchy and Dior, saw its sales drop by three percent in Asia, excluding Japan, in the third-quarter of 2014, a far cry from the halcyon days of 2010-2012. In every other market, LVMH's sales increased, according to figures published last week. Even activity in sluggish Europe has done better over the past nine months, the group said. The crisis in Hong Kong "will have an impact" on the quarterly results, group finance director Jean-Jacques Guiony said. "We have already noted some negative impact on activity in duty free shops in the third-quarter." Arnaud Cadart, an analyst at CM-CIC securities, said there was a "rare coming-together of economic, monetary and geopolitical factors that have had a negative impact on the Asian market". Slowing economic growth in China, along with a clampdown on lavish spending by government officials, is crippling luxury goods firms that are used to viewing the growing pool of wealthy and brand-conscious consumers in the world's number two economy as a cash cow. Consultants Bain and Company have forecast that the luxury goods market in China will contract for the first time ever this year. This will have a clear impact on companies like Switzerland's Richemont, Britain's Burberry and Mulberry and Italy's Prada, and many luxury brands are reining in their previously rapid expansion. Bain said the slowdown in China, combined with other factors, would put the brakes on the global luxury-goods sector, which the consultancy now sees growing at two percent in 2014 -- what it called "the new normal". Cadart noted that the Chinese market has carried the sector for several years and "couldn't keep up such a pace in the long-term". While rich Chinese clients are still seen as the big spenders, these days the big spending tends to be on holiday rather than at home.  Still, that's not to say all luxury firms are putting the skids on the breakneck pace of expansion in China.  Hermes cut the ribbon on a glittering new store in Shanghai in September, and the shoe still also fits for Jimmy Choo, whose initial public offering (IPO) launched in London this week was aimed at raising cash to tap into demand in China and Japan.    - Cognac, wine, watches -   Luxury goods firms have also complained that a drive to stamp out lavish and ostentatious spending has dried up sales of cognac and expensive wines as well as items such as watches, traditionally given as presents. LVMH said revenues in its wines and spirits division dipped 7 percent in the first nine months of 2014 from a year earlier. French spirit-maker Remy Cointreau this week said sales in the first half of the year had slumped 15.5 percent, dragged lower by weaker demand for its flagship Remy Martin cognac in China. Luxury goods sectors in other countries in the region have also taken a hit from Chinese tourists staying away for a variety of reasons, including a military-backed coup in Thailand in May. Singapore has seen luxury goods clients cut by a fifth, according to Bain. But the biggest dent in the sector is likely to come from the ongoing protests in Hong Kong, a global centre for luxury watches and the high-end goods market in general. Normally, the industry can count on around 10 to 12 percent of its turnover coming from Hong Kong, and as much as 20 percent for watchmakers such as Richemont and Swatch. In addition to LVMH's warning about the effect of the protests on profits, watchmakers are already feeling the pain. Retail sales have declined by up to half in the past few weeks, as protesters clog up Hong Kong's streets and clash with police in the biggest democracy rallies since the former British colony was handed back to the Chinese in 1997. The drop in sales in Asia is also having an impact in companies' home markets. Tag Heuer watches, part of the LVMH group, has decided to make 46 people in Switzerland redundant and Cartier will put people on shorter working hours from November. The only bright spot? Japan, where the market in luxury goods is actually growing, even though Japanese clients have lost some purchasing power due to a weaker yen.   FREE AppDownload
© AFP Fabrice CoffriniA display showing a collection by Russian artist Alexander Petlura of ties for the Summer Olympics in Moscow is photographed during the exhibition "The Tie. men fashion power" on October 8, 2014 at the Swiss National Museum in ZurichZurich (AFP) - From a symbol of power to a fashion statement, ties in all their guises are on show at a new exhibition dedicated to the neckwear at the Swiss National Museum. They speak volumes about their wearer, whether sported by British regimental veterans and university alumni, or US presidential hopefuls -- red for Republicans, blue for Democrats. The subtle tie-codes at various points in history are set out step by step for visitors to the Zurich-based museum. "The concept of the exhibition is to show the different facets and contexts of the necktie and also that it had different meanings depending on the era," co-curator Joya Indermuehle told AFP. Ties of various kinds were long worn as a symbol of social and political status. They emerged in the 17th century when French aristocrats adopted the cravat, originally a simple scarf worn by soldiers from Croatia. The name cravat was a nod to "Hrvat", to the Croatian word for a Croat. Among the treasures on display in Zurich is a long lace cravat worn by Christian VII, king of Denmark and Norway, at his coronation in 1767. From more recent history is a tie offered to US president Jimmy Carter in 1979 by American artist Jeffrey Vallance. Vallance's "Cultural Ties" project involved sending neckties to a host of heads of state and asked them to give him one in return. Alongside the somewhat psychedelic tie is a letter Vallance received from the White House. "Although we can appreciate your interest, unfortunately, the President receives so many requests for souvenirs and other momentos that it is not possible for him to comply with all of them. He believes it would be unfair to make an exception in this case when he has not do so for others. I hope you will understand," it says. Beyond monarchs and politicians, the exhibition also spotlights ties in the art world, including those of Port Art icon Andy Warhol, or from the punk movement.   - Emancipation symbol for women -   Others include one sported by German actress Marlene Dietrich, in a sign of the rebellious androgeny of the post-World War I Berlin cabaret scene. A section of the exhibition is dedicated to women's ties. "We wanted to show that there were contexts probably not so much known,  like for example the women neckties in the 17th century," said Indermuehle. While aristocratic women had adopted neckwear, ties became a mark of the female challenge to male dominance from the 19th century onwards. "It became a statement later on when George Sand or Colette started to use it as a symbol of emancipation," said Indermuehle. Despite that, neckties have remained a largely male preserve. Zurich is a fitting location for the exhibition, given that quality cloth for ties fuelled the prosperity of a city now best-known for its banks. Rival manufacturing hubs included Como in Italy and Krefeld in Germany. In tribute to the Zurich manufacturers of the past, the exhibition includes a section of cloth production, with a huge image of a design used on the weavers' "Jacquard" looms. Britain was Zurich's main export market in the 19th century, joined by the United States and Japan in the 20th century. The sector was vulnerable to shifting economic winds, noted historian Alexis Schwarzenbach, who is researching the Zurich silk industry. "The devaluation of the dollar in the 1970s practically wiped out the American market," he said. Swiss exporters also faced rising competition from Asian producers, just as male dress codes became more relaxed, and the sector slowly withered. With ties no longer deemed essential in many circles, they have become a way to personalise men's style. "Tie-wearing has lost its obligatory side and returned via fashion," said Isabelle Lartigue, head of menswear at Parisian trend-spotting company Peclers. On the catwalks, ties are this year facing tough competition from flowing scarfs, though retro-style knitted ties with square tips are back in, she said. In Italian fashion, the current trend is to deploy ties in "almost theatrical style", said Lartigue, while American designers are opting for ties that match the colour of the shirts. The exhibition runs until January 18.     FREE AppDownload
© AFP/File Jonathan NackstrandFor years, the notion of on-demand, anywhere television has been slowly disrupting the traditional pay TV industry. Now it seems that streaming video has hit a watershed momentWashington (AFP) - For years, the notion of on-demand, anywhere television has been slowly disrupting the traditional pay TV industry. Now it seems that streaming video has hit a watershed moment. In the past week, HBO announced it would launch a standalone streaming service in 2015 to deliver hit shows like "Game of Thrones" and "Girls," directly to viewers without a cable or satellite subscription. That was followed quickly by CBS, which said it was offering a Web-only subscription service, bypassing the cable, for its shows like "NCIS," as well as its archive including "Star Trek" and "Twin Peaks." Spanish-language broadcaster Univision is also set to make its shows available through a website and app, without cable, sources said. Over the past few years, online services like Netflix, Hulu and Amazon have been gaining viewers at the expense of cable and satellite services. But the entry of content powerhouses like HBO (a unit of Time Warner) and CBS change the landscape because they bring new and popular shows that had not been available on streaming before, said James McQuivey at Forrester Research. "It doesn't necessarily cannibalize the other streaming experiences but it creates a new focus for the viewer because it has the hit series, and that drives a lot of interest," McQuivey told AFP.   - Moving to new model -   Jeffrey McCall, professor of communication at DePauw University, said these developments show the TV industry is increasingly moving toward the on-demand, online model. "We're not there yet, but these announcements show we are headed in that direction," McCall said. "For CBS and HBO, there's no need to deal with cable companies. When they put their content over the Internet, they can reach consumers on their own terms." This means an acceleration in "cord cutters" in the cable industry and could force the providers to break up the expensive "bundles" consumers are forced to buy when they want popular channels like HBO or sports channel ESPN, said McCall. Roger Kay at Endpoint Technologies said the new trend is "scaring the carriers" such as Comcast, the dominant cable provider, which fears the hugely profitable cable system will turn into "dumb pipes." "There's going to be a recomposition of video content distribution... separating the pipe from the content," Kay said. According to the research firm SNL Kagan, US cable and other traditional pay TV firms lost some two million customers in 2013. Roughly 84 percent of US households subscribe to pay TV, according to Leichtman Research, but that has been slowly falling since 2010.  Leichtman surveys shows 22 percent of those who move don't get a pay TV subscription at their new residence, with 11 percent of those without a cable or satellite package saying they can manage with digital services like Netflix. McCall said that with increasing services online, "people can find enough stuff and not pay for 100 channels they don't want." This trend has been gradually increasing, and McCall expects a "major shift" within 10 to 15 years. "Consumers can get out of these huge cable packages and create and their own online a la carte programming," he said. But McCall said big conglomerates like Comcast -- which owns NBC and which is seeking to merge with Time Warner Cable -- can survive by offering both content and distribution. Morningstar analyst Neil Macker said the new HBO and CBS services are not necessarily aimed at cutting profitable ties with cable. "They're not trying to accelerate cord cutting," because of the large number who are still on the cable bundle, said Macker. "I don't think it's really a competitor to Netflix, I think it's an additional channel."  Still, he noted that others like HBO rival Showtime would likely follow the trend, aiming at some 10 million US home with broadband Internet but not pay TV.   - Sports is wild card -   McQuivey said one thing holding back the move to online TV is the availability of live sports such as NFL football and NBA basketball. "As long as people can't get sports any other way, they will keep the existing pay TV model," he said. "The pay TV model will decline a little more sharply but it is not going to disappear." At some point in the coming years, said McQuivey, consumers will have a greater ability to break free from expensive cable bundles" and select the channels and content they want. "It doesn't necessarily mean consumers pay less. They might pay more, but they would like it if they could have access to everything on HBO and everything HBO ever aired," he said. Over time, the industry will adapt to give consumers what they want.  "They want to watch the best program on the device they want when they want to watch," said McQuivey. And because cable firms are losing their grip, it gives program producers more options. "I think we're going to see a rise in independent production without having distribution secured," he said. "I think we'll see an explosion of great programming."     FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe corporate logo for financial firm Morgan Stanley is pictured on a building in San DiegoNEW YORK (Reuters) - Morgan Stanley &lt;ms.n&gt;, which has spent three years throwing out bad apples from its fixed income trading portfolio, now wants to put the freed up money into businesses that bear healthier fruit. It is reinvesting capital previously held against unprofitable trades into areas like municipal bonds, credit and securitization, where it sees opportunities for boosting profit, senior executives at the bank said on Friday. This step represents a turning point in the bank's efforts to shrink to the point where it can make money again in bond trading. New regulations put in place after the financial crisis have made the business more expensive for big banks, forcing them, for example, to use shareholder money to finance their trades instead of cheaper debt. As trading becomes more expensive, many banks have to be choosier about which trades to do. "We've been very focused on 'what is the return on equity in the business?'" Chief Financial Officer Ruth Porat said in an interview on Friday, referring to a measure of profitability. The bank's risk-weighted fixed-income trading assets have shrunk to $190 billion, close to its target of $180 billion by the end of next year, giving Morgan Stanley more room to reinvest in the business again, the executives said. At this stage, Morgan Stanley's bond trading business sits in a gray zone - not as big as JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co's &lt;jpm.n&gt;, nor as profitable as Goldman Sachs Group Inc's &lt;gs.n&gt;. The bank's executives have sometimes been inconsistent in their statements about where the business is headed. In 2010 and 2011, management said the bank was committed to growing revenue in a range of fixed-income trading businesses, and pledged to increase market share by 2 percentage points. One focus was growing trading in interest-rate driven products like Treasuries, a business that generally requires a big balance sheet to be successful. The bank quietly scrapped that plan as regulations evolved, and after the person it had hired from Goldman Sachs to expand that business was unsuccessful and left. Morgan Stanley executives later told analysts that the fixed-income trading unit just needed to reach an average quarterly revenue of $1.75 billion to be profitable. But more recently, executives have said that goal is no longer relevant because they are just focused on improving returns. In the third quarter, Morgan Stanley produced $1 billion in adjusted fixed-income trading revenue, beating analysts' average forecast of $885 million. Analysts and investors said the results show that size does not matter for fixed-income trading overall, but does in areas that a bank excels in. "You don't have to be the biggest in FICC; you have to be the biggest in what you do in FICC," said KBW analyst Brian Kleinhanzl, referring to an acronym commonly used for the Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities business. "That goes all the way back to corporate strategy 101. Let's figure out what we do well and do that and stop trying to be all things to everybody."   (Reporting by Lauren Tara LaCapra; Editing by Dan Wilchins and Richard Chang) FREE AppDownload
ReutersA worker operates at a construction site on the 68th storey of a building in Shenyang, Liaoning province, October 16, 2014. Until a dramatic selloff, exuberant markets had raced well ahead of the economies that underpin them, partly because the U.S. Federal Reserve and other central banks flooded the financial system with new money. With the Fed set to turn off its money taps at the end of this month, investors appear to have woken up to poor growth prospects in much of the world, something International Monetary Fund chief Christine Lagarde has termed a "new mediocre". It's not all doom and gloom. The outlook for the world’s largest economy has not suddenly taken a turn for the worse. And a 25 percent plunge in the price of oil since June should put more money in the pockets of companies and households. "U.S. momentum has softened a little but we expect growth to remain solidly above trend. At the same time, the drop in oil prices is as much a reflection of supply as demand factors," economists at Goldman Sachs said in a note. "For consumers in the largest economies, it should provide meaningful relief, offsetting the pressure from tighter financial conditions and weaker global demand." Fears are centered on recession and even deflation in the euro zone and the extent of China's slowdown. When the world financial crisis raged from 2007-2009, China's resilience was one of the major silver linings. It may not be this time. Chinese third-quarter gross domestic product numbers due on Tuesday are forecast to show growth at its weakest pace in more than five years, at 7.2 percent year-on-year. Beijing is expected to roll out a stream of stimulus measures in coming months, though most economists believe it will hold off on an interest rate cut unless conditions deteriorate sharply. A poor run of economic data suggests Germany will flirt with recession in the third quarter, having contracted by 0.2 percent in the second. Flash October purchasing managers indices for the United States, euro zone, Germany and France -- due on Thursday -- will give a first glimpse of the state of their economies heading into the last quarter of the year. Britain won't escape the impact of the euro zone's malaise but is in much healthier shape. Third-quarter GDP data on Friday are forecast to show growth of 0.7 percent in July to September. The International Monetary Fund, United States, G20 and European Central Bank have pressured Berlin to increase public spending to lift its own economy and help its peers in the currency area. But the German government, the only one in the euro zone with the resources to spend more and the heft for it to make a difference, is committed to a balanced budget with no net new borrowing in 2015. The argument will doubtless be reprised at an EU leaders summit in Brussels late next week.  France and Italy are pressing for more leeway on debt targets to buy time to push through much-needed structural economic reforms but are likely to have their 2015 budgets rejected by Brussels, leading to a scramble to broker a face-saving deal. The German and French economy ministers have asked experts in Berlin and Paris to come up with reform recommendations for their countries in an apparent attempt to avert a full-blown clash over economic policy. The hope is that a renewed French and Italian commitment to economic reforms will persuade Germany to loosen its purse strings and the ECB to act more forcefully, even crossing its Rubicon and printing money. The ECB has denied there is any "grand bargain" in the offing and officials admit that whatever transpires -- the aim is that a deal will be done in time for a December summit -- may fall short of what is required. "We now see sovereign QE as unavoidable next year," said Ruben Segura-Cayuela, economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, referring to quantitative easing, or asset purchases with new money. "In a central scenario of a weak economic recovery, where the fiscal stance does not ease meaningfully, and an inflation profile that surprises the ECB on the downside, we believe the central bank will be forced to do more than it has done so far." The euro zone's most pressing problem is Greece, where borrowing costs have rocketed way above the level that would allow Athens to quit the bailout program hated by its people and return to financing itself on the markets. Prime Minister Antonis Samaras insists Athens will press ahead with plans to wean itself off EU and IMF aid.   (Editing by Catherine Evans) This article originally appeared at Reuters.  Copyright 2014. Follow Reuters on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Vivek PrakashAn IndiGo Airlines A320 aircraft is parked on the tarmac at Rajiv Gandhi International Airport in Hyderabad March 7, 2012.NEW DELHI/PARIS (Reuters) - Almost four years ago a handful of people gathered in Airbus sales chief John Leahy's spacious country house outside Toulouse and argued long into the evening over curry and cigars. Last weekend they met up again at a Parisian hotel for more haggling, with breaks taken at a nearby cafe where the informality of old business friendships mingled with hard-nosed negotiations typical of the aircraft industry. The sum total of money discussed over these meals? About $40 billion at catalogue prices, and the bill was for 430 jets, all sold to the same Indian airline -- IndiGo, the low-cost carrier which has grown to become the country's biggest airline in eight years of operating. Represented according to insiders by co-founder Rakesh Gangwal and President Aditya Ghosh, IndiGo has now made aircraft industry history twice in four years -- each time by placing record orders for Airbus planes, including last Wednesday's announcement that it will buy 250 A320neo jets. The largest order in India's aviation history is IndiGo's most aggressive bet yet that Indian air travel is on the cusp of a huge expansion, and that the model that made it the nation's only profitable carrier will keep working as competition intensifies. "IndiGo is showing us the level of confidence it has in its own sustainability, in the long-term growth of aviation and in the future performance of the Indian economy," said Harsh Vardhan, chairman at Delhi-based Starair Consulting. Airline industry executives are hoping India's weak economy will rebound under new Prime Minister Narendra Modi and that the government will press for cuts to jet fuel tax and build more airports, slashing costs and opening up new markets. Higher disposable incomes, an expanding middle class and rapid urbanization have made India one of the world's fastest-growing domestic aviation markets, where passenger numbers are expected to grow by more than 75 percent in the next six years to exceed 217 million. According to Airbus executive vice-president and the president of its India operations Kiran Rao, optimism about growth in Indian aircraft demand is rising. But few airlines have translated that optimism into new orders on the scale of IndiGo's since most are losing money. "People are too focused on India’s negatives. IndiGo is aware of the challenges and it is adept at steering itself around them. That is how it became India's largest carrier," said one source familiar with the airline's thinking. "There is, however, a great deal of optimism about the future within the airline and that comes right from the top." Ghosh told Reuters last week India was a "highly underpenetrated market" and that a lot of the new planes would be for growth rather than replacing older aircraft.   STAYING IN PROFIT Despite more Indians flying, fierce competition and high costs have left airlines including SpiceJet, Jet Airways and state-run Air India losing cash fast. The sector will lose up to $1.4 billion more this financial year, according to consultancy CAPA. Privately held, IndiGo does not disclose its full accounts but is the only major Indian carrier which says it is profitable. It reported a sixfold rise in net profit to 7.87 billion rupees ($128 million) in the 2012-13 financial year, and has since expanded its market share to about 32 percent. Founded in 2006 by travel entrepreneur Rahul Bhatia and Gangwal, a former chief executive of U.S. Airways and an old hand in executing game-changing aircraft orders, IndiGo has relied almost entirely on the sale and leaseback model to fuel its growth. IndiGo buys a single line of planes in bulk at discounts, and then sells them to leasing companies around the time they are delivered, leasing the planes back and retiring the aircraft within six years to avoid depreciation and maintenance costs. This keeps capital costs low and its balance sheet light, and is a strategy some analysts say hands it up-front cash to meet operating costs and tips it into profitability as rivals succumb to losses. "IndiGo is also a good customer and in a good cashflow position, which means that there is little chance of default. In India IndiGo is probably the best customer for lessors," said one person familiar with the leasing negotiations. IndiGo denies that the sale and leaseback model is the reason it makes money, and instead points to an advertising budget which is less than 1 percent of revenues, the fast turnaround of its fleet and its high level of seat sales as a proportion of capacity compared with its rivals. The airline says it will also stick to the standard low-cost operator's strategy of flying a single type of narrowbody plane within India and to a handful of overseas destinations.   COMPETITION AND AMBITION IndiGo's ascent is not without its risks, however. An end to the era of cheap borrowing to finance its plane orders would raise its costs, and should India's fragile economic recovery wilt IndiGo would be left facing delivery of 250 Airbus planes from 2018 that it would struggle to fill. Increased competition in a notoriously cut-throat Indian market plagued by overcapacity could throw up the biggest hurdle to IndiGo's ambitions, analysts say. Once-profitable airlines like Jet, which went from market leader in the 1990s to today's sprawling international carrier, have turned loss-making in the last two years as fares fell faster than they could cut costs. Meanwhile Malaysia-based budget carrier AirAsia launched its first Indian flight in June, bringing in an airline which manages to operate with one of the lowest unit costs per kilometer flown in the industry. AirAsia India did not respond to requests for comment on IndiGo. "The biggest risk for IndiGo is how the competition behaves, whether AirAsia and others respond more aggressively now," said Starair's Vardhan. (1 US dollar = 61.6200 Indian rupees)   (With additional reporting by Sinda Govindasamy in Singapore; Editing by Greg Mahlich) FREE AppDownload
